PUNE/MUMBAI: The state government on Wednesday informed the Bombay high court that it had decided to hand over the probe into a land scam allegation against senior   leader Eknath Khadse to the anti-corruption bureau (ACB).

 The court said such a probe could be done only after an FIR was registered against Khadse and directed that the action be taken. The court was hearing a plea by Pune resident  , who sought a CBI probe into Khadse’s allegedly illegal MIDC land deal at Bhosari in Pune.
 
 When the matter was called out, special government counsel   requested the court to record his statement that the case was being transferred to the ACB.
 
 Last month, Pradhan had said that the Bund Garden police had found no evidence in a preliminary inquiry and the investigating officer had submitted an affidavit in court. On Wednesday he informed the high court that the decision to transfer the probe to the ACB was taken “to maintain transparency in administration since allegations of criminal misconduct under the Prevention of Corruption Act had been made”. The case would be withdrawn from the Bund Garden police station, said Pradhan.
 
 On Tuesday, the police informed Gavande through a letter that no case was made out for an FIR against Khadse. On Wednesday, Gavande’s lawyer Sudhir Patwardhan pointed out that the police had issued the letter.
 
 The court asked the state to withdraw the letter or the affidavit of the police. Pradhan said that once an affidavit was filed, it cannot be withdrawn, but added that in view of the state’s decision on Tuesday, the police letter to Gavande stood withdrawn.
 
 Gavande had alleged that Khadse misused his post as the state revenue minister and bought a plot in Pune in the name of his kin for at least 10 times less than the market price. Khadse eventually resigned.
 
 A division bench of Justice R V More and Justice Shalini Phansalkar-Joshi had earlier directed the government to file a report detailing steps it had taken for the probe and had passed several orders extending the time for the probe.
 
 On May 30 last year, Gavande had filed a complaint application with the Bund Garden police alleging that then revenue minister Khadse had misused his authority for purchasing land in Bhosari “acquired and owned” by MIDC in the name of his wife Mandakini and son-in-law Chaudhari.
 
 “We have carried out detail inquiry of the application by Gavande and found that no cognizable offence could be registered in this regard,” Madan Bahaddarpure, PI of Bund Garden police station, said on Wednesday.
 
 “We shall hand over the papers related to the case to anti-corruption bureau,” he added.
 
