It was a celebration time for stamp collectors, philatelists, dealers and exhibitors recently. The occasion was the 150th meeting of The   Coimbatore for which members dropped in from different parts of the country, including Salem, Tuticorin, Bengaluru and Kerala. “It’s a special occasion for us,” says  , one of the senior philatelists in the group. “ I have been collecting stamps since 1975 and my specialty includes sheet collection and thematic collections. Today, there is a lot of distraction for young minds and they are constantly under stress. Taking up a hobby like stamp collection can not only act as a stress-buster but can also provide them a lot of learning. And, when you start specializing in a particular subject, your knowledge improves immeasurably. That’s what we are trying to propagate through the meeting,” he says.

 Philatelist M Srinivasan tells us that he has been collecting stamps for a long time and that he has an exhaustive collection of Mahatma Gandhi stamps. “These stamps were issued by 120 countries and I specialize in the theme.” A Naseer Ahamed, on the other hand, says he developed an interest in stamps right from his childhood days. “I regularly started attended their meetings and kept myself abreast of the latest releases in stamps and post cards. It’s been over two decades now.”
 
 The Philatelists of Coimbatore have been active from 2003 and meet every second Sunday of the month.  , secretary of the group, tells us, “Our biggest challenge right now is to take stamp collection to students. At a time, when they are glued to videogames and computers, getting them into stamp collection is quite a task. A majority of the members that come to us are in their early 30s. On an average, we get 8-10 new members every day. Anyone can become a member of the club as long as they have a passion for stamps. We do not force philately on family and friends. If they do develop interest in it, we guide them.” Take for instance, Yamuna Priyadarshini, who picked up the hobby from her father. “I have been helping my father with some of the stamps and that’s how I got interested in it. I accompany him for meetings and I plan to collect few stamps on my own.”
 
 These days many have considered philately as an investment option. But, Jai Parameswaran says that they do not want to encourage people on those lines. “We don’t want philately to become like stock markets. We want people who are really passionate about stamp collection to be here. But, if they have an exquisite collection and consider it as an investment organically, we have absolutely no qualms about it.” He adds, “Stamp collection broadens ones knowledge and mind. We discuss the finer aspects of philately during our meetings. The advice we give to newcomers is to begin with country collection and gradually go forward. It’s a natural progression- from a  , to philatelist to becoming an exhibitor or dealer.”
 
 Sathyanarayanan adds that support from the family is essential while pursing the hobby. “You tend to invest a certain amount of money on the hobby and you also need to set aside some time for it. And, for this, it’s essential that your family supports you.” Members were seen poring over the exquisite collection of stamps that were on display at the event and rare stamps were discussed.
 
  
 
