LUDHIANA: The   police arrested a 31-year-old man for sexually assaulting his 14-year-old step-daughter on Thursday. 

 It is alleged that the man had been assaulting her for months. When she had started living with her grandparents, the accused even went there to bring her back. However, when the girl refused to do so, the man allegedly thrashed her.
 
 A case under Section 8 of Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences Act and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC has been registered against the accused.
 
 The student of class VIII, in her complaint to police, claimed that her parents had got divorced a few months ago after which her mother married another man. However, the step-father used to keep a bad eye on her, she claimed. The accused used to molest her in the absence of her mother. She had complained to her mother about it, but her mother kept mum about it, she further alleged.
 
 A few days ago, the teenager left home and started living with her grandparents in Ambala.
 
 The girl alleged that the accused went to the house of grandfather and forcibly tried to bring her back to Ludhiana. When she resisted and denied to come with him, the accused thrashed her. When her grandmother intervened, the accused assaulted her too and fled, the girl claimed.
 
 She made a complaint in the women cell in Ambala. The women cell, Ambala had written to Ludhiana police to register a case.
 
 ASI Jaswinder Singh, investigating officer, said, “The police registered a case immediately after receiving the complaint. On Thursday, police arrested the accused. 
 
 BOX: Previous cases
 
 July 3 | A 7-year-old girl was sexually harassed by a man. The girl was playing outside her house when the accused luring her with an ice-cream
 
 June 29 | A dismissed teacher was booked for sexually harassing a 17-year-old   survivor
 
 June 1 | An unidentified man booked for raping a 10-year-old girl who had gone to buy an ice-cream for herself
 
 June 2 | A 10-year-old girl was kidnapped and raped by her neighbour
 
 June 2 | A 4-year-old girl was allegedly molested by her neighbourer
 
 May 28 | A 47-year-old man was arrested for allegedly molesting 4-5 teenage girls of the same locality 
 
 April 29 | A father attempted to rape his 13-year-old daughter at his house.
 
