THANJAVUR: A year-and-a-half on after its inauguration, the hostel building at   at   remains shut despite many eligible takers. The college administration cites ‘poor response’ from the students and say that there are not many takers for the facility.

 Constructed at a cost of Rs80 lakh after getting funds from the   (UGC), the hostel facility was inaugurated by the former Chief Minister   in June 2015. However, the facility never saw light of the day affecting many deserving students coming from far off places. 
 
 While many of the students in the college, with a total strength of 3,200 students, come from rural parts of neighbouring districts, they struggle to even manage meagre fee and are also forced to spend on private accommodation.
 
 Academicians say that many of the girl students from the adjoining districts would not have had access to higher education if not for the college at Orathanadu. Apart from being a government arts and science college, there are five departments offering PhD and MPhil courses. 
 
 Except for the backward class and Scheduled caste hostels near the college which can accommodate roughly 200 students, the rest of the student, majority being outsiders, are forced to opt for private accommodation. 
 
 Nisha (name changed), a second year UG student, decided to share space with her classmates in Orathanadu itself as it took her five long hours to travel every day to reach college from Aranthangi in Pudukkottai district. However, she feels that travel is much better than a staying at Orathanadu town instead of sharing a 15 sqft tiny room with one toilet with nine roomates. 
 
 Asked on how they manage, she said that five of them are from the second shift who go to college only in the afternoon. “If not for some good friends, I would have left the college long back,” says Nisha, adding that cost is also a factor as less the number of inmates sharing a room, more would be the expense. 
 
 “It was only a few months ago when three of students in the college attempted suicide by consuming poison in the college. Sharing the same house near the college, these girls decided to end their lives after being humiliated by house owner suspecting them of theft,” said Brinda (name changed), another student from the college. 
 
 On the other hand, the college administration claims that it is the students who are actually not willing to take up the hostel facility. “Poor response from the students has been the main reason for being able to open the hostel,” said principal (in-charge)  . 
 
 “Unlike the government hostels, this hostel was proposed to be run on a sharing basis based on the hostel fee collected from the students. As the majority of students are wards of poor agriculture labourers, they are sceptical of meeting the fees which may run over Rs4,000,” said Manoharan. 
 
 Rejecting claims by the college administration, a senior faculty from the college said that many of the students have come forward to avail the hostel facility after the college administration called for application last year. But nothing materialised after the applications were submitted.
 
 Managing the hostel is considered an additional burden by the administration as they have to arrange for wardens and have to ensure functioning of the mess and other basic amenities, said the teacher. 
 
