BERHAMPUR: In a country where dynasty very often decides the   and   in the  , can Ganjam be far behind. It is evident as kith and kin of some present and former legislators and politicians have jumped into the fray for the forthcoming panchayat elections scheduled to start from February 13. 

 While Jitendra Kumar Arukh, younger brother of the forest minister Bikram Keshari Arukh, is contesting as a samiti member from Baunsalundi panchayat in Bhanjanagar block, his sister Suprabha Nayak is in the fray as samiti member from B Karadabadi panchayat in Buguda block. 
 
 Lopamundra Arukh, one of the relatives of the minister, will be declared elected unopposed as samiti member from Jilundi panchayat in Bhanjanagar block.
 
 Similarly Manoranjan Dyansamantara and his wife Meena Dyanasamantara, son and daughter-in-law of former assembly speaker and senior   leader Chintamnati Dyansamantara, are in the fray as samiti members from Samantiapur and Samantiapalli panchayats in Patrapur block respectively. 
 
 Pradeep Kumar Nayak, son of former   (erstwhile Kodala and now Polasara) Kanhu Charana Nayak, is in fray as sarapanch candidate from Mathura panchayat in Polasara block. Pradeep, a practising lawyer, has entered into politics for the first time. "I want to serve poor people and make my panchayat a model one. So I preferred to contest panchayat election," he said. 
 
 Ranjit Kumar Sethi, son of former MLA (erstwhile Jagannath Prasad) Damburudhar Sethi, is contesting as a samiti member from Baragaon panchayat in Jagannath Prasad block this time. 
 
 Ranjit, a former student leader and district youth Congress president, was elected as samiti member from the same panchayat in 2007 elections. 
 
 Similarly N Bhanubati Reddy, wife of senior CPI leader and former MLA (Chhatrapur) N Narayan Reddy, is a party candidate for zilla parishad member from zone 20 (Chhatrapur block). "I want to solve problems of the people," said Bhanubati a postgraduate and a law degree holder. The Congress has extended support to her, said Narayan.
 
 
