NEW DELHI: The Indian cricket board is set to switch from the franchisee license fee system to a revenue sharing model from next year onwards, a move that is expected to boost its earnings significantly.

 So far, all the franchisees had been paying   an annual license fee, which was pegged at 10% of their winning bid for the franchise. So, if   won the Mumbai franchise by bidding about $111.9 million, it was required to pay BCCI about $11.9 million each year for 10 years.
 
 From now, the teams will have to shell out 20 percent of the earnings from their central revenue stream and local sponsorship, as per an agreement signed between the BCCI and   teams. The local revenue would include in stadia rights and sale of match tickets.
 
 “If an IPL team makes Rs 200 crore from central sponsorship and another Rs 60 crore from the local revenue stream, the board would stand to gain Rs 52 crore,” a source explained.
 
 Interestingly, the IPL media rights are also up for grabs, and are expected to go for several multiples of what they fetched 10 years ago. Sources said that BCCI would dole out 50 percent of the total IPL media rights as central revenue to the teams, instead of 60 percent, which was the earlier arrangement.
 
 This is also expected to translate into a windfall of hundreds of crore for BCCI. Also, while the franchise fee contracts were earlier estimated at a dollar rate of Rs 40, the weakening of the rupee over 10 years will mean that BCCI will make much more money. This will be due to a new exchange rate and also because of the decision that all contracts will be signed in Indian rupees henceforth.
 
 “It's a win-win situation for the BCCI. If the franchisees' gross earnings go up, the board will gain too.
 
 This is the agreement which was signed 10 seasons ago and there is nothing that the teams could do. We have to share the revenue with the board as the BCCI too will give each team more than 6% from the media rights revenue (50 percent divided over the eight teams),” a team official said, while adding that BCCI should ideally have given 8 percent to each team.
 
 It was also revealed that BCCI will put in place a mechanism to ensure that the teams don't fudge their local sponsorship income from the board. “The board will check the audited account of the franchisee to determine the income from local sponsorship and gate receipt,” a source added.
 
