Visakhapatnam: An assessment by the social work department of Andhra University in 11 government schools in Gajuwaka and Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) areas has found that school enrolment and attendance improved and drop out rates decreased after the implementation of   Abhiyan and construction of toilets. However, maintenance of the   is poor.

 VSP had constructed toilets in 33 government schools in and around the plant under the Swachh Vidyalaya programme. “We carried out an assessment study in 11 schools where toilets have been constructed by public sector units (PSUs). We found positive changes such as improvement in attendance by 5%, drop out rates have come down by 7% and enrolment has also slightly increased. The education of girl children has also got a boost and parents are asking if there are separate toilets for girls before enrolling their daughters,” said Prof ABSV Ranga Rao from the AU department of social studies.
 
 However, it was found that maintenance of the toilets is not satisfactory. Prof Rao said, “The toilets are constructed under CSR activity but annual maintenance charges are not included. There are no sanitation workers to clean the toilets. Materials such as liquid handwash or soap and toilet cleaners are also missing. Further, we observed overlapping of projects which reflects lack of coordination among the PSUs. At times, the same school is sponsored by two-three PSUs and is getting five-six toilets.”
 
 Sarva Siksha Abhiyan guidelines state that there should be one toilet unit comprising of one lavatory and three urinals per 40 girl students and one toilet unit per 80 boy students. “But sometimes, primary schools have more toilets than high schools. There is also a need to provide sanitary napkins and disposal machines in toilets used by girls,” said V Kamala, a research scholar associated with the assessment.
 
 Under such scenario, the assessment team recommended the formation of a coordination committee with the district collector as chairman to look after all CSR related activities by PSUs so that overlapping of projects are avoided.
 
 
