BENGALURU: If all goes well, the city may take its first steps towards having a   on the lines of Mumbai in early 2018. 

 On Thursday, Union minister of statistics and programme implementation D V Sadananda Gowda said four   trains will be operated as suburban/local trains by December 2017.
 
 However, Darpan Jain, commissioner of the directorate for urban land transport (DULT), said the new coaches will be available with the state government and Bengaluru division of South Western Railways (SWR) only by March 2018. 
 
 Gowda met Bengaluru in-charge minister K J George and officials from SWR, DULT and   on Thursday to discuss the hurdles in implementing the project.
 
 Recently, railway minister Suresh Prabhu had spoken of 'technical difficulties' in executing the SPV (special purpose vehicle) to implement the suburban rail project, much to the consternation of suburban rail activists.
 
  But on Thursday, Gowda agreed to support the state and speed up coordination between the railway minister and state government. "Everybody in Karnataka and Bengaluru wants suburban rail to start functioning as early as possible. We are here to accelerate the project. We will finalize three of the proposals within a month. Formation of the SPV is one of the three, where the Centre will pay 20%, state 20% and avail loans for the rest. But the worry is who will replay the loans - the Centre or state? That is what it all boils down to." 
 
 The state granted Rs 347 crore for replacing 30 DEMU trains with new MEMU ones, which is expected to be tendered shortly, and the estimated delivery is March 2018. "However, the SWR will float global tenders and ensure procurement happens on time. The new trains will have additional capacity of ferrying 30,000 more commuters," said Jain.
 
  A proposal of building a suburban rail link between Yeshwantpur to   via Yelahanka was discussed and the state government offered to fund the feasibility test and report. 
 
  The SWR plans to expand   railway station by three platforms in the first phase of making it a world-class station by December 2018, and will add four more platforms in the second phase. Also, SWR said that it has given many new suburban services in past six months: New services between Bengaluru and Ramanagra, Bengaluru-Whitefield and Bengaluru-Kuppam among other services. 
 
