NAGPUR: On Sunday, many followers of Christianity gathered at the SFS Cathedral for the service dedicated to Palm Sunday. The day marks the beginning of the holy Christian week, a time of penance, abstinence and prayers, before it finally culminates into Easter. Followers prayed with palm leaves in hand, which are recognized as a symbol of peace and victory.

 “Palm Sunday starts after 40 days of prayers and fasting. It marks the entry of Jesus into Jerusalem. He knew he would suffer at the hands of many people. He came riding on a donkey, and on seeing him, the people started cutting branches of palm trees to lay for his welcome,” says Jerry D’Souza, a follower.
 
 On Thursday, Jesus had supper with the disciples. It is said that he took an ordinary piece of bread and said it is symbolic to his body. “Jesus said that day, ‘You’re being purified from your sins,’ and on this day a catholic receives pardon after confessing his or her sins to the consecrated priest. Only then you are allowed to take part in the rituals,” D’Souza added.
 
 There are nine Catholic churches in the city and the most prominent mass takes place at SFS Cathedral. “During the week, processions will be held from different parts of the city to the church with palm trees,” said Nelson Francis, who volunteers for the public relations service.   services will be held in churches on the occasion of Holy Thursday, Good Friday, Easter Vigil and Easter day, the timings for which vary from church to church.
 
 Jesus was crucified on Friday in Calvary, and most Christians fast on this day. “It is known as Good Friday because it was for the good of the world,” says Sunny Nichols, in-charge of the All Saints Cathedral choir. The choir has organized a musical programme on April 15 at 6.30pm. “It will consist 12 songs and 6 bible readings, out of which ten are new and two are from last year, so we don’t totally forget our tradition either. The songs will be in the traditional four part harmony — Soprano, Alto, tenor and bass,” adds Nichols.
 
 A feast is held on Sunday, to mark the resurrection of Jesus for 40 days. “I will be fasting on Wednesday and Friday, and attending the service every day. One fasts not just in relation to food, but also in terms of not hurting anyone. There are sacrifices made individually in the form of penance,” says Marie D’Souza, former teacher.
 
