PATNA:   (PU) has announced a detailed programme of admission to different undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) courses for the next academic session beginning in July. The university is likely to complete all its exams of the current session by the end of May and publish the results by the end of June. The centralized evaluation of answerbooks will begin soon after the examinations begin so that there is no delay in publication of results.

 Examination controller   on Monday said the teachers of all colleges and PG departments had been requested to cooperate with the authorities for conducting fair exams. “If they are assigned invigilation duty in the morning shift, they will take up evaluation work in the afternoon or vice versa. No teacher will be sanctioned any leave during the period of examination except under extraordinary circumstances,” he added.
 
 So far as PU’s admission calendar is concerned, the online sale of application forms for admission to UG and PG courses will start on April 3. The last day for online sale and submission of forms is May 2. While admission to UG and self-financing courses (both at UG and PG levels) will be made through entrance tests to be held on different dates in May and June, the admission to regular PG courses will be done on the basis of marks obtained by students in graduation.
 
 The common entrance test for admission to the BCom honours course at Vanijya Mahavidyalaya,   and   will be held on May 9, while that for BA honours course on May 13. The common entrance test for BSc honours in different colleges will be held on May 16. The entrance test for admission to BEd and LLB will be on May 20 and May 29 respectively.
 
 The last date for admission to all the courses is June 20. Induction meet for all the courses will be held on July 3 and the classes of newly admitted students will begin on July 5.
 
 For the first time, a single-window system will be adopted for   this year through Allahabad Bank and the agency hired by the bank will develop a user-friendly software with mobile compatibility. All the PU colleges and PG departments will update their websites and upload the admission prospectus on them.
 
 
