CHARMINAR: Shajee in zindagi ki mushkilon mey dum hee kitna hai Zara thhehro, abhi mushkil kusha ka naam leta hoon Attributed to Prince Moazzam Jah 'Shajee', the couplet seeks to threaten the trials of life by invoking the name of  , who the poet describes as one who drives away all difficulty. This is a sentiment shared by lakhs of Muslims cutting across sects and schools of thought and people of other faiths from across the city.

 The month of Rajab marks the birth anniversary of  , the cousin of Prophet Muhammad and one of the 'Rightly Guided Caliphs of Islam'. The   and, in particular, the Koh-e-Moula Ali come alive as thousands take to the streets for the Jashn-e-Moulood-e-Kaba.
 
 It was late on Wednesday night, keeping with the tradition, that a naqqara, beating a drum atop a camel went about announcing the arrival of the month of Rajab. “Maah-e-Rajab aagaya!“ he exclaimed.
 
 “We believe that Hazrat Imam Ali was born in the Kaba (the black stone in the Sacred Mosque in Mecca.This signifies his stature,“ says Mir Abbas Ali Moosvi, who is the mutawalli, or manager, of Badshahi Ashoorkhana, a heritage structure and perhaps one of the oldest ashoorkhanas in the city.
 
 While the birth anniversary is on the 13th of Rajab, which corresponds to April 11, preparations for the celebrations have already begun. To mark the joyous occasion, qaseedas are recited in praise of Moula Ali. The lyrical prowess coupled with devotion resonates in the Shia neighbourhoods of the Old City and Maula Ali.“Kyun girta na sambhlega tera naam hi aisa hai Taqdeer badal dega, tera naam hii aisa hai,“ one such couplet -which describes Hazrat Imam Ali as one who can change destiny — echoes in areas such as Noor Khan Bazaar, Mandi Mir Alam and Dabeerpura. Other eulogies follow suit.
 
 “This is a time when people, irrespective of faith, join in celebrations. Rajab witnesses people from both the Shia and Sunni sects as well as Hindus coming together to participate. This is seen at the Koh-e-Maula Ali and the several ashoorkhanas spread across not just the city, but also the state,“ says Moosvi.
 
 Preparations are in full swing for the processions which will see thousands of participants. For instance, at least five big processions are expected in Old City alone. These include sehra and sandal processions on the 13th of Rajab at Panjeshah, Bargah-e-Hazrat Abbas in Dewan Deodhi and Bibi Ka Alawa. Several others are organised on 16th of Rajab at the Badshahi Ashoorkhana and the ashoorkhana at Qutbiguda.
 
 Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen legislator Syed Altaf Hyder Rizvi says that for the convenience of those tens of thousands visiting the  , LED lights have been installed. Also, a ramp has also been constructed till halfway up the hill. “Space for parking for several cars and an approach road has also been laid.We intended to finish the work before the 13th of Rajab,“ he said.
 
