PUNE: Every registered voter in the city may not receive the slip bearing details of the polling booth he or she is supposed to visit to cast the vote before polling day on February 21.

 With just seven days left, the civic administration has an uphill task to dispatch the slips among 26.53 lakh registered  .
 
 The delay has been attributed to the election office which is not ready with the booth-wise voters’ lists. They were supposed to be ready last week but will be out by Tuesday. Officials said they can prepare the voters’ slips only after the polling booth designated for every voter is finalized. 
 
 The administration will have to distribute at least three lakh slips every day starting from Tuesday to meet the target before polling day. Officials said on Monday they were still printing voters’ slips which is expected to get over by Tuesday after which the staff will begin distribution. 
 
 Block level officers deputed across the city will take up the responsibility to distribute slips along with   Municipal Corporation’s health department staff. The election commission has insisted that the civic body distribute the slips before polling day. 
 
 Citizens have not had a good experience with voters’ slips which they said they receive from political parties and not from the administration.
 
 “A similar drive was taken up by the administration during the 2014 Lok Sabha and assembly   but voters claimed they had not received the slips. It appears that the situation is not very different this time as well. The administration is aware of the election dates so why are jobs like distribution of voters slips and voter identity cards taken up at the last minute?” Bhavani Peth resident Vijay Shah said.
 
 Amey Kale from Karve Road, who is associated with a political party, said the election commission should give importance to all initiatives that will encourage voting. Distribution of slips is one such effort wherein authorities are able to establish direct communication with voters and provide them the incentive to vote. 
 
