Patiala: With the Supreme Court giving a four-month relaxation on the National Green Tribunal (NGT) order banning axing of trees in Punjab for widening highways, the Punjab Urban Planning and Development Authority (PUDA) is looking to take benefit of the apex court directions to cut 1,295 trees at three locations here. These sites are being promoted as major commercial and residential properties.

 PUDA has floated a tender to auction the trees at Rajpura Colony near bus stand, old office of the animal husbandry department on the Jail road and the old PWD (public health) office near the Fountain chowk, which has the status of a heritage building. The Punjab and Haryana high court had earlier ordered a status quo on the building banning all alterations on the land. 
 
 A total of 671 trees, including sheesham, babool, mulberry, eucalyptus, silk cotton tree, teak and baikan, the reserved price of which has been fixed at Rs 16,60,183, are being auctioned at the Rajpura Colony. PUDA wants to sell 475 trees at the old office of animal husbandry department at a reversed price of Rs 1,949,170 while sheesham, babool, mulberry, eucalyptus, silk cotton tree and baikan trees are being sold for Rs 7,42,766 at the old PWD building. The auction has been fixed for Tuesday. 
 
 Patiala lawyer Saurabh Kapoor, who was instrumental in getting a stay ordered by the HC on any alterations of the old PWD building, said PUDA was trying to exploit the conditional lifting of the stay by the SC on the NGT orders to earn revenue for the state government. “I have already written to chief minister Amarinder Singh and PUDA chief administrator, bringing to the fore the facts that it would be violation of the relaxation ordered by the SC and also the HC orders in context with the old PWD building,” Kapoor said.
 
 He further said that, “The NGT had relaxed norms for state highways projects and not for commercial or residential properties being promoted by PUDA.” Kapoor said as per the NGT orders the state was restrained from cutting down any trees for any project in the entire state without specific permission of the tribunal. He said it was surprising to note that the HC stay on any alteration at the old PWD building was being violated.
 
 
