He is considered the enfant terrible of the   world, and true to the description,   is now coming out with a Carnatic song that is in  . The song, titled Chennai Poromboke Paadal, seeks to create awareness on the importance of poromboke areas, which are being usurped in the name of development, and will be launched by writer Perumal Murugan today at a special event. 

 The project is a collaboration between Krishna, journalist and social activist Nityanand Jayaraman, director   (of Kodaikanal Won't video fame) and songwriter  . Talking about how it came about,   says, 'For many years, I have been seeing that what we call as 'development' has been taking place at the expense of certain kinds of people and spaces. For an urban city, we decided that buildings and IT industry were more important than water bodies. In ancient Tamil, one of the land use classifications is poromboke, which meant a shared-use commons. But today, poromboke has become a dirty word ' a cuss word. How did land that belonged to all of us become so worthless that we are using it to dump garbage? By doing this, the economies that were supported by poromboke ' the economies of the marginalised (like the fisherfolk, farmers, potters, basket weavers) ' are hit. In cities like Chennai, the people who are living in, and utilise poromboke land, are now being considered worthless. The problem has become a cultural problem, and so it needed cultural intervention if you want to try and reclaim the word poromboke.'
 
 Nityanand wrote a 10,000-word piece on this issue and gave this to Kebar, a songwriter from the Tamil rock band, Kurangan, who's been organising concerts under the title, Justice Rocks. He turned the piece into a 10-sentences or something song. 'What struck me the most was how we prioritise what we (the educated and middle-class) need right now, without thinking about history and the consequences. I didn't know the history of the word and the idea of reclaiming it was very interesting,' says Kebar.
 
 To do that, he wanted the song to be very colloquial ' 'the Tamil that I would speak with my friends while hanging out in a tea kadai' ' as it had to be relatable to everybody. Nityanand, who had been following Krishna's experimentations, decided to bring the singer on board as well. 'One of the things that he has been talking about ' why is Carnatic music only in Sanskrit or chaste Tamil or chaste Telugu, and why is it talking about only Rama, and Krishna and Radha, when it could be talking about anything ' caught my attention. And this music largely belonged to the problem creating sector, an upper class, elite audience who cannot be reached through gaana song. I felt that this medium could take these thoughts to this group of people. It also introduces a different flavour to the music,' he explains.
 
 For Krishna, who has been trying to engage in cultural and socio-political discourses for some time, this presented a rare opportunity. He says, 'I have been asking 'Why can't we talk about other things through Carnatic music, and not just about the Gods'. But what did not strike me for a long time was that it's not just about the subject, but also the kind of language that is used for the subject.'
 
 All these discourses, he adds, finally boil down to the one basic idea that something being important and the other being not so important; something being purer and pristine and the other being dirty. 'When we say poromboke, we look down upon it. But the moment we say it as commons, we respect it more. Our mind has adjusted to think this way, and produces different imagery for what essentially means the same thing. So, to me, this project was fascinating,' he says.
 
 But there still remained the question of aesthetic. Krishna elaborates, 'Every music has its own kind of movements. The language and its syllables have to move with the movements. Even in Tamil, certain movements can only accommodate certain syllables. So, I asked myself, will it work if Anandabhairavi is rendered in Chennai Tamil? To my surprise, it works perfectly. There are no issues. So, from a purely musical sense as well as from a political standpoint, it works. It is we who think it won't.'
 
 He decided that he should get another musician to tune the song, as he felt this project should have another participation coming from someone in the Carnatic world. He brought in violinist RK Shriramkumar for this. 'He and I are the best of buddies but we are very different. He has no association with the political side of this project. He is one of the best Sanskrit scholars in the field of Carnatic music today. He can quote from mythology, the Upanishads and the puranas just like that. But he was immediately OK with doing such a song,' he recalls.
 
 So, they sat one morning, discussed what could be done and the tune was ready in one hour! 'It's very easy to say that Carnatic music should have different subjects and be in different dialects. It's only when you do it that you realise if it works or not. The greatest thing the project has gifted me is that it has shown me such an experiment is possible and has opened incredible doors for me and for so many others. Now, people from various communities can write songs for Carnatic music in the dialect they know. Even the music becomes accessible for people who do not come into Carnatic music because of the language. Kambhoji sung in Chennai Tamil will not feel as distant to them as Kambhoji sung in chaste Tamil,' he says.
 
 He reveals that the song is a ragamalika. 'It has what could be called 'pure' Carnatic ragas in it. Somebody described it as 'satirical philosophy', and I have to admit that it is the perfect description of it,' he says.
 
 The team has also shot a video of the song, and Rathindran, who had collaborated with Nityanand on the Kodaikanal Won't video, says that he chose a location that is going to be quite a stark contrast to the pristine ones in which Krishna shot for the musical One. He says, 'Kodaikanal Won't showed that change is possible when you express it in the right way. Since we are talking about an environmental issue, we had to be careful in terms of the making and production values.'
 
 Krishna signs off saying that what he has done doesn't regard what's already there in Carnatic music. He says, 'What's there is very beautiful. I am going to be singing Thyagaraja keerthanas all my life. I'm never going to say that it's not important. But the point is that Thyagaraja can co-exist with poromboke. That is what we want with the society as well.'
 
 
