CHANDIGARH: A week after he was denied entry, the   on Wednes day offered free air ticket to retired   inspector general  .

 He was denied entry on May 19 at Vancouver airport on charges that he represented a “government that engages in human rights violation, genocide“.
 
 The controversy has assumed significance as it comes in the backdrop of the recent visit by Canada's defence minister Harjit Sajjan, who was denied a one-on-one meeting with Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh. Following this, three unidentified men, purportedly from Canada, had issued video threats to Amarinder and Ludhiana Lok Sabha  , warning that they will be “taught a lesson“ for dubbing Sajjan and other Canadian Sikh ministers proKhalistanis.
 
 Dhillon was headed for Canada on May 19 after returning from a vacation in Europe with his wife and wanted to visit Vancouver for his niece's wedding. “I was disturbed over the past one week after the Canada incident. I think they have realised that security forces across the world are the same. I think those who contribute to national service should not have been disgraced like this. But I want to be extremely thankful to Canada for extending courtesy to offer me fresh visa and air tickets,“ said Dhillon.
 
 Dhillon has also expressed regret that Amarinder had to cancel his scheduled sevenday trip to Canada in 2016 after he was threatened with a case related to torture in a court in Toronto. Ithink it's the same case with our chief minister. I offered the Canada consulate the suggestion that the Canada government should try and fix their ties with Amarinder as Punjabi NRIs contribute a lot to their economy . Amarinder is a dignified man of stature and principles. And like me, he's an ex-soldier,“ said Dhillon.
 
 Even though Sajjan and his Sikh cabinet colleagues were dubbed pro-Khalistanis by Amarinder, the Canadian defence minister was accorded a proper reception as per protocol during his April 19-24 visit.
 
 Dhillon, who comes from Ludhiana, was on Wednesday given a two-year multiple-entry visa.
 
 He had met Canada deputy high commissioner Jess Dutton and counsellor immigration Oscar Ja cob. The Canadian immigration authorities had denied him entry with a note saying that “he had served a government that engages in terrorism, systematic or gross human rights violations, or genocide“.
 
 He was declared inadmissible under a sub-section of Canada's Immigration and Refugee Protection Act last week.
 
 
 
 
 Security cover to Ludhiana MP Ravneet Bittu was fortified after threats from three men affiliated to human rights advocacy group for dubbing Canadian defence minister Harjit Sajjan a pro Khalistani. Bittu, who is a Z-plus protectee, said, “I was called by CM office and given addittional Montero vehicle.“
 
