BHOPAL: In a   in preparation for the forthcoming assembly election, chief minister   has shown displeasure with officials of certain priority departments for not doing enough to implement   made by him in the last three years.

 According to official records, Chouhan made nearly 8,000 promises during his first decade as CM, of which 6,000 (75%) were accomplished. But in the last three years, only 150 of his 1,500 (10%) promises have been fulfilled, say sources. The CM, who is focused on welfare schemes, is far from happy
 
 “A work plan should be prepared to examine and fulfil the promises made during various occasions. There should be a follow-up of each announcement,” Chouhan said on Saturday, while reviewing the status of announcements made under various schemes.
 
 According to sources, most of the unfulfilled promises in the last three years are under schemes launched by PWD, water resources, tribal welfare, public health engineering (PHE), urban administration and development and forest departments. These six priority departments have shown very poor results in the implementation of programmes, say officials.
 
 “Major projects announced by the   between December 26, 2015, and May 11, 2017, were to be completed by June 15, 2017. But due to lack of time, only 133 of the 343 announcements have been completed,” said a senior official at Mantralaya. These departments have been given 34 days to complete 210 announcements, which seems a hard nut to crack, he added.
 
 “It’s clear that the promises made by our party in the election manifesto and announcements made by the chief minister during public contacts will be fulfilled before the 2018 assembly elections,” said BJP state spokesperson  . “BJP has been winning elections on the development agenda and by fulfilling its promises. This has resulted in a historic hat-trick of victories since 2003. We will win the next assembly elections, too,” he asserted.
 
 At Saturday’s meeting, chief minister Chouhan ordered officials to review the claims under Forest Rights Act so that forest dwellers eligible for the scheme get their forest right certificates. There are 2.5 lakh claimants of whom 2.41 lakh have already been issued certificates, said the officials. 
 
 Sources in the Mantralaya said that discrepancies in health, women and child development, education and rural development departments were of major concern since they are directly linked to public welfare schemes in urban and rural areas. With hardly one and a half years left for the assembly polls, the BJP government is determined not to let unfulfilled promises turn into a Congress advantage in 2018.
 
