CHENNAI: The   narrowly missed deploying the latest M3-type electronic voting machines for the   as the total number of candidates in the fray, including ‘none of the above’ ( ) option, stood at 63 on the last day of withdrawal of nominations on Monday. The conventional   or M2-type machine can accommodate only 64 candidates in all and beyond that the options were to revert to ballot papers or use the latest M3-type EVMs which has additional features, including more number of candidates.

 “On the last date of withdrawal of nominations, 20 candidates, including substitution or dummy candidates of political parties and independents withdrew their papers,” a senior Election Commission official told TOI. Now, there are 54 male and eight female candidates left in the fray for the byelection caused due to the demise of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa. 
 
 R K Nagar constituency has not had so many candidates contesting any election since its inception in 1967. The results in the constituency for all elections show the number of candidates is less than this year’s byelection. For instance, in 2016 assembly election, there were 46 candidates in the fray and in the 2015 byelection, which Jayalalithaa won after being acquitted by the Karnataka high court in the disproportionate assets case, there were 28 candidates. In the 2011 assembly election, there were 28 candidates. 
 
 The number of candidates this byelection stopped just one short of the maximum. “Though conventional EVMs will suffice, we have to verify the type of EVMs we need for the byelection and a decision will be taken on Tuesday,” said a senior   election officer, seeking anonymity. Since the number of candidates is pretty high we will have four balloting units and each unit will have 16 candidates’ names, he said.
 
 “All the existing polling officials will have to be trained, especially in connecting all the four balloting units, in view of more number of candidates. The training will begin this week. The finalisation of the order of candidates, their symbols and photos will be completed and printing will begin,” said the official.
 
 In the final tally, there are 49 independents who are in the fray and seven candidates from smaller parties. 
 
