ALWAR: Famous English historian Thomas Fuller in 16th Century had stated “We never know the worth of water till the well is dry”.

 His quote is still relevant for the youths of Jat dominated villages of Bharatpur and Dholpur who are not getting bride due to water crisis. Such is the scenario that a Jat leader of the region has written a letter addressing Prime Minister   and chief minister   via divisional commissioner to ensure water supply in 30 to 40 villages from nearby rivers and Gurgaon canal. 
 
 Battling with water crisis nearly 3,500 to 4,500 youths of about 40 villages in Deeg tehsil of Bharatpur are not getting bride as the parents of the bride are not willing to marry their daughters in a family having water crisis. 
 
 Locals claimed that majority of the smaller to bigger water reservoir in the villages and nearby areas are dry. “This has not only proved fatal to the agriculture but it has also urged many to marry their daugthers outside these districts and even outside other state,” said  , member of Zila Parishad, Bharatpur while talking to TOI on Saturday. 
 
 He claimed that young boys who have crossed the age of 30 and not got married are also coming under the influence of drugs and other addiction varying from tobacco to liquor. 
 
 Locals said that villages like Mawai, Mavesara, Bedham, Kakda, Moroli are not getting timely water. Rain fed rivers and dams including Ruparel, Banganga and Gambhiri and many others are dry. 
 
 “Earlier the water level in these villages was nearly 40 feet has not gone down to 400 feet. Villagers are compelled to get water tankers by paying Rs 300 per tanker to Rs 500 per tanker,” said a villager. 
 
 Faujdar said that in the year 1994 a memorandum of understanding was inked to bring water in Dholpur and Bharatpur, still nothing has been done so far. “A delegation met the divisional commissioner and has submitted a charter of demands addressing Prime Minister, Narendra Modi and Chief minister, Vasundhara Raje seeking their intervention,” Faujdar added.
 
 
