MANGALURU: The state government has released Rs 50.6 crore for implementation of rural   scheme in Dakshina Kannada during 2016-17. A sum of Rs 42.90 crore has been spent so far and 962 envisaged works completed, B Ramanath Rai, minister for forest, environment, ecology and district in-charge said. 

 Multi-village drinking water schemes sanctioned for the district at Malavoor, Karopady and Sangabettu are in the completion stage, he added.
 
 Unfurling the national tricolour at the district level   celebration at Nehru Maidan, Rai said 37 villages in the district have been selected under gram vikas scheme and Rs 26.25 crore out of Rs 28.50 crore allocated has been spent. The government has approved six roads and bridges works under Nabard assisted scheme for 2016-17 and five are in progress. Revolving fund of Rs 94.75-lakh has been distributed to 1,895 stree Shakti groups in 2016-17, he noted.
 
 An action plan to set up a permanent rehabilitation centre for victims of endosulfan spraying over cashew nut plantations in the district is being prepared. Steps have been taken to provide financial aid to 3,030 endosulfan affected victims directly to their bank accounts. The district has successfully implemented the student tracking system pertaining to admission, attendance and education details of students and Aadhaar number of 3.23 lakh students has been seeded into the database.
 
 Referring to achievements of the government in other areas, Rai said Mangaluru City Corporation has spent Rs 177.8 crore out of Rs 182 crore released to the civic body from CMs Special Nagarothana Funds, given to city corporations in tranches of Rs 100 crore each.   has constructed 414 major roads, storm water drains utilizing this fund so far. Likewise, Rs 32 crore out of Rs 35 crore allocated to other ULBs in the district under Nagarothana scheme, has also been spent.
 
 H S Rajeshwari Devi, district surgeon, K P Girish Gowda, AEE, drinking water and sanitation sub-division, Bantwal; Abdul Basheer, and Ammi, regional health education officers, office of taluk health officer, Belthangady taluk and Gokuldas Bhakta, secretary, Idkidu GP were presented with the Sarvotham Seva Awards on this occasion. Uday Nayak and Valentine D’Souza, ACPs selected for the Presidents’ Meritorious Award too were felicitated on this occasion.
 
 Hasanabba Charmady, C H Abdul Gafur, and Manohar Sullia received the Jeeva Raksha Awards for their selfless acts of coming to the aid of accident victims under the ambit of Mukhyamantri Santwana Harish scheme. M Advika Shetty, Poorvi K Rao, Gaurish Bhat P, Lavanya, Varsha V, Shreya D Shetty, Swastik Padma, Nischith Rai, Nishan S, and Ganesh Nayak were presented with Hoysala and Keladi Chennamma Awards for 2016-17 for their district level achievements.
 
