Chennai: Demonetisation drive has drilled a hole in your books of accounts? Log on to Shubpuja.com and get a Kanakdhara puja done by a certified pandit to ease your debt situation. Whether it's life problems or court cases, platforms like Shubhpuja, bookmypandit and Harivara offer poojas and spiritual solutions in a few clicks, for the believer. 

 Saumyaa Vardhan worked abroad for seven years before returning to India. It was a cremation which she was part of that set her thinking. “When I sat there, I realised that our generation doesn’t know much. We need help from professionals who can handle all the rituals,” said Vardhan, who went on to found Shubhpuja in 2013. 
 
 From astrology and numerology to pujas for specific needs like education, finance, business or children and puja items, Shubpuja offers a one stop shop for spiritual needs. Shubpuja was one of the startups to bag funding and mentoring as part of the empoWer intitiave launched by Zone Startups India in 2016.
 
 While Vardhan entered this field purely out of interest, Arun Kumar Somaskandan, founder of Harivara, hails from a family of priests and grew up in an atmosphere that cultivated in him a love for spirituality. Hailing from Mayiladuthurai, a town in Nagapattinam district, Tamil Nadu, Somaskandan’s close connect with priests has come to his aid many a time. 
 
 “I know most of the rituals because I have been part of them in my childhood. My father interviews the priests to test their knowledge of the rituals,” he said. 
 
 Somaskandan is in talks with several banks that he can partner with to offer loans, insurance to priests. “I have seen several priests struggle with getting a bank loan. Partnering with us, they can show a steady stream of income with supporting documents,” he said. With operations in Chennai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad, Harivara is looking to launch in Mumbai soon, spearheaded by COO Ravichandra N.
 
 Sriram Shastri of Chennai has been with Harivara since 2016. Being one of the top rated priests on the platform, he is often in demand. “I work 20 days a month. I used to have 25 pupils which has grown to 46 now,” said Shastri.
 
 In an industry that is dominated by faith, rituals and gender norms, it has not been easy for both Vardhan and Somaskandan. “Initially, I was seen as the MBA girl in a suit who has come to take over the business. It is also hard when I have to go to interior parts or want to travel to say Varanasi to meet pandits. The issue of security is always at play,” she said.
 
 To break the ice with the priests, Vardhan spent over two years learning astrology, vastu and numerology. She also brushed up on Hindi and Sanskrit.
 
 Shubhpuja sees good demand from overseas clients. Ankur Sreen from Hong Kong wanted to conduct a pitro puja or ancestor worship. “I considered going to a nearby temple or having a priest over. Shubpuja gave me the sense of privacy. Also, most homes here are small with low ceilings so we cant have traditional havan puja,” said Sreen. On making the booking, Shubhpuja shared details via email and explained all the steps. “The puja is live streamed to the client via Skype. It was a great blend of tradition and technology coming together and the experience was quite pleasant,” added Sreen.
 
 Ends
 
 
