BHOPAL: Most parts of Madhya Pradesh are rain deficit and water crisis looms large as   in the state on Saturday.

 Weathermen said only six districts in the state are rain surplus while remaining 45 districts received less than average rainfall. In some districts the shortfall is as much as 50%.
 
 The monsoon season in state starts on June 1 and ends on September 30. 
 
 The met officials said on Friday that the withdrawal of monsoon has started from Rajasthan, but the process is yet to start from the state. 
 
 However, in the absence of a system, the possibility of widespread showers is very bleak.
 
 Madhya Pradesh has received 20% less rainfall till September 29. Till last month, the deficit was 13% and the number of rainfall deficient districts was 35. In past one month, the count rose to 45.
 
  The situation is more critical in the eastern MP, where 19 out of 20 districts are rain deficient. 
 
 The state government is aware of the ground reality. Officials at the secretariat say they are keeping a close watch and the worst-affected districts would be declared drought-hit. The met department now says that the deficit cannot be covered.
 
 Going by the met department’s rainfall data, the deficit over 30 districts is more than 19%. The districts that received more than normal rainfall are Burhanpur, Jhabua, Khandwa, Neemuch, Ratlam and Katni.
 
 The worst-affected districts are Balaghat, Damoh, Narsinghpur, Shahdol, Tikamgarh, Umaria, Bhind, Datia, Gwalior, Harda, Morena, Shajapur, Sheopur and Shivpuri.
 
 The state has received an average of 761.8 mm rain as against the average 955.1 mm. The met department considers 990 mm rainfall as normal for the state in the monsoon period between June 1 and September 30. The state is short of 20% of its yearly quota.
 
 Similarly, the state capital has received 781 mm rain this monsoon so far as against the average of 996.6 mm rain that it should have received till Friday. The rain deficit is 22%.
 
 Met officials said there is no fresh system in the state, but possibility of light rain and thundershowers persists at some places due to the localised development till the monsoon withdraws completely.
 
 Meanwhile, the day temperature at majority of places remained more than the normal mark. The maximum temperature remained above 35 degrees Celsius mark.
 
 
