GHAZIABAD: More than 60 percent of the cops from the   and Khora police stations, who appeared for a health check-up on Sunday at the Indirapuram police station were found to be unhealthy to render their services, according to the   that organised the camp. High blood pressure and diabetes were among the most common ailments in around 65 cops, under 40 years of age, who were found unfit. 

 Long working hours, lack of sleep, uncertain lifestyle, improper eating habits were found to be some of the key factors responsible for the deteriorating health of the cops, said Praveen Kumar, manager, Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Social Vikas Sansthan and Vishesh Police Adhikari Samooh, the NGO that conducted the camp. More than 100 cops attended the camp. 
 
 Another alarming revelation that came to the fore was that most cops confessed they were aware of their ailments, however, they could not take out time for themselves as the work pressure always kept them on their toes, said Kumar. 
 
 “The check-up covered blood test, thyroid and diabetes tests. Doctors, including general physicians and orthopedists, came from Fortis Hospital, Ambe Hospital and Nayna Shanti Diagnostic Center with their teams. ECG tests and thorough heart check-up was also conducted,” he added. 
 
 Doctors said the leading cause of the cardiovascular diseases in the cops was lack of adequate sleep. "Senior police officials explained that lack of manpower, increasing crime rate and lately, the Jat protest and UP elections took a toll on the mental and physical health of the police officials. They said they could not find time to unwind or relax," added Kumar.
 
 The doctors also found irregular eating habits as one of the important factors for poor health in cops above 40 years of age. 
 
 Shedding light on the daily rigors that cops go through, Salmantaj Patil, SP (City), said, "People think that police officers do not have a life beyond their job. During the recent elections, most of the police officials used to stay awake for the entire night and they had to do this for several days at a stretch. But we will take this seriously and try and organise retreats for the cops.” 
 
 Meanwhile, the doctors advised the cops to eat well at regular intervals, and take out time to rest to get fit. 
 
 
