AHMEDABAD: A   here has tossed out the argument of   that all surgery to reduce breast size in women is invariably cosmetic. The court ordered insurance companies, who had denied a 55-year-old woman’s claim, to pay all   she had undergone. The woman had incurred medical costs amounting to Rs1.64 lakh, and the court ordered the amount be paid in full, along with Rs5,000 towards mental harassment and legal costs.

 The court said that a 55-year-old woman, who is a housewife, is not likely to undergo such surgery for enhancement of beauty, and it is not a cosmetic surgery in this case. The court accepted the diagnosis, suggestion for surgery and the discharge summary submitted by the petitioner that revealed that following constant pain due to bilateral huge sagging breasts, reduction mammoplasty was advised. She argued that she had been suffering back and shoulder pain for a few years due to her oversized breasts.
 
 While the insurers cited an exception clause in the policy mentioning, “Circumcision, cosmetic aesthetic treatment, plastic surgery unless required to treat any injury or illness” are not insured, the court held that in the instant case, the insurers had misinterpreted the exception clause and committed serious lapse in service and also engaged in unfair trade practice.
 
 The case pertains to a 55-year-old woman from Vasna, who underwent mammoplasty in a private hospital in the city to reduce her overly large sized and sagging breasts in May last year. She had a mediclaim cover of Rs7 lakh from Medi Assist TPA Pvt Ltd and New India Assurance Co Ltd. Her claim for insurance was straightaway rejected by the insurers.
 
 The insurance companies informed her that reduction of breasts through mammoplasty is a cosmetic surgery in her case because there was no other complaint from her except that her breasts were too large. They argued that the doctor’s certificate mentioned that surgery took place because the patient was feeling discomfort, and as such insurance does not cover claims that do not belong to cases of injury and illness.
 
 Upon denial of insurance, the woman moved the  , Ahmedabad City (additional). 
 
 
