NAGPUR: Former union civil aviation minister and MP Praful Patel on Friday asked students to think ahead of time and see a larger picture that emerges before them as administrating a population diverse in culture and opinion is a challenge that is unique to India.

 Speaking at the inaugural function of   (NSP) 2017 organized by   (RGI) at GH  , Hingna, Patel said that the country has a demographic advantage over others, but, at the same time, it can also prove to be a setback. “Developed countries today have a population which is ageing and declining which gives us an edge over them. On the other hand, there are not enough education and employment opportunities for our youth,” he said.
 
 Senior journalist Manish Awasthi, actress Sonali Kulkarni and chairman of RGI Sunil Raisoni were present at the function.
 
 The former minister created a flutter of sorts when he asked in what language he should speak at the inaugural function of students parliament. Without tasting the patience of participants, he quickly said, “This is exactly what happens in the Parliament. We (politicians) are a reflection of you (public).”
 
 “The country should get its due share in development and everyone must participate,” said Patel. To boost students’ confidence, Patel said, “Everyone’s presence in the society has its own mark. You cannot be Gandhi, but you can work for the benefit of yourself as well as others.”
 
 Comparing the ideologies with which Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus (CST), Mumbai, and Brooklyn Bridge, New York, were built, Patel said, “We are not progressive in our thinking.” CST is creaking under the ever-growing passenger traffic whereas the bridge has been designed to accommodate road traffic as well as a suburban railway line, which Patel believed, is a result of forward thinking by that country’s administration.
 
 Remembering his tenure as president of Gondia municipality in 1991, Patel told students of the changes he made in administration. “A small room in the council which we used for conducting daily proceedings was modified to resemble the   in Delhi. This ensured better discipline during the discussions we held,” he said.
 
