PATNA: Four years after Bihar adopted a mortuary scheme recognising the rights of the dead, the Centre is set to roll it out across the country with the National Police Mission (NPM) making a strong push for it.

 A thinktank of police in the country, NPM is a body of IPS officers drawn from different states working on micro missions to improve policing. It functions under the Union home ministry’s Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPR&D). 
 
 ‘Standardisation of equipment and other facilities for postmortem at district headquarters’, a project conceptualised by NPM’s Bihar-cadre officer Paresh Saxena, was adjudged one of the best projects at the NPM’s two-day conference in New Delhi on Tuesday and Wednesday. The BPR&D has referred the project to the Union ministry of health and family welfare, which is in the process of writing to the states to implement it.
 
 Sources said the project was initiated by the Bihar police HQ as part of a move to enhance the quality of biomedical evidence to bring down the number of acquittals in cases of murder. The project, if implemented, will also ensure that the dead are treated with dignity for it recommends creation of mortuaries with state-of-the-art facilities.
 
 Following a presentation at Samvad Bhawan in Patna in April 2013, Bihar CM Nitish Kumar made a budgetary allocation of Rs 69 lakh each for new mortuaries in every district of the state.
 
 “New buildings have already come up in 25 districts. Work is in progress in the other districts,” Bihar Medical Infrastructure and Development Corporation GM Sanjeev Ranjan told TOI on Thursday.
 
 According to the sources, the new fly-proofed mortuaries would have an interactive room for police and doctors, CCTV cameras, waiting room for attendants, a cold storage and two operation tables, among other things. It will have proper hygiene and drainage facilities besides a separate open mortuary with fiberglass roof and walls and wind jet facility for handling decomposed bodies and mass casualties.
 
 BPR&D officers feel such an initiative will help remove autopsy flaws, which criminals take advantage of. “This is a crucial area, hitherto neglected,” BPR&D’s DG Dr Meeran C Borwankar told TOI over the phone from Mumbai.
 
 The Maharashtra-cadre IPS officer was all praise for the Bihar cop’s project work. “We have requested the Union ministry of health and family welfare to fund its implementation across the country,” she said.
 
 
