AHMEDABAD: A countrywide clarion call for action to save our rivers from extinction by   founder Sadhguru’s ‘Rally for Rivers’ campaign has reached its penultimate leg in Ahmedabad on Tuesday. He has garnered tremendous political and public support since his journey began from Coimbatore on September 3. The Sadhguru during the campaign has been stressing on a robust riparian buffer — or a minimum of 1km thick buffer plantation on either banks of the river to stabilize and revitalize our lifelines.

 During his campaign, Sadhguru reached out to schoolchildren and youngsters below age of 20 years. “You may be surprised to learn that nearly 80% of the youngsters below 20 years we met had not seen a river in their lives,” says Sadhguru.
 
 “A thick tree cover will ensure that rivers are fed by moist soil throughout the year which is essential for rivers to stay alive. Forest trees are being planted on government land and we have stressed on farmers growing fruit trees on farm land,” Sadhguru said.
 
  He added, “The fruit trees will help enhance the livelihood of farmers as well as improve nutritional intake.” He also narrated how chief ministers of various states have assured him of thick plantation drives on both banks of the river. “Tamil Nadu and Karnataka will plant 25 cr trees each,   has assured us 50 cr trees. Never has there been such consensus,” says Sadhguru.
 
 In fact, chief ministers of states like   and Telengana have assured that they will be first states in the country to implement a comprehensive policy proposed by Sadhguru to increase riparian buffer along their major rivers. 
 
 In the Gujarat leg of the campaign, Sadhguru pointed towards the example of   which has created a thick plantation alongside Par river in South Gujarat. “Through an enforcible policy we plan to involve industries first in this process, and those who can then help farmers shift to organic fruit tree cultivation. Only then can we assure farmers an income. This is the only way to achieve success,” said Sadhguru. A Rally for River activist said the policy if implemented will take at least 25 years to see a rise of 20% in the water level in rivers.
 
