The debate on nepotism seems to be far from over with different celebrities having extremely diverse opinions on the same. Producer and television czarina   cleared her stance on nepotism but with a pinch of salt.

 In an interview with Timesofindia.com, the leading entrepreneur said, “I want to be politically correct that there is no nepotism. It’s a very, very hard worth industry out there.” But she was quick to back her statement saying, “I am writing it down that if the audience doesn’t want to see a star kid, they will throw him out like bad apples. The only thing is the day the audience stop having in their heads that they do not want to see a star’s child, the producers will stop casting them. So let’s do a bit of sharing of the blame game. No one is here promoting a relative or a friend or a family member. No one really loves each other. Everyone out here casts someone because they think their film might get some curiosity value. But if the star kid doesn’t work, you never cast them again.”
 
  
 The filmmaker has now added her weight to the most controversial film of the year ‘Lipstick Under My Burkha’ that reveals the secret fantasies of four women from different walks of life played by Ratna Pathak Shah, Konkona Sen Sharma, Aahana Kumra , Plabita Borthakur. On being asked about why controversies and her Bollywood ventures go hand in hand, Ekta clarified, “The ones without controversies you don’t remember. Last year I had a film ‘Udta Punjab’ which I didn’t even know that it will run into a controversy and it did. In fact, it went into a piracy issue. Another film exactly two weeks later got pirated and was released 18 days before its release. Sometimes the movie was controversial, sometimes it was pure bad luck. Movies have become soft targets for a lot of people. We do a lot of fun and controversial stuff on TV but they don’t get picked up like films. When I had a discussion with  , the film (' ') had not run into a controversy with the censor board.” 
 Calling ‘Lipstick Under My Burkha’ a grungier, estrogen-filled version of ‘Dil Chahta Hai’ and how women need to come out of their boxes, Ekta added, “I think I am the only one from a house where the men come home early and woman come late. My brother comes very early because he has a son. My father comes home before my mother. We have actually learnt the art of breaking out of stereotypes at our home."
 
 The daughter of superstar   also revealed how she is mentoring four youngsters every year whom she calls her gladiators, but on one condition “that they will not stop working after marriage.”
 
  
 
