PUNE: Soon, your public transport bus driver may be a woman. 

 The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited ( ), which has till now found attracting   a difficult task, has planned to initiate an   towards getting women interested to join the transport body and take up challenging jobs, including that of a bus driver.
 
 Sources in PMPML told TOI that despite 30% reservation for women, women were still not applying to jobs, which was an unhealthy sign.
 
 “We have reservations for women and we have never stopped ourselves from hiring those who are interested. In fact, the CEO of PMPML is a woman. However, not many women have shown interest in such jobs,” an official said.
 
 Recently, the transport body released an advertisement for 2,040 driver posts. However, the transport body has not yet received an application from a woman, the official added. 
 
 “More than 8,000 applications have been received by the transport body for the driver posts but no woman has applied for it” D P More, the joint managing director of PMPML said.
 
 Many officials were of the view that a proper campaign could turn the tide.
 
 “A number of women drive these days, and we think that getting a heavy vehicle license will not be difficult for them at all in the present scenario. The city already has women driving public transport vehicles such as auto rickshaws. With all these things in mind, we intend to start an awareness campaign aimed at attracting women towards PMPML and its jobs,” another official pointed out on request of anonymity.
 
 The authorities said the awareness drive was being planned right now and it would be rolled out once the elections were over in the city.
 
 “There can be a lot of things in the awareness drive. The idea is to try and ask women to come to the forefront and apply for jobs with the PMPML whenever there are vacancies and the recruiting process is on. Though things are still being finalised, the campaign can have some meetings at different places in Pune and   areas on the issue, especially with women being invited and asked for their opinions and viewpoints. The other idea is to come up with advertisements in some of the buses on different routes,” the official added.
 
 The official also said that these advertisements would also invite women to participate on dialogues on women empoverment. “The advertisements would have some slogans to send the message across in simple but powerful and inspiring words. PMPML may also introduce some perks for the interested women, but a final call on this would be taken by senior officials of the governing body. The campaign will be properly planned and rolled out in the near future,” the official said.
 
