Right in front of  , a big crowd has gathered, and one can hear voices of young women – "Aao Aao Natak Dekho", followed by rhythmic clapping. This is a nukkad natak performance by  . The young women constables enact three scenarios of sexual harassment and molestation in front of the crowd. In between they talk about sections 376, 354 and 166 A of the Indian Penal Code and the related punitive measures.

 They end the nukkad natak with a huge round of applause from the cheering crowd, and with words that resonate the Indian society and tradition "Durga ka ek roop hai naari, jisko puje duniya sari". These are the most abused words in our society. Women are put on a high pedestal when it suits patriarchy, and brutally thrown down, whenever it is inconvenient. But the Parivartan Cell of North District Delhi Police is doing a good job of reminding women who they are, and what their rights are.
 
 They are conducting self-defence trainings, and on an average, every year, 12 to 13,000 young women are trained. Through door to door campaigns young women are educated about Zero FIR. They are encouraged to raise their voice against molestation on streets, harassment in offices, and violence at home. There are strict instructions that all complaints must be registered and all culprits booked. 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The increasing incidents of sexual harassment and molestation show the collective fall of ethics and morals in our society. The Bengaluru incident reminded me of instances of molestation, which I had suffered as a young girl, and didn’t report out of shame. Most of us have faced such incidents of unwelcome touching or groping in public transport or on roads, and cat calls, so many times that we are trained to ignore them.
 
 But it’s not ‘ok’. If a girl says ‘no’, she means ‘no’ and if a man still doesn’t understand, he is committing crimes under various sections of Indian Penal Code. Today, I urge all young women, who are victims of any kind of sexual abuse to come forward, without any hesitation. It’s not your shame, it’s their shame!
 
 
