MOHALI: Zirakpur, Kharar and Mohali MC’s will jointly purchase   to facilitate the residents, said Dera Bassi legislator Narinder Kumar Sharma during a round table conference organized by the Times of India between the residents and officials of MC at Zirakpur on Sunday. This came in after residents raised concerns about the lack of proper public transport system in Zirakpur.

 “Zirakpur, Kharar, Mohali MC’s will jointly purchase the local buses of different variants. We have already got the proposal approved by the government. It will be implemented soon. The district transport office has also earmarked the routes, which have been sent to secretary regional transport officer (RTO), Punjab for final approval,” he said. He further added that they will request general manager CTU to re-introduce the CTU connectivity at VIP road.
 
 Residents also complained that the lack of public transport connectivity has been burning a hole in their pockets. “We have to depend on our own vehicle or hire a cab,” said one of the residents.
 
 Dinesh Malhotra, a resident of VIP road, highlighted the plight of the elderly citizens and said, “There is poor connectivity of local buses on VIP road. Earlier CTU had introduced bus services on this road. It was a sparsely populated area then. The service was called off due to a poor response,” he said. Today, the area is thickly populated and residents, especially the elderly, feel the need to use public transportation.
 
 Resident Vivek Acharya, too, sounded worried about the senior citizens. “They depend on their pension. It is not possible for them to hire a cab or auto rickshaw to commute daily. The local bus connectivity between Zirakpur and Chandigarh will give relief to the elderly,” he said.
 
 Concerns have also been raised by residents that state transport buses operate through the flyover now. But if the buses ply under the flyover, the residents can avail the facility to travel on long-distance buses. Sharma has promised he will talk to various GM’s of Haryana, Punjab, and CTU and request them to direct the bus drivers and conductors to follow the route beneath the flyover.
 
 Recently, district transport officer (DTO) Jasbir Singh has identified 14 routes for the city bus service. He has also sent the draft proposal for approval to secretary regional transport officer (RTO), Punjab.
 
 These routes include the railway station, Mohali (RSM) to the PGI, the RSM to the ISBT-43, airport to the ISBT-43,   to the ISBT, Phase VI, RSM to the ISBT, Phase VI, airport to the ISBT, Phase VI, Mohali to Banur, Mohali (sector 65) to Nayagaon, Kharar to the RSM, Kharar to Zirakpur, the ISBT, Phase VI, to Zirakpur and Landran to Zirakpur, ISBT Phase VI to airport via railway station.
 
