HYDERABAD: With the superstars of cricket descending on the city for the 10th edition of the   (IPL), police of the three commissionerates have launched a massive   to rein in betting gangs, laundering crores of rupees on each encounter.

 Even though demonetisation has acted as a dampener on the cricket betting business, enforcement agencies suspect gangs will find novel ways to circumvent the liquidity crunch.
 
 “We have information from a few punters that this time organisers are willing to take payments in gold, silver or diamonds as online money transfer is still too risky. Merchants at  ,   and Ghansi Bazar will get busy ,“ said an enforcement directorate (ED) official. Task force detectives of Hyderabad and special operations teams ( ) of Cyberabad and Rachakonda commissionerates have been put on high alert to bust betting rackets.
 
 Police has started keeping tabs on offenders, arrested in cricket betting cases in the past few years. “All the offenders are out on bail and we came to know that most of the key players have already left the city . We believe they have set up bases in other states,“ an SOT official said. Some key players are operating from Goa, Mumbai and Nagpur.
 
 The main betting activity takes place at Begum Bazar and Siddiamber Bazar areas, where till about two years ago, around 200 people used to work for betting gangs during IPL.
 
 “The gangs are not taking many clients (read punters) this time and that has cut down the manpower. These days the maximum number of punters in a group averages 25,“ a task force official said. Police claim there used to be a lot of voice call activity between punters and organisers till recently, but they have switched over to secure platforms like WhatsApp with voice clarity and video call facility.
 
 As a number of betting gang members are repeat offenders,   inspector Narsinga Rao said they might even look into the possibility of booking them under the PD Act.
 
 Police have information that gangs are operating from vacant flats of mega apartment complexes, which have mushroomed on the city's outskirts. Cyberabad police commissioner Sandeep Shandilya said the SOT sleuths were on a special watch to track the IPL betting activity.
 
