GURUGRAM: Spirits are low in  , the place synonymous with eating out in Gurgaon and a popular destination for food lovers in Delhi, with 11 big bars and restaurants shutting down this month. Six more have closed their bars but are still open. 

 The establishments that have shut down are heavily dependent on booze sales but have not been able to sell liquor since April 1 when the   ban on alcohol being served within 500 metres of a state or national highway came into effect. They have, as a result, decided to shut shop temporarily. The 11 bars and restaurants that have done so are OTB, Chull, Vapour,  ,  ,  , Agent Jack’s bidding bar,   by Sutra,  , Adda by Striker and  . 
 
 Prankster, Golden Dragon, Sense of Spirit, Swagath Hotel, Punjabi by Nature and Barcelos remain operational but are not serving liquor. Collectively, these establishments employ close to 1,500 people, including waiters, cooks, bartenders and receptionists, who are faced with sudden uncertainty about their jobs.
 
 “The measurements for Sector 29 were done on April 1, following which the liquor licences of 18 outlets, including Huda Gymkhana Club, have been cancelled as per the Supreme Court orders,” Aruna Singh, excise commissioner (Gurgaon east), told TOI. Singh, however, said the affected outlets still have an option to approach the district-level committee formed under the chairmanship of the deputy commissioner for review of the decision.
 
 Ashwani Chowdhary, owner of Adda by Striker and The Walking Street, said they were planning to approach the committee. “We feel the distance from the highway in our case is more than 500 metres. Hence, we will approach the committee formed by the Haryana government on Monday for a review,” he said.
 
 However, in case the review route fails for these outlets, there is very little chances that they can sustain only on food sales. “We are running and serving food as of now. However, in the long run, sustaining only on food revenue will be not possible,” said one of the restaurant owners in Sector 29.
 
 The situation is similar for almost all other outlets. Owners said food sales would not be able to support the expense and even if they did, the whole set-up, including the interiors, will need to be redone.
 
 Sahil Joshi, who runs Warehouse Café, said, “Right from the investor who has put money in the business to the person who does the dishes, everybody’s life will be impacted. Their families will be affected too. While someone has the education of a younger sibling to look after, someone else has an ailing parent to take care of.”
 
 Meanwhile, bars at   face an anxious wait with measurements to determine their distance from the highway due. Cyber Hub has changed its approach route to increase motorable distance from the highway beyond 500 metres.
 
 
