CHENNAI: The work of five promising contemporary painters from   is on display at The Gallery at   in Chennai. The ‘Korean Quintet’ showcases the work of Son Yoo Kyung, Kim Myung Soo, Lee Dam, Kim Seok Jung and Kim Sook.

 Through their programmes, the InKo Centre aims at raising awareness of the richness and range of Korean visual art forms in India and vice-versa. The present exhibition is being organised by InKo Centre in association with K-Art International Exchange Association, Busan. The paintings on display give viewers an insight into the varying styles, tonalities, moods and preoccupations of the various artists.
  
 Son Yoo Kyung, for instance, draws inspiration from peonies which, in Asian culture, denote wealth and success. For the artist, the flower is a metaphor for fortune and happiness. 
 
 Kim Myung Soo, on the other hand, draws inspiration from the temple’s dancheong colour. Dancheong refers to the Korean decorative styling technique of colouring wooden buildings and artifacts. Soo uses particular colours and rearrange them in a manner that gives it a contemporary twist.
  
 Lee Dam, on his canvas, draws out the story of life in which we can all be happy together, free from all kinds of hardships- not the past, nor in the future but in the very moment which, according to the artist, is the most beautiful and bright time in one’s life. The artist realises that every single moment of life is a party and that it is innocence and passion that truly brings happiness.
  
 According to Korean critic,  , an art and science researcher at the National Museum of Contemporary Art, Kim Seok Jung’s earlier works leaned towards a more realistic description from a neutral point of view, but gradually developed in the current semi-abstraction style based on the artist’s own philosophy for formation and experiments for style. 
  
 Kim Sook focuses on fidelity to realism and natural aesthetics while aiming at to expressing the ideas that occur in her mind through her interaction with nature. In addition, she uses formative colours and techniques to present her painting that unites the essence of the cockscomb – a flower and the main source of inspiration and an important motif -- with the passion for life.
  
 The exhibition is open till October 7 on all days (except Sundays) from 10am to 6pm.
 
 
