NEW DELHI: The two Sufi clerics of Delhi's  , Syed Asif Nizami, and  , who had gone missing in Pakistan, returned back to the national capital on Monday.
 
 After landing in the national capital, the clerics blamed a Pakistani newspaper for the whole chaos.
 
 Notably, Pakistani newspaper Ummat had reported that the clerics worked for Research and Analysis Wing (R&AW) and Muttahida Qaumi Movement (MQM) movement.
 
 
  
 On the basis of this report, the clerics said they were 
  for the purpose of questioning.
 
  
  Nazim Ali Nizami, one of the clerics, did reject Pakistani media reports that they were in "interior Sindh where there was no communication network".
 
 "We did not have visa for Sindh interior region, so how could we have gone there? We come from the school of sufi which teaches peace and brotherhood. There are good and bad elements and those who go against the teachings they have to suffer humiliation," he told reporters, without elaborating further.
 
 When asked as to why they were "interrogated", Nazim said they were asked about their visa and other immigration details.
 
 The sufi clerics are expected to meet External Affairs Minister   today.
 
 The duo on their arrival visited the Hazrat Nizamuddin Dargah and were warmly welcomed by the people.
 
 Amir Nizami, the son of Asif Nizami, thanked the Indian government for its intervention in ensuring the return of his father and Ali Nizami.
 
 "I would like to thank the Indian Government, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Sushma Sawarj and  . We are very happy that our government made their efforts in helping them to return," Nizami told ANI.
 
 Asif 
  and Nazim Ali 
  had gone to Lahore on March 8 but went missing in the middle of last week following which India took up the issue with Islamabad. The main purpose of the visit of Asif to Pakistan was to see his sister in Karachi.
 
 On Saturday, Pakistan had conveyed to India that the clerics were traced and had reached Karachi.
 
 External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj had 
  Prime Minister's Adviser on Foreign Affairs Sartaj Aziz and requested him to trace the  .
 
 Yesterday, Swaraj had spoken to Asif 
  and said they were safe.
 
 According to Pakistani media reports, both clerics had been in "interior Sindh where there was no communication network" and that is why they could not inform their relatives about their whereabouts.
 
 Earlier, Pakistani sources had said the two clerics were in the custody of Pakistan's intelligence agency over their alleged links with the Muttahida Qaumi Movement (MQM).
 
 They were offloaded from Karachi-bound Shaheen Airlines on March 14 at the Allama Iqbal International Airport, Lahore, the Pakistani sources had said.
 
 
 
 
