PUDUCHERRY:   has barred 304   students, who joined under management quota in three  , from appearing for first year examinations as neither the Puducherry government nor the college managements submitted necessary documents to prove their basic academic qualifications.

 Pondicherry University, which had deferred the examinations for the first year MBBS students for the academic year 2016-17 by a month, finally decided to hold it from July 13 for rest of the students, including 146 students, who joined the course under state quota in these colleges. The university had not received the proof of academic qualification of students, who joined the course in three private colleges under management quota. 
 
 “The first year MBBS exam is conducted only for those students whose qualifications are recognized and registered as matriculates of our university for the academic year 2016-17. For the remaining students admitted under management quota, examination will be conducted on receipt of recognition order from the academic section of the university,” said controller of examinations (in-charge) K Tharanikkarasu in an official communication
 
 The Puducherry government and private medical colleges have to submit the list of students joining MBBS course under state and management quotas with documents proving their academic qualifications to Pondicherry University. “The university recognized the lists of MBBS students under state quota but raised a few queries on the lists of MBBS students under management quota and sought the concurrence of the government,” said a university official.
 
 An official of the health directorate said the directorate has begun the process of issuing concurrence to the university and added that the government will soon decide on the issue. “We are waiting for government’s direction,” said the official.
 
 The university has barred 112 students from Pondicherry institute of medical sciences (Pims), 97 students from Sri Venkateshwaraa medical college hospital and research centre (SVMC) and 95 students from Sri Manakula Vinayagar medical college and hospital (SMVMC) while permitting 38 students from Pims, 53 in SVMC and 55 in SMVMC to appear for first year MBBS examinations.
 
 The university will hold theory examinations from July 13 to 19 and practical examinations from July 24 to 29. The university, which will commence online registration and issue hall tickets from July 7, will close registration by July 10.
 
 There are 1,200 MBBS seats - 150 in government medical college, 450 in three private medical college and hospital (Pims, SVMC and SMVMC) and 600 seats in four institutions affiliated by deemed universities. The private colleges and institutions surrendered 283 seats under State quota.
 
 Centralized admission committee (Centac) drew a merit list based on the plus two marks of the students and filled up 127 seats in government medical college (remaining 23 seats went to all India pool) and 283 seats (surrendered by private medical colleges to the government) in private medical colleges. The private colleges and institutions filled the remaining 767 seats under management quota.
 
 
