It's just over a kilometre from   to  , but on Friday, these two zones of   -the office para and the wine-and-dine hub — could well be two different countries.While a million people gathered at Esplanade on chief minister  's call for the Martyrs' Day rally, on Park Street, empty restaurants waited through lunch hour for patrons who never came. Mocambo,  , Oasis and other popular eateries saw the turnout fall by 50-75%. On most other days, these establishments are chock-a-block, and patrons even have to wait for some time before they can grab tables.
At places like Oasis and Tung Fong, some of the staff reached late too. “There was no public trans port, cabs were not available and even bus routes were changed,“ said a worker of Oasis. Some of the shopping malls in the area also saw low footfall, since there were very few app cabs operating in the city and most people preferred to stay indoors to beat the rally blues.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 One of the most popular eateries on Park Street, on most days you will have to wait in a queue outside this restaurant to get a table. On Friday though, almost the entire place was empty during lunch hour
 
 
 
 The posh cafe at the busiest junction of Park Street saw business fall by 50% on Friday.One of the managers told us that they had done just 10 bills since the morning -a dismal number
 
 
 
 Tung Fong on Mirza Ghalib Street is famous for its Chinese fare. But on Friday, only three tables were occupied in this huge restaurant around 2.30 pm. The guest count was 25% of other days
 
 
 
 The casual chic of this cafe attracts a motley crowd -from college students to young professionals -all day. But till Friday afternoon, the cafe had done just nine bills
 
 
 
 
 `Because of the rally, I could not find an autorickshaw in Dum Dum! I had to call a friend to drive me to Park Street' — 
 
 
 `Since I live on Park Street, I could come out of my house to meet my friend. The restaurants are all empty, like it's a strike' — 
 
 
 `The business is very bad today. At Tung Fong, we have 75% fewer guests than on other days due to the rally and the rain' — 
 There was no way to figure out how many app cabs were there on the road on Friday, but many drivers confirmed that they had skipped work to avoid getting caught in the rally mess. Central Kolkata was completely congested and no driver wanted to take the risk of landing up there. “I'm planning to do night duty today. After 6 pm, the roads will clear out and there won't be any traffic congestion. That way , my earnings will not be hampered,“ said Sandeep Srawan, an Uber driver.
 
 
 
 While business was bad in the first half of the day, coowner Pratap Daryanani was hopeful about Friday evening. “This happens every time there is a rally.Business always picks up in the evening,“ he said
 
 
 
