NEW DELHI: In a significant move indicating a softening of stance, chief minister   has written to LG   seeking a mechanism to prevent “unpleasant incidents“ arising out of “real or perceived encroachment on each other's jurisdiction“.

 The letter follows a meeting between the two on Wednesday, in which Kejriwal is learnt to have voiced his concerns. This is a major shift from the aggressive posturing over two years in the turf battle between the LG and Delhi government. The matter is now before the SC. While top sources asserted that the letter shouldn't be seen as a dilution of the government's stand, it's clear that Kejriwal — against the backdrop of poll losses — is trying to put the focus on development and seeking an image makeover. With many plans unable to take off without the approval of the LG, the Delhi government seems to be looking for a way out. Mohalla clinics and teacher recruitments are some instances.The letter also comes in the wake of secretaries being called by the LG directly for discussion and ministers not having any knowledge of such interactions.
 
 The chief minister, in his letter, is learnt to have reminded the LG of their discussion on Wednesday on coordination. He has reiterated his suggestion that they should discuss their “understanding of the Constitution, government of NCT of Delhi Act and transaction of business rules in relation to division of powers between LG and the elected government“.
 
 Kerjiwal is learnt to have emphasized that “such a discussion will avoid unpleasant incidents which happen sometimes due to real or perceived encroachment on each other's jurisdiction.“ He added he was “grateful“ that the LG “readily agreed to have such a discussion sometime soon after going through these legislations“.
 
 Kejriwal's interactions with Baijal so far have not played out in the form of open letters or public attacks unlike in the case of Najeeb Jung. In the war over interpretation of the law that started in 2015, several AAP government orders were struck down by Jung. The LG's office asserted its constitutional right to be the final word on appointments, transfers etc, while the CM's office said the elected government cannot be bypassed.
 
 On August 4, 2016, the Delhi high court gave a landmark ruling saying that the LG has primacy in administering the capital, putting the AAP government on the back foot. Even as the court pronounced the order, the battle escalated as the AAP government went to   in appeal. The CM's letter to the LG signals a thaw in the big fight.
 
