BHOPAL:   of sewage, pollutants and other activities are adversely affecting the health of Upper Lake and aquatic life in the millennia-old water body like never before. A large number of fish were found dead towards the Boat Club, a grim reminder and an outcome of depleting oxygen levels in the water reservoir, which caters to drinking water need of a sizeable population of the capital. 

 Experts warn pollution poses greatest threat to the millennia-old lake and the largest man-made water body in the country is in an urgent need of conservation. Like in Lower Lake and Shahpura Lake, poor dissolved levels of oxygen in the Upper Lake is causing a sense of unease among the experts. At a time when many cities reel under severe water shortage, experts warn of rising pollution levels in Upper Lake, more so because of city’s dependence on drinking water needs. 
 
 “Dead fish can be seen floating on the surface. In my lifetime, I have never seen dead fish towards the Boat Club. There is a unbearable stench in the air. It is something we do not expect when standing at the Lake side,” said Kishore Singh, a frequent visitor to the Boat Club.
 
 Ever increasing presence of tourism activity increased carbon footprint around the lake is affecting its biodiversity, he said.
 
 Popularly known as Bada Talab is perhaps the oldest man-made lake in India and a wetland annotated as a Ramsar Site (Ramsar Convention is an international treaty for the conservation and wise use of wetlands).
 
 Activist Subash C Pandey warns much of the Upper Lake water is categorised as B or D grade. Simply put, B grade water is deemed drinkable only after a proper filtration process. As for aquatic species like fish, D grade water is deadly. Fish cannot survive in ‘D’ grade water due to very low oxygen levels.
 
 Experts estimate that A grade or water that can be consumed without filtration is a thing of the past in the Upper Lake, which was built by Raja Bhoj, 1000 years ago. A grade or water that can be consumed without filtration does not exist in the lake.
 
 Raja Bhoj (AD 1000-1053) found the area suitable for his dream water harvesting projects and thus laid down foundation of a great civilization to prosper here, said conservation archaeologist Pooja Saxena. Not only did Raja Bhoj built a great Bhoj reservoir, the Upper Lake, he changed the eco-system and the destiny of the area forever, she said.
 
 A millennia later, experts warn water below 8-feet is still considered consumable, but it may not last long. “As things stand, there needs to be immediate intervention to save the Upper Lake. If urgent measures are not adopted in the coming five years or so, the water body would be lost,” warned Pandey. More than 40% of the state capital depends on drinking water from the Upper Lake.
 
 Many activists and citizen groups have demanded the state government make public report on Upper Lake by Ahmedabad-based Centre for Environmental Planning and Technology (CEPT) University. The report is a comprehensive study on ‘wise use’ and conservation of the Upper Lake.
 
