PATNA
  A   threatening a Bihar minister with expulsion from Islam from the top cleric of a leading Islamic seminary had instant effect: the arraigned JD(U) MLA   drove up to   at Phulwari Sharif and said he was sorry for raising the slogan of Jai Shri Ram.
 
  Mufti of Imarat-e-Sharia, Sohail Ahmed Qasmi, issued the fatwa against Bihar’s minority welfare minister Khurshid,  , on Sunday, saying anyone who appreciatively acknowledges any other religion apart from Islam faces ex-communication. After his regret, the fatwa was withdrawn.
  
  Imarat-e-Sharia official Anis-Ur-Rahman said the minister met the Mufti late Sunday evening and apologized for hurting Muslim sentiments. “Only after he apologized was he pardoned,” said Rahman. Sources said a senior government official was with Khurshid when he visited the Sharia for apology.
  
  The fatwa had sternly warned that all Muslims should avoid having any terms with Khurshid until he apologizes. The fatwa also read that Khurshid’s marriage would not be considered valid until his expression of regret.
  
  
  Khurshid, who was appointed minority welfare minister on Saturday, had raised the Jai Shri Ram slogan full-throatedly on July 28 at the entrance of the Bihar assembly. He also said he would raise the slogan repeatedly if it resulted in Bihar’s development, soon after JD(U) formed alliance with the BJP.
  
  Talking to reporters soon after the fatwa, Khurshid defended his words and said the almighty knew about his intentions, but later apologized. “I did not say anything to hurt anyone’s sentiment,” he said. Nevertheless, the fatwa kicked off a debate as the BJP and JD(U) came in Khurshid’s support.
  
  BJP’s Afzar Shami underscored the ‘Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb’ and said no one’s certificate was required to be a Muslim. “Ram and Rahim are the ideals of the country,” he said. BJP MLA and health minister Mangal Pandey said the fatwa shows the mentality of the people. “The country is a place of unity in diversity,” he said.
  
  JD(U) spokesperson Neeraj Kumar said the names of Ram and Rahim were even chanted by Mahatma Gandhi. But, former minister and RJD MLA Abdul Bari Siddiqui did not speak against the fatwa and said Khurshid raised the slogan in over-excitement. He said more such controversies could follow.
