BHOPAL: When Bhopal was writhing in pain in 1984 owing to the gas tragedy and there was dance of death all over, Odia community sprang into action and joined the rescue operation with full gusto to provide a healing touch to the suffering humanity. The residents of Odia basti, located near Dussehra Maidan, not only provided a timely succour, but also caught the attention of Bhopal residents with their benevolent nature.

 “The people of the Odia basti did their best to help the victims. Their aid in the rescue operation was commendable,” said Dr DK Satpathy. Over time, the community has made the city its home, and have become part and parcel of Bhopal’s rich composite culture.
 
 Former director of medico-legal institute Dr DK Satpathy was one of the first Odia community members to come to the city. Turning nostalgic, he said, “I came here way back in 1968. There were just 20 to 22 of us here then.”
 
 Now, the city of lakes has become the second home to 1000-odd Odia families. The unmatched weather and beauty of the city was one of the main reasons for the community to come calling to Bhopal. Many of them say that the local climate here keeps them reminding of the pleasant weather in their original homeland -- land of Lord Jagannath.
 
 Another major attraction for the community was BHEL which provided a great job opportunity to the educated community that was in search of greener pastures. “Between 2006 and 2008, there was a buzz about recruitment in BHEL. Hence, many people from Sambalpur and Kalahandi and other parts of Odisha came to Bhopal. Today, we are in thousands,” said Sanjeeb Nanda.
 
 The community also brought with it the rich traditions of their state and integrated them seamlessly with the local culture. Being a vibrant and dynamic community, it has helped in enriching the society immensely. “In order to help our community members integrated, we organise frequent meetings which traditional Odia sweets and home-made rice vadas,” said Arun Kumar Hota, one of the active members of the society. “I have been here for 14 years. Bhopal is now my home. I love the climate of Bhopal. It reminds me of my childhood days in Odisha,” he added.
 
 The Odia community has a rich range of cuisines which have also become popular among the local populace. Delicacies like ‘chhenapod’, ‘ambil’, ‘monda’, ‘pitha’ and ‘kheer’ continue to titillate the taste buds of Bhopal residents with their unique aroma and flavour. “Odias and Rathyatra are inseparable. I came to Bhopal 15 years back. Every year during sukla paksha, we hold Rathyatra. We prepare anna, dalma, laal bhaji and kheer for Lord Jagannath’s bhog,” said Arun Ponda, priest of the Jagannath temple near Jawahar Chowk.
 
 “Last year in Nuakhai festival, we made the statue of Samaleswari Devi with thermocol. Sambalpuri saris and pattachitra were also put on display. We also invite some celebrity to grace the occasion. Last year, Padma Shri Halder Nag, an eminent poet, attended the event,” said Prashant Kumar Oram.
 
 
 
 
 Nuakhai: Falls between September and October. In this festival, freshly- harvested paddy is offered to Samaleswari Devi. Events based on Odia music and Chhau dance are organised. Sweets and traditional dishes, such as laal bhaji and kakra, are prepared.
 
 Pushpuni: It’s a festival of joy. The aroma of home-made sweets, fish or some other non-vegetarian dish is prepared. Like Bengalis, the Odias also love fish like Hilsa. The Odia farming community follows the Pushpuni calendar. Platter includes bari sabji, laddu, aarisa and ambil.
 
 Utkal Diwas: Celebrated on April 1. The state of Odisha was founded on this day. Apart from lectures, poetry and music sessions are organised.
 
 Poet’s anniversary: Birth anniversary of eminent poet Gangadhar Meher is celebrated in August. His poems are recited and talks on his work are held.
 
 
 
 
 Pitha: Comprises coconut and is sprinkled with rice dust. The rice cake is delicately half-fried in ghee or oil.
 
 Chhenapod: This sweet -- made of chhena, cashew nuts and raisins – is baked at homes. Many say the sweet originated at Nayagarh.
 
 Kheer: A thick chhena product. A sweet delicacy served at almost every get0-togethers, besides being offered to deities.
 
 Pakhala: This dish is prepared by adding water to cooked rice and fermented for a night. The fermented preparation is called ‘basi pakhala’. Also, there is ‘saja pakhala’, an unfermented rice.
 
 Dalma: A kind of dal preparation, this dish comprises vegetables. It can be garnished by turmeric, mustard seeds and panch phutana.
 
 
 
 
 
 Former director of medico-legal institute Dr DK Satpathy's interview.
 
 
  
 
 I came here as a medical student in 1968
 
 
 
 
 Education was always good in Odisha, but job opportunities were not enough. BHEL was a major attraction for many Odias.
 
 
 
 
 As a member of the non-Hindi speaking community, I was felicitated by the then chief minister Arjun Singh in 1985 for my contribution to the Hindi-speaking state. 
 
 
 
 
 Yes. I know someone who makes really good kheer, chhenapod and laddu. Now, he is in Bhilai. I have asked him to shift to Bhopal and start a sweet-shop. Hopefully, he will start in another two years.
 
 
 
 
 During Nuakhai festival, we invite people from diverse communities. Kids also take part in our festival and contests.
 
 What about the Odia kids here? Do they know their mother-tongue?
 
 Our kids learn the language during their school vacation. It is primarily the women in the house that teach kids about the language.
 
