NEW DELHI: The high court has said it will study Monday’s   ruling on   in private unaided schools on  .

 Justice Manmohan asked the Delhi government to produce a copy of the apex court’s order after the latter informed him about the verdict, which was made in its favour.
 
 SC on Monday dismissed an appeal by a committee of private unaided schools challenging a   order asking them to take the government’s permission before hiking fees.
 
 A CJI-led bench said these schools have to take permission from the government before hiking fees as they are on DDA land, and refused to admit the plea for hearing.
 
 Meanwhile in the HC, parents submitted before Justice Manmohan that the AAP government’s order to admit students using the neighbourhood criteria is bad in law and has curtailed their fundamental rights.
 
 “We are not concerned with the terms of the (DDA) allotment letter. We are opposed to the Delhi government’s decision as it has restricted our choice or right to decide where to send our children to study,” senior advocate Sandeep Sethi, appearing for the parents, told the court.
 
 “This choice or right cannot be restricted by an executive order. The order completely eliminates our right to apply in these 298 schools. By way of this order our fundamental rights cannot be curtailed,” the petitioners added.
 
 The parents, the Action Committee of Unaided Recognised Private Schools and the Forum for Promotion of Quality Education, have moved the court against the government’s order on the ground that the neighbourhood restriction was “unreasonable”.
 
 The two circulars of December 19, 2016, and January 7 have enforced the allotment clause and have, thereby, restricted admissions in schools on DDA land.
 
 The court, however, by way of an interim order had allowed parents to fill up application forms for various schools based on the criteria set by them as well as the Delhi government. 
 
 Later, it also stayed the Delhi government’s notification asking private minority unaided schools to accept nursery admission forms using the neighbourhood criteria.
 
 The associations and the parents concluded arguments on Monday and from Tuesday AAP government will begin its arguments.
 
