Indian Institute of Management, Indore, was recently in the news for beating the impact of demonetisation as the students of IIM got a 22 per cent upswing in annual package compared to the last year. Indore Times finds out if the placement scenario is similar in other colleges in the city as well. Most of the management colleges in the city have made it big this year, as far the campus placement is concerned. “The process of campus placement is still underway in our college and over 30 companies have already come down for recruiting students so far, while only 20 companies had come last year. Eighty per cent of the final year students from different management courses have already gotten placed and more companies are expected to come by the end of March,” informed Dr Suresh Patidar, placement officer of International Institute of Professional Studies (IIPS), adding, “Our highest package so far for this year is `6.7 lakh, which has been bagged by an MBA Management Science student of the fifth year.” The scenario in Institute of Management Studies (IMS) was a lot similar with over 35 companies coming down for recruitment. Animesh Tiwari, an MBA student of IMS who was recently absorbed by a financial services company for a package of `7 lakh shares, “Our college has seen a great placement this year both in terms of number of students getting absorbed and the package. The average package last year was over `4 lakh which has increased to `5-6 lakh this year. Even in the MBA programme for Hospital Administration, 52 companies had come for recruitment and 350 students out of 450 have been absorbed by these companies.”  Nishtha Shukla, an MBA MS student of IIPS College, who was placed before demonetisation had taken a toll, shares, “I was placed with a major international accounting and consulting firm in the month of October. However, towards the ned of November we saw many students panicking due to demonetisation. But as time progressed, companies started pouring in and selected students in bulk. Thirty two out of 40 students from our class have gotten placed.” Students also thought that they might need to settle for a smaller package. Shruti Soni, an MBA Core student from the same college adds, “I appeared for over six companies before I could get a decent package in the field of my choice. Fear had definitely gripped our minds, but all is well now.” The companies that had come to recruit students were impressed by their preparation, compelling them to hire in bulk. Dr Lalit Engle, placement co-ordinator of Educational Multimedia Research Centre informs, “Most of the management colleges had conducted institute and industrial meets wherein experts from the industry had taken various lectures. The purpose of these meetings was to understand the demand and need of the industry and train students accordingly. Big broadcaster, media and production houses and digital media agencies recruited many students from our college.” Students owe their success to the faculties as well. Mini Jain, who has been recruited as an associate producer at a TV channel shares, “The college has trained us properly. It wouldn’t have been possible without the faculty’s support to put up a good show in front of the companies.” While management colleges have seen great placements this year, the recruitment process is underway in many engineering colleges as well. Dr Govind Maheshwari, professor in-charge of placement of Institute of Engineering and Technology (IET) shares, “Over 21 IT companies have conducted the recruitment process in our college so far. A number of companies had come for the placement on day zero (the first day of campus placement) in September, the results of which were announced after a few months. As a result, 400 students out of 460, have gotten placed this year. Since the results were announced late, the number of job offers this year is 800 and now it is up to the students to choose the company of their choice, since many students have offers from two or three companies.”