BENGALURU: The ministry of external affairs (MEA) said on Monday that the e-migrate system had been put in place a year-and-a-half ago to record details of those going to Emigration Clearance Required (ECR) countries, but there were some glitches which had to be rectified. 

 Briefing reporters on the concluding day of Pravasi Bharatiya Divas (PBD) here, minister of state for external affairs V K Singh said: "The ECR data remains incomplete because a large number of people go through devious routes. Neither do we (MEA) know nor are our consulates aware that they are coming. They don't approach us till the time they get into trouble. It requires a great amount of work for us to get details of such workers and update them. At the moment, there are lacunae in this and we are addressing them."
 
 Singh said the issue was complicated as workers use illegal routes to go abroad. "If a person is going to the USA following the Malaysia, Indonesia, South America and Mexico route, I don't have any details about him."
 
 ECR is required for 17 countries: Afghanistan, Bahrain, Iraq, Indonesia, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Jordan, Libya, Lebanon, Malaysia, Oman, Qatar, Sudan, Syria, Thailand, UAE and Yemen.
 
 Singh's statement comes in the backdrop of reports about Indian workers in   ( ) countries alleging that Indian workers are exploited by recruitment agents and sponsors because of the lack of a comprehensive database on Indians working abroad. In fact, a delegation from Qatar had requested Indian authorities to maintain a registry of workers going abroad.
 
 Earlier, delivering the valedictory address, President   urged NRIs to become emissaries of the new and exciting growth story of India. Conferring the   to 30 NRIs and PIOs, Mukherjee said: "You (NRIs) are at the forefront of the nation and are the emissaries who narrate to the world the exciting growth story of India as a nation. The growth story of the nation was the story of 1.3 billion people and also that of great diversity and underlying unity.''
 
 The President released a compilation of speeches by Prime Minister   that enunciated the foreign policies of the current Indian government. He said the book spelt out the direction of India's growth and its foreign affairs.
 
 Meanwhile, the MEA was hounded with the question of how many overseas Indians had attended the three-day event. The trigger was MEA's claim that PBD-2017 was a resounding success, as it was attended by around 7,200 delegates, of which only around 2,000 were overseas Indians. 
 
 When it was pointed out that there were more nivasis (locals) in an event meant for pravasis (overseas Indians), Singh said: "That impression is wrong. The number of people which come for this event is normally small. A large number of people is already here for the past month or so on holiday." 
 
 Singh maintained that PBD-2017 had managed to attract a large crowd -- while some were in the halls, attending conferences, others were in the exhibition hall. He maintained that space for the exhibition was completely sold out. When a reporter sought to know why the delegation from neighbouring Sri Lanka was minimal, Singh replied: "I cannot force people to come, I can only invite them." 
 
