MUMBAI: Demonetization seems to have helped   in Maharashtra. Of the Rs 13,558 crore of loans required for the rabi season, banks could disburse only about Rs 2,400 crore, or close to 18% of the total requirement, because of a shortage of cash. Also, there are restrictions on district co-operative banks (DCCBs). Officials said the crisis has given moneylenders an opportunity to get rid of defunct notes as loans were disbursed in old notes and they will be paid back in new notes.

 The rate of interest levied by moneylenders ranges from 24% to 120% per annum, depending on the loan amount and time period. In comparison, ban ks lend at an interest of 9-15% per annum.
 
 Of the amount disbursed, Rs 857 crore was given from DCCBs and the rest from commercial and private sector banks. Sowing this rabi season has been 120% of last year, and on 92% of the average area available for the rabi crop, which prompted increased borrowings from the private and informal sectors. About 45 lakh hectares is available for sowing in the state. Rabi sowing has almost come to an end. The season typically begins in October and the crop is harvested in March. The state government had allowed farmers to buy seeds and fertilisers using Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes, using Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes, which helped money lenders even more as their notes were absorbed in the market.
 
 “The area under rabi cultivation has gone up despite the small amount of   being disbursed. This has meant that funds have been provided from sources outside the formal banking sector. After demonetization, giving loans took a back seat in the state,“ said an official from the co-operation department.
 
 Demonetisation was announced around the time sowing had just picked up in Maharashtra. The receding monsoon was very good in the state--a favourable condition for the rabi crop, which depend on moisture in the soil. Following subsequent issues with the banking system, farmers borrowed at high rates from private money lenders.
 
 “With weather and soil water content just right for a good produce, farmers couldn't give up on the season due to a lack of bank loans, and so they resor ted to borrowing from moneylenders,“ said farmers' leader and activist  .
 
 But productivity may be affected. “Farmers haven't spent much on fertilisers due to the high interest rates, which will reduce productivity considerably,“ Jawandhia said. To reduce borrowings, far mers haven't taken insurance cover for fragile crops. Nevertheless, the deadline for insurance premium has been extended to mid-January, with the government trying to convince farmers to enrol for the scheme.
 
