NEW DELHI: The opposition is seeking to make an ideological point by fielding a candidate in the Presidential elections which seems tilted in favour of ruling BJP in view of its growing support among key regional parties besides its strength in Parliament and state assemblies.   supremo   will meet a bunch of “like-minded” parties over lunch on Friday to discuss the upcoming contest. 

 Top opposition leaders, including Sharad Pawar (NCP),   (TMC), Sitaram Yechury (CPM), Mayawati (BSP), Akhilesh Yadav (SP) and Lalu Prasad (RJD), are likely to attend the discussions at the Parliament annexe. In the absence of JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar, Sharad Yadav will join the huddle. “JD(U) is the prime mover of opposition unity. The CM is busy in   and the party would be represented. We have a stake in it,” party spokesman KC Tyagi said. 
 
 Sources said it was likely that the discussions would end with the formation of a “sub-committee” of senior leaders which can independently take actions regarding “any outreach from the government over Presidential elections” or about an opposition candidate. Badly marginalised in national politics amid the ascendant BJP graph, the opposition is seeking to make a grand ideological statement by planning a contest between “the idea of India” versus the “intolerant ideology”. 
 
 It is felt that fielding a candidate would convey a message to people. Many believe that a coordination between the “secular” opposition parties now would lay the ground for networking required for the 2019 elections. In the wake of BJP’s rejuvenated political position after the victory in UP, a “grand alliance” is seen as a pre-requisite for taking on the saffron party in national polls, leaders concede. That it would be a tricky task is evident from the baring of internal contradictions in the opposition camp over Presidential polls. The CPM is cut-up about having to brainstorm on the same side as TMC in the immediate aftermath of brutal police lathicharge on hundreds of Left workers in   this week.
 
