HYDERABAD:   leader   suffered gunshot wounds in a mysterious firing incident at his house in Film Nagar during the wee hours of Friday. 

 While doctors treating the 33-year-old said he is out of danger, the city police chief has formed special teams to crack the case.
 
 Vikram Goud, son of senior Congress leader and former minister Mukhesh Goud, has been living with his wife Shipali and two children at a three-storied rented house at Plot number 459, Road Number 86, Phase-3 of Film Nagar since the past nine months.
 
 At around 2am, Vikram returned home and woke up his wife at 2.30am, asking her to get ready to participate in an 'annadanam' program at the Haqim Baba dargah in Film Nagar. Vikram got ready by 3am and went to the hall to wait for his wife. At around 3.10 am, Shipali heard gun shots, followed by Vikram's screams.
 
 “I heard very loud sounds.He started shouting my name and calling me and I ran near him. He was just saying a person shot and went away. I called 108. As there was no response, I personally took him in the car and reached   at 3.30am,“ Shipali said in the complaint to the police.
 
 The Medico Legal Cases (MLC) register at Apollo Hospital, where Vikram was admitted, has recorded the time of medical examination as 3.35am. The document also mentioned that the victim had received two bullet injuries.
 
 “A bullet wound injury left arm entry , then exit and adjacent entry into chest wall. A bullet wound injury right arm entry and exit wound,“ stated the MLC register.
 
 Confirming the injuries, Banjara Hills inspector K Srinivas said that while the bullet that exited was found in the hall of Vikram's house, the other round was lodged in the spinal cord, behind the left ribs. Police also recovered the shells of two 7.65 mm rounds at the crime scene.
 
 The sniffer dogs brought to the crime scene as part of the investigation, went till the gate of the house and then came back and stood near the stairs in the house and then returned to the crime scene.
 
 City police chief M Mahendar Reddy , who also visited the crime scene, told media persons: “No weapon was found at the house and Vikram does not have an arms license. We have formed 10 special teams to solve the case.“
 
 The police registered a case under section 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC and the Arms Act.
 
