  , former   who passed away in Goa on Sunday evening after a cardiac arrest, held key positions in the Centre and state governments, with assignments in the economic, infrastructure, regulatory and social sectors, including the posts of defence and home secretary, in all of which he distinguished himself. 

 A 1956 batch IAS officer of Rajasthan cadre, he was one of the three or so out of 30-plus post-independence cabinet secretaries who carried with him the experience of being the chief secretary of a state. 
 
 After retirement, he represented India as ambassador to the US, and also served as governor of Gujarat. A grateful government conferred the title of   on him, which he richly deserved.
 
 Outwardly a jovial personality, Naresh carried a sharp and incisive intellect, brought deep thought into every issue, while being strong and prompt where action was required; he was the ideal civil servant. One has seen him take firm positions in different ministries, expressing his views freely and fearlessly, both in his verbal presentations as well as on paper. Soft spoken with much deliberation in his delivery, Naresh carried punch in every word that he uttered - nobody, his minister or his subordinates, could afford to take him lightly. He was superior in intellect and comprehension to most that he met, civil servants and politicians alike. He had a healthy ridicule and mild contempt for most politicians who headed his ministries (I knew that he had respect just for three or four politicians of the day). 
 
 He would, however, not be patronising to anyone, nor would he ever show any subservience. He knew that he was the reverse of the governance coin, on the other side of the politician; with true democratic spirit, he would cheerfully accept being overruled, while fully knowing that he was right. 
 
  depended on him implicitly, much as Chandragupta looked upon Chanakya. While Rao and Manmohan Singh were publicly recognised as the face of the 1991 reforms, few know that the two key persons behind the scenes, who played a critical role, included A N Verma, the principal secretary to Rao, and Naresh Chandra. 
 
  (The writer is a former cabinet secretary.) 
 
 
