Nagpur:   from Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan (BVM), Civil Lines has emerged as the City Champion of Classmate   Season 9. Prathamesh is now a potential candidate to represent the city at the national finals. However, a city winner does not automatically qualify for the National Finals. Only 16 students with the top 16 scores across the country qualify (purely on a score merit).

 One of the largest spelling competitions in the country, Classmate Spell Bee Season 9’s online semi-final was held in the city this week. The initial round of the competition received an outstanding response. An on-ground exercise was conducted across 26 schools in Nagpur where children were given spelling tests. The top 15 scorers from each school then competed in the city final. 
 
 The National Finals of the competition will be aired on The Discovery Channel, Discovery Kids and Discovery Tamil.
 
 Stressing the need to celebrate every child’s uniqueness, Shailendra Tyagi, chief executive, ITC’s Education and Stationery Products Business said, “Classmate Spell Bee Season 9 gives students an opportunity to identify and showcase their talents on a national platform.” The competition aims to reach out to more students across India through a school contact program, a mobile app and a dedicated website, he added. 
 
 This year, the competition focused to create a holistic educational experience for the participants. Specialized content was created for students through learning modules, tests, interactive blogs and contests. 
 
 Sumit Aggarwal, senior vice president and national head, activations, Entertainment Network (India) Limited said that Spell Bee endeavours to add value to a student’s development. “Spell Bee has grown beyond a competition. It reinstates the belief that our students can compete on an international level. The next few stages of the competition promise to be extremely exciting.” 
 
 Classmate Spell Bee Season 9’s National Champion will win a grand prize of Rs2,00,000 and a free trip to Washington DC, USA with a parent to witness Scripps National Spelling Bee. The 4 semi finalists will win a cash prize of Rs50,000 each. With an aim to encourage students to follow their hearts, Classmate designed and sponsored the grand prizes of the winner and the semi-finalists.
 
 The competition is powered by The Times of India while Times NIE is the education partner. Discovery Kids is the television partner and Victor Tango is the event partner.
 
 
