Eighty-year-old   CM  , who had hung his boots in 2013 only to return to the helm last year after his friend TR Zeliang stepped down under public pressure, currently finds his government reduced to a minority by internal dissidence. He tells Prabin Kalita he is ready to give up his post to diffuse the crisis but warns of dissolution of assembly. 

  What now, after the actions and reactions? 
 
 We are waiting for some developments at the resort at Kaziranga (in Assam where dissidents are camping) and if nothing happens by day after tomorrow, the only way out is to dissolve the assembly. We don't want to do that because of the ongoing peace talks for the final settlement. When there is a political crisis, the situation is disturbed but we want the solution under a normal situation. But if we are compelled that (dissolution of assembly) would be the last resort.
 
  How much support do you have? 
 
 Majority of the cabinet is with me-out of 12 only four have left (all 4 sacked). We are trying...we don't want anybody to destablize the constitutionally elected government illegally or unconstitutionally. Among the MLAs, I have 15 NPF legislators with me. There is also one BJP member but we are not counting him because we don't want to implicate BJP in this crisis.
 
  So you are a minority government... 
 
 Yes. A very bad minority. We expect some development to happen at Kaziranga.
 
  You and Zeliang are known to be very good friends. What went wrong? 
 
 I am also wondering. This whole crisis is because of TR Zeliang. 
 
  Did you promise to hand over charge to Zeliang three months after you became the CM last February? 
 
 I have come here for six months. I am not ambitious. I did not ask for this position myself. Only when he (Zeliang) failed to control the situation my party people requested me to take over and reluctantly I agreed. It is for the people to judge now.
 
  Do you see any rapprochement with Zeliang? 
 
 We have asked him to come and I am prepared to vacate this seat for him to take over. But, he has refused. Now we have to go for some other alternative and when there is no option, we know what to do.
 
  Why did Zeliang refuse to take over? 
 
 I don't know. Maybe he has some grudge against me.
 
  Some say the crisis started after you were set to contest the by-election to Northern Angami-I seat. 
 
 I am yet to decide on contesting the by-poll. He has been misguided and has some apprehension. I am not ambitious and I have already retired from electoral politics in 2013. Only my party wanted me to return to take responsibilities.
 
  Is giving charge to Zeliang an option or is it going to be a third person? 
 
 Zeliang taking charge is out of question now. If we get a consensus candidate we have an option, but I can't tell you anything more on this now.
 
  Is Neiphiu Rio connected with this crisis? 
 
 I think Rio is with Zeliang but I have no clear idea.
 
