Trichy: The successful implementation of micro-compost units in Trichy for recycling   into manure has got officials from New Delhi coming down here to learn about the model implemented here.

 A team from South Delhi Corporation and horticulture department visited the micro-compost units in Trichy to study the model for its possible replication in Delhi. The gas generated from these units is also used to power nearby Amma Unavagam at Viragupettai.
 
 The team also visited the bio-digester cum community kitchen where human waste from a public toilet is used to produce biogas which is used in community kitchens. 
 
 While Vellore Corporation was the first to introduce it,   was able to effectively implement it by engaging women self-help groups and convert it into a revenue generating model.
 
 Women self-help groups have been trained to sensitise residents to segregate waste. The wet waste goes to the micro-compost unit where it is converted into manure after a 45-day process. The dry and plastic waste collected is sold by the workers to wholesale traders for recycling and the revenue generated goes to the women engaged in the work.
 
 At a time when there is dearth of conservancy workers across civic bodies in the state, with Trichy Corporation being no exception, no additional workers have been engaged as waste is managed effectively through women SHGs. 
 
 It has become pivotal for the   to find an amicable solution for the management of over 1,000 tonnes of waste produced daily basis as dumping yards are filled up and there are no alternate spaces available. 
 
 “The way micro-compost units are handled by the Trichy Corporation in an organised way deserves appreciation. This would be an effective model to manage waste generated in New Delhi,” said K Kannan, executive engineer of Delhi Municipal Corporation. The community kitchen too has been a model which can prove effective in rural areas, he said. 
 
 The only constraint would be the identification of place in a city like Delhi which is congested with ever increasing population, added Kannan.
 
 
