THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With   claiming yet another human life at Pulluvila, it seems that the city corporation is not very keen with regard to effective implementation of the   in the city. 

 The health committee, which is already under fire for failure in implementing pre-monsoon cleaning drive, has again erred in ensuring regular payment for the veterinarian and dog-catchers of the ABC team inspite of the surging need to keep the programme alive in the city.
 
 Three dog-catchers employed by corporation at Rs 600 a day are awaiting salary for two months. These men, who set out for work as early as 6am in the morning and work till noon, have little time to rest as they have to find other menial jobs to make a living.
 
 “I go dishwashing at some hotels. That would fetch me Rs 300 a day. I have a family to run,” one of the dog-catchers said.
 
 One of them, who was admitted to   with illness, couldn't meet the expense of lab tests and got a voluntary discharge. Another two are neck deep in debts, borrowing money from whatever sources available to meet the educational needs of their children. “There is no one we can turn to anymore because we have already borrowed a lot of money and we can’t find a way to repay them,” says one of the dog-catchers.
 
 The health standing committee had earlier delayed renewal of contract of vets, para-medics and dog-catchers for almost four months before the matter appeared in the council meeting in April. The ABC team had worked without payment for four months and got a temporary reprieve in February. By March, things got worse again as they were denied salaries. Corporation officials said that it was a minor confusion as to which official should clear the bills which resulted in delay in payment of their salaries. While initially ABC project was supervised by corporation doctor, a new project was announced later for which another official was chosen as the head. The work bills of the staff got stuck in the confusion between old and new projects forcing the low-paid staff to literally go around asking others for money even after putting in hard labour for months.
 
 When TOI had reported the issue earlier, health standing committee chairman   had commented that there was never a practice to pay ABC team regularly.
 
 Mayor's office had to intervene last week to get things moving, but even on Tuesday nothing changed. The officials have reportedly asked the staff to resubmit their pass book and account details as the details have gone missing. Until May, the ABC team at city corporation has sterilized close to 1,400 dogs. The officials admit that ABC programme has to be continued without halt and it was imperative to run it in a professional manner. “It is unfortunate that we have to run from one desk to another just to get the money we deserve after a day’s toil at the vet hospital,” an ABC staff said.
 
