NAGPUR: A   of Mangesh Rangari, 38, a teacher by profession, was found in a ditch near a nullah in the vicinity of the   at Patankar chowk in the early hours of Saturday. 

 There were small sticks stuck inside the mouth of the deceased, whose rented house was situated within 100 metres from where his body was spotted. The victim’s scooter was found parked on the roadside in damaged condition.
 
 Though   have registered the case as accidental death, the cops are still probing the matter to rule out any conspiracy theory of murder behind the incident. 
 
 Rangari, father of two, had left his rented place on scooter on Thursday. The teacher was living alone for the last few days as his wife Anjali had gone to the victim’s native place near Bhandara. The neighbours had spotted Rangari leaving home but he was untraceable since then. 
 
 Family sources claimed that Rangari was having loans on him borrowed from private persons. It was also reliably learnt that Rangari was addicted to alcohol in the past but had recovered. Sources from Jaripatka police said there were several prescriptions and details of medicines found in his possession. The family members have, as of now, expressed that there could be a foul play behind the death but had no enmity. “The body seemed fresh. Though he had left home two days back, the death may have taken place few hours before it was spotted,” said a family member. 
 
 Sources from police said the scooter of the deceased was found abandoned on the roadside by local residents on Saturday evening when they had alerted Jaripatka police. The front portion of the scooter, especially the headlight, was damaged. There were some bigger stones found in the proximity of the scooter. The Jaripatka police, who had attended the spot, had towed away the abandoned vehicle without being able to spot the body in a ditch, which was around 500 meters away from the two-wheeler, in the night.
 
 It was in the early hours of the day that the morning walkers spotted the body before alerting the control room. Police could find some documents in the pocket of the deceased which helped them establish his identities and also contact the family members.
 
 A senior officer from Jaripatka police said that the documents of the vehicle suggested that it was purchased in Mouda. Jaripatka police had also contacted its Mouda counterparts in the rural trying to establish the identity of the deceased. 
 
 Police said some miscreants may have tried to drive away with the scooter by breaking the lock but later damaged the two-wheeler in frustration when they were unable to move it. Another theory of accident is also being probed by police. “The forensic experts have indicated that the victim was suffering from alcohol-consumption related disease. We have preserved his viscera for chemical analysis,” said an officer of Jaripatka police station. 
 
 There is also a question arising whether someone tried to mislead the cops by damaging the scooter to give the incident a twist of accident to cover up a bigger crime. Senior officials of the Jaripatka police have also stated that there was no apparent injury on the body of the deceased.
 
