Nagpur: The   ( ) has finally managed to get solutions for majority of the problems faced by them across various Government Medical Colleges (GMCs) in the state.

 The central MARD general secretary Dr Parag Narkhede at Mumbai told TOI that the organization had a successful meeting with the medical education minister Girish Mahajan who had very positive attitude. He said that the association had been demanding 700 days tuberculosis leave or maternity leave for the resident doctors since long. “The Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) should release a circular in this regard so that all colleges follow the rule universally,” said Dr Narkhede.
 
 For security related issues, a committee headed by former police commissioner Dixit should organize a meeting with the medical education director to resolve the issue of frequent attacks on residents. The meet also resolved that the medical education director should set up a grievance redressal cell.
 
 Regard the bond issue, MARD has been objecting that the specialists doctors are made to work as general medical officers and demanded that all senior resident doctors should be filled up immediately or the residents be released after 45 days of the duty. The demand was accepted.
 
 With regard to freeship in post-graduation, MARD demanded clear cut guidelines to remove the confusion between the medical education and social justice ministries. The minister agreed to the demand and promised to clarify the confusion at the earliest. The authorities involved in the issue have been asked to submit their clarifications.
 
 When the students take admissions in the PG course, they are not told anything about the recognition of the course from the   or  . They realize much later that they have taken admission for a non-recognized course. Hence, MARD demanded that the students should be told about the recognition status of the course and the demand was accepted.
 
 Since the colleges don’t get various grants, the resident doctors do not get their stipend on time. Hence the deans of all GMCs have been asked to ensure that the grants come on time and the resident doctors get paid on time.
 
 MUHS has been asked to study the issue of biometric attendance being opposed by MARD. Dr Narkhede said that, in principle, the association was not against biometric attendance but it was not possible in a 24-hours punching system. “The doctors who rush on emergency duties and stay there for over 12 hours don’t remember to punch the cards and they don’t even have time for doing so,” he said.
 
 
