It was a hot afternoon and the clock had just struck 3. As scheduled, we were at the rendezvous point — waiting to meet Dr  , the Lok Sabha MP from Thiruvananthapuram, soon a car rolled in and he stepped out. Dressed in a brick red kurta aptly complemented by a black bandhgala and the Indian flag pinned to his lapel, Shashi was in his usual self — charming and gentle.
During our conversation, we sought his opinion on a number of issues ranging from politics in university campuses and Prime Minister  , to of course, his rapport with Vice President of Congress,  . And the charismatic statesman leisurely obliged, sipping on his favourite cup of masala tea. Excerpts: 
 
 
 
 I believe that the issues I am raising are serious and they speak about two issues in our public environment. The narrative of nationalism must be reclaimed from those who narrow it down to a particular kind of religious chauvinism . To my mind nationalism is about the country, its freedom, identity and what the British have done to it, etc.
 And the second is that it has to be an inclusive nationalism. When I speak of 200 years of foreign rule, I mean the British, who ruled us for their benefits and they extracted resources for their incentives. But when Narendra Modi speaks of 2000 years of foreign rule, for me he is including people who came here from foreign countries and became us; contributed to our civilisation. Why should we consider them foreigners? So, here are two difference versions of nationalism, which I think are legitimate.
 
 
 
 When you are young you should think; you should experiment. It is only by trying sincerely to believe in a bad idea that you realise it’s bad. I don’t believe that trying to stifle freedom of thought on campuses is wise at all. And to me saying this is anti-national, that is anti-national; this is unacceptable and that seditious, is very unwise. Instead, what we should do is answer words with more words. So, when you look at all of it, I think you are doing a disservice to the climate of freedom in our democracy and to the spirit of free enquiry which is the basis of all university life.
  
 
 
 I don’t think so, because there is respect on certain positions. I made it very clear the basis on which I was supporting the Prime Minister’s Swachh Bharat campaign. First of all I saw it as a non-political initiative for the benefit of the country; I saw it very much in the line of succession from Gandhiji’s famous statement saying ‘sanitation is more important than independence’. 
 And the other issues that I designate Narendra Modi is that a symbolic clean up by itself isn’t enough as we need a fundamental solution to the problem. To do 
 serious Swachh Bharat we need to have more ambitious projects which only the central government can fund. Moreover, if this is a photo op then I don’t believe in it, I said that time. So, there is respect for his idea; respect for his office as the Prime Minister of the country. If he is asking you something, we should honour his wishes and all of that. But at the same time there is legitimate criticism on what has been done and the way it has been done.
 
 
 
 He is very receptive to honesty. So, when I speak to him honestly, there are no difficulties as such. Even in Hyderabad University I made an important point that there is actually a contest in this country between two styles of leadership. There is the Modi style, which is like the man on the white horse with the drawn sword; who is coming to solve everything all by himself; will use the sword and cut through the norms, that is what they are offering. On the other side there is the style that Rahul Gandhi offers, who says I don’t know all the answers; I am not even sure if I know all the questions but I will listen to you. You tell me what your problems are and, I, assisted by a deep bench strength of experience, knowledgeable, able and qualified people, will to find the answers and solve them for you. Hence it is not just one individual against another but a contest of leadership styles. 
 
