Ever since he made his debut with Kadal, Gautham   and Karthik have been asked the question, ‘When are you both going to act together?’ And now, here, we have an answer. The father-son duo will be sharing screen space for the first time in director Thiru’s upcoming film, which will be produced by  .

 Says Thiru, “It is a story revolving around a father and son, and then gets into action mode in the second half.   and Karthik sir play a father and son, who have a friendly relationship, in a middle-class household. Gautham plays a boxer, while Karthik sir plays a government officer.”   adds that he is trying to recreate the Karthik of the 90s with this character.
 
 Talking to us about why he chose this film to act with his son, Karthik says, “After the release of Kadal, we got a few offers to do films as a father and son onscreen. But Gautham and I were very particular that we shouldn’t be acting together just for the sake of it and the script had to be really extraordinary. I’m also directing a movie, and I was planning that maybe we will work together in my second or third directorial. But this came as a total surprise. Generally, the two of us don’t discuss scripts, but one day, Gautham told me that he had listened to a great script from Thiru and asked me if I could hear it. I was very impressed after listening to it; it was a brilliant script, the best I had listened to in recent times. I immediately asked Thiru and Dhananjayan, ‘When are we shooting?’”
 
 Gautham says that he is both, nervous and excited, about acting alongside his father. “Generally, I can act alongside anyone, but when it is your own family, then you get conscious. I will be acting with a legend, who also happens to be my father. So, of course, there is a little bit of nervousness. So far, we have kept our careers separate, but now, we will be observing each other at work from up close throughout the shoot. But more than that, I’m quite excited that I would be working with him finally,” says Gautham.
 
 He reveals that the relationship that the father and son share is going to be the main focus of the film, and “it is actually going to be somewhat similar to how our relationship is in real life, though with some cinematic elements added.” Since he plays a boxer, Gautham had gone to Bangkok to train for three weeks. “Boxing is not really the crux of the film, but that is something to identify my character with. As a boxer, my body language has to be different. I know a few people in   who are into this, and I went there to train. Of course, nobody can become a boxer in three weeks. I just learnt the basic boxing movements,” he says.
 
 Dhananjayan informs that the rest of the cast and crew, including the heroine, will be finalised in the coming days, and that they are planning to start the shoot by the first week of November. “We will be shooting the scenes with Karthik sir and Gautham first, because they have a lot of scenes together,” he says.
 
 
