HYDERABAD: Several   are waiting for the state cabinet to clear the decks for the   so that they can bag university status which comes with many benefits.

 Earlier this month, the cabinet sub-committee in its meeting held in the Secretariat discussed the need to establish private universities in Telangana. While the committee is yet to decide on the rough draft of the bill, private   are all for the move.
 
 University status will give these colleges greater freedom regarding  ,  , the ability to issue their own degree, among other key factors.
 
 "If the bill is passed, we will approach the government to convert Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Technology and Chaitanya Bharthi Institute of Technology (CBIT) into one big university. We have the required infrastructure, teacher and student strength to be considered as a private university," said Malakonda Reddy, president of CBIT Society. He added that although the management is keen to upgrade the colleges into a private varsity, it will have to look into the legalities spelled out in the bill.
 
 A majority of colleges in the race have been given autonomous status by the University Grants Commission. "Being an autonomous college, we have our own syllabi and examinations. Only the intake and the fee structure is controlled by state government bodies. If we upgrade into a private university, even the fee structure and admission will be decided by us, giving us an edge over others," said Dr Palle Rajeshwar Reddy, chairman of Anurag Group of Institutions which runs CVSR College of Engineering.
 
 At present, Telangana has a few independent institutions such as Gitam, ICFAI, BITS Pilani, the Indian School of Business and Mahindra Ecole.
 
 While engineering colleges are keen to upgrade themselves into private varsities, industry experts are of the opinion that it is the Telangana government's failure to release fee reimbursement dues on time that has tempted several institutions to consider upgrading into a private varsity. "Colleges are not getting funds to run their institutions from the government. It is clear that the government is allowing private varsities in the state in order to cut down on the funds allotted for the fee reimbursement scheme. Students enrolled in private varsities will not be funded by the government," said an educationalist.
 
 
