Cops of   are not only discharging their policing duties, these days they have also turned into protectors of the birds in their neighbourhood as cold weather plays truant. We tell you all about this interesting tale of compassion…

 
 
 The policemen have recently put up several birdhouses on the trees in the vicinity. One of the cops,  , says, “Over the past few days, some birds have made their homes in these shelters. When we see them carrying twigs or grass, we are as excited as them and share this information with one another. We also share our rice and rotis with these beautiful friends.”
 
 
 
 Sonegaon Police station is located amidst a green and serene arena and it is in close proximity to the   Lake, where a lot of birds, including the migratory ones, find shelter during the winter season. To protect them from harsh weather, the cops have put up many bird houses at the trees. In-charge of the police station,  , shares, “It is so satisfying to see at least some of the birds find a cozy home in this chilling weather. There are so many colourful birds who are making nests in these birdhouses now and it gives us immense pleasure to be around them.”
 
 
 
 “To begin with, we have kept 10 bird houses. And seeing the way, birds are responding to these warm and inviting shelters, we will add 10 more by January 26. Later, we may extend this endeavour to outside the police station too,” says Pande. He goes on to add, “We plan to turn these shelters into permanent homes for the neighbourhood birds. Even though some of the migratory birds may leave Nagpur, there will be a lot of resident birds who would need these shelters in the severe summer months in the city.”
 
 
 The man, who has started this movement to protect the birds by donating birdhouses to various institutions,  , reveals rather shyly, “I make these bird houses and give them to various institutions and individuals so that I can give something back to this world. Till now I have donated more than 500 birdhouses in the city. Birds can’t express their agony. They are an integral part of our eco-system, so this is my way of doing my bit for the nature.”
 
