LUCKNOW: First of six siblings to have entered into politics,   during   and now   (Independent charge)   began his   as Thana Bhawan coordinator of Bajrang Dal. That was 1986. He then shifted to Haridwar for studies and became Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha, Haridwar president in 1992. Deputy chief minister Dr Dinesh Sharma was the BJYM state chief then. 

 Rana then shifted back to Thana Bhawan and had various responsibilities from RSS between 1993 and 1998. In 2009, he was made the BJP's president of Muzaffarnagar-Shamli districts. 
 
 While remaining the district chief, he was given BJP ticket from Thana Bhawan in 2012. He won the election by a narrow margin of 265 votes. The intricacies of the seat could be gauged by the fact that the BJP candidate could get only 18,000 votes in by-election when Rajnath Singh was chief minister in 2000.
 
 A Thakur by caste, Thana Bhawan's caste dynamics had not been in his favour, however, by now he had emerged as pro-Hindutva figure from West UP after Akhilesh government slapped NSA on him. Though the high court gave him clean chit, two cases of inciting riots are still pending against him.
 
 Though charge-sheets in both the cases are yet to be filed, Rana told TOI that there were no criminal cases against him when he first contested election in 2012. However, the tag of Muzaffarnagar riot-accused earned him the favour from the BJP leadership that decided to appoint him as UP BJP's vice-president.
 
 By now a face of pro-Hindutva in West UP, Rana this time won the seat by a respectable margin of around 20,000 votes. That's not the only feat. He is the first MLA in last 54 years to have won from Thana Bhawan for consecutive two terms.
 
 Similarly, thanks to to Rajasthan governor and former UP CM Kalyan Singh that his grandson, 25-year-old Sandeep Singh not only became the first-time MLA from his family borough of Atrauli but also is now a minister of state in Adityanath Yogi cabinet. He too was sworn in as minister of state just like 12 others on Sunday.
 
 Son of Etah MP Rajveer Singh, who even till date has been harvesting political benefits on whatever his father Kalyan Singh had won, Sandeep Singh has also become the youngest minister in Yogi cabinet. 
 
 
