NOIDA: A day after protests over attendance row at   turned ugly, 692 students received their   on Sunday. The students, however, had to sign an undertaking saying that they will have to submit a refundable amount if they fail to meet the required attendance criteria in the next semester too. 

 “In case I am found deficient of prescribed aggregate attendance, after due verification, by less than 50%, or less than 65% and greater than or equal to 50%, I will be required to submit a refundable additional security deposit of Rs 30, 000 and Rs 20, 000, respectively, as the case may be,” reads the undertaking.
 
 TOI reported on April 29 that around 300 varsity students held a protest in the campus on Saturday against the university for charging money from the debarred students for getting their admit cards. Members of two student outfits - Congress-affiliated   (National Students Union of India) and RSS-affiliated   (Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad ) also joined the protest.
 
  The protesters claimed students whose attendance was less than 75%, were asked to deposit Rs 10,000-Rs 30,000 to get the admit cards for the semester exams slated to begin on Monday. The stir turned ugly when outsiders joined in and one of them was beaten up by bouncers.
 
 On Sunday, 692 students, including those who had fulfilled attendance rules but could not get admit cards due to the protest, received their admit cards. Around 300 students were debarred on pretext of low attendance. “Only 170 students have not got their admit cards till now. They have been called on Monday morning,” Ajit Kumar, varsity spokesperson, said.
 
 “The students have been given three months to meet the attendance criteria. If they fail to meet this eligibility criteria, the money deposited by them will be used for student benefit fund for helping students with financial need or any student sponsored welfare activity,” Kumar said.
 
 It may be recalled that in an earlier, the varsity had said in an undertaking that the amount deposited for not meeting the attendance criteria was “non-refundable”. Even as students were slightly relieved after receiving their admit cards, they said that they did not want to ‘pay for their admit cards’.
 
 
