MUMBAI: Almost nine months after the state government lifted its stay, the  's controversial pay-and-park policy is yet to be implemented in the residential areas of south Mumbai.

 In January , the state government had lifted the stay on the policy , which ran into a huge controversy after it was cleared by the then SenaBJP dominated BMC in 2015.
 
 In April this year, around 29 housing societies from Colaba and Cuffe Parade approached the BMC to implement the residential parking policy in their areas. However still they are awaiting for a nod. Bella Shah from My Dream Colaba, an Advance Locality Management (ALM) group, said, “Residents are willing to pay a nominal price if they are guaranteed of a parking space.At present we find that the space outside our buildings is being used by taxis, buses and defunct vehicles“ The resident of 4th Pasta lane,  , added, “We plan to once again approach the authorities.“
 
 Meanwhile, corporator from Colaba Makrand Narwekar (BJP) said if the   policy is implemented it could help in easing the traffic situation in the ward. “Instead of commercial vehicles from outside being allowed to park around residential buildings, it would be better if the BMC permits residents to park their vehicles itself.The residential pay and park scheme is already in force in some of the buildings in Cuffe Parade and has been functioning very smoothly ,“ said Narwekar.
 
 BMC officials said they have received applications from the housing societies.“We have forwarded the applications to the joint commissioner of police­traffic. One of the pre-conditions is that there should be an NOC from their end,“ said assistant municipal commissioner of A ward Kiran Dighavkar.
 
 When contacted, joint commissioner of police ­traffic   said the applications for NOC are pending with them. “We would be looking at the applications shortly . We need to check several aspects and whether giving the permissions will impact anyone else,“ he said.
 
 However, there are a few resident associations that are opposed the residential pay and park policy .
 
 Meanwhile, apart from the residential pay and park policy , the BMC is in the process of calling for tenders for pay and park contractors at 92 other on street parking lots across Mumbai.
 
