Newly elected president of Mohali Industry Association 
  has said, small scale industry in Mohali is hoping for a revival of its condition with the introduction Goods and Services Tax (GST) which brings commodities under universal   across the nation. Soon after taking over as the president of MIA, Chhabra spoke to 
 on his priorities and challenges ahead...

 
 
 
 We will focus on skilled manpower availability in Mohali. Skill development training in the fields of VMC/ welding/ plating/ casting/ forging will be the major focus in the near future. The main idea is to encourage the youth especially those who cannot afford to get such training. Then, we will also absorb them in the industry or help them in setting up their own units in Mohali. 
 
 
 
 
 The major challenges are the availability of land and exorbitant land prices which has discouraged the young entrepreneurs to set up industry in Mohali. It is the small scale industry which is generally termed as backbone of industrial sector supported by one or two large scale industry and here in Mohali, we lack both. It is not possible for small time entrepreneur to first invest in land and then raise the working capital for running a manufacturing unit in Mohali. 
 
 
 
 
 Making commodity-wise cluster development of the manufacturing units will benefit the industry in Mohali. Like bath-fitting manufacturers have made their own cluster. Secondly, we have 4 lakh acres of land under forest cover for which we request the government to find out ways to allotment vacant forest land to set up industrial land bank. The industrial sector pays major chunk of property tax which is spent on residential developments and industrial areas are neglected. We want the government to spend at least 50% of the property tax collected from industrial units on industrial area.
 
 
 
 Special Economic Zones (SEZ) must be set up in Punjab which will discourage small scale industrialists’ urge to shift to nearby states which offer SEZ. This will also encourage new entrepreneurs to set up manufacturing units in Mohali. Units like Quark City, Mahindra and other such large scale units can bring about more investments in Mohali. 
 
 
 
 
 There are many factors apart from exorbitant land prices such as no subsidy by government, no bigger units supporting ancillary, tax policies which have forced older industrialists to shift their bases from Mohali to other affordable places. Shortage of land is also another factor on larger perspective because of which many industrialists shifted primarily to  .
 
 
