SURAT: For the residents of  , the festival of kites — Uttrayan — is incomplete without the signature dish called ‘undhiyu’ made from papdi or green bean. Surat’s   was famous for its green bean, but the rapid expansion of the area, which is also known as the diamond hub, endangered the very existence of the traditional crop. Still, Surtis are getting the regular supply of the papdi during the festival season. Thanks to the farmers in the coastal belt of Olpad taluka for giving a new lease of life to the endangered traditional crop of Surti papdi. 

 In the last few years, over a dozen coastal villages have started cultivating Surti papdi in abundance. An estimated 500 acres of land in these villages are under the cultivation of green bean, popularly known as Kartargam ni papdi.
 
 The reason that Surti papdi is world-famous is because of its distinct quality and taste. It is a fresh green, tender pod with only three soft, tiny beans within. Its texture is velvety, cooks quickly and it has a strong fragrance. Primarily a winter vegetable, its heat warms up the cloth that farmers tie it up in to take it to the market.
 
 If farmers are to be believed, its seeds were first brought to Sandhiyer village in Olpad from Katargam some one-and-a-half-decade ago. It was around this time when the cultivation of papdi in Katargam was hit following encroachment of alluvial farmlands by land sharks gobbling up Surat’s built heritage and eradicating its traditional crops.
 
 For few years, farmers in Sandhiyer cultivated Surti papdi, but soon shifted to aquaculture farming. 
 
 It was from here that the farmers in Kapasi, a coastal village tucked on the periphery of Olpad taluka thought of cultivating the Surti papdi. 
 
 Today, Kapasi village, which is bestowed with a range of small hillocks, is a major producer of Surti papdi. Over 300 acres of land in Kapasi is under papdi cultivation. The sowing starts in the monsoon season and the crop is ready in four months, before Uttarayan. 
 
 A Surti papdi farmer in Kapasi village,   said, “Kapasi is an ideal location for Surti papdi cultivation. During monsoon, the excess water flows down the hillocks, which is appropriate for the papdi crop. We do not have to irrigate the fields as the crop gets its supply from the earth surface. The crop is ready before Uttarayan when we harvest and sell.”
 
 This year, Patel has sold off his papdi crop from his 10-acre farm to some wholesale traders in APMC market. He sold the crop for Rs 400 per 20 kg, whereas the retail price of Surti papdi in the vegetable market is over Rs 150 per kilogram. 
 
 After Kapasi, Surti papdi is cultivated in the villages namely Kuvat, Mirzapor, Kudiyana, Pinjrat, Kansla, Kachol, Saras, Admor and Lavacha. 
 
 Farmer leader   said, “It’s the farmers of Olpad taluka who have given a new lease of life to Katargam’s desi papdi. Had they not taken up the farming, the Surti papdi would have become extinct.”
 
 Hitesh Thakkar, a farsan shop owner in Adajan, says,, “Undhiyu is incomplete without Surti papdi. In the absence of Katargam ni papdi, we procure directly from the villages in Olpad. The flavor of undhiyu is at its best only when it is cooked with Surti papdi.”
 
 
