NEW DELHI: At the  , traffic seemed to be moving more smoothly soon after TOI’s report on the massive inconvenience caused to commuters due to lanes being jammed by toll-paying trucks. 

 One lane had been reserved for non-commercial vehicles. But for a more permanent solution, DEP Tolls LLP, the company collecting the toll on behalf of the municipal corporations, Noida Authority, the DND Flyway operator and Noida Police met two day after the report and decided to shift the operations from the temporary booths on the DND Flyway to the existing toll infrastructure in order not to impede the movement of traffic.
 
 “We will reserve two of the 32 toll lanes for this just past the border so that tax collection takes place in the area under Delhi jurisdiction,” said Love Kumar, SSP, Gautam Budh Nagar. The appearance of new boards indicated the   and environment compensation charge will be collected at the toll plaza soon.
 
 When TOI visited the border on Tuesday night, there was some improvement in the  . Also, Moti, the brown dog that chased cars, was nowhere to be seen. Manoj Beniwal, who newly took charge of the zonal toll collection on Tuesday, said he did not know anything about Moti. “Perhaps the team deployed here earlier took the dog away along with them,” he ventured, pointing out that men TOI had seen in the earlier visit were no longer at DND.
 
 Kalindi Kunj: Middle of the path solution
 
 Waving his new, bright red, traffic safety baton lamp, a toll agent at the   border revealed, “We have received directions to leave the middle lane for cars.” But eyeing the stretch of traffic past the Okhla barrage towards UP, he added, “However, some rowdy truck drivers still occupy it and create a jam. There is only so much we can do.”
 
 When TOI revisited the border with UP at Kalindi Kunj it saw the toll tax company had deputed two men to direct trucks to use only two of the three lanes, leaving the middle one for non-toll-paying vehicles. The threatening sticks that the bouncers carried on the earlier visit had disappeared, but the musclemen were present, their faces hidden behind cloth pieces.
 
 The policemen there said they had seen some change for the better, but the snarl on the other side of the border had worsened with these measures. Crossing the border still took over 20 minutes, the same as earlier. No wonder Surender Chauhan, a non-commercial car owner, grumbled, “I can’t see any change.”
 
 Ghazipur: Lane opened up for non-toll vehicles
 
 When TOI reached the   border on Wednesday night, though the usual traffic jams had not disappeared, one lane was free for the use of vehicle that did not have to pay the entry and green charges. The “enforcers” with PVC pipes in their hands that TOI had encountered in the earlier visit had also disappeared.
 
 The operations at the toll booths were being managed by senior officials. Perhaps due to this, the mayhem in the name of collection of toll had reduced to an extent. The service road adjacent to the toll road was being used by lighter vehicles.
 
 However, trucks with destinations outside the capital still grappled with the problem of find space to turn around. As a result they were being allowed to enter the city after paying the mandatory green fees.
 
 Some truck drivers also claimed they were not given tax counterfoils. “At times, the toll agents say they have run out of paper,” complained truck driver Madho Singh. This leaves the truckers at risk of being booked by traffic cops after entering Delhi.
 
 Sirhaul: Messy as usual
 
 When TOI drove to the toll barrier at   on the Gurgaon-Delhi border, it found no changes from the earlier occasion. There were groups of truckers sitting on the road playing cards. They had reached the border before the stipulated time of 11pm for entry into Delhi and were whiling away the hours, ignoring the growing traffic mess caused by their parked vehicles. A toll official said that the situation would not change unless the entire NCR turned into a no-entry zone before 11pm.
 
 (With inputs from Shafaque Alam, Paras Singh, Somreet Bhattacharya, Bagish Jha)
 
