MUMBAI: In probably the first case of its kind in India, a 31-year-old businessman has moved the   seeking to have his year-old   as he was born a girl. His plea is that the marriage solemnised a year after his   remains unconsummated, and thus void. 

 His wife, too, has moved a magistrate’s court against him and his family under the   to protect her rights as a wife. The 29-year-old fashion designer has claimed Rs 1 lakh a month as maintenance and an alternative residence in south Mumbai. 
 
 The question before the family court in Bandra is whether a marriage between a woman and a woman-turned-man is valid or void under the Hindu Marriage Act. Last week, the court posted the matter for hearing after the summer vacation as neither the wife nor her lawyer appeared before it.
 
 The businessman underwent a sex reassignment surgery a year before the December 2015  . He said that even when younger, he “always felt like a boy trapped in a girl’s body”. 
 
 His case is that he went under the knife when the girl he was in love and in a relationship with for 11 years advised it so that she could introduce him to her parents as her boyfriend who she wanted to marry. She had also signed the consent form for the surgery as a witness in hospital, is his plea filed in the court in January.
 
 The surgery, says his petition filed through advocate Rita Bhatia, removes the women’s reproductive organs and replaces it with male organs, for transformation into a “male personality” but with “sexual restrictions”. His wife—whose fashion designing course he claims to have paid for—was “fully aware that she was entering a void matrimony with a person who may not be able to perform normally like a man”, is his plea. 
 
 The wife’s plea, filed through advocate Nazneen Khatri, however is that theirs is a lawful Hindu marriage. Her case is that they met 12 years ago at a friend’s wedding and “became friends”. She also says that after being in a “seven-year relationship with him”, she learnt that he was “not a boy’’ and wanted a “sex-change surgery” to become a man. She said she broke up with him but he pursued her and convinced her about the surgery, and she “agreed to get married to him after his operation”. Her complaint, however, also says that “after his operation, he started forcing her to marry”.
 
 In her complaint filed in December 2016 against her husband, parents-in-law, sister-in-law as well his cousin and an aunt, she alleged that he would vent his “frustration at being physically incapable” of an intercourse and ill-treat her. He used to doubt her and didn’t allow her to work, she alleged. 
 
 His petition also names a man, who he claims is her friend. He also alleged that she began threatening him last year with filing a domestic violence case.
 
 His plea invokes section 11 of the Hindu Marriage Act, which empowers courts to declare a marriage to be null and void or invalid right from inception, and has no legal sanctity as a marriage. It is different from a divorce plea or order, which is a decree that nullifies or terminates a valid marriage.
 
 A marriage is void in law if one of the parties was already married or if it is a marriage between two persons who fall within degrees of prohibited relationships or between direct lineal ascendants to the third degree, known as a ‘sapinda’.
 
