PATIALA: The inmates of   continue to use   from behind bars even though the   claims to have put in place foolproof security measures in the wake of the sensational, November 27 jailbreak in which   (KLF) chief Harminder Singh Mintoo and five gangsters had escaped.

 The authorities have seized 22 mobiles phones — four from Nabha and 18 from Patiala — since the jailbreak. The four mobile phones from Nabha prison were seized on February 26. A same number of SIMs were also seized during a check. In Patiala jail, where Mintoo is lodged at present, authorities seized two mobile phones from two inmates on February 12.
 
 Alarmed by the seizure and Mintoo’s presence in the prison, police had produced him before a court and sought his police custody, suspecting that he could have been involved in the mobile phones being used in the prison.
 
 The biggest seizure in the Patiala jail was on January 7. During an inspection, authorities seized eight mobile phones. Nearly a month later, on February 8, the jail authorities had found more such devices inside the prison.
 
 In the month following the Nabha jailbreak, four mobile phones were seized from inmates lodged in Patiala jail. While a mobile phone and two SIM cards were seized on December 23, three such devices were found on December 1.
 
 When contacted, Patiala jail superintendent Bhupinderjit Singh Virk said manning 93 acres of jail premises was a hard task and it was difficult to check smuggling of such devices completely because people threw mobile phones over the prison walls. “But strict action had been taken against jail employees who have been found to be helping inmates get cellphones. We have dismissed 10 staffers in the past four years,” he said.
 
 No accountability in FIRs
 
 Though jail authorities claim to have a no-tolerance policy towards staffers aiding inmates smuggle mobile phones into prisons, the FIRs that have been registered in these cases reflect a different picture. All such FIRs, accessed The Times of India, carry similar information and no jail staffers have been mention in any of them.
 
 
