Chandigarh: Bholath MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira was unanimously chosen by Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) as the new leader of the opposition on Thursday. He replaces senior lawyer and Dakha MLA H S Phoolka after the latter stepped down from the post to focus on the 1984 Sikh riot victims’ court cases.

 At a meeting convened by him in Delhi at 4 pm, party’s national convener Arvind Kejriwal took one on one feedback from each of the 20 party legislators from Punjab and later proposed Khaira’s name, which was accepted by those present without any opposition. This, despite Phoolka suggesting the names of co-president Aman Arora, journalist-turned-politician Kanwar Sandhu, besides Khaira as possible replacements.
 
 Apart from a large section of NRI supporters of the party, AAP’s alliance partners Lok Insaf Party’s (LIP) Bains brothers (Simarjeet Singh Bains and Balwinder Singh Bains) too threw their weight behind Khaira, which worked in his favour. The meeting with Kejriwal was earlier scheduled for last week but was later postponed. In the meantime, the MLAs reportedly discussed the matter and the consensus emerged over Khaira’s name.
 
 After the meeting, Khaira said he aimed at the revival of the party ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and despite any differences in the past, the state leadership would work unite to take on the Congress and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). “The Congress graph is already going down and Sukhbir Singh Badal’s attempts to infuse life into the SAD cadres will not succeed,” he said.
 
 Khaira’s appointment was welcomed by Phoolka, Arora and president of state unit Bhagwant Mann. “Khaira has already been playing an active role in the Vidhan Sabha and he will do a good job leading the party in the house,” said Mann. Arora added that Khaira’s name was unanimously agreed upon by the MLAs.
 
 Even though Arora had contested elections from Sunam on a Congress ticket in the past, Khaira is the only AAP legislator from Punjab who has been an MLA before. He has represented Bholath as a Congress MLA in the past and is known as a firebrand leader who took on the Akalis.
 
 Khaira was earlier hopeful of being appointed the head of party’s state unit and Mann was chosen instead and Khaira had to be content with the post of chief whip.
 
 On July 11, Phoolka had resigned from the post of leader of opposition in the Punjab assembly to continue appearing in courts for the 1984 anti-Sikh riot victims. Phoolka had to resign after the Delhi Bar Council disallowed him from appearing for the victims in several cases citing that he enjoyed an office of profit.
 
 Apart from party’s MLAs, MPs Mann and Sadhu Singh were also present in the meeting.
 
 
