KOCHI: The Sacred Heart School, Thevara, has started summer classes for students from classes IX, X and Plus Two for the next academic year on Wednesday. The school got approval from the CBSE regional office to go ahead with the classes.

 Earlier this year, the school authorities had approached the   high court seeking permission to conduct classes in summer. 
 
 The court in its order on March 17 said that the school can conduct summer classes provided they have parent teachers association’s (PTA) approval. A consent letter from the PTA was forwarded to the CBSE regional office to give approval to conduct summer classes in May. 
 
 On April 22, the Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights ( ) had passed an order suggesting that the general education department must “stop all vacation classes in the state in accordance with the provision in Rule 1 Chapter VII Kerala Education Rules”, which suggests that “all schools shall be closed for summer vacation every year on the last working day of March and reopened on the first working day of June, unless otherwise notified by the director.” 
 
 “The PTA readily agreed for vacation classes in May as they know it is the only way for us to complete the syllabus on time,” said Fr   M, principal of the school.
 
 Shoba Koshy, chairperson of KeSCPCR, said that the order was passed with a larger picture in mind. 
 
 “There are several schools that started holding classes immediately after the previous academic year ended. Several schools did not provide drinking water to their students. Even the washrooms did not have water,” she said. 
 
 She added that she agrees with the court’s decision suggesting that the court has placed a significant responsibility upon the parents to ensure that all facilities were made available to students before summer classes commence. 
 
 TPM  , president of   said: “A school must be evaluated individually upon their facility to provide summer classes and it should not be a blanket restriction.”
 
