VISAKHAPATNAM: The landmine blast on Sunki ghat road recently and killing of a ward member in Mattili block in Malkangiri district, Odisha, on Friday by Maoists is part of a series of attacks planned by naxals to avenge the Ramaguda encounter where 31 Maoists were killed, say cops. 

 The landmine blast at the Sunki ghat road was well planned and executed by the Reds, sources said. Cops of both Odisha and Andhra Pradesh suspect that   area committee led by Andruu, Narayanapatna area committee led by Chaitanya alias Aruna and also the Maoists military PLGA team third CRC company were involved in the action. The main role was played by the Nandapur Area Committee, the sources said. 
 
 According to the sources, generally, Maoists never attack unarmed cops, but they did it at Sunki ghat road in a desperate attempt to boost the morale of the cadres who were losing confidence after the Ramaguda encounter on October 24, 2016. 
 
 “The victims were all newly recruited cops who got jobs through a court direction and were going for training. Naxals had knowledge about the movement of the cops from the starting point at Koraput. They planted the landmine under a culvert on the highway that was busy with vehicular movement. Hitting the target in such a manner shows that it was a pre-planned execution,” a senior police officer of Odisha told TOI. 
 
 The Odisha cops missed the train a day before their journey and therefore took the minivan that bore the police nameplate, the sources said. The naxals tracked the cops from Koraput on mobile phones till the network was available. However, at the incident spot, mobile signals were not available and hence the Maoists used wireless sets. 
 
 “Maoists knew that the minivan was coming. They ignited wires to detonate the landmine by using a flash. They knew exactly that the bus carrying the newly recruited drivers did not have weapons. Usually, when naxals attack cops they loot the arms. They also fire at those who survive the attack. But, here nothing like that happened. There were no arms and no firing on the injured persons. This shows the Maoists had knowledge of every detail,” a senior police officer analysed. 
 
 Cops of Odisha and AP have learnt that members of a wedding entourage noticed three people carrying weapons going down the ghat after the incident, sources said. As per the inputs, around 40 to 50 Maoists including 30 women cadres participated in the action. 
 
