MUMBAI:   will employ 19% of the   in the country by 2018, and remain the top employer in this sector, according to the   ( ).

 Flexi jobs in the state are expected to rise by 55% between 2015 to 2018, from 3.6 lakhs to 5.6 lakhs, according to a 2016 ISF survey. Flexi jobs refer to short term contracts in the formal sector, as opposed to permanent employment. The ISF is the apex body representing the flexi staffing industry in the county.
 
 The bulk of flexi jobs in the state are in logistics, transport and communications as well as the banking, financial services and insurance sectors. Infrastructure, construction and energy as well as IT and ecommerce services also generate short-term jobs in the state, the ISF survey shows.
 
 An internal survey among ISF members for the first quarter of 2017 showed more than 18,000 flexi-jobs being created, mainly in the sectors of logistics, transport, infrastructure, and banking and financial services. At least 25% of these flexi jobs in the state will be in the accounting, administrative and clerical spheres. Engineering, techni cal jobs, human resources and sales will the next popular flexi jobs in the first quarter of 2017.
 
 Pune, Mumbai and Nagpur, as well as Thane and Navi Mumbai, will be the top destinations for flexi jobs in the state in the first quarter of 2017, the survey shows. “Flexi jobs are rising because this type of employment addresses the needs of the economy. Short-term employment is rising in a scenario where one cannot predict whether opportunities will last in the long run,“ says Suchita Dutta, executive director of ISF.
 
 However, she said flex jobs were not replacing permanent jobs. “Flexi jobs are drawing job-seekers from the informal sector into the formal sector,“ she said. Maharashtra has generated the bulk of flexi jobs in the country because it has established hubs for manufacturing and banking and financial services, she said.
 
 The ISF has been pushing for labour law reform, especially within the Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act 1970. “Since the process of obtaining licences under the Act has been so bureaucratic, the bulk of contract workers are unlicensed and vulnerable to exploitation,“ said Dutta.
 
