MUMBAI:   still waiting for   seats in top colleges were left high and dry on Friday when the   was announced as the   for arts and commerce in many such institutions went up. This happened because these colleges had fewer than 20 seats on offer after the second round, and several high-scorers chose them as first preference for the third round.

 The third merit list was announced a day ahead of schedule giving students an extra day for confirming admissions. Students can do so till 5 pm on August 1.
 
 “Arts and commerce now have more career choices for students as compared to science. The demand is shifting. For the past few days, we have been receiving queries from high-scoring students who hadn’t opted for our college in the previous rounds for arts. This has increased our cut-offs,” said Ashok Wadia, principal,  , Churchgate, where the arts and commerce cut-offs went up in the third list while the science cut-off dropped to 80.6%, a percent lower than in the last round. There were 46 vacancies in the science stream as compared to 13 and nine in the commerce and arts.
 
 Similarly at  , Fort, the arts cut-off was 93.5%, only marginally down from 93.8% in the second list. But there were only two vacancies for this round. The arts cut-off of Ruia College, Matunga increased to 93.33% from 93.2% in the second round. 
 
 Out of the 47,956 students who were allotted seats in this round, 9,554 got their top choice.
 
 The science stream cut-offs however, saw a dip in most colleges due to the higher number of vacancies. 
 
 Non-minority colleges are hopeful of cut-offs going down in the fourth list on August 6. “Though arts stream has only six seats left in the open category, about 50 are still vacant in the caste-based quotas. If there are no new applicants for these categories before the fourth and last round, these seats will be merged with general category and the arts cut off will come down,” said Vidyadhar Joshi, vice principal, VG Vaze College, Mulund. 
 
 “The top colleges are getting over 100 applications for two seats, so the cut-offs will remain high at these places. For the last round, students must be very careful while making selections to ensure they aren’t left without a seat,” said BB Chavan, deputy director of education, Mumbai.
 
