CHANDIGARH: The Haryana government on Wednesday directed the deputy commissioners to prepare a list of those injured during Jat quota agitation in February last year. Additional chief secretary (home) Ram Niwas conveyed this to all deputy commissioners (DCs) and superintendents of police (SPs) during video conferencing held in the afternoon.

 The Jat leaders are now demanding relief and rehabilitation for those who suffered injuries during police action or violence in the agitation last year.
 
 The initiative comes a day after the office of advocate general had requested the court to resume hearing of cases related to OBC quota to Jats and six other communities.
 
 “The state government wants to resolve the issue in the next couple of days. Besides cases of heinous crimes, experts are examining other cases as well. These are some of the initiative by the government before convening second round of dialogue with Jat leaders,“ said Amit Arya, media advisor to Haryana CM   and member of chief minister's office staff.
 
 Meanwhile, alerted by intelligence inputs, the police carried out extensive and repeated flag marches in Rohtak, Jhajjar, Sonipat and other cities of the state. At the same time the district administration of Rohtak and Jhajjar have spruced up security of areas inhabited by non Jats in the districts. The move comes after alleged incidents of marches taken out by groups of Jat agitators in the colonies occupied by the non-Jat communities.
 
 A total of 30 persons mostly from Jat community were killed and 300 others were injured in violence and police action during the   last year.
 
 The Jat leaders have already had first round of talks with the government panel headed by chief secretary D S Desi.
 
 Besides pressing the government to make serious efforts to ensure OBC quota for Jats and six other communities in Haryana, their other demands included action against Kurukshetra MP Raj Kumar Saini and senior leader Roshan Lal Arya along with relief and rehabilitation of those injured in police action and employment for the next of kin of those who died.
 
 Meanwhile, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said that law and order in the state was under control and that issues raised by protesting Jats would be resolved after the second round of talks.
 
 “We are hopeful of a solution, possibly without much problem,“ Khattar said after chairing a meeting of the Haryana cabinet at   in Faridabad.
 
