NAGPUR: Even though CBSE has promised schools adequate supply of books and created an online portal to submit requisition for required copies, many schools in district will continue with books from private publishers. 

 Considering CBSE sent two circulars about   books, that too within 10 days, there was speculation among schools and even parents that these books have been made mandatory. A senior principal from city said, “We can’t just change our academic plans overnight by stopping books that are being used for last couple of years. There is no written directive from CBSE which says NCERT books are mandatory and private books are banned. All these two circular mention is that we have to submit our NCERT books’ requirement online.”
 
 On Thursday, the central board issued a circular to schools informing of extension of deadline in submitting online requisition for books.  , joint secretary of the board wrote, “NCERT is making special arrangements for supply of NCERT books for Std I-VIII in CBSE affiliated schools through their vendors”. This circular specifically asked schools to refer to a 2014 directive about type of books to be used in schools, which further raised a red flag for schools making them wonder if they missed a fine print somewhere and have been prescribing private books in violation of CBSE bylaws. 
 
 However, a principal who referred to that 2014 circular said, “In fact here the CBSE says that private publishers’ books can be prescribed. It is written here that as per rule 15.1 (d) of the affiliation by-law, schools will have to scrutinize private books carefully and if the content ends up being controversial, the management will be held responsible.”
 
 Another principal said the CBSE’s concerns with private book publishers was only about content, whereas for parents it can be about price. “They (CBSE) are worried that private books may hurt sentiments of a community hence prefer NCERT created content. Parents feel private books are extremely costly but in reality even in top schools they account for just 5%-10% of the annual fee. And the quality of books and content is amazing which is beneficial for the kid,” she said. 
 
 CBSE officials were unavailable for a comment. An academician from the city, who is a RSS member and has close links to   leadership in Delhi, said, “Banning of private books is an ideal situation but it is not such an easy task. First concern is whether NCERT can provide ample books across the country, which may still take a year or two to stabilize. Second is the strong lobby of private publishers who share their revenue with willing school management generously. And third factor is the bureaucracy itself that may have strong nexus with private publishers and schools to keep the system untouched.”
 
 A principal said that hoopla over NCERT books is being read into too much. “In future, NCERT books may be made mandatory and I am sure they are working on that, considering the ramping up of production capacity which is being talked about in their circulars. But if they do it this year itself, it will be cutting it too close for schools since the new academic session begins in just four months,” she said. 
 
