Soon Bengalureans will cease looking for   outside the city, with   all set to create a   on the  

 With an aim to attract more people, the department of parks and garden has started working on recreating a mini version of the world’s biggest waterfall, and the first phase of the blueprint will be ready within a week. The waterfall will be created from the water of the existing small and big lakes in the garden.
 
 Speaking to Bangalore Mirror, Dr M Jagadish, joint director, parks and garden, Lalbagh, said, “The   is surrounded by a quarry. We thought this would be ideal to build a waterfall-like structure. Water from the big lake will be pumped to flow into the small lake and the steep inline between them would give the appearance of a waterfall.”
 
 The department has already given Rs 2.5 lakh to PWD and is taking the necessary actions to realise the project. Waterfall experts are being consulted and many other environmentalists are also going to be a part of the future plan of action. The PWD (construction) team will start with the consultation of all the experts and bring a replica of Niagara very soon. “In one week we will start working on the project, and in next six months we will be completing the whole project. We are hopeful that the mini-Niagara will be the best spot in Bengaluru,” Dr Jagadish said.
 
 Water rotation will lead to water purification 
 
 Since the water for the waterfall will be pumped from the big lake to the small one, water from the present stagnant lakes will be in continuous rotation.
 
 This will cause aeration of the water, and the dust in the lakes, which used to get deposited on the bed, will be eliminated. “By doing so, the temperature in the park will be much cooler and the air quality will improve.”
 
 Talking about availability of water in the lakes, Dr Jagadish said, “Water from Kanakapalya, Ashoka Pillar and Jayanagar 4th block all come to the lake beds and that is how, the water is sustained here. So, there will not be a problem of scarcity of water in the lake throughout the year.”
 
 
 Project in numbers 
 
 2.7crore
 Cost of the project has been estimated at 2.7 crore
 
 120feet
 The height of the waterfall will be 25 feet and width 120 feet
 
 250HP
 With the use 250HP motor, water will be pumped from the big lake in the garden to the small lake, around which the waterfall will be created
 
 
 How will the waterfall be constructed?
 
 The small lake in Lalbagh has a stone wall already. More rocks will be attached to it to make a inclined structure from which water can be made to fall into the lake. A high-speed motor will lift water from the big lake and store it in a tank. Around 660 litres of water will be made to flow across the incline using 2 feet pipes from the top of the waterfall. The water will fall from a height of 8 metres, and across a width of 38 metres.
 
