Walking into Leena George’s exquisitely arranged villa in the tony neighbourhood of Chilavanur in Kochi is like entering a permanent exhibition of art and craft.

 Adorning the walls, tables and every nook and cranny are upcycled artefacts including redesigned bottles, candle stands, vases, pans and pots. One might easily reach the conclusion that the creator has been into home decor all her life but nothing could be farther than the truth. It is a passion triggered, strangely, by a medical crisis and it proves that art is not merely for art’s sake.
 
 Years, nay decades, ago, Leena had studied interior design but never thought it would occupy centre stage in her life one day. After getting married to an engineer,   George, they had moved to Chennai and then to Syria and Jordan, followed by a 10-year-stint in Japan. Raising their two boys became chiefly Leena’s responsibility as Ravi had to travel a lot. “Life in Japan, a country with an alien language and culture, made me independent and confident,” she says.
 
 In the mid-eighties, Ravi returned to India and set up his own business in Chennai and later shifted operations to Kochi. As business flourished, Leena joined the firm, helping with administrative work. Their boys became men, got married and started their own families. Their family’s happiness index nosedived all of a sudden three years ago when Ravi developed kidney failure.
 
 He had to undergo dialysis three times a week. For the next couple of years, their life shifted from the corporate corridors to hospital rooms and ICUs. “One dialysis would mean spending five hours, both for the patient and the bystander,” says Leena. Before kidney transplant, the only permanent solution, he had to undergo several other surgeries to correct other problems.
 
 Leena was brave and confident even as her husband went into depression. She felt that she had it in her to face any situation and in fact used to chat up lonely strangers in the hospital and infuse them with positivity.
 
 Then it happened one day as she was resting in her room while Ravi was in the ICU after a prostate surgery. She could not lift the blanket with her hand, no matter how hard she tried. There was intense pain too.
 
 Body pain persisted and she found it hard to walk. Consultations and a battery of tests later, the doctors did not find anything wrong with her body but had to put her on steroids. The psychiatrist in the hospital finally diagnosed her problem: stress had got the better of her and caused a nervous breakdown. She argued with the doctor that she was by nature a strong person but he pointed that while that may be true, the subconscious mind could not take it any longer. What followed were months of illness and inactivity, when she had to be lifted out of her bed. Nothing including ayurveda could get her back on her feet. “I didn’t want to live like this and prayed to God to take my life,” she remembers.
 
 She became a ghost of her earlier self after losing many kilos and all her energy. The psychiatrist himself was shocked at the way she was going downhill and gave her a piece of advice that was to prove life-altering. It was no complicated philosophy but a tip to do something that she enjoyed instead of brooding over her fate. That was how she started making home decor items during sleepless nights after checking YouTube and the Internet. The curios not only brought her compliments from those around but immense satisfaction from within. Almost miraculously, her situation began to improve and doctors were able to take her off steroids gradually. By then, her husband also returned to normal life after he had the transplant.
 
 The creativity that was dormant in her overflowed to such an extent that there was no space to store all the stands and bottles and frames and pots in different sizes and shapes, most of them with a stylish retro finish. She then started conducting exhibitions and they flew off the shelves in no time. “I am now getting orders over the Internet too,” she says, as the glow in her face belies her 64 years. Her imaginativeness has spread past the interiors of the house to the garden where she grows fruits, veggies and flowers, complete with bio gas and vermi compost. Welcoming visitors is a nameplate fashioned out of the wooden wheel of her tharavadu’s bullock cart, held in place with a stand made out of their ancient gate.
 
 “I feel reborn, so I need to be productive with my life and leave something behind. These items are priced according to the effort behind each but it is not for the money. The idea is to turn seemingly worthless stuff into beautiful things,” she says.
 
 Leena believes each piece that she makes is a tribute to the Lord who gave her a second life and a new way of looking at this world.
 
 “Our house is completely powered by solar and I am able to dispose all waste except plastic. If each one of us takes care to keep the space in front of our house neat, the whole neighbourhood will shine. Even the shops and companies can build a clean city by keeping their surroundings in good shape,” she says, reflecting a kind of ‘inner engineering’ that is infectious.
 
