PUNE: The same story repeats itself a hundred times over on the city's roads, but civic officials, traffic police and citizens have not learned any lessons.
Take the   where   (PMC) is building a flyover. The traffic-laden junction now has to deal with an even bigger mess than it used to. The protective tin sheets block a portion of the road and impede vehicles coming from Pune Cantonment throughout the day.
 
 The project was planned in 2011, but the delay in getting defence land set it back by five years.
 
 The chowk links commuters to Market Yard, Bibvewadi, Dhankawdi, Katraj, Wanowrie, Fatimanagar, Kondhwa and the other suburbs.
 
 Hapless policemen said they have increased signal time by a few seconds to ease bottlenecks.
 
 Raju Patil, president of  , said motorists coming from Camp face difficulties in taking a right turn to Lullanagar because of the tin shed erected for undertaking the construction work of the flyover.
 
 “The congestion here has also increased because armymen deployed at Vikram Batra enclave and Kendriya Vidyalaya are preventing motorists from taking a right turn, a shorter route to Lullanagar from Gandhi Empire and vice versa,“ Patil said.
 
 A response from the defen ce PRO on December 20, 2016 said Vikram Batra Road was not a public road.
 
 “There are two married accommodation colonies on this road __ Vikram Batra Enclave and Defence Civilian Accommodation (DCA), Lullanagar, wherein approx 900 fa milies are residing. These colonies are vulnerable to both miscreants and antinational elements. In view of the prevailing security situation when military personnel and their families are also likely targets, preventive measures to include random checks and restriction on movement on this road have been imposed,“ the communique added.
 
 Kondhwa Khurd resident Nilima Shah said the traffic situation at the chowk for the flyover construction is chaotic. “The traffic signal is not functional and every day there are bottlenecks at chowks and roads coming from Market Yard and the road going towards Camp,“ she added.
 
 Shop keeper Mohan Rathod said it was a political gimmick in an election year. “The chowk is huge and there was hardly any chaos. The flyover will not make any difference.There are posters of a corporator taking credit for the work,“ he added.
 
 IT professional Suresh Thampi said the chowk has traffic snarls every day , the signals are not functioning and the traffic cops are unable to manage the chaos, especially during peak hours. “The situation gets worse in the evening. People have to wait for 15-20 minutes. The flyover will benefit the residents.“
 
 Realtor Jameel Shaikh sa id they cannot see vehicles coming from Lullanagar Chowk and passing via Kondhwa-Bibvewadi Road because autorickshaws parked haphazardly block the view.
 
 He said congestion is also created at Usman Shaikh Talab Chowk in Lullanagar because hundreds of students ply in school buses, autorickshaws and other vehicles. The chowk needs speed breakers and CCTVs and a ban on heavy vehicles, he added.
 
 Vehicles coming from Pune-Solapur highway must be diverted via Undri Chowk, Khadi Machine Chowk, Katraj-Kondhwa bypass to PuneSatara highway to reach Market Yard for loading and unloading goods, residents said.
 
 There is scope to widen both sides of Kondhwa-Bibvewadi Road and corrective measures are needed now. “It will be difficult to handle traffic chaos when the flyover work progresses on the other side of  ,“ a citizen said.
 
 (With inputs from Nisha Nambiar)
 
