BENGALURU: Parents of students studying in central board schools have demanded that the   reconsider its decision to get all schools in  , including those of ICSE and CBSE, to introduce Kannada as the first or second language from class 1 to 10 from this year. 

  The department of public instructions issued a notification in this regard on June 5. 
 
  "I agree, one who lives in Karnataka should know Kannada, but it is to be implemented, it's good for those who are joining class 1 and then it can be taken forward to the higher class," said Sunita Luke, whose child studies in class 4. 
 
 "For students who made their language options in class V and have developed a level of comfort with the languages they have chosen, it is practically difficult to change their choices and learn a new language from scratch," she said.
 
 Sunitha's daughter was in UKG when she chose Hindi as the second language. "The child is in the midway of learning Hindi and it will be difficult for us to start a new language again," she added. 
 
 Nisheedh Thankan, another parent of a student from  , said: "When children are young, they learn a language faster. Most schools are nearing first-term assessments. The government should be a bit lenient in implementing these orders. They should start with new sessions or from the lower section before class 1-10 or at the time of class I admission."
 
 Shreya K Mariyanka, mother of a class 2 student at  , said: "My son is in class 2 and has already chosen Hindi as second language and Sanskrit as third. So getting him to learn a new curriculum of Kannada will be difficult. We communicate in Kannada but writing and reading will be a test for parents also." 
 
 The parents said they have respect for the regional language, but stressed the need to start teaching it early. 
 
  "Most of the time when a new language is introduced, it gets restricted to reading and writing; it never comes into communication. If the orders have been passed by the government, it should be implemented strategically," said  , mother of a class 9 student in Vibgyor High School. 
 
 In February 2017, the CBSE issued a notification for three-language policy, where they asked students to learn at least two Indian languages, but it was rolled back when parents raised objections citing that it would burden kids.
 
