JALANDHAR: The issue of Britain’s role during the 1984 events in Punjab, when the Army stormed the Golden Temple complex in Amritsar, has once again come to the fore, with the release of a letter from more than 2,000 Foreign and   (FCO) and   records to the  . The letter reveals that the UK gave a confidential briefing on internal security and counter-insurgency equipment to the Indian Army’s ‘Chief of General Staff’.

 The letter from a major of the UK army reflected that while assisting India, the latter’s “significant potential” as a customer of defence equipment was also being kept in mind. 
 
 The letter of March 20, 1985, has been brought out by UK-based researcher  , who is working with   UK. He had earlier brought out two letters in January 2014 from the declassified documents, which revealed that then British Prime Minister   had sent an SAS officer to India months before Operation Bluestar to advise the local forces on how to plan the operation.
 
 Miller, who has also authored an article on ‘Vice.com’ on the issue, said the UK government was hiding almost a third of the historic files that could shed light on SAS involvement in the military operation at the holiest Sikh shrine.
 
 The letter titled ‘India – Training Films’ discusses providing films on the use of riot-control agents. “We believe that A is unduly defensive on the subject of riot control agents. While we recognize the sensitivity on training foreign forces in IS (internal security), we do not believe that this extends to supplying film. We believe that supplying a restricted film on the use of riot control agents is a fairly innocuous act and not one that would adversely reflect on the UK.”
 
 “Furthermore, with an eye on defence sales, we believe that India provides significant potential for sales of equipment. If the UK does not provide such assistance and equipment, other nations will. In this respect you should be aware that last year the CGS (Chief General Staff – probably implying Chief of Army Staff ) of the Army received a brief at confidential level on the IS (internal security) and COIN (counter insurgency) equipment,” the letter reads.
 
 “Finally we consider that there is political advantage to be gained in supporting a country with a major terrorist problem, particularly one with such a close link with this country,” the letter adds. 
 
 “It is deeply concerning that so many British files about India from this period are being hidden from the public,” Miller said during an interaction with TOI on Friday. 
 
