GANDHINAGAR:   on Friday called for   in line with the ‘Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat’ motto. He was addressing — through a video link — the   and secretaries of tourism, culture, youth affairs, and sports. 

 Ministers and top officials of around 30 states and Union Territories gathered at Dhordo in White Rann, Kutch. “We take pride in youngsters who learn languages such as French or Spanish,” Modi said. “But we don’t appreciate young people who learn Indian languages”. He said MOUs could be signed between states to facilitate the exchange of students. “That way, for example, Haryana students can learn Telugu or Telangana students can learn Haryanvi,” he said. “We have 100 languages and 1,700 dialects. This cultural exchange can help states develop bonds, and Indian enrich culture.” 
 
 Modi stressed on institutional improvement from block, district, state, and national levels to prepare internationally competitive sports persons. “We have 800 million youth below 35; that is 65% of the population,” he said. “We need to focus on developing this human resource to compete globally.” 
 
 As for tourism, the PM said: “All states need to develop at least five destinations which can attract national and international tourists.” Citing the example of Rann Utsav, which has developed the once neglected white desert of Kutch into a major tourism destination, he said other states can develop destinations based on this model. He also emphasized the need to map tourism potential in states and to link that with demand in various countries. He said India needed to nurture a tourist-friendly environment. He suggested states work on their branding with the help of government and corporate institutions.
 
 
 
 Chief Minister Vijay Rupani said that Gujarat will will focus only on nature and culture to boost tourism. He said that the state will not use liquor or casinos to lure tourists. He said that Narendra Modi, as the CM, had developed tourism in Kutch after the earthquake. “It’s possible to replicate such success stories,” Rupani said. He said that after the ‘Kutch Nahi Dekha Toh Kuch Nahi Dekha’ campaign, ‘Bharat Nahi Dekha Toh Kuch Nahi Dekha’ campaign can be launched to attract foreign tourists to India. 
 
