NOIDA:   on Friday demanded an ‘immediate   and interest that they owe to the   to help expedite delivery of  .

 Credai representatives claimed that the ‘zero period’ of non-construction in the Noida Extension region because of the farmers’ agitation during 2010-11 and the two years of non-construction during 2013-15 because of a ban on construction by NGT be considered. They claimed that such a waiver could lower a financial load of 20-30% in the form of penalty and interest on the builders.
 
 Top builders of Noida, several of them with a long list of pending deliveries, met Noida Authority CEO Amit Mohan Prasad; ACEO Shishir Singh; district magistrate N P Singh; and SP (City) Dinesh Yadav, among others, in a closed-door meeting at the Noida Authority’s Sector 6 office on Friday.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Prasad said, “Builders have also asked us to review if they can deliver units tower-wise. For this we will have to allow tower-wise completion certificates, for which we will have to seek approval from the Board,” he said. “According to the developers, banks are coming forward to give loans to them,” he said.
 
 The meeting was convened on the instructions of chief minister Yogi Aditya Nath who recently met homebuyers of Noida at his Lucknow office. The Credai delegation at Friday’s meeting was led by Credai national head Gitamber Anand and Credai NCR president Manoj Gaur.On Friday all builders made verbal commitments to expedite completion. The main takeaways of the meeting will be released in writing by the Noida Authority early next week. The builders have been asked to submit timelines in writing within four days.
 
 The Amrapali group has a total of 10,000 apartments, with 2,000 pending. The group committed to deliver all pending apartments in 18 months from now.
 
 The Supertech group claimed its deliveries to be in progress and said its issues of maintenance-related problems would be addressed.
 
 “The meeting was significant. It is time for both the builders and the Authority to meet halfway and finish all pending projects. ,” Manoj Gaur, president, Credai NCR, said.
 
 
