RAJKOT: A bootlegger and a 19-year-old with several offences registered against him, including a constable’s murder, were found dead on the   late on Sunday night with police claiming that the duo and three others had a bloody fight over sharing robbed booty. 

 Bodies of   alias Pendo (19) and Prakash Lunagariya (30) were found at some distance from each other. 
 
 Besides a constable’s murder last year, Zala has offences like assaulting a woman and unnatural sex lodged against him. Lunagariya, a bootlegger, was a resident of Dhrangadhra town in Surendranagar district.
 
 Addressing media persons, Deepak Bhatt, additional commissioner of police, said that Shaktisinh, Lunagariya, Kadar Malek, Yuvrajsinh Zala and  , all friends had met near   and hatched a plan to rob anyone who comes near the river bank. Shaktisinh had told them that he was in urgent need of money. 
 
 As per their plan, they intercepted two persons going a bike and thrashed them with iron pipes and sticks at around 8pm. However, they did not find any money from them. Meanwhile, police received a tip-off about some fight at the river bank and rushed there. But all fled from the spot.
 
 “Later, at around 11pm, they robbed an unidentified person of Rs 5,700. After the loot, Kadar, Parmar and Lunagariya demanded their share of money. This angered Yuvrajsinh and Shaktisinh and they started thrashing the three. When police reached the spot, Lunagariya was lying unconscious but arrested Kadar, Parmar and Yuvrajsinh,” Bhatt said. 
 
 “Lunagariya was rushed to the hospital where he succumbed to injuries. Meanwhile, when police were searching for Shaktisinh, one passer-by informed them about a man lying dead in Aji River,” he said. The officer said that Shaktisinh died after being thrashed by Kadar, Parmar and Lunagariya. And, Lunagariya died after being beaten up by Yuvrajsinh and Shaktisinh. 
 
 However, Shaktisinh’s mother Neetaba refused to buy police’s version and alleged that her son was murdered in their custody “My son was in the custody of Bhaktinagar police on Sunday. I had gone to meet him at police station, but was not allowed to see him. How can he escape from custody to carry out a loot?” she told media persons.
 
 On December 29, Shaktisinh was booked in Bhaktinagar police station for threatening to kill a man and assaulting a woman. 
 
 Shaktisinh, then a minor, was one of the accused for murder of police constable   in March 2016. He was sent to an observation home in Rajkot. However, he was booked in April for allegedly indulging in unnatural sex with a minor inmate at the observation home.
 
