JAIPUR: A 22-year-old girl was allegedly  ,   including the driver of an auto-rickshaw she boarded from the   on Monday evening to reach her rented home in Jagatpura. 

 The girl was allegedly taken to an isolated park, raped through the night and then dumped outside a government engineering college near JLN Marg on Tuesday morning. She called the police control room after which she was taken to a hospital for medical and a manhunt was launched. The girl, who hails from Mainpuri in  , alleged in her complaint that she had gone to Alwar to appear in a staff selection commission exam. She came back to Jaipur at about 7 pm and called her brother, who was in Jaipur on vacation, from the railway station telling him that she would be late for dinner.
 
 “The girl said while she was looking for an auto-rickshaw to go to her rented accommodation in Jagatpura where she lives with her father, an auto-rickshaw with three men already seated in the rear seat approached her.The driver agreed to drop her home for Rs 20 only on sharing basis. As soon as she boarded the auto, the four men one middle-aged and three youngsters -gagged her and took her to a park where they took turns to rape her,“ said Prafful Kumar, additional deputy commissioner of police (Crime). The girl also alleged that she was made to drink pesticide by the four men.
 
 “The girl was left outside the gate of an engineering college near JLN Marg at 5.15 am.That's when she called up the police control room and narrated her plight,“ Kumar said.
 
 Police said they are analyzing the call detail records of her mobile phone to identify the area she was taken to.“Our teams are also interrogating various auto rickshaw drivers and their owners to trace the four men,“ said Ashok Gupta, deputy commissioner of police (West). While primary medical re port has confirmed rape, senior police officers said there were some loopholes in the girl's story. “The girl's medical examination has confirmed sexual intercourse, however, no struggle or injury marks were found on her body ,“ said a senior police officer.
 
 “A team would be sent to Alwar to authenticate her claims that she had appeared for an SSC exam,“ the officer added.
 
 The police said they were also finding it difficult to trace the auto rickshaw used in the crime as the girl does not remember its registration number. “More than 2,000 auto rickshaws are running illegally in the city without permits.We are trying to get the   footages of the auto rickshaw stand at the railway station, the area near the JLN Marg and other parts of the city to identify the assailants,“ said an officer.
 
