MANGALURU: The eyes of slain RTI activist Vinayak Baliga’s mother Jayanthi, who died recently, were donated to two sightless persons. Her family members offered to donate her eyes after she passed away on January 8.

 Jayanthi and her husband Panduranga Baliga were fighting two battles -- to get justice in their son’s murder case and to battle age-related health issues. Jayanthi’s eyes have now given sight to two persons after the Fr Muller Medical College Hospital here successfully transplanted her cornea. The Baliga family and those fighting for justice for Vinayak decided to donate her eyes through the Fr Muller –  .
 
 Dr F E A Rodrigues, professor and head of the ophthalmology department, Fr Muller Medical College, said: “A few persons in this world are chosen by the almighty to do His good work. I’m sure this family (the Baliga family) is among them.”
 
 Dr Rodrigues said, “We’ve already implanted the corneas and both recipients are doing well. This may offer some solace to the Baliga family.”
 
 “Eye donation is a noble act for which God will surely shower blessings on you and your family. Two people are able to see the world. It is possible because of people like you and your family,” Dr Rodrigues wrote in a letter to Vinayak’s sister Anuradha. 
 
 Narendra Nayak, president, Deshapremi Sanghatanegala Okkuta which is supporting the Baliga’s family in their fight for justice, said, “Jayanthi saw her only son Vinayak die before her eyes in March 2016. He was hacked to death by a gang of killers allegedly set up by those who wanted to silence him for questioning irregularities in a number of institutions of his community.” Since that day, she had been depressed and worried about the safety of other family members, he said. 
 
 “As a woman born into an orthodox family, she wanted her son to perform her last rites. However, her son-in-law had to do that duty. She fell unconscious from a massive brain haemorrhage on January 7 and passed away the next day. The grieving family remembered to donate her eyes so that at least two persons would be helped,” Nayak said.
 
