COIMBATORE: Come summer season, farmers in   near Mettupalayam and Sirumugai are expecting a bountiful yield of watermelon. They have planted saplings of   bought from Mysore and Sathyamangalam in an area of 500 acres and are expecting a yield of 15 tonnes per acre, which will be supplied to Kerala. 

 T Shamugam, 48, a farmer at Thottadhasanur near Thekkampatti, had planted saplings of watermelon in three acres. He has been using drip irrigation system and mulch methods to cultivate watermelon. “By adopting both mulch methods and drip irrigation system we are expecting good yields,” said Shamugam.
 
 He added that the farmers attempted to get the saplings of the watermelon from Coimbatore soils. But they could not make it and the farmers from Sathyamangalam and Mysore are selling saplings. “I planted 4,000 saplings per acre and each sapling is cost about Rs 2.65 and spent Rs 45,000/acre for drip irrigation. I would get the yield in 45-50 days,” said Shanmugam.
 
 He said buyers from Coimbatore and Kerala approached us and are ready to buy at the rate of Rs 8–Rs 10/kg. “The summer season started and the price will go up. I expect that 1kg of watermelon will touch Rs 15 in March and this would give good profit to the farmers,” he said.
 
 Farmers from Kancheepuram, Thiruvallur and Viluppuram have been cultivating watermelon for summer season since 2003 and they have major markets in Chennai and Coimbatore. Now, the Coimbatore farmers have also started growing watermelon from their own soil. 
 
 “Once the saplings are planted, then the farmers don’t need to worry about the farm workers. One person can manage three acres of crops. Farmers from Sirumugai and Thottadhasanur and Thekkampatti and Mettupalayam are cultivating watermelon,” said N Ramchandran, another farmer from Thekkampatti.
 
 When contacted, state general secretary of   said farmers from Coimbatore district will cultivate watermelon in 500 acres soon. “If the price is good, then the farmers will get huge profit,” Kandasamy said.
 
