BERHAMPUR: Three persons, including the husband of newly   of a panchayat in Nayagarh district's  , were on Saturday arrested for allegedly looting a ballot box and setting it on fire it during the   on Friday.

 "Though the ballot box which was dumped in a jungle nearby was recovered, the ballot papers were set ablaze," said subdivisional police officer,  .
 
 Upendra Sahu, husband of Sunanda Sahu, the newly elected samiti member of Simili Sahi; Prasant Pradhan and Subash Rout were arrested for allegedly snatching the ballot box from a booth of Sakeni village under Tendapadi panchayat.
 
 Upendra, the former chairman of Dasapalla block, was contesting as samiti member from Tendapadi panchayat along with Bapuji Sahu, a former sarpanch.
 
 "He along with his supporters had allegedly barged into booth no. 8 at Sakeni village and looted the ballot box around 5pm when voting was still on," said Samita Mishra, officer in-charge, Dasapalla. She added that the others involved in the ballot box loot case will be arrested soon.
 SP (Nayagarh) KV Singh has sought a report about the incident from the SDPO.
 
 Meanwhile, police arrested two persons, including the husband of the newly elected sarpanch of Antarapada panchayat in Buguda block of Ganjam district, for allegedly attacking the husband of their rival sarapach candidate.
 
 "Santosh Bhol, husband of Bijayalkaxmi, the newly elected sarapanch of Antarapada panchayat and his brother Prasant, were arrested for attacking Kokaram Nayak on Thursday," said Bhagaban Pujari, officer in-charge, Balipadara police outpost. Kokaram, who sustained injuries in the incident, is undergoing treatment at MKCG Medical College and Hospital here.
 
 Police also detained two persons in connection with the murder of a supporter of BJD's rebel sarapanch candidate in Pangidi panchayat of the same block. The deceased was identified as Sisir Nayak, 38, of Belapada village.
 
 He along with his associate Prahallad Swain, were returning to the village on a motorbike when sone miscreants, believed to be the supporters of the opposition group, attacked the duo. Nayak, who was seriously injured in the incident, was admitted to MKCG Medical College and Hospital here, where he succumbed to his injuries. The villagers of Belapada (booth no 11) of Pangidi boycotted the elections to protest against the incident.
 
