KOLKATA: A delegation of at least   — possibly the biggest ever from that country — will be in Kolkata in the first week of April, looking for investment opportunities. The delegation is from Shandong province, one of China’s most prosperous, with a GDP of $967 billion.

 Most of these companies represent agricultural products, food processing, chemicals, heavy engineering, manufacturing, ecological engineering and biotechnology. Most prominent of them are Kingenta Ecological Engineering Group, Hailir Pesticides and Chemicals Group, Yijia Pastoral Agricultural Science and Technology Co., Shandong Long Zhen Ecological Agriculture, Science and Technology, Dayang General Machinery, Shandong Sino-Agri United Biotechnology and Shandong Jiafeng Marine Bio-technology Co.
 
 The visit is being jointly facilitated by the Chinese consulate in the city and the state industries department. On April 5, the delegation of industry heads will reach the city for a two-day meet that might end with several of them deciding to either set up base here or enter into a joint venture with Bengal-based companies. The West   Industrial Development Corporation (WBIDC) and with the Indian Chamber of Commerce (ICC) are shortlisting Bengal companies that can start talks with the Shandong companies to chart out   plans. The delegation will also be taken to several industrial parks to show them the kind of handholding that the state government is eager to do, so that some aggressive investment can happen before long.
 
 The delegation has political significance too, because it is being led by Junmin Wang, the vice-governor of Shandong provincial government, who is very senior in China’s political ladder. He will be accompanied by other top political figures like Xue Qingguo, director-general of the foreign affairs department and Wang Jinbao, director-general of the agriculture department.
 
 Industries secretary Rajiva Sinha sounded upbeat about the forthcoming visit. “We ae expecting a positive outcome. The enthusiasm is mutual, since the Chinese companies have evinced a lot of interest in investing here. At least 50 Bengal companies are being shortlisted for JVs by WBIDC and ICC, keeping in mind the sectors that are represented in the delegation. Actually, these are the areas in which Bengal specialises too,” Sinha said. Apart from industrial parks, the delegation might even be taken to Krishak Bazaars that the state has set up all over to facilitate marketing of agri produce, minimizing the role of middlemen.
 
 Chinese consul-general Ma Zhanwu said a new period of trust and co-operation has started between China and Bengal. This has deepened through repeated cultural exchanges and business meets that have been happening over the past one-and-a-half years. The Bengal Global Business Summit saw some participation from Chinese companies, which set the mood for investments. “The present delegation is the largest ever and we hope this will set an example for many more to follow,” he said. 
 
 
