CUTTACK:   on Wednesday got a new state-of-the-art intensive care unit (ICU).

 The ICU with 30 beds facility was inaugurated by health minister  . The central ICU has been opened in the fifth floor of the trauma ward and it has been equipped with latest machines and facilities. At least Rs 1 crore have been spent on construction of the ICU while Rs 7.5 crore have been spent for procurement of high end equipments.
 
 “Our government is taking all possible measures to provide best medical facilities at the government-run hospitals in the state,” said health minister Pratap Jena after inaugurating the new ICU. 
 
 Presently, the hospital has only 10 beds in the Central ICU, which is very less in comparison to the requirement. Hospital sources said not less than 20 patients are in the waiting list on any single day to avail ICU facility. Due to shortage of beds in central ICU, poor attendants are often forced to admit their patients in private hospitals to save their lives. Looking at the rising demand of patients, hospital authorities in 2014 had decided to increase the bed strength in central ICU from existing 10 to 30. 
 
 “We are waiting to get few more equipment like ventilators, portable x-ray machines and high end monitors from Odisha State Medical Corporation(OSMC). 
 
 After installation of all the equipments, the new ICU will be fumigated and made functional,” said in-charge of ICU, Dr Basant Pradhan. Hospital sources said out of the total 57 varieties of equipment required for ICU, the OSMC, agency which procures machines for government hospital, has so far provided only 34 items. After arrival of the remaining equipments the ICU will be made open for patients use.
 
 Notably,   hospital has around 80 ICU beds in different departments like gynaecology, medicine, trauma, cardiothoracic while the requirement is much more in the hospital, which has bed strength of over 1800. 
 
 Doctors said in the new ICU, special measures have been taken to ensure that patients suffering from heart failure and renal damage can undergo dialysis and other necessary treatments.
  
 At present, the central ICU with 10 beds is functioning in the surgery department. After shifting of the central ICU to the new unit, hospital authorities have plans to convert the wing into high dependency unit of surgery ward, where patients can recover after undergoing surgeries. 
 
