Chennai: Bipin Ragu started working on a 15-minute-long film in 2014 but only a week ago, he could release it through YouTube. 

 ‘Anil’ is a graphic novel-style short film inspired by the works of Robert Rodriguez and Satyajit Ray. It deals with the subjects of writer’s block and the tendency of stories to spiral out of the control of the creators themselves in a graphic novel-style short drama format. Being a fan of Rodriguez’s “Sin City”, Ragu always wanted to shoot a short film entirely with a matte background (mattes are used in filmmaking to combine two or more images into a single one).
 
  “Although the film deals with the subject of writer’s block, I also looked at creating some flavour of a bygone era. We shot the portions with the actors within three days in a friend’s studio initially,” said Ragu, a short-filmmaker based in Chennai.
 
 So what does graphic-novel-style mean in short film? “It’s a technique in which the story revolves around illustrations. Each sequence will appear with an illustration. It was challenging as we had to change the backgrounds and the set a number of times,” said Ragu. When the initial shooting was progressing, there was a problem. 
 
 “The blue matte in the footage was then removed by the artists over at the studio, leaving me with just the actors in the frame to work with. We got the background images rendered on a private software, after which I worked on compositing the layers of the actors into the background on after-effects, and also lighting the scenes and finalising camera movements. This went on sporadically over a period of around two-and-a-half years,” said Ragu, explaining the delay in the making of ‘Anil’.
 
 Ragu’s ‘Voyager’ was sent to the NASA CineSpace competition in association with Houston Cinema Arts Society in 2016. The ten-minute-long film was shortlisted by filmmaker Richard Linklater and got screened in the US. It is also the only film that was shortlisted from Asia in 2016. 
 
 Produced by Rajeswari Ragupathy and Sriram Viswanathan, the leads in the short film are played by Aravinth Sundar and Smrithi Parameswar. 
 
 
