PATNA: There was fresh trouble for RJD chief   and more turbulence in the JD(U)-RJD-Congress coalition in   on Friday with the   registering an FIR and conducting raids in connection with alleged corruption in hotel contracts and a land deal payoff when Lalu was rail minister in the UPA government.

 The CBI FIR for the suspected offence of “criminal conspiracy, cheating and criminal misconduct” was registered on July 5 and names Lalu, his wife  , his son and deputy chief minister  , Sarla Gupta, who is the wife of Lalu’s close associate Prem Gupta, proprietors of a hotel group and a former IRCTC official. Raids were conducted in four cities.
 
 The raids heated the simmering political cauldron in Bihar where a series of fresh graft charges against Lalu’s family has caused a severe strain in his relations with CM  . As it happened, the JD(U) leader was out of Patna and resting due to a reported viral infection. JD(U) maintained a studied silence, refusing to come to Lalu’s aid, unlike the Congress which backed RJD’s allegation of political vendetta.
 
 The brewing crisis in the ruling coalition could turn more serious if Tejashwi faces a chargesheet in the corruption case. Nitish’s decision to leave Patna just as opposition presidential candidate Meira Kumar arrived to campaign has already raised eyebrows and heightened the uncertainty over whether JD(U) will support a non-NDA vice president nominee.
 
 Interestingly, the graft charges in the railway contracts were raised by JD(U) leader Sharad Yadav and Shivanand Tiwari in 2008 when they petitioned then PM Manmohan Singh to investigate improper award of contracts for maintenance of railway-run hotels and alleged benefits to Lalu in lieu of the deal.
 
 The complaint alleges that Vinay and Vijay Kochar, owners of Chanakya and Sujata Hotels in Patna, got the sub-lease of rights of two railway hotels at Puri and Ranchi and that two acres of prime land in Patna was then transferred to a firm, Delight Marketing, at lower than circle rates in 2005. Later the company, managed by Sarla Gupta, was transferred to Rabri Devi and Tejashwi Yadav between 2012 and 14.
 
 Though RJD has claimed that the land transfer took place ahead of the railway hotel contracts and so did not reflect a conspiracy, CBI has pointed to the transfer of shares to Lalu’s family. The hotels were intended to be managed by IRCTC. The land sold to an entity controlled by Sarla Gupta was falsely shown as agricultural land, the complaint says, and claims that the conspiracy was hatched soon after Lalu became railway minister in 2004.
 
 The procedure for award of contract was allegedly manipulated to suit the requirements of the Kochars as they would not have been eligible as per conditions specified in a November 15, 2006 advertisement.
 
 
