By Sayantan Ghosh 

 NEW DELHI:  , a 28-year-old street vendor, leads an ironical life. Though he sells clothes on the footpath adjacent to Kashmere Gate ISBT, he can only afford to wear a light jacket and a cap to protect himself from the harsh cold.
 
 After spending 12 hours on the street, at night he lights up a chulha (hearth) to get some warmth. “I fall ill at times as I don’t have enough money to buy woollens. I pray daily for winter to end soon,” he said.
 
 Ali is not the only one on the street trying hard to earn money for his family. For these people, winter is not about cakes, fun-filled evenings and travelling. The auto drivers, for example, have to brave the draft blowing through their open vehicles throughout the day with many repeatedly suffering from cough, cold and fever. The situation is worse for those who ply at night.
 
 “I cover my nose and head to protect myself from the cold. Sometimes I start shivering while driving at night. I sleep in the sun during the day so that I can counter the ill-effects of the weather faced at night,” said Santosh Kumar, an auto driver sleeping inside his vehicle near   station.
 
 The footpath adjacent to   (AIIMS) is crowded with patients. One person among them is 80-year-old Satnarayan Das who tells religious stories and reads excerpts from the Gita to the patients to earn money. Das has just one sweater and a blanket given by someone eight years ago to keep himself warm. He can’t see with his left eye. His son left him as the treatment is costly.
 
 “I cover myself and sit in the metro station’s shade. I can’t sleep as the floor is cold and I do not have anything to spread on it,” Das said.
 
 The daily wage labourers in various parts of the city have come up with a unique solution to beat the chill. They work through the night to keep themselves warm with physical activity. “Like every winter, even this year I am suffering from cold. This is the worst time of the year for me,” said  . Wearing colourful clothes, decorated caps and woollen mufflers are a dream for many of these homeless people and their only refuge is building a fire to beat the cold.
 
