THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The city corporation, perhaps for the first time, will attempt at complying with the concept of   control as mandated by the draft of the   manual when it presents the budget for 2017-18 on Friday. The decision to stick to scruples arises out of a desire to stay grounded and the finance standing committee is expected to show some restraint in projection of figures especially with regard to income in the budget.

 As per the norms of the budget manual, the budget variant control, which means difference between figures in the budget and those in the annual finance statement, has to be minimal. It is at this point, the ruling council is striving to make a difference, deviating from the usually trodden path filled with astronomical figures and unrealistic projects.
 
 The decision to keep figures at realistic levels was also the result of the manner in which the previous budget simply shot figures to unprecedented highs. The city corporation anticipated the biggest ever expenditure and income in the budget for 2016-17. Both income and expenditure were expected to touch more than Rs 1,200 crore and projecting a surplus of Rs 32 crore.
 
 Deputy mayor Rakhi Ravikumar made historic strides in terms of expenditure figures in 2016-17. In terms of fixed assets, corporation expected to spend Rs 301.9 crore, which was nearly Rs 200 crore more than what was expected in 2015-16 budget. The amount confounded all previous figures which had never crossed Rs 100 crore till 2015.
 
 “This year focus has been on keeping everything realistic and minimal. Last year’s projected figures were bit too high that this year restraint became indispensable,” a corporation official said.
 
 While exercising control, deputy mayor Rakhi Ravikumar will be tested in striking the right balance between income and expenditure. While corporation expected huge tax receipts for 2016-17, hoping that new tax regime would come into effect, in reality tax receipts have followed the usual pattern as new tax regime is yet to be implemented in the city. This would give rise to a vacuum in expected receipts. Besides lack of asset creation over the past one decade has restricted corporation’s own income to age-old collection reserves like markets, toilets and tax. The financial requisites for smart city and AMRUT would further burden corporation.
 
 Both the central schemes make it mandatory for corporation to chip in with matching share and in case of smart city additional sources should also be explored. The budgetary allocation is expected to be in such a way that it wouldn’t hurt the prospects of other wards which do not figure in project areas.
 
 
