MUMBAI: About a fortnight after the Kolkata ' ' scare, here's one near Amchi Mumbai. Two families in Vasai and Virar have complained that the eggs they took home from the grocery store were found to be hard and rubbery when cooked into omelettes. The   (VVMC) has sent samples for testing.

 On Tuesday , Vasai resident Sweety Misquitta, who had three days earlier bought a branded pack of six eggs from a supermarket, found the shells harder than usual and rubbery . “Normal egg, if spoiled, has bad odour, but these had no smell at all,“ said Misquitta. “To find out if it was real, I set fire to the inside of the egg, and it turned into plastic.“ She complained about the matter to civic authorities.
 
 Pravin Shetty of the VVMC standing committee said, “We are sending the samples to the  . I have spoken about the matter with the supermarket from where the eggs were bought.“ It is pertinent to note that the Kolkata tests ruled out that the eggs reported there were fake.
 
 In the other incident, in Virar, the Mingle family bought six eggs from a grocery store on Tuesday . Maya Mingle said she found the shells unusually hard. “I poured the contents onto the frying pan, but was unable to remove the finished product. The egg refused to leave the pan. I had to scratch it out. It burnt and smelt like plastic.“
 
 The store's owner, Rafiq Shaikh, said the eggs were procured from Wada taluka in Palghar district.He said this was the first time he received such a complaint.Civic officials said they will collect samples from the Mingles as well and send them for testing.
 
 In India, reports of 'Chinese fake eggs' or `plastic eggs' surfaced in Kerala in October 2016 after a regional TV news channel 'exposed' fake eggs being sold in Idukki district bordering Tamil Nadu.What followed was a series of videos by consumers who claimed that eggs they bought were hard to crack and om elettes they made were hard and rubbery (which is in any case the natural state of omelettes). Similar complaints were received from West Bengal and other parts of the country in the following months. So far, no test has shown any plastic content in the egg samples collected.
 
