KOLKATA: With escalating,   boring holes into the  ,   (KMC) is desperately looking to shore up its revenues and put a   on avoidable expenditure. With rough estimates pegging the KMC's budgetary deficit at the end of financial year 2017-18 was over Rs 1246.60 crore, civic bosses haven't ruled out jacking up building sanction fee, trade licence fee and entertainment tax -on hotels, restaurants, and cricket matches -to plug the deficit.

 An urgent note from the controller of municipal finance and accounts, Debatosh Dasgupta, on the civic body's financial health to the KMC municipal commissioner, Khalil Ahmed, paints a very worrying picture. This huge deficit will definitely hit expansion and modernization of city's essential services including water supply, conservancy and sewerage and drainage system. 
 
 Worse, a month after introduction of Unit Area Assessment (UAA) for revenue generation of the KMC has suffered a setback with the new method of property valuation creating confusion among the tax payers which found resonance in less-than-projected tax collections. UAA was rolled out in April replacing the old rental based method of assessment but it has deepened the crisis.
 
 The looming financial crisis had prompted a worried Ahmed to issue a circular asking the civic officials not only to cut corners on unnecessary expenditure but also to augment property tax collection.The KMC top brass is so desperate on augmenting revenue that enhancement of building sanction fee, trade license fee entertainment tax is not ruled out, said a KMC revenue department official. In fact, in his circular, Ahmed expressed apprehension over the ever increasing gap between earning and expenditure.
 
 The note from the KMC finance department made it clear that if the civic authorities failed to check escalating expenditure it will pave in for collapse of city's essential services. The officials are particu larly worried about unplanned expenditure. “From installation of decorative and high mast lights to pavement beautification and installation of roadside railings to hiring vehicles -everything has made a negative impact and dented the civic coffer in a major way,“ conceded a KMC revenue department official.
 
 As an instance how indiscriminate installation of decorative lights (trident and now chain lights) has escalated electricity bills -according to figures by the finance department. It shows that the electricity bills is Rs 35 crore a month in 2017 compared to Rs 16 crore a month in 2012. This, however, isn't the only problem.
 
 The unchecked recruitment of KMC casual workers has led the monthly wage bill to touch Rs 20 crore. Similarly , use of hired vehicles has also made the civic coffer weaker.From Rs 10 crore in 2012, the increase in hired vehicles (cars meant for KMC officers) has doubled in 2017. The KMC pays for 500 cars for its officers from the rank of deputy managers.
 
