AHMEDABAD: Prithvivallabh Mathuriya, 28, native of Agra (UP) and currently a resident of   was dealing in online platforms and was interested in technology as a student of BSc back home. When demonetization opened the floodgates for electronic payments, primarily through cards, Mathuriya saw an opportunity and came across a few instances of ‘skimming’ where crooks had managed to glean data from debit or credit cards by swiping the magnetic strip into the reader.

 “He searched online and managed to get the skimmer which he tried on his own card successfully. He then came to   and partnered with his cousin, Sandeep Kumar Thakur, alias Sunny, 27, a resident of Chandkheda, to forge a 50-50 partnership,” a crime branch   official said. 
 
 “The duo then worked methodically and ‘employed’ attendants at petrol pumps, major stores and malls to put the skimmers to good use,” the police officer said. 
 
 As the number of skimmers went up from 1 to 3, the group managed to get data from 159 cards. One of the accused actually worked at multiple petrol pumps over the months so that he could get more card data. The accomplice used to see the punching of PIN and memorize it to use it with the card. 
 
 Talking about the detection, Rajdeepsinh Zala, ACP (crime), said that they had found an unusually high number of transactions around Chandkheda which became the first clue. 
 
 “The ATMs were used to withdraw money from the cloned cards especially in the night hours. The CCTV footage showed a masked person using the card. They used to choose the time near midnight so that they could swipe twice covering two days,” Zala said.
 
 Police found out that Thakur’s father is posted in Chandkheda police station. Hence, he had found it convenient to operate from the area.
 
 Police said the crooks played smart by not using the card for at least a month after the cloning so that the exact place where it is cloned could not be pinpointed and they used it at faraway ATMs, (in some instances, in Rajasthan) to avoid suspicion. 
 
 BOX
 
 
 
 
 Police have arrested  , 21;  , 27 (both residents of Shahpur) and Shivam Vaghela, 23, a resident of Chandkheda, along with Mathuriya and Thakur. In the past one year, the group has cloned over 100 cards and is suspected to have withdrawn over Rs 25 lakh from accounts of 20 different banks. The team has seized two hard discs with card data, 18 credit/debit cards, three skimmers and other documents from the accused. Police said that the accused were active at petrol pumps located in Bhat, Helmet crossroads, Judges bungalow, Bopal and a shop located at Mansi crossroads. 
 
