PANAJI: In a near reversal of his decision to hand over   cases to the civil courts in 2014, chief minister   on Wednesday promised to appoint special mamlatdars to fast track these cases in the state. The move is likely to give relief to tenants across the state and is expected to come into effect once panchayat polls are over.

 “Our government is working to have special mamlatdars and fast track courts to clear pending cases. The file is being vetted by the law department and then cases will come back to the mamlatdars,” Parrikar said on the sidelines of the launch of an e-governance platform.
 
 The state government is likely to fix a time period within which the   will have to conclude hearings in a tenancy case or else the matter would be transferred to the civil  .
 
 Minister for revenue Rohan Khaunte recently said that the government was working to transfer the cases back to the mamlatdar’s office while simultaneously ensuring that the cases do not get stuck there, and that hearings begin within 15 days after cases are transferred.
 
 On September 25, 2014, the Goa Agriculture Tenancy (Amendment) Act was brought into force, transferring tenancy cases to civil courts in a bid to reduce the over 4,000 pending cases. Another addition to the act was clause 60C known as the ‘sunset clause’, which put a time frame of three years for a person to apply for tenancy declaration. All these moves had drawn flak, especially from Rohan Khaunte, Govind Gavde and Vijai Sardesai who are today part of the Parrikar-led coalition government.
 
 Resolving the tenancy issue is part of the common minimum programme for the BJP’s allies in the current government.
 
 Most   candidates who lost the 2017 assembly polls, pinned the blame on the 2014 amendment of the law that saw judicial magisterate first class courts (JMFC) hearing tenancy cases.
 
 Prior to the elections, Gaude had accused the state government of making the hands of landlords strong by giving them the rights of land possessed by tenants through the amendment of the Act.
 
 
