Indians are among the top asylum seekers in New Zealand (NZ), shows a recent OECD report on migration. And it is among the countries with the most immigration applicants in Australia, Finland, Japan, Latvia, Slovak Republic, the UK and US as well, according to 2016 data.

 According to the   2017 report by   OECD, comprising 35 member-countries, between 2012 and 2016 top asylum seekers to NZ were from China, India, Fiji and Iraq.
 
 Indians have been applying for asylum in more than 40 countries for several years now, according to the office of the   High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). Indians stranded in places such as Cisarua in Indonesia, a refugee hub, have even attempted to travel by boat to NZ.
 
 In 2015 and 2016, OECD countries recorded the highest number of asylum applications since the World War II.And, almost half of the asylum seekers originated from three countries -Syria, Afghanistan and Iraq. Other applicants came from Pakistan, Iran and Sub-Saharan Africa.
 
 But why does India figure on this list when the political and the economic situation in the country is relatively better than those mentioned above? Reasons vary , say experts, ranging from students overstaying their visas, low skilled job seekers to refugees seeking resettlement.
 
 “Anyone can ask for asylum but it may not be granted. People might apply when they are caught trying to cross a border illegally,"says Jonathan Chaloff, policy analyst, International Migration Division at OECD. Asked if Indian students who overstayed their visas could have applied for asylum, he says, “Yes, because it delays deportation. They have a chance of staying. They are also able to extend their stay while they wait for their application to be processed, even if it's rejected,“ he adds.
 
 
 
 In Latvia, a small country in Europe, with a population of around two million, of the 6,200 registered international students in 2015-16, the largest proportion was from India and Uzbekistan, at 18% each. Last year, the OECD report says, 20 Indians requested for asylum in Latvia.“In Latvia there were 20 applications for asylum, and there were 20 Indians caught trying to cross the border. They might be the same people,“ says Chaloff.
 
 Vidya Mahambare, associate professor, economics and finance, Great Lakes Institute of Management in Chennai, explains, “Asylum seekers from India may not be in the high-skilled category .They may not have been able to get into good universities abroad and this may be their only alternative. India is a laboursurplus country . Some may be looking for low-end jobs abroad,“ she added.
 
 Some may just be cases of overstaying, says migration expert Irudaya Rajan S, professor at the Centre for Development Studies in Thiruvananthapuram. “Students complete their education, want to stay on, say they are facing problems in their home country and try and become asylum seekers,“ he says. In countries such as Indonesia, where Indians get visas on arrival, Rajan feels that some could try and manipulate the situation in search of what they believe is a “better life“.
 
 
 
 
 Gladston Xavier, head of the department of social work, Loyola College, has worked with Sri Lankan refugees in India for several years. Indians migrate for economic reasons, but sometimes, he says, “there is a bit of insecurity“. By and large, he says, “India is not a refugee producing state, we receive refugees“.
 
 Xavier says the number of applications for asylum may be high, but success rate may not be. “They have to prove threat to life because of race, religion, political belief, political affiliations or gender. If not, the Refugee Status Branch will turn down the request or keep the decision pending,“ he says. There have been many genuine cases of asylum seekers like celebrities and journalists whose lives are under threat.
 
 “Some Sri Lankan refugees have gone on  , or illegal visas or on an Indian passport. Or some destroy their passport en route and claim they lost it. The authorities then find it difficult to identify their nationality . There is also a huge  ,“ he says.
 
 “In Latvia, though the education is cheap, many of the degrees are not valid yet. Still, it helps Indian students to get a toehold in Europe,“ says Xavier.
 
