KOLKATA: Partha Roy from Northern Avenue had planned to buy 70gm jewellery for his brother's wedding. On hearing that the international price of   had dropped by Rs 1,200 per 10gm, he was elated as India imported 75% of its gold and so, he thought the rate would decrease here, too. In fact, hoping to save at least Rs 7,200, he even planned to buy a microwave oven with it. But a visit to a jewellery store left him disappointed as 3% Goods and Services Tax pushed down the price by only Rs 300 a gm. Similar was the disappointment for   resident Mohan Roy (50), who had hoped to save around Rs 5,000 from his earlier budget to buy 60gm gold.

 The 3%   on gold translated into 2% rise in the incidence of tax. Earlier, gold purchase would attract 1% excise duty and 1% VAT, while the excise was applicable only for jewellery houses that had a turnover of Rs 12 crore. Samar Kumar De, working president of Swarna Shilpa Bachao Committee in Kolkata, said, “Earlier, 85% jewellery houses paid 1% VAT only. The excise duty was not applicable to them. Now with 3% GST, there is no clear mention of the division of tax provided by the government though we have started charging GST. The gold market is at a recession period right now. The change will be apparent only after a month or so.“ Pankaj Parekh, president of Bullion and Jewellers' Associations, said, “There was a major correction of international gold price in June. The drop in rate should have been around Rs 1,200 per 10gm but the actual fall is Rs 300. So, owing to GST, customers will lose around Rs 900 per 10gm, and won;t be able to reap any benefit from the international price drop.“
 
 Confusion ruled the gold hub at Bowbazar. “I have requested our government to provide us with a clear impression of the GST but did not receive any feedback,“ said De, adding the market remained mostly empty over the past couple of days.
 
 Owner of Subhas Jewellers' at Bowbazar Dipankar Dutta pointed out that the real effect of the new tax regime would be evident before the wedding season. “Given the rise in tax, customers will limit their purcha se,“ he said.
 
 A resident of Tangra Housing, Tapan Kumar Sen (63), who visited a jewellery shop to buy a chain, sounded exasperated: “It is mainly affecting the middle class like us. As gold is always an expensive commodity, the rise in tax will push up people's wedding budget.“
 
 But a visit to a small gold workshop at Bowbazar showed the new tax regime did not have any effect on manufacturers. “We don't charge tax on our products as we directly distribute them to retailers. They are the ones who put the price tags,“ one of them said.
 
 
 
 
 
