Pune: Women and Child Development (WCD) minister minister Pankaja Munde told TOI that she has asked her department to close down private homes that have been given a C or a D grade. The gradation was done two years back where 963 homes were checked by the WCD officials and graded as per the rules laid down to operate these homes. Munde said that there were several privately-run homes by NGOs that were not following the norms and still operating. She told TOI that a circular will be issued and the WCD officials can take action against such homes that were not following the rules. The report on the grading that has been done on 963 children’s homes in the state, has found nearly 214 of them fall in the “non-performing category”. These can be shut down if the final order comes from the state government. Homes that scored between 90 and 100 per cent were placed in category A, those that scored between 80 and 90 per cent in category B, and homes scoring less than 80 per cent in category C. The WCD has 1003 child protection care homes in the state, out of them most are privately operated and only 40 are government-run institutions. The minister further said that many of the privately operated homes were housing children who were there only for education purpose. “The observation homes are for destitute children or children in conflict with law. Those children who do not fall in this category should be taken care of by the education department and kept in hostels,” she said. Incidentally, the Woman and Child Development Department (WCD) is facing more than 800 cases in various local courts in the state from private child care protection homes for non-payment of grants. The WCD officials had maintained that these child care protection homes are not abiding by the Juvenile Justice (JJ) Act to operate such homes and have demanded that the government take stringent action against these institutions. As per the JJ Act, children’s homes should have a decent space for reception, attached bathing and toilet facilities and have minimum boarding and lodging facilities, and provide basic needs in terms of clothing, food, healthcare, nutrition, education, vocational training and recreation. At present, the government pays Rs 900 per month per child and only if all the details are explained by these homes can the grant be issued to them. Officials from the department have stated when these privately operated child protection care homes were asked to provide the details of the facilities they were not able to provide them and so the government was unable to issue grants, which prompted the institutions to approach local courts for issuance of grants.