TRICHY: Parents of the children lodged in the controversial   home, have urged the Trichy district administration to form a committee as per the court order, to facilitate the reunion of the parents and children at the earliest, in Trichy on Tuesday. The parents are concerned that any delay on the part of the government would give room for pastor Gideon Jacob to influence the girls to remain at the home. 

 Parents of ten inmates of the home in  , travelled from Usilampatti to meet district collector Dr KS Palanisamy. They urged him to ensure the committee is formed at the earliest. A total of 89 girls, reportedly rescued from   in Usilampatti, have been staying at the illegal home run by Gideon Jacob. A case against the unregistered home led to the identification of the parents of the 32 children through DNA test last year.
 
 Unable to meet the collector yesterday, they met the district social welfare office (DSWO), Trichy S Usha on Tuesday and expressed their desire to unite with the children at the earliest.
 
 “It has been two and half months since the court passed the final order which allowed the major girls to decide on their future. The court also ordered the social welfare department to form a committee to execute the order. But no action has been taken so far. We are confused about the delay. When we met the officials, there was no concrete reply from them about the formation of the committee,” said M  , 32 from Mekkilaarpatti near Usilampatti. She is the eldest sister of one of the major girls in the home. Her parents are Muniappan and Mookkammal. 
 
 The court passed the order on November 30, 2012 but it made the copy of the order available two months later after which the social welfare department in Chennai took a long time to send a proposal to the district collector to form a committee to execute the court order. 
 
 Parents fear that further delay might give room for the children to change their mind about reuniting with them. “Our minor daughter was very eager to join our family a few months ago. But now, she seems to have changed her mind. I firmly believe that she is being influenced by the people who are running the home,” said K Eswari, 42 from Buskaranpatti in Usilampatti. 
 
 Commenting on the matter, DSWO Usha said that they got the order from the social welfare deparement in Chennai recently and would form the committee based on the instruction from the district collector. 
 
