Nagpur: A large number of farmers in remote villages of Vidarbha probably would not have been able to apply for loan waiver to government if helping computer centre operators like Sunil Vethe had not lent them their e-mail addresses.  Kishore Tiwari, chief of Vasantrao Naik Shetkari Swavalamban Mission (VNSSM), the state government task force on agriculture, said, in several rural pockets, farmers did not have an e-mail account at all. A substantial number of them did not have a mobile phone too. Having an e-mail and mobile phone were the two basic requirements for beginning the process to apply for the waiver scheme. In a number of places, operators at designated community service centres lent their e-mail and phone numbers. The online applications could be made through such centres. Vethe manned the centre at Gram Panchayat office of Adni village in Yavatmal district along NH 7. He said the centre catered to two more villages — Munjala and Sonarli. Nearly 80% of the 430 farmers who came to apply for loan waiver did not have an e-mail ID and close to 30% were without mobile phone. They could not even register in the system without these. A user-ID and password had to be created on the basis of which application was further processed at the aapley sarkar portal. “The work had to go on, so I logged in using my e-mail ID and my phone number. He gave each one same password while the username was their Aadhaar number. In two cases, the biometric data did not match but all the rest had proper Aadhaar verification,” Vethe told TOI. User ID and password are needed to get further information about waiver. Farmers would not have been able to even apply for the scheme had he not done this. This has happened at other centres too. Operators had to do that to help the farmers, he said. “Ours is a tribal belt and farmers here could not be expected to have an e-mail account. Some came with their relatives’ mobile numbers as they did not have a phone of their own,” he said. Vethe said, in his centre around 75% of the applications were for loan waiver and rest for cash prize for timely repayment. Tiwari said he witnessed similar instances in districts like Buldhana too.  Vethe, who hails from Adni village, has been engaged by a private firm at the centre and draws a salary of Rs6,000/month. He got the job last year after brief periods of unemployment. His father, who owns land in the Adni village, too has applied for waiver.