Bathinda: After poet Surjit Gagg was arrested for blasphemy for his poem about Guru Nanak Dev, book of eminent Punjabi writer and Sahitya Akademi awardee Baldev Singh Sadaknama, about the life of Sikh ruler Maharaja Ranjit Singh, is fetching him brickbats and abuses. Sadaknama is also getting threats on Facebook for his newly-written book ‘Suraj Di Akkh’ (eye of sun).

 It is alleged that some comments recorded in the book put Maharaja Ranjit Singh in a bad light, the fact the writer conceded, adding that those comments were historically correct and not a figment of his imagination.
 
 Sadaknama has expressed sorrow at the abusive and threatening language used against him in the social media but has preferred not to approach the police in the matter. Apart from Sadaknama, another Punjabi writer Varinder Diwana and poet Sant Ram Udasi’s daughter Iqbal Kaur Udasi are also getting threats for some of their writings.
 
 Sources said the intelligence wing of the Punjab police had alerted the Barnala district police to remain vigilant to keep the writers out of harm’s way.
 
 Sadaknama (75), who got Sahitya Akademi in 2011 for his novel ‘Dhaawan Dilli de Kingre,’ belongs to Chand Nawaa village in Moga whereas Varinder hails from Diwana village in Barnala and Iqbal Kaur Udasi stays at Barnala.
 
 One member of a hardline Sikh organization, on condition of anonymity, said, “In his book, Sadaknama has tried to portray Sikhs in a bad light. He has also tried to show that Ranjit Singh was not a true Sikh and has raised questions over his character. It is intolerable.”
 
 Meanwhile, Sadakama said, “I have exhaustively researched on the life of Maharaja Ranjit Singh and authored the book on historical facts. Some points in the book have not resonated well with a few people with a radical approach. They have used threatening and using abusive language against me on Facebook. I have asked all those writing against me to come for a debate and find fault in my writings. I stand by what I have written about the Maharaja and have historical writings to prove that. Many of the writers stand with me.”
 
 Diwana said it was like another form of intolerance. “Many people with radical approach who do not like our writings are abusing and threatening us. But they can’t stop us from writing as per our choice,” he said.
 
 When contacted, Barnala senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harjit Singh said, “We have some intelligent inputs that a couple of writers in the district have got threats on social media. Police are looking into it and have asked them to be vigilant and inform us if they suspect anything wrong.”
 
 NGO to seek bail for Gagg
 
 Bathinda: Punjab Lok Sabhyacharak Manch, an NGO, is making efforts to get poet Surjit Gagg bailed. Manch president Amolak Singh said Gagg’s bail had been rejected by the lower court at Anandpur Sahib and they were trying to approach sessions court at Ropar. He said like-minded organisations were thinking to raise the issue of his arrest at the highest level because it is another form of intolerance.
 
 
