KOCHI: Strongly criticizing the serial political killings in the state, especially in northern districts, the high court has said that political parties are forgetting the fact that divergent ideologies are part of a democratic setup.
After considering an appeal filed by four BJP workers accused of murdering a CPM activist, the court said in the judgment: “Recurring overt acts by members of certain political parties at some parts of the state, especially in some northern districts, eloquently disseminate a message that human lives are less worthier than a political ideology . Annihilation of political opponents has become an order of the day , ignoring the fact that divergent political ideologies are natural in a democratic polity with a multiparty system. Besides, the proponents of the philosophy forget the reality that an ideology , worth its name, should exist for the upliftment, welfare and wellbeing of mankind. Political killings by using arms and explosives are acts of barbarity .“
 
 The appeal considered by the court was related to the murder of CPM worker Areekkal Ashokan on December 5, 2000, a hartal day . The attack occurred a year after the killing of   state leader KT Jayakrishnan.Mottammal Shaji alias Kakka Shaji, K Sajith alias Aasha Sajith, Mullan Kunnummal Uthaman, and   were the first, second, third, and fourth accused, respectively .
 
 On March 29, 2012, a sessions court at Thalassery had sentenced the accused to life imprisonment for the murder. The sessions court's judgment was set aside by the high court and the accused were acquitted after finding that prosecution failed to establish the guilt of the appellants beyond a reasonable doubt.
 
 While parting with the case, the court said, “One more soul in aserial political killing goes unavenged due to unskilled investigation and faulty prosecution.Victims (martyrs, as the parties may call them for political gain) of political murders are from the rank and file. Those who are in the higher echelons ...remain safe and secure. They celebrate martyr's days and shed crocodile tears.“
 
