NASHIK: The cases of rash drivers hitting pedestrians and motorists and leaving them unattended are becoming frequent in the city. 

 Approximately 20% of the total accidents registered by the city police this year are hit-and-run cases. This year, the police registered 224 road accidents between January 1 and March 31, of which, 49 mishaps are hit-and-run cases. As many as 16 people lost their lives in these cases and another 31 suffered injuries, police data shows. 
 
 On Monday, the police registered five road accidents in the city. While one registered with the   police was a fatal incident, the remaining four registered with the Indiranagar, Ambad, Satpur and Adgaon police stations caused injuries. 
 
 In the case registered by the Indiranagar police station, 45-year-old Narayan Nanhesingh, resident of Koliwada, Vilholi village, riding a bike, was hit by another bike at around 3.30am on Monday in the Pathardi village area. 
 
 Narayan Nanhesingh stated in his complaint that the motorcycle rider knocked him down and escaped the scene without informing anyone about the  . His wife also suffered head injury in the accident.
 
 Officials of the city traffic department said such cases had become very common in the city. “Hit-and-run cases are common. Motorists escape the scene out of fear of facing police action or getting beaten up by the public. This happens all through the day across the city,” said an official. 
 
 He said that motorists involved in such accidents should take the victims to the hospital and inform the police. The approach of the police towards motorists, who have taken the trouble of rushing the victim to hospital and informing the police, is also sympathetic, he said. 
 
 Many other officials said they have also come across cases in which the victims have decided against lodging complaint against the accused when they were rushed to the hospital by the latter. In many cases, the accused also end up paying the hospital bill and even the damage of vehicles that has incurred. 
 
 The police said the rush of vehicles was rising on the city roads and was a major cause of the accidents taking place in large numbers. 
 
 
