PATNA: Unlike many other states, urban local body (ULB) elections in Bihar are not fought on party lines. However, many activists attached with political parties contest the polls. Social workers, traders and contractors, who want to get a foot into the political ring, too throw in the hat.

 With the chorus for conduct of urban local body election on party lines growing in the state, TOI talked to functionaries of various political parties to know their views. While most of the functionaries of Mahagathbandhan said political parties should be kept away from such elections,   netas were of the opinion that inclusion of political parties in civic poll process will ensure accountability.
 
 Leader of opposition in legislative council   said ULB elections should be fought on party lines to end corruption. “The people’s representatives will perform more efficiently if these elections are conducted on party lines,” Modi said. He claimed in the event of urban local body election on party lines today, BJP will capture all the seats because of its grassroots presence in the state. Modi said even chief minister   was in favour of ULB elections on party basis when he was with NDA.
 
 However, JD (U) MLC and party’s spokesperson Neeraj Kumar, had a different take on the issue. “When BJP was with us, it never supported the ULB election on party lines. In fact, when the issue was discussed in 2005, the BJP had opposed it. The current model ULB election, under which individual merit of candidates is paramount, has been quite successful in the state. Once political partiers enter the system, merit of individuals will take a back seat and a few candidates will get undue advantage,” Neeraj said.
 
 Recalling an all-party meet over the issue in 2005, Congress spokesperson Harkhu Jha said it was unanimously decided that ULB elections will not be fought on party lines in the. “Our stand remains the same even today,” he added.
 
 RJD’s   too echoed Jha’s tone, saying there was no need to fight ULB election on party lines in the state.
 
