Since time immemorial, Kochi has been a melting pot of cultures. From a trading port to a metro city and now in the list of smart cities of India, the city has been witnessing a meteoric rise over the last five years. As Kochi Times celebrates its fifth anniversary today, we raise a toast to the five best things that are a matter of pride for every Kochi resident. 

 
 
 
 Launched in 2012, the international exhibition of contemporary art put Kochi in the map of art lovers from across the globe. Currently into its third edition, the exhibition set in spaces across Kochi, Muziris and surrounding islands, opened up the world of contemporary art to Malayalis and made them understand that there are farther horizons to art beyond Raja Ravi Varma.
 
 Bose Krishnamachari, Co-Founder of Kochi Biennale Foundation tells us, “From ground level to international level, it is one of the greatest projects that has happened in South India. It made everyone in Kerala an art buff. Above all, it is inspiring international artists too. It’s a matter of pride that the Yinchuan Biennale in North-West China was inspired by ours.” 
 
 
 Think of Kochi and the first image that pops up in one’s mind would be the silhouette of the huge cantilevered Chinese fishing nets that droop towards the water like hammocks! It is just not an image for those who love Kochi, the fishermen using it by bellowing chants is an age-old custom of the city. Former Kochi Mayor Sohan Lal says that Kochi’s Chinese fishing nets are what the Eiffel Tower is to Paris. “Cheenavala is a living monument and it will have a thousand stories to narrate about the transformation of Kochi, from that of a port city to a metro.”
 
 
 
 
 History sleeps on the narrow roads and bustling streets of Fort Kochi, which is a mélange of many cultures and languages. A proud native of Fort Kochi, actor Vinay Forrt tells us, “Fort Kochi is authentic in its own ways. The place showcases Portuguese architecture, ancient mosques, a 400-year-old synagogue and the relics of British Raj. Each of the sights here has something to convey, from the carnival to the painted streets. Mattancherry and Fort Kochi proudly stand as the bridge between the ancient and urban Ernakulam.”
 
 
 
 The long stretch of Subash Park, Marine Drive and Queens Walkway in Kochi offers an uninterrupted view of the Vembanad Lake. The well-maintained park, the lake facing promenade and the relaxing area has everything to attract visitors even from abroad. Former Mayor Tony Chammany says, “Public spaces are drivers of urban prosperity. Marine Drive brings a sense of community to the urban Kochi. It encourages the residents and the tourists to take a stroll in a public space rather than constrain themselves to gated communities.”
 
 
 With its booming economy and bustling city life, Kochi would soon be home to India’s eighth Metro rail service. Just three more months left to start functioning, the Metro is a symbol of pride for every Kochiite. E Sreedharan, the man behind the project has earlier told us, “Kochi Metro, when completed will bring a total change in the travel habit and travel style of the people. The city will have relief from high pollution and traffic jams. Since using a Metro will need discipline and orderliness this culture will spread to the entire city.
