KOLKATA: Two   from Kolkata are among the 20 who have bagged a 100 percentile in the   (CAT) for   that was announced on Monday .

 Avidipto Chakraborty is a student of computer engineering at BITS Pilani, Goa, while Nilanjan Dutta, who already holds an MBA degree from XLRI and is employed with an IT company , had taken the examination just to test his abilities.
 
 This is the city's best result since 2014, when one aspirant had achieved a hundred percentile. As many as 92 aspirants have bagged scores above 99 percentile this year.
 
 The second highest score from the state -99.99 percentile -is that of Ayush Saraf, who has just completed his BCom from Calcutta University . Ananya Mishra, a student of metallurgical engineering at   , is the probable topper among girls in the state with a score of 99.89 percentile.
 
 Talking to TOI, Avidipto and Nilanjan credited the innumerable mock tests they took for their scores.
 
 “This was my first attempt for CAT. I appeared for as many as 86 mock tests at various training institutes.Since the test this year was rather difficult, the level of difficulty was increased in the Verbal Ability and Quantitative Aptitude section.Since I had taken the mock tests, I could adapt myself to the situation,“ said Avidipto, who is currently interning at Nomura. The alumnus of Assembly of God Church School wants to pursue a career in consulting. A vidipto already has a job offer from Mckinsey and would like to get through to IIM-Ahmedabad, which has a deferment program that allows students to join two years later. “In that case I can earn considerable job experience at Mckinsey ,“ said the Salt Lake resident.
 
 Nilanjan, a working professional, still hasn't applied for IIM. “I had appeared in CAT in 2011but was disappointed with my score of 99.43 percentile. Many of my friends who've already graduated from top B-schools took the test this year to test their abilities and so did I,“ he said. He too believes that mock tests can be a key to success.
 
 Ayush Saraf, is among the few toppers who is not from an engineering background. The Calcutta University commerce graduate is currently pursuing a CA course. “I would want to join a finance company after completing my MBA,“ he said.
 
 Ananya Mishra, the probable topper among girls, said her preparations centred mainly around mock tests. “At first my mock test scores weren't good enough and this made me even more determined,“ said the South Point alumnus who loves dancing and reading crime novels.
 
