JAIPUR: In the absence of stringent laws all the alleged bookies arrested by the Jaipur police for disturbing peace likely to get released on bail. As per the   Gambling Ordinance the bookies needs to be caught red handed while accepting bets on cricket, other sports or on any election results, however Friday’s case is totally different.

 Senior police officers on Friday said that 18 persons allegedly involved in betting of over multi-crore in assembly election results were arrested late on Thursday night. It was alleged that these persons had come to the state capital to attend a ‘meeting' to discuss the heavy losses incurred following the  's unprecedented victory in   polls.
 
 Six out of 18 had already applied for bail and got it as all of them were booked under section 151 of CRPC. 
 
 “They were never been booked under sections of Rajasthan Gambling ordinance as for that you need to catch them red-handed. In this particular case they were discussing the mathematics after the debacle in Uttar Pradesh elections and were actually disturbing peace. Thus, we had to book them under section 151 of CRPC,” said a senior police officer on Saturday. 
 
 Police officers too admitted that rest 12 will also get bail. “There is a clear provision of bail in section 151 CRPC. But, these arrests are important mainly because many prominent bookies have come to our radar for the first time. At least whenever there would be cricket matches or other activity we can keep a tab on their activities,” said an officer. 
 
 12 persons who were booked for alleged betting and disturbing peace will for bail and likely to get it. However police said that Thursday’s arrest are important for many reasons. “We have also recovered their statements in which too they have confessed that they were discussing on the money transactions and the problems they are facing after BJP has won UP elections with a huge margin contrary to their speculation of 185-190 seats,” the officer added. 
 
 According to the police, the kingpins of the racket' had refused to make outstanding payments to bookies after the election results. This triggered panic among bookies who called a meeting at a hotel to prepare a further strategy. However, the main kingpins did not come to attend the meeting.
 
 
