It was past 6.30 in the evening. Vehicles whizzed past continuously as I walked close to the bridge barrier of the second  , the same route that   had allegedly taken moments prior to her death. Passersby stared at me as they went by wondering what was I up to.

 A passenger riding shotgun in a  , who would have probably sighted me a couple of seconds prior to reaching next to me ­ given the vantage point owing to the height of the vehicle ­particularly asked via gestures if I was thinking of jumping, though jokingly. Another person, a doorkeeper of a  , who had his head outside the door also motioned inquiringly as of why I am standing there. More prying eyes followed when I stopped strolling and paused at a gap in the bridge barrier, staring at the waters beneath, but none pulled over. An auto rickshaw driver even slowed down and looked back several times, but left without halting.
 
 In the unused bridge just a couple of metres opposite to the point I was standing were two men, who watched me from a distance till the point I was walking; however, neither of them alerted police or pink patrol as was gathered by my colleague who later talked to them posing as another wayfarer who saw a girl walking across the bridge. “I saw a girl wearing a   walking over that bridge and was wondering why. I watched her for a while and I left. What could I do? She must have crossed the bridge and left, I don't know,“ one of the men said.
 
 Another passerby, a driver of a lorry parked nearby notified a colleague of mine, who accompanied me. “Did you see a girl walking to the bridge now?“ he asked, but again left the question there without any answers or further queries.
 
 All this transpired within a span of five to seven minutes. To base the hypothesis of Mishele jumping off the very bridge on the statement of a single eyewitness, who does not even have a third person to corroborate the claim, when according to the experiment carried out by the TOI team a minimum of 50 people would have seen her if she had indeed been there, appears shady.
 
