AURANGABAD: Dr   (Bamu) has failed to embark upon the research work as expected by the   (SEC). The reason the university cited was lack of funding. 

 The poll panel in July last year had prevailed upon various   in Maharashtra to undertake research in connection with the conduct of over 500 elections to different local self-governing bodies. 
 
 The political science, public administration and mass communication and journalism departments were expected to undertake research projects in identified areas. While much is being talked about the need of universities emerging as research hubs, the SEC had come forward to give necessary push to achieve the purpose in real. 
 
 Shriram Nikam, head of the political science department, said lack of funding proved a roadblock in carrying out research work as asked by the poll panel. “The university administration refused to shell out any money for undertaking desired research. Funds are needed for groundwork and related activities,”he said. 
 
 Satish Dandage, head of the public administration department, said faculties also refrained from research work due to funding issue. “We tried to find some way-out and asked MPhill students to undertake desired research. A group of around 17 students has been entrusted with research work as expected by the poll panel,” he said. 
 
 The SEC, in continuation with its three meetings held last year with vice-chancellors of state universities, had shot off a letter to asking them for undertaking research on at least nine research projects. The communications clearly mentioned that expected research should be undertaken by universities at their own expense.
 
 Sudhir Gavhane, head of the mass communication and journalism department, said research is a scientific process and cannot be completed in short-span as expected by the poll panel. “Also, the election commission should have allotted some funds to give boost to its initiative,”he said, adding that university departments were committed to research work in various disciplines.
 
 The SEC had divided research areas broadly into three categories namely pre-poll, during poll and Post counting. The first category includes topics such as voters’ expectations, disliking of voters and promising candidates who can deliver good governance. 
 
