NAKODAR: As the   (AAP) organised its first major state-level function after the polls to thank party volunteers, all leaders praised  , with state party affairs in-charge Sanjay Singh even declaring him ‘Hero of Punjab election’. AAP Punjab convenor   said Mann worked more than any other leader. Sanjay said Mann worked very hard, and even addressed 10 rallies in a day. “He would start addressing rallies in the morning, and would continue till late in the night. There was only one leader who could address so many rallies in a day,” he said.

 After praises were showered on him, Mann said people had recorded his speeches, and now the party would have to ensure all promises were met so that he does not face the ‘dalle’ (brickbats). He claimed AAP would get 55 seats in the Malwa region alone. Mann is considered among the front-runners for the chief minister’s post, and his supporters have been openly projecting him as a CM candidate.
 
 All speakers said they were sure the party would come to power. Senior leader HS Phoolka said real ‘safai’ (cleaning) would start after March 11, and party volunteers needed to prepare for that from now itself. Other senior leaders Kanwar Sandhu and Sukhpal Khaira also addressed the gathering, and all of them profusely thanked the volunteers. Sandhu stressed there should not be any infighting after the victory. “Earlier, rivalry between Union home minister Giani Zail Singh and CM Darbara Singh had cost Punjab dear, and the state suffered a lot,” he said.
 
 FREE TREATMENT FOR ADDICTS
 
 Meanwhile, AAP also launched a state-wide campaign to get rehabilitation forms filled by drug addicts to enable them to get free treatment at de-addiction centres. “Our volunteers would go door to door, and this exercise would be completed within a week,” said AAP leaders HS Phoolka and Sanjay Singh, while addressing a press conference at Jalandhar.
 
 “As our party had already announced a crackdown on drug supplies immediately after coming to power, at the same time we want to ensure all drug addicts get timely and free treatment. So, we have launched this campaign,” said Phoolka. They said party MLAs would also keep a close vigil at the de-addiction centre, and at the programme. Responding to a query, Sanjay said the party would ensure information gathered about addicts remains a secret.
 
