Noida: The residents of the city could soon expect some relief from rude and extorting parking attendants and contractors in the city. The   on Monday decided to hand over the parking management system in the city to Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System Ltd (DIMTS) or similar agencies with immediate effect.

 Rama Raman, principal secretary (industries) and chairperson of Noida Authority, has directed officials to immediately issue notices to all parking contractors in Noida. “After examining each contract for legal clauses, we will terminate the contracts,”  , CEO, Noida Authority, told TOI. “Legal procedure will be followed and contracts will be ended in an organised manner so that no one is inconvenienced,” he said. Once DIMTS, a Delhi government agency that works on transport projects, is appointed for the purpose, parking facilities are set to get streamlined on the lines of parking being done in the capital city, officials said.
 
 According to officials, DIMTS had conducted detailed surveys of the city across residential, institutional, industrial and commercial sectors to draw up the parking management plan in January last year. “Once finalised, a streamlined parking management system will be in place,” Raman said.
 
 The move follows repeated complaints by vehicle owners about the overbearing attitude of parking contractors in Noida, Raman said. “The focus of appointing DIMTS or a similar agency will also be on doing away with illegal parking. Currently, there are 44 authorised parking sites in Noida handled by nearly 30 contractors but there is rampant unauthorised parking in the city,” he said.
 
 On Monday, Raman reviewed the under-construction multilevel parking facility in Sector 18 which is facing an inordinate delay. “We have been directed to issue of show-cause notice to the contractor constructing the facility asking why the contract should not be terminated,” Agarwal said. 
 
 According to officials, the facility can accomodate a total of 3,085 vehicles.
 
