NAGPUR: “When an appliance breaks down, one wonders what went wrong. In the process of fixing the machine, he learns the basic technology behind it,” said  , president of  . He was explaining the central idea behind unique scientific exhibition ‘KUTUHAL’ on Saturday.

 The two-day event, organized Vijnana Bharati on the premises of  , North  , was inaugurated by former vice-chancellor of Nagpur University Vinayak Deshpande. Director of Raman Science Centre Dr Ramdas Iyer, principal Akhilesh Peshwe, Shashikant Chaudhari and lawyer Ulhas Aurangabadkar were present. Dr Sunil Bhat conducted the programme.
 
 ‘KUTUHAL’ stands for ‘Know, understand, test, use, home appliances and learn’. The exhibition is aimed at demonstrating theoretical principles, working mechanism of various components of commonly used home appliances such as fridge, oven, washing machine and coolers. They also showcased dissembled and reassembled parts of equipment.
 
 Manufacturers like Godrej, LG, HP, Ram Coolers and   participated in the event. Their technical crew equipped with informative audiovisuals, products and components explained the ‘inside story’ of appliances to school students and parents.
 
 Holey said, “Vijnana Bharati is a science movement with swadeshi spirit. Western countries have absorbed science but in order to enlighten our citizens we have to present it in a simple way.”
 
 “Basic science comes before technology”, said secretary Sanjay Wate, adding “We want to give exposure to students and kindle an ambition in their minds to work in the field of science.”
 
 Iyer said that India has a great tradition of scientific knowledge which is evident from continuity of Indian civilization for over five millennia. Deshpande said that such initiatives can foster creativity in students which does not distinguish between rich and the poor.
 
 Students of Dharampeth Science College displayed scientific models and creative handmade articles. Electric PCB drill machine, safety demonstrator, power generation with vehicle transportation and aquariums were among the apparatuses developed by them. Students pursuing home science conducted diet counselling and BMI calculations.
 
 Head of the vocational department Yugal Rayulu said, “Knowledge should be applied to entrepreneurship to serve society.” 
 
