When a young  , who aspired to become an IAS officer, didn’t make it through the   interview, even during his second attempt; he turned his setback into an opportunity. Kanagaraj decided to use the knowledge he had gained during his civil service preparation, to coach students, who nurtured a similar dream. Today, the 47-year-old   coaches more than 250 (which increases to even 500 and more on Sundays) IAS aspirants, free of cost in Coimbatore. He seems to have just one motto- No deserving student should feel bogged down by failures.

 “I began taking classes in my house with a handful of students. When they managed to clear the exams, word spread and more students started approaching me. Soon, there was no room for all these students at my house and I had to look for another place with immediate effect. In the meantime, I had begun conducting special sessions for students at corporation schools and as a goodwill gesture; the Coimbatore Corporation offered me a place that I could use as a center. Students are trained free of cost here.”
 
 Professor P Kanagaraj is an alumnus of Loyola College, Chennai and Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi. He currently heads the Department of Political Science at Government Arts College, Coimbatore. A native of Tanjore, Kanagaraj moved to Coimbatore in 1998, after he was offered a job at the college. He wraps us his work by 1.45 am in the college and heads to the center to teach his students. Apart from IAS coaching, I have also started conducting another programme called Émpowering for India’s Future’, where we train students from a younger age. The idea is to catch them young. In civil services, two-or three years can make a huge difference to your career. If you start early, you could even retire as a cabinet secretary. These sessions are predominantly held at corporation and government run schools and schools for tribal children where students do not have access to study materials and facilities.”
 
 It’s been 8 years professor Kanagaraj’s journey began as a free IAS exam coach (as people fondly address him). More than 70 students have made it through the prestigious civil services examinations and are working across the country, while some abroad as IFS officers. “While I prefer to teach in Tamil at the Government Arts College, I converse in English at the center. Students, who are preparing for these exams need to be fluent in their language and good at communication skills. My students hail from Coimbatore, Tirupur, Ooty and Erode. As the number of students began to increase, I removed the chairs from the class. They sit cross-legged on a carpet. Some of them prefer to stay through the night to study. I cannot afford to hire additional teachers; hence, I have trained my senior students to man the classes when I am busy. In the last 8 years, I would have missed only 8 classes with the students. My family does miss me on Sundays; but, I ensure that once I wrap up my sessions at the college, I spend with them. Fortunately, my wife Vennila is a school teacher and understands the importance of what I am doing. My children are also extremely supportive.”
 
 The academician has also penned books on cracking IAS interview to help his students. “In the books, I have discussed smart strategies to crack civil services interview. It’s my friends, who fund the printing of the books. Today, my senior students who have gone on to become IAS, IFS and IPS officers take guest lectures for the students and share their experience. I worked hard for my IAS exams. But, I do not have regrets for not making it through my IAS interview, thanks to my coaching students.”
 
