PUNE: The Congress, NCP   and the MNS have started a rejig operation following the debacle in the   and heads might roll in the parties, paving the way for a new leadership.

 Accepting the defeat, NCP’s city unit chief and   MP Vandana Chavan submitted her resignation to the party leadership earlier. But senior leaders want Ajit Pawar to dissolve all bodies of the party’s city unit, including youth and women wings, and make new appointments.
 
 The NCP corporators and seniors have written a letter to Pawar, stating the party must appoint new faces having a mass base. “The party needs overhaul, else we shall face a similar debacle in the 2019 Assembly polls. Grassroots workers and leaders must get prominence in the party. In the past few years, the party has been restricted to a few having no mass base,” said a senior NCP leader, who lost in the civic polls.
 
 The Congress’ city unit chief, Ramesh Bagwe, said the city Congress was ready with its report on the loss. “The state leadership will take a call on what changes they want in the city unit,” said Bagwe.
 
 The Congress MLCs and some former corporators demanded that Bagwe must accept responsibility and step down. But Bagwe said he would follow the order of the state Congress president,  .
 
 The Shiv Sena’s city chief, Vinayak Nimhan, is also under immense pressure. Even his son, Chandrashekhar alias Sunny, was defeated in the polls.
 
 A senior Shiv Sena leader said the party should bring back “loyalists” at the forefront. “Nimhan has switched his loyalties frequently. Hence, hardcore Shiv Sainiks never believed in his leadership. The party needs to give reins to former minister Shashikant Sutar,” said the Sena leader, requesting anonymity.
 
 Raj Thackeray’s MNS has been reduced to an insignificant party in the   (PMC). From 29 corporators in 2012 to just two in 2017, the party is now fighting for survival. Facing the challenge of rebuilding the party, Thackeray could be in Pune next week to hold meeting with the leaders.
 
 In contrast, BJP city unit chief Yogesh Gogawale could be rewarded for leading the party to a resounding victory. He is likely to get a higher position in the party structure at the state-level.
 
 Gogawale just said, “I don’t want any reward from the party. I have done my duty and will continue to serve the party.”
 
