NEW DELHI: A 15-year-old boy was killed and his   critically injured after coming under the wheels of a cement mixer truck while they were cycling near Model Town on Sunday evening. After the accident, the truck driver jumped off his vehicle and fled.

 The incident was reported at   near Model Town. Manoj was pedalling his   while   sat pillion. The truck took a sharp turn near the JJ colony and, while trying to avoid hitting another vehicle, hit the cycle from behind and ran over the teens. Manoj and Mukesh were dragged a few metres before the truck driver could stop his vehicle.
 
 A mob soon gathered at the spot and damaged the truck. The police soon arrived and dragged the two teenagers from underneath the truck. While Manoj was found dead, Mukesh was taken to a local hospital. He was referred to JPN hospital where his condition is said to be extremely critical.
 
 Manoj and Mukesh were neighbours and studied at the same government school. Manoj had bought the cycle from a friend a few days ago. Manoj’s body will be handed over to his family after autopsy on Monday.
 
 “A case under IPC Section 304A has been registered against the truck driver. A manhunt has been launched to arrest him,” said a senior police officer.
 
 The truck is registered in Haryana was being used at a local construction site. Police are scanning CCTV footage from the area to identify the driver. They have also contacted the truck owner and asked for the driver’s details. Police have also recorded eyewitness accounts to get a description of the driver.
 
 According to traffic police estimates, almost 50% of road deaths involve cyclists and pedestrians. Police officers said that lack of cycling tracks or facilities across the city leads to such casualties.
 
 This year, 433 people have died in road accidents till April end. Police said the rate of fatal accidents is lower than last year. Till April 30 last year 528 fatal accidents had been recorded. In 2016, the total number of road accidents was 1,548.
 
 
