We don’t know if these star kids will join showbiz. But if they do, 20 years from now, filmmakers will have a variety to pick from, all from great stock. After years of being the big daddy of  , filmmaker   became a father two months ago. He took his bundles of joy, Roohi and Yash, home last week. With that addition to the extended family of Bollywood, we took ‘stock’ of just how many tots there are today, who might take over the business by a storm tomorrow! 

 
 
 The two-month-old babies are the youngest star kids on the scene. Thanks to their father, we’re sure they’ll make for the most stylishly dressed and well-spoken duo. Whether they become actors, producers, or both, or either, time will tell. But whatever they do, we know they’ll do it in style, like their daddy.
 
 
 
 This looker of a baby, we’re sure will be a rage with the girls. His first few photographs have already broken the Internet. You can only imagine what he’d become when he’s a 20-something lad, with that blonde mane and light eyes. 
 
 
 
 Tusshar’s li’l boy is a charmer already. He achieves the impossible. He keeps his aunt   on her toes, and awake all night. Now, we know that the queen of television doesn’t easily bow before anyone. But at home, Lakkshya writes a different story. Given his daddy’s charm, we can safely assume he’ll be a Kapoor with terrific acting chops and a business bend of the mind.
 
 
 
 These Deshmukh boys could well be the dark horses in the race. They have their mother Genelia’s good looks, father Riteish’s charm and a great political and film lineage to live up to. 
 
 
 
 Whoever has seen this child in action, knows just how much he borrows from his dad. For his age, he finds attention everywhere, and has a dedicated staff to carry a few changes and his toys wherever he goes. He loves waving to a cheering crowd. Clearly, he’s a star in the making. 
 
 
 
 Like daddy, like son. Azad has Kiran Rao and Aamir Khan’s intellect and boy-next-door looks, which make him one of the most sought after li’l boys in showbiz, something his daddy is also known for.
 
 
 
 Given Akshay Kumar and Twinkle Khanna’s genes at work, this kid could either knock the doors of show business or pick up a pen and whip up a storm with her writing. Right now, all we’d say is that she’ll be a pro with martial arts, thanks to daddy. And a well-read kid, thanks to mamma. 
 
 
 
 He’s bhai Salman Khan’s nephew. You never mess with the Khans, do you? This tot is the closest anyone gets to Salman’s heart and we know, jahan bhai ka dil hai, wahan bhai ki will hai…We don’t mean the will that’s penned on paper. Just saying he’ll be the next charmer from the Khandaan on the scene.
 
 
 
 A beautiful blend of her parents, even the name of this Kapoor girl is derived from their initials. We just hope her father will be happy to let her become an actress if she desires to be one. With his genes, we know she’ll be a firecracker on screen. 
 
 
 
