AHMEDABAD: Even as the 14-year-old learning   — who was raped and repeatedly   — was hospitalized at VS Hospital, city crime branch have traced her father to  .

 Crime branch officials questioned the girl’s father in Ahmedabad. Shockingly, police learned that while the girl was missing for three months, her parents did not file a missing person’s complaint.
 
 “We are questioning the father to find out why he did not lodge a missing person’s complaint after his daughter disappeared three months ago,” said a women’s cell official. 
 
 Meanwhile, VS Hospital authorities said the girl’s condition is stable. “She has a perineal tear due to the rape but is slowly improving. We have kept her under observation and are hopeful that the injury will heal by itself. If necessary, we will take a decision about operating on her soon,” said Dr S T Malhan, medical superintendent of VS Hospital. 
 
 Police say primary investigation revealed that eyewitnesses reported the girl being dumped on the roadside at Civil Hospital from a four wheeler. She was then picked up by the NGO Childline and admitted to Civil Hospital for treatment, said a police official.
 
 Civil Hospital authorities told police that the minor first ran away, only to be later seen on December 30, 2016 near the hospital by a woman called Mahnoor Saiyed who was moved by the sight of her in tattered clothes. 
 
 “From buying her clothes to running from pillar to post to get her shelter at Vikas Gruh and Manthan, Saiyed stood by the girl every time,” said a police source.
 
 Assistant commissioner of police (crime branch) Rajdeepsinh Zala said Saiyed, who is handicapped, makes it a point to visit the girl twice a day even today at VS Hospital.
 
 Crime branch sources said that from whatever little they could gather, they learned that girl habitually bit people. “We got vital clues which could lead us to the perpetrators of the heinous crime,” a crime branch official added.
 
 “It is obvious she was not given a medical check-up according to the norms of the Juvenile Justice Act, for all the time she was at Civil Hospital, Vikas Gruh or VS Hospital when she taken there earlier. We will mention these acts of omission by the responsible agencies in the report to be submitted to the social welfare department,” a crime branch official said.
 
