LUCKNOW: As one moves 27 km from Shravasti district headquarters in Bhinga towards  , the road ends up in a dense jungle and all the signs of modern times are left behind – first goes off the phone’s data and then network connectivity is snapped completely. Moving forward just as when one starts getting enveloped by a feeling of being ‘castaway’, one finds oneself in the middle of a row of neatly kept huts and well-maintained network of roads. Welcome to Bhachkahi, a village with 100% population of   tribes.

 Far away from town limits, out of network of any telecom operator and with no cable connection, Bhachkahi, is not at all untouched by the zeal to take part in the democratic process. Its 1800 voters recorded 86% polling in 2014 Lok Sabha  . It went up to 91% in the panchayat polls held in 2015. “We have little interaction with the outside world, but people here are very much aware about their duties,” says Khusi Ram, the head of Bhachkahi panchayat sabha.
 
 With such a high percentage of voting, what does the village – 20 km away from a CHC and 3 km from the closes bus stop – expect from the government of the day? “Their expectation are very simple – support for earning their livelihood and education for their children,” says Khusi Ram, whose own son is the first from the village to clear the UPCPMT. He is now in the final year at Kanpur Medical College.
 
 “Right now, the first demand of the villagers is a mobile tower,” quips another villager  , who has worked with para-military forces and his now back in the village. Shravasti has two more villages with a majority of tribal population -- Katkuian and Motipur Kalan, but Bhachkahi is cent per cent Tharu village.
 
 “Villagers work as labourers and are self-employed -- engaged in activities like rope-making and knitting baskets. Those from Bhachkahi who have got a government job can be counted on your fingers. So, employment is a big issue, though the younger lot is very serious about its studies,” Gaya Deen says.
 
 The village has a primary school and after graduating from here, most children go to a   at Katkuian, a boarding school being run only for tribal students by UP’s social work department, 12 km away. The school has been spruced up in the past two years and this year all students appearing for class XII UP Board exams scored first class. “These kids are very talented. Apart from studies, they can really do great in games like archery and gymnastics. Given proper training, who knows we may get an Olympian from among these kids,” says Rakesh Raman, district social welfare officer.
 
 
