CHENNAI: Cashing in on the raging power tussle within the  , the   on Tuesday moved the   seeking to restrain CM Edappadi K Palaniswami from taking any major policy decision till he proves majority on the floor of the assembly.
DMK working president and opposition leader M K   filed the petition seeking a direction to the   governor to immediately ask the AIADMK government to prove its majority through a floor test.The floor test should be conducted under the supervision of an independent observer appointed by the high court, said Stalin in his writ petition.
 
 Noting that delay in directing an immediate floor test will encourage horse trading and give rise to unsavory political manipulations in the state, Stalin said: “The governor, by abdicating his constitutional duties, is clearly working in tandem with the political party in power, and deliberately delaying the trust vote. The government is employing various tactics (moving for disqualification of 19 MLAs from the T T V Dhinakaran group) to ensure that if any trust vote is called for, majority is proved by removing MLAs opposing such a trust vote.“ Stalin attempted to underline that the gover nor ignored the situation when it required immediate action. He said that the governor was deliberately delaying the trust vote and abdicating his constitutional duties was “evident from the fact that in the interregnum, the minority government is employing various tactics“ to scuttle its possible removal through a trust vote.
 
 “Such facts demonstrate how a deliberate attempt to delay the floor test to help the minority government, to allow it to remain in power, is being made,“ Stalin said.
 
 Claiming that the recent notices issued by the privilege committee against 21 DMK legislators was also a tactics to avoid floor test, he said, “When the issue of a floor test and loss of majority was raised by opposition parties including the DMK, the minority government got a breach of privilege notice issued to 21 DMK MLAs on a completely frivolous grounds.“
 
 On Sunday, a delegation of opposition leaders led by Stalin, called on governor C Vidyasagar Rao to seek a quick floor test. Representations submitted to governor stated that if he failed to act even after a week, the opposition would be forced to approach courts for justice.At least 21 AIADMK MLAs and 98 MLAs of the DMK and its allies have expressed unequivocal lack of confidence in the present government.It is clear that the chief minister has lost confidence of the majority MLAs, Stalin said.
 
 Of the 234 members of the assembly , the DMK working president said, the government enjoyed the support of only 113 MLAs excluding the speaker, whereas MLAs with no confidence in the incumbent ministry are 119 in number [89 DMK; eight Congress; one IUML and 21 AIADMK (Amma)].
 
 Denying the assertion that calling for a floor test is the discretion of the governor, the petition said when the government had lost the confidence of a majority of the members of the House, it was not the discretion, but the duty of the governor to call for a floor test.
 
