Ghaziabad: Three men were thrashed, and two of them shot in their legs, on Sunday night in what police termed a road rage attack at Khoda colony on the Delhi-Ghaziabad border. But by Monday morning, the attack had attained a communal colour as the victims insisted they had been targeted because they had opposed plans to build a mosque in the area and shops were shut in protest.

 Their claims were supported by Umanandan Kaushik, city president of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), forcing an interjection from the police, which lashed out at attempts to turn a clear case of road rage into a communal attack.
 
 Ghaziabad SSP Deepak Kumar told TOI, “This is a simple matter of road rage but people are trying to give this incident a communal colour since Monday morning. Just because the two groups involved in the scuffle belong to different communities, every issue is assumed to be communal in nature, irrespective of the facts.”
 
 Seven people have been named in the FIR, four of whom — Reyaz Khan, Rahul Malik, Nadim and Shaheed Mohammad —have been arrested. The four attacked men — Vikas Mishra (28), his brother Abhishek Mishra (24), Rakesh Garg (36) and Rahul Rajouriya (26) — are all VHP members, police said. “Garg was heading back home in the Anil Vihar area of Khoda on his scooter when the seven men, who were in a Safari (UP14 BA 6100), wanted to overtake,” said Pradeep Tripathi, SHO of Indirapuram. “Since Khoda’s lanes are narrow, only so much space could be made available. This escalated into an argument, which became a fight,” he added.
 
 The victims were treated at Kailash hospital on Sunday night. “Brothers Vikas and Abhishek had received injuries in their legs. The bullets were removed. They had deep wounds but are out of danger,” said hospital spokesperson VB Joshi. Rajouriya, a property dealer, was also injured but the bullet did not pierce his skin. 
 
 “Garg was attacked by masked goons because he objected to the construction of an   in the Deepak Vihar area of Khoda,” Kaushik said. “After confirming his name, the goons started beating him up him with hockey sticks and cricket bats. When people from nearby homes, including the other victims, intervened, they too were thrashed and ultimately shot at. Police are trying to divert attention from the real incident by calling it a road rage,” he added.
 
 The SSP said police were aware about objections to the construction of the mosque. “This is true that a week ago, Garg had called the Indirapuram circle officer (Anil Yadav) to inform him about the illegal construction of a mosque and we put a stop to it. At that time, no one had any problem,” he said.
 
 On Monday morning, shopkeepers in Khoda market downed shutters in protest and staged a demonstration condemned the police’s double standards. “These police officials are a part of this entire incident and they were present nearby when the victims were shot,” said Shresh Narayan Mishra, a Khoda resident.
 
 SSP Kumar, on the other hand, said the protesters had been misinformed. “When I told them the accused had been sent to judicial custody, people reopened their shops. The members of VHP also tried insinuating communal feelings through WhatsApp and these elements will be taken to task. There is no tension in the colony and everything is normal,” he said.
 
 Naim Khan, a member of the local mosque trust, said a mosque already exists and an adjacent plot had been purchased to build a basement. “We were earlier using it as a madrasa but for almost two years, this has been used as a mosque. We have purchased this (adjacent) plot from a man called Nasim Khan almost six months ago and it is our legal property. We also possess the legal papers for this transaction and can show these,” he said, adding none of the members of the committee knew any of the men booked for Sunday night’s violence. 
 
 
