MUMBAI: A special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act court recently acquitted a 20-year-old student on charges of   a 14-year-old girl in his vicinity after both the victim and her father did not support the prosecution's case in court saying it was a "misunderstanding". The court pointed out the families reached a "compromise" and "settled the matter out of court" after the man assured them he would behave himself. With no other witnesses examined by the prosecution, the court said the accused was acquitted in the absence of any incriminating evidence.

 The prosecution said the accused tried to harass the minor by teasing her repeatedly . It submitted that on November 30, 2015, at around 3.30 pm, the minor was waiting for her school bus at the school gate, when the accused came and caught her hand. The prosecution said the child felt ashamed and narrated the incident to her father. The father then filed the police complaint. The accused was arrested and later granted bail. A chargesheet was submitted against him.
 
 Last week the families of the minor and accused submitted an undertaking that "he will not create any anti-social disturbance to the family of the victim". The prosecution then examined the minor and her father. Both accepted the case was registered but denied the contents. They claimed a complaint was lodged due to a misunderstanding. The prosecution submitted that due to the compromise outside the court, no other witnesses needed to examined.
 
 Legal experts said such instances are becoming common in less severe offences under   as parents succumb to pressure. Although the courts don't consider the compromise, the accused walks free as the minor doesn't back the prosecution's case in court as a result of such a compromise.
 
 Rohini Salian, who has worked as both a defence lawyer and special public prosecutor, said this has prevailed even in rape cases. "In many instances family members reach this decision after coming under social pressure. In such instances, as a prosecutor, I have always insisted on speaking to the victim directly to understand her stand," she added. Advocate Persis Sidhva, who works closely with survivors of sexual abuse, said even when minors don't support the prosecution's case owing to parental pressure, the court can rely on statement recorded before the magistrate under section 164 of the Criminal Procedure Code along with other evidence.
 
