AJMER: Friday remained a day of unrest in Ajmer as students jammed the main road of   on one side and   witnessed a heavy protest staged by the students outside the institute on the other. Police were deployed who used light pressure to bring the situation under control. 

 According to sources, students in MDS University staged protest on the demand of returning the fee of internship. They first jammed the main gate of the university and later they jammed the road too. Students were instigated when police detained some student leader and used light pressure to clear the jam.
 
 According students,   (B Ed), which was a two-year course earlier, has now been converted to one year by the state government. 
 
 “Government has also increased the fee from Rs 25,000 to Rs 54,000. In the second year, students have to go for a five months internship paying the fee, but there are hardly any classes conducted in colleges,” said a student.
 
 Students accused that colleges charged about Rs 26,000 on the name of internship and therefore, students demanded to return such fees. Agitating students also tried to close down the main gate of the university and the protest last for about two hours.
 
 Meanwhile, sources said that the agitation was going peacefully but one of the staff remarked that there are dozens of girls who are not studying in the university but coming to the campus which made the students furious.
 
 Officials of the university said that university has no connection with the internship fees and it is the college who collect such fees. If students are facing such issue from any college then they should complain to university who will take action into that matter.
 
 On other hand, students of Government Engineering College boycotted their classes and shouted slogans against the institute accusing the college of charging Rs 1,000 per day basis for delay in registration. Students also staged protest outside the gate.
 
 Students accused that they have to get themselves registered in every semester and this time, college formed a rule that if they delay in registration then they have pay Rs 1,000 on daily basis for delay in paying fees. Students alleged that college administration has threatened them to fail students in practical examination. The situation went beyond control when some members from student’s union also came in support and had conflict with college staff.
 
 Police was deployed to control the situation. A delegation of student went to talk with college officials who withdrew the order of collecting fine for delay in registration. Principal   said that last date for registration in different semester was December 9 but students had not turned up which hinder the attendance process in classrooms. The rule was made for the students to hurry up in registering themselves.
 
