BENGALURU:  , including   of outspoken inmates, in the Central Prison ( ) and jails elsewhere in the state were brought to the prison department's notice a year ago.This is much before then DIG (prisons) D Roopa raised the issue last week.
An inmate of the Central Prison had in April 2016 written to the chief justice of the high court, highlighting the alleged irregularities in his jail and also eight other central prisons. The Karnataka State Legal Services Authority had on June 24, 2016, wrote to then director general of police (prisons), asking him to look into the issue and submit a report.
 
 TOI is in possession of the convict's letter as well as the missive from the   (prisons), and is withholding the prisoner's identity for security reasons.
 
 “Please take my complaint seriously. Because, all our complaints about illegalities, injustice, maladministration and corruption given to visiting judges, human rights officials and other officers only result in the complainant being transferred to distant jails in violation of rules. This has created a situation in jails where no prisoner can reveal problems to anyone. If prisoners write to the human rights commission, there will be no way they can follow it up as officials will not pass on to the inmates any communication in this regard.Educated convicts are treated cruelly by the jail staff,“ the convict wrote in Kannada.
 
 The inmate requested the court to accept the letter as a complaint under Articles 30 and 226 and pass a judgment that will uphold their freedom of expression and speech. “I fear that I may be transferred for disclosing these facts. If it happens, I pray with the court that there should be an inquiry ,“ the letter stated.
 
 Following the legal services authority's directive to him, then DGP (prisons) H N Satyanarayana Rao had directed Krishna Kumar, who was chief superintendent of the Central Prison, to investigate and submit a report.
 
 However, Krishna Kumar, according to sources in the prison, failed to submit a report. Repeated phone calls to get Krishna Kumar's response on the issue were not answered.
 
 A spokesperson from Karnataka Legal Services Authority said they need to cross-check the old files to see whether Rao had submitted any report or not.
 
 
 
 
 Shooting the messenger has always been an easy way out for corrupt authorities to sweep bitter facts under the carpet. The recent developments at the Central Prison are an indication that all's not well in jails across the state. The charges of graft, favouritism and human right violations are serious, and needed to be addressed forthwith. The fact that the irregularities were already known to many officials much before the recent controversy is shocking. Such inaction has resulted in damage which could have been averted. There seems to be no inquiry by prison officials after a convict raised the issue. The legal services authority too failed to ensure that corrective measures were taken. A clean-up action is much needed. Ensure that whistleblowers are protected, else things could go back to square one.
 
