NEW DELHI: A major fire broke out inside a hookah   on the sixth floor of Rohini’s   on Tuesday afternoon, in which one of its workers was charred to death. A fire official also suffered burn injuries during rescue operations.

 According to police, the fire was triggered by two simultaneous cylinder blasts in the open kitchen, when over a dozen youngsters were present at the   parlour, Mirzaa. All of the occupants were safely rescued by the fire officials.
 
 The building houses two offices of chartered accountants and eateries. All those present inside were asked to leave following the fire, to prevent more casualties.
 
 Police said that they received a call at 2.30 pm, after which 10 fire tenders were rushed to the spot and the fire was doused within an hour.
 
 “A hookah parlour was opened on the sixth floor of the building about an year ago. Today being a working day, there were fewer people present there, which prevented a bigger damage,” said a fire official.
 
 Police said that the lone victim, Kamal Bagasse (24), was present inside the kitchen when the cylinders blasted, leading to his death. 
 
 “At around 2.20 pm, we noticed smoke emerging from the Amba tower complex. We called PCR and soon fire brigade arrived and brought the situation under control,” said Tarun, whose office is in the adjoining building.
 
 Police said that the fire was spreading fast, but they, along with fire officials, were able to evacuate the building.
 
 Fire official Ombir Singh, meanwhile, burnt his hand while pulling out people trapped inside the building. He started bleeding profusely and was immediately given first-aid.
 
 “We have registered a complaint and have started investigations in the matter. Family members of the deceased have been informed,” said MN Tiwari, deputy commissioner of police ( ).
 
 According to fire officials, 10 fire-tenders, six PCRs, disaster management’s Quick Reaction team and a CATS ambulance were rushed to the spot. They said that DCP MN Tiwari also reached there, along with other officers.
 
 
