BENGALURU: The   has sought the assistance of its counterpart in Goa to emulate the western state’s child protection act. Authorities wrote to the Goa High Court last month, seeking a model of the Goa  , which was implemented in 2003 to protect, promote and preserve kids’ best interests and create a children-friendly society.

 Under the Act, Karnataka will establish   to exclusively deal with child abuse cases, on the lines of Goa. Victim Assistant Units (VAU) will also be set up based on the model of Stop Child Abuse Now (SCAN), a Goa-based NGO which was nominated by the Goa government to provide VAU service under the act.
 
 At a nationwide consultation on the   held at the National Law School of India University (NLSIU) campus on Saturday, Emidio Pinho, advocate and co-founder of SCAN and child protection coordinator, spoke about the inadequacy of the act. He said a robust child protection act could help plug the loopholes. The event was inaugurated by MP Rajeev Chandrasekhar.
 
 “Most cases of child sexual abuse end up in acquittal due to multiple factors — the inclination of the criminal justice system towards the accused, vulnerability of minor victims, lack of social and judicial support and insensitivity among all stakeholders right from doctors and police to public prosecutors and judges. The Pocso Act fails to address these inadequacies,” he pointed out.
 
 “Police continue to delay framing of chargesheets, doctors don’t cooperate enough and it is mostly male doctors who conduct medical examination on the victim. Even the special court barely serves the purpose. The implementation of the Goa Child Protection Act is much better,” he added.
 
 The support monitoring system under the Goa act includes setting up of Victim Assistance Units, socio-legal cell at Juvenile Justice Boards (JJB), going-to-court programme, special children’s court, and juvenile/child welfare police unit in each police station.
 
 Explaining how VAU operates, Emidio said: “In all cases of physical, verbal and sexual abuse of children which are reported, a VAU number is generated after our member’s visit to the police station, recording of the victim’s statement, conducting of the medical examination, visit to the crime scene and complete documentation and submission to our internal follow-up team.”
 
