PUNE: An official from the   and  , better known as Balbharati, has been suspended over his alleged involvement in conducting a party at which alcohol was consumed on the premises of the institution on the evening of January 24.

 Ironically, the incident took place just two days before Balbharati’s 50th Foundation Day celebration on January 27.
 
 Liquor bottles were found in the premises on January 24. According to Balbharati director  , as many as 10 other officials are also suspected to be involved in the party however, as of now evidence regarding only one official has come to the fore. Magar added that further inquiry into the matter is underway and soon   cameras would be installed inside the premises.
 
 January 23 onwards, various conferences and talks had been arranged for the Foundation Day. The party, where alcohol was consumed and which allegedly involved at least 10 officials from the institution, was held on January 24, according to Magar.
 
 While Magar was away from the city for a felicitation programme for the Saral software, the officials organised the party. When Magar joined office on January 25, the cleanliness staff reported the empty liquor bottles found near the guesthouse.
 
 Magar said, “An official was found drunk and lying outside a room at the guesthouse. The official was identified and an inquiry has been ordered against others involved in the incident. We have issued a suspension order against this official.”
 
 The incident came to light when the officials asked the cleanliness staff to clear nearly 10 to 15 liquor bottles. Offended by the demand, the cleaning staff decided to report the matter to the director.
 
 Taking cue from the incident, Balbharati has now decided to install CCTV cameras at strategic locations in order to monitor activities inside the premises. Magar also said that there were complaints about frequent liquor parties inside the guesthouse and another inquiry would be conducted on such parties held in the past.
 
 Balbharati publishes nearly 13 crore textbooks every year for students studying in state board schools. It also produces and supplies textbooks for Sarva Shiksa Abhiyan.
 
