BENGALURU: Commuters remained largely unaffected by the day-long protest conducted in front of the transport commissioner's office at Shanthinagar by   associated with Ola, Uber and other aggregators on Wednesday.The protest was organised by unions of taxi drivers against some of the policies of the cab aggregator companies such as dynamic pricing and car leasing among others.

 Nearly 350 drivers from various taxi and auto drivers' unions turned up in front of the transport commissioner's office. However, the unions had expected a significantly larger number of drivers to participate in the protest, and there were fears of more than 35,000 cabs staying off Bengaluru's streets. The drivers said that the app-based aggregators violated many provisions in the state's motor vehicle rules.“Cab and auto drivers are paid very little,“ the protesters said.
 
 The protesters wrote a letter to the transport commissioner MK Aiyappa, listing all their demands. However, Aiyappa was not in town. “I will look into the issue once I am back,“ he said. While commuters faced a few tense moments trying to book cabs in the morning, the situation eased by afternoon. With autos plying as usual on the roads, citizens were not too inconvenienced.
 
 Sudarshana Roy , an IT employee residing in Koramangala, said that he couldn't find cabs on his app at 9am. “But I managed to book an auto through Ola, after two drivers asked me to cancel rides. I managed to reach work on time, and faced no trouble booking cabs later in the day,“ he added.
 
 However, Uber customers faced no such problems in the mor ning. Bichitra (name changed), a student, said she booked an Uber cab at 8am. “I was slightly worried if I would get a cab this morning. But I had little trouble booking a cab, and reached college in time for my first class. None of my friends faced any trouble either,“ she added.
 
 Shreya (name changed), a media professional, too said she managed to book an Uber cab at 10.30am. “There were enough cabs and rickshaws plying on the road, and we were not too inconvenienced,“ she said.
 
 Varun Sehgal, a marketing manager with  , was worried about missing his flight on Wednesday after he heard about the protest. “However, when I saw the number of cabs on the street, I was relieved. I knew I would be able to get a taxi to  ,“ he added. 
 
