NEW DELHI: The government is not considering enacting a separate law to tackle   incidents or amending the Indian Penal Code (IPC) or Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) for this purpose, MoS for home affairs   told   on Wednesday.

 Replying to a question from Samajwadi Party leader Naresh Agrawal during question hour, Ahir said whether a   was done by a single person or by many, existing laws could deal with the crime. Lynching, though, is a crime usually associated with a group of people or a mob.
 
 The minister’s response did not satisfy the opposition and SP members entered the well to raise slogans and protest against alleged inaction on part of the Centre against such incidents. Much of Rajya Sabha’s proceedings on Wednesday was taken up by charges and counter-charges over cow vigilantism.
 
 “I don't think there is a need to bring changes in the law,” Ahir said in response to a supplementary question from Congress member Digvijaya Singh on whether the government intended to bring changes in the IPC or CrPC to curb such violence. The minister objected to the reference to BJP members in cases of lynching even as the opposition attacked the ruling party.
 
 Ahir said state governments could take action against persons involved in such incidents under existing laws. He added that the Centre had issued advisories to states asking them for immediate registration of FIRs and arrest of the accused in such crimes.
 
 “Paying heed to our advisory, states are taking action,” the minister said. He also said PM Modi had spoken against such killings in the name of cow protection and this would not be tolerated.
 
 Earlier, beginning the debate, leader of opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad said the BJP had created an atmosphere of fear among Muslims and Dalits around the country in the name of cow protection. “We believe all this is being done with understanding… this is for political harvesting of votes. When our own home is weak, how will we deal with external threats?’ he asked.
 
 Sitaram Yechury of CPM demanded an immediate ban on vigilante groups by a government order to all states, holding that “gau rakshaks” had been emboldened by the “cult of violence” being promoted by the Sangh Parivar.
 
 “Nationalism is being equated with Hinduvta nationalism ... This is not the Bharat Mata I know,” he said.
 
 Derek O’Brien of Trinamool attacked the government for indulging in “cow terrorism, political terrorism, tax terrorism, digital terrorism” in the name of the mandate it had got. “We will not cow down to your political terrorism,” he said.
 
 Ahir later said NCRB had started keeping numbers of cases related to communal tensions. “For the first time, NCRB has started recording lynching incidents since 2014.
 
 In 2014, more such cases happened in states like Kerala, Karnataka, Rajasthan, Maharashtra and UP, while in 2015, there were more incidents in states of UP, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu,” he said. Ahir said in 2016, such incidents took place in UP, West Bengal, Kerala, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. “Except a state or two which are BJP-ruled, other states are non-BJP ruled... It is not correct that BJP is involved in this,” he said.
 
 
