KOLKATA: A retired merchant navy officer allegedly committed suicide by jumping off his seventh floor flat on Friday night. The incident was reported from the posh Sangam Complex on Wood Street off Park Street around 10.30pm.

 Police said 82-year-old Chander   was suffering from severe trauma after his wife passed away a week ago. A suicide note recovered from the victim stated that he could not “bear the agony of being separated from his wife.”
 
 Reportedly, other family members were in the house when the incident took place. Witnesses said the victim jumped from the rear-end of the building facing the parking lot. “All of us on the ground floor rushed to the parking lot when we heard a loud thud. Arrangements were made to take Karla to the hospital and the cops were informed. But I knew it was already late to save him,” said a security guard posted at the main gate.
 
 Karla’s family members, who were trying to come in terms with the loss of one life, were shocked. “We are not in a position to speak. We are yet to be handed over his body by the hospital. His son, who is in the merchant navy, is busy running to and fro the Shakespeare police station and the morgue in this immense moment of grief,” said an immediate family member when TOI visited the house.
 
 A relative said that Kalra shared a special bond with his wife. “We still remember their wedding anniversary celebrations. They trusted each other blindly. Karla talked less after his wife died. He was clearly depressed. But I’m not sure if anyone noticed this before the death of his wife,” said the relative. “He shared a very special bond with his wife. That is why, even at this stage of life, he felt very lonely after her demise,” the relative added.
 
 Other residents of the high-rise who know the Karla family also appeared shocked. “Kalra sir was a gentleman. He was always cordial with everyone around. How could such a charming personality end his life in such a manner,” said a neighbour, who lives on the sixth floor.
 
