CHANDIGARH: In the process of regularizing 1,056   covered under state policy, the Haryana government is deliberating upon reducing the development charges to be paid for regularization enabling colonies inhabited by lower strata of society to reap benefits.

 Regularization of unauthorized colonies has been a political issue in the state since the previous   Congress government. As per urban local bodies department records, in-principle approval to 368 such colonies has been given in the first phase. Out of the total 1,056 such colonies, the maximum is in   followed by   and Yamunanagar. Each of these three districts has more than 100 unauthorised colonies.
 
 The final implementation is taking time since chief minister   has wants to reduce development and regularization charges as per the plot size since developers were could affiord these charges but the economically weaker lot couldn’t. 
 
 Urban local bodies minister   said, “I cannot exactly say how much time regularization would take but it is the government’s priority so that basic amenities are provided to people. Only development charges are to be finalized.”
 
 In August 2015, the state government had conducted a survey of unauthorized colonies located within the municipal limits where construction had taken place on more than 50 % of the plots prior to March 31, 2015.
 
 As per another condition laid down these colonies should not violate provisions of Land Acquisition Act, Forest Conservation Act, Environment Protection Act, Work of Defence Act and Indian Electricity Act. A resolution should have been passed by the respective municipality and recommended by divisional commissioner or deputy commissioner for regularization. Unauthorized colonies should not have come up on lands of the central or the state government. And, the municipality needs to certify if fire tender is accessible to all houses.
 
 As per the plan, resident welfare associations (RWA) of unauthorized colonies would be constituted to collect development charges to be deposited in escrow account. The amount would then be transferred to the concerned municipal bodies for providing basic amenities in such colonies.
 
 The state government had on April 21, 2016, notified the Haryana Management of Civic Amenities and Infrastructure Deficient Municipal Areas (Special Provisions) Act, 2016, to make special provisions to provide essential services in civic amenities and infrastructure deficient municipal areas, including unauthorized colonies.
 
 
