PATNA: The Patna Electric Supply Undertaking (PESU) is to launch a drive from March 16 to disconnect power supply to those houses and establishments, which have not paid their energy bills even for the current month.

 PESU GM Dilip Kumar Singh told TOI that additional manpower has been roped in for the drive and teams would knock doors to check for any pending energy bill and snap power supply in case the consumer failed to pay the dues.
 
 “It has been commonly seen that only around 73% of the consumers pay their bills on time. The remaining 27% account for heavy dues, which leads to financial pressure on PESU and the energy department. Hence, we want people to develop a habit of paying their bills on time,” said Singh.
 
 Singh said though focus would be initially on big defaulters, but domestic consumers would also be asked to pay their bills on time. “People should pay bills every month. Action would be taken even for small dues,” said Singh.
 
 The disconnection drive also coincides with the PESU preparations to ensure smooth power supply in the summer season. Singh said the total installed capacity of all 51 substations in Patna is 1,222MW, whereas the expected demand during this summer is around 530MW.
 
 Patna has nine power grids of different capacities — Khagaul, Digha, Jakkanpur, Mithapur, Karbigahiya, GAI Ghat, Katra, Gaurichuk and Fatuha.
 
 “Every substations in and around Patna are connected with two grids. This ensures uninterrupted power supply even if one of the grids breaks down. Equal emphasis has been given for augmentation of distribution network. Capacity of around 2,000 transformers in the city have been augmented over the last two years,” said Singh.
 
 Meanwhile, the power tariff is also likely to be revised from April. The two power distribution companies (discoms) of the energy department had filed the tariff petition for the next fiscal (2017-18) with Bihar Electricity Regulatory Commission (BERC) on December 26 last year. The BERC, later, held public hearings on the proposed tariff at different places in the state in February.
 
 Urban and rural power consumers would have to shell out Rs1.27-2 per unit, translating into a hike of 20- 21% on the overall bill in the next fiscal (2017-18), if the power distribution companies have their say in the final decision on tariff revision. The new tariff regime is expected to be implemented from April 1.
 
 
