NEW DELHI:   and Left demanded an inquiry into the handling of the death of veteran IUML MP E   on Friday, alleging that the government had held back the announcement of his death to ensure that the Budget could be presented unhindered the next day.

 Talking to reporters, leader of opposition in   Ghulam Nabi Azad said, “We definitely want a discussion... Our information is that his death happened much earlier (before it was declared). But the government wanted to keep the body there until the Budget was presented and nobody was allowed in.”
 
 Ahamed collapsed in Parliament on Tuesday, but was declared dead around 2.30am on Wednesday, only hours before the Budget was to be presented.
 
 The death was announced following a confrontation between his family and the hospital authorities.
 
 The issue led to disruption in   on Friday when Congress deputy whip K C Venugopal gave an adjournment notice in the House. The opposition members trooped into the well, raising slogans, leading to adjournment. In Rajya Sabha, CPM leader Sitaram Yechury demanded a thorough probe. “I have information. Some doctors say he was declared dead when he was taken to hospital. Some say he died in the ICU. Then later, he was shifted to the trauma centre saying there were better facilities.
 
 And there has been interference, that is what I hear from the highest authorities in the country, from the PMO, and this is something that cannot be accepted.” Leader of Congress in Lok Sabha   said, “The body was kept there in an inhuman way. His daughter and son-inlaw were not let in for 6-7 hours... This all shows how the government shrouded such a big incident to ensure the Budget was presented.” Venugopal later told reporters, “The government must constitute a Lok Sabha panel to investigate and clear all doubts regarding the demise of the MP. I would also request the PM to make a statement on this.” In what sounded like an insinuation, he said visitors were disallowed from seeing Ahamed after the visit of minister of state in PMO Jitender Singh. The government urged Congress to “not politicise” Ahamed’s death and sought cooperation of all parties for smooth conduct of Parliament. Union parliamentary affairs minister Ananth Kumar said RML Hospital’s superintendent had already given a detailed statement on the leader’s sudden demise.
 
