PATNA: Indirapuram   donated books to the underprivileged children of Gyanshala (an educational institute) at a programme on the school premises on Saturday. A workshop on positive parenting for the parents and students was also organized on the occasion. School principal Aarti Jha talked about the importance of education and its contribution towards the growth and development of the society. She also talked about the school initiative named as Indirapuram Evening School for the underprivileged girls.
 
  
 Despite patriarchy deeply entrenched in our social fabric, the world is fast moving towards gender equality, said Professor Dhan Prasad Pandit of the political science and gender studies at Tribhuvan University here on Saturday.
  
  Delivering a talk on ‘Political participation of women in India and Nepal — a comparative status’, organized by Patna University’s Women Studies Centre at Darbhanga House, Pandit said with 29% women representation in parliament, Nepal ranks 17th in the world as per the Inter Parliamentary Union rating. In the first Constituent Assembly of Nepal, there were as many as 197 women members out of the total 601. It became possible only because of reservation for women in Nepal’s polity. Affirmative action, reservation and positive discrimination are the tools through which women in Nepal are boosting up their participation in key legislative and policy-making decisions. At the global level, South Asia leads in according maximum representation to women in parliamentary bodies, he said.
  
  Centre director Padmalata Thakur welcomed the guests. Former Patna College principal   presided over the seminar.
  
  
 A new girls’ common room was inaugurated at Vanijya Mahavidyalaya, a constituent unit of Patna University, on Saturday. College principal B N Pandey said a separate common room was needed after the considerable increase in the number of girl students in the college. He said in the 1970s, there were hardly one or two girls enrolled in the college, but now their number has exceeded 300. This is a very very positive sign for women empowerment in the state, he said.
  
  Many teachers, including A K Singh, S P Singh and Chandan Kumar were present on the occasion. Common room treasurer Pooja Kumari proposed a vote of thanks.
  
  
  
  The two-day national seminar on ‘Sarve Bhavantu Sukhinah: Revisiting Paradigms of Wellness’ was inaugurated at St Xavier’s College and St Xavier’s College of Management and Technology, Patna on Saturday. The programme began with lighting of traditional lamp and prayer song. College principal T Nishaant SJ released a souvenir on the occasion.
  
  
  The students of  , Rohan Kumar Choudhary, Ankita Swati and Subrata Hait got the best paper award at the International Conference on Emerging Trends in Water Resources and Environmental Engineering (ETWREE'17) at MVGR College of Engineering, Vizianagaram in Andhra Pradesh on April 1. The students’ paper was on ‘Vermicomposting of primary clarified tannery sludge employing Eisenia fetida’.
