Vachel Lindsay (1879-1931) was an American wordsmith who took poetry out of the stuffy parlour and injected it with the drama of performance. And Lindsay’s spirit came alive during ‘The Book Hop’, an event that lifted words from the printed page — from travelogue, fiction and poetry — and made them bop and boogie to music.

 When   began reading from his ‘On the Holy Mountain: A Journey in the Shadow of Byzantium’, accompanied by the jamming-to-the-apocalypse score of the ‘Jazz B*stards’, almost 300 people had crammed into the OddBird Theatre. There was no place to stand.
 
 Much, rightly, is made of Dalrymple the   but his eloquence as a   deserves equal respect, for he can bring even the most ho-hum tale to life. Dalrymple chose the Beirut bits from his superb wanderings chronicling the fortunes of the Eastern Orthodox faith in the Levant. Considering that Syria is in the throes of a terrible, terrible conflict (and her neighbouring states not exactly havens of peace), the excerpt had a sobering topicality.
 
 Dalrymple gives Beirut, war ravaged but desperately looking to hold on to its sybaritic past, a personality, one that is fleshed out by the shuffling, end-of-the-world, jacket-off-tie-loose vibe of the B*stards.
 
 That, mind you, was just for starters.
 
 For one, there was the feisty flourish with which Sabika Abbas Naqvi tried to explain what was so turning-on about her ‘kajal’, a brilliant bit of versifying that used the humble eyeliner as a trampoline for a stream-of-consciousness on the male gaze. Spilling over with punchlines and tipsy with cheeky asides, Sabika breathlessly evoked the spirit of all those women who have called out men.
 
 And there was Divya Dureja, reading from a poem she wrote after the Supreme Court decriminalised homosexuality, again (‘These kisses aren’t ammunitions / Whom could they hurt?’). It was an impassioned performance that had a hushed authority about it, one the B*stards complemented with empathy, working up a mood that evoked Joni Mitchell at her best.
 
 Clive James’ tennis-fantasy of ‘Bring me the sweat of Gabriela Sabatini’ lost not a bit of its hormonal punch when Palash Dave read it, fizzing like one of the gorgeous Argentine’s groundstrokes, as bass, drums and piano vied, whimsically, for the upper hand (much like those on opposite sides of the net look to find that rally-ending shot). Meanwhile, Karam Vir Lamba dipped into the preface of Douglas Adams’ ‘The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy’ to the accompaniment of comic-book visuals and a jazz score that was at once quirky and darkly free-form.And Damandeep Singh really killed it with his thundering recital of Lindsay’s ‘Congo: A Brief History of the Negro Race’. Singh’s words, detonating (and falling) like cluster bombs, chucking down like hail, hit the listener hard and with a rare frenzy (‘Boomlay, boomlay, boomlay, boom’!).
 
 Take a bow, Udayan Chakravarty. The ad dude from   behind the ‘Hop’ has stumbled upon a winner.
 
