Environmental organisation in the city have appealed to citizens to celebrate this   in an eco-friendly manner owing to a potential water shortage in the coming summer days.

 Unlike   that is celebrated in the rest of the country, Kolhapur rings in Rangpanchami with double the fervour and fun. Keeping this in mind, the city-based environmental organisations have appealed to citizens to only use natural and dried colours to celebrate and not use water as much as possible.
 
 Sunil Chaugule, president of Nisagmirta, a non-governmental environmental organisation, said, “We have already appealed to citizens to use only dried colours to celebrate Rangpanchami. We organized a workshop on colour making at 16 schools in the city and received a good response from the students. They promised to use only dried colours. As we have also been facing a severe water shortage, we have appealed to everyone to celebrate a dry Rangpanchami to save water. Recently, we also took out a cycle rally to create awareness among the citizens.”
 
 Chaugule said that they aimed at making youths and college students aware about a dry Rangpanchami so that more people would take caution. “We have to think about having a sustainable environment while enjoying the festival,” he said.
 
  foundation has also appealed to everyone to purchase only natural colours and have a dry Ranagpanchami. The organisation has also scheduled a Rangapanchmi programme only for the women in the city. 
 
 A resident   said, “The idea of celebrating Rangpanchami has changed over the last few years due to constant awareness created by the environmental organisations. Earlier, we used to play with chemical colours which had the potential of harm one’s skin. But, the usage of the artificial colours was declined. Now, youngsters prefer to play with natural colours. So, we will also celebrate the festival in an eco-friendly manner and create awareness regarding the same on social media. We should learn to take a taste of the festival without causing any inconvenience to anyone.”
 
 Enough water stock, but Nashik cautious: Giving company to Kolhapur in having a safe and environment friendly Rangpanchami, the   (NMC) has appealed to revellers to use water judiciously on the occasion even though the as the civic body has adequate water in its quota from the Gangapur group of reservoirs and Darna dam.
 
 An NMC official said, “The NMC has enough water to last till the first week of August. But, people should use minimum water. Last year, we had to impose water cuts because of a scarcity. This time, we have total reservations of 4,300 Million Cubic Feet (MCFT) of water, including 3,900 MCFT in Gangapur group of dams and 400 MCFT in Darna dam. The quota is up to July 31. There’s is no panic situation, but people must use water judiciously.” 
 
 In 2016, the drought situation had prompted Nashikites to discontinue their 350-year-old traditional celebration of the festival of colours called Rahaad. They had decided to play a waterless Holi last year and, in the process, saved around 32 lakh litre of water in a day for the city. After a good rain this season, the traditional Rahaads have been opened in Nashik once again and the community celebrations will be conducted in the city.
 
