AMRITSAR: The   here has opposed the proposed move of the   to force doctors to make prescriptions of drugs by   and not by brand names. The Indian Drug Manufacturers Association (IDMA) has written a letter to principal secretary to Prime Minister for being allowed to prescribe both branded and generic products.

 Stating that the medical fraternity wouldn’t like such an enforcement, director (cardiology) of a leading private hospital in Amritsar Dr   said every doctor should prescribe medicines of at least three to four high standard pharmaceutical companies which had their own innovative brands. He said there were many rich patients who didn’t want to compromise on quality of medicines and wanted that doctors to prescribe the best brand to them. 
 
 “Doctors could give innovative brand medicines to this category of patients. To others, they can prescribe generic medicines, which are cost effective. I am of the view that the ultimate benefit will not be passed on to the patient and chemists will be calling the shots following the Centre’s proposed move on generic medicines,” Dr Chopra said
 
 In a letter to PM’s principal secretary Nripendra Mishra, IDMA president Deepnath Roy Chowdhury has requested the government to allow prescription of both generic and branded products so that the doctors could exercise their right to show their preference for a brand and the patient could decide whether to buy the branded or the generic version. He said that shifting the right to choose the product from the doctors to the chemists would have serious implications regarding margins and accountability. “Chemists are likely to push products for which they get higher margin with the result that the determining factor will be profitability and not quality,” mentioned the IDMA chief’s letter.
 
 Dr Avtar Singh, a leading private practitioner of Amritsar, said there was always an apprehension about the efficacy of a non-branded drug. “Branded pharmaceutical houses have strict quality control measures, so their medicines are bit expensive as compard to the generic ones. On the other hand, pharmaceutical companies manufacturing generic medicines don’t have similar standards of quality control measures and so their medicines are cheap,” he said.
 
 The president of Amritsar chapter of IMA Dr Sukhjit Singh said the government was tightening noose around qualified doctors while it appeared to be unconcerned about the qualification of chemists. He said since the chemists would be more interested in pushing the generic medicines, which gave them maximum profits, it would would compromise the quality of treatment. He added that the national body of IMA was scheduled to hold a meeting on June 6 to contemplate the issues faced by medical fraternity.
 Representative image.
 
 
