 star   is a vocal critic of President Donald Trump but in a new interview the actor has spoken about Hillary   and how she was "not good at communicating things". 

  
  
 Clooney, who had organised a fundraiser for Clinton during the 2016 elections, said while she was "incredibly qualified for the job", her speeches did not click the way they should have with the voters. "Hillary, for years and years and years, has been the presumptive nominee, and quite honestly, she was incredibly qualified for the job," Clooney said. 
 
 "But being qualified for the job does not necessarily mean you're the right person to be president. Here's what I mean. She was more qualified than even her husband was when he was elected president, but she's not as good at communicating things. That's simply true. When she got up and gave a speech, it didn't soar."
 
 "Now, that doesn't mean that she wouldn't have done a great job as president, and I supported her because by the time we did the fundraiser the primary was over at that point and it was time to get on with picking someone to move forward, and she was the right person to side with." 
 
 The 56 -year-old actor said he kept waiting for Clinton to 'elevate her game' but that did not happen and it was a feeling that was shared by many of his liberal friends. "I never saw it. And I had a lot of liberal friends who were like, 'She's not good at this.' And I see that, and I understand it. I also think, though, that if it was a guy it wouldn't have been so polarizing. I think the fact that she's a woman made it a much harder uphill battle."
 
 Clooney said he thought she was not particularly good at articulating the things that she wanted to do. "Unfortunately we live at a time right now where articulating what you want to do is more potent in the electorate than the other way around, obviously, when Trump only said he was going to 'Make America Great Again.' Don't you think the next Democrat who runs should just run with a blue hat that says, 'Make America Great Again?,'" he said. 
 
 Clinton, on her part, has just released a book 'What Happened', offering her perspective on why she lost the election to Trump, who has emerged as one of the most controversial presidents in American history. 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
