MUMBAI: The state government informed the   on Monday that it has permitted a CBSE school in Borivli (West) to relocate itself temporarily to Borivli (East) for three years as a private structural report says the existing building requires redevelopment as it is in a dilapidated state. The HC, however, extended its interim order to let classes continue at the existing Factory Lane location of Borivli Education Trust-run Matushri Kashiben Vrajlal Valia International Vidyalaya, as parents who challenged the shift, sought time to go through the state’s decision.

 The school’s shifting drew over 200 worried parents again to court on Monday where they trooped into the court room of Justices Anoop Mohta and Bharati Dangre. Parents Tushar Shah and Pragnesh Gopani had moved court last month to challenge the management notice. Another group of parents sought to intervene. Their case is the school management “suddenly” in July cited “frivolous” grounds of “dilapidation” to justify the shift. The school has 2,298 students between classes I & X. 
 
 The court on September 7 directed the school to run at its old location till September 18, while directing the state to decide if it was permitting the shift under a 2013 government resolution. The state said the 2013 GR permits it to grant even a temporary shift, while parents say it only permitted a permanent shift. The school said the shift is only 1.5 km away to its other building of Seth G H High School, in Borivli (East).
 
 A civic structural engineer’s visual inspection report of September 1 points to cracks in beams, columns and slabs, and leakages in the building but says, “it is difficult to comment on structural position without detailed structural audit.” 
 
 The school’s reply denied shifting was a “sudden” decision as some parents alleged. It pointed to a CBSE notice of October 2016 which observed “unsafe partitions” and other issues to show cause why the school’s affiliation should not be discontinued. In June the school’s Parent Teachers’ Association in a letter to the principal referred to “dilapidated condition of third floor classrooms” said the school’s reply. The court will hear the matter next Monday when parents plan to challenge the state’s nod.
 
 
