PUDUCHERRY: For the first time in the history of the   of the Union territory of Puducherry, speaker   directed the government to relieve Puducherry   of duty and place him under compulsory wait after an MLA moved a privilege motion against the civic body chief, accusing him of   of the legislative assembly.

 Vaithilingam observed that Chandrasekaharn, while convening a meeting of stakeholders to review a civic issue at a residential hamlet coming under AIADMK MLA A Baskar’s constituency – Mudaliarpet – failed to inform and invite the MLA. Baskar, on learning about the meeting, visited the spot, leading to an argument between the two. Baskar preferred to raise the issue before the privilege committee of the legislative assembly, while the commissioner filed a police complaint against the MLA.
 
 Stating that the legislative assembly strongly condemned the action of the commissioner, Vaithilingam said the official lodged a complaint four days after the MLA brought the issue to the notice of the privilege committee. The speaker said police must not accept the belated complaint. But he gave an opportunity to the commissioner to appear before the committee to put forth his views.
 
 Vaithiligam, while forwarding the issue to the privilege committee chairman (deputy speaker of the legislative assembly), said the commissioner must be relieved of his duty and kept under compulsory wait until the committee resolved the issue.
 
 Earlier, chief minister V Narayanasamy, who also holds the portfolio of finance, presented a vote on account for Rs 1,481.61 crore to meet the expenses of the first quarter of the financial year 2017-18 amidst strong protests by the members of the opposition parties charging the government with failing on various fronts. The Congress government could not present a full-fledged budget as the Union government did not accord approval for the revised financial allocation sought by it.
 
 The members of the opposition parties – All India NR Congress and AIADMK – registered their protest against the speaker for denying them permission to raise a series of issues including exemption of Puducherry from the purview of Neet, sacking of workers from government-run corporations and seeking action against civic body chief for insulting an elected member.
 
 Leader of opposition and former chief minister N Rangasamy said the Congress, which has been ridiculing AINRC for passing votes on account instead of full-fledged budget during the previous regime (2011-2016), has itself presented a vote on account. He charged that the administration has been paralyzed due to the ongoing tussle between the elected government and the Lt. governor.
 
 Another member Anbalagan went to the extent of asking the legislative assembly to pass a resolution to urge the Union government to recall Lt. governor from the Union territory for interfering in the day to day affairs of the elected government. Meanwhile, former AIADMK MLA Om Sakthi Sekar, who joined the faction led by former Tamil Nadu chief minister O Panneerselvam, urged the speaker not to permit AIADMK MLAs to use the party name or symbol on the floor of the assembly. He has submitted a memorandum in this regard to the speaker. It may be recalled that the election commission of India, a week ago, passed an interim order freezing the ‘two leaves’ symbol and the party name in the run-up to the R K Nagar assembly byelection in Chennai.
 
 
