To curb   in city and make the roads a little safer, deputy commissioner of police,  , Amit Kale has some plans, which he shares with Shrutika Sukhi from TOI 

 Q: Over 20% accidents witnessed in the last eight months were fatal, what can be done to reduce these accidents?
 
 A: Most accidents occur because people do not follow traffic rules. We are conducting traffic literacy program, so that people know the rules and follow them. We are targeting school children as they are our future. It is also seen that parents follow when their kids explain them. We are even targeting the youth in the age group of 18-23 years, who are known for rash driving. We have put up 30 hoardings displaying traffic rules in Thane city. We also plan to make a jingle so that one not only hums it but also the rules keep hammering in people’s minds.
 
  Q: Many follow traffic rules in Mumbai, but fail to do so in Thane? What can be done to change the scenario?
 
 A: It is too disappointing to see many wear seat belt and helmet in Mumbai, but as soon as they enter Thane they remove them. This happens because they are penalized heavily in Mumbai and not in Thane. So now, we plan to take stern action against violators. We have e-challan system wherein officials click pictures of the violators and send the e-challan via speed post. If you fail to pay the fine then you have to go to the court.
 
 Q: There are many hit and run cases which are recorded, what can be done to reduce them?
 
 A: The reason that there are such cases is because there is no one around to witness these incidents. There is no traffic official during night time as we have staff of around 600 people and also no CCTV camera around. This can be avoided if there is 24hours watch on the road. If CCTVs are placed then such incidents will be noted and it will become easier to take actions.
 
 Q: Pedestrian accidents are also high in number. Does lack of footpaths is a reason?
 
 A: Footpaths make a lot of difference. I am going to ask the authorities to build more footpaths in the city. Another reason for these deaths are because people cross the road even when the signal is green for motorists. People should make use of the FOBs.
 
 Q What can be done about the bottle necks in the city?
 
 A: The only solution to do anything near Kopri bridge is to construct a bigger one. Earlier we had done trial of five minute halt of vehicles but it did not work out. Also, Pokhran road even though widened have bottle necks as there is road work going on.
 
 Q: How often are the departments like the  , PWD,  , MIDC contacted for any repairs, lighting or any road related work?
 
 A: We are constantly in touch with the departments like the TMC, MMRDA, PWD and the TMC and whenever anything is needed the departments are informed. Recently I had informed MMRDA to notify the lanes so that the vehicles could follow the lanes accordingly. For example, heavy vehicles to be in the last lane and light vehicles in the middle lanes.
 
  We are constantly in touch with civic departments and they are informed if anything is needed. Recently I had informed MMRDA to mark the lanes so that the vehicles could follow the lanes accordingly. For example: Heavy vehicles to be in the last lane and the light vehicles in the middle lanes.
 
