After nine hours on a plane, a forced landing in Hyderabad, thanks to the mayhem caused by Mumbai rains, and barely any sleep, we expected to find  ,   and   looking like bleary-eyed zombies. But far from that, we found the trio busy making plans to spend their evening in Hyderabad. 
“This city shuts at 11.30! What can we do?” exclaimed Taapsee. “Let’s meet some friends,” suggested Varun, adding, “Last time I was here I hung out with Ram Charan at his house. But he isn’t in town.” “Rana isn’t in town either,” said Taapsee wistfully. “Maybe we can go and meet Rajamouli. I want to know the story of Bahubali 3. But I don’t think he will be happy to see us,” joked Varun. 
 “No-no, he is a very sweet person. He’ll only be happy to see us,” said Taapsee, who obviously knew the Tollywood bigshots better than her co-stars. And she had a better plan too: “I think we should check whether Nag sir (Nagarjuna) is in town.” The original Judwaa was official remake of Nag’s Hello Brother, so everyone seemed to agree. “Yeah, I guess that’s a better idea. I met Akhil few days ago in Mumbai. He told me that he will make sure Nag sir sees the trailer,” said Varun.
 
 
 Incidentally, watching the original Judwaa is all the homework the trio did to prep for their roles in  . “What prep?! We weren’t even given a script,” they chorused in unison. “I asked David sir so many times, can I have my scenes? All he said was ‘Go watch the original,” said Jacqueline, rolling with laughter. “Mere saath bhi aisa hi hua,” cried Varun. “I was told, bas set pe aake yeh kar dena... kisi ko bhi pata nahi rehta tha ki uss din hum logo ko karna kya hai,” quipped Tapsee. Apparently, Dhawan had no script when shooting the original either, as Jacky discovered: “When I spoke to Salman and Karisma, they too said that nothing was planned or rehearsed; the whole movie was a product of spontaneity.”
 The prospect of being compared to  , Karisma Kapoor and   doesn’t daunt them. “We are all 90s kids. So we all have grown up on this film. I don’t think we will have to tell audience to come and watch the movie, because they own this film. All of us own this film,” said Taapsee. “People are saying that it’s a new cast, but that’s not true. It’s a mix-and-match of the old with new.  , Manish Malhotra, Ganesh Acharya, Anu Malik who were a part of the original are a part of this film too,” Varun added.
 
 
 As they rattled off about their on-set experiences, the Judwaa 2 stars seemed less like colleagues and more like buddies. Talking about her co-stars, Taapsee said, “Varun makes sure everyone is comfortable and happy. But he takes a lot of stress. I’d say he attracts stress! He takes tension for everything. He needs to relax. As for Jacqueline, I appreciate how she keeps smiling throughout; the way she handles stress with a smile is commendable.” 
 In fact, Jacky is so zen, that she “doesn’t think twice before jumping into water for a shot — even if there is very less water,” joked Varun, adding, “And when she got out of the water, she was covered in blood. But she is such a positive person. Uska blood group bhi B+ve hoga.” 
 “No, I am O+ve,” corrected Jacqueline. “My bad. No -matter-what, she is an amazing person. She always keeps smiling. I guess she smiles even when she is sleeping,” said Varun, trying to imitate a smiling Jacqueline who’s asleep, even as everyone rolled with laughter.
 
