HYDERABAD: An  ,  , jumped from the fifth floor of his   on Monday evening in an attempt to commit suicide, after he was allegedly beaten up by his lecturers.

 The 17-year-old student is studying  . According to his father, Manik Prabhu, the boy attempted suicide after returning from the college. “He came back at around 6.30 pm and straight away went to the fifth floor of our apartment.He called me at 6.40 pm and told me that he was jumping. Before we could do anything, he had taken the extreme step,“ said Prabhu.
 
 The boy, who suffered multiple fractures, was immediately shifted to a nearby private hospital, where his condition was stated to be critical. “Before jumping, he told me that he was beaten black and blue by three lecturers in the college because he had scribbled something on the benches of his classroom. He said he felt humiliated and decided to end his life,“ said Manik Prabhu.
 
 Refuting the allegations made by the student, the college authorities said that they had asked the boy to tell his father to meet the principal. “The student had scribbled obscene messages on the benches following which we had asked him to call his parents for discussions. The allegation that the boy was beaten up by the lecturers is false,“ said Santosh Reddy, viceprincipal of Sri Gayathri Junior College.
 
 While the parents demanded Rs 15 lakh from the college as compensation, the management offered to pay for the  . “We are not at fault. However, since the student felt pressured, we have come forward to pay for his medical expenses. Apart from this, there is not much we can do,“ said the principal. After recording the statement of Sanjay, Meerpet police registered an assault case against the college principal and two faculty members.
 
 “We have recorded the statement of Sanjay. The youngster said that his classmates saw him writing abusive words about a girl student of another class and alerted a faculty member, Sandeep at around 3.30 pm. Sandeep admonished Sanjay and took him to the principal. Another faculty member, Vamsi also came to the principal's room. While reprimanding Sanjay, the principal slapped him before asking him to bring his father to meet him,“ Meerpet inspector N Ch Ranga Swamy said.
 
 Based on the complaint from the victim's parents, police registered a case against college principal Rohit, lecturers Sandeep and Vamsi under sections 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) and 109 (abetment to commission of any offence) of the IPC. “We will issue notices to the faculty members to appear for questioning and recording their statements, before proceeding further,“ the inspector Ranga Swamy said.
 
 Meanwhile, alleging that students were being subjected to undue pressure and driven to commit suicide, ABVP members staged a demonstration in front of the college. They demanded suspension and arrest of the lecturers responsible for 'driving the student to attempt suicide'.
 
