NEW DELHI: A day after TOI front-paged the story on how cops had made   arrests in order to close a case of double murder and rape, Delhi   commissioner Amulya Patnaik on Saturday   the investigating officer involved and   the   of Khanjawala police station to district lines.

 The investigators had earlier implicated the husband and his nephew of the murder of a woman, who was also raped, and another man in February, but on Friday three arrested gangsters had confessed to the crime. Police sources said that a vigilance inquiry has been ordered into the episode and action is likely to be taken against senior officers who were monitoring the case.
 
 The policemen accused of fabricating the earlier arrest will be questioned and their statements recorded. The enquiry would be conducted by DCP (Vigilance) and the report submitted to the police commissioner within a month.
 
 The Crime Branch has taken over the murder-rape probe anew and launched a manhunt for two suspects, whom they named as Vikas and Mohit.
 
 The witnesses that the investigating officer had produced to corroborate the charges against the husband and his nephew would be re-examined by the Crime Branch. The two men currently in custody too would be questioned afresh before the cops allow their bail application. Police will also summon the doctors who conducted the post mortem and asked why the autopsy report did not mention anything about the probability of gang rape prior to her murder.
 
 A criminal case is likely to be registered against the investigating officer if he is found guilty of using fake evidence to back his case against the two men, for instance, by tampering with the autopsy report. The   will be asked if he had scrutinised the mobile phone locations of the arrested men to place them at the spots where the bodies had been found.
 
 Significantly, while announcing the arrest of the two men, the cops had not held a press conference or issued a press release to announce the solving of a sensational double murder case.
 
 
