MUMBAI: The Shiv Sena’s 20-year-old pre-poll tie-up with the BJP in India’s richest civic body has ended. The Sena will contest the February 21   on its own, party president   declared at a party conclave in the city on Republic Day, signalling the start of what may be a bitterly-fought poll campaign reminiscent of the diatribe-filled 2014 state assembly poll drive when the saffron allies had drifted apart.

 Mentioning the mass protests over Jallikattu in Tamil Nadu, the Sena president also said “the upcoming polls are a sporting event and the bull (BJP) needs to be tamed once and for all.” He also called the BJP a “goonda” party.
 
 The Sena has ruled the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), which has a budget of Rs 37,000 crore, since 1997 in alliance with the BJP, which has played junior partner. The BJP this time demanded 114 of the total 227 seats, while the Sena offered its ally in the state and at the Centre only 60 – five less than the BJP had fought in the last civic polls of 2012.
 
 Uddhav said the Sena will also contest polls to nine other civic bodies, including Thane, Pune and Nashik, and 25 zilla parishads on its own steam, triggering speculation on whether the break-up would have implications for the BJP-led state government led by Devendra Fadnavis.
 
 Sources however said the Sena's decision to snap ties with BJP may not have an adverse impact on the stability of the over-two-years-old state government. The Sena may take a call on continuation in the state regime after the  , sources said. Uddhav did not comment on a possible post-poll tie-up.
 
 The Sena-BJP’s seat-sharing negotiations were marked by uncertainty throughout, with the BJP insisting on “transparency” in the workings of the civic body. Fadnavis pressed this “demand” more than once in the run-up to the talks.
 
 After Uddhav’s announcement of going solo, Fadnavis reiterated, “Transparency is our top priority, and with or without anyone we will achieve the goal.” Scams, primarily those related to road and other works carried out by the BMC, have come to light in the last few years.
 
 In a reply to Uddhav’s comments, Fadnavis also tweeted, “Power ain't our ultimate goal but a medium of development. We will take along those who come with us and leave aside who don’t. Transform is inevitable!”
 
 Attacking the BJP, Uddhav said, “They have raised questions about the BMC’s transparency. I want to make it clear that in the civic standing committee meeting, opposition party members, a state-appointed bureaucrat and even the media are present. However, this is not the case in the state cabinet meet. We expect the same transparency in the state and at the Centre. Even a minister of state is not allowed to sit in the cabinet meet. Let’s allow the opposition leader too in the meet as he has the status of Cabinet rank, and let the Lokayukta, government officials and media too attend the meet.”
 
 “We are not here only to grab power but we were with BJP for Hindutva and for the betterment of the country. But we will not tolerate it if you try to enter my house and displace me,” said Thackeray, adding that he wondered why the BJP wanted to displace the Sena when it already had the PM’s and CM’s post.
 
 Mumbai Congress chief Sanjay Nirupam said, “If Sena has the guts, it should withdraw from the Centre and state [government]. It was a big drama that came to an end today. Alliance or no alliance, people of Mumbai will dislodge Sena-BJP.”
 
 NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik said, “We are prepared for mid-term polls. Fadnavis is all set to destroy the  . BJP has dumped regional parties in most states.”
 
