Coimbatore: The role of ICT Bridge conferences is to bridge the gap between the job cuts and opportunities in information technology and strive for innovations, N Subbaiyan, the director of employment and training, government of Tamil Nadu said. He was one of the chief guests for the Bridge conference organised by the ICT Academy of Tamil Nadu on Wednesday here.

 Subbaiyan said, “Though there are IT layoffs, constant innovations are happening in the sector at the same time. Conferences like Bridge should aim to connect the gap and create new opportunities.”
 
 He further spoke about how the Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation has been working on imparting skills to the youth. Subbaiyan said, “Nearly 8 lakh students pass Class 12 every year, of which 5 lakh go for higher education. We should take up the remaining and impart skill training to help them seek employment.”
 
 Citing an example of one such exercise, Subbaiyan said, “We trained 5,000 students of final year arts and science courses last year in soft skills and core competencies. Those training helped them to get job easily.” He also pointed out that with more than 500 industry partners, a youth is welcome to approach the skill development corporation and frame his/her own syllabus.
 
 Besides Subbaiyan, the chairman of KPR Mills, K P Ramasamy and the principal secretary, co-operation, food and consumer protection, Kumar Jayanth were the other two chief guests. 
 
 K P Ramasamy spoke about treating every individual of an organisation equally. Retracing his four-decade-old career journey, Ramsamy, said, “I had to get in and out of multiple professions before settling down in textiles. I was demotivated to start a power loom; however I took it as a challenge. Later I started a spinning mill, and today we have grown to 4 lakh spindles with 20,000 employees.” 
 
 Kumar Jayanth touched up on the innovations that were termed unviable for the market and went to become huge success. He cited examples of car, wireless music box, television sets and mobile phones.
 
  He urged the youth of the city to work on coming out with such innovations that will bring a change. 
 
 
