PATNA: Bihar deputy CM   on Monday condemned the attack on filmmaker   during the shooting of his movie,  , in Jaipur on january 27 and invited filmmakers to “culturally rich and developing Bihar” to shoot their movies.

 Tejashwi alleged the BJP government in Rajasthan failed to provide necessary security to Bhansali and his crew. It was because of lack of security that the filmmaker was roughed up and his set vandalised by assailants who alleged the director had “distorted” facts in Padmavati, he said, and assured all help to filmmakers if they come to Bihar for shooting.
 
 “What happened with Bhansali in BJP-ruled Rajasthan is very unfortunate. They (BJP) have it in their DNA to make ‘Hindustanis’ (Indians) fight against one another,” Tejashwi told reporters here on Monday.
 
 In a series of tweets later, Tejashwi and his father, RJD president  , berated the “elite” media for its failure to raise the issue as strongly as they raise every incident of crime in Bihar.
 
 “Had Bhansali been atacked in Bihar, there would have been endless debates on ‘jungle raj’ and casteism by elite journalists,” Tejashwi tweeted. 
 
 Lalu tweeted in Hindi, “Bihar hota to Bhajpaayee (pro-BJP) mediawala jatiwaad aur jungle raj ka rayta phaila kar Bihar ko badnam kar raha hota. BJP-shashit pradesh hai to ee sab chup hai” (Had it happened in Bihar, the pro-BJP media would have started defaming Bihar in the name of casteism and jungle raj. But they are mum because it has happened in a BJP-ruled state). 
 
 “I invite Bollywood to come & shoot in historical, glorified, culturally rich & developing Bihar. Will extend all sorts of help all the way,” Tejashwi said in another tweet. 
 
 Responding to Tejashwi’s invite, noted writer   tweeted, “Thank you for all your support for #HalfGirlfriend.” A movie adaptation of Bhagat’s novel, Half Girlfriend’s certain scenes were shot in Bihar last year.
 
 In another tweet, Tejashwi wrote to filmmakers: “Study Bihar, Know Bihar, Visit Bihar. Biharis are the most warm, fun-loving, caring and welcoming people... Bihar has more historical, religious, spiritual, natural & scenic significance than any other state.”
 
