
 
  
 
  From 2007-2012, when BJP was in power, Himachal won 85 prizes for good work at the national level. Whereas in the past five years, it is only corruption and mafia raj which has flourished. The CM (Virbhadra) is busy fighting cases, getting bail but failed to even implement projects given by the Central government. It is shocking that for a hill state, the Congress government has failed to sanction even a single detailed project report (DPR) for the 61 national highways sanctioned by the Central government. So there is loot ki khuli chooth (corrupt are having a free run) under a corrupt CM in a state which is now plagued by mining to forest to drugs mafia. People have started calling this government a mafia raaj. If we come back to power, our priority will be to utilise the Central projects and create infrastructure for farmers.
  
  
 
  It was a miscalculation on our part. There was no anti-incumency against us. Our vote was divided where we had independents from our own party. Besides, the distribution of tickets was not up to the mark. This time there has to be a better ticket distribution.
  
  
 
  It was UPA government when a preliminary enquiry was registered by CBI to look into allegations against him (Virbhadra). It was his corruption due to which he was forced to resign from the Union cabinet under Manmohan Singh's government. He and his family alone are to be blamed for their misdeeds.
  
  
 
  Rahul is not a serious politician. He does not understand what GST and its advantages are. I think he should be given some classes on GST. What do you expect from a man who does not know how a samosa is made.
  
  
 
  Priyanka, Robert Vadra, Sonia and Rahul Gandhi all tried their might in the UP elections but before the balloon could inflate it burst. Jab pump mein hi kharaabi ho toh gubaara nahin ud payega (when the pump is amiss, the balloon will not inflate). The problem is in the DNA of Congress. They should rather start planning what to do after 15 years because for the next 15 years nobody can dethrone Modiji. I have learnt that Priyanka's children have their surname as Gandhi and not Vadra. Is it Congress planning to plan a caretaker from the next generation of the family. For, the current produce (Rahul and Priyanka) has failed.
  
  
 
  From Nehru to Rajiv to Rahul Gandhi they all have had serious corruption allegations. No one from outside is being given the top post because of the insecurity of the Gandhi family. Congress does not have leaders, it only has chattukaars (sycophants).
  
  
 
  Rahul has seen a weak PM during UPA regime who used to take instructions from 10 Janpath. Perhaps he is missing his weak PM. Donald Trump could be leader of world's strongest economy but Modiji is the most popular leader in the world. From instituting an SIT to tackle black money to demonetisation to garnering support of foreign countries to tackle terrorism, to causing upsurge in FDI, Modiji has been a grand success.
  
  
 
  Nehru and Nehru alone. Having said that, Kashmir is one the most important states and an integral part of India. There is no denying that there has to be better integration (of Kashmir) with the rest of the India. The youth of Kashmir should be shown the plight of those living in Pakistan occupied Kashmir (PoK). The boys who have gone across the border want to return. It is only the future of Kashmiri youth which is being destroyed by the Hurriyat leaders and anti-national forces. After Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Modiji is the only ray of hope for solving the Kashmir dispute.
  
  
 
  It is the misfortune of this country that people who not only are accused but stand convicted are still enjoying the fruits of power I will urge the Supreme Court to finish the corruption cases within a deadline so that it acts as a deterrent for other corrupt politicians.
  
  
 
  Those political leaders who want to stay clean and do clean politics should decide wisely about their alliances. Bihar progressed only under the JDU and BJP alliance but in the last two years people have started talking about the goondaraj (hooliganism).
  
  
 
  Hers is a failed government. She, like Congress, is also confused. Her Ministers are neck deep in corruption cases and involved in scams, one after the other. She should focus on development instead of levelling wild and baseless allegations. She has failed to bring in any investment in the State. Besides, her image is anti-industry and she is busy in appeasement of minorities. West Bengal has become a hub of illegal cash drugs and illegal migrants.
  
  
 
  The situation should have been handled in a better manner by those at the helm of affairs in BCCI. The entire controversy has brought embarrassment to the coach and the captain. Such conflict has happened in the past but we must take a decision keeping in mind future of the Indian cricket. Virat Kohli has the leadership abilities to take Indian cricket to the next level. 
