Dhanbad: City commissioner Manoj Kumar on Saturday directed the Mineral Area Development Authority ( ) to submit list of maps of all buildings, including multi-storey apartments, which have been sanctioned by it. 

 Kumar also asked the authority to list steps it took against erring builders or owners who either did not get their layout maps sanctioned by the MADA for constructing structures or deviated from the original plan approved for the building.
 
 Dhanbad mayor Chandra Shekhar Agrawal said, “We have received information and the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation ( ) will soon do a door-to-door survey to identify such buildings,” he said.
 
 Till a few months ago the layout plan of buildings constructed in Dhanbad, Chas (Bokaro) till Jaina More were approved by the MADA. 
 
 The DMC has now taken over the process of sanctioning building layout plans. “No one can deny that thousands of houses built in Dhanbad do not have their map layout passed by the MADA. If a survey is carried out it will force open a can of worms,’’ said an elected councillor of the DMC .
 
 Details available with the MADA show as many as 456 buildings in Dhanbad, constructed till 2007, were built illegally. Sources in the MADA said thousands of houses, including multi-storey apartments and standalone houses have been built in the past eight years, but less than half of those have a sanctioned layout plan or have deviated from the approved design.
 
 “When I was in charge, notices were sent to 407 houses for  . At least 49 buildings were declared dangerous and should be demolished immediately. If a door-to-door survey is done today, more than 25,000 houses built in Dhanbad will be found to have deviated from the approved plan,” said former MADA managing director, Ravindra Kumar Singh..
 
 Singh said hundreds of houses recently constructed at Hirapur, Kusumpur, Dhaiya, Saraidhela, Dhanbad housing colony, Wasseypur, Purani Bazar and even in newly-developed colonies have been constructed without getting their layout sanctioned or have deviated from the original plan.
 
 
