JAIPUR: The resignation of   vice chancellor J P Singhal has failed to set the tone of similar fate for resignation by the vice chancellors of other universities who are falling short of academic qualifications set by the UGC regulations, 2010. Officials of higher education department seem to be in no mood to blink eyes on non-qualified V-Cs in light of Singhal’s exit followed by Rajasthan High Court’s oral criticism. 

 They showed the reason that high court did not pass any order on the petition challenging appointment of RU V-C, instead it disposed-off the case on January 9. “Had the high court passed an order to follow UGC regulations 2010 which includes the eligibility criteria for VC, it would have created a storm in many state universities. The oral criticisms are not on record that left us accepting the exit of Singhal unaffectedly,” said a senior education department official on the condition of anonymity.
 
 Since Singhal’s resignation, V-Cs of five varsities — Jagadguru Ramanandacharya Rajasthan Sanskrit University, Ayurved University, Veterinary University, Rajasthan University of Health Science all in Jaipur and   in Jodhpur who are not qualified under the UGC regulations, were under public scrutiny. In fact, a similar petition is likely to be moved challenging the V-C of   on Wednesday.
 
 The UGC has, for the first time, coined rules for the appointment of V-Cs under UGC 2010 regulations which was passed by both the houses of parliament. “UGC has asked the states to adopt the resolutions by amending their act,” said a senior UGC official. Entry 32 of list 2nd of schedule 7 enables states to incorporate, regulate and winding up universities. It means the state is only competent to provide regulations for university officials including V-Cs.
 
 Thus the chancellor appoints V-Cs on terms specified in university acts, said a government official, while quoting the   order on the matter of  , has held that UGC regulations 2010 are not mandatory until adopted by the state.
 
 At present five universities have initiated the process of appointing V-Cs without mentioning the eligibility criteria may go ahead with the process without any objection. “Until the state university acts are amended to incorporate qualification recommended by UGC regulations 2010, process adopted by these universities are in tune with the existing acts,” said an official.
 
