KOLKATA: Young   had ended the year 2016 with a bang, winning two gold and seven silver medals in the 60th national   championships in Pune in December.

 The teenager now looks set to create a bigger flutter in the new year.
 
 Riding her superlative performance in Pune, Mehuli made the cut for the national trials from which Indian teams for the upcoming international tournaments - including the next month’s World Cup series - will be picked.
 
 The 17-year-old shooter from Bengal grabbed her opportunity with both hands, making quite an impression in the trials, currently going on in Pune.
 
 On Monday, the first day of trials, Mehuli topped in all three categories she took part - youth (under-18), junior (under-21) and senior. She carried her superb form on to the second day too, competing against the likes of   and   and staying in the mix for a spot in the national team. 
 
 “Mehuli gathered 416.8 points while topping the trials on Day I. Although the tally matched her national junior record, it would not be counted since she’d done it in a trial,” her mentor and former Olympian   told TOI from Pune on Tuesday.
 
 Each contestant had to fire 40 shots in qualifiers and 24 shots in the final round of trials.
 
 Mehuli, a product of the city-based Joydeep Karmakar Shooting Academy, had a tally of 415.0 in the final round of trials. 
 
 While Mehuli’s performance is likely to give her an edge over other rivals in making the Indian team in international meets at junior and youth levels, it remains to be seen whether she’s able to make the cut for the ISSF World Cup series, to be held in New Delhi in February.
 
 New Delhi will also host the World Cup finals (rifle/pistol/shotgun combined) later in the year.
 
 “Mehuli has been in stupendous form during trials. She is within the range of minimum qualification mark (for the senior national team). Let’s keep our fingers crossed,” Joydeep maintained.
 
 The senior national team for the World Cup series and other international meets is expected to be picked next week.
 
