BENGALURU: A few days ago,   (name changed), a farmer at a village near Anekal, Bengaluru Rural, woke up to find a tombstone, along with an empty grave - one that had not existed before -at the corner of his plot.

 It was only on hearing of a similar structure coming up on his relative's plot in a neighbouring village that the penny dropped. Ramanna realised that it was a ploy hatched by land grabbers.
 
 Ramanna had earlier been approached by people claiming to be real estate executives, who evinced interest in his plot. In fact, his relative, Ankegowda (name changed) had to shell out more than a lakh to get the tombstone demolished, and regain his land.
 
 Considering the senti mental value attached to graves and tombstones, cases of landowners demolishing them, and subsequently registering a police complaint, are far and few between.
 
 Besides erecting gravestones, the other trick that those seeking to grab land resort to is planting saplings of   or tamarind trees, which are commonly associated with superstitious beliefs. Peepal is considered a sacred plant, and people of ten choose not to chop it, while there's a strong belief that ghosts take up residence in tamarind trees at night. Miscreants capitalize on these beliefs and silently coerce the landowner to dispose of the property, at least that portion where the sapling has been planted. Such an incident happened at a village near Magadi, where the owner sold a portion of his land for a throwaway price,“ said police sources, adding those who bought the land had no hesitation in getting rid of the saplings.
 
 If a plot is abandoned or if the owners are abroad, the situation becomes easier. “A family in   sold its land after miscreants planted a tamarind sapling on the plot. Although the landlord had settled abroad, his wife was superstitions and forced him to sell the plot. Those who were behind the appearance of the tamarind tree concocted stories about the property. Now, there's a three-storey building there,“ sources said.
 
 Landowners have filed complaints with   and Begur police to challenge similar attempts by realtors, said police sources.
 
