NAGPUR: Even after confirmation of the revaluation/retotalling scam in  , its administration is allegedly trying to suppress the issue, with a view to save the culprit — former assistant registrar, Sandhya  .

 VC SP Kane has refused to lodge an FIR stating that the matter was pending with the Nagpur bench of  . When pointed out to the similarities in the   and Chunodkar-Handa scams, where the modus operandi was to clear the students by using unfair means in revaluation, he said that in the second case the accused only helped her son.
 
 The panel also confirmed that Chunodkar-Handa’s son Karan, who was then a student of the third semester BE (Mechanical) when he appeared in the winter 2011 exam, was the ultimate beneficiary of increase in marks in re-totalling of three subjects and revaluation of two subjects. 
 
 “We’ve acted as per the court’s directives. If the court felt so, it should have directed us to lodge a police complaint. We’ve taken action as per rules. First, we suspended her, then launched a departmental enquiry and now terminated her. We can’t move beyond that,” he told TOI.
 
 Senior academician Eknath Kathale said that police complaint was the only alternative to reach to the roots of the scam, first exposed by TOI on July 8, 2012. As a   (DAC) chairman, he conducted the first enquiry against and indicted her for alleged involvement in the scam. 
 
 “It was not a single person’s work. NU limited its scope by probing only her son’s case, whereas more number of beneficiaries was involved,” said Kathale.
 
 He added that even the Board of Examinations (BOE) had accepted their report in toto. “Senior NU officials told me that they had taken a policy decision after Kohchade scam not to lodge FIR against anyone as it leads to their harassment and a legal fight. It was only after I strongly recommended citing chances of her tampering with the evidence, that NU finally suspended her,” he said.
 
 NU officials stated that Handa should have been booked under IPC Sections 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 (using as genuine as forged) for allegedly committing malpractices and using unfair means in exam work to give benefit to her son.
 
 Even former assistant registrar Yadav Kohchade was convicted under both these charges by the high court, although he was booked under Sections 420, 409 and 109, apart from 468 and 471. He was awarded five years of rigorous imprisonment along with Rs 15,000 fine.
 
