Middle-aged   in Bengaluru are putting their experience to good use. In recent years, they have been helping policemen rescue trafficked women, counsel the rescued girls/women and help send them back home. “Due to the involvement of NGOs, CBOs (community-based organizations) and various sensitization programmes, the stigma attached to sex workers has been decreasing steadily over the last 10 years. So, the police, who used to abuse us and treat us badly in the past, are now joining hands with us and are actively seeking our help in their rescue operations. We are told that because of our involvement, the number of child   cases have decreased. I am happy that I can help someone this way,” says Lydia, a sex worker.

 Pushpa Latha, another sex worker who we spoke to, stresses that what they do is like any other regular job, and they are, therefore, not very different from other working women. “You get up every morning, go to work, where you are expected to spend a minimum of 8-9 hours. We do the same thing, but the advantage that we enjoy is that we are like freelancers — when we are in need of money, we go out and work,” she says, adding that unlike regular working women, she has the freedom to refuse someone who she doesn’t want to sleep with, and can insist that men wear a condom each time. “How many women can insist that their husbands/partners wear condoms each time they have sex?” she says. “We are educated and careful about not contracting STDs. It is unfair when people blame us for a rise in HIV cases.”
 
  
  
 While there are plenty of   cases being reported, both the women say that if there were no sex workers, then the numbers would probably be bigger. “When men require action, they seek us out. I strongly believe that in the absence of sex workers, there would have been many more rape cases. Due to this and many other factors, we believe that we should be treated with respect. We are also daughters, wives, mothers and sisters — how are we any different from you? But people only see us as sex workers; that has become our identity. Why look down on us and treat us with disrespect? Ask any sex worker, and she will say that at the end of the day, it is not the money that is important to us; being spoken to with   means much more to us,” says Lydia.
 
 The many sanghas in the city have gone a long way in empowering female sex workers. “Unlike earlier, men now have a certain amount of fear, which is why they think twice before misbehaving with us. They know that if they try to manhandle us, then we will raise a ruckus and report them to the sanghas, who will handle the matter in a professional manner. Also, since   are now sensitive towards us, we are not averse to approaching them, which also ensures that our clients treat us well,” says Pushpa. 
 
