Nagpur: The city police’s efforts to tighten the screws on those breaking noise pollution rules have hit a hurdle after the lower court sought clarity over their authority to take action.  The case involves an FIR filed against top city Congress leaders who were participating in an anti-demonetisation agitation in ‘silent zone’ collector’s office last week. The permissible noise limit for silent zone is 50 decibels. On January 6, Sadar police under ACP (Sadar) Somnath Waghchaure had registered an offence after recording decibel levels at 109 dB(A) during the protest. Owner of the sound system and driver of the vehicle on which the system was mounted were also arrested.  Police sources said that when both the accused were produced in the Judicial Magistrate First Class (JMFC), the demand made by police to obtain their PCR was not accepted. “The court wanted to know if police can be a complainant,” said an official. Another police source pointed out that the judge had also sought information on the applications of provisions of Environment Protection Act. As per a notification that was issued by Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) on May 17, 1988, the central government delegated powers concerning Environment Protect Act to the state government.  According to Asim Sarode, a well-known lawyer from Pune, police are “empowered to become complainants and also apply relevant sections of the act”. “As per a GR issued by state government, police is one of the implementing authorities in noise pollution cases and have even been allotted noise meters to keep a check on decibel levels. Being an arm of the state, it doesn’t have to wait for a complain every time and has the authority to become a complainant and take action against noise pollution,” he added. A year back, the state home department had made police authorities responsible for initiating legal action in cases of noise pollution. Following this, senior police inspectors of every police station in the city were made designated officers to take action in noise pollution cases. A public notification regarding the same was also issued on the official website of Nagpur police. To get clarification, police is examining the related orders. “We might approach the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court to get correct interpretation and avoid such confusions in future course of action,” said a source. However till then, cops will not arrest any party member As per Noise Pollution (Regulation and Control) Rules (2000) issued by the ministry of environment and forests (MoEF), loudspeakers or public address systems cannot be used without obtaining written permission from the authorities. In case of non-compliance of rules, the punishment can extend to five-year imprisonment and a fine up to Rs1 lakh.