PUNE: A day before the withdrawal of nominations for the civic polls, BJP leaders are facing a tough time pacifying party workers agitated over the nomination of ‘imported candidates’, besides giving party tickets to the kin of senior members.

 For the last two days, senior leader and state food and civil supplies minister   has been talking with disgruntled party workers in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad urging them not to rebel against the official candidates and withdraw their nominations.
 
 Following huge unrest among the workers which came out in the open across the city, Bapat, on Sunday met partymen at the party’s headquarters and assured them that he would look into the issue.
 
 He said his full sympathy was with the party's loyal workers and supporters and the party had full faith in them. The party would take care of disgruntled workers, he said. 
 
 The supporters were not satisfied with Bapat’s answers. “It is not easy for leaders to settle the issue. Anger is still high and leaders will have to battle hard till the last minute to pacify angry workers shocked by the unexpectedness of candidates. Workers were angry after the list was out. Some sat on a hunger strike outside the party’s office while many shouted slogans,” a senior leader said.
 
 Among many disappointed loyalists are former corporator   and Satish Bahirat. They were denied tickets. Sardeshpande will now contest as an independent. She said she had been loyal to the party for the last four decades. 
 
 Bahirat said he was denied a ticket which was given to ‘imported candidate’ Reshma Bhosale. Bahirat has decided to contest too. 
 
 Sources said it was the first time the party has fielded candidates in every panel but failed to deal with discontent. Candidates in some seats could be defeated, they added. 
 
 The BJP’s state unit president   said on Monday that the party has received over 1,000 applications for 162 seats. “The party has given tickets to able candidates and some are disappointed over not been given the chance to contest,” Danve said.
 
