
 
    and high blood pressure (hypertension) are two major risk factors for heart attack and stroke (paralysis/ brain attack). Patients with diabetes are at higher risk for development of   in the future. Even otherwise, there is a tendency to increase ones blood pressure with age. Hence   is a very important step in risk reduction during an individual’s life. And limiting salt intake is a very important step in blood pressure reduction.
  
  Previous studies have shown that the risk of developing heart disease is double in people with average sodium consumption of 5.9 gms, as against those with average consumption of 2.8 gms. This risk becomes tenfold when the diabetes is not well controlled. In addition to appropriate sugar control, it is very important to emphasize proper salt intake to prevent hypertension and control of heart disease. Salt content is an important part of diabetic diet prescription.
  
  We all are aware of additional sodium we add to our diet when we use the salt shaker. However we also take excess amount of sodium in our diet unknowingly. Other sodium containing substances include sodium nitrate, sodium citrate, monosodium glutamate [MSG], and sodium benzoate. Some examples where these substances are present include commercially available packed and processed food like pickles, canned fruits, canned vegetables, cookies, wafers, frozen meat, frozen and canned fish, and other ready to serve preparations. It is very important that we avoid these items in our diet as much as possible. Instead we should try to consume fresh fruits and vegetables as much as possible. It is preferable to eat unsalted nuts, whole grain food without salt and fresh meat and fish than salted and processed similar food items. Also if eating processed or canned food is unavoidable, one should check the label for the sodium or salt content mentioned, and make necessary adjustments. During shopping in supermarkets for frozen or canned food items, try to choose food with low calorie, low fat and low sodium content. It is also a good habit to consider adding herbs and condiments while cooking for taste and flavor, instead of salt.
  
  For adults, the   recommends an ideal daily   of 1.5 mgm, and a maximum of 2.4 mg per day. (2.4 mg of sodium refers to one teaspoon salt). However the daily intake of people who eat processed food are considerably more than these limits. Hence it is very important that the society especially diabetics and hypertensives, take meticulous care of these.
  
  
 
  1. https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?contenttypeid=85&contentid=P00352
  2. http://www.diabetes.org/food-and-fitness/food/what-can-i-eat/food-tips/cutting-back-on-sodium.html
  3. http://news.health.com/2014/07/23/high-salt-diets-could-double-risk-of-heart-woes-for-diabetics/
  
  
 
  Dr. Tom Devasia, MBBS, MD, DM, FACC, FSCAI, FESC, PGD. Diabetology, MBA (HCS), Professor & Head of Department Cardiology, Kasturba Medical College, Manipal.
  
  tomdevasia@hotmail.com
  
  
  The views and opinions expressed by the Doctors are their independent professional judgment and we do not take any responsibility for the accuracy of their views. This should not be considered as a substitute for Physician's advice. Please consult your treating Physician for more details.
  
  
