BHUBANESWAR: The commissionerate police had opened an   here to bring traffic rule violators, make them sit for an hour and impart basic road safety laws, in a bid to create more awareness. 

 One month after its launch, the initiative has come a cropper with violators not opting to be caged for a long time to learn the lessons.
 
 So far, only 20 traffic violators have volunteered to undergo the basic training at the auditorium, which was inaugurated by DGP K B Singh on the campus of traffic police station here on January 10. At least 400 persons are caught flouting traffic rules at different places in the city on a given day. The 50-seater auditorium, built at a cost of around Rs 35 lakh, has a giant screen to play short video clips on road safety rules. 
 
 "We can neither force the violators nor drag them to the auditorium. After penalizing the violators, we ask them to come to the auditorium to get educated about road safety rules and penal provisions. But people are reluctant to visit the auditorium," said a traffic police officer.
 
 Officials attributed the reason of poor footfall to its location. "We have only one auditorium in our office at AG Square. People caught violating traffic rules at far-flung places in the city are reluctant to travel all the way to AG Square. Those who have so far been brought to the auditorium, were caught at AG Square only," ACP (traffic)   told TOI. 
 
 Asked whether there is a need for more such auditoriums or teaching centres in the city, Panda said the decision rests with the seniors. "We will definitely draw the attention of our seniors to the ground reality," Panda said. 
 
 Latest figures indicate that less road accidents claimed more lives in the smart city in the past one year. While altogether 175 persons were killed in 600 road accidents in 2015, altogether 186 people lost their lives in 598 mishaps, official statistics revealed. Commissioner of police Y B Khurania admitted it is a cause for concern. 
 
 "We will find out the cause of the higher number of deaths arising from lower number of accidents. Last year, we had conducted a road safety audit on the NH-16 between Bhubaneswar and Cuttack. This year, we will conduct the audit on the roads inside the city," Khurania said. 
 
 
