It's been two years since PK's release and speculations have been rife about  's next directorial. Ever since it was known that he'd given precedence to the   biopic over 'Munna Bhai 3', there've been plenty of rumours about when the film would roll, the cast and of late, that it's been shelved following Sanjay's thumbs down. The filmmaker breaks his stoic silence to say, "It goes on the floors today, January 14, and Sanju will give the clap. We are one big family. We hope to wrap it up by June and are targeting a Christmas 2017 release."

  
  
 He flashbacks to his first meeting with his 'Munna Bhai' when he was out on parole. One day, Raju dropped by to meet him around 5 pm and stayed on till 3 am listening to Sanjay talk about his unusual life, mesmerised. The next day, the actor called around 4 pm, inviting him over and again he stayed on for 10 hours. The routine continued through 25 days. During the day he'd edit 'PK', from 5pm to 3am it was back to Sanjay's home in Bandra. By the time Sanjay returned to jail, Raju had 200 hours of recorded conversations with him and no intentions of turning it into a film. But the story followed their LCD (Laugh, Cry, Drama) principle so he asked his writer-partner Abhijat Joshi to fly down to Mumbai and after Sanjay had given him permission to tell his story truthfully, without glorifying him, started working on the script, cross-checking every detail, including the seemingly unbelievable story of him arriving at an Independence Day celebration in Chicago and the crowds turning away from the then city mayor,  , to rush towards him with shouts of "Munna Bhai..." The incident was chronicled in the Chicago Tribune.
 
 "It's not a film about guns, drugs and the underworld. It's a feel-good film about a father-son relationship with   playing   and Ranbir as Sanju... A buddy film with Sanju's many friends adding up to one from the US, played by Vicky Kaushal," Raju informs.
 
 There's also   as a journalist,   embodying all the women Sanjay has loved and Jim Sarbh. The hunt for an actress to play   is on.
 
 Why Ranbir, you wonder, and Raju says there's some thing about the 34-year-old actor, like his droopy eyes, that reminds him of Sanjay from his Rocky days. Also, he's a star son himself who's spent a lot of time with Sanjay. For the last six months Ranbir has been prepping up for a role that spans from 21 to 56 years, putting on 12 kgs. "He has to put on a few more kilos before losing it all.The first time I saw him in get-up, I thought it was Sanju. I clicked him and sent it across to Sanju who wondered why I was sending him his own pictures," Raju laughs, quick to add that there'll be touches of Ranbir in his Sanjay too.
 
 Quiz him about his first interactions with his Munna Bhai and Raju admits that he's one of the warmest people he's met but he was baffled by Sanjay's complete lack of prep. "He'd disinterestedly ask someone to read his lines to him in the make-up room and appeared to not have heard a word, nor would he rehearse. It was only later that I realised he has a photographic memory and needs to look at a page for five minutes and he'll have memorised it. Dutt saab (Sunil Dutt) pointed out that he's a spontaneous actor like his mother Nargis who'd laugh and play around before an emotional shot, then easily shed tears for the camera," Raju informs, remembering the senior Dutt who'd returned to films after 16 years with his directorial debut, 'Munna Bhai MBBS', as a pro who'd turn up at 8.30 am for a 9 am call time, never wanted to look at the monitor after a shot, was surprised to be given a makeup man and came for the dubbing after six months with his script, the lines written in Urdu as requested. "When we were shooting the last scene, he had a frozen shoulder and couldn't lift his hands to hug Sanju the way I wanted. When he heard his son whisper to me not to pressurise him, Dutt saab told me he'd do it my way and despite the pain gave Sanju a jadoo ki jhappi."
 
 Dutt saab is no more but will we see Sanjay in the film?
 Raju informs that "if we do, it will only be in the end credits, though he did shoot the actor the day he left Yerwada Jail and even visited the jailor's invi coming and whit was an emotional moment for both of us," Raju says as he gets ready to take Sanjay's story to the world.
 
  
  
 
  
  
