LUDHIANA: Married for just a year, a   and tried to dispose of the body in   at dawn on Wednesday. But cops deputed at a check-post foiled his plans.

 Daba police arrested   in Daba area, a truck driver by profession, for the murder and recovered his wife's body from the cabin of the truck.
 
 Policemen deputed at a checkpost in Lohara nabbed Nishan after growing suspicious about him. Police said when they tried to stop a truck with registration number HR55P-0979 (coming from Sangowal Bridge towards Lohara), the driver sped away towards   after breaking the barricade.
 
 When cops chased down the vehicle, Nishan ran away after leaving the truck, but he was overpowered by the cops after a brief chase.
 
 Later when they checked the truck, the body of a young woman was found from the cabin. Police said as a dupatta was also lying near the body, they suspected that the accused might have strangled her.
 
 They added that the Aadhar card recovered from the deceased mentioned her name as Manpreet Kaur, wife of Jaswinder Singh of Kot Dharam Chand Khan in Tarn Taran. Police also found her mobile phone from the truck's cabin.
 
 SHO Daba Baljeet Singh said after questioning, the truck driver revealed that the body was of his wife whom he had married in a court last year. Nishan told them that both used to have frequent fights after he came to know that she was already married.
 
 Police said she had gone to Tarn Taran after fighting with him some time ago and had returned on Tuesday . The accused had gone to pick her up from the bus stand and had dinner together. Later, the accused fought with her and strangled her. He dumped her body in the truck's cabin.They added that after spending a night in the vehicle with the body near Tibba bridge, he tried to dispose it of on Wednesday morning. But he was nabbed before he could do so.
 
 Police officials said it was Manpreet's second marriage.She had two children 足足 a son and a daughter 足足 from her first marriage. Police have booked the accused under Sections 302 (murder) and 201 (destroying evidence) of IPC.
 
