BENGALURU: After 14 years spent behind the  , it was with trepidation that  , who was released on the occasion of the  , walked out of   on Thursday.

 Eager to see his 105-yearold mother, Ramchandrappa, jailed along with five of his brothers for his role in a group clash that left three dead, said, “Last time I was out on parole, she told me she would die only after I was released.“ A for mer teacher, Ramachandrappa was one of the 61 prisoners who were granted freedom on Thursday in Bengaluru.
 
 While another brother was released from Parappana Agrahara, two of his siblings were released from  .
 
 In all, 144 prisoners, including a woman, were released from various prisons across the state. “I hope the other two brothers are released in August , “ Ramachandrappa added.
 
 Stepping out of the gates after spending years within the confines of the jail, the prisoners appeared to be gripped by a host of emotions, ranging from joy to anxiety.
 
 Ganesh, 54, a former physical education teacher at a junior government college in Shivamogga, said that he would spend the next four days touring all temples across the state, including Hampi. Ganesh, who was also imprisoned for his role in a group clash that resulted in one death, said that he was delighted to be out of jail.“After visiting all temples, I will go to my village in Chitradurga where I will tend to my land,“ he added.
 
 On the other hand, Ravi, who was reluctant to divulge reasons that led to his incarceration, left the prison with a kitten. “This was my only friend during my jail term,“ he said.
 
 Jailed for murdering his father's killer, 32-year-old Yogesh said that he had been born again. “This is my second birth, and my life begins anew hereon,“ he said.
 
 Home minister G Parameshwara and director general of police (prisons) HN Sathyanarayana presided over the release of the prisoners.
 
 Calling for a revision in the daily wages of skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled inmates in the state's prisons, Parameshwara said, “1055 prisoners have been released for good conduct in the past three years.“
 
