VARANASI: The Akhilesh Yadav-led Samajwadi Party (SP), which has just come out of the family feud retaining the cycle symbol, is likely to receive a jolt from the   (RUC) in   patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav’s parliamentary constituency Azamgarh besides several Assembly constituencies all over the state. The RUC has decided to field candidates on over 50 seats which may result in erosion of SP vote bank.

 “We will field over 50 candidates and contest the Assembly election on social issues. We will expose the SP through ‘Pol-Khol Abhiyan’ (expose SP campaign) during electioneering,” RUC founder Maulana Amir Rashadi said while talking to TOI on Saturday. “We will hold a meeting in Azamgarh on Sunday to begin our poll campaign,” he added.
 
 “Modi ek dange se dangai ho gaye, aur jo 475 dange Akhilesh ke samay huye uska kya (Modi became a rioter with just one riot in 2002 post-Godhra ... what about the 475 riots that took place during Akhilesh’s regime),” wondered RUC chief. He alleged that the SP always treated Muslims as its vote bank for political gains and did nothing for their welfare when it came to power. 
 
 On the SP feud, he said, “The family drama was scripted in election time to divert people’s attention from the failure and non-performance of the Akhilesh government. We will expose the Yadav family infighting drama.” 
 
 The RUC came into existence after 2008   encounter in which two youth of Sanjarpur were killed. In 2009, the RUC supporters had booked a train from Azamgarh to New Delhi and held protest, demanding judicial probe into the encounter. 
 
 “The demand of judicial probe into Batla House encounter is also the part of our main issue of social justice,” said Maulana Rashadi.
 
 The RUC is also in talks with other like-minded parties to form a front against SP as well as BJP in the Assembly elections. “We are exploring possible alliances with some parties and talks are on. But, as of now, we are yet to forge any alliance,” he said, adding that the RUC will field candidates on all seats in Azamgarh district besides the districts of eastern, western and central UP. 
 
 The message is clear that RUC’s move would make a dent in SP vote bank. All seats of Azamgarh district along with majority of seats of eastern UP were won by the SP in 2012 election, throwing out the Mayawati government. Even a slightest deviation of votes due to RUC can adversely affect SP’s prospect in the upcoming elections, political observes feel.
 
 The RUC had contested 2012 Assembly elections on 64 seats but failed to win even a single seat. “It is our starting phase to build up the party and we are getting people’s support and recognition. It took almost 30 year for Kanshi Ram to build BSP. We are hopeful of getting such a position in next 10 years,” the Maulana added.
 
 
