CHINTOOR (EAST GODAVARI):   cops, especially in the merged mandals, are forced to be always on their toes due to constant infiltration by naxals from the  , Telangana and Odisha. 

 Chintoor and Yetapaka share their borders with all the three neighbouring states. Sources said although the locals of   do not support naxals, the area has been a gateway for the Maoists to enter AP through East Godavari district. Around 20 villages in the mandal that share borders with Telangana, Chhattisgarh and Odisha are infested with Maoists who operate in East Godavari and cross the borders to Chhattisgarh or Odisha to evade arrests. Maoists have planted land mines on the road leading to the armed outpost at Edugurallapalli in the mandal at least six times. 
 
 “Naxals have been crossing National Highway 224 from Chintoor to Jagdalpur via Bhadrachalam regularly. They are now showing dominance through indiscriminate killings as part of their revenge for the Ramaguda encounter. Some of the Guttikoyas who migrated from Chhattisgarh are also supporting the naxals,” a senior police officer told TOI on conditions of anonymity. 
 
 Maoists suspected 36-year-old Parsika Pullayya to be a police informer and killed him in broad daylight in front of his relatives at Alligudem, 8 km away from Chhattisgarh border, on Sunday. This is the fourth time in two years that Maoists killed a person after branding him as informer. 
 
 According to sources, two people were killed in 2015 and a pastor was murdered in 2016. Cops have exchange fire with the naxals twice in 2016 — at Saragagutta and Mallampeta. 
 
 “After losing many cadres in the Ramaguda encounter, Maoists have been striking at will in all corners of   and neighbouring Chhattigarh and Telangana borders. They killed five tribals in the cut off area of Malkangiri, but the news never appeared in the media,” an anti-naxal wing officer told TOI.
 
 Recently, the naxals killed eight drivers of Koraput district police department at Sunki ghat road by blasting a land mine and killed a ward member at Mattili in Malkangiri district. They are trying to divert the attention of the cops in AOB, police sources said. 
 
