MUMBAI: At a time when the   is rolling out a stringent   policy, a majority of public parking lots that were to be constructed in lieu of additional   (FSI) to builders have remained on paper. A look at the status of the FSI-for-parking scheme, launched nine years ago, shows that just 6,432 or 13% of the 50,296 parking slots approved have been handed over to the BMC so far.

  activists said construction of even 13% of the approved parking slots appears exaggerated. Development Control Regulation 33(24) states builders can construct public parking lots on a portion of their land and hand them over for free to the BMC in lieu of additional incentive FSI up to 4, which allows them additional construction rights to build skyscrapers for sale.
 
 A total of 71 plots had got approval to construct the parking lots, of which just 16 have been handed over to the BMC, said an official. “So far, the BMC had issued a letter of intent (LoI) for 71 parking lots. We are in the process of taking over the spaces and opening these up for public parking,” said an official.
 
 Corporators have, time and again, termed DCR 33(24) a failure saying the scheme was builder-driven. Corporator Mohsin Haider, also a member of the civic improvement committee, recalled visiting a mall in Goregaon’s S V Road in 2016, which was given additional FSI in lieu of constructing a public parking plot. “However, on our visit, we found that the builder had not handed over the parking spaces at all despite constructing on the basis of the incentive FSI. Therefore, in a way, DCR 33(24) has only helped builders. Besides, most people are unaware that such parking spaces exist in the first place,” said Haider
 
 Mahim-based transport activist Ashok Datar said: “One finds few parking lots on the ground; even 12.3% seems to be an exaggerated figure. Therefore, there is a need for a physical independent survey to find out why these spaces have not been handed over by builders while they get additional FSI to sell flats worth crores. This is very contradictory, especially because in a city where there is a shortage of homes for the middle-class, builders are being given additional FSI to construct parking lots and they, in turn, build expensive homes,” said Datar. At most of these multi-level parking spaces, motorists are known to be charged around Rs 25 for three hours.
 
 
