CHENNAI: March 20, 2011.Sounds like distant memory?

 It was Holi and on a super hot day in Chennai,   blazed away to a 113 against West Indies in a World Cup group league match. That innings was one of the many reasons why he won the Player of the Tournament award in India's biggest ODI success in recent years. Little did Yuvi know that it will take him another six years to score his next ODI ton.
 
 A lot has happened in Yuvraj's life since then -he has fought cancer, almost singlehandedly lost India a T20 World Cup final and kept going in an out of the Indian team. But there was one common thread -he never gave up.
 
 And on Friday in Cuttack, when Yuvraj went out to bat, he knew he was on trial. There are many contenders for the No. 4 slot in the ODI team, he hadn't got runs in the first ODI, and a failure would certainly have made   -Yuvi's biggest backer in recent times -think about giving Manish Pandey a chance in the remaining game in this series, the last One-dayer before the Champions Trophy .
 
 A score of 22-2, which became 25-3 very soon, isn't exactly a platform for a stroke-player to go out and play his shots. But there was a calmness about Yuvraj on Thursday. It seemed the left-hander had cleared the cobwebs of the mind and was playing a game that made him one of the best ODI players of the first decade of the 2000s. “I had a word with Sanjay Bangar (batting coach) and I told him after the first ODI that the way I was hitting the ball I will go big,“ Yuvi said. He has scored centuries against more challenging attacks than this one. But given the circumstances, this one meant a lot. “This is probably one of my best innings...I just wanted to play down the ground and not take much risk. I have been hitting the ball well in the whole domestic season,“ Yuvi summed up his effort.
 
 The fact that   settled down at the other end made things little easier for Yuvi.Dhoni understands Yuvi's game well and he kept reminding the 36-year-old that he has to keep going even after the century.“Dhoni has been a sensational captain for India, I said before when Mahi is not captaining, he will bat more freely,“ the 36-yearold had a word of praise for his old mate at the other end. Even before this series, Yuvraj had said, “Dhoni has a lot to contribute as a player in the team. I think he's gonna play the way he used to. We were both very fearless when we used to play together, so hopefully we can do the same in the upcoming series.“
 
 
