AURANGABAD: The  , one of the earliest centres of rock-cut architecture in India and older than the world-famous Ellora caves, especially the paintings over there, are lying in a state of utter neglect. 

 Experts and historians accused the  , Aurangabad, of not paying due attention to conservation of images at the caves while calling for chemical treatment for the paintings on the lines of Ajanth to control the damage. 
 
 A ToI visit to the caves revealed that the paintings are getting rapidly damaged, largely due to natural weathering process and biogenic influences. 
 
 While the ancient heritage itself dates back to 2nd century BC, the paintings found in cave number 3 are believed to be artwork of the 5th century surviving. The front pillars and upper portion of the walls of the cave house these impressive paintings, but most of them are getting worn out. Located around 75km from Aurangabad and 45km from Ellora caves, the Pitalkhora caves are governed by the   (ASI).
 
 Dulari Qureshi, an expert in art history, accused the ASI of confining its focus to Ajanta and Ellora caves and allowing other more ancient structures like the Pitalkhora caves to "die a natural death".
 
 "The Pitalkhora caves and the paintings have already received a lot of damage due to natural weathering in the absence of scientific intervention. It is very unfortunate that these ancient paintings have been totally ignored and deprived of chemical treatment," she said. 
 
 Umesh Bagade, head of history department at  , said, "Pitalkhora epitomises earliest rock-cut architecture in the country and it is unfortunate that it is lying in such a state of neglect. The ASI top brass and the ministry concerned should ensure that what was once hailed as a   for the ancient trade route in the world remains available for future generations," he said. 
 
 While a dedicated chemical laboratory has been set up at the Ajanta caves for conservation of paintings, similar arrangement has been sought by experts for the Pitalkhora caves.
 
 When contacted, A M V Subramanyam, acting superintending archaeologist of the ASI, Aurangabad circle, questioned the knowledge of experts who have been pressing for conservation of paintings at Pitalkhora.
 
