Fans of   and  , rejoice. ‘Fidaa’ has finally waltzed its way into theatres today and ready to make the audience go  . Here are 5 reasons that movie lovers want to watch this Sekhar Kammula-directed film:
 
 
 Undoubtedly, Sekhar Kammula is one of the most sensible filmmakers of   from the current lot, and presents youthful love stories in a realistic manner. When Kammula announced ‘Fidaa’, in which he has cast Varun Tej and Sai Pallavi, fans of the director went into a tizzy and have been waiting for the movie with bated breath. 
  
 
 Sai Pallavi swept everyone off their feet (including girls, yes) as ‘Malar’ from ‘Premam’. This movie will mark the Tollywood debut of the chirpy girl, who has earned a good number of fans with her dance performances before venturing into movies. Would you believe if we told you that director Kammula and producer Dil Raju waited for six months for her to finish her education before joining the sets? It’s true! Adding to her persona and charm, Sai Pallavi has dubbed for her character in the film, and we are floored already.
  
 
 We know how Kammula treats love stories. In ‘Fidaa’ too, he has hinted about a love-hate relationship between a guy raised abroad and a rustic belle coming closer, breaking up and then reuniting for a happily ever after, as the film’s tagline goes, ‘Love-Hate-Love story’. 
  
 
 Music by Shakti Kanth for this chilling love-story has already won applause from music lovers. Tracks like ‘Vachinde’, ‘Hey pillagada’ and ‘Oosupodu’ have been topping the charts. Plus, elaborately shot in Banswada of Telangana and in various US locales, the film’s cinematography by   is refreshing.
  
 
 A producer, known to have the knack for script-oriented commercial cinema and a National Award in his kitty for a wholesome family entertainer, has collaborated with a director, who does not believe in glamour and the star system. Killer combo, this! During a media interaction, Kammula mentioned that Dil Raju had been wanting to collaborate with him for a youthful entertainer (‘Fidaa’), where the script is the king and a larger-than-life canvas. 
 
 
