NAGPUR: Completion of new campus of  , one of the best disaster management institutions, is stuck in red tape and civic body’s failure to remove encroachments.

 Spread on a sprawling 43-acre land, the work on the new campus was started at   in 2010. The estimated cost was Rs 103 crore but was revised to Rs 205 crore. The original deadline for completion of construction work was May 2014. The agency entrusted with construction work —   — missed both the extended deadlines of March 2015 and November 2016. 
 
 According to sources, a fresh deadline has been sought to complete the works. They said the entire allocated funds of Rs205crore have been spent but many works remain to be completed. 
 
 On Saturday, when TOI visited the upcoming campus, it found only the academic building and hostel functional. 
 
 The entrance land is still occupied by slumdwellers.   is yet to lay a proper road inside the campus. Auditorium and laboratory buildings are still incomplete. The facility is yet to get a water supply connection. In the absence of boundary wall, cattle are being freely grazed on the premises. 
 
 Sources said that security has become a major concern since anti-socials from the slums are intruding the place. Slumdwellers are defalcating on the campus and at times stealing equipment. 
 
 NFSC director Shamim had to deploy private security guards to ensure safety of office infrastructure and official properties, sources added.
 
 Sources blamed the sorry state of affairs at the campus on slow decision-making by ministry of home affairs that governs the college. 
 
 “Even in laying road a lot of time was wasted.First they had planned to lay tar road. But CPWD estimated Rs 1crore while consultant VNIT estimated Rs 11 crore. Now, the tar road is being laid,” sources said. 
 
 Similarly, at every juncture, a lot of time is being wasted in taking decisions by the bureaucrats, they added. 
 
 NFSC director Shamim refused to comment on the issue. CPWD chief engineer KV Singh could not be reached for his comments.
 
 Municipal commissioner   said the encroachments were removed but slumdwellers returned later.
 
 The college officials admitted that since a compound wall was not built the land was encroached again.
 
