After 27 years of graduating from  , director and producer   was invited back for the first time as the guest of honour at the Golden Jubilee celebration of the college. Shoojit, who graduated in BCom (Hons), could not contain his excitement at the event. He said, “I can’t explain the level of my joy and excitement. If my father was alive today, he would have been really proud to see that after 27 years my college has invited me as the guest of honour.”
Jagdish Mukhi, Lieutenant Governor of Andaman and Nicobar Islands and a former teacher at the college, was the chief guest at the event. While addressing the audience, he said, “I used to teach here and today its feels like I have come back to my family. Mujhe yaad hai hum iss college mein unko admission dete the jinka kahin admission nahin hota tha. Humne 66% wale logon ko BCom diya hai. But the college has come a long way now. People now compare this college to SRCC, which is an achievement in itself.”
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 Talking about his college life,   told everyone that he got through   but didn’t take admission there as his best friend had already taken admission in Shaheed Bhagat Singh College. He said, “I was a footballer during my school and college days. Though I didn’t score well in Class XII, I got through KMC through sports quota. But, at the time, I didn’t go for KMC as my best friend had taken admission here and I wanted to study with him. My dad was disappointed with my decision as at that time north campus was considered to be the elite campus, if you could get admission in any college in North Campus it meant that you were something, but if you got  , it meant that you were just ok. But I didn’t mind that.”
 He added, “I think one learning that you guys can take from this is that one should never leave his/her school and college friends kyuki uske baad professionals hi milenge, dost nahin”.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Shoojit told everyone that he got to know about Bhagat Singh’s life in detail only after he joined the college. He said, “Once I took admission in the college, I started reading about him and became his fan. My other friends, who were in Hans Raj, Ramjas and Hindu College, stopped talking to me as they thought they were in the elite class. One day, I just got irritated with their behaviour and went to them and proudly said ‘Shaheed Bhagat Singh se hoon’. You know who he was? He sacrificed his life for us when he was 23, koi hai aisa tere college mein?’ That is how my love for Bhagat Singh began.”
 
  
  
 
 
 Shoojit, who is known for making movies on offbeat topics, said that people thought he was a mad person when he wanted to make  . He said, “It was a really awkward moment when I approached Ayushmann (Khurrana) to play the lead role in Vicky Donor. I just went to him and bluntly asked, ‘Sperm donor ka role karega?’. He looked at me and he was dazed, he thought that I had lost it completely.” He added, “I thought the same thing will happen to me when I approached   for  . I told him, ‘Sir, this is a story of a man who is 75, has a daughter and who is always irritated and constipated.’ I was sure that he was going to say no to the film. How can a superstar do a role of a constipated man? But thankfully he agreed to do the film.”
 
