KOLHAPUR: Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana, the farmers' organisation that is in alliance with the BJP, is likely to go with factions of   and   for the forthcoming Zilla Parishad and panchayat samiti elections in the district. 

 SSS leader Raju Shetti recently convened a meeting with Congress leader from Ichalkaranji Prakash Awade and Shiv Sena MLA from Hatkanangle   to discuss the alliance. Sources said they would be declaring the alliance soon. 
 
 While searching for alliance partner, the BJP leaders apparently never took the SSS into consideration. This caused much heartburn and resulted in the party going away from BJP for the local body elections. During the   election in 2014, the BJP had formed an alliance with the SSS and the alliance continued till the state assembly elections that year. 
 
 According to sources in the SSS, after winning both the elections, the BJP has sidelined the leaders from the farmers’ outfit. They claimed that the BJP was taking SSS for granted while taking any decision. This has angered the SSS leaders but they are not willing to break the alliance the party that is in power in the state and the Centre.
 
 “When BJP leaders initiated discussion with the other parties in the district, they did not consult us and formed alliance with the parties that are our rivals. Even during seat-sharing, we were not considered. This just shows the attitude of the BJP towards alliance partners. We will now show the BJP that we helped them come to power and not the other way around,” said a senior leader of SSS.
 
 “We have already discussed with Shiv Sena leader Sujit Minchekar and Congress leader Prakash Awade and are planning to form alliance for Hatkanangle and Shirol taluka, which are out traditional strongholds. The final list of candidates will be announced within two days after all the three factions come to the conclusion over the number of seats each one is going to contest. We will also field candidates in the other talukas but our main focus will be on these two talukas,” the leader said.
 
 The leader explained that they had formed an alliance with the Congress and won five seats during the last  . This time, the party is hoping to increase its presence in the district.
 
