KOLKATA: You cannot pull him away from an inferno, neither can you put out his burning passion of saving lives. Bipin   (40), the volunteer firefighter, who was conferred   barely a few months ago, was back to doing what he does the best: fighting blazes and rescuing lives from the leaping flames. As he learnt about a fire at a Burrabazar shop on Wednesday , he dropped everything to reach the spot and got down to work, not even bothered that he did not have safety gear. An electrician, Ganatra has had no formal training in firefighting. But driven by his selfless devotion to save lives, he has been darting into infernos to rescue victims for the past 40 years, an act that has earned him Padma Shri.

 “I reached the Burrabazar shop as soon as I got the news of the fire. I reached before the entire firefighters' team arrived. As I did not have proper gear, I started working outside on the road, clearing traffic and taking the injured to safety ,“ said Ganatra. Thirteen people, including 10 firemen, were injured in the multiple low-intensity explosions.
 
 So why did he take the risk?
 “Why not? I am the same man.Nothing has changed,“ said Ganatra, sitting at his modest ho me on   off Central Avenue. After a pause, he added: “I now have huge responsibility on my shoulders.I cannot ignore any cry for help because that has got me such an honour in the first place.“
 
 Even jealousy from certain quarters has been able to do little to keep Ganatra from responding to the call of duty . Soon after he was awarded Padma Shri, some of his “seniors“ at the fire department reportedly stopped communicating to him about any blaze, apparently to stop him from “stealing their show“.Though Ganatra declined to comment, an officer from the department said the national honour did not go down well with some as he was not even part of the department. “But the seniors have been helpful. Not only did they felicitate him but also told the others from the department to follow in Ganatra's footsteps,“ said the officer.
 
