KOLHAPUR: The   of the   have approved the   in which over 100 new courses will be introduced across colleges in the division.

 The green signal to the plan was approved in a senate meeting held in the university campus on Tuesday.
 
 According to the master plan,   will be installed in remote areas across the division that will give an easy access to the study material for students from these areas. 
 
 Pro vice-chancellor of SUK D T Shirke told TOI, “The management and the academic council have already approved the said plan. We will now forward the plan to the state government.”
 
 Explaining the details of the plan, Shirke said that SUK had conducted individual meetings with the stakeholders and separate committee members across Sangli, Satara and Kolhapur. The meetings were conducted in the month of May where stakeholders such as the industrialists, teachers, principal and even parents were present. 
 
 We have recorded their suggestions and we will take a final call in consideration with their suggestions. 
 
 “We have received over 100 proposals for starting new colleges, courses and faculties across the division. Unfortunately, we cannot address and implement all the recommendations. Of all, these recommendations must comply with the perspective plan criteria put forward by the veteran educationalist Narendra Jadhav, who had laid the foundation stone for creating a master plan for five years. Criteria such as financial requirement, geographical requirement, faculty availability, expertise were taken in consideration while finalising the plan,” he said.
 
 He added, “During the meeting, we found out that the division needs courses that involve skill-based training, courses in relation with tour and tourism and the ones with fruit processing, leather technology and sugar technology.” 
 
 An SUK official said, “The academic requirements for the next five years should be first complied. The employability of students and creation of skill-based courses are one of the other major topics of the master plan.”
 
 It has to be noted that due to rise in HSC result in the past two years, more students are willing to get enrolled in conventional courses such as arts, commerce and science resulting in admission crisis.
 
 “With the help of master plan, the division will see rise in the number of under-graduate seats, new innovative and skill-based courses,” he added.
 
 
