HYDERABAD: The `business' of   appears to be on the rise in Hyderabad, with the city police arresting 10 people, involved in the crime, over the last one month.Officials, closely following the case, say that these   are being brought into the city from places like Sircilla, Nizampet and Ibrahimpatnam.

 In one of the biggest cash seizures, the special operations team recently impounded as much as `20 lakh in fake currency , on February 25 from Rajendranagar. “The culprits aged between 22 and 35 years tried to supply photocopies of the new `2,000 and `500 note. They told their victims that they had sources within the Reserve Bank of India's Hyderabad branch and could get the notes exchanged,“ said SOT inspector E Srinivas Reddy .
 
 The culprits charged anywhere between `30,000 and `45,000 per every one lakh for conversion, police said. “Since the victims were also hard-pressed for new notes, they gave in to the demands,“ Reddy added.
 
 Confirming the rise in count of these fraudsters, deputy commissioner of police (task force) B Limba Reddy said, “Only Non-Resident Indians have been given permission till March 31to deposit old demonetised currency. Now, many scamers have also taken on the role of NRIs and tell their victims that they can deposit the money without any hassle, for a certain share.“ In the most recent case, cracked earlier this week, the police arrested one such gang from Moula Ali for supplying fake notes.
 
 “A gang operating from the area had begun copying the new notes with fake serial numbers. In December itself they had managed to fabricate close to `7 lakh in fake notes. However, they did not circulate them, until January . This is when they began circulating them,“ said a police official from the SOT, requesting anonymity .
 
 In this case, one person Ramesh who was arrested by the police in November, had used his associates to promulgate the fake currency in the market.
 
 Police officials also stated that they have been acting on tip-offs from bank officials, who notice discrepancies in the currency notes. “But majority of these fake notes are used in petrol bunks or wine shops. So only after we receive a complaint from them do we take action,“ said Srinivas Reddy.
 
