Bengaluru: IT services firm   has had a tumultuous past. Since 1998, when it was founded by Citibankers  , it has gone through several ownership changes, but through it all, it maintained its unique identity. The company was acquired by EDS in 2006. Two years later, it became part of Hewlett-Packard (HP) when the latter acquired EDS. In 2015, when   split into two, it became part of HP Enterprise. And last year, private equity giant Blackstone acquired Mphasis from   for over $1 billion. The new owner has just brought in a new CEO – Nitin Rakesh, who was previously CEO of Nasdaq-listed Syntel. Rakesh spoke exclusively to TOI soon after his appointment was announced. Excerpts:
 
 What’s Blackstone's mandate to you?
 It’s not really the mandate Blackstone gave me. It’s the mandate I have from the Mphasis board. What excited me was that the positioning of the company is fairly unique — it plays to my interests, strengths and to the market opportunity. The strong focus on business domains, sub-domain specialization — and these are big enough for us to craft a fairly large-scalable business. We are talking about market-size opportunity running into tens of billions (of dollars). I think the beauty of the model is, it’s positioned in large-scalable domains and these domains are fascinating to me as I grew up in those businesses. Even if you include the HP relationship that will soon turn into CSC, it will be a large opportunity for us. We have a big opportunity in what I call the next-gen services that includes SMAC, IoT, automation, AI, cloud and the whole suite of services.
  
 Blackstone has reset the relationship with HP, securing nearly $1 billion for over 5 years. This should give you enough headroom to mine other clients.
 There’s no free lunch, and we have to earn every dollar. The global business environment is going through a fairly significant transformation; not only do we have to deliver that $1 billion, but we have to find ways to make that $1 billion into $2 billion. I think the opportunity exists. The CSC-HP combined revenue book is so big we know they are looking at strategic partnerships. We will continue to keep our eyes on the billion, but also focus on the next phase growth.
  
 Mphasis has had a tumultuous past. May be because of that, a liftoff didn’t really happen…
 It was an extension of a large global firm. Now we have the foundation in place, a strong set of services and all the right ingredients — many of which weren’t there in the past. I credit the team that navigated the turbulence. You can’t accelerate when you have turbulence. We still have some turbulence ahead as the industry is going through a structural change, but we know that we can fire on all four engines. I think size is a great advantage for us. It gives us headroom in terms of agility and, at the same time, we are big enough to play in large deals. It will take a couple of quarters to get the strategy in place. I didn’t come with all the answers, but I came here with a perspective.
  
 You have an opportunity to mine Blackstone’s portfolio companies…
 The onus is on us to find the right way to do it. Just because we are one of the portfolio companies, it doesn’t mean we have rights to their businesses. My message to the team is: let’s give them a reason to do business with us. Obviously, the good news is we have a calling card — we have the ability to walk in and get introduced, but we have to win the business. We have to choose which companies fit the profile of clients that we want to do business with.
  
 Will banking and capital markets (BCM) and opportunities from the CSC-HP combine fuel the next phase of growth?
 I see growth in our HP relationship and in our direct core business (where the BCM and insurance segments sit). On the BCM side, we see a tailwind on the macro side looking at what’s going on in the US. The sector has become a prime growth driver for the US market. If we can leverage the tailwinds and strengthen our position in the core, expand our footprint in Europe with the right mix of next-gen services, we should be able to accelerate our growth story. I see Mphasis as a jewel hidden in the HP family.
 
 
