BENGALURU: Ramika P, a resident of Teachers' Colony in Koramangala, complains of frequent disruption to   collection in her area. Waste strewn by the roadside is a worry and street dogs wandering around eateries add to the unhygienic conditions. And the BBMP is not the only one culpable for this mess.

 The   which dispose of solid waste are equally to blame. Commercial establishments, many illegal, do not recycle and segregate their garbage. Citizen groups say this is another off-shoot of illegal commercialization of residential areas.
 
 Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike started a largescale waste segregation drive last February but officials say garbage management in mixed zoning areas has become a major challenge.
 
 “We're stricter with commercial establishments when it comes to   and disposal. As per provisions of the Karnataka Municipal Corporation Act, 2016, our assistant executive engineers and assistant engineers of wards are levying penalties on those who fail to dispose of waste. However, the number of such violators is so huge that our staff is not enough,“ said a senior official of the BBMP's   wing.
 
 N S Ramakanth of the Solid Waste Management Round Table said many commercial establishments have a nexus with garbage contractors who dump waste into storm water drains or on lake beds. “Sometimes, they pay bribes to garbage truck owners who accept mixed waste from them. As a result, residential areas face a problem as garbage collection vehicles don't go there.
 
 Irrespective of waste generated in any neighbourhood, segregation at source is the solution. Stricter monitoring should be made mandatory for commercial establishments who must dispose of waste through vendors empanelled with BBMP. If these vendors are found taking mixed waste, their membership should be cancelled,“ he added.
 
 Civic activist Pramod M said, “Initiatives by citizens groups on garbage management goes a long way. Some neighbourhoods like Malleswaram and HSR Layout have shown good results. Initiatives like compost santhe and awareness drives are done to educate citizens about solid waste management. There should be a similar initiative to encourage commercial establishments to dispose of waste responsibly,“ he added.
 
