Mediterranean diet, the famous “Healthy heart diet” emphasizes on consuming plenty of fresh fruits, vegetables, legumes and nuts. Most importantly, this   plan advises on replacing butter with healthy fats such as olive oil and canola oil. Indeed the benefits of   in terms of reducing the risk of cardiovascular diseases have been established for several decades. However, incorporating and adhering to Mediterranean diet is just one aspect that cuts down the risk of heart problems. Other than diet, there are many factors in our complex lifestyle that play a crucial role in increasing or decreasing our risk for cardiovascular diseases. Unfortunately these composite lifestyle factors have never been evaluated in depth till date. 

 A team of researchers recently conducted a study to determine the impact of the Mediterranean lifestyle on the cardiovascular risk of elderly people. The study enrolled elderly volunteers (age 65-100 years) from 21 Mediterranean islands and the rural Mani region (Peloponnesus) of Greece. The information on their dietary habits, physical activity status and sociodemographic characteristics was collected. The lifestyle parameters (sleep pattern, smoking habits, social life and educational status) and clinical profile of the study participants was also reviewed.
 
 Nearly 62.3% of the study participants had traditional risk factors that increased their risk for hypertension (high blood pressure), 22.3% had risk factors for diabetes and 47.7% had risk factors for hypercholesterolemia (high levels of cholesterol in blood). Noteworthy was the fact that individuals affected with depression and those residing in urban areas were at a greater risk of developing diabetes. On the contrary hypertension was more prevalent amongst elderly participants, people with high body mass index (an indicator of obesity) and amongst those who regularly enjoyed midday sleep. People who socialized with friends more often, were less likely to develop hypertension. As per the findings of this study, amongst all the participants, only those with depression seemed to have a higher risk of developing hypercholesterolemia.
 
 Not all are at equal risk of developing cardiovascular diseases. Presence of certain characteristics predisposes an individual towards developing cardiovascular disease. People have believed for several decades that following a Mediterranean diet effectively alleviates the risk of heart ailments. Nevertheless, recent study demonstrates that stringently following a Mediterranean diet is not enough to keep heart problems at bay. Several aspects of our lifestyle other than diet are equally important. It is ultimately the “team work” of various such inter-related lifestyle factors that lead a way towards a healthy heart.
 
 In conclusion, various lifestyle parameters such as social life, midday sleep and residential environment have an important role in determining the risk associated with cardiovascular disease in elderly. Integration of such factors in various strategies designed for preventing cardiovascular diseases is therefore essential to cut down the burden of this disease.
 
 
 
 
