HUBBALLI: IIT-Kanpur alumnus   spent a decade at   in Bengaluru designing computer parts before the entrepreneurship bug bit him. But after two years of setting up his automation solutions startup, LinkEZ Technologies, in the city, he chose to move to Hubballi, about 400km from Bengaluru.

 “Bengaluru was getting crowded and my mentor put me in touch with Deshpande Foundation, an incubator in Hubballi,“ says Shah. After spending the first two years struggling to find customers in in Bengaluru, Shah moved to the industrial town of Hubbali last year, a perfect fit for his industrial automation startup.
 
 Shah isn't the only one making the shift out of India's   to the small towns of Karnataka. Entrepreneurs are finding it cheaper to operate out of tier-2 cities such as Hubbali, Dharwad, Udupi and Mangaluru, where both operation costs and the cost of talent is lower.As competition in Bengaluru increases, these startups are finding customers in smaller towns. While Hubballi is home to a number of startups that provide services to industries, the UdupiMangaluru belt is known for android developers and companies providing IT services.
 
 Naveen Jha, CEO of Deshpande Foundation says the need to move out of cities arises mainly if the business is concentrated on smaller towns.“Founders need to be near the problems they are trying to solve. It might get difficult for them sitting in bigger cities,“ says Jha. The Deshpande Foun dation runs Sandbox Startups, an incubator in Hubballi, Karnataka's second largest city .
 
 Founders of agri-tech startup Nanopix, Sasi Dekar Krish and B Suchitra moved to Hubballi from Bengaluru seven years ago. The company produces a grading machine for the cashew industry . Krish, an IITMadras alumnus and former Wipro employee, moved to Hubballi to join Sankalp Semiconductors, and chanced upon Deshpande Foundation, which gave him the initial investment . The biggest clients of Nanopix, which has revenues of more than $4 million, are cashew manufacturers in Mangaluru and Karkala.
 
 Rohan Kulkarni, founder of Freshboxx, an online platform that delivers farm-fresh produce to individulas and restaurants, moved from Bengaluru to Hubbali in November 2015.“The Bengaluru market was saturated and filled with players that were burning cash.Hubballi is called the capital of north Karnataka, so it made sense to move,“ Kulkarni says.
 
 `Internet connectivity, talent are all you need for a startup'
 
 Working out of smaller cities comes with its own challenges, the main ones being lack of resources and expertise. “The city doesn't have an international airport. So it becomes difficult when we have to send materials somewhere,“ says Kulkarni.LinkEZ had trouble getting customers in the first two years and making them aware of automation's benefits.
 
 US Mahendar and ML Gowda, founders of Hatti Kappi, a Bengaluru-based franchise that sells filter coffee, started in Has san but moved to Bengaluru in 2004. “We had to make the move to find our market but it's different now. Entrepreneurs from small town don't need to come to Bengaluru. They have enough resources in their own city and they should set up in their hometowns,“ says Mahendar. With 46 outlets in Bengaluru, the company is planning to expand to Hubballi and Dharwad.
 
 With Infosys setting up a new campus in Hubballi this month, change seems to be coming to these cities. Kulkarni believes more entrepreneurs and investments will come to the area by next quarter.Though Kulkarni plans to launch his B2B (business-tobusiness) service in Bengaluru, he doesn't plan to shift his team out of Hubballi.
 
 Rohith Bhat, founder of app development companies Robosoft Technologies and Global Delight, and gaming company 99Games, moved from Mumbai to Udupi in the late 1990s. “Back then we didn't have VCs. So I moved to get access to bank loans. It's become easier for entrepreneurs now, but the competition has increased as well,“ says Bhat.
 
 “There are about 20 startups in Udupi, and 35 in Mangaluru.For a startup, you don't need much, just internet connectivity and talent, which is in abundance here. We are a 100% literate district and have around 20 engineering colleges, so there is a great talent pool,“ he says.
 
 While the investor community hasn't made the shift, Bhat doesn't think it's a problem. “If one wants VC money , they can just hop on a bus to Bengaluru.You don't have to start a company around them. VCs should come to the startups,“ he says.
 
