NEW DELHI: The standing committee of Inter State Council, which met after 12 years on Sunday, discussed the discretionary powers of governors in appointment of chief ministers, their assent in bills passed by state assemblies and the powers of state ministers. 

 This comes after the recent controversy over the role of governors in BJP forming governments in Manipur and Goa despite not being the single largest party.
 
 The meeting, chaired by home minister Rajnath Singh, was attended by finance minister  , Uttar Pradesh chief minister   and his Odisha, Tripura and Chhattisgarh counterparts  ,   and  , among others.
 
 Chief ministers of Rajasthan, Punjab and Andhra Pradesh, who are also members of the committee, did not attend the meeting or send their representatives.
 
 According to top government sources, there was unanimity among the CMs and central representatives that issues related to powers of governors had already been settled in the Supreme Court’s SR   judgment and the recommendations of the MM Punchhi Commission should be implemented in line with it. Source said a couple of more meetings would take place to finalise the issue.
 
 In SR Bommai vs Union of India case, the SC had said, “Wherever a doubt arises whether the council of ministers has lost the confidence of the House, the only way of testing it is on the floor of the House, except in an extraordinary situation where because of all-pervasive violence, the governor comes to the conclusion and records the same in his report that for the reasons mentioned by him, a free vote is not possible in the House.
 
 The House is the place where democracy is in action. It is not for the governor to determine the said question on his own or on his own verification.
 
 This is not a matter within his subjective satisfaction. It is an objective fact capable of being established on the floor of the House.”
 
 Speaking to reporters, Andhra Pradesh finance minister Y Ramakrishnudu, who deputised for CM N  , said, “We discussed the role of governors threadbare. Many states said a governor should be qualified, non-partisan and above politics.”
 
 He added that several states wanted governors to not have a say in politics.
 
 According to the MM Punchhi Commission’s recommendations on Centrestate relations, a governor should follow clear guidelines in the appointment of CM by sticking to “clear order of preference”.
 
 The commission recommended that a CM should be asked to prove his majority within a clear time limit before he is dismissed. The CM should prove his majority within five days to a maximum 30 days, it said.
 
 According to sources, Rajnath Singh told the meeting that the powers of governors, criteria for their selection and their impeachment should largely be left untouched.
 
