Panaji: Goa’s sprint king   has given up on competitive   and is now set to take up coaching.
 
  The 23-year-old has four records to his name, including one in Karnataka, where he spent five years at the Centre of Excellence. He could have pursued athletics and broken more records but for someone who was raised as an orphan at   in Merces and later at St Anthony’s boys home in Duler, Irfan looked at the bigger picture.
  
  “Some will certainly wonder why I am pursuing coaching at such a young age, but competing in more championships is just not financially viable anymore,” said Irfan, who donned colours for Goa-India at the 3rd Lusofonia Games in 2014.
  
  For most of his life, the sprinter did small jobs to make ends meet. In between, Dempo Group of companies gave him a boost for two years by naming him Goodwill Ambassador but once the deal came to an end, Irfan was left stranded again. Former Sports Authority of Goa (SAG) project officer and Dempo Sports Club goalkeeper   has been Irfan’s mentor for some time now and it is he who continues to back him.
  
  When Irfan needed Rs 1 lakh to pursue a two-year course at the Netaji Subhas National Institute of Sports (South centre) for a diploma course in coaching (athletics) in Bengaluru, Cardozo took the top athlete to the offices of sports minister Manohar Azgaonkar and director, Directorate of Sports and Youth Affairs, VM Prabhudesai. The talks, at least initially, were positive but Eugenio had to approach his friends, and FC Goa, for help when the government dragged its feet.
  
  FC Goa have now agreed to foot half of Irfan’s total expenses for the NIS coaching course; the rest will come from other benefactors.
  
  “Irfan is a very special case for Goa. The Sports Authority of Goa (SAG) should have worked overtime to help him attain a professional career. I worked for the SAG for 22 years and felt it was my moral duty to help him,” said Eugenio.
  
  Irfan, on his part, is determined to make this opportunity count. He took part in the selection process in Bengaluru early this month and finished a commendable fifth amongst the 65 probables. Only 20 were selected to hone their coaching skills.
  
  “It will be really great for Irfan after he completes his course. It will help him build his career and help promising athletes from Goa,” said Eugenio.
  
  Irfan has always persevered in life through hard work and dedication. He completed his graduation last year and has now set his eyes on becoming an accomplished athletics coach. For someone who has achieved success against all odds since childhood, the NIS hurdle in Bengaluru should not be difficult to surmount.
  
  
