VISAKHAPATNAM: To equip medical students with the latest technology, all MBBS students of AP Government medical colleges are being given tablets containing various departmental lectures that would be useful to them. Distribution of the tablets started in Guntur on Thursday. In the coming days, around 7,200 medical students from the various government medical colleges would receive the same. The students can retain the tablets with them even after passing out. Manufactured by Datamini, these tablets cost around Rs 9,000 per piece. 

 At a programme held in Guntur on Thursday evening, around 100 tablets were also distributed to students of Guntur Medical College, Siddhartha Medical College and SIMS Tirupati. Health minister Dr Kamineni Srinivas, principal health secretary  , director of medical education Dr Subba Rao, vice-chancellor of   Dr T Ravi Raju, registrar, principals of all government medical colleges were present. 
 
 President of   Dr  , who was present as the special guest, praised the state of AP for its many first initiatives, some of which she said were emulated by other states later. Some such initiatives included online medical entrance exam, free access to journals to students by NTR Health University, online correction of answer scripts, and distribution of tablets.
 
 The vice-chancellor of NTR Health University said students shouldn’t treat the tablets as a substitute for library and classroom teaching but as a complementary to classroom lectures.
 
 Speaking about it, Dr PV Sudhakar, principal of Andhra Medical College, said, “For 600 undergraduate students of Andhra Medical College too, indent has been placed and the tablets are expected to arrive soon and likely to be distributed by the middle of this month. Besides, the heads of all the departments and principals of the government medical colleges would also be given a tablet each so that they can oversee what the students are learning. A total of 1,250 hours of lectures have been loaded in the tablets. 
 
