KRISHNAGIRI: A 43-year-old farmer was shot dead by unidentified   on Saturday night. 

 The farmer, who was riding a motorcycle, took two rounds of firing from a country-made rifle and died on the spot. He was identified as Sesadhri from Sanamavu village near Hosur.
 
 Seshadri was shot in a similar manner a year ago, but he survived the bid on his life. He was shot dead while he was on his way to the farm. The body was found on Sunday morning, police said.
 
  “We are yet to ascertain the motive for the murder. The identity of the assailants is also not known. We have formed special teams to nab the assailants,’’ a police officer said. 
 
 Seshadri is survived by his wife Ellamma and twin sons studying in class VIII.
 
 According to the police, Sesahdri owns a farm at Upparathamandrapalli where he is also raising a herd of goats. Seshadri spends the night in the farm to guard the goats.
 
  “As usual, he left his house saying he was going to the farm. When he failed to return home the next day, the family went in search of him and found the bullet-ridden body along the road. His motorcycle was also lying at the same spot,’’ the police said.
 
 Senior police officials visited the spot. “It appears that two rounds were fired at him, one near the chest and one on the abdomen, using a crude country-made rifle,’’ said a senior police officer. 
 
 Sesadhri’s mobile phone was found at the spot, but there were no clues that the police could pick so far from the call records.
 
 Since it was an isolated area, the murder could have gone unnoticed by anyone, the police said. 
 
 In December 2015, an attempt on Seshadri’s life was made by unidentified men when he was at the farm. He had suffered bullet injuries then too, but survived, the police said. 
 
 The investigating officials are yet to make a breakthrough in that case too.
 
 The police, meanwhile, ruled out possibility of Maoists involved in the murder. 
 
 “A few farmers along   border possess country-made rifles to keep away wild animals entering their farms. So we cannot conclude extremist elements were involved just because rifle was used,’’ said a police officer.
 
 
