KOLKATA: A chink seems to have appeared in the   with the Delhi unit being at loggerheads with the Trinamool-dominated state unit over the proposed West Bengal Clinical Establishment (Registration, Regulation and Transparency) Bill 2017. Moreover, much to the embarrassment of the IMA's state chapter, some of its members from the city now plan to go public with their opposition to the bill on Friday.

 The disgruntled doctors pointed out that some of the clauses of the proposed bill was contentious and also, some others needed clarity . One of the clauses the doctors seemed to be upset about was that all private clinical establishments should cater to emergency cases. “How can an eye hospital or a maternity home handle a heart failure or road accident victim?“ said Dr  , president of IMA (south Kolkata branch), who is also a member of  . But the bill advocates claimed the Supreme Court had mandated it before.
 
 The doctors also claimed most of the medical negligence cases took place in government hospitals, but their comparatively lower bills kept those establishments out of the purview of the authorities. The counter logic was that government hospitals were already under a regulatory framework of West Bengal Medical Council.
 
 “There are certain things that needs clarity, For example who will decide which diagnostic test is necessary and which is not? We already have regulatory bodies, like  , the cri minal court and the consumer courts. Now is this is this the fourth forum?“ said Dr  , medical oncologist.
 
 Doctors also cited several apex court orders that cautioned against knee-jerk reaction against doctors. In a 2004 judgment, the SC had said, “For every mishap or death during treatment, the medical man cannot be proceeded against for punishment. Criminal prosecutions of doctors without adequate medical opinion pointing to their guilt would be doing great disservice to the community. “The next year, the SC reiterated: “So long as it can be found the procedure adopted was acceptable to medical science at that time, the medical practitioner cannot be held negligent merely because he chose to follow one procedure and not another and the result was a failure.“
 
