Surat: Ahwa, the tribal headquarter of the Dang district has worn a festive look as tens of thousands of tribal people will gather to participate in the three-day-long Dang Darbar festival organised by state government in honour of the five Dangi kings starting from March 9.

 Unlike every year, this time around the annual festival will have many attractions for tourists from across the state and neighbouring states like Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. 
 
 Sources said that the Tourism Corporation of Gujarat Limited (TGCL) has become the partner with the Dang administration, for the first time, to celebrate the festival. The TGCL has allocated funds to the administration for the development of tourism in the district. 
 
 This time, the Dang administration will be celebrating the Dang Darbar in a unique way and the tribal artists from various states including Jharkhand, Assam, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh, etc., have been invited to present their folk and other dance forms during the three-day-long event. 
 
 It is that time of the year when tens of thousands of tribal people over 300 villages in Dang district will descend on Ahwa town to eat, drink and make merry during the festival. The Darbar fair actually starts a week in advance where the tribal purchase sweets, farsan, utensils, toys, cutlery, radio, tape, TV cassettee recorders, clothes, articles of bamboo, household goods, ornaments, etc.
 
 The major attraction will be ‘Dang No Dhabkar’ and the eco fair where the tourists will come face to face with the tribal culture and protection of forest environment. 
 
 Gujarat governor O P Kohli will inaugurate Dang Darbar at Ahwa on Thursday amid the presence of senior bureaucrats and politicians from the region. 
 
 Kohli will give away cheques of political pension to five kings of Gadhavi, Pimpri, Amla-Linga, Vasurana and Daher during the event.
 
 Dang Darbar began 150 years ago by the Britishers in honour of the five Dangi kings. The annual fair continued even after independence, though in 1954 the previleges of the kings and naiks were canclled and instead hereditary political pension was granted to them.
 
 District collector of Dang, M J Thakkar said special accommodation facilities have been created for the tourists visiting in Dang for three days. 
 
 “Dang Dabar has become popular across Gujarat and neighbouring states as well. The three-day event will witness many tourists, most of them are even visiting from foreign countries,” said Thakkar.
 
 
