Cleared/Ali

 Coimbatore: Industry associations in the city have welcomed the Union government’s budget presented by finance minister Arun Jaitley in Parliament on Wednesday, as tax rates for MSMEs and individuals are reduced. But they also expressed some concerns that need to be addressed. 
 
 Former president of the Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry D Balasundaram said, “Overall, it is a satisfactory budget. We are happy that the central government has reduced the corporate tax for MSMEs from 30% to 25%. We also appreciate the move to reduce the income tax on individuals in Rs 2.5 lakh to Rs 5 lakh bracket to 5% from 10%.” 
 
 The Southern India Engineering Manufacturers’ Association (SIEMA) welcomed the back-up action of the government by providing railway lines, roads, 100% rural electrification and reduced lending rates for housing. “The international skill development initiatives can provide availability of skilled labour force and improve global competitiveness. The presumptive income tax reduction linked with turnover will support micro enterprises for tax compliance,” president of the association K K Rajan said.
 
 SIEMA was not happy with the tax breather for MSMEs. “Though reduction in corporate tax rate will bring some relief, it is disappointing that there are no incentives for SMEs for investments and for plant expansion and machinery,” Rajan said.
 
 According to the Confederation of Indian Industries, the budget was positive and reformative. “Measures in the areas of affordable housing, agriculture, rural economy and infrastructure will further open up avenues for investment and new livelihoods. It is heartening to note that the sectors of education, skill development, healthcare as well as women have been accorded special priority,” said the chairperson of CII Coimbatore zone, Nethra J S Kumar. 
 
 Tiruppur Exporters’ Association president Raja M Shanmugham appreciated the allocation of Rs 2,200crore to skill labour. He said, “This would be beneficial to the Tirupur cluster as it will help the textile industry address the problem of labour shortage and improve industry’s growth.”
 
 Regional chairman of Federation of Indian Exporters’ Association A Sakthivel said the introduction of Trade Infrastructure Export Scheme with budget allocation of Rs 3.96lakh crore will help the Indian exporters to become globally competitive. “Today, exporters are forced to incur additional expenditure of more than 7% of their exports due to poor infrastructure,” he said. 
 
 The finance minister announced 100 Indian International Centres. President of Coimbatore SIDCO Industrial Estate Manufacturers Association (COSEIMA) M V Loganathan said that their industrial estate should be allocated one such centre covering all trades. 
 
 
