INDORE: After hosting a wide range of national and international sports events, the city is expected to host World Kayaking Championship in 2020 or Asian Championship in 2021. 

 Bilawali lake that was developed last year as a water sports hub successfully hosted National Kayaking, Canoeing sprint championship in December 2016. 
 
 Impressed with the potential here, a team of officials of International Canoe Federation were in the city for a recce of the water sports facilities at Bilawali on Thursday. 
 
  “We are very impressed with the rapid development of water sports here and in other parts of MP. We are keen on organizing a world championship here soon,” said vice president of International canoe federation,  . 
 
 The team of officials consisting of Thomas Konietzko, Whay Hugo Lu, general secretary of Asian Canoe Federation and P Narita president of Asian association along with some other officials.
 
 After having a look at city’s water sports facilities, the team reached Maheshwar in the evening to see the international standard slalom range that has been developed recently. 
 
 “We see a lot of potential in MP and the facilities for water sports are good here. I was surprised to see the well maintained water sports ranges here. We are doing a recce about the facilities for organizing a world class event along with the help that we can provide for developing water sports,” added Thomas. 
 
 Officials confirmed that   will surely be hosting 2020 World Dragon Boating Championship. 
 
 “The kind of wide ranges we saw here, we are quite sure about organizing 2020 dragon boat racing championship here in MP. The place will be decided after our visit,” said Wahy Hugo Lu. 
 
 Before reaching Indore, the team had also visited Bhind and   to look at water sports facilities there. 
 
 Officials looked at sprint facilities, arrangement for spectators, officials, water sports ranges and other essential facilities for organizing an international level tournament. 
 
 They also seemed positive about the future of water sports in India as the national association is focusing on junior players to develop them as international level medalists in due course of time. 
 
 International officials were here after Asian association president P Narita inspected the water sports facilities and reported back to the officials. The team will now head to Delhi to meet the sports secretary and discuss about the upcoming events. 
 
