The second and the concluding day of  , the annual theatre festival by city theatre group   was no less entertaining and engaging than the first day. Packed with social messages, which were delivered brilliantly by the actors, the audience rediscovered the magic of theatre at  . 
The evening began with a street play,  , staged outside the auditorium. A series of four inspiring tales of women and their entrepreneurial spirit touched over topics like child marriage, domestic violence, human trafficking and how it affects the lives of women. The plays that had the crowd rooted to their positions for 45 minutes enacted in Telugu also included puppetry and mime. 
 Following a small break, the crowd was invited into the auditorium where Nishumbita staged the second play  , based on HK Madhav’s play of the same name that narrates the plight of the children today. Enacted by a group of children, the play depicts the same ol’ story — how the children yield to the whims and fancies of over-ambitious parents, how they are weighed down by the burdens of the education system, how they are mocked at by unsatisfied parents and relatives and how they are drained physically, psychologically as well as intellectually at the end. Though the script could have been executed better, it was brilliant acting by the child artistes that kept the audience rooted for an hour. The faint cry for help grew to a crescendo at the end of the play as they all cried out in unison, “Aur bardash nhi hota, bas kijiye. Humein bachao. Hum jeena chahte hai, humein jeene dijiye.” The audience burst into a thundering applause, overwhelmed by the performance.
 But the end was to be more emphatic with a bold play exploring the world of transgenders in detail. Scripted in Hyderabadi Hindi, the play  , revolved around an Akhara of eunuchs, led by Shanno Naik, an aggressive eunuch with desires to gain complete control over her chelans. In the midst of the conflict over power, a boy named Bansi who unable to fit in his family and society becomes a chelan of Laccho Naik, one of the transgenders. The story took a turn as Bansi went through the ritualistic nirwaan, to become Mona, but falls prey of Laccho’s greed who marries him off to a seth for money. The play traces the problems that arise following the events and how Mona establishes herself in a respectable profession and lead a normal life like any other human being. The play ended with a plea to make place for the trangenders in society. The three-act play of   was brilliantly conceptualised, the realistic performances by the actors were laudable. The songs sung by the artistes further enhanced the mood of the play and made the performance even more engaging and credible.
 
