PATNA: Altogether 8,319 boys and girls took the entrance test for admission to BEd course of   ( ) on Saturday.

 PU examination controller R K Mandal claimed the test on Saturday was held in a fair and peaceful manner at 11 examination centres, including Patna College, Patna Science College, Patna Law College, B N College, Vanijya Mahavidyalay, Magadh Mahila College, Patna Women’s College, Nalanda Open University, B D Public School, Baldwin Academy and Mount Carmel High School from 2pm to 4pm. 
 
 No candidate was allowed to enter the examination hall with cellphone and the university had arranged for strict invigilation at all the centres. Observers were also deputed at each centre to monitor the conduct of test, Mandal said.
 
 Following the instructions of NCTE and the new guidelines received from the chancellor’s secretariat, the duration of BEd course has been increased to two years in place of one year. 
 
 The number of BEd seats in PU is 300 (100 each at Patna Training College, Women’s Training College and Patna Women’s College).
 
 BBA entrance test: Results of entrance test held for admission to the three-year honours course in Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) at Patna College have been announced on the college website and notice board. 
 
 Interactive session: PU Women’s Studies department students and faculty members on Saturday interacted with budding fiction writer Priyanka Om on gender issues and her recent novel ‘Wo Ajeeb Ladki’ at a function held at Darbhanga House. Department head Padmalata Thakur welcomed the guests. PU sociology department head Raghunandan Sharma presided.
 
 Legal info camp: Dr G L Dutta DAV Public School at Transport Nagar organised a legal awareness camp on the school campus on Saturday. The event was also a session to counsel students about careers in judiciary. 
 
 Patna district and sessions judge (DJ) Krishnakant Tripathi was the chief guest while ADJ Sharvajeet and additional CJM (Patna City) Khyati Singh were the guests of honours. School principal H K Singh welcomed the guests. 
 
 At the interactive session,   of Class XI asked about paperless work in the courts whereas Sneha of Class X sought to know how justice could be brought to the reach of deprived sections of the society. 
 
 Class XII toppers feted: Ten top scorers from Science and Commerce streams of St Karen’s Secondary School were felicitated at a function in the school on Saturday.
 
 The toppers were given medals and certificates by school director D P Galstaun. The honoured students included Alok Kumar, Shivanshi Suman, Harsh, Rakshita Kumari, Ayush Anand, Ayushi Manu, Dipti Kumari, Mansi Verma, Shivangi and Anisha Priya. They expressed gratitude to the teachers, parents and school management for helping them come out with flying colours in the exam.
 
 Galstaun congratulated the students. School principal   also motivated the students to study hard and make their school and parents proud. School’s intermediate incharge P P Singh proposed a vote of thanks.
 
 BSEB scrutiny: Over one lakh students have applied for scrutiny of different subject papers after they found the scores of their Class X exam unsatisfactory. 
 
 Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB)’s chairman Anand Kishor said the applications were received online and offline. The students applied offline at the BSEB’s nine regional centres at Patna, Gaya, Bhagalpur, Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur, Purnia, Chappra, Munger and Saharsa.
 
