NEW DELHI: They are the first ones to reach the ground and the last to leave, putting in the longest hours on the field. And yet, the Indian curators and groundsmen, who are responsible for preparing the 22-yard pitches and the outfield for the domestic and international matches, are paid a pittance. According to sources, the five zonal curators of Indian board ( ) are paid around Rs 50,000 per month and have not been given a hike in 10 years.

 Even the 10% tax deduction from their salaries isn't paid by the board. The second tier of the co-opted five-member pitch committee is paid Rs 35,000 each per month while none of the state bodies pay their curators beyond Rs 50,000 per month. They are also entitled to Rs 3,500 per day as dearness allowance when they travel outside.
 
 While comparing this with other stake holders in the game, TOI found out that 10 years ago Indian cricketers used to make more than Rs 1.5 crore from BCCI while the   cricketers made around Rs 12 lakh per year. The umpires took home Rs 4 to 5 lakh per annum. Today, their incomes have increased three times but the curators are still waiting for a hike.
 
 When TOI spoke to a top BCCI official, he said the BCCI curators are paid for 'supervising' the zonal pitches and they are also entitled to make extra money through freelancing. "There are also some other employees who work for BCCI and are paid on the basis of their supervision work," the official said while adding that paying the curators across Indian stadia is the responsibility of state associations.
 
 What the official did not mention is that curators' job requires long hours in the game besides off-season renovation, attending workshops, putting covers on the pitch and making arrangements for nets facilities. Sources said the condition of the groundsmen is as bad than that of unskilled labour. It is estimated that over 1,000 groundsmen -along with around 62 curators -who are employed by state units are paid around Rs 8,000 to Rs 15,000 per month. Each venue has around eight to 20 groundsmen who work with the head curators round the clock.
 
 The board may have initiated an award of Rs 10 lakh for the best Ranji Trophy pitch and Rs 25 lakh for the best   wicket, but a majority of the state associations haven't given a share of this reward to the concerned curators or groundsmen. So, when the top cricketers today make around Rs 5 crore from BCCI, Ranji Trophy players earn Rs 35 lakh and more from IPL contracts and the match officials make Rs 40 lakh per annum, there is no move to revise the payment structure of curators and groundsmen. It was learnt that former BCCI president   had floated a proposal to improve the package of the curators and groundsmen.
 
 
 
 
 Though there was talk about handing over contracts and one-time benefit funds to curators, none of the proposals have come through. Even the umpires are waiting for their one-time benefit funds. Of the 110 Indian umpires, only the top 15 make around Rs 40 lakh by officiating in IPL matches, earning Rs 2.75 to Rs 3 lakh per IPL game. 
 
