PUNE: The   building permission   started by the Pune Municipal Corporation ( ) is yet to gather steam.

 The number of applications under the scheme has gone down since its introduction three years back.
 
 The PMC launched the fast-track building   system in November 2014 with an aim to clear proposals within 24 hours.
 
 The scheme had received 46 applications in the first five months. In 2015-16, the number of applications went up to 99, but received only 57 proposals for fast-track approval in 2016-17.
 
 The scheme aims to make the process of getting permission to build houses hassle-free by cutting down on the number of visits to PMC offices and the time taken to clear the proposals. Officials said the success of the scheme can also bring down the number of illegal constructions.
 
 The PMC official said that on an average, 4,500   permissions are granted every year in PMC limits. The administration generates around Rs 600 crore per year by giving these permissions.
 
 “The lull in the real estate scenario has had a direct bearing on the number of proposals received for permissions. It has also adversely affected performance of the fast-track system,” Prashant Waghmare, city engineer of PMC, told TOI.
 
 He said that the regular permission system of PMC was working effectively. People get permissions quickly. So many people use the system rather than the fast-track as there is hardly any time lapse, he said.
 
 Developers on the other hand observed that the limited scope of the scheme has led to the slowdown.
 
 "Only small projects and single buildings receive approval under the scheme. If multi-apartment projects are allowed to apply, it can boost the performance of the scheme," said Shrikant Paranjape, chairman of CREDAI Pune chapter.
 
 The civic administration had introduced a similar scheme in 2003 but that failed. Of the 1,200 city-based architects dealing with the civic building permission department, only around 100 applied for empanelment.
 
 Architects are required to register before submitting proposals. A special committee has been appointed to look into the proposals. Once a proposal reaches the administration, it will be cleared in one working day.
 
