NAGPUR: The   managed to reunite 50 couples during the   drive held on Saturday. A total of 115 matters in pendency pertaining to   had been scheduled for the day, of which 59 cases came before the court.

 The reunited couples were felicitated by the officials of the family court in special programme organized by principal judge Iqbal Bohari, registrar Sunil Katekar, manager Rasika Kasture and superintendent  .
 
 “Couples, who have reunited today, have set an example for the society and have shown that fighting on meaningless topics is unnecessary,” said Katekar. “Some cases of domestic violence, too, were settled and husbands, who allegedly assaulted their spouses, accepted their mistakes and agreed to live in peace with each other,” he added.
 
 Harish and Bhagyashree (surname not disclosed) were one such couple who sought relief at the court after the wife filed a custody petition for their four-year-old son. Harish said his wife and mother used to quarrel because of which Bhagyashree left the matrimonial home for a brief period of time.
 
 “After a court notice was sent to me, I realized that it’s worthless to fight over small issues. Fortunately, after the counselling here, many simple things became clear to both of us, thanks to the mediators,” said Harish.
 
 Many of the couples said understanding between them has deepened after counselling in the court and they are confident of dealing issues with issues as a unit.
 
 Adv Sharmila Charalwar was one of the members in the four panels constituted for mediation and counselling. She said, “The cases which were scheduled for today had maximum chances of being settled successfully. There were only a few cases which could not be settled.”
 
 Social worker Priya Jadhav, also a panel member, was attending her fourth lok adalat drive in the court. She said, “I cannot stress enough on the importance of mediation and counselling in matrimonial disputes. People come to realize their mistake they have made and work on them.”
 
