CHANDIGARH: Apparently miffed over the   and   in teaching institutions in Haryana instead of regular appointments, the Punjab and Haryana high court has held that such appointments are like ‘disease’ subjecting the academia to disrepute. 

 HC passed these orders while issuing certain guidelines regarding the remuneration and working conditions of guest faculty working in various universities and colleges of Haryana. 
 
 In its detailed orders, HC has clarified that those working as ‘guest faculty’ and ‘resource persons’ in university/colleges have no right to claim equal pay for equal work, as they are paid honourarium per lecture as per  . Such appointees would also not be entitled to remuneration during the vacation period.
 
 The court held that they would be entitled of honourarium on a lecture basis. Such women employees shall be entitled to maternity benefits in terms of statutory rules, clarified the court.
 
 The HC, however, held that those appointed as assistant professor on ad hoc/temporary basis or on contract awaiting regular recruitment and employment co-terminus with availability of regular hands are entitled to basic minimum pay scale (without allowances) provided by UGC. Such appointees cannot be replaced by other temporary staff and shall be replaced by a regular employee only. They would also be entitled to salary for the vacation period.
 
 The high court has also advised the universities and colleges to scrap these arrangements as soon as practicable and make regular appointments in the cadre posts without delay.
 
 Justice   passed these orders on a bunch of petitions filed by several persons working as assistant professors/guest faculty and resources persons in various universities/institutions of the state for grant of minimum of the pay scale of the posts by applying principle of ‘equal pay for equal work’.
 
 The petitioners had sought directions to the alleged malpractice in the universities/colleges which relieve them before the vacations and keeps them on tenterhooks that they might not be called again.
 
 They had pleaded to allow them to continue on their respective posts till regular appointments are made and prayed to grant them the minimum of the pay scale and grade pay prescribed for the regular employees including allowances attached to the posts occupied by regular faculty or in accordance with the UGC norms. Directions for maternity leave and salary during the vacation period were also sought by the petitioners.
 
