Apart from   who is seen hosting the show, the channel has roped in funny man   who plays in ‘Anna ka Chaukanna’.
 
  
 
  
 
  
  In a candid interview below, the actor talks about his new role and working with the ‘Real Steel’ of Bollywood, Suniel Shetty.
  
  
  1. You will be seen as Anna ka Chaukanna in &TV’s India’s Asli Champion…Hai Dum. Can you tell us more about your role in the show?
  
  Firstly, the term ‘Anna ka Chaukana’ is a hit name, it’s like a jodi. Also it’s a very popular dialogue of Suniel Sir. Whenever I enter as Anna ka Chaukana, I bring along a twist but in a funny way. Since the show involves many gruelling tasks which the contestants shoot in the sweltering heat, someone has to lighten the mood and that’s where I come in. I am sure, the fun banter between me and the contestants and Suniel Sir will make the viewers roll on the floor laughing.
  
  2. What are the different looks will we see you don on the show?
  
  My look in the show is very loud. Right from floral prints and neon colors to mismatched footwear, viewers will instantly have a smile on their face when they see me on screen. Also we have experimented with various get-ups, from a Chinese guy and the Dabangg character to Gabbar Singh and Ajay Devgan, we have done it all.
  
  3. How is it working with Suniel Shetty?
  
  Back in my hometown in U.P., almost 15 - 17 years ago, we used to watch Suniel Sir’s movies like Mohra, Aghaaz, Border and now to share screen space with him is a once in a lifetime opportunity for me. During one of the episodes, I mimicked Suniel Sir as well. On the day of the shoot, I was rehearsing my lines in my vanity van but when I came out and saw him, I got nervous. He then came up to me and showed me few postures and told me how to get the act right. It speaks volumes about how humble he is as a human being.
  
  4. How was the experience shooting in Goa?
  
  This is my first time in Goa and I have been here for almost a month now. We have shot so extensively that I know every nook and corner of the place now. Though it is disheartening that I am in such a romantic place alone, but then the show is all about romanch and not romance.
  
  5. Tell us something about your interaction with the contestants?
  
  Personally, I gel very well with the contestants but my character Anna ka Chaukanna has a thing for Mumbai based contestant Swati Chauhan. He considers her as his Paro and has fallen head over heels for her. Their love story will surely have the audience in splits.
  
  6. Tell us a little about your future plans
  
  After I wrap this up, I will start with another dance show. Post that I will be traveling to London to host a Bhojpuri award show. Life is good.
