LUDHIANA: City industrialists will demand from Captain  , who is all set to take oath as the new chief minister along with more than six cabinet colleagues on Thursday, to give portfolio of industries minister to an elected representative from the city.

 Representatives of various industries’ bodies said the city has been ignored in the cabinet and though some elected representatives were made ministers during the Congress rule earlier, they were given insignificant portfolios. 
 
 President of knitwear and fabrics’ cluster Bhushan Abbi said, “Once Captain Amarinder Singh assumes office, we will meet him and put forward our demand. We have prominent and experienced MLAs from the city, who are deserving. I don’t think our request will go unheard.”
 
 During 2012-2017 Akali rule, MLA from Sahnewal Sharanjit Singh Dhillon was PWD and irrigation minister and during 2007-12, Hira Singh Gabria was minister of jails. During the Congress government in 2002-07, Rakesh Pandey was printing and stationery minister.
 
 “Ludhiana has always been ignored in the past. There have been instances where winning MLAs from here were made ministers, but were given insignificant portfolios. The new government should live up to our expectations, respect verdict of Ludhiana and give industries minister from the city,” said Narinder Bhamra, president of Fasteners’ Manufacturers’ Association of India.
 
 Kulwant Singh, president of Chamber of Industrial and Trading Entrepreneurs, said, “It will be a blessing for the city’s units if the industries minister is chosen from here as not only will he be accessible, but will also be able to understand our problems. It is unfortunate that in spite of being the biggest industrial hub of Punjab and north India, a city representative was never given industries portfolio. Karam Singh Gill, who won from Samrala constituency in 1992, was the minister of state for industry and commerce in Beant Singh government at that time. After that there has been no such instance.”
 
 The city businesspersons are in a jubilant mood ever since the Congress won, as they feel formation of government by a single party is in the interest of the state and industry as well. 
 
 Industrial facts 
 
 According to the recent figures provided by district industries centre (DIC), Ludhiana, there are 46,144 registered industrial units in the city. Industry sources said the number of unregistered units was almost twice that of the registered ones. The major industries in the district include those of textiles, garments, cycle, sewing machines and auto parts.
 
 Strong Congmen from city
 
 Majority of the Congress MLAs who were given ticket from Ludhiana have a business background. Some of the prominent ones are: 
 
 * Surinder Dawar, 65, from dyeing and hosiery business. He has been three-time MLA, party’s district president for 12 years and has also remained chief parliamentary secretary. 
 
 * Rakesh Pandey, 62, from engineering industry. He has been a six-time MLA and was minister of science and technology, IT and energy development.
 
 * Bharat Bhushan Ashu, 46, from dairy business. He has been two-time MLA and three-time councillor. 
 
