LUCKNOW: The   parties, which are boycotting the remaining sittings of the budget session accusing chief minister   of using unparliamentary language in his speech, would be sending the audio and video CDs of Yogi's   address to the President, the PM, and Lok Sabha Speaker for action against him. 

 Leader of Opposition Ram Govind Chaudhary told TOI that the CM should apologise to the entire House, mainly the Opposition, for threatening to send them to jail, otherwise the Opposition would continue to boycott the House till the end of the present session.
 
 "Is it the behaviour of the Leader of the House, who despite being a five-time MP, has failed to learn the parliamentary behaviour, language and traditions, " asked Chaudhary. "Majority of the SP leaders have started their political career from student politics and have been in jail for social causes and fighting against the communal and fascist forces. They would not be scared of the CM's jail threats," he added. "I have sought audio and video CDs of the speeches of the CM to be sent to the President, the PM and the Lok Sabha Speaker to tell them how Yogi was indulging in an unparliamentary behaviour," Chaudhary said.
 
 Chaudhary also raised the controversy over the recovery of alleged explosives inside the   saying the two laboratories have confirmed that the recovered powder was not an explosive, but the false alarm by the ruling party was to divert attention of the state from its failure in just 100 days.
 
 The stand-off between the ruling   and the SP-led Opposition has affected normal functioning of the Assembly where budget session has been on since July 11. The Opposition has given a boycott call for the alleged "misbehaviour of the CM while concluding his budget speech on July 19.
 
 Chaudhary said the recordings show that Yogi never addressed to the chair in his speech, which is a parliamentary norm. He was directly addressing the Opposition with threats and warning, which would not be tolerated, he added.
 
