LUDHIANA: With less than a month to go for state elections, around   have deposited their ammunition with police and arms dealers in Ludhiana. Slow deposition of   in view of the spurt in firing incidents in the city over the past year.

 Inspector Ranjit Singh, who monitors records of arms surrendered with election wing inspector Amarjeet Singh said, “Of around 16,400 arms licenses in the Ludhiana commissionerate, around 3,900 arms holders surrendered their weapons ahead of elections. The process of deposition of weapons with police stations and arms dealers started a few days ago. The number is expected to rise fast”.
 
 But not all of the 16,400 weapons license holders are required to deposit their weapons. Around 2,000 weapons with banks and security agencies won’t be deposited.
 
 Meanwhile, senior police officers hope people deposit their weapons soon.
 
 “Although a number of weapon holders who need to deposit weapons have done so, hopefully, the remaining will do it soon. I request them to deposit their weapons without delay and I am monitoring things. We have already made a database of weapon holders in Ludhiana. Police stations have been asked to take necessary steps to ensure that weapons are deposited properly”, said Ludhiana police commissioner Jatinder Singh Aulakh.
 
 Meanwhile, gun house owners said while not many weapons have been deposited, things are likely to pick up in the next few days.
 
 “Till now, only 10% of weapon holders have deposited weapons with us. But since the police made a database of weapon owners, the process of deposition of weapons is likely to pick up in the next few days”, said Kumar Ravinder, a gun house owner at Brindaban road.
 
 Ravinder receives 200 to 250 weapons for deposition from private persons. He said weapons deposited by owners include pistols, revolvers, carbines, rifles and barrel guns.
 
 Meanwhile, social activists are worried about the slow pace of deposition. “The   should issue strict instructions to officers concerned to get weapons deposited without delay. Normally, many of those with these licensed weapons are seen actively involved in  . So it becomes very dangerous and people feel scared”, said Ravi Sharma, a social and RTI activist.
 
