JAIPUR: Shortage of doctors,  , corruption, frequent strikes by doctors and lack of research work were some of the key issues which were raised by the MLAs in the state assembly on demand of grants in health sector on Friday.

 Former minister of state for health, Rajkumar Sharma alleged corruption in   (RUHS). He said, “The vice-chancellor in RUHS was appointed by the government even though he was involved in corruption. The government bent rules for his appointment.”
 
 Besides, Congress MLA from Sapotra, Ramesh said, “Nursing college principal in Jaipur was appointed even though he is quite junior. He used unfair means to reach the post.”
 
 Moreover, he also alleged that the tobacco control wing had seized cigarettes of two companies (worth more that Rs 100 crore) that did not have pictorial warning as per the norms. “Adhikari maal zabt karte aur phir chhod diya jata hai (officers seize the goods but later released),” he said naming a person to whom the cigarette company belongs. But, the opposition protested against using the name of an individual in the assembly. The MLA from Sapotra demanded investigation into the matter.
 
 BJP’s MLA Narpat Singh Rajvi raised the issue of adulteration in food items. “Why is no such strict punishment for those involved in adulteration. In other countries, there is a capital punishment for adulteration but we do not have such punishment here.”
 
 The MLAs also pointed out the fall in standards of research work in Sawai Man Singh Medical College and other government medical colleges in the state. “We are leading in missile technology but in medical research we are lagging behind,” he said while showing anger on frequent strikes by doctors in medical colleges. “Recently, medical teachers went on strike protesting against a government order,” Prahlad Gunjal, MLA from Kota North said.
 
 Brijendra Ola, MLA from Jhunjhunu said, “There were times when leaders like late Bhairon Singh Shekhwat and other such leaders went to SMS hospital for treatment. But, now those who have money go to private hospitals for treatment.” He said that now posts of doctors are lying vacant, which is affecting healthcare services.
 
 The MLAs demanded that Ayurveda should be given a boost. Some of the MLAs referred to religious books to advocate use of Ayurveda in treatment. Moreover, some of the MLAs praised  , which provides free treatment to underprivileged patients for listed diseases. MLAs demanded that orthopedic implants should also be covered under Bhamashah scheme.
 
 MLA from Tonk, Ajit Singh emphasized on the need for implementation of clinical establishment Act, which was passed by the assembly in 2011. He said, “The private hospitals are charging hefty for treatment. The fees of doctors and cost of treatment in private hospitals should be fixed. A diagnostic centre is taking Rs 2500 for MRI another hospital is taking Rs 5000, why is there such a difference in MRI rates.”
 
 MLA from Reodar, Joga Ram said, “From my area, 50 vehicles carrying patients go to Gujarat for treatment as there is a shortage of doctors.” He also pointed out that there should be an expert doctor for treatment of silicosis in his area as stone sculpture is one of the main occupations in the area.
 
