KOLKATA: The city woke up to a grey sky on Mahalaya and a steady drizzle followed for the rest of the day. While the rain-soaked beginning to the festive period has raised an alarm over the weather playing spoilsport during the Puja, the Met office on Tuesday predicted more ‘light to moderate showers’ over the next 24 hours. 

 The rain could continue on Thursday when India play Australia at the Eden Gardens, but the showers were unlikely to be strong enough to stop the match, said weathermen. Kolkata received 17.3 mm rain on Tuesday.
 
 At Kumartuli, the showers left both artisans and Puja organizers — many of whom transport the idols to pandals on Mahalaya — worried. But the incessant drizzle failed to dampen the Mahalaya spirit at the artisans’ hub. The artists rushed to give finishing touches to the idols to meet the deadline. Organisers waited patiently for the idols completion of their pratimas before they neatly wrapped them in plastic sheets to protect from the rain and mount them on lorries. 
 
 “Almost 30% of the idols have been delivered. But the major rush starts from Mahalaya. The rain has caused some problems but we are sure to meet our deadlines,” said Sudarshan Pal, who was busy painting the eyes of a Durga idol at his workshop. 
 
 The rain did not cause delay in the delivery of the idols but the slush it caused in the narrow lanes did pose difficulty in carrying the idols. “To protect it from the rain, we wrapped the idol in a plastic sheet. But the roads are too slippery for us to bring them out of the workshop and put them on the vehicles,” said Tapan Ghosh, another artist.
 
 Several trucks and small goods vehicles queued on Rabindra Sarani waiting for their turn to enter Kumartuli to transport the idols. “We have been waiting since 11am for our turn but there is such huge rush today that it seems we may have to wait a little longer. We pray it does not rain more,” said Madhusudan Banerjee, the general secretary of a puja committee in south Kolkata. 
 
 The rain on Tuesday was triggered by a cyclonic circulation in the   that turned into a low pressure. It is now threatening to move closer to the western districts of Purulia, Bankura and  . “If it does move, then Gangetic   will receive lighter showers and the western parts of the state will be lashed by heavy rain. But the rain will continue in south Bengal on Wednesday,” said GK Das director,   (RMC).
 
 The weather could turn dry from the second half of Thursday, he added. “Depending on how the low pressure acts, the weather could change,” Das said.
 
