LUCKNOW: In a first of its kind instance, BJP’s election committee list released a couple of days shows more weightage given to deserters than  .

 What surprised most BJP workers was the absence of three prominent UP BJP leaders including Union ministers Dr Mahesh Sharma and Santosh Gangwar and Gorakhpur MP Yogi Adityanath in the committee and prominent presence of three turncoats including former Leader of Opposition and then senior BSP leader Swami Prasad Maurya, former UP Cong chief Rita Bahuguna Joshi and former Rajya Sabha member from BSP Brajesh Pathak. This is despite the list getting amended twice.
 
 Adityanath had been in the list of campaigners in Lok Sabha as well as the last Vidhan Sabha elections as also during by-elections. Gangwar, has been the party’s Lok Sabha MP from 1989 till 2009 when he was defeated by a very narrow margin by Congress candidate Praveen Singh Aron.
 
 Union minister of tourism Dr Mahesh Sharma is not in the list that includes names of Union home minister Rajnath Singh, Union minister for micro, small and medium enterprises Kalraj Misra and Union minister Uma Bharti. The name of Bharti was added on the second day after the list was amended. 
 
 A senior BJP leader said about the significance of the election committee that it is there in every state unit of the BJP and scrutinises names of aspiring candidates. Detailing about who all make it to the panel, the BJP leader said it includes all former state BJP chiefs, morcha chiefs and members of core committee. UP BJP general secretaries Swatantra Deo Singh and Salil Bishnoi also have found place in the panel, which includes UP in charge Om Mathur, national vice-president and Lucknow Mayor Dr Dinesh Sharma, BJP secretary Dr Mahendra Singh and national general secretary Arun Singh.
 
 Joshi, Maurya and Pathak were included in the list under special circumstances, said a party spokesperson. Meanwhile, supporters of Gangwar, Adityanath and Dr Mahesh Sharma have each been projecting the leaders on social media as CM face of the campaign. 
 
 
