Chandigarh: Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights (CCPCR) inspected Stepping Stone School, Sector 37 D and 38 D, Chandigarh to check the provisions in place for the safety of the students.

 In both the schools, it was found that the toilet cleaners were kept on the floor making it accessible to children, following which the principals of the   were advised to ensure that the cleaning material is kept away from the reach of students.
 
 The principals were further advised to fix complaint boxes for students and to check them on a daily basis and ear mark separate washrooms for the students of junior and senior wing.
 
 It was observed that some students’ issues were ignored which should have been addressed for psychological and emotional well being of the students. It was advised that counselling sessions should be conducted for the students and the school staff.
 
 School buses were also checked by the Chandigarh Traffic Police and drivers who were not in their uniforms were challaned. Technical aspects of the buses will be checked by the State Transport Authority, U T Chandigarh, said chairperson CCPCR Harjinder Kaur. She informed that though the furniture was found to be in good condition, the school principal was advised to make them round-edged to ensure no accident takes place.
 
 It was also noted that the schools had put functional CCTV cameras in all sensitive areas. Principal and the administrative office maintained a check on all CCTV footage. The schools were found clean. 
 
 Chairperson of the commission was accompanied by Law Officer, CCPCR Kartar Singh, RTE Consultant, CCPCR Chanchal Singh, and Senior Assistant, CCPCR Arvind Dhawan, along with the Chandigarh traffic police officials.
 
 Chandigarh: Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights inspected Stepping Stone School, Sector 37 D and 38 D, Chandigarh to inspect the provisions in place for the safety of children.
 
 In both the schools, it was found that the toilet cleaners were kept on the floor making it accessible to children. The principal of the school was thus advised that the cleaning material should be kept out of reach of the students.
 
 Principal of the school was advised to fix complaint boxes for students and to check them on daily basis and ear mark separate washroom for the students of junior and senior wing.
 
 It was observed that some of the students issues were ignored which were required to be addressed for their proper psychological and emotional development. It was advised to have the counseling sessions of the students and the school staff.
 
 School buses were also checked by the Chandigarh Traffic Police and drivers without uniform were challaned. Technical aspects of the buses will be checked by the State Transport Authority, U.T. Chandigarh, said Harjinder Kaur, chairperson CCPCR.
 
 She informed that the furniture was found to be in good condition however, the school principal was advised to make the furniture in a way that Table edges are round and harmless.
 
 It was also found during   that the schools have put the CCTV Cameras in place which were found functional. The control of all CCTV cameras was with Principal/ administration Office. All the Sensitive areas are covered by CCTV cameras. Cleanliness in the school found satisfactory.
 
 Chairperson of the commission was accompanied by Kartar Singh, Law Officer, CCPCR, Chanchal Singh, RTE Consultant, CCPCR and Arvind Dhawan, Senior Assistant, CCPCR along with the Chandigarh Traffic Police Officials.
 
 
