NEW DELHI: The   merit list, being decided after the final trials, is to be released on Saturday and registration to colleges and courses scheduled to start on Tuesday. 

 The   to the colleges under the extra-curricular activity (ECA) quota is not centralised and a candidate will have to register himself individually with a college before the release of each admission list until he finds the college and course of his liking. A student may have to register himself five times as colleges will release five ECA admission lists. An applicant will have to register himself at the colleges where his name appears in the merit list. 
 
 A candidate is expected to bring the academic documents for computation of the best of four to decide eligibility. There is no need to bring ECA certificates as these have already been verified by the ECA panel. “The registration and verification processes have been given two-three days in each session, so that students have ample time to cover as many colleges as possible”, said Shalini, the head of ECA admissions at  .
 
 Amrita Bajaj, deputy dean of students welfare, suggested that applicants go to colleges offering courses in percentages closest to their best of four to avoid any hassle. 
 
 The admissions will start on the basis of the fourth cutoff list, though some colleges will give an exemption of up to 15% to ECA candidates. Colleges usually keep an ECA quota to be able to get a pool of talent that will fuel its societies. Each college’s ECA seats and categories differ based on their societies and requirements. Not all colleges offer all ECA categories, said sources.
 
 Shalini said the colleges would have the merit list with them and keep a list of applicants approaching them for registration. After this process is completed, the college will release an admission list based on the registrations received. If a student finds that he is getting the course of his liking at the college of his choice, he must go back to the college and finish the process, which will include verification of his academic records and final formalities. He will be given two days to secure admission, and pay the fees online. In case, an applicant’s name doesn’t figure in the admission list, he will have to get himself registered at colleges again for the next round. 
 
 Bajaj said the university would also allow applicants to withdraw their candidature from a college in case they get through some other college in a subsequent list. For withdrawal, the applicant will have to get a form from the university’s online portal and take it to the college that offered it admission, get the original documents back from it, and move to the college of his choice.
 
 The final admission list is expected to be out on August 8.
 
 
