BENGALURU/MUMBAI: It’s not been a smooth ride for   David Guetta on his India tour this time. While his charity concert in Bengaluru was called off on Thursday in the light of law and order problems and recent incidents of  , in Mumbai where the French DJ was supposed to play the second leg of his four-city tour on Friday, the gig-spot was changed in the last minute after BMC cried foul.
 
  On Thursday morning, a message on the Sunburn website said the   was being cancelled for the time being. An official statement eventually released to the media quoted Sunburn CEO Karan Singh as saying, “Due to the present law and order situation in Bengaluru following the events that transpired around New Year’s Eve, the authorities have recommended against holding the   concert scheduled today in the city. We at Sunburn tried our very best to make it happen but the authorities, understandably, are not prepared to take any chances. Hence today's concert unfortunately stands cancelled…”
  
  Taking serious exception to the concert organizer’s tweet that police had denied permission citing a law and order situation in Bengaluru, IG (central range) Seemant Kumar Singh and Bengaluru Rural SP Amit Singh said the organizers were defaming Bengaluru Rural police for no reason. They said that permission was denied as elections to the local Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) were being held on the same day and the organizers had approached them only two days before the event.
  
  Sunburn removed the statement from their website and put out another that said, “The David Guetta concert scheduled for today, Jan 12, in Bangalore stands cancelled because permission was denied. On further discussion with the authorities, it has now been clarified that the primary reason for this is a date clash with APMC elections in the area on the same day, due to which the police couldn't deploy enough manpower. We had to shift the venue of the event a few days prior under advice from the administration, hence we only approached the local police for their support, that too quite late, which did not give enough time to appropriately plan for the event. We are now in a discussion with the authorities and the artiste to reschedule the show in the coming days. We shall have a further update on the same very shortly.”
  
  Asked why the organizers were late applying for permission to hold the concert at Embassy Riding School, Harindra Singh, chairman of Percept Live, the live entertainment division of Percept Ltd, which owns Sunburn, said earlier on Thursday, “We approached the administration last week for permission to hold it at another venue. When permission was denied, we applied for permission to hold it at the new venue (Embassy International Riding School) on Monday. The fact is the administration has been incredibly supportive and there has been no reason to doubt their intention. We held two concerts in Bengaluru in November and December. This time around we tried to be reasonable with our request to hold the concert, but whatever was their reason for not giving us permission, we have got to take their ‘No’ to mean ‘No’.”
  
  Meanwhile, in Mumbai, instead of the Mahalaxmi Race Course, fans will now have to redirect their routes to the Reliance Jio Garden in Bandra-Kurla Complex.
  
  Earlier in the day, the BMC had issued a notice stating that organizers of what was billed as a Sunburn Festival event at Mahalaxmi Race Course had not taken any permission from them for the program scheduled on Friday. They further stated that the organizers were supposed to take mandatory fire and other NOCs from the civic authority for the event.
  
  When TOI spoke to Harindra Singh, chairman and managing director, Percept, organizers of the event, he said, “We had pending issues with BMC which got resolved today but since the event is tomorrow, we did not want to take a chance and therefore thought it best to move to another venue. Next event onwards, we will go back to the Race Course. We’re expecting a footfall of close to 5,000 fans. Most of them are digitally connected and we have their contact details. We are in the process of sending out notifications.”
  
  But even as the organizers made hurried announcements on their digital platforms, they could not escape the scourge of angry fans disappointed with the planning. “Worst planning ever, this is the second time this is happening. Completely disappointed in #Sunburn. Never booking anything in advance again,” complained Yashas Murthy, one of the many disgruntled fans on Facebook.
  
  The man behind hits like “Titanium”, “Dangerous” and “Lovers on the Sun”, among others, is currently on the Unity Tour in India. The artiste will perform as scheduled in Delhi and Hyderabad.
