Bengaluru: Marquee global investor   International is set to buy a $200-million minority stake in   Technology Quotient (ITQ), a strategic business unit of Indian aviation leader InterGlobe Enterprises, people directly familiar with the matter said. Capital will buy about 37% stake held by a group of financial investors, including  ,   and  , valuing the company at around $500 million. 

 Last year, TOI had reported that investors were lining up for a secondary deal in ITQ, which is a GDS provider and partners global brands like Travelport in Asia-Pacific. InterGlobe promoters and aviation entrepreneurs Kapil Bhatia and Rahul Bhatia own about 63% in ITQ.
 
 Capital Group has more than $1.4-trillion assets under management. Its private equity arms pick up large minority interests in established, fast growing businesses. Capital’s recent investments in India include stake buys in domestic pharma majors Intas and Mankind, together worth around $320 million. Capital’s emerging market private equity portfolio includes China’s taxi-hailing firm Didi Chuxing and African tower company Eaton.
 
 The ITQ deal, estimated at $175-200 million, is mostly a secondary purchase from current financial investors who bought into the Gurgaon-based company almost a decade ago. Citigroup and Moelis & Co are advising on the transaction. An email sent to the Capital Group and ITQ didn’t elicit a response till the time of going to press.
 
 Apart from being the official distributor of the NYSE-listed Travelport, ITQ also provides tech, payment and a host of other solutions for the $7-trillion global travel and tourism sector. ITQ has a network of 500 cities and reached 36,000 agency terminals to provide end-to-end travel solutions.
 
 The company emerged from a rough patch when the domestic aviation industry went through turbulent times a couple of years ago, which saw the grounding of airlines like Kingfisher. ITQ is a high-margin business, though latest financial details weren’t available immediately. It clocked about $100 million revenue and $25 million net profit in 2015.
 
 
