MEERUT: Despite the top leadership of the   being on the run from the police, a mass mobilisation effort is on in   to ensure that thousands reach Delhi on May 21 to protest against alleged atrocities against Dalits. Hundreds from the community are joining the  , and lending a hand to the Dalit organisation's members. Through   and  , the word has spread within the community in the region.
 
  Chandrashekhar Azad, wanted for his alleged involvement in the clashes between police and Dalit protesters on May 9, has released a short audio message where he has appealed to all “fellow advocates” and those who believe in Ambedkar’s ideology to be present at Jantar Mantar in the national capital on Sunday. According to officials in Delhi, permission has been sought for a crowd of 50,000, but that many more are expected, due to which permission could not be given.
  
  In a letter, the deputy commissioner of police of New Delhi district BK Singh expressed fears that more than 50,000 would be present while he denied permission for holding the protest.
  
  “Jantar Mantar for dharna or demonstration cannot accommodate such a large gathering (50,000 people). There is some intelligence that the gathering will be higher than the intimation given by you,” the letter addressed to the organisers read.
  
  Vinay Ratan Singh, national president of the Bhim Army, said on the phone from an undisclosed location, “Many of us (leaders of Bhim Army) have been unable to engage directly in mobilisation efforts as we are being tracked by the police. But our cadres are doing this work. Also, after the atrocities against Dalits in Saharanpur, thousands of well-meaning people have come forward to support us in different ways.”
  
  The organization is mobilizing support through social media. “It reaches lakhs of people. We are using these platforms to spread word about the protest,” a Bhim Army member told TOI.
  
  Senior Dalit writer and political activist Chandra Bhan Prasad is among those spreading the word. “I am constantly in touch with my networks on social media and am doing whatever I can to spread the message. The response has been very good,” he said.
  
  According to protest organisers, meeting points have been decided, buses have been organized and funds raised. “The response has been fantastic. Around 30,000 will be going from Meerut alone. Those who can’t be accommodated on buses will come by train,” said an organizer.
  
  Many Dalits are also saying that the May 21 protest is not just about the incidents of Saharanpur, but about rising violence against Dalits ever since BJP’s dominance of national politics began in 2014.
  
  On CM Yogi Adityanath’s recent visit to Meerut, Dalits protested as the CM did not garland Ambedkar’s statue when he visited a Dalit-dominated area. “It shows the attitude of the CM towards the community. The energy that we are seeing this time as Dalits are organising is inspiring. We will fight this no matter what. Our entire basti will go to Delhi and do whatever it takes for Dalits to have their rights”, said Vinay Jatav, a resident of Malin Basti in Meerut.
  
  Vinay Ratan Singh expects upwards of fifty thousand people to be present at the protest. Satish Prakash, a Dalit activist and political analyst, believes that the number could be higher. “People are coming forward voluntarily. The anger is massive,” he said.
