BHOPAL: The absence of permanent infrastructure forced   to move from one building to another. After directives to shift to a private engineering college, university authorities contacted the state government to pay monthly rent owing to limited funds at their disposal. Incidentally,   has refused to provide more accommodation to the university despite availability of ample space. 

  The university is awaiting completion of its permanent campus for past six years. President   had laid its foundation stone in 2013. The campus is to be built on a 50-acre land on the outskirts of the state capital. 
 
 The university’s administrative department is being run from a couple of rooms on Bhoj university campus. Hindi university wanted more rooms to run classes, but Bhoj university refused to entertain their demand. A senior official of the Hindi University, without quoting his name, said, “Bhoj has ample space, but they do not want to give us.” 
 
 The university took space in   to run classes. Administrative staff, including the vice-chancellor and the registrar sit at Bhoj University. 
 
 Last year, the state government had declared to convert Minto Hall into a convention centre. Renovation work was also started in this regard. However, the work could not take place owing to the presence of Hindi University. The university was asked to vacate the venue to speed up that work.
 
 A senior official said the university was in search of a place where they get proper infrastructure. Finally, they have found a private engineering college to shift the campus for next one year. 
 
 However, the major issue confronting the university is how to pay monthly rent. “We had informed authorities about financial status of the university. They agreed to pay the rent, which is around Rs 7 lakh per month, by increasing the budget allocation,” said vice-chancellor  . 
 
 A senior teaching faculty of the university without quoting his name said, “This is strange that state government is ready to pay Rs 7 lakh per month, but is not able to complete construction work even after 6 years. This money could have been used for academic purpose.” There is a need to recruit teachers and provide better facilities among other things, he said.
 
