KOLKATA: Obsession with smartphones, tablets and other digital devices has significantly reduced the blinking rate in youngsters to a fifth the usual. It is also advancing the onset of dry eyes by nearly 25-30 years.

 Barring exceptions, humans normally blink 15-20 times a minute. During reading, it reduces to five-six times a minute. Of late though, eye specialists have found that children and youths, who are perpetually glued to smartphone, tablet or computer, blink only three-four times a minute.
 
 “The batting of eyelids acts like a car's wiper, spearing the tear over the eye to clean impurities and keep it moist. With people now staying wide-eyed most of the time, the tear is evaporating and the eye drying up,“ said eye surgeon Kajal  , who specialises in dry-eye syndrome (DES). It takes one-third of a second to blink.
 
 Nearly one in every two patients who walk into his clinic these days suffer DES that causes eye irritation or fatigue. “Earlier, DES was associated with aging and identified as a side-effect of menopause.Most patients would be over 50 years. But now, an increasing number of youngsters -in their mid-20s and even younger -are suffering from it,“ said Ghosh.
 
 Unlike the elderly though, the tear glands of youngsters aren't drying up. But the tears that they are producing are going to waste as they don't blink enough. “The change in lifestyle has led to a change in the definition of dry eye to include the condition where presence of tears don't serve the purpose because we forget to blink and they simply get evaporated. The tear equilibrium in the eye is getting disturbed,“ explained opthalmologist  .
 
 According to a research conducted by  , a platform for mobile marketing and commerce with insights on 500 million users, constant exposure to digital screens has increased the health risk on eyes, particularly among children and young adults who spend anywhere between 160 minutes to 263 minutes a day staring at their phone screens. Even those above 25 years who use the phone to converse spend 84 minutes on an average on their phones. Beyond this is the time spent on the computer and viewing television. “It is a grave situation,“ said opthalmologist  .
 
 Eye surgeon   says we will have to learn to change our habits by taking forced breaks from gadgets to stay healthy .“Evem a break lasting 2 minutes at periodic intervals will do,“ he said.
 
