CHENNAI: The jallikattu protests have put the state government in a fix on the conduct of   events on Thursday because of a complete lack of clarity on when the protesters, all astir to legalise the bull-taming sport, will move out of the Marina sands.

 Several hundreds of protesters on Sunday said they will stick to the view that the agitation will continue because the government has not decided on a permanent solution to ensure that the sport can be held without legal hurdles every year.
 
 Though secretariat sources said that the Republic Day parade will take place as planned at   and on its main promenade, Kamarajar Salai, police officers said they are already making temporary arrangements at   in Periamet, around 4km away, to ensure the smooth conduct of Republic Day celebrations.
 
 The city police, who held an emergency meeting with various government departments, shortlisted   as a standby venue for the events, which usually attract large crowds, if the protesters do not move out of Marina in a couple of days.
 
 Chief minister O Panneerselvam will raise the tricolour as governor C Vidyasagar Rao will be in Mumbai on Republic Day.
 
 Rehearsals for the events have, however, come to a standstill. The R-Day parade usually consists of floats from central and state government departments, schools, colleges and organisations for art and culture. A senior police officer said it will be difficult to hold the parade without proper preparations.
 
 The school and college students started to practise traditional dance performances including forms as as kummiyattam, salangaiyattam, kolattam, karagattam, silambattam and tambourine dance events a month ago.
 
 The state usually holds Republic Day rehearsals on   on January 24 after they shut down the venue to motorists and the traffic police make changes in vehicular movement on Kamarajar Salai.
 
 Contingents of the armed services shower flower petals on the national flag from helicopters and followed this with a ceremonial march.
 
 (With inputs from Meera Vankipuram)
 
 
