MALAPPURAM: The   such as   (SDPI) and Welfare Party of India (WPI), which have strong voter base in  , not to field their candidates in the upcoming byelection will make the prospects of LDF and UDF unpredictable.   also did not field their candidates this time. Earlier SDPI, WPI, BSP, RMP and PDP had planned to field a common candidate for the bypoll. But the plan was dropped after the discussion regarding this among the parties failed to reach a conclusion.

 The  ,  , who contested in previous Lok Sabha election in Malappuram, had managed to secure 47,853 votes, which is only 16,000 less than the number of votes polled in favour of the BJP candidate. The candidate of WPI, P Ismail had also secured 29,216 votes in the previous election. But both parties, which have strong presence in various parts of the district, have announced that they will not field their candidates this time.
 
 Meanwhile the parties, which claimed themselves as effective alternatives for traditional political outfits during their campaign for the last LS poll, are still silent on their stand in the byelection.
 
 The state president of SDPI, Abdul Majeed Faizi, said that the byelection result is not relevant as it will not bring any major change in the political representation in Centre. “Our candidate would not be in fray. But we will take a clear stand that would be communicated to our supporters in the coming days,“ he said. The state president of WPI, Hameed Vaniyambalam, also said that the party too will make its stand clear and that would be communicated to its cadres.
 
 The SDPI's voter base is strong in Manjeri, Malappuram, Kondotty , Vengara and Vallikkunnu areas and WPI also has large number of supporters in Malappruam, Vallikkunnu and Mankada regions.
 
 It should be noted that in the last assembly election, the SDPI candidates of seven assembly segments which come under the Malappuram LS constituency bagged only 16,170 votes altogether. The highest number of votes (3,667) was secured from Kondotty constituency. In last local body election the party had won a seat in Kondotty municipality. Meanwhile, the WPI candidates of six assembly segments of Malappuram LS constituency secured 18, 772 votes. The highest number of votes was recorded in Mankada (3,999) and Malappuram (3,330) constituencies.
 
 Meanwhile, nine more candidates filed their nominations for the bypoll on Thursday.
 
