SHIMLA: Smart city Dharamshala will soon have have door-to-door collection of garbage like Shimla. Under the pilot project, initially daily household waste is being collected from two wards under   and based on its success this model would be implemented in the rest of the wards. For waste collection, the corporation has engaged rag pickers who have been issued identity cards.

 Under the new process, small houses would have to pay Rs 50 per month, bigger houses would have to pay Rs 100 per month while commercial units would have to shell out Rs 500 every month, said Lalit Jain, Commissioner, Dharamshala Municipal Corporation.
 
 He said that currently, door-to-door collection has begun in ward numbers 10 and 11 and to collect the waste some street rag pickers have been organised while the charges have been fixed by the corporation. He said that this a pilot project to check whether the same could be implemented in all the wards. “Already the scheme has received good response from the residents of two wards,” he added .
 
 Jain added that Dharamshala generates around 10 tons of garbage on a daily basis which needs to be disposed in a scientific manner to save the environment. He said that with door to door collection, emphasis would be laid on the segregation of garbage at the source level (household) so that the waste could be sent for recycling.
 
 He said door to door collection would not only help to keep the city clean but would also provide livelihood to the needy people. “We have provided identity cards to those engaged in collecting waste from the households and they will also be registered with the police as a precaution,” he added.
 
 Jain said that the Dharamshala municipal corporation is also in the process to set up its own garbage processing plant.
 
 Jodie underhill, led   are already running a door-to-door collection and maintains the cleanliness of public places in Bhagsunag where they have installed and maintained dustbins. Jodie had started the weekly collection from   back in 2009. Waste Warriors has already collected and processed over 4223 tonnes of waste from Bhagsunag and Triund since they were registered in 2012.
 
