RANCHI: In an attempt to curb the   in state,   decided to carry out fogging of all its 55 wards. But the only problem is-only 11 out of 13 fogging machines are functional due to which the   is able to cover only one ward per week. 

 But few VIP areas in the state capital, such as the Governor house, CM's residence, Jharkhand High Court and Judge's Colony are regularly being covered, as a proof of which, fogging machines mounted on a vehicle are seen in these localities every evening. 
 
 Shobha Singh, a homemaker and resident of Morabadi said, "It is quite difficult to stay indoors in the evening. Despite using   repellents we do not get any respite. Besides, regular power cut has also added to our woes."
 
 Another homemaker Manju Kaura, a resident of Pee Pee Compound where the civic body safai karamcharis rarely lift the garbage dumped on either side of the road, said "The garbage dump and open drains have become a breeding ground for the mosquitoes. We have never seen fogging machines being used in our area."
 
 Residents of other areas are also spending sleepless nights and blaming the civic body which has failed to address their problem. "Our houses are situated very close to each other and there are small open drains in every lane, giving rise to diseases like malaria," said Md Saif, a resident of Hindpiri . 
 
 RMC health officer, Dr Kiran Kumar said 11 fogging machines are not enough to cover 55 wards hence once every week, three of our trained civic workers visit each ward to carry out fogging." He however denied that VIP areas receive regular fogging.
 
 Kumar said the Ranchi municipal area is divided into four zones (I, II, III and IV) and each zone has 13 wards. " Due to lack of manpower and defunct fogging machines, anti-mosquito spray in open drains and stagnant water, is carried out only once every week."
 
 "We are preparing to purchase 20 more fogging machines, the technical and financial bids for which are to open this month. The dates are yet to be finalized," he added. He also said the workers will start cleaning the clogged drains very soon.
 
 Other areas under RMC where residents are beseiged by mosquito menace are Bariatu, Morabadi, Hindpiri, Kantatoli, Old Commissioner Compound (OCC), PP Compound, Lalpur, Circualr Road, East Jail Road.
 
