BATHINDA: Police have registered a case of murder against a police post in-charge and other cops after the family members of a 61-year-old man, who owed allegiance to   (SAD), alleged that he died after being  , who had gone to his house in   of   to recover   on Tuesday.

 On the other hand, police claimed that the man, identified as Gurdev Singh, died of cardiac arrest after they had returned.
 
 Buckling under pressure, police agreed to register case under murder charges against the cops after family members of Gurdev and Akalis had declined to cremate him by placing his body on the road.
 
 Muktsar senior superintendent of police (SSP) Baljot Singh Rathore said a case of murder was registered against Bhai Ka Kera police post in-charge assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Gurdeep Singh and others accompanying him and matter would be thoroughly investigated.
 
 Police, however, failed to recover liquor or intoxicants from Gurdev’s residence. SAD workers assembled at Tarmala and accused the police of killing Gurdev in a fit of rage after they found no liquor at the house.
 
 Working on an old complaint, a police party led by Bhaikera police post in-charge Gurdeep had gone to Gurdev’s house in Tarmala on Tuesday afternoon.
 
 SSP Rathore confirmed that a police party had gone to Tarmala at the residence of Gurdev but the cops did not beat him up. He said, “The police party had returned after conducting the raid. Gurdev seems to have died due to cardiac arrest.”
 
 Gurdev’s son Manjit alleged that, “My father had no any case of illicit liquor or drugs and police unnecessarily tried to harass him on the basis of an old complaint and pushed him leading to his death.”
 
 Youth Akali Dal’s Muktsar unit chief Mandeep Singh Tarmala said, “When police failed to recover anything, they thrashed Gurdev and pushed him. Gurdev’s brother Sukhwant Singh and son Manjit Singh came to his rescue, but he lost consciousness. Then the police party left the place. Gurdev was taken to a primary health centre at Khubban where he was declared brought dead.”
 
 SAD activists Tejinder Singh Middukhera and Ranjodh Singh Lambi said, “We have informed our patron Parkash Singh Badal of police unnecessarily victimizing our workers. He has spoken to senior police officials. They said if denied justice, we will protest against the incident.”
 
 Bhai Ka Kera police post in-charge Gurdeep was not available for comments.
 
 
