BENGALURU:   may draft the upcoming budget with an eye on the 2018 assembly elections. Giving a hint of things to come while addressing legislators about the  , he said: “Usually, I don’t play games. But when I do, I score sixes.”

 With the BJP trying to up the ante against him by making allegations of raising funds for the Congress high command, Siddaramaiah, who holds the finance portfolio, hopes to give his image a big boost by injecting a higher dose of populism in the budget he’ll present next month. This will be his 12th budget, a first for a politician in Karnataka.
 
 Sources close to the CM told TOI that two factors pushed Siddaramaiah to go into overdrive. Firstly, the Union budget presented by   was a tad too bland for the masses. Secondly, a populist budget will give him the first-mover advantage in kickstarting the  .
 
 Sources said the priority will be on alleviating farmers’ distress in the worst drought year the state has seen over four decades. Siddaramaiah may also focus on his favourite areas -- health and education -- which he has often termed engines of social change. While recent incidents against women have also brought the CM’s attention towards increased efforts for safety, the focus will also be on creating more job opportunities for the youth.
 
 A senior IAS officer said: “Though department-wise pre-budget discussions will start from February 27, instructions have been issued to officials to scout for innovative ideas that will have mass appeal and be realistic too.” 
 
 Playing a potentially explosive game of caste politics in the name of social engineering, the Siddaramaiah camp feels the budget should be the trump card to halt political detractors and win over voters. Siddaramaiah has chosen to shelve the conventional political strategy of making more promises in the last budget (in this case, the one in 2018-19) and go all out with the 2017-18 budget itself. Sources said: “The strategy is very simple. He’ll make budgetary promises and ensure there is some action. Voters will see what is unfolding and take a call favourably instead of being swayed by poll rhetoric.” 
 
 
 
 
 Can Siddaramaiah afford a populist budget in times of drought and demonetization? Siddaramaiah is quite optimistic. He told the legislative council on Tuesday: “We’re number 1 in revenue collection among the southern states. Though our economy was affected because of demonetization and six years of drought, the growth rate has been good. In the current year (up to January) the growth rate has been 13.9 per cent. Our financial management has been good despite drought conditions.”
 
