DEHRADUN: The   has begun a crackdown on   companies after the death of a 35-year-old tourist from Delhi while rafting on the Ganga exposed how norms were being flouted by operators in Rishikesh.
 
  The tourism department on Thursday temporarily cancelled the licence of the operator whose raft Shubash Kumar and his cousins had taken on the stretch from Shivpuri to Ramleela last week.
  
  The group was taking a turn on the Golf Course Rapids, usually negotiated only by professionals, when their raft capsized. A magisterial inquiry under sub-divisional magistrate of   has been ordered into the incident.
  
  Talking to TOI, Pradeep Negi, adventure tourism in charge, Uttarakhand Tourism Development Board, said, “Illegal raft operators are being raided to deter those flouting guidelines.”
  
  According to an estimate in 2015, 140 legal rafting companies were operating against 310 illegal ones on the 40 km-stretch between Kaudiyala and Rishikesh. But it is not just the menace of unlicenced operators that the authorities have to battle, even those who have permits have been caught violating norms.
  
  “At present, there are 270 rafting companies in the stretch between Shivpuri and Rishikesh which have been granted licences by the Uttarakhand Tourism Development Board (UTDB). The licence allows the operator to run two rafts but companies have been running several rafts on the same licence,” Negi said.
  
  District tourism officer Sobat Singh Rana said that soon it would be mandatory for companies to have their registration number on the rafts they operate. “This will help catch those who operate without a permit or use the same permit for many rafts,” Rana said.
  
  Recently, the state government had formed a panel, ‘Ganga Valley Management Committee’, to take action against those who flout guidelines by overcharging or filling up rafts beyond capacity. Head of the panel, district magistrate (Tehri) Sonika (who only uses her first name), said that a serious note has been taken of the recent drowning death. “I will ensure that all unlicenced companies are removed and norms are strictly adhered to so that precious lives are not lost,” she said.
  
  Devendra Rawat, president of a rafting association who is also part of the panel, said that they have already identified some illegal rafting companies and reported them to the tourism department.
  
  The rafting operators said that among the norms that are violated most often include having no more than eight tourists, a guide and a helper on the raft and not allowing tourists below 14 years of age and those above 60 years of age. The rafts should also be equipped with life jackets, helmets, etc. Those who want a raft run from Rishikesh to Kaudiyala, which has the four most difficult rapids, must know swimming.
  
  However, most operators do no fact-checking and “verbal assurance” suffices as evidence of one’s  , age or fitness. Rachna Gupta, a Dehradun resident who recently took a rafting holiday in Rishikesh, said, “I have been to Rishikesh so many times but operators never ask us for proof of age or fitness certificate.”
  
  A raft operator at Shivpuri, Vineet Thakur, agreed with Gupta. “There is usually a high turnout for rafting. No one bothers to check whether the tourists actually know swimming or basics of the  ,” Thakur said.
  
  Another major cause of worry is lack of experienced guides. The survivors of last week’s rafting tragedy had claimed that their guides were inexperienced and refused to help.
  
  R C Bhardwaj, former chairman of the monitoring committee of the department which issues licences to rafting guides, said, “There is no particular institute to train raft guides. Usually, those who work on rafts as helpers learn and then become guides. They are given a licence only after being tested on their ability to handle a raft and rescue tourists. But some companies use untrained local boys as guides.”
