NAGPUR: Even as the   (NU) is yet to start   through its website, it has come to the fore that it shortlisted Yes Bank and HDFC Bank for the service without inviting tenders. Unlike in award of other works, the NU had invited banks to make presentations before it. 

 On December 6, 2016, TOI had reported about the NU management council approving the proposal to tie up with HDFC and Yes Bank in November. The NU had planned to start the service by December end but it got delayed as modalities are still being worked out.
 
 Registrar Puran Meshram, who was the finance and accounts officer (FAO), said the banks were shortlisted after his tenure ended. 
 
 “Tenders were not called because the proposal concerned only banks and there was no need for mass applicants. The proposal was formulated and banks were invited for making presentations. Service charges and rate of interest were compared for the award of contract,” Meshram said. 
 
 The decision was taken on the basis of a finance and accounts committee led by Vice Chancellor SP Kane, Pro-VC Pramod Yeole, director of BCUD DK Agrawal and the FAO . 
 
 Current FAO Raju Hiwase said the terms and conditions of these two banks suited us. “The proposal wasn’t initiated during my tenure so I won’t comment on that. The process was initiated in 2015 and I took over in June 2016,” he added.
 
 Vice Chancellor SP Kane said, “Nothing wrong has been done in awarding the contract. This is a specified service of the university. All banks were invited for making the required presentations. The two selected banks were shortlisted as they waived charges on   transactions. We don’t want our students to pay anything extra for forms and that is the sole reason we went ahead with these two. The presentations were not so very different from the usual selection through tendering process.”
 
 On the delay, Kane said, “Some online   services have already started while process for other services related to issuing of certificates will start soon.”
 
 
