BENGALURU: At the start of the day, a win was surely on  's mind, but even when he brought back spin whiz R Ashwin into the attack in the 25th over, with Australia at 95/4, he hadn't expected such a big victory. The 28-year-old later said that the 75-run win here on Tuesday was his best as a captain so far. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 For sure. Till now, this is the best one definitely. It was a quite emotional game for us, quite draining as well. Everyone got along together, we showed the team spirit, and a lot of people were talking about the head of the snake, but I think the snake did pretty well by itself, so it's not just about one individual. I'm pretty happy if they keep focusing on the head of the snake, and the snake can sting from other directions. I thought [this was] the sweetest victory for us.
 
 
 
 
 I think the first session on day two ­ we gave away only 45-odd runs and picked up two wickets when they could have taken the game away from us ­ they were 40 without loss (overnight). I think that was probably the momentum change that we needed, and throughout the day we didn't give more than 200 runs, we picked up six wickets, I think that for us was quite important, and something that you look for as a team. Someone has to step up and do the job for you.
 
 Those are things you need as a team to change the tide that's going against you. One thing is that we never stopped trying. We saw the first-class stats, and no team chased 120 also in the fourth innings, so we knew, once we get 150-plus, we have a fair chance to go at them, and eventually we surprised ourselves by winning by 75, honestly. I thought it was going to be closer than that.
 
 
 
 
 If they (Australians) are saying they need to get me out and the team will fall apart, I told everyone else, it's an opportunity for you. Let the pressure come, I have no problem, it doesn't make a difference to me whether I perform or not, I just look to learn from failures. If you perform well and the team wins, then obviously you're pleased, but you just want your team to win.
 
 
 
 
 We can't do much about the Ranchi pitch. It's always been slow and low, they know exactly what to expect there and we know what to expect as well. It's how you mentally prepare as a team. I think this was the kind of game we needed to sort of forget that hiccup in Pune.
 
