BHOPAL: Emergency ambulance services continued to be impacted on the fourth day of the   Dial 108 drivers and emergency medical technicians (EMT). On the other hand, the private operator that runs the   things were getting back to normal.

 The company, Ziqitza Healthcare that operates the ambulance services, have registered FIR against those threatening the employees reporting for work.
 
 On Saturday, protesting employees calling attention of the government had their heads tonsured in public. Around 40 employees were protesting at Idgah Hills.
 
 Health department’s stand has been unrelenting towards the striking employees. Private ambulance and call centre service operator, Ziqitza Healthcare officials said that 150 new recruitments have been made in the last 48-hours. The company claimed that 490 of its 606 ambulances were operational. 550 ambulances are expected to be on road across MP by Monday.
 
 “108 Deendayal Service is getting back to normal and the ambulances are doing the same number of calls as before the strike. Company has filed FIRs against all miscreants who have been harassing and threatening our staff. Government has provided full support and additional drivers and EMTs,” said a Ziqitza official.
 
 Government source said that they have written to the home department for imposing ESMA. However, 108 services are not yet part of essential services.
 
 Ziqitza took over the ambulance operations last year. The employees have been demanding better pay and work conditions.
 
 Health department sources said that one of the key issues to deal with new system is through use of GPS trackers in all ambulances to track the time taken for the service. 
 
 Publicly available data will show that the current average of three trips are assigned to an ambulance in a period of 24 hours. The average time taken to complete one job is approximately two hours. 
 
 To provide uninterrupted services to the public of Madhya Pradesh, we have approached respective agencies in charge to notify the Dial 108 services under ESMA. The company is also working to find alternate arrangements for staff to operate the services, sources said.
 
 
