MUMBAI: Footfalls at Andheri   station are expected to increase by almost 10,000 per day following the addition of an inter-change facility linking it to the foot-over-bridge (FOB) on the suburban railway network.

 In the absence of the link, commuters had to take almost a kilometre long detour via the existing narrow skywalk connecting the Andheri station railway FOB at the northern end. The new interchange is expected bring relief to thousands of commuters as it is a much shorter route. It was inaugurated by railway minister   via video-conferencing on Tuesday.
 
 Originally, this interconnection was supposed to be the main entry/exit point for those using the railway station. However, the Railways refused to bear its cost. Finally, the MMRDA provided the funds and work was carried out by   (MRVC).
 
 A Mumbai Mero One Private Ltd (MMOPL) official said, “Andheri Metro station has a footfall of around 72,000 commuters per day. With this short-cut in place, we now expect an increase in ridership by 8,000 to 10,000 per day.”
 
 The Rs 7-crore skywalk is 6.6 metres wide and 75 metres long, with a provision for booking offices. Metro officials said they had already made necessary changes to cater to the expected rise in footfalls at the newly opened entry/exit point. He said, “Besides beefing up security, we have added eight booking counters and also installed automated fare collection gates.” However, an official said   station, which already has a footfall of 94,053 commuters per day, will continue to have the highest footfalls.
 
 DN Nagar resident   said, “I would avoid the Andheri Metro station after alighting from the local train as it involved too much of a walk and preferred to take an auto though it was expensive.” Another commuter from Azad Nagar Santosh D’Souza said, “Authorities should ensure it remains free of encroachments.”
 
 While commuters welcomed the addition of the skywalk, they said the existing skywalk too needs better maintenance as tiles keep coming off at places and the hawkers are a big menace.
 
