Gurgaon: The state government’s new policy for regularising   in residential premises and for granting permission to new entrants will affect 63 nursing homes operating within MCG limits. 

 The policy, notified by the government on Wednesday, is applicable on establishments within municipal limits. Nursing homes operating under other jurisdictions, including Huda, housing board and licenced colonies will not be covered under this policy.
 
 It is, however, not applicable to nursing homes that have been operating before municipalities were constituted under Haryana Municipal Act, 1973 and Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, 1994. Owners of such nursing homes will only have to seek permission before changing or adding to the existing construction.
 
 As per the notification, nursing homes that do not fulfil parameters of the policy, will be allowed to continue at their existing address for another 10 years, on condition they make changes in accordance with the policy. But, if after 10 years, the applicant does not make the necessary alterations, a double fee would be imposed as penalty and the premises would be sealed.
 
 Elaborating on the parameters of the policy, Sudhir Chauhan, senior town planner of MCG, said, “The plot size should not be less than 350 sq yds for hyper potential zones (urban areas in and around Gurgaon town, including those declared by government for Gurgaon-Manesar Urban Complex) or high potential zones (Faridabad-Ballabhgarh Complex, Panchkula, Kalka, Pinjore-Gwal Pahari-Balola-Bandhwari Complex in Gurgaon district, Sonepat-Kundli Urban Complex, and Panipat) and 250 sq yds for medium potential zones (Karnal, Kurukshetra, Ambala city, Ambala Cantonment, Yamuna Nagar, Bahadurgarh, Jagadhari, Hisar, Rohtak, Ganaur, Palwal, Hodal, Rewari, Dharuhera-Bawal and Panipat oil refinery) and low potential zones (all other urban areas in the state). The approach road to the site should not be less than 12m wide.” 
 
 Also, each building should have enough space to park cars at least equal to the number of beds in the nursing home, plus four. For proposed nursing homes, if there is not enough space within the premises, parking space will have to be provided on a separate land located within walking distance. The aim is to ensure that no vehicle is parked on the street outside commercial establishments.
 
 Conversion charges for premises falling within municipalities would be Rs 6,000 per sq yd for the hyper potential zone; Rs 4,000 per sq yd for the high potential zone, Rs 2,000 per sq yd for the medium potential zone and Rs 1,000 per sq yd for the low potential zone.
 
 The new norms state that in case a doctor is the tenant, an annual conversion charge for a year will have to be paid in advance before the start of a new financial year, failing which, the permission would lapse automatically.
 
 
