MARGAO: Aggrieved over the excise department’s decision to not renew their licenses on the grounds that their bars are located within 500m of the state highway (SH) - 8 passing through the villages, affected bar owners and retail vendors in Chandor, Guirdolim and Curtorim, have now petitioned the chief minister over the ‘erroneous’ notice.

 The excise department’s decision comes following a   order dated December 15, 2016 directing that it ‘restrains the grant of licences for the sale of liquor along national and state highways and within 500 metres of the outer edge of a highway or of a service lane along the state highway.’
 
 The bar owners have received notices stating their units are located within 500m of the outer edge of SH-8, and therefore their licences are not valid from April 1 as per the SC order. 
 
 They had, last week, met town and country planning minister Vijai Sardesai, who had subsequently arranged for a meeting of   officials and villagers to provide an explanation over the village road being categorized as a state highway. 
 
 Sources said the PWD officials admitted to the ‘mistake’ and promised to rectify it soon. 
 
 In a letter to CM  , the bar owners have pointed out that the notice sent by the Salcete excise inspector stating SH-8 is passing through the internal village roads of Chandor, Guirdolim,and Curtorim is factually incorrect, as SH-8 has been shown to pass from Ravanfond to Quepem via St Jose de Areal, Guddi and Paroda in the Regional Plan 2021.
 
 The letter states that the internal road from Guirdolim junction to Curtorim is 8m wide and heavy vehicles are barred on it from Ramnagari to Guirdolim junction.
 
 “The road from Rawanfond to Paroda has been broadened and many parts of houses were even demolished for the purpose, as it was a SH-8 being built. The excise office notice showing that SH-8 passes through this internal village road is a mistake by PWD, as a result of which our licences aren’t renewed. We are suffering and it’s PWD’s fault,” the letter reads. 
 
 They have urged the CM to direct the PWD ‘to rectify the mistake’ and direct the Salcete excise station to renew their bar and retail vendors licences at the earliest. 
 
