Had they not been in their uniforms, the women police officers of the   at the ' ' screening on Monday could've easily been mistaken for a bunch of   fangirls meeting their favourite star. At the special screening organized for them in Delhi, the policewomen seemed no different from college girls swooning over the actor. Seeing their enthusiasm, Delhi Police Commissioner   told Akshay, "I think they will never forget this day, when they got a chance to meet you."

  
  (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
  
  (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
 
 The police officers said that because of his roles, Akshay is quite popular among the Delhi Police. Arti Sharma, SHO Maurice Nagar, said, "In a career of 28-29 years, this is the first time that I am watching a film in uniform. It's an amazing experience."
 
 
  
  
 
 
  The list of women police officers who got the chance to attend the screening was prepared at the Police Headquarters. A police official told us, "Police officers from across ranks and districts were selected and we were asked to report at 7.15pm in uniform." A few young constables who did not come in uniform were asked by their seniors to change. A constable said, "My relatives are asking me to send my pictures with Akshay. Baar baar phone baj raha hai aur sab poochh rahe hain, 'Kaisa lag raha hai?' These are the same people who would say to me 'Police ki job mein araam kahan hai?'" Tirath, a police officer from the welfare department, told us, "The girls are really excited about the screening and it’s a really good change from our hectic schedules."
 
 
 
  
  Akshay with the policewomen in the hall before the screening of the film (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
 
  
 While the women police officials were visibly excited to meet the filmstars, the actors told them that the feeling was mutual. Akshay said, "I haven't seen so many women in uniform together in my life before."  , who was introduced as "the hero of the film", said, "Aap log joh real life mein karte hain, woh thoda bahut karne ki koshish ki hai maine film mein."
 
  
  
 
 
  
  Taapsee Pannu at the screening (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
 
  When Akshay introduced Manoj Bajpayee as the film's villain, Manoj said, "Main villain nahin hoon iss film mein. Main woh hoon joh sir (pointing at the Police Commissioner) hain yahan par," making the room burst into laughter. Manoj added, "Aap sabko yahan dekh kar, yeh drishya dekh kar, bahut hi anand aa raha hai. Yeh drishya humne isse pehle dekha nahin tha. This is the country we want, this is the world we want." 
 
  
  
 
  When the police commissioner came on stage, all the policewomen in the audience became serious. But Akshay requested the CP, "Sir, main aapse itni request karunga ki aap inko allow karein ki koi scene agar inko achha lage, toh yeh taali bajaein."
 
 
 
  
  Manoj Bajpayee alongwith the cast of the movie (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
  
 The commissioner said, "It's a great privilege for the Delhi Police that you are screening your film for us. The women officials of the Delhi Police are doing a tremendous job. This is probably the most hard-pressed police force in the country. I am sure this film will motivate them." Addressing Akshay, he added, "I hope you'll keep the Delhi Police in mind in the future also. Feel free to contact us for anything you need."
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  Akshay Kumar with Delhi Police Commissioner Amulya Patnaik (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
  Since the film is a spin-off of the 2015 spy thriller 'Baby', Akshay asked the audience, "Aap logon mein se Baby kitne logon ne dekhi hai?" and when the hands went up, he was quite surprised to see the commissioner raise his hand as well. A senior police official said, "Well, this is something new we learnt today. Hum logon ko nahin pata tha ki commissioner sir film dekhte hain!"
 
  
  Delhi Police's women cops 'walked the red carpet' as they entered the hall before the film's team arrived
 
 
 
