LONDON: When   twirls and waves after her matches, she's acknowledging the crowd. It's an expression. She's also exhaling.

 The American, 37, into her ninth   final, where she'll play the 23-year-old  , said, "Even though this is entertainment, for the players it's complete and pure focus. You don't see anything or hear anything except the ball and what's going on in your head. That wave is finally moment of, 'I can enjoy this' before I go off the court," she said.
 
 
  
 That's just where Venus will be s looking to be on Saturday afternoon. Exhaling. Again. Not that the Spaniard, who made the final here in 2015, is going to stand by and watch. Muguruza is playing the best tennis of her young life. She was brutal in the semifinal against  , who was into the last four of a major for the first time. The Slovak may not have been up to the challenge, but she wasn't even given a hint of an opening. Muguruza was knife-like in her sharpness. 'Compete' is a word Venus often t turns to in media conferences. It's what she likes to do when she's on the court, get into the thick of things, the heart of the fight. It's what she did when diagnosed with Sjogren's syndrome, a chronic autoimmune disease t in 2011, throwing her career off track. She competed, she found a way.
 
 "There's definitely been a lot of ups and downs," Venus, looking to be the oldest Grand Slam women's winner in the Open Era, said. "I try to hold my head up high, no matter what is happening in life. In sport especially, you have injuries, you f have illnesses, you're not going to be always playing 100 per cent. But if I decide to walk out on the court, I try to compete."
 
 
  
 The American, who broke down during a press conference earlier in the tournament when quizzed about a car crash that killed a septuagenarian last month at the entrance of her gated community home in Florida, has been focused at Wimbledon, using her big serve smartly and maximizing on the first strike. "This year has been amazing, playing deep into the big events. I'm excited about being in another final. I'll try to take it a step further," Venus, looking for a sixth Wimbledon crown, said.
 
 The title round clash will be the duo's fifth meeting with the American leading the head-to-head 3-1. Muguruza won their last meeting, the only one played this year, in the quarterfinals in Rome in three sets.
 
 "I've never played her on grass, so that becomes definitely a different factor. I'll have to see what's working. I'll want to try to continue to play like I have in all these matches that I've played so far," Venus said, adding that she hadn't watched the Spaniard play at Wimbledon.
 
 Muguruza attacked the net in the semifinal, a feature of her play the whole tournament. Venus, however, hasn't looked to control the net outside of when she played   in the quarterfinals. "I've played really big servers every match. So there hasn't been a ton of time to get to the net. If I have an opportunity, I'll get in. I feel like I'm just adjusting to whatever I need to do at that moment. Points have been quick," Venus said.
 
 Muguruza predicted a fast-paced final. "We both have aggressive games. The serve is going to be very important," the Spaniard said. "It's very different to hold the trophy than what I achieved in the final here in 2015. I won the French Open (last year), I could feel the difference between winning a Grand Slam and not winning," Muguruza said, adding, "I want to be the one who takes the big one."
 
