KOLKATA: For ten long years, consultant neuro-psychiatrist Dr Sabyasachi Mitra had worked in Manchester. Though it’s been over 10 years since he returned to practice in Kolkata, Mitra’s ties with the city are still very strong. He makes it a point to go there at least twice every year. It was naturally quite shocking for him when news of the Manchester Arena attack broke out. After all, he has listened to at least two major concerts – one of Spice Girls and the other of Robbie Williams – at the same venue where the recent suicide bomb exploded.

 Mitra, who is again leaving for Manchester on June 24 and will be there till July 6, has worked in the city between 1996 and 2006. “For a year, I had worked at the Manchester Royal Infirmary. For another year, I had worked at the Salford Royal Infirmary. Then, for another year, I worked at the Trafford General Hospital. The remaining years was spent in greater Manchester. The last three years, I had taken up a consultant job in   with the Mersey Care NHS Trust,” he recalled.
 
 Shocked with the news, he immediately got in touch with his friends who still live in and around Manchester. “Most of them have teenage children for whom the Manchester Evenings News Arena is a favourite place to hang out. Very often, they go to watch plays or listen to concerts there. This news has completely unsettled them,” he said.
 
 For someone like Sharmila Gupta who has been living in Manchester for over six years now, this incident has been very shocking. Said Gupta, “The Manchester arena is one of the most popular places for concerts, especially for the young people. My girls have been there multiple times and have enjoyed themselves tremendously.”
 
 Describing the incident as “cowardly and atrocious” attack on children and young people, Gupta pointed out that the attack was planned and timed unlike the attack few months back in London. “This is a very scary happening. It is too close to us living here. My daughters’ friends were supposed to go this concert but cancelled at the last minute as their exams got scheduled at this time of the year!” she said. With so many dead and injured including children, Gupta is heartbroken. “Our thoughts and prayers with those affected,” Gupta said.
 
 Memories of attending concerts at the arena are fresh in Mitra’s mind. Incidentally, the arena has the highest seating capacity of any indoor venue in the UK and the second largest in the   with a capacity of 21,000. It is one of the world’s busiest indoor arenas, hosting music and sporting events such as boxing and swimming. Even the 2002   were held there. Said Mitra, “During the daytime, the place near the arena is the city’s business hub. Once work gets over, the arena is where one gets to witness the city’s happening nightlife. It is such a nice place to let one’s hair down. There are lots of bars inside. One can even carry his or her drink while watching the shows,” he recounted.
 
 Never during his stay in Manchester had Mitra been witness to any acts of violence. “Some of my friends talk about the Manchester bombing. The attack was carried out by the Provisional Irish Republican Army (IRA) on June 15, 1996. I reached Manchester in November that year. The IRA had detonated a powerful truck bomb on Corporation Street in the centre of Manchester. I later found that the bomb had targeted the city’s infrastructure and economy and caused devastating damage, estimated by insurers at £700 million (£1.2 billion as of 2017),” he said.
 
 But the Manchester Evening News Arena attack is even more traumatic for Mitra and his friends. What is bothering Mitra is the kind of impact this attack might have on the immigrant-friendly culture that Manchester has taken pride in. “There is a huge Asian population in Manchester. Such an attack actually punctures the soul of the city. Nothing could been more traumatic for the immigrants who stay there now. I just hope it will not make life difficult for immigrants in Manchester,” he signed off.
 
