A change of season evokes contrasting emotions in the hemispheres. In the north, there’s the anticipation of balmy days ahead. In the south, though, there’s the looming dread of the   sun, relentless and punishing.

 The weather’s in the conversation again, as it always seems to be in these days of sudden dips and surges in temperature (and the occasional drama of a western disturbance, to balance things out). In this week of the vernal equinox, the mercury inched up, eliciting a wistful reflection on a   that (for many) never was, a spring full of caprice – and a nervy look ahead to the blazing hot summer we’ve been told to brace for.
 
 Earlier in March, cool, rain-bearing breezes swept across the north of the country, helped by a fresh fall of snow in the mountains. The lead-up to Holi was as cold-kissed as it’s been in recent times, the daytime embracingly warm, the nights chilly but welcomingly so. Now, not even a fortnight on, spring, teasing spring, without so much as a by your leave, has disappeared, to leave in its wake intimations of the scorcher soon to envelop us all, for the best part of the next three months.
 
 A winter that keeps on shrinking, and a hot-weather season that continues to expand, upends the natural order of things. There’s less time to luxuriate in the December or January sun, less days to indulge in winter’s gastronomic bounties, less hours to devote to that set of tennis (or round of golf). At this rate, winter, the peculiarly bone-chilling winter of the northern states, is on its way to becoming a relic.
 
 Meanwhile, summer creeps up on us when we least expect it, when we’re still mentally snuggled in quilts and wrapped in woolens, munching peanut brittle and devouring oranges. And a drawn-out summer leaves a smaller window for the seasons that precede and follow the hot weather.
 
 Clearly, seasons are no longer what they once were. But making sure that towns have more canopies of green and less concrete cover can help in reducing heat islands, and cooling down the urban environs. Maybe that’s something for the city authorities to consider as the new fiscal gets under way.
 
 For now, comfort can be taken in the off-chance of rain some time during the coming week. Anything to keep at bay the soundless torpor of the months to come, when the only chill will be that coming out of AC vents.
 
 
