The pleasant sensation you get when you feel a cool breeze during a hot summer day is what you get when you watch Mani Ratnam’s romantic films. Be it Mohan-Revathy in Mouna Ragam or Madhavan-Shalini in Alaipayuthey, his lead pairs are etched in the minds of the audience. The latest addition to this list is the refreshing   and   Rao Hydari in  . Ahead of the film’s release, the on-screen jodi shares their experience of acting in a   film… 

 
 Mani sir challenged me with this role and transformed me into another person. I wouldn’t have dared to do such a script if not for him. Forget the audience, I myself had a doubt about getting into the character of VC. First, Mani sir asked me to lose weight, and then, he told me to remove my moustache and sport a clean-shaven look, and I have never done that before, so I hesitated at first. He gave me that confidence, challenged me, and asked me to get into that look. After shaving off my moustache, I looked in the mirror, and said to myself that ‘Nenacha alavuku mosama illa…’ (smiles). But, it’s not just about the looks; the character itself is complex, and it’s a huge opportunity for me to perform such a role at this stage of my career.
 
  I just pinched myself when I got a call from Mani sir’s office (laughs). It was a dream-come-true moment. When I first watched his film, I said to myself that I have to be a part of his film in future, and now, it has happened. 
 
 
  Konjam kashtam dhaan... (laughs, as Aditi pats him)
 
  I didn’t want to watch any of his films before the shoot. I wanted to react, and talk to him as a person, and not as a star. He was gentle, humble, kind and funny right from the first day of the shoot, so we understood each other quite instinctively. In fact, I felt protected when he was around.
 
 To be frank, I felt awkward. I had done the research for the character, but it was so difficult for me to perform there in front of Mani sir. It was like I had forgotten how to act. It was a night shoot for me, while the others, including Aditi, had been shooting from morning. They’d shot more than four scenes on the first day, and I was shocked. And, my first shot was the pre-climax scene, so it was important for me to get into the skin of the character right from get go.
 
 
  I read a few interviews of hers, and watched songs from her Bollywood films after coming to know that she was going to be my co-star. I had heard that she was sincere when it came to work, and that’s was true, as she was so good on the set. I mean, despite not knowing the language, she was ready with all her dialogues. And she does have some connection with the south as she grew up in Hyderabad, so I was sure she would be quite familiar with the sound of our language. And, she has been to Chennai before as a dancer, and has performed at Kalakshetra.
 
 
  We don’t know about it, you must ask only Mani sir (laughs) 
 
  It’s in Mani sir’s writing. When I read the script, I felt the conversation between the two characters was refreshing and beautiful. So, I didn’t have to perform; I just had to deliver those dialogues in a convincing way. Mani sir can write what a girl thinks, and what a guy of the same age thinks, too. He is a master.
 
 
  I don’t think so. The guy’s characterisation is not a light-hearted, playful one, like Mouna Ragam Karthik, or Alaipayuthey Madhavan or O Kadhal Kanmani’s Dulquer Salmaan. He is not a boy, but a man who has served in army for more than 10 years.
 
 
 : Mouna Ragam is my all-time favourite, and it will always be. Revathi’s chemistry with both Karthik and Mohan is just fantastic. One is a wild, fun boyfriend, and other one is an understanding husband. We all can’t forget this film.
 
  I haven’t watched Mouna Ragam, but I loved Mani sir’s Alaipayuthey. It’s very close to me, and has stayed with me always. His first film I saw was Bombay, and it was that film that made me wish to act in his film.
 Karthi: The theme of Bombay will make you fall in love with it again and again.
 
 
 I am still an assistant director (laughs). I always tell Mani sir that I am not an actor, and behave like his AD on set.
 
  Karthi never gets satisfied and wants to keep improvising. He ensures that every scene is perfect, and goes as planned. 
 
  I always see the continuity of scenes like an AD. Old habits die hard. 
  
 
  The craziest thing was the cold. We shot most of the sequences in temperature of -8 degrees in Ladakh, and it was so tough. My feet turned blue because of the extreme cold, and they remained blue for almost a month. I fell sick, too. Aditi used to stand wearing sleeveless dresses in the outdoors, and I still don’t know how she managed.
 
 
 I only thought about Leela, not Aditi there.
 
  (Interrupting) OK! Thanks. 
 
  I mean I got into the character so much. I didn’t think about being nice to people, too. For me, it was just about the scene, and the two characters. 
 
 
