LUCKNOW: Expressing their solidarity with the   in Maharashtra,   of Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) and   (KGMU) organised a   in city on Thursday. 

 The UP chapter of Indian Medical Association also participated in the march. Over 4,000 doctors across Maharashtra are on a strike since Monday to register their   against the rising attacks on doctors of government hospitals by patients’ relatives. The protesters are demanding more security for doctors of government hospitals across the state, even as the strike has hampered the patient care services severely. 
 
 Secretary, SGPGIMS’ faculty forum, MS Ansari said, “There have been many such incidents in the past and they have left the medical fraternity perplexed as to how they can be asked to continue to discharge their duties while being under a constant threat of being assaulted.”
 
 He added that doctors are expected to go through the grind of rigorous training and then serve as conscientious professionals. “It seems that certain sections of the society expect the doctors to take such maltreatment in their stride and forget about the humiliation heaped by patients’ families,” he said.
 
 “Would policemen, shopkeepers, Members of Parliament, judges, postmen, drivers, expect to be beaten up by emotionally charged members of the public who are not satisfied by their services? Then, why is a doctor expected to tolerate such nonsensical behaviour and yet continue to work selflessly,” added PGI’s faculty forum. 
 
 In a statement SGPGI said, “We request the Maharashtra government to provide security to all the doctors across the state so that such incidents do not happen in future. We also request the state and central government to take necessary steps for the security and safety of doctors and the supporting staff.” 
 
 President of IMA’s UP chapter, Dr PK Gupta said, “A society that treats its healthcare professionals in such a condemnable manner cannot expect them to take care of its health professionally.”
 
 
