HYDERABAD: The civic authorities' failure to raise the level of road -while laying a fresh one -up to the height of the manholes has become a serious cause for concern among commuters. Apart from increasing the risk of an accident, these also lead to frequent vehicle breakdowns.

 Some of the stretches where these effects are prominent include King Koti cross roads, Punjagutta and  . In   such uneven roads can be spotted in Dabeerpura, Saidabad, Chaderghat and Nalgonda cross roads. In the case of Punjagutta and some parts of Koti, while the   (GHMC) workers have increased the height of the manholes, the work was not properly done to match the height of the existing road.
 
 “On several occasions I have had to apply sudden brakes due to these pits, which turn out to be death traps if not noticed. There are chances of the vehicle coming from behind ramming into the one in the front,“ said Sateesh G, who regularly commutes via the King Koti cross road.
 
 Then there are health issues as well, say city doctors. “When a person applies sudden breaks or rams his bike into a pit, the impact of jolt is borne by the shoulder and neck. That can prove be a problem,“ said Somshekar Reddy, orthopaedic surge on at  . “Back pain is the most common problem among motorists who visit the hospital,“ he added.
 
 Four-wheeler drivers complain how these pits often end up burning a huge hole in their wallets, as their cars report frequent damage.
 
 “I have to spend around Rs 3,000 every six months as the shock absorbers of my car get damaged because of such bad roads. Some manholes in my area are elevated and I have to run my car over it as I can't take a sudden turn to avoid it, said Ghulam Ahmed a marketing executive from the city.
 
 According to civic officials, work is on to identify and fix these pitsuneven roads. “We will increase the height of the manhole or replace the lid to match it with the road level. If the manhole belongs to the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board, we will inform them and ask them to do the same,“ said M Shanker, deputy chief engineer (maintenance and administration), GHMC.
 
