Marana Gana Viji’s recent song for the film Mayavan, Maya Masthaavaa Gana Isthaavaa… has become a craze among people who love ‘samma’ local songs. Chennai Times caught up with the singer for a candid chat:

 
 
 I have never been lured by films. But now, filmmakers and music directors are approaching me and whenever a suitable song comes up, I sing them, that’ all.
 
 
 
 The songs that I sing in films are not the real ganas. The difference between gana songs and other genres of music is that you can’t create or confine gana within a frame work. Chennai thaai petredutha tharuthali pillaikalin paadal thaan gana. Gana is the expression of Chennai people, of those oppressed, discriminated or pushed away to the fringes by the society. Gana songs have been featured in Tamil cinema even in 1968, that too, with a female singer. The first gana song in films was in the movie Bommalattam and the credit for singing the song goes to the late actress Manorama, who sung Va Vathyare (Jambajar Jakku…) and also acted in it. Its lyrics were penned by late Vaali. 
 
 
 
 As I said, gana is the voice and language of people who are outcasts — those who live in kuppams and near burial grounds. I can put it this way: while the voice of other types of songs comes from the throat, gana songs are sung by the singer from the bottom pit of his gut. It’s about life, struggle, happiness and everything around him. Though some of today’s youngsters are trying to bring in romantic songs in the gana format, there are few romantic and devotional songs in gana. Since gana is never wrapped up in divinity or decorated with an upper-caste halo, it has never been promoted. An artiste is the creator of an art and giving it a different colour is a hollow act. There is only one eternal truth, and that’s death.
 
 
 
 There are five types of ganas — attu gana, which is changing the words of the film songs and singing; aal gana, where a singer composes a tune, creates his own lyrics and sings it with his own rhythm; jigiri gana, songs which are sung about intoxication, and pain (mostly, films feature such songs); deepa gana, which is singing the songs of our ancestors or founding fathers; and marana gana, songs that are sung either in praise of the dead person or in praise of death as such.
 
 
 
 Like the trinity of Carnatic music, there are three gana singers considered as gana founders — Aayiram Vilakku Selva, Myali Venu and Sinthai Nathan. They were all famous in their own ways. However, due to lack of patronage from the wealthy and those in authority, they did not get much recognition. 
 
 
 
 I became a gana singer all by myself and no one handed over me anything. Similarly, I also don’t want to document or record anything saying that it’s for the coming generations. I am particular about this, since I am pretty much sure that if I do so, such documentation will end up in the hands of some unscrupulous person chasing fame and money, and he would claim its copyright later.
 
 
 
 By stealing someone’s creative work, you are actually depriving them of advancement in life. Often, those who steal such creative works cite an excuse, like saying that they did it because they were impressed by the work. Will you steal a television or jewellery and keep it with you saying that you are impressed by it? It is because of this fear of being copied that I have never recorded or documented the   I sing at death.
 
 
 
 I travelled wide and handpicked words and principles to put together the ‘death doctrine’. It has 13 chapters and I have arrived at it after visiting several places, including Kasi. It takes nine hours to sing it. Each chapter will have three stories and three to four songs. I perform it solo to the accompaniment of conch, thappatta and such instruments.
 
 
 
 I am ever thankful to Harris Jayaraj sir for that. He believed that someone as simple as me can sing that song and make it a hit. And the high point is that the song took me to even London and Toronto. Koovathukarayile paadina enna Thames nadhikkara varaikkum koottittu ponathu antha paattu thaan.
 
 
 
 It’s the promo song of the film, Mayavan and has music by Ghibran. Sikkander has written the lyrics. It’s a happy song, but it took me five hours to sing it.
 
 
 
 While I am getting offers to sing in films, I am at a crossroad. It’s an irony that when I sang in chaste Tamil, I could not even manage one square meal a day. But now, I sing in films with all kinds of lyrics, and I have enough money to live a comfy life.
 
 
 
 I have to thank Na Muthuswamy of Koothu-P-Pattarai for that. I spent some years with him, and it was he who taught me good Tamil. Also, why do people want to stereotype gana singers? There’s no rule that a gana singer should speak only in Chennai slang, no?
 
