CHARMINAR: With the Centre reportedly planning to crack the whip on   refugees and sentiments rising against them in Jammu region, activists working for them said most Rohingyas in the city have refugee cards. 

 The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees issues refugee cards to those fleeing persecution in the own countries after a thorough vetting process. The activists said it from this agency that Rohingya Muslim refugees have obtained cards. 
 
 According to police sources, the number of refugees in the city is approximately 3,400. Around 400 are those from various countries such as Yemen, Afghanistan and Iraq, among others.
 
 City-based activist   from Confederation of Voluntary Associations ( ), an implementing partner of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, pointed out that international charters prohibit the deportation of refugees. 
 
 "Those residing in the country illegally such as after the expiry of a visa are very different from refugees and asylum seekers. While the former can be deported, the latter groups are protected by the charters. The government can send them to a third country provided that the country is willing to take them in," Hussain explained. 
 
 He said that a vast majority of refugees which COVA is handling have refugee cards. Several others, he said, have a Under Consideration Certificate which means that granting them refugee status is being considered.
 
 It was in 2012 that refugees from Myanmar began to arrive in the city. While their numbers were considerably high as many as an estimated 100 a month the arrivals began to taper off subsequently. "The number of Rohingya refugees has dropped since 2015. It was even lower in 2016," Hussain said. 
 
 Explaining the process of obtaining refugee cards from the  , he said that it is a four step process which could take up to a year as the agency is meticulous with its work. "The process includes a first interview which sees the person or family being interviewed followed by other processes," Hussain said.
 
 These refugees live in different parts of town including Balapur and Kishan Bagh, among other areas.
 
 Those residing in the country illegally such as after the expiry of a visa are very different from refugees and asylum seekers. While the former can be deported, the latter groups are protected by UN charter. The government can send them to a third countryprovided that it is willing to take them in “ Hussain explained.
 
 He said that a vast majority of refugees which COVA is handling have refugee cards. Several others, he said, have a Under Consideration Certificate which means that granting them refugee status is being considered.
 
 It was in 2012 that refugees from Myanmar began to arrive in the city. While their numbers were considerably high - as many as an estimated 100 a month - the arrivals began to taper off subsequently. “The number of Rohingya refugees has dropped since 2015. It was even lower in 2016,“ Hussain said.
 
 Explaining the process of obtaining refugee cards from the United Nations High Commission Refugees, he said that it is a four step process which could take up to a year as the agency is meticulous with its work. “The process includes a first interview which sees the person or family being interviewed followed by other processes,“ Hussain said.
 
 These refugees live in different parts of town including Balapur and Kishan Bagh, among other areas.
 
