HYDERABAD: Justice, A   of the  , has ordered demolition of 5 unauthorised floors raised in each of the two buildings in housing board colony of   area in Hyderabad city. 

 The judge pronounced this order after hearing a contempt plea filed by Padma Reddy and others who were residing in the same colony and were aggrieved with the illegal structures because these extra floors, built without following any norms, are adversely affecting their lawful structures and rights. 
 
 The two errant structures have 6 floors above their ground floors, though the permission obtained by their owners was only for ground plus first floors. 
 
 Ever since the hearing in the petition has commenced in December 2016, there have been series of claims, counter claims, denials, admission of guilt, status quo orders from a civil court, their interpretation, misinterpretations etc. The same story that unfailingly repeats whenever a neighbour or concerned a citizen brings it to the notice of the high court about illegal structures. 
 
 But this time, the judge investigated a little more and brought out interesting facts. The irony is, at the end, the people that were nailed or caught were not just the owners of the illegal structures. The list included the officials of the city planning wing of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation ( ) also. Justice Ramalingeswara recorded the whole sequence of events in his judgement.
 
 The representations given to the GHMC officials by the neighbours informing them about the Bahadurpura illegal structures in April, May and June months of 2016 did not evoke any response. They enclosed the photos of the structures to drive home the seriousness, but was of no use. 
 
 Then they uploaded the same on to the GHMC website registering their complaint online as well. When even legal notices issued to the GHMC officials calling upon them to do their duties too drew blank, then the neighbours knocked the doors of the high court. Though an order was passed by the HC asking the GHMC officials to see that no further floors are raised on December 22, 2016, few more floors were added only after this order. 
 
 When a contempt case was filed against the officials, an assistant city planner then filed a counter affidavit simply saying that their inspections revealed that no further constructions were made after the court order. 
 After noticing that the court was delving into the details, he filed a second affidavit in which he said that the owners commenced construction without notifying them. He also said that they issued show cause notices to the errant owners. By the time we want to take further action, the owners approached the city civil court and obtained a status quo order, he said. What he failed to explain was that the owners raised few more floors after this status quo order also. 
 
 A status quo order is in fact a direction to both warring parties to maintain the prevailing status as on the date of the order. The assistant city planner said they roped in the police too because the owners were raising structures during night time. But the police said they would interfere in a civil dispute only when there is a specific direction from the court to them asking them to do so. Mere Status Quo is not sufficient for them. They will act only after the judgement of the city civil court in the matter. 
 
 The police made it clear that the GHMC cannot throw the blame on them for their lapses. Then the city planner spoke of some partial demolitions they effected to the two buildings. This did not affect the structures at all, they are all well plastered, painted and the wholes made by the city planners at some of the floors, in the name of implementing the orders of the court, mean nothing for them.
 
 Describing these efforts as evasive, the judge asked the GHMC officials to demolish all the unauthoriesd floors of these two buildings within three months from now. It is only your laxity that is giving rise to the raise in the illegal structures in the city, Justice Rao said. When you realised that the court is monitoring the case, you resorted to some symbolic demolitions. Stop this symbolism and demolish the unlawful floors completely, the judge said while closing the contempt case. The judge told the petitioners to come back with a fresh contempt plea if the city palnners continue their symbolic gestures.
 
