JAIPUR: The Jaipur   has already earned the distinction of operating the first all-woman Metro station in the country.

 The Metro station, Shyam Nagar, is being operated successfully by an all-woman staff since September 2016.
 
 The station, which was christened ‘Pratham Mahila Shakti Railway Station’, employs 32 women across all services. The women staff is engaged in all operations, from supervising customers and passengers to taking care of maintenance and cleanliness of the station.
 
 Rajshree Saini, a customer relations assistant who has a had an excellent stint at Shyam Nagar till now, said, “We are proud of our job here. We are setting an example for the entire nation. Each passing day gives me more confidence and strength to handle these operations.”
 
 Supporting her views, train operator-cum-station controller Monika Mittal said, “It has been an enriching experience. I beleive women are more stronger than anyone to handle the entire operation. Six months ago, I became a mother and with the help of women staff members, I could strike a balance between work and home.”
 
 The   is already a role model for the nation and the only railway organization to have up to 30% women employees.
 
 On the 9.25km stretch, from Mansarovar to Chandpole, about 200 women manage the entire show. The corporation is planning to increase the number of women in service.
 
 Incidentally, the first Metro that rolled out on June 3 was operated by a woman. “The decision to deploy only women at the station was taken to empower them and boost their confidence in handling such operations. It will break the myth that women at Metro stations are doing comparatively easier jobs,” said JMRC director (operations) C S Jeengar.
 
 The   (JMRC) also provides safe environment for its women staff, Jeengar added. “We have given accommodation at Mansarovar to 34 women staff members. Other than job security, this ensures that they also have a safe home,” he said.
 
 Creche for children of workers: Unlike most new mothers, women working at the Jaipur Metro will no longer have to suffer the guilt of leaving their young ones at home while going for work. The Metro is all set to launch a creche at Mansarovar Metro station this month to help women staff strike a healthy work-family balance. The idea of a creche at workplace is entirely new in Jaipur.
 
 The JMRC has decided to introduce the facility following the Central government’s direction. As per the Maternity Benefit Bill, passed by the   in 2016, companies and organistions with 50 or more workers must set up crèches within office premises. This aims to prevent women from quitting jobs to take care of babies. “A creche for 20 kids up to the age of five years will be set up. As women have long working hours here, they will be able to meet their children during lunch break or free time,” said C S Jeengar, JMRC director (operations). 
 
 
