GANDHINAGAR: After palming off its 80% stake in the   gas block to  , for a whopping Rs 8,100 crore,   (GSPC) is now set to re-enter it, by acquiring the 10% stake in the basin of its JV partner, Geo-Global Resources (GGR). The stake transfer will involve only the GGR’s call money of roughly Rs 500 crore. GGR and Jubilant Offshore Drilling Pvt Ltd (JODPL) each each hold a 10% participating interest in the KG basin block.

  The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India had earlier come down heavily on the Gujarat government, the promoter of GSPC, for the massive outstanding sums of GGR and JODPL. The CAG observed that on March 31, 2015, a huge outstanding amount of Rs 1,734 crore was against GGR. In May 2016, Gujarat energy minister Saurabh Patel had given an assurance that once the company began commercial production, the pending recovery of Rs 2,319.43 crore from its JV partners would be made.
 
 Strangely, GSPC has now decided to accept GGR’s proposal for a write off of its 10% share in the KG basin operation . For GSPC, which has been supporting GGR in KG basin block, this deal comes at zero cost. This is because GGR’s outstanding amount will form part of the sale. The process will take three months, sources said.
 
 Chief secretary J N Singh, who is also the chairman and MD of GSPC, told TOI ,“ GGR had approached us to surrender its 10% share in the KG basin operation. The government has, in-principle, agreed to accept the proposal as it was decided when the contract was signed with GGR. We have sought permission from the ministry of petroleum of the government of India too. Our new partner, ONGC, has also suggested that we accept GGR’s proposal.”
 
 The Public Enterprise Committee (PEC) of the state assembly had noted that, “GSPC took an ‘unacceptable risk’ in the gas exploration at KG basin. The PEC said that against an estimated expenditure of $109.70 million, GSPC spent $1,404.86 million, 12.81 times what was estimated while placing bids, for three phases of gas exploration.
 
