The next time you want to have some fun, just get into a pickle. Well, not literally. The word actually lends itself to a fun, up-and-coming sport — pickleball! It’s a game that mimics  , lawn   and  , and is rising as a fun alternative to the usual court games. Having originated in the US,   has caught on as a recreational regimen across the world, including Mumbai, where it is seen as the new   de-stressor...

 
 
  
  
 
 There’s no rocket science to pickleball — it’s a paddle game played with a plastic perforated ball over a low net on a badminton-sized court. The ball is served underhand, diagonally and returned to-and-fro till an opponent misses hitting it. The side leading by a two-point margin wins.  , who introduced it to Mumbai, explains why it serves up so much fun. “This is an easy-to-learn, non-risky game. The idea initially took off as a fitness sport, but of late, people are looking to play it as a strategy-based, brain game. Pickleball challenges one’s abilities — physically, you’re on your feet and mentally, you’re wired up in a fun way as you plan the placement with the ball.” He shares further, “A foreign pickleball coach, who visited us recently, remarked that the game makes one a ‘crouching tiger’ — where a player must huddle into a combat position and grab a point when the opponent exhibits some form of weakness.” 
 Unlike other racket sports, this game is not just about power, but also about cognitive thinking and mental agility. “Corporate folks, who’ve been playing pickleball, feel that it made them more alert and focused. So, it’s something that can really catch on,” he adds. 
 
 
 
 The sport is slowly spreading to several areas in the city and if you drop by a local gymkhana or private space near a housing society, you are likely to catch the picklers (the official name for the players) in action. For many, the game has come as a solution to health woes while for others, it has helped forge friendships. Says Uday Dhonde, a city-based design engineer, “We are about 16 of us who play pickleball in the mornings at Vile Parle, and find that it really revs us up for the day. I had suffered heart trouble earlier and the doctor suggested that I walk for an hour every day. But walking and the gym got monotonous and boring, and then a friend introduced me to this new game.” Besides helping him develop better coordination while playing, his social circle has also widened with the new sport. “It’s like a community now. We are so passionate about the game that you’ll find us often telling each other — ‘Dosti court ke bahar, game mein nahi’. On the court we have to win,” he grins.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Several   are taking to this new sport to de-stress post work hours. Reveals businessman Manish Rao, “A group of us play pickleball from 9 pm to 11 pm every night and it just melts the day’s stress away. We also have a dedicated court for it in our building. My wife and some friends also participated in a pickleball district   a few days ago. It’s a good thing that the game is getting popular as its physical health benefits are huge. It also makes you mentally strong — it’s like chess, where you need to devise many strategies while you play.” 
 Adds entrepreneur and former national-level badminton player, Natasha Baig, “I stay in Andheri, but I never miss a single pickleball game — whether it’s at an indoor court at Juhu or Khar.” Describing it as perfect sport for busy people with not-so-great fitness levels, she explains, “In badminton, you need a lot of agility and in tennis, you a need a lot of strength as it’s a bigger court, but this game falls in between and doesn’t require too much of either.” 
 Not many are aware that the pickleball sport is also a national level tournament. “Unfortunately, just a few local housing societies and buildings in Mumbai have dedicated pickleball courts. A gymkhana at Khar has also got an indoor court for the game. Having said that, let me add that Mumbaikars are not as aware of the game as they are about say, volleyball. It’s time the city got a new sport,” she adds. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  A soft shot in the on-volley zone that lands in the opponent’s non-volley zone.
 
  Bringing the paddle back from the ready position to take a shot.
 
  Another name for the non-volley zone.
 
  A shot that sends the ball soaring high, forcing the opponent to retreat towards the baseline.
 
  Hitting the ball after one bounce.
 
  To move into your partner’s zone to play a shot.
 
 
 Pickleball is said to have been named after three fathers in the US who were trying out a game to entertain their kids. One of their pets, a dog called Pickles, chased after errant balls during the game and that is how it got its name.
 
 
 
