PUNE: Techies of different IT companies stood in front of  's workplace forming a human chain on Friday demanding respect for women, five days after the Infosys employee was brutally murdered in her office. 

 Around 25 techies assembled with posters and banners having the photograph of the murdered Kerala woman around 6.30pm near the Infosys Circle of Hinjewadi IT Park. The mood was grim and the techies, including several women, were visibly disturbed.
 
 "All we want is respect and honour from people. It seems that women are not safe anywhere. How can she be killed in this way? People don't have respect for us and we have become nothing but the easiest of all targets. Just show and give us respect and make us feel safe," Shilpa, an IT professional working in one of the companies in the area, said.
 
 Chetan Bhate, another IT professional, said, "People tend to feel differently about IT professionals. The general feeling goes that we are cool people who enjoy life and are very well paid. They do not understand the kind of pressure we are in. Rasila was in office on Sunday to complete her work when she was killed without any reason. The people's mindset about the IT professionals needs to change. People should understand the fact that we work very hard and the IT sector is not a bed of roses."
 
 The event to form the human chain was organized by a group calling them Hinjewadi IT Engineers on Facebook.
 
 Amit, a member of the group, said the murder of Rasila had shocked and scared him. "Before this, another techie,  , was murdered. While the arrest of the man involved in Rasila's murder is commendable, the fact is that women are just not safe anywhere. If they are not safe in their workplaces, where should they go?" he asked.
 
 Another female IT professional, who requested anonymity, pointed out that while they still felt safe at their workplace, a murder like this was traumatizing. "I cannot even imagine it. Just think about a woman working alone in her 'safe' office when she is killed brutally with no one to help or save her. I work in an IT firm, too. Even now, I feel safe. But a doubt is creeping in and I am scared going to lonely spots in my workplace these days. I have started to look around or ask other female colleagues to accompany me if I have to go to washroom. I don't want to live in this kind of fear and I don't want this fear to take root in me. People should not view women as objects but as human beings," she told TOI. 
 
