MUMBAI: The crackdown on hospitals for overpricing stents has broadened into a   with   being roped in to check inventories.There are also plans to send in   and keep an eye on hospital billing data through insurers to ensure compliance.

 A day after TOI reported that high-end stents have been withdrawn from city hospitals in a bid to avoid price control, the state Food and Drug Administration (FDA) stepped in on Friday to carry out an informal survey on compliance of price capping at hospitals and availability of implants. Union minister for chemical and fertilizers Ananth Kumar, who was in Mumbai on Friday, said any hospital or clinic found overcharging patients could even face criminal prosecution. “If we come across any such incident, we will first send a notice to the hospital and then follow it up with criminal prosecution. We won't hesitate to shut down the hospital if there is evidence of profiteering,“ he said. The latest third and fourth generation stents remained out of bounds for patients on Friday on the pretext of price relabelling despite the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) clarifying it was not mandatory . The Maharashtra Food and Drug Administration (FDA) on Friday became one of the first state-level bodies to enforce the price regulation of stents, stating any attempt at creating a shortage with be dealt with strongly .
 
 But manufacturers and distributors of the high-end stents, such as Synergy , Alpine, Absorb etc, let FDA officials know the latest stents cannot be made available within the price range fixed by the NPPA.“We have contacted local distributors and all major hospitals of the city. They told us the ones taken away are too expensive to be offered at the price range fixed by the government. While the stakeholders are working out some solutions with the government, we will keep a check on hospitals and ensure there is no overcharging,“ said Vinita Thomas, FDA 's acting joint commissioner for Greater Mumbai, adding there is currently no shortage of stents.
 
 While most hospitals told TOI the price change has already been brought into effect, industry insiders said the prices of cardiac packages are likely to see a 15%-25% jump in the days to come. “Everybody is watching what the others are doing. But costs of hospitalization, OT, consumables and other elements in an angioplasty package will see a surge,“ said a senior administrator of one of the city's leading hospitals.
 
 Many firms have flooded hospitals with first and second generation of drug eluting stents after removing the latest ones for `re-labelling'. Dr A V Ganesh Kumar, LH Hiranandani Hospital, Powai, said they have gone back to using second generation stents as procedures can't be put on hold. Explaining the crucial difference in generations, he said, “Previous stents had a thickness of 140 microns that sometimes found it difficult to trudge across thick blockages. The thickness of newer versions is almost half.“
 
 Abbott, one of the leading players, refuted charges of hoarding. “ Abbott continues to market our full range of coronary stents available in India.In certain cases, we initiated the process of relabeling to comply with the revised pricing notified by the government order of Feb 13,“ the spokesperson. The company said they have also asked distributors to make the bioresorbable vascular scaffold available at the ceiling prices. But most doctors said it was unavailable.
 
 Indian firms offer to fill vacuum
 
 Indian stent manufacturers have welcomed the government's decision to cap prices and offered to step in and fill the vacuum created by the withdrawal of high-end imported ones. But doctors are sceptical about switching to the Indian products overnight.
 
 “Our stents are accepted in so many countries. UK is one of our major consumers. The health minister of Brazil has an Indian stent.Yet Indian doctors continue to rely more on the imported kind,“ said Ganesh Sabath, president, Indian Stent Manufacturing Association.
 
 Cardiologists state the industry lacks scientific research.“There are hardly any back-up numbers. The follow-up results are mostly for six months to a year, whereas international stents pass through rigorous clinical trials and have follow-up data for two to five years,“ said Dr Dev Pahlanji, interventional cardiologist at  . Sabath said fears will be put to rest with a randomized study of 1,500 patients on in Spain, Italy, Poland, UK, Netherlands, Bulgaria and Belgium.
 
 
