PUNE: Looks like the Lohegaon airport will have to wait for a few more months before acquiring technology that will streamline air traffic management.

 The newly-introduced system is aimed at reducing the amount of time spent by aircraft in holding patterns while awaiting clearance to land. This will achieve the dual purpose of cutting down on passengers’ waiting time, and saving on fuel costs.
 
 Taking into account the comparatively light air traffic at the Lohegaon airport, the   (AAI) has decided to first focus on the bigger airports in the six metros, and bring the Centrally-controlled Air Traffic Flow Management (C-ATFM) system to Pune only in its second phase, which could be in six months’ time.
 
 “Pune has a small airport at the moment and there isn’t a huge flow of traffic, so the system is not needed there right now. At present, the system is in place at six metropolitan airports — Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad. Though the plan is to introduce the system across the country, it will come to Pune in the project’s second phase, after six months or so,” an AAI official said. 
 
 Work on C-ATFM — inaugurated by AAI chairman   on January 26 — has been in progress for some time now. 
 
 Going by the numbers, passenger and air traffic at the   has been on a steady uptick. With the recent addition of two new flights, the total number of scheduled flights operating at the airport is now 142. Airport authorities had said earlier that in 2016, there was a 23% increase in passenger traffic. In the year 2015-16, passenger footfall stood at nearly 52.54 lakh.
 
 Airport officials, however, say the system should be put in place sooner rather than later. 
 
 “The Pune airport is currently in expansion mode,” an airport official said. “Apart from the general flight movement at the Pune airport, there around 17 flights which are waiting to start for different destinations, and are waiting for approval in this connection. Furthermore, the airport has got around 15 acres of defence land, which will be used to build a new terminal building as well as a specialized area for international cargo operations.”
 
 The official stressed on the importance of keeping the Lohegaon airport up to date where facilities are concerned, as the proposed Purandar airport will be operational at the earliest by 2019. 
 
 “A lot of work needs to be done for the new project. Land acquisition has not started yet. Only when that is done will construction begin. The state government said the airport will be operational by 2019, but it is reasonable to expect a delay of a couple of years more. The existing airport will be continue to be used in the interim and as such, authorities should consider bringing in new facilities as soon as they are launched,” the official said. 
 
