NAVI MUMBAI: Seventeen-year-old   fan,   was having a great time at his idol's concert this Wednesday, till he felt thirsty. As he headed for one of the crowded free water counters at the venue, Shaan realized his iPhone-7 was missing from his jeans pocket.

 “Someone in the crowd flicked my   while I was struggling to get a glass of water. When I told the security guards at the concert my cellphone was missing, they asked me to report it at Nerul police station,“ recalled Shaan. After the show, when he reached the police station, he was surprised to find several other harried Beliebers there to report lost mobiles or wallets.
 
 Shaan's father Khatau Gomani, a builder, told TOI: “More and more youngsters reached the police station la ter that night with the same problem. One youngster, who had come all the way from Ahmedabad to see Bieber perform live, was in tears as he too lost an expensive mobile.“
 
 Shaan's cousin, Smita J, who was attending the concert with her family, also lost her mobile, though it was a relatively inexpensive model costing around Rs 6,000. “It is not really the cost of the mobile, but the fact that so many photos, videos and other important documents stored in the phone are lost, that really hurts,“ said Shaan.
 
 Gomani said he was certain a gang of pickpockets was at work at the event, stealing wallets and mobiles by taking advantage of the crowds.
 
 However, senior inspector at Nerul, Ashok Rajput said: “We will inquire if the mobile phones were stolen or simply lost during the rush at the venue.“ Rajput informed that so far the police have registered 13 cases of mobile phones being lost after the Justin Bieber show.
 
 Navi Mumbai-based activist   said: “It is surprising that despite such heightened security measures undertaken for the Justin Bieber show at Nerul, several mobiles and wallets happened to disappear. I have been told that most of these incidents took place near the food and water counters; which means that pickpockets must be active in these areas.“
 
