IDAR(SABARKANTHA): The distinct feature of mourning during   oneself with chains and knives -in memory of the martyrs of Karbala, has disappeared in the villages and towns of north Gujarat, particularly in Sabarkantha district.

 The Shia Jafri Mashaykhi Momin Jamat that takes the lead of Muharram processions in this area has deci ded not to indulge in shedding blood and injuring self to mourn the of sacrifice of Imam Hussain, the grandson of Prophet Muhammed. Instead, Muslims of these villages donate blood during this period, thus providing an alternative and constructive option that goes with the spirit of Islam.
 
 The practice of self-flagellation by the Shia Jafri community in Sabarkantha, Patan and Banaskantha districts disappeared three years ago. The maatam (mourning) takes place without the use of blades and flagellates. Towns and villages like Idar, Surpur, Kesharpura, Jethipura, Mangadh in Sabarkantha and villages near Siddhpur and Palanpur where Shia Jafri Mashaykhi Momins live organise blood donation camps.
 
 The inspiration for the change was the community's new religious leader,  , from Siddhpur.“Our Pir Sahab told us that there is no point in inflicting pain on self. Shedding blood in this manner is waste. He advised us to donate blood instead,“ said Sabirali Bhovaniya from Surpur.
 
 Ghulam Haider Dodiya from Kesharpura said that religious leaders have also asked them not to make too much noise during the procession. “We have stopped playing drums and music when we take out the tazia on Muharram. We must not disturb others during our observance,“ he said, pointing at the percussion instruments shelved in the community hall.
 
 Participation in blood donation is getting popular in the community. “Last year, we collected nearly 3,500 blood units. This year we have already collected 2,800 blood units, and the blood donation camps will continue during the time of mourning till Chehllum (the 40th day of mourning),“ said Akhlaq Ahmed, a young doctor involved in organizing such camps.
 
 Other Shia Muslims like Isnasari still practice flagellation in the city of Ahmedabad and elsewhere in Gujarat but they also organize blood donation camps during the 40-day-long period of mourning, said Akbarali  .
 
