BENGALURU:  , the traditional bull-taming sport in neighbouring Tamil Nadu, was once popular in some parts of Karnataka and was commonly held during  .

 Alarmed by the deaths which have accompanied the sport in the past, the Karnataka high court had banned it along with Kambala, a buffalo race held in the coastal districts of Udupi and  . The ban, however, doesn’t seem to have made a difference. Jallikattu is still conducted, albeit discreetly, in remote villages. 
 
 An incident reported in Koda and Hirekonati villages in Haveri district in 2013 was testimony to the fact that Jallikattu flourished in the state. Two persons were killed and several injured as young men attempted to tame bulls in a fit of bravado induced by a drink or two.
 
 “The incident prompted the district administration and police to tighten the screws on organizers. However, such events continue to take place in some places in a clandestine way,” said animal activists in Haveri and Dharwad. Reports of Jallikattu being held in Kolar, Chikkaballapur and other neighbouring districts had also surfaced.
 
 Cockfights and ram fights, however, continue unabated during festivals in some parts of the state, and usually see heavy betting.
 
 Dayanand Swami, chairman, Vishwa Prani Kalyana Mandal, said they often get reports of cockfights and ram fights held in rural areas but police usually don’t take action since they are under pressure from politicians who covertly support the sports to appeal to their voter base. The fights are banned under the Prevention of Cruelty of Animals Act, 1966, he added. Dr Anjana from People for Animals, Dharwad, said ram fights and cockfights are a major draw during festivals in north Karnataka.
 
 Cockfights usually feature two roosters, often fitted with razor-sharp blades on their legs, who fight till one of them dies or gets grievously injured. During the Dasara season, ram fights are witnessed in Dharwad and Gadag districts, where male adult sheep raised by the Savji or Somvanshya Sahasrarjun Kshatriya community are made to take part in the brutal competition. While the vanquished is sacrificed for the Dasara feast, the victor gets ‘life’ for another year to fight another battle.
 
 Perhaps in anticipation of such meticulous planning by cockfight organizers, Animal Welfare of India recently wrote to the Karnataka government last year, urging it to ensure the barbaric sport doesn’t take place.
 
 Though   usually sees an elaborate vegetarian spread, animal sacrifices take place in large numbers on the day. “Hundreds of sheep and fowl are sacrificed at a temple close to Dairy Circle in Bengaluru. We have tried our best to prevent it but in vain,” said V Umesh from Animal Welfare Board of India, Bengaluru. After a relentless legal fight, Swami Dayananda said the high court had directed the deputy commissioner of Chamarajnagar to take steps to prevent the mass animal sacrifice which occurs at a village in the district during Sankranti. But due to pressure from local politicians, the DC has restricted the ban to a one km radius around the temple, Swami alleged. “Now people conduct the sacrifice outside the banned area,” he added. He said every year around 1.5 crore animals are reportedly sacrificed during festivals and fairs in Karnataka; of these, at least 10 % are sacrificed during Sankranti.
 
