KOLKATA: The daring robbery at a jewellery showroom in Sonarpur that left one dead has put the spotlight on this once mofussil town, which has in the past decade metamorphosed into an extension of Kolkata with middle-class Bengalis migrating there in hordes from proper city areas -most of them with a fat bank balance after selling their homes at astronomical rates.

 This sudden influx of wealthy and educated people has changed the profile of the population in the belt drastically and according to law keepers, this has apparently triggered a shift in nature of crimes in the area with more incidents of robbery and snatching being reported now compared to complaints of theft, burglary and murder earlier.
 
 Days after a gang of seven robbers looted a jewellery shop and killed one of its owners in Sonarpur, TOI visited the area, located barely 3.2 kilometres from Garia and a little more than 20 kilometres from the heart of the city. Improved connectivity to EM Bypass, Metro links and Sonarpur's proximity to the main city has made this place one of the fastest growing real estate areas around the city.
 
 During a drive down the Sonarpur Road -a 4.1km stretch connecting   to Sonarpur station -one can notice a new housing complex standing tall after every 20 metres or so, lining both sides of the 20 feet road. To meet the needs of the new population, a shopping mall, a number of eateries, two branded coffee shops, management institutes, law colleges and even high-end nursing homes and diagnostic centres have come up -all in the past seven or eight years.
 
 According to officials of Rajpur-Sonarpur Municipality, the population has grown from 2.28 lakh in 1994 to 4.24 lakh in 2011. However, in the past six years, as per the data provided by South 24-Parganas police in their website, the population has increased by close to 2.5 lakh and the current metropolitan population stands at approximately 6.44 lakh.
 
 “We sold our house in Garia and purchased a flat in Sonarpur. It is very close to the city and the price was well within our reach,“ said Kakali Halder, who is pursuing her post graduate in medicines from SSKM hospital and me dical college and stays here with her husband.
 
  Pal, a retired IISCO executive, said he had bought a 1050-square feet 3 BHK flat at one of the housing complexes for a mere Rs 30 lakh three years ago after sel ling off his house at Asansol.
 
 An offiS cial associ ated with a big-ticket realty project said most of the buyers here pay in cash.
 
 But, with this, the profile and nature of crime in the area is also changing. According to  , a jewellery shop owner, the number of such shops here has shot up to 57 from only 6 in 2005.
 
 Unlike other places in Kolkata, Sonarpur criminals enjoy some advantages. It's out of the jurisdiction of   but has quick access to Kolkata. The entire area comes under Sonarpur police that has little infrastructure to oversee law and order.
 
