HYDERABAD: Barely three days after Andhra Pradesh Minister P Narayana's son lost his life in a SUV crash at Jubilee Hills, three IITians employed in top software firms in the city died and their friend suffered injuries in a road mishap at   on the Outer Ring Road when they were en route to attend a colleague's wedding at   on Friday morning.The victims are P Surya Teja, 27, Principal Software Engineer at ZeMoSo Technologies, Hyderabad, N Ravi Teja, 27, software engineer at Oracle, Hyderabad, T Rohit, 28, Software Development Engineer (SDE) 1, Amazon, Hyderabad, and Ch Kiran Kumar, 27, an engineering graduate from  , currently preparing for competitive exams.

 All the victims, who are alumni of IIT Kharagpur and belonged to the 2011 batch, started from Kondapur in Gachibowli in Surya Teja's   Verna (AP 16 BB 3888) car on Friday morning to attend a batchmate's wedding at Khammam.
 
 "At 7.15 am, when Surya Teja was trying to overtake a DCM van from the left side, the car brushed against the van. As a result, Surya Teja lost control over the vehicle and the car crashed into the left side railing of ORR at Tukkuguda at a high speed," Pahadi Shareef inspector P Laxmikanth Reddy said.
 
 After crashing into the railing, the car overturned. All the four passengers got stuck in the vehicle and passers-by later managed to pull out three of them while the fourth got entangled in the wreckage. Police said the youngsters were not wearing seatbelts and despite the air bags opening up due to the impact of the mishap, their lives could not be saved due to the high speed crash. Police said the driver of the car was not under the influence of alcohol while the driver of the DCM van, Dayanand, cannot be blamed for the accident. “The DCM van was travelling in the third lane of the four-lane ORR, which is legitimate. It appears that the engineers tried to overtake the van from the left side,“ the Pahadesharif inspector said.Police believe the car was travelling at about 120 kmph.
 
 A case was filed under secs 304-a and 337 of IPC. After postmortem, police handed over bodies to family members.
 
