Porvorim: Chief minister Manohar Parrikar on Monday said that offshore   will be closed down in three years’ time and moved to a land-based designated entertainment zone. He also said that no new licences would be issued to onshore casinos in the state, and that only five offshore casino would be allowed to operate in the   river.

  Parrikar said that the state government has appointed KPMG as a consultant to identify the land for the entertainment zone.
 
 Stating that the 2012 amendment to the Goa Gambling Act ensures that besides tourists nobody else is to be permitted on casinos, Parrikar said that in the next three months the government will stop Goans from going to casinos and that a gaming commissioner will be appointed to monitor casinos. However, there will be no bar on Goans working in casinos, he said detailing the broad guidelines of the casino policy.
 
 He also said the government would come out with a casino policy in the next three months before the next session and also issue a notification to make effective the amendment to the Act banning Goans from entering casinos.
 
 “These are the broad guidelines and the (casino) policy will be framed in next three months before the next assembly session,” Parrikar said, adding that depending on the policy, if required, the government will introduce an amendment to the Goa Gambling Act in the next assembly session. 
 
 Parrikar said that in the intervening three-year period, if a licence holder wants to make the shift to onshore casino in the entertainment zone he can do so, because at the end of the period the law will not permit offshore casinos.
 
 Pointing out that the Act empowers the government to place a cap on the number of casinos in particular areas, Parrikar said, “No more casinos will be permitted in the Mandovi river. At this stage we assure you that to cap the number of offshore casinos in the Mandovi river at five,” adding that, therefore, the sixth casino will never enter the river.
 
 “If the sixth offshore casinos fulfils all required conditions, then it can go somewhere else where the area permits it,” he said.
 
 Reacting to the opposition’s demand to phase out casinos from the state, Parrikar said, “We will think of phasing out casinos,” adding that the government will constitute a committee to examine whether to have a set clause to phase out casinos.
 
 
