Neil Nitin Mukesh, who is set to marry   in Udaipur on February 9, arrived in the City of Lakes on Sunday, for the pre-wedding functions that started yesterday. Accompanied by around 100 members of his family, the actor arrived sporting a sash that said, 'Groom to be', and was greeted by his father, singer Nitin Mukesh, who even danced with the folk artists at the venue. The wedding functions including mehendi, sangeet and pheras will take place at   and Spa. In a chat with us, Neil shared the details of his big fat destination wedding. He said, 'I always wanted to have a destination wedding. And my father also liked the idea, since this way, all my family members will be able to gather at one place other than Mumbai, and spend time together. Ours is a huge family and there will be around 500 people attending the wedding from different parts of the world. It's more like a family holiday for our big clan.' 

  
 While the wedding ceremony will be traditional, Neil has chosen a fairy-tale theme for the engagement which will be held today. Neil said, 'I love the way Indian weddings are hosted. We have kept everything traditional, except our engagement ceremony. Since I was born in a family with a filmy background, I wanted to give a fairy-tale twist to my engagement ceremony. The dress code is tuxedos for men and evening gowns for women. My girl will be walking down the aisle wearing a flowy gown. I have grown up watching English films and had this fantasy!' The ceremony will be followed by a musical evening, with   belting out English numbers. 
 
  
  Neil with his dad Nitin Mukesh and mother Nishi Mukesh
 
  
 
  While the family members have been preparing for sangeet ceremony to be held tomorrow, Neil and Rukmini have decided to do an impromptu dance, and didn't take a choreographer's help. 'Both of us decided to not have a choreographed performance. Everyone should see how naturally we gel together,' Neil said. 
 
  The wedding functions started yesterday with a Sufi night; the engagement and cocktail will be held today, followed by the mehendi function with the Mewari mela theme, and sangeet tomorrow. The wedding on Thursday is packed with activities like a rain dance party, a football and volleyball match between Neil 11 Vs Rukmani 11, followed by sehrabandi at 3pm, the baraat procession at 4pm and finally the pheras late evening.
 
  
 
 
