They say Mumbai is crowded, competitive, forever humid, and offers super spicy food. All of which is true, let’s be honest. What is it, then, that lures batches after batches of international students for their internship programmes to this city? To find out, we met with some Australian undergrads from the University of New South Wales, Sydney. They opened up about why they chose India over other places, their experiences and their takeaways, among other things…

 
  
  
 Never mind the rush, the youngsters were more than happy to share a ‘tuk-tuk’ ride and even take the train. Suhaniya Chelliah, a student of media and advertising, says, “We did take a train ride but it was over the weekend, as we were advised the same. Thankfully, it wasn’t as crowded as we’d expected it to be. However, it was strange to see the doors wide open and people hanging out of it. Seems like people enjoy it.” Adds Lori Youmshajekian, a media and advertising student, “I took a share rickshaw in Bandra. It was a fun way to beat the long queue for it, otherwise.”
 
 
 The youngsters, who were staying in Bandra, were pretty excited when they came to know that the place is home to some of the biggest Bollywood celebs. Ben Smagarinsky, an economics student, says, “I’ve seen and heard so much about Bollywood. In fact, towards the end of our programme, we even went for Ranbir Kapoor’s latest movie to a nearby theatre. Bollywood movies are so different from our films. The theatrical experience, music, all adds up to the zing.”
 Steven Savage, an engineering student, adds, “I did a lot of research before landing here. It’s just a coincidence that we were right next to   and Salman Khan’s locality. We even clicked pictures outside Mannat and Galaxy. It was a fun experience.”
 
 
 
 Mumbai’s pace may scare many, but that’s exactly what drew the students to the program. As Ellese Ha, a student of commerce and economics, says, “Australia is a laidback place. I wouldn’t prefer something like that when I want to work. Mumbai, on the other hand, is bustling and offers a good pace for working. Also, I am interested in India’s growth trajectory.”
 Henry Qiwei Liang, another student, elaborates, “I am studying business and the Indian economy is one of the fastest growing economies in the world. With the implementation of GST, the situation here looks really good. There’s immense scope for growth and development and the country is sure to become a far more dominant economy. Also, the Indian culture is great and the food, the movies — the whole package excites me. People here go out of the way to help you, which I absolutely love. ”
 
 
 
 For law student Othilia Nguyen-Le, Mumbai’s street shopping experience was the highlight. “I went to Bandra Hill Road and found some great dresses and footwear there. Also, post our presentation, we headed to  . I picked up some fancy jhumkis, neckpieces and scarves. One of the friends I made here advised me to bargain, and I didn’t even flinch before haggling with the shopkeepers here!” she laughs. 
 
 
 
 From Haji Ali to the Elephanta Caves, the call of adventure had them on their toes all through their stay. And if you thought that the charm of monsoon and Lonavla makes sense only to Mumbaikars, think again. 
 Brendan Wilson, a student of economics, says, “To beat the humidity, we went to Lonavla for a day-trip. It was a lot of fun as we were able to get away from the city and experience the monsoon and the greens in their full glory.” Adds Henry, “Mumbai rains are famous and I am glad I got a chance to witness it first-hand. It can get a li’l crazy, though. Also, stepping out in the traffic for the first few days was scary and chaotic, but once you get used to that, with a rickshaw, you manage just alright.”
 
 
  
  
 The Indian spices and strong flavours are not meant for the faint-hearted. Says Lori, “Even the instant noodle here is spicy! However, I have enjoyed sampling the different types of street foods such as pani puri and dosa. For someone who doesn’t enjoy spice much, these were delicious and not too high on the spice radar!” In addition, Ellese revealed that dal-khichadi, Indian thali and rasgulla were her go-to fare.
 We spotted Steven, along with a group of his friends, gorging on some succulent kebabs at a popular SoBo joint. “I’m very experimental when it comes to food. And Indian food is so rich with its spices and flavours. I couldn’t help but try a few of these dishes. Travelling diarrhoea, excuse me!” he giggles. 
 
 
