USGAO: At 7.30am everyday, 15 mothers report to   at  , along with their children. While the students enter their respective classrooms, the mothers get to work at the school kitchen. By 10am, the unresistable aroma of piping hot bhajji made from a cereal, carrot and beetroot, and freshly-baked chapatis fills the adjoining school hall.
 
  In the following half-an-hour, 700 students from Classes I to VIII, who are eligible to receive midday meals under the central government scheme, relish the sumptious preparation. But the meals at St Joseph High School are also open to students of Classes IX and X and the nursery section, who join in after often being unable to resist the temptation.
  
  “The aroma of the food being cooked below enters the classrooms at times and the students cannot wait to eat the midday meals,” said the school’s manager,  .
  
  Prior to 2011, the scene was quite different at St Joseph High School. A major portion of the midday meals served by the self-help group allotted by the state to the institute had to be returned as the kids did not seem to enjoy it. There was even a case of food poisoning reported at the school.
  
  It is this that led   to prop the idea that parents themselves could try cooking hot meals within the school premises.
  
  “The self help groups appointed by the government provide midday meals to 2,000 or more students from different schools. This leads to negligence like compromising on the cleanliness and quality,” Fr Lobo said.
  
  The school then helped the parents to form the  .
  
  “But the officials were reluctant to allow the parents to cook the meals. I somehow managed to get it approved,” Fr Lobo said. The mothers’ self-help group then began to receive state aid for midday meals and they started out by serving pulao made from basmati rice, a meal that left the children licking their fingers.
  
  “We now provide the different bhajji preparations as prescribed by the directorate of education. But in addition to the prescribed pulses, we add carrots, beetroots, french beans etc to improve the nutritional value of the meal. The aid paid by the state is now paid to us, but we make negligible profits due to the additional and good quality ingredients we use,” said the self-help group president,  . Not to mention, the labour they put in of five hours.
  
  Pereira is among the mothers whose children have already completed their schooling, but she continues to put in the five hours a day so that students do not have to leave the school premises to venture onto the dangerous highway traffic outside for a midday snack.
  
  “Parents are happy that their children are now eating vegetables like carrots, which, I am told, they do not eat at home and the wastage of the cooked meal is almost zero, unlike before,” Fr Lobo said.
