PANAJI: Hopes that the pay parking system in the capital would bring discipline to traffic in Panaji have long been dashed. Now it appears that the Corporation of the   (CCP) has also been denied precious revenue. While  , the company that won the contract to implement pay parking, continues to collect parking fees from motorists, it has failed to pass on the benefit to   since the day the pay parking system started. The company now owes CCP nearly Rs 25 lakhs.

 With just over two months left for the contract to expire, CCP has now decided that enough is enough and has issued a demand notice to Straight Deal Services seeking recovery of the outstanding dues of Rs 24.75 lakhs by February 28.
 
 The Margao-based contractor has failed to pay the dues since May 2016, when the pay parking contract was implemented and has instead made counter-allegations that their earnings were lower than estimated and that CCP had failed to demarcate parking areas — allegations that the CCP has denied.
 
 With the contractor unscrupulously collecting pay parking fees across the city, the civic body is likely to take possession of the bank guarantee provided by the contractor and simultaneously file legal recovery proceedings in court, CCP officials said. CCP has also sought 9% interest on the pending dues.
 
 “It is revealed from records that you have failed and neglected to pay outstanding dues of Rs 24,75,249 plus interest as on date. No relaxation in payment shall be given to you as already 50% rebate has been granted to you from May 2016 to October 2016,” commissioner   said in the letter addressed to Sham Rajadhyax, partner of Straight Deal Services.
 
 According to the contract, Straight Deal Services had to pay monthly charges of Rs 5.25 lakh for the tenure of the contract from May 2016 till April 2017. Based on a representation made by Straight Deal Services, a 50% rebate was given to the contractor from May 2016 to October 2016 and the firm was asked to pay Rs 2.5 lakh per month for the six months.
 
 As per CCP records, the contractor paid Rs 2 lakh for the May-October period, but has failed to pay any amount since August 2016.
 
