DEHRADUN:   has emerged as the most high-profile district in Uttarakhand with both the newly-inducted CMs of Uttarakhand and UP,   and   respectively, hailing from here. While Rawat is from Khairasain village, Adityanath hails from Panchur village of Pauri. In addition, four former chief ministers and a host of officials involved in the country's security hail from the hill district which lies in the western part of the state. 

 The first CM that the district produced was Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna, who hailed from Bughani village in Khirshu tehsil near Pauri, and became CM of un-divided Uttar Pradesh in 1973. Subsequently, Major General (retd) Bhuwan Chandra Khanduri who hails from Margadna village in Pauri, became CM in 2007, followed by  , who belongs to Pinani village in the district. Later, Vijay Bahuguna, son of Hemwati Nandan, also served as CM of Uttarakhand from 2012 to 2014. Besides, national security advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval who is from Banelsyun village, RAW chief Anil Dhasmana who hails from Toli village, and Army chief Gen Bipin Rawat - belonging to Saina village -- are the other success stories of the district.
 
 Incidentally, the district has also given the maximum number of ministers in the newly formed Trivendra Rawat government - Harak Singh Rawat who represents the Kotdwar seat, Satpal Maharaj, MLA of Chaubattakhal, and Dhan Singh Rawat who won from the Srinagar seat.
 
 What is it about the place that makes it the breeding ground of success stories? "In general, people of Pauri are very hard-working and committed, which is why, they have touched such heights. Not only in politics, people from here have excelled in many fields like the defence services as well as bureaucracy," said Dinesh Rawat, district panchayat member of Kaljikhal block in Pauri, adding that the people of Pauri "are very politically aware compared to other parts of Uttarkahand. " Kotdwar resident Anil Maindola concurs, saying that the region can easily be termed "the intellectual capital of the state." However, he adds that the district has not got the attention it deserved from successive governments. 
 
