AURANGABAD: Day One of the HSC exams for the   in some centres, especially those located in the remote areas of Aurangabad division.

 However, the official records showed that not a single such case was detected across 369 examination centres in the region on Tuesday, raising questions over the vigilance measures put in place at the ground level.
 
 A random visit by ToI to one examination centre in Phulambri taluka of Aurangabad district exposed the so-called strict vigilance by the authorities. Outsiders were seen providing chits to some candidates inside the centre, and right in front of the vigilance staff.
 
 Similar scenes reportedly prevailed at some other examination centres in rural parts. 
 
 Vandana Vahul, acting secretary with Aurangabad division of Maharashtra state board for secondary and higher secondary examination, said the board has been taking serious note of feedback received from stakeholders during actual conduct of the examination.
 
 “We will pull up education officers and block education officers from the areas where copy cases and other malpractices are reported despite planned measures. The message is loud and clear that the state board has zero-tolerance policy towards malpractices,” she said. 
 
 It may be noted that the Aurangabad divisional commissionerate had specifically asked for installation of CCTV cameras at all the examination centres, but compliance on the part of colleges could not be ascertained. 
 
 Aurangabad division of the board has formed 35 flying squads in five districts under its jurisdiction, besides separate vigilance teams by the revenue department and district administration. 
 
 The parent community has taken a very strong objection to rampant copying cases under the nose of the state board. “Such wrongdoings are harmful for the careers of not only those indulging in malpractices, but also honest students as they get badly disturbed, ” said  . 
 
 “Rampant malpractices raise serious doubts over the entire vigilance machinery, including those deployed by the revenue department,” he added.
 
 Meanwhile, the first day of the nearly month-long HSC examination passed off without any major untoward incidents. 
 
 A total of 1,62,337 candidates have registered for the exams from Aurangabad division, which compromises five districts namely Jalna, Parbhani, Hingoli, Beed and Aurangabad.
 
