

 The death sentence awarded to the alleged Indian spy, former naval officer  , by a Pakistan military Field General Court martial (FCGM), is hardly going to do anything to improve Pakistan’s already very tense relations with India.
 
 Given the state of ties between India and Pakistan, there is little chance of normal diplomatic channels working to resolve this matter, even less so given the hype and hysteria around Jadhav that has been manufactured by the media corps of the  . 
 
 India will therefore have to do something out of the ordinary if it is serious about getting Jadhav back.
 
 The case against Jadhav is based on flimsy evidence. Other than his “confession”, which was almost certainly forced out of him and which would have zero value in any court, which wasn’t a kangaroo court, there is little else against him.
 
 Top Pakistani officials, including Sartaj Aziz, have admitted as much on at least two occasions in the past.
 
 And yet, if the Pakistanis have decided to hang him, then there is something more to it than meets the eye, more so because the norm in cases like this is to not take an extreme step.
 
 The timing of this sentence suggests that the Pakistanis are trying to send a signal to India. 
 
 A day or two before Jadhav was condemned in the ‘farcical’ proceedings, there was a report that a former Pakistan Army official — most likely an   man who was indulging in some nefarious activity — had gone missing in Nepal.
 
 The alacrity with which the news made headlines in Pakistan’s embedded media was an indication that the dirty tricks department of ISI was spooked by the officer going missing.
 
 The fear in Pakistan was that he was picked up by the Indian intelligence to be used as a bargaining chip for Jadhav. In an attempt to preempt what they expected to follow, the Pakistanis floated a cock-and-bull story about the officer going for a job interview to  .
 
 It is tempting to speculate about a probable link between the missing Pakistani officer and Jadhav’s sentence. If indeed there is such a link, then clearly the Pakistanis are upping the ante and signalling that a possible swap between the two is not on offer.
 
 Assuming the Pakistani officer is a high-value person, the Pakistanis are sending a message that is tough and uncompromising, hoping in the process to drive a very hard bargain.
 
 The problem, however, is that the Pakistan army, perhaps deliberately, could have overplayed its hand by hyping up the Jadhav sentence to a point that it will be difficult to back off and do a deal.
 
 Even if a deal has to be done, the Pakistan army will expect the politicians to carry the can for such a deal while they come out smelling of roses. But given that this is an election year in Pakistan, no politician will like to risk a spy swap deal that leaves him open to accusations of a sell-out to India.
 
 Chances are, therefore, that there will be no quick closure to the Jadhav affair. What remains to be seen is how, in the meantime, India ratchets up the pressure and what ‘consequences’ await Pakistan for its bloody-mindedness on this issue.
 
 
 
 
