CHENNAI: About 200 vegetable and flower vendors in Madurai have banded together to create a unique  . Showing the power of collective bargain in a freelance economy, these vendors in Mattuthavani have convinced their banker   to collect loan EMIs every day. “Irrespective of whether it is a one-year or a three-month loan, we pay them on a daily basis. We spoke to many banks at length, and finally succeeded in convincing them to create a new loan collection model just for us,“ said Pookadai Ramachandran, president of the Madurai Flower Market.

 Such instances of collective bargaining are the way forward for independent workers, said justice Chandru K, citing instances of how auto-rickshaw drivers in   unionised and got better social security coverage under the state labour laws. While the concept of freelancers contract workers has been around for decades in the South, the mushrooming of startups like Swiggy, Ola, Uber, Amazon,  , Delhivery etc. has led to en masse employment. 
 
 This 'úberization' of the workforce works well with the millennial generation that is hungry for freedom and better pay, but the gaps and loopholes that it leaves are something that social workers and governments are yet to assess. From delivery boys to drivers, a major setback for those choosing the path of freelancing is the financial instability and job uncertainty. “Initially, I was drawn to Ola, because of fellow drivers who were earning more than Rs 1 lakh a month. But, after the incentives tapered off, it has become increasingly difficult to work for the taxi aggregator," said N Prasanth (name changed), a city-based driver in his 30s. Just as some youngsters are moving to more stable work environments, drivers are also now finding it more rewarding to work for players like UTOO, which offers them multiple finance options, housing and therapy.
 
 As per industry estimates, around 40% of India's workforce is temporarycontractual, particularly in sectors like manufacturing, textile or automobile. For other sectors where the percentage of white collared employees is higher, it is at 5-10%.
 
 Entrepreneur and consultant Arul Senniappan says, “Initially the freedom seems glamorous, but later people choose to work fulltime.“ At the home service startup that he mentors, Senniappan says he has seen many youngsters jump ship from prominent home service startups like   and HouseJoy, which aggregate services of plumbers, electricians, beauticians and seamstresses.
 
 "Globally, governments and policymakers are focusing on reforming social security systems, so that independent workers have access to an adequate safety net," said  , founder, Flexing It, which sees 10% of its 46,000 independent professionals based in TN cities.
 
