GURUGRAM: More than 18 years after they were bifurcated, the two power utilities of Haryana — Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam ( ) and Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam ( ) — are likely to merge into a single entity.

 Sources told TOI the Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission ( ) has mooted such a proposal and will soon send it to the state government for its approval. The proposed merger is likely to address a string of issues related to shortage of workforce and management efficiency in the two power discoms.
 
 According to sources, the proposal was mooted in a meeting of the State Advisory Committee, held in Panchkula on March 20, under the chairmanship of HERC chairman Jagjeet Singh. “During the meeting, it was proposed that the two power utilities must be merged. Almost every state has a single distribution company,” sources said.
 
 “Officials present in the meeting were of the view that such a merger will facilitate efficient management with uniform policies across the state. It was also agreed upon that the process of merger needs to be expedited. Formalities pending at the end of HERC will be hastened and the matter is likely to be referred to state government for a final decision” sources said.
 
 One of the concerns, sources claimed, was that around 80% of the workforce at both the power utilities will retire within the next three to four years. “Both discoms are likely to face an enormous shortfall of manpower. Where will they get all the human resource from? So they have decided to merge both of them so that human resources could be shuffled,” sources said.
 
 Currently, both the utilities are headed by IAS officers. In case of a merger, the single power   will have only one head. “There is another dimension pertaining to legal issues. Lakhs of rupees are spent every year to pursue legal cases regarding both the discoms. The merger will address the legal issues under one single banner,” sources said.
 
 When contacted, Shatrujeet Kapoor, managing director of DHBVN, could not immediately comment on the proposed merger.
 
 
