A freshers' talent hunt,   2017, was organised recently to give a platform to the freshers of   to showcase their talents. First year students were excited to show off their talents on the stage. The event was inaugurated by politician  , who gave a motivating speech to encourage students to strive hard and contribute in nation building.

  
  Varun Gandhi (BCCL)
 
 
  
 At the event, Varun said, "In order to build the nation, citizens participation must be encouraged, which can be done in three steps. Like Morocco, a petition system should be formed whereby people can assert their suggestions. Monitoring of government schemes should be done by citizens and the system should be made equal." He also stressed upon the importance of social entrepreneurship. He further added, "We live in an amazing age. Older generations didn’t have internet and therefore had to struggle hard to get basic rights. Chipko movement took years to yield results, but last year in Bangalore hundreds of trees were saved because of WhatsApp. It is an unequal world, but it is becoming equal generation by generation."
 
 
  
  Dr  , acting Principal, PGDAV College (BCCL)
 
  
 Varun's address was followed by performances of the different cultural societies of the college. Raaga, the music society of PGDAV, performed a medley followed by solo performances by the group members. Students Karishma and Abhishek performed a fusion dance on the song 'Shape Of You'.
 
 
  
  Students Abhishek and Karishma performed a fusion to 'Shape Of You' at the event
 
 
  Akanksha Singh, a BA second year student, said, "It was an amazing experience. We had a lot of fun while volunteering for the event. This year, Exploranza is being conducted at a larger scale. Last year, our auditorium was under construction and therefore it wasn't this big. Even this time, the event was scheduled to be held at the college ground, but since it’s warm it was shifted to the auditorium at the last moment." The newly elected union of the college also took oath at the event.
 
 
  
  Conundrum, the western music society of PGDAV College, performing at the event (BCCL)
 
  
  (BCCL)
 
 
  
 
