CHANDIGARH: With cricketer-turned-politician   taking almost six months in deciding between the Congress and AAP, before finally joining the former, the big question is if his entry, barely 20 days before polling, would still benefit the party.

  president   had called Sidhu a “force multiplier” recently but it remains to be seen if Sidhu will be able to do justice to his role of star campaigner so close to the elections, especially when he has also decided to contest the Amritsar East seat in place of his wife. At the same time, a section of Congress leaders is not happy with the way Sidhu dithered and ignored the right time to contribute to the party’s campaign.
 
 Asked what would the party would gain from Sidhu’s entry, Amarinder had told TOI in an interview last week, “Any party gains if someone known joins in. In his case, he has two plus points. For one, he has played cricket and Indian is crazy about cricket. So he’s known. Secondly, he’s into this comedy show. I have never watched it and I am told it’s a popular show. He has also been an MP twice.”
 
 The hype around Sidhu’s “comeback” in Punjab politics, which rose with his resigning from Rajya Sabha on July 18, 2016, has waned considerably. The fact that he was seen cozying up to both AAP and the Congress, in what was termed by his rivals as an attempt “to strike the best deal”, has not helped the situation much. AAP sources had revealed that apart from the deputy CM’s post if the party came to power, he had also sought a commitment that candidates of his recommendation will be fielded on certain seats.
 
 While the equation that Sidhu develops with Amarinder will be interesting to watch, the second rung of leadership in the party will also have to come to terms with his entry. Though Amarinder has denied that deputy CM’s post has been offered to Sidhu, there has never been any statement to the contrary from the party’s top brass in Delhi.
 
 On Sunday, Amarinder spoke to Sidhu on phone to welcome him into the party fold, saying it was “great news and his joining would further strengthen the Congress in Punjab”.
 
 Sidhu, who hails from Patiala, became MP for the first time contesting on BJP ticket from Amritsar in 2004. He later successfully contested the Amritsar byelection and again retained the seat in the 2009 general elections.
 
 In April 2016, he took oath as a member of the Rajya Sabha, but resigned after three months. Soon thereafter he also quit from the BJP and with the aim of fighting all anti-Punjab forces, formed a new political front – Awaaz-e-Punjab, along with former hockey player Pargat Singh.
 
