MUMBAI:  , 46, has covered himself in glory. The state's first BJP chief minister has delivered the 
  in the BMC after a bitter break-up with  , till now its senior ally in the civic body.

 "We lost a few seats by a narrow margin, otherwise we could have not only surpassed Shiv Sena, but secured a clear majority. It is a victory for our campaign against corruption in the BMC. People of Mumbai are keen for a transparent and clean administration in BMC. 
  will be our priority," said Fadnavis, who the Sena never forgets to point out is 
  , on Thursday.
 
 He got a free hand from his party and has delivered with aplomb, with the BJP either winning or emerging as the single largest party in all the 10 corporations, except Thane and Mumbai. "We will gain control over most of the zilla parishads and municipal corporations. It was for the first time that BJP has made inroads in rural parts of the state," said a senior BJP cabinet member.
 
 Fadnavis took the risk of challenging the Sena on its home turf and has come out on tops. From the day elections were announced, it was believed that BJP would reach an electoral understanding with Shiv Sena for the civic as well as zilla parishad polls. The CM himself was hopeful of an alliance. The first blow came when the 
  - fewer than in 2012 - to BJP against its demand of 115. Even before BJP could discuss the proposal, 
  .
 
 Once he got over the shock, Fadnavis decided to teach the Sena a lesson in Mumbai. He plunged into the campaign, and pegged it to transparency. In rally after rally, he explained to the people of Mumbai the corruption in BMC in allotment of contracts for roads, garbage transport, and de-silting. Fadnavis seemed to have succeeded in convincing the people of Mumbai that there was a lack of transparency in policy decisions taken by Shiv Sena and all decisions were taken only for the benefit of a few chosen contractors.
 
 "We succeeded in our campaign strategy. We emphasised on the need to implement Prime Minister  's agenda of providing clean and transparent administration," said Fadnavis.
 
 
