DEHRADUN: The rate of retreat of   has slowed down to 11 metres since 2008 from the maximum of 35 metres recorded in 1974, according to experts at the Almora-based GB Pant National Institute of Himalayan Environment and Sustainable Development (GBPNIHESD) who conducted a study of the glacier located in Uttarkashi from 2008 till 2016. While the slowing down of the rate of recession is good news, since it means that the glacier is not melting at a rate fast enough, scientists said that the worrying part is that the base of the 30-km long glacier is thinning and has become more fragile.

 Kireet Kumar, scientist at GBPNIHESD, who was involved in the study, told TOI, “Gangotri is a gigantic glacier extending over a total area of 144 sq km. Because of its huge size, it takes longer to show any change with regard to climatic patterns. But there are instances of indirect impact which have been caused due to the prevalence of small glaciers situated above Gangotri. When temperatures rise, these glaciers melt fast due to their small size and the water generated from them flows down and seeps into the crevasses of the   glacier, causing them to melt from the bottom.”
 
 He added that since the small glaciers are situated on the right side of the Gangotri glacier, it is the right side of the base that is most impacted. “We are not much concerned about the receding of the glacier since it is not so drastic. Our concern is more about the mass loss. Due to thinning of its shape, Gangotri glacier has become vulnerable to fragmentation which would ultimately lead to breakage and loss of water.”
 
 The scientists are yet to work out the short-term and long-term implications that the thinning of the base will have on the water flow from the glacier. Eminent environmentalist Chandi Prasad Bhatt, one of the pioneers of the Chipko movement, told TOI that the findings need to be carefully studied and understood since they involve the water flow of the Ganga river. “Scientists should conduct precise studies on how the receding and mass thinning of the glacier will impact the water outflow. Generally, higher snowfall will curb the receding and loss of volume in a glacier while less snowfall will indicate otherwise. But these are factors that need to be properly studied since they concern the important issue of water availability which affects people’s lives directly.”
 
 Acknowledging that more studies need to be conducted before a conclusion can be drawn on the impact of the receding and base-thinning of the glacier, DP Dobhal, scientist at the Dehradun-based Wadia  , said, “Gangotri glacier is a dynamic structure -- tectonic activities below its surface keep happening and creating fissures. Therefore, there are multiple factors that impact its health like its gradient, bed slopes, volume, sources, etc, each of which have to be studied in detail before arriving at a firm conclusion.”
 
