PUNE: The city police have served an externment order to a   of house break-ins and thefts are pending.

 This is the third instance of externing a woman in Pune and   over the last 10 years. Asha Matin Qureshi (23), from Walhekarwadi in Chinchwad, has been barred from entering Pune city and district limits for a year, according to the order issued on Saturday by deputy commissioner of police (DCP), zone III, Ganesh Shinde.
 
 The police action comes as part of the preventive measures, including externment, against criminals on record in view of the impending Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad civic polls. “We have externed Qureshi to prevent her from creating any law and order issue in the twin industrial township,” Shinde told TOI. The police are also keeping an eye on her three aides, he added.
 
 Prior to Qureshi’s externment, there have been only two instances one each from Bhosari (in May 2011) and Swargate (in August 2013), wherein women criminals on record were externed from Pune city and district limits by the police.
 
 “Usually, she would approach a housing society without a security guard, on the pretext of searching for job as a domestic help or pretending to deal in scrap materials. After identifying a locked house, she and her accomplices would break into it sometime in the afternoon or at night,” he said.
 
 Shinde said, “Qureshi and her three aides,   (28),   (21) and Sunil Kudale (24), have a history of criminal activity. The cases are recorded in Pimpri, Chinchwad, Wakad and other police stations.” Talware and Kasbe hail from Chinchwad, while Kudale is a resident of Pimpri.
 
 Shinde said, “The police had arrested Qureshi and her three aides in a house break-in and theft case in March last year. Prior to that, similar cases had been registered against her. We had arrested her on eight different occasions previously. She was out on bail when we served her the externment order.”
 
 Earlier, Chinchwad police’s senior inspector Vitthal Kubade had forwarded a detailed proposal to the DCP’s office, recommending externment action against Qureshi. The DCP is the competent authority for issuing externment orders based on the concerned police station’s report. 
 
 According to Kubade, Qureshi, a school dropout, got married when she was a teenager. She hails from a poor family in Chinchwad and was deserted by her husband before she could settle down. Soon after she started stealing valuables from flats.
 
