At a time where Biennale and art exhibitions are alleged to be corporate affairs, indigenous artistes are finding it tough to get their work out there. But talent will transcend all barriers, says 57-year-old, Aluva-based artist  , the architect of the 52 ft tall  , reportedly the world’s largest   idol.

 With a portfolio that includes famed statues such as the 51 ft tall Mulikeshwara at Mysore Ganapathy Sachidananda Ashram and   at UC College, Aluva, Ramachandran has always pushed the boundaries in terms of what a sculptor can do. As he gears up for another massive creation –   – in Guruvayoor, we catch up with the artist to know more about his work.
  
 
 
 I joined UC College as a student when I was 36. The institution had just started the archaeology course and my friends, knowing my passion, pushed me to enrol. Learning about historic statues, how they were made and their purpose sparked my interest in them and I did research for several years afterwards to incorporate Indian systems such as Vastu Shastra into the sculptures. I also studied about siddhas and herbs, which I have used in my works.
  
 
 
 I have taken inspiration from mythology for my words. Maraprabhu in Guruvayoor is based on one such myth that Guruvayoorappan once appeared to say that he is also called Maraprabhu, when his devotee praised him with that name instead of the commonly used Amaraprabhu. Also, I have tried to infuse positive energy into people with my works. I like to believe they have healing power as most of the components are made from earthy elements. For the 54 ft tall  , the iron arch enclosing the Maraprabhu idol, in Guruvayoor, I have used medicinal ghee based on Sahasrayogam, the text on ayurvedic formulation. A person’s life is filled with conflicts, internal and otherwise. My aim as an artiste is to make them pause at least for a second and forget about their worries.
  
 
 
 It’s important for a sculptor to get the mathematics right – from the mixing of the components to how the statue is erected. If you stand in front of the Maraprabhu, it would look like it’s leaning towards you but the statue is actually perpendicular to its base. The slant is only an optical illusion. Similarly, Mahaganitham is another tribute to geometry and how much it enhances an artiste’s work. 
  
 
 
 I strive for perfection in all my work and once it’s completed, I detach from it. Neither do I attach my name to it, nor do I take credit. Other artists do it, probably because it might be their way of projecting their individual ideas to the world. But for me, my work has always been about nature. A lot of people collaborate while working on a creation and it also benefits many others. So, there’s collective consciousness involved. Working on the divine sculptures is itself a massive achievement for me. I was thrilled to work on Maraprabhu with close to 1,000 people, who had all put in all their effort for three continuous months to complete it. All my works are public property; I will never stake claim for them.
  
 
 Many have asked me if I’m not recognised enough. But for me, my work will always last more than me and that is recognition enough. You can’t look back and be complacent about your achievements; you have to move forward. Today, when I stand in front of the Maraprabhu, I feel humbled. I can’t complain that I am not paid enough or haven’t achieved enough fame. The struggle – financial, physical or emotional – is what life is all about and personally that is what makes me or any other artist more creative. If I had fortune and fame, maybe I would be an uninspired slob for all you know. I have never been adversely affected by what contemporary artists have been doing because I believe my work is unique. I find peace through my work.
  
 
 Mohanlal was shooting for his movie Agnidevan in Guruvayoor in 1995. At that time, the Maraprabhu statue was just inaugurated, and he used to frequently pass the site during the shoot schedule. He tracked me down one day and told me that he has seen several statues all over the world but none attracted him as much as the Maraprabhu. It was great to hear that from him. That day we talked for about four hours about the mythology, the construction and also spiritual connect of the statue. He then asked me to build a 15ft version for his house in Chennai which I did. He has now been using the miniature versions of it for Vishukani. The miniatures are all made keeping Vastu Shastra in mind and the belief is that it energises the environment.
  
 
 I am next planning a 108 ft Akala Mrithyu Moksha Stupa, which is aimed as an obeisance to the people who died as a result of vengeance, brutality and war. It will have one lakh human faces, expressing different emotions and will be made in clay. I have already created a miniature of it in Ganapathy Sachidananda Ashram in Mysore and have now submitted an application to the Ministry of Culture for the bigger version.
 In Guruvayoor, I am creating Maha Gajapathy, which is a massive statue of Ganapathy sitting atop 108 elephants. The Devaswom Board has allotted me the space now. I am now waiting for the fund to source the material to start work. The plan is to make it in cast iron.
 
