PATNA: Come Sankranti on January 14, and ‘tilkut’ traders laugh all the way to bank. This year, however, they say that cash crunch caused by   has adversely affected the sales.

 With the festival, also known ‘dahi-chura’ day, only a few days away, many shops selling sesame products like ‘tilkut‘, ‘tilpapdi’, ‘til laddoo’, ‘rewadi’ and ‘til gajak’ have come up in the city. Several old sweet shops of Patna have also hired ‘tilkut’ makers to make the delicacies so as to sell them from their shops.
 
 “A week or so ahead of the Sankranti till last year, my shop used to be chock-a-block with ‘tilkut’ buyers. This year, however, you can see for yourself we are virtually sitting idle. The sales have dropped by almost 30%,” said   Kumar who runs a sweet shop opposite the Patna Museum. 
 
 Pramod Kumar, who is the manager at Basant’s shop, attributes the poor sales to, apart from demonetisation, the fact that makeshift ‘tilkut’ shops have mushroomed in the state capital. “Till, say, five years back, there were few shops around. But now ‘tilkut’ is selling at every nook and corner of the city. Many sellers have reduced the price at the cost of quality. Though our old patrons come to us, many go for cheaper options,” he said on Monday.
 
 Binay Kumar Gupta, who has been selling ‘tilkut’ on Boring Road for 32 years, also complains of fall in demand. “I am into ‘tilkut’ trade only for two months in the winter. The rest of the year I run a general store to earn a living,” he said and recalled he would sell at least 35 to 40kg of ‘tilkut’ every day on the eight-ten days in the run-up to January 14, but he was not seling more than 20kg every day this time.
 
 Gupta had feared cash crunch would hit the sales. That’s why he applied to a bank for a swipe (point of sale) machine soon after the demonetisation was announced on November 8 last year. Almost two months on, he has not been issued the machine and, as such, he has to return the customers who want to make payments through credit or debit cards.
 
 ‘Tilkut’ made of jaggery is more in demand than that made of sugar, according to Gupta. At his shop,   was selling at Rs 260-320/kg while the ‘khowa’ stuff was priced at Rs 380/kg. ‘Tilkut’ stuffed with dry fruits were also seeling at Gupta’s shop at Rs 600/kg.
 
 
