COIMBATORE: A 45-year-old realtor, who impersonated as a property owner and   two persons of Rs 26 lakh in a land deal, was arrested on Tuesday. The city police have also booked three of his accomplices, who are on the run, in connection with the case.

 The arrested was identified as V Sureshkumar, of   in Ganapathy. His aides Thirugnanam of Dharapuram, Selvakumar of  , and Muthupandi of  , were booked under Sections 120 B (criminal conspiracy), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record) of the Indian Penal Code.
 
 The four, police said, attempted to sell 13 cents of land worth more than Rs50 lakh that belonged to Kumarasamy of Uppilipalayam near Singanallur by forging documents. Velusamy and Varadharajan from Uppilipalayam contacted Sureshkumar and his three associates over phone in 2004 and told them that they were ready to buy the land.
 
 Sureshkumar introduced himself as the land owner and told them that he was settled in Bengaluru and also agreed to sell the land. With the help of Thirugnanam, Selvakumar and Muthupandi, Sureshkumar forged land documents and received Rs 26 lakh from the two buyers in three instalments.
 
 They also registered the sale deed with the sub-registrar office in Coimbatore. When Velusamy and Varadharajan attempted to clean the newly-purchased land, its land owner intervened and showed them the original land documents. 
 
 When the duo realised that they had been duped, they demanded the four-member gang to return Rs 26 lakh. The four agreed to return the amount, but continued to evade them. 
 
 The duo finally approached the judicial magistrate court–II which a few days ago directed the police to register a case against the four-member gang. Subsequently, city crime branch sub-inspector Mohan registered an FIR against the gang and arrested Sureshkumar and lodged him at the   on Tuesday. The remaining three were on the run, he said.
 
