NEW DELHI: 
  ,   leader   today resumed his attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his "incompetent decision" to scrap high-value currency notes, and for "weakening every single institution" that forms the backbone of the country.

 At a 'Jan Vedna' meet today 
  for "flitting from one government scheme to another" and doing neither well, "just like how he practices yoga." 
  
 "The PM can do yoga very well, but have you noticed he cannot do the padmasana (lotus position)? I notice these things. Similarly, when he went with a broom to talk about cleaning India up, did you see how he was holding the broom? Nothing gets cleaned if you hold the broom like that," Rahul said to the guffaws of the crowd.
 
 Rahul also accused the   and the RSS (the BJP's ideological forbear) for behaving "unilaterally" and acting like they have supreme authority.
 
 " 
  is just an excuse, since PM Modi can no longer hide behind Skills India, Make in India and all his other schemes,"Rahul said.
 
 "The BJP has done in 2.5 yrs what we didn't do in 70 years. Every single institution, the RBI, the judiciary, have been weakened by the BJP and the RSS," Rahul said.
 
 The world over, the Congress leader said, economists are ridiculing India for Modi's decision to scrap high-value notes.
 
 "The PM needs to ask himself what all has happened since he demonetized. He needs to ask himself why auto sales have dropped, why labourers are going back to villages. This isn't the transformation that India is looking for or the 'acche din' (good days) the PM promised", Rahul said, referring to the BJP's campaign slogan that it will bring "good times" back in India.
 
 Those 'good times' Modi promised, they won't be seen any time soon, Rahul said.
 
 "Let me tell the people of India 'acche din' will come only in 2019 when the Congress comes back to power."
 
 Earlier, the Jan Vedna convention of the Congress began at the Talkatora Stadium on Wednesday with a screening short films on former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi.
 
 The convention is expected to focus on the party's future course of action in its protest against  . The party will also pass a resolution to celebrate the 100th birth anniversary of Indira Gandhi in November.
 
 The convention will reflect upon the sufferings of the people brought about by the demonetisation by the government and also its anti-people policies.
 
 Rahul is expected to release the 'Haal behal, Jan Vedna ke 2.5 saal' booklet.
 
 
 
 
 
 
