NEW DELHI: Metro fares in the capital will rise between 25% and 67% from Wednesday, the first increase since 2009. The next hike has been planned in October, when most of the fare slabs will be up by Rs 10.

 From Wednesday, the minimum fare will be Rs 10, up from Rs 8; the maximum Rs 50 against the existing Rs 30, after the   ( ) Board gave its go-ahead on Monday for the fare hike recommended by a panel.
 
 However, there will be concessions for passengers using the Metro on Sundays and national holidays. The fares on these days will be between Rs 10 and Rs 40 till September-end. This has been done to encourage ridership on these days. The concessional rates will be be revised from October 1 as well.
 .
  
  
 However, the Airport Express fares have not been hiked as they are already on the steeper side.
 
 DMRC had been pushing for a fare revision, citing increasing expenses to run the system. Between March 2009 — when the last hike was effected — and March 2016, the DMRC's expenses went up six-fold from Rs 724 crore to Rs 4,342 crore, with fare revenue seeing a slightly slower increase. Expenses, in contrast, shot up by a higher proportion as electricity and staff costs more than doubled. As a result, from a profit of Rs 41 crore in 2008-09, DMRC incurred losses of Rs 708 crore during 2015 16, the latest period for which official numbers are available.
 
 DMRC said the operational ratio at present is 69, which has increased from present is 69, which has increased from 50 during 2009 when fare was revised last. Operational ratio is the expenses incurred for running the system, which also includes pay and other expenditures.
 
 Sources said the Fare Fixation Committee, which had submitted its report in last September had recommended fare hike from October 1 last year and again from next October. This was done to ensure that the hike does not hit people hard. "But the DMRC Board took more time to accept the committee's recommendation. So, the fare hike that was supported kick in from last October will happen from Wednesday," said a source.
 
 However, there are some good news for commuters as well.
 
 To push digital payment, the DMRC Board has approved giving additional 10% rebate on fare, if the passengers use the Metrol Rail during non-peak hours. Off-peak hour has been defined as up to 8 am in the morning, 12 noon to 5 pm and 9 pm till the closing hours. At present, passengers using smart card get 10% discount on the fare. So, from Wednesday onwards using smart cards during non peak hours will actually reduce the fare by 20%.
 
 "This is one of the interventions to encourage people to use the Metro trains when it's less crowded," a government official said.
 
 The board has also approved the recommendation of implementing Common Mobility Card for all other modes of transport. DMRC has been asked to provide cloak room facility at stations on chargeable basis on the lines of Tokyo Metro.
 
 To end the uncertainty over revision of Metro Rail fares, urban development ministry has proposed setting up a common regulator for all mass rapid transit systems across India.
 
