NAGPUR: The   ( ) is giving top priority to anti-crime measures these days.

 While addressing the media at   headquarters on Saturday, GRP superintendent of police   said that he held several meetings with railway police stations of 24 districts to get to the root of criminal activities.
 
 “Gang man, who earlier used to conduct patrolling up to 6 km on railway tracks, now would take round of only 2 km for better outcomes. He would trace all illegal activities, including removal of fishplates which led to several major accidents, and stealing of cable wires from the signal box without which the driver couldn’t move ahead,”   said.
 
 “Such thefts are mostly executed by ex-servicemen, suspended employees or who have an idea of technical issues,” said Patil, who claimed that the department has major manpower crunch.
 
 “Cops have established pictures of transgenders, who robbed passengers. Sometimes, they hurt passengers if they do not get the demanded money. Police have caught several gangs that were into extortion and robbing passengers. The meeting with villagers and police patils is also being held to nab culprits who targeted trains,” Patil said.
 
 “The cops have decided to collect all fishplates in bad condition besides railway tracks. Besides, the scrap dealers, who steal iron rods, are also on the cops’ radar,” he said.
 
 Patil also talked about the ongoing police recruitment process. He said of the 10,000 application forms, 13,055 were from woman applicants. The eligibility test is being held for 38 posts, of which 12 are secured for women.
 
 “Daily, around 700 students are appearing for exams. As of now, 1,650 students have become eligible for posts. On the ground of Ajni headquarters, as many as seven CCTV cameras have been installed for the first time. Besides, two videographs also being used to get clear result of events,” Patil said.
 
 “The exam will be completed by April 4. Total five events are being conducted during physical tests. Many applicants are post graduates. A few are engineers and MBA degree holders,” he added.
 
 
