 recently announced that the results of   exams would most likely be declared by 
 . Needless to say, this is a stressful period for them and many also happen to be appearing for various competitive exams. Luckily, summer camps and treks have come to their rescue. Schools and club houses in the city are bustling with students partaking in summer camps. However, the students are focusing more on unconventional activities this year. One such activity is Aqua  , that is gaining popularity in the city. Anjali Agrawal, a class 12 student shares, “Performing quirky moves and exercises in water is the best therapy to keep oneself de-stressed and fit.” 
  
  
 
 More students are focusing on fitness, and besides hitting the gym, are also being seen on playgrounds. Vandit Jaiswal, a lawn tennis player says, “Indulging in sports can help refresh the mind. The constant movement and action in tennis burns calories and builds muscle. Playing tennis is a physical and mental workout for me, as it involves a lot of tactical thinking. Basketball, cricket and swimming are also popular with my friends.”
 
 For Dhruv Kumar, being in the company of animals gives him happiness, and so, he has joined horse-riding classes this summer. “While riding a horse, I feel close to nature and it my tensions and worries are gone. Joining such classes makes one realise there is so much more that can be taken as a career option, besides studying and choosing the road most travelled.”
 
  
  
 
 Some students are also taking up summer treks to beat stress. For Pavitra Muthu, who has completed her class 12 board exams, going on a trek calmed her. “Taking time out for recreational activities helps one grow both mentally and physically. I recently took a five-day trip to Manali with a bunch of youngsters. On the first day I had gone with a mind clouded with thoughts, worries and questions about the future. But in time, I learnt to live in the present and appreciate things around me,” she shares. Vaidehi Bhagat, who also went on the trip, adds, “I developed a better understanding of people which will help me in befriending the right people in my college as a fresher.”
  
 
  
 
 Besides waiting for their exam results, appearing for various competitive exams is also a cause of stress among students. However, they have resorted to taking other cities as exam centres and are going there in groups. Diya Chouhan shares, “I have realised worrying won’t do me any good and therefore, I decided to make the most of my summer vacation with school friends. I am going to Mumbai the next week to appear for an entrance exam in an engineering college. A few of my friends are also accompanying me to visit other colleges in the city. This way we will have one last trip together and keep our anxiety at bay.”
 
 
