Madurai: From diminishing cargo, loss of trade routes and cut-throat competition from container  , ‘thoni’ (sailing/mechanised vessel) industry in Tuticorin is facing another major challenge from   which have of late been taking away its major chunk of cargo. Trouble has been brewing in Old Harbour area of Tuticorin in the last few days as   have put up huge posters condemning  . They allege that the port authorities are looking the other way as barges take away   meant for them putting their   at stake. 

 According to the thoni operators, Tuticorin’s new port had come into existence because there was an old port which catered to thonis. After the new port started in 1974, the old harbour was left to thoni operations. Slowly the barges, navigated by powerful tug boats, came into the old port and they have been trying to wipe away thonis by taking away their business. “We are not allowed to sail from May 15 to September 15 which is termed as off-season. There is no such restriction on barges which keep ferrying construction materials and occasionally general cargo when there is a pressing need. Of late they have been trying to transport all sorts of cargo and thonis are not getting their due cargo for shipping”, rued Princeton Fernando, president of Sailing Vessel Operators at Tuticorin. 
 
 Sailing in the state is more than 2,000 years old with a lot of literary and archaeological evidences indicating that the thoni industry in Tuticorin is more than 300 years old, say scholars. Folklorist and author A Sivasubramanian from Tuticorin who penned a book ‘Thoni’ states that sailing was a predominant industry in Tuticorin even when the region came under the rule of Portuguese, Dutch and British starting from 1553 AD. 
 
 Sivasubramanian has documented that there were two type of thonis such as Lighterage and Coasting. Lighterage had a single large sail and was used for transporting commodities between shore and ship while coasting thonies with three to 14 sails were used to transport cargo from Tuticorin to Colombo and sea ports in Arabian sea like Mangalore, Calicut and Porbandar. Till mechanisation set in in 1985, these vessels were operated only using sails. Still, they have a single mast for sail alternating between machine propulsion and sail when the wind is favourable. In the beginning of 1980, there were 44 lighterages and 40 coastings operating from Tuticorin, the author mentions in his book. 
 
 Barges came into the old port in 2000 and they have been mostly transporting huge boulders and blue metal to Maldives for construction works. “It was sort of an unwritten agreement between thonis and barges that we will not object transporting boulders from old port while we will cater to general cargo and perishable cargo. We never thought general cargo will be transported in barges and it came as the shock to us when general and perishable cargo started being shipped in barges”, stated Subash Fernando, a thoni operator to Maldives. 
 
 There are nearly 30 thonis operating from Tuticorin at present while there are nearly 3,000 people depending on this sector. If barges take away general cargo, it will sound the death knell for thoni industry. So the operators have decided to put up stiff resistance to the VOC port management’s ‘irresponsible’ attitude on the issue in the coming days. 
 
 
