GUNTUR: In a significant development, the New York Stock Exchange listed firm,  . announced its collaboration with one of the premier educational institute in the state, Vignan’s University, here on Friday. The   will work with Vignan to establish an radio frequency (RF) and wireless research center using state of the art equipment for wireless technologies for both system level design and measurement.
 
 Vignan university established the Centre of Excellence (CoE) in conjunction with Keysight with a cost of Rs 11.2 crore. Keysight has provided a significant contribution in the form of partial equipment donation under University relations program. This is the first time that Keysight is establishing such a big CoE in the state. 
 
 The research center provides RF equipment that includes a Keysight vector signal generator, signal analyzer, mixed signal oscilloscope, logic analyzer, vector network analyzer, EDA software tools like ADS, SystemVue, EMPro.
 
 Announcing the decision soon after the signing of Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), the university vice-chancellor Dr MYS Prasad said that it is going to be a milestone in the history of higher education research in the country. “We are happy to work with Keysight Technologies, whom we consider as leader in the field of wireless communications test” said, Dr.M.Y.S Prasad. He said that Keysight would provide domain expertise on cutting edge technologies as it is more than just a test equipment company. Noted industrialist  , who inaugurated the CoE said that the centre would be a major boon for research in aviation and electronics sectors in the country. He said that the studies would help bring in more innovating products in the defense and aviation sectors.
 
 Keysight technologies india operations chief, VV Pathy said that Vignan could definitely leverage knowledge and benefit from experiences on high technology areas to enhance the program offering and deliver value in their PG and PhD programs which will differentiate it from other institutions. Keysight country general manager   said that they were pleased to work with a prestigious institution like Vignan’s University and provide test and design tools for undergraduate and graduate program.
 
