LUCKNOW: Cause of hypertension or cardio vascular diseases (CVD) often lies in the cooking   one consumes. In a recent discovery at King George’s Medical University, physiology department has created Omega Life a cooking medium it claims will help bring down blood pressure level of CVD and hypertension patients. 

 Leading a joint research, Dr Narsingh Verma, secretary general of the Indian Society of Hypertension along with scholar Kshitij Bhardwaj, they found that growing number of cases of CVD and hypertension were related to imbalance of necessary Omega 3 and Omega 6 fatty acids in our bodies, coming from the oils we consume. 
 
 “Fish is a great source of Omega 3 but changes in our diet have cut out that source and besides, the nutrients in fish have also reduced in recent times because of the inferior feed it gets,” said Bhardwaj, adding that for vegetarians, flax seed with 58% Omega 3 is major source.
 
 “But flax seed is preferred mostly among rural population given its sour taste and short shelf life, while urban population mostly uses other forms of edible oil with high quantity of Omega 6,” added Bhardwaj. 
 
 It was then that Omega Life was born by mixing flax seed oil along with two other oils as natural oxidants giving it a better taste and shell life of eight months. “We have already applied for the patent. It was an important finding that against the required ratio of 1:1 for Omega 3 and Omega 6, our bodies have the ratio of 1:27, which is harmful and generated mostly because of other edible oils we consume,” explained Verma.
 
 Research on 150   patients (100 of CVD and 50 of hypertension) was conducted over a one-and-a-half year span. The patients were kept on a single dose of Omega Life oil (no other edible oil used in their food) for six months to see result. They were asked to mix one spoon of the oil in their lentils and pulses and use it for mild frying. “Their health condition got better and for patients with 170 to 210 blood pressure level, it came down to 130-140 units,” added Bhadrwaj.
 
 
