Most people would not recognize Delhi actor Mohd   by his real name, considering he's more popular as the characters he has played in films. Chintu, the smitten lawyer from Rampur in ' ' who declares, 'Hasratein Lucknow, basratein Kanpur... surmayi hai Bareilly, aur kaatilana hai Rampur', Murari, the friend who shows   the mirror in ' ' with dialogues like, 'Tumhara pyaar na ho gaya, UPSC ka exam ho gaya... 10 saal se clear hi nahi ho raha', and Arif, the sensitive older brother to   in 'Shahid', are some of the roles Ayyub has made popular. Ayyub was in Lucknow to shoot for the film 'Arzi' and spoke to us about playing a UPwallah in several films, how being from Delhi is an advantage when it comes to playing a UPwallah or Punjabi because of the large population of immigrants here, and why he is not afraid of being tagged as the hero's friend in most films. 

 
 
 I was playing a Rampuria in TWMR. I believe, being from Delhi definitely helps you in playing a UPwallah or a Punjabi or Haryanvi. If you live in Delhi, you have to communicate with people from different regional backgrounds on a daily basis. Secondly, I come from Okhla, a place which mainly consists of immigrants. Apart from that, I am an actor. It is my job to get the traits of a character right and make it look convincing on screen.
 
 
 
 This is exactly what I was told when I signed 'Mere Brother Ki Dulhan', that I will get the tag of being the hero's friend. But I don't think so, because I have heard that people are confident about me playing any "taboo" character after how critics and audience have given me so much love and appreciation. And I have been told that I have given a character to these "weak" roles. In the end, I believe that I will get this tag only if I start repeating my performance.
 
 
 It's not like that. He just didn't want me to take it for granted. Once I joined NSD, he knew that I take acting seriously so he was completely supportive. He is not with us now but I'm sure he would have felt really proud of a few works I have done. Though I know his blessings are always with me now. And also my speech and diction (that people say I have good command over) was all because of him and his teachings. I really miss him and love him a lot.
 
 
 
 I think this answer will require a whole book or maybe a series of books, so let's keep it simple, only true love for your art, without frustrations or treating theatre as a footstep to films, will keep theatre going. 
 
 
 
 I don't want to comment on those who don't voice their opinion, because it's their personal call. As for people like us, I believe I am a citizen of India first, before anything else. I strongly believe in our open culture and power of democracy. So I will keep voicing my opinion. 
 
 
 
 Why not? But it will definitely not be like the usual ones. I don't want to limit my learning.
 
