LUCKNOW: Facing attacks from Prime Minister   and his BJP leaders over development work in the state,   president chief minister Akhilesh Yadav retaliated on Tuesday saying the prime minister had promised to develop Varanasi on the lines of Kyoto, Japan but nothing was done in that direction.

 Hitting at Modi and BJP leaders for “misguiding” people of the state with “false” promises and slogans, Akhilesh said, “ It is shocking to see the prime minister presenting false and baseless figures regarding development work, crime and power supply. His claims that the Samajwadi Party’s social welfare schemes were discriminatory were false as I have produced names of beneficiaries of Samajwadi pension scheme and free laptops.”
 
 He also said that the prime minister had no answer when asked what he or his 73 MPs have done for the state in the last three years. 
 
 Responding to Governor Ram Naik’s query regarding continuance of tainted minister   in the government, the chief minister clarified the government will take action against the minister if he was found guilty and that was the reason he had not been sacked. He hinted there was BJP hand behind the Prajapati issue, saying the party had also raised the Badaun suicides by three girls in the same manner and the allegations were later proved false and baseless.
 
 In reply to yet another charge levelled against him by the BSP chief Mayawati of leading a lavish lifestyle and using imported stones for construction in his bungalow, Akhilesh Yadav said it was interesting how the BSP chief had learnt from BJP leaders to peep into people’s bathrooms and houses. He was referring to Modi’s taunt on former prime minister   of bathing with a rain coat on.
 
 Replying to a question related to the outburst of Sadhna Gupta—second wife of former chief of Samajwadi Party and his father Mulayam Singh Yadav—against him, Akhilesh said he had not idea of what she has said as he had just landed after completing his election campaign. Akhilesh had gone to campaign in Ambedkarnagar where polling had been countermanded following death of a BSP candidate and now voting will take place on March 9. 
 
 On the repeated road shows by the prime minister in Varanasi, Akhilesh Yadav commented that everybody knows only weak students appear in re-examination.
 
 Taunting at the prime minister’s remarks that power outage was such a big problem in the state that there was power cut even when the CM was worshipping at the Kashi Vishwanath temple, Akhilesh said, “The prime minister had wrong information, because inside the temple during the pouja I had asked for the fan to be turned off before the aarti but mistakenly the light was turned off, causing darkness for a few minutes. The prime minister has, similarly, commented wrongly on so many issues.”
 
 
