Kolkata: A child-like emotion grips her as she walks by the storks, herons and ibises in the Alipore zoo aviary. As a black ibis picks its catch from a pond, she recalls her fight to save one of its cousins, the Waldrapp Ibis, a critically endangered bird that suffered severely from human actions in Europe from where it disappeared more than 300 years ago. Welcome to the world of  . And, the backdrop couldn’t have been better.

 On her maiden visit to Kolkata on Wednesday, the American naturalist, author and zookeeper took a stroll inside  , taking a look at the enclosures, the waterbody, the birds and animals, and of course talking about conservation and her husband late  .
 
 “It’s good to see Gerry’s (Gerald Durrell) dreams are leading the way in several parts of the world as far as captive breeding of endangered species are concerned,” says Lee, just back from Assam after overseeing a captive breeding and reintroduction project of the critically endangered pygmy hog. The project is led by the  , of which she’s the director. They released the 100th pygmy hog in the wild in Assam’s   last year.
 
 For Alipore zoo — her first visit to any Indian zoo — the 67-year-old has a host of suggestions. Though she is impressed with the new glass enclosure for tigers, she finds the cages of leopards and jaguars “old-fashioned”. “They should be bigger in size, have clean water and a lot more branches.” 
 
 “Take a look at this and say, does it have any feel of a natural African forest?” says Lee pointing at the chimpanzee enclosure that, she feels, needs shade. 
 
 Behavioural enrichment, according to her, holds the key to successful conservation programmes in the zoos. It’s a concept that seeks to enhance the quality of captive animal care by identifying and providing the environmental stimuli necessary for physiological and psychological well-being of the animals.
 
 Standing in front of the famous Burdwan House on the zoo premises, where Rudrani, a tigon (a hybrid between a male tiger and female lion ), was born in 1972, Lee looked upbeat about the concept of hybridisation. “Genetic evolution is dynamic and we must remember that anything can happen in nature,” she adds. But she cautioned zoos about breeding white tigers. “White tigers are not natural. I don’t support captive breeding of white tigers, which many zoos are now doing to attract visitors. This is not done. Instead, use the space for species in the conservation programme.” Alipore zoo now has four white tigers.
 
 Just back from Kaziranga, Lee was probably a little sad to see two elephants in their zoo shelter on Wednesday. Though she was elated to know about the zoo-adoption scheme, tinkering with the natural environment inside the zoo hurt her. Though Lee and her team were keen to visit the giraffe enclosures, they were not allowed in. 
 
 
