Mumbai: For chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, who helms the home department, it was a huge embarrassment when a man accused of killing Antara Das, a software engineer in Pune, was granted bail following the failure to file a chargesheet within 90 days. 

 After stalking and harassing her, S K Gupta allegedly murdered Das on the outskirts of Pune in December 2016. Under the provisions of IPC and the Criminal Procedure Code, it was expected that the police would file the chargesheet before the court within 90 days after the arrest. After the stipulated, Gupta approached the court, saying that he should be granted bail. Judicial magistrate H Y Kawale granted him bail. 
 
 Kawale issued a showcause notice to the investigating officer and asking him to explain why he should not be held responsible for dereliction of duty. Eyebrows are being raised over the manner in which the law-enforcement agencies dealt with the Antara Das murder case. Since it was a sensational murder, it was expected that besides the investigating officer, senior officers would monitor the case and ensure that the accused was not released on bail on technical or procedural grounds. 
 
 
 
 Excise minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule is at the receiving end for “inept” handling of the situation after the Supreme Court banned liquor shops, permit rooms and bars within 500m on national and state highways. Within a week, Bawankule had to reverse his own decision taken in favour of permit rooms and bars on highways. Even before the apex court was to pronounce the final verdict, there was a legal opinion, saying the verdict is applicable only to liquor shops and not to permit rooms and bars. On the basis of the opinion, which was not given to the Maharashtra government, the state excise department issued an order, saying the Supreme Court order is not applicable to permit rooms and bars, as such, there was no need to cancel their licenses. Bawankule explained as to how there would be losses to the tune of Rs 7,000 crore to the state exchequer if permit rooms and bars on highways are closed. The SC order came as a setback for Bawankule.
 
 
 
 Governor Ch Vidyasagar Rao praised cardiologist B K Goyal for taking care of the health of successive governors. The Dhanwantari award was presented to Hyderabad-based gastroenterologist Nageshwar Reddy. Like his predecessors, he too wants to complete his tenure in good health. Rao said any request from Goyal is a command for him, since he has been the honorary advisor of the successive governors for more than four decades. Even former Union home minister Sushilkumar Shinde, who has been associated with the Dhanwantari foundation, since its inception has managed to stay fit due to the care taken by Goyal. A Padma Vibhushan recipient, Goyal has been associated with Bombay Hospital for a long time as a dean.
 
