CHANDIGARH: A   (PU) panel has said the varsity should go ahead with seeking a central status to overcome its financial crisis, but only after ensuring that three of its conditions are met.

 The committee, formed by   to discuss the pros and cons of the university seeking a central status, in its final meeting on Wednesday laid down three conditions: first, the structure and autonomy of its governing bodies should be maintained; second, the affiliation of colleges would have to be retained; and third, service conditions of non-teaching employees of the varsity should be protected. Sources said non-teaching and teaching staff representatives also participated in the meeting. The non-teaching representative said staff had no problem with PU getting the central university status provided their service conditions were protected. Sources said committee members unanimously agreed on the nomenclature to be given to PU — be it centrally-funded, heritage university or central university.
 
 The committee members observed that getting the central university status was a long-term solution for PU’s financial crisis. Since the Union ministry of human resource development (MHRD) increased grant for the varsity from Rs 197.73 crore to Rs 207.80 crore for 2017-18 and   government also increased its grant for PU to Rs 33 crore, the committee members observed that PU should look for a long-term solution. Thus, the committee members observed that the university should look for a long-term solution. Previously, the panel had decided to not to go ahead with the resolution for seeking central status, but would now vie for the same- a tag of institute of national importance, which will be fully-funded by the central government. 
 
 Senator  , who had earlier given a memorandum, also submitted an amended version of the resolution for consideration in the meeting on May 24. PU is concerned regarding the 180 affiliated colleges under its purview. 
 
 They are apprehensive of these colleges losing affiliation. But, some of the committee members have set this issue aside citing it as misinformation. In 2009, three state universities -¬ Ghasiram University, Hari Singh Gour University, and Hemvati Nandan Behuguna University were centralized. These universities continue working with affiliated colleges. Moreover, in the earlier meeting there was an issue concerning sacking the non-teaching employees of the university (those exceeding the ratio of 1: 1.
 
