NASHIK: The Anant Kubal Memorial theatre festival concluded on Thursday evening here with teams from Kalyan, Mumbai, and Chandrapur winning the top three prizes for production and direction while teams from other cities bagged the major prizes. 

 The theatre festival was organized by the Nashik branch of the  , an apex body of Marathi theater activists,  . Six plays from Nashik were staged, but they failed to leave a remarkable impact on the result. 
 
 "A total of 25 plays were presented during the three-day competition. In the production department, Abhinay Group from Kalyan won the first prize for their play 'Dardapora', Aakar Academy, Mumbai, secured the second prize for '12 KM' while Navodita Group from Chandrapur won third prize for their play ' '," said Mahesh Dokfode, festival coordinator.
 
 Senior theatre actor  , who was chief guest for the prize distribution ceremony, also pointed out the issue of Nashik's share in the prize list. "Nashik has always contributed a lot in the development of Marathi theatre. The city has given legends like V V Shirwadkar and Vasant Kanetkar to the theatre. But, where is Nashik's next generation? I sincerely expect more from Nashik's theatre scenario," she said.
 
 "One act plays are considered the grooming ground for professional and experimental theatre. Hence, such state-level competitions are important for the professional theatre too," she added. 
 
 Judges Vidya Karandikar, Sanjay Dalve and Sadanand Joshi also interacted with the participants and winners during the prize distribution ceremony. "Participants should consider every single person in the audience as a judge and expert while presenting the play. They should develop acceptance and encourage their competitors. This is the real spirit of theatre," said Sadanand Joshi. 
 
 This was the sixth year of the Anant Kubal Memorial Theatre festival. From next year, the organizers are planning to extend the duration of the festival to five days. "The number of plays will be similar, but we are planning the event in such a way that only five plays will be held in a day. This will help maintain the concentration of artistes and audiences as well," said Ravindra Kadam, president of the   of Natya Parishad.
 
