NAGPUR: Nagpur Municipal Corporation ( ) and city   for the first time have come together and issued a stern warning to   owners who let their bovines loose on roads. 

 “The deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Ravindrasinh Pardeshi and municipal commissioner   have issued a strongly worded public notice in this regard. The notice published on Monday states that under Sections 90 (A) and 118 of Bombay Police Act, 1951, strict action will be taken against cattle menace,” said senior police inspector (traffic) Jayesh Bhandarkar. Besides a fine of Rs3,000, violators will be imprisoned for a month, the senior PI said.
 
 Bhandarkar further said that a youth died in a fatal accident in June after his vehicle hit a stray cattle. In the past too, many motorists have died due to stray cattle menace. 
 
 Currently, the NMC is imposing a fine of Rs1,100 and Rs1,300 per cow and buffalo respectively. “From 2015-16 till June end this year, the NMC impounded 2,975 stray cattle and recovered a fine of Rs18,73,696,” said NMC’s veterinary officer Dr  . 
 
 The traffic police and the civic body have served notices to all the stray cattle owners, appealing them not to let their cattle loose on roads. The agencies clarified that leaving cattle on streets and rearing in public place is a violation of Section 233 of Maharashtra Municipal Corporation Act. 
 
 The owners have been given 15 days to stop their cattle from straying on streets. “We have asked cattle owners to submit a self-attested written application to the NMC zone offices and police stations that they will not allow straying of cattle,” Bhandarkar said. 
 
 Welcoming the move, motorists said that besides easing traffic movement, making the city cattle free will also improve hygiene and reduce deaths caused in accidents due to stray animals.
 
 Citing many fatal accidents caused due to stray cattle in the past, founder of Jeevan Suraksha Prakalp Raju Wagh said, “Stray animal owners can also be prosecuted under the provisions of The Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960, Police Act and Sections 289, 428, 429 of IPC.” 
 
 In 2013, then municipal commissioner Shyam Wardhane had proposed cattle owners to shift their sheds outside city limits. In order to appease a large number of vote bank, politicians have allowed cattle rearing in city limits.
 
