NEW DELHI: A group of entrepreneurs, one of whom had taken a loan under the Prime Minister’s small start-up scheme to set up a bar-cum-restaurant in west Delhi, were arrested for robbing a money transfer agent near   in April.

 The men had prepared a blueprint for the perfect robbery by doing a recce of the   collector’s routes and then   him at gunpoint while he was on his way to deposit Rs 16 lakh in a bank. They then fled to their hometowns to lie low for some time and had planned to return this month to start their business all over again.
 
 They were, however, traced by the police with the help of CCTV footage that showed their faces. The accused — Manoj, Ashish, Deepak and Ravi Kumar — had set up different businesses across west and southwest Delhi.
 
 Manoj had taken the loan to open the eatery, but it failed due to his addiction to gambling. He had even bought a few e-rickshaws with the loaned money to ply near   stations in Uttam Nagar.
 
 He met the others while gambling and decided to rob the cash   to pay off their debts. They followed their victim to his office and home for days. On April 15, they bought a country-made pistol and decided to waylay him near Nasirpur Mandi. They snatched his bag containing Rs 16 lakh, distributed the money between themselves and fled to their hometowns.
 
 “A team led by ACP (operations) Rajinder Singh was formed to track the men. As they had no criminal antecedents, we had to rely on local informers,” said DCP (southwest) Surender Kumar. Though the CCTV footage showed the faces of the men, they did not match anyone’s profile in the locality.
 
 In the meantime, Ashish, Deepak and Ravi returned to Delhi and rented a room at Rajapuri. Cops soon got to know of this and arrested them. Manoj was caught later after the police got to know of his whereabouts from his associates.
 
 Manoj told the police that he had sold his e-rickshaws, but still couldn’t pay off his debts. Ashish couldn’t arrange money for his wedding and his girlfriend got married to another man. Police have recovered Rs 5 lakh from the robbed amount.
 
 
