NAGPUR: The   of the   has found many students staying illegally in the boys’ hostel off   at Law College Square.

 Pro-vice chancellor Pramod Yeole, who submitted a report in this regard to vice chancellor S P Kane, however, did not confirm the exact number of students staying illegally at the hostel. Kane has called a meeting to review the situation and discuss the matter on Monday.
 
 Yeole in his report has also raised security and sanitation issues at the hostel. According to the report, the illegal students are those who were denied admission to the hostel.
 
 Yeole said the university will fix accountability and find out solution of the problem.
 
  said the students’s stay is technically illegal and not that those other than the allotted ones are occupying the hostel rooms. “Allotment was done randomly but some students want to continue in their preferred rooms so they mutually swapped the rooms,” he said.
 
 When pointed out that many undergraduate students of BCom an BA too are staying there, Shedmake said, “The hostels have a tradition of inmates bringing in their relatives or friends.”
 
 On security issue, he said, “There’s only one security guard and the compound wall too is not secured enough. We are setting up a Wi-Fi network so provision for CCTV too would be made in the budget this year.”
 
 When TOI visited the hostel on Saturday, it found the facility there in complete disarray. Most of the blocks of the over five-decade-old structure spread over one acre were in dilapidated condition. More than two students were found in most rooms. Water supply connections were leaking near the washrooms while corridors wore dirty look.
 
 TOI spoke to some students staying illegally to know what compelled them to violate norms. “I belong to a farmer family from Chimur. I can’t afford to stay in a rented accommodation outside. Thus, I am compelled to stay along with my class here. It is embarrassing but I don’t have a choice,” a student said.
 
 Another student said if the university wants, it can have much higher capacity hostel. “All these old structures should be redeveloped and modern infrastructure should be set up. Only then the problem of illegally occupancy will be solved,” he said.
 
