VISAKHAPATNAM: The   for Development of   (FDNA) has urged the ministry of finance to shift the headquarters of   Grameena Vikas Bank (APGVB) from Warangal to north Andhra region. FDNA said the employees should be given an option of whether to remain in   or come to their home districts.

 In a representation to the Union finance minister, FDNA said APGVB was formed as per Regional Rural Banks Act, 1976 in the combined state with Warangal as headquarters. As per the Act the central government, sponsor bank and the state government will have share of 50:35:15, respectively. Now, APGVB consists of 19 districts of Telangana and 3 districts namely Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts of Andhra Pradesh. These 3 districts (North Andhra) were earlier in Sri Visakha Grameena Bank with Srikakulam as the head office.
 
 FDNA said as per the RRB Act, the same rural bank cannot exist in two states. As per this clause, APGVB should have been shifted to Andhra Pradesh by June 2, 2014, the date on which the state was bifurcated. But till now that is not happened. On October 20, 2014, the central government had issued notification no. SO 2718(E) renaming Deccan Grameena Bank as Telangana Grameena Bank. Another notification was issued on the same day merging some more districts of Telangana into this bank. But unfortunately the three north Andhra districts were kept in the bank which has headquarters at Warangal in Telangana, FDNA said.
 
 At present, nearly 800 employees of these three districts are working in APGVB, said FDNA adding that as per the rules of the bank, they could be transferred to any of the districts. MP’s of Visakhapatnam and Srikakulam too wrote letters to the Union finance minister on this issue. The central government had constituted a committee of officials in July 2015 to suggest means to bifurcate APGVB and the committee has given its report in February 2016. But the central government has not taken any action on this till now, FDNA claimed. 
 
