JAIPUR: Relief and rescue operations are in full swing in the flood-hit districts of Sirohi, Pali and Jalore of western Rajasthan. Sanchore town in Jalore district is submerged under   waters. Gates of   are opened around 2 pm on Friday to discharge water aggravating the flood situation in Sanchore town. Meanwhile, the Met office had warned of heavy rainfall in the next 24 hours in the state except Bikaner.

 “Most of the roads of Sirohi, Pali, Jalore districts are blocked and traffic movement is badly affected. Since the roads are affected, the NDRF has been sent by boats and helicopters for the relief operations,” said a state government statement.
 
 The rescue and relief operations are being carried out on a war footing at the flood affected areas. According to the state government 1,050 were rescued from the flood affected areas. Over 525 shifted to the 20 temporary shelters set up in Barmer, Jalore, Sirohi, and Rajamand districts. The government said the relief and rescue operations are being monitored at the highest level in the state.
 
 The government said following deaths of 800 cows in the flood hit areas of Jalore and Sirohi districts, the state government had intensified rescue efforts to shift the livestock also to the safer places.
 
 The state government had directed the medical and Health, PHED, Power and PWD and other department to be on the alert to tackle any exigencies arising out of the flood situation.
 
 Four team each of NDRF and   and three teams each of CRPF and  , home guards and local people are engaged in the rescue and relief operations said the state government. The Air Force has pressed in to service two helicopters. The district administrations in cooperation with the local people are distributing essential goods like food packets, medicines to the affected. Normal rainfall for Rajasthan is 530.08 mm for monsoon season. Till Friday rainfall the state received 318.45 mm which is 37.5 % higher compared to normal which is 231.48 mm for the period from June 1 to July 28.
 
 As of most parts of Rajasthan received more than normal rainfall, some districts of Kota and Jaipur zone still coming under deficit category.
 
