PANAJI: RSS is compromising its principle for BJP’s benefit in several states and this has led to “seething discontent” among the sangh’s cadre, head of the breakaway Goa RSS group,  , has said.
 
  “The overwhelming feeling among the cadre is that the RSS is taking pro-BJP stand everywhere. The RSS doesn’t have the courage to point out the BJP’s flaws. They are acting like they are servants and slaves of the  ,” Velingkar, whose political unit GSM is fighting the assembly elections in alliance with MGP and  , told TOI.
  
  He said sangh and BJP were different. “Political party’s cadre concept is different and sangh’s cadre concept is different. It is not attached to any leaders. Sangh never has slogans like ‘Manohar Parrrikar tum aage bado, Subhash Velingkar tum aage bado’. BJP or the other parties are attached to individual figures. The sangh is attached to principles.”
  
  But he alleged that the RSS had begun compromising its principles after 1994, when   stepped down as the RSS sarsanghachalak.
  
  The BJP is proving to be more corrupt than the Congress governments and RSS leadership is afraid to speak out against Union defence minister Manohar Parrikar’s decisions in Goa, Velingkar said.
  
  “When (Laxman)   (current Goa RSS chief) said he is fully backing the Bharatiya Bhasha Suraksha Manch on withdrawal of grants to the 134 English primary schools, he was shut up by the sangh leadership. He was summoned and questioned because he said Parrikar had made a blunder with the MOI (medium of instruction) issue. Behre has not spoken to the media since,” said Velingkar.
  
  “No one in RSS had the guts to tell Manohar (Parrikar) to toe the line on the MOI policy. In fact, he even cheated the sangh leadership,” Velingkar said.
  
  He also said they had broken away from the RSS only for the polls because they wanted to be true to their principles. “I have been with the sangh for 55 years. We, swayamsevaks and karyakartas, earned a credibility for ourselves in Goa. If we had compromised for the BJP, our credibility would be lost and nobody would have entertained us again.”
