PUNE: Strong protests by medical professionals against recent attacks on   seems to have borne little fruit.

 On Wednesday, two doctors from   in Pune were allegedly manhandled, abused and threatened by the relatives of a patient after she died during treatment at the hospital.
 
 Pravin Raghunath Jadhav, office superintendent of the Bharati Hospital, has lodged a complaint against two relatives of the patient with the Bharati Vidyapeeth police. “We have booked the duo under section 4 of the   Persons and   (Prevention of Violence and Damage or Loss to Property) Act,” Vijaysinh Gaikwad, senior inspector of the Bharati Vidyapeeth police, said.
 
 Gaikwad said police have invoked the act because the suspects had attempted to   the doctors in the hospital. “The section has the provision of three-year imprisonment with fine,” he said.
 
 Jadhav told TOI that the patient, Manda Khaladkar (58), was admitted to the hospital on March 28 for loose motions. In the early hours of Wednesday, her condition deteriorated. “The woman died around 3am despite best possible care provided by our team of doctors,” he added.
 
 Soon after the patient died, her relatives started accusing the medical staff at the hospital of negligence. “They alleged that the doctors administrated wrong injection to the patient and did not admit her to the intensive care unit (ICU),” Jadhav said.
 
 He said the relatives then started hurling abuses at the doctors. “One of them even tried to hit doctor Shriraj Pawar. When another doctor, Sumit Jagtap, started recording the incident on his cellphone, a relative charged him with a chair while another one hit him,” Jadhav said, adding, “We have the recording of the entire incident that we have given to the police.”
 
 Refuting allegations of the patient’s relatives, Jagtap said, “Every possible and proper treatment was provided to the patient.”
 
 No arrests have been made, so far. “Further probe is on,” Gaikwad said.
 
 Resident doctors in the state, including the ones at the Sassoon   in Pune, went on a mass leave last week to protest against recent spate of attacks on their colleagues, including the one at a doctor in Dhule hospital. Their protest intensified later in the week after the   also extended their support to the doctors’ cause and called for a shutdown of medical services in Maharashtra. 
 
