Cleared/Ali

 Coimbatore/ Salem: A toddler from Salem died of   infection at a private hospital in Coimbatore on Tuesday. Besides, two fresh cases of H1N1 infection were reported at the Coimbatore Government Hospital on Tuesday, taking the toll to four patients.
 
 According to Salem’s health department officials, the 15-month-old succumbed to viral pneumonia and multiple organ failure. “He was tested positive for H1N1 on January 27,” the deputy director of health, Salem, K Poongodi said. The deceased, G Sai Rakshan, was the son of Ganesh and Sangeetha from Ammanpet in Salem. 
 
 On January 20, Sai developed fever and his parents rushed him to a private hospital. “After treating him for four days, he did not show any signs of improvement. We shifted him to another private hospital in Salem where he was diagnosed with H1N1. Based on doctors’ advice in Salem, we shifted him to a private hospital in Coimbatore,” said Ganesh. The grieving father clarified that that they had not travelled in the recent days. 
 
 Failing to respond to treatment, Sai died on Tuesday morning. The parents performed the last rites for their son on Tuesday at a crematorium in Ammanpet. 
 
 Meanwhile, officials of health department and Salem Municipal Corporation (SMC) screened Ganesh’s family, friends and neighbours for infection. “Though they did not have any symptoms of H1N1, we have administered vaccines and tablets to them,” the deputy director said. She said the department will be on alert to treat H1N1 cases. “We have formed special wards in all the government hospitals to treat H1N1 cases. If anyone has prolonged fever, we urge them to consult a doctor immediately,” said Poongodi.
 
 Health officials of SMC screened Ammanpet and initiated a cleanliness drive. “We have deployed additional sanitary workers to clean drainages and remove garbage across the city,” city health officer R Selvakumar said.
 
 Meanwhile, a 15-month-old girl from Erode was admitted to the Salem government super-specialty hospital with symptoms of H1N1 on Tuesday. The dean of the hospital, P Kanagaraj, said, “The girl A Subasri of Veerappanchatram is being treated in isolation.” 
 
 In Coimbatore, two new cases of H1N1 were reported on Tuesday, taking the toll of H1N1 patients at the Coimbatore Government Hospital to four. A 57-year-old woman from Selvapuram and a 68-year-old man from Karamadai were tested positive for H1N1, the resident medical officer, M Soundaravel confirmed to TOI. “Both the patients were brought to the hospital on Sunday. They were tested positive by private labs. But we have an internal facility for confirming the presence of the virus,” said Soundaravel. 
 
 Besides these two, a 35-year-old woman from Ganapathy and a 65-year-old man from Karamadai tested positive for H1N1 at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital on Monday. “All four are stable and are being treated in isolation,” Soundaravel said. 
 
 On Monday, a 60-year-old woman from Jothipuram near Thudiyalur succumbed to fever and respiratory problems. The deceased N Sumathi was brought to the CMCH on Saturday after receiving treatment at a private hospital. 
 
 City health officer K Santosh Kumar said they are taking all steps to prevent H1N1 infection. “Awareness is the key. We are teaching hand washing techniques in schools and are requesting people to use a mask or a handkerchief when they are in public places,” he said. 
 
 
