NEW DELHI:  , wife of former Indian cricket team captain  , took to   after the cricketer's Aadhaar details were erroneously made public on Tuesday, following which the entity responsible has been blacklisted.

 Sakshi brought the privacy data breach to the notice of information and technology minister   on Twitter after e-governance agency Common Services Center ( ) posted MS Dhoni's personal Aadhaar details on the micro-blogging site.
 
 Taking a serious view of public sharing of a citizen's personal details, the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) has blacklisted VLE (Village Level Entrepreneur) who enrolled 
  
  
 
 
 Earlier on Tuesday, the CSC official Twitter handle had reportedly tweeted a photo of MS Dhoni's Aadhaar application form. The tweet was later deleted. Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad liked the tweet, without noticing that Dhoni's personal details had been unwittingly made public. He also tweeted a photo of Dhoni giving his bio-metric details to a CSC representative.
 
 Sakshi apprised the minister of the violation by replying to his tweet. 
 
 "Is there any privacy left? Information of   card, including application, is made public property,” she said.
 
 The minister initially denied there had been any such violation and question Sakshi if the tweet had divulged any personal information. 
 
 In response, Sakshi shared the CSC's tweet of Dhoni's Aadhaar details with the minister. 
 
  
  
 
 "Thanks for bringing this to my notice. Sharing personal information is illegal. Serious action will be taken against this," Ravi Shankar Prasad replied.
 
 
 
 Sakshi thanked the IT minister for his "prompt reply".
 
 UIDAI CEO Ajay Bhushan Pandey said an inquiry has been initiated to determine any possible involvement of others and take action as per the Aadhaar Act.
 
 "We have blacklisted VLE (Village Level Entrepreneur) who enrolled 
  
  
  for leaking Aadhaar receipt which carried his personal information. At UIDAI, we are very strict on the privacy issue. We have ordered further inquiry on the matter and action will be taken against all those involved in the leak," Pandey said.
 
 While its original tweet was deleted, CSC later posted the same image of MS Dhoni on Twitter, saying, “Former India cricket captain MD Dhoni updated his Aadhaar details with a home visit by a CSC VLE. A fan moment for Ahsan Ali.”
 
 
