NAGPUR: The   ( ), is confident of completing the work of laying tracks the at-grade section by May.

 The trial run will be undertaken in the second half of 2017. Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis told TOI a few weeks ago that   would roll out by November 2017.
 
 Addressing a press conference on Wednesday, Brijesh Dixit, managing director, of NMRCL, said the work of track laying for the 5.5km-long stretch at grade section had already begun. “We have already started putting gravel on the track. The rails are being manufactured in Jindal’s steel plant in Bhilai. We need about 2,000 tonned of rails for the at-grade section. The delivery is expected in another 15 days. The work on concrete sleeper construction is also going on and will be completed in two weeks,” he said.
 
 The MD said two rakes of three coaches had been sought from Hyderabad Metro for the trial run that will arrive in February. “As per the contract, the Chinese company will take two years to supply coaches to us. Why wait till then,” he said.
 
 On the status of two viaducts over railway lines on the at-grade section, director (projects) Mahesh Kumar said foundation laying has been completed and the piers were ready. “There are 26 spans of which 15 are ready and girder launching of 11 spans is complete,” he added.
 
 NMRCL will construct a temporary station for the trial run — Airport South.
 
 “We want run the Metro from Mihan depot to Airport in the first phase. However, as the station is elevated, we have decided to go for Airport South. Its location will be near our chief project manager (CPM) office. We will raze the old LPG godown building for constructing the station,” Dixit said.
 
 On the trial run, the MD said after it is successful, NMRCL would go for part commercial run. “We will do commercial operations during peak hours and the trial run during off-peak hours,” he added.
 
 The work on erection of 25 KV overhead traction system for electric supply to Metro trains in the at-grade stretch has started. “For fast construction of structure foundation, we have employed mechanized digging and the foundations are being cast using ready mix pouring by concrete mixer truck,” Kumar said.
 
 Meanwhile, NMRCL has decided to start a full-fledged information centre opposite Kasturchand Park. It will provide information in audio-visual format. It will be in the shape of a Metro coach.
 
 
