NEW DELHI: A 100-day priority plan, PowerPoint presentations for the chief minister by each department starting this week, biometric checks on attendance and nearly five dozen officers on extension long after their retirement being shown the door — the   administration is feeling the change under the   government.
 
  The reemployment of nearly 60 senior officers serving in various departments long after their retirement was cancelled on Saturday, said the state chief secretary Rahul Bhatnagar. “There were 78 officers on such extensions… there may be even more as full information is still to come in. We have retained only 18 who are handling technical subjects,” Bhatnagar told ET.
  
  “Some people were holding on to positions for a long time due to their closeness with the (previous) government. Earlier this week, many advisors and chairpersons of corporations were removed. It is good that a big clean-up is happening.”
  
  
 
  
  Serving officers should get a chance, he said, and extensions should not be for more than three months.
  
  Adityanath has asked all departments to come up with a plan to prioritise tasks that can be delivered within the first 100 days of the government to reflect a “visible change” on the ground”, a senior officer close to the CM said. Such targets include filling up of potholes on all state roads and ensuring round-the-clock electricity supply to the four prominent religious cities of Varanasi, Ayodhya, Mathura and Gorakhpur by June 15. The CM is expected to sit through presentations from secretaries from this week.
  
  
 
  
  Among those shown the door are officers in key departments, such as urban development secretary SP Singh, who was perceived to be close to the erstwhile SP regime. The managing director of UP Power Corporation since 2012, AP Mishra, resigned last week after the first meeting chaired by the power minister Shrikant Sharma, who sought to know why UP was the only state which had not signed the ‘Power for All’ agreement with the Centre that could assure 24X7 electricity by 2019. Sharma has directed that the agreement be signed by April 15.
  
  The new government is planning to launch probes into some big-ticket projects of its predecessor, such as the   project, which   has alleged was built at a far higher cost than the standards of the NHAI. 
