PUNE: The ‘Buddy Cop’ system launched by the Pune police some weeks ago was introduced for   working in Rajiv Gandhi IT Park in   and in Eon IT Park in Kharadi for their safety on Friday.

 Another 'CitySafe' cellphone application was also rolled out simultaneously for all citizens to report suspicious activities and objects and to rate places in the city on its safety quotient.
 
 Both initiatives come in the wake of the murders of Rasila Raju at the Hinjewadi facility and   outside her Talawade office in the past few months.
 
 Developed by a team of cyber security experts for the Pune police, both facilities were introduced in a programme organized by   (HIA). 
 
 The Buddy Cop project is expected to be fully operational by mid-April in Hinjewadi, Yerawada, Kharadi and Hadapsar IT pockets in the first phase. The initial testing has been ongoing for some time. The project will be rolled out in phases from Monday in Hinjewadi. A massive force of 10,000 policemen will be allotted approximately 150 women each. 
 
 Cellphone numbers of   will be provided to women employees with whom they can discuss all issues of their safety. Most buddies will be police personnel from the nearest police stations.
 
 Senior officers of the force will also be mapped to all buddy-groups for the next level of redressal in case of the failure of the first level cop to provide a suitable solution to the complainant.
 
 Police also invited citizens to volunteer to support the 24X7 buddy system though selection is expected after a stringent screening process. Police commissioner Rashmi Shukla said, “ I want every woman in the city to have confidence in the police. This will work with the active support of all citizens, especially in the Hinjewadi IT Park.” Shukla also said one street in the IT Park would be converted into a model street.
 
 Women employees who attended the session said it was a good idea. “Our biggest concern is our safety during commuting. If accurate action can be delivered as promised, it will help us,” techie Tanya Khale said.
 
 Another woman employee from Hinjewadi Shweta Balani said, “ Safety of women when they travel by buses and cabs should be ensured. I hope this effort can give us the extra bit of support and confidence.”
 
 Some employees expressed their doubts about its success citing its scale. Police hope to reach out to a maximum number of citizens through a massive publicity campaign over the next few weeks.
 
 
