PATNA: Trade bodies in Bihar are expecting the Centre to announce a slew of packages for infrastructure development in the state so as to make it industry friendly.

 Two days before Union finance minister   is scheduled to present the Budget in Parliament on Wednesday, Bihar   (BCCI) president   told TOI on Monday Bihar urgently deserves special state status as it has been prone to natural calamities, including frequent floods.
 
 “Also, Bihar is an industrially backward state which needs central assistance to compete with developed states of the country. The Union Budget should, therefore, have provisions for infrastructure development in Bihar. Special impetus should be given to health and education sectors, which are crying for immediate attention,” Agrawal said. 
 
 He also underlined the need to put the railway projects, pending in the state for long for various reasons, on track. “The frequency of trains from Patna to major financial stations such as Ahmedabad and Mumbai should be upped. People, including businessmen, face hardship due to non-availability of berths in trains,” he said.
 
 According to BCCI sources, the demonetisation announced in November last year has made small scale industries face a recession-like situation. “This gloomy scenario spawned by notebandi must be factored into by Jaitley while preparing the Budget,” said a BCCI member, preferring anonymity.
 
 Another BCCI functionary said the Centre, which has of late been trumpeting the benefits of cashless economy, must also think about doing away with the POS (point of sale)-related charges. “Small traders’ business is based on small profit margins. The charges levied on cashless transactions should be waived off,” he said.
 
  president   also felt that Bihar should be accorded the status of special category state. “The Union Budget should also allocate funds for the modernisation of Patna airport and police and construction of dedicated expressway to connect all the business corridors of the country,” he said.
 
