Hyderabadi racers   Konda and Ishaan Dodhiwala have become the toast of Indian racing circuit by winning the most coveted races in the country last year. While Anindith was crowned the National Champion Driver in the  , Ishaan won top honours at the  . And in honour of their exploits on the track, these two city boys were recently rewarded by the   (FMSCI) at a gala ceremony held in Hyderabad.
The duo, who received their trophies from the legendary  , the   (FIA) president and former head of Michael Schumacher’s F1 team, are overjoyed. “Our journey has only begun,” remarked the 26-year-old Anindith, going on to add, “I was always passionate about cars and I learned to drive at the age of eight. But I took up racing professionally only two years ago. So I have been around for a very short span. I have set big goals for myself for the future. I’ve set my sights on breaking into the Formula BMW Asia series next year. My ultimate aim is to be a GT car driver in the GT Asia Series and the Lamborghini Super Tropheo.” Ishaan, on the other hand is thrilled to have earned an entry in the VW Golf Championship this year with his win last year. For the 27-year-old who is rearing to prove his mettle with the best in Asia, racing runs in his blood. “My dad was into motorsports for 30 years, and he has had a great influence on me ever since i was a young boy. It’s now time to make a name for myself,” said the racer, who is also an entrepreneur. “Both me and Anindith have our separate businesses as sponsorships are hard to come by, and this is a very expensive sport,” he added. 
 The duo remain committed to improve Hyderabad’s stuttering racing scene. “We’ve been talking to IT Minister KTR about the need to 
 promote local championships in Hyderabad. Tamil Nadu for long had been the hub of motorsport in India. But look at what’s happening in North India. There’s a spike in infrastructure and new tracks. That’s given us inspiration to follow the same model in Hyderabad. Kids need to be groomed from a very young age and trained so that they the best chance to make it big. For that our city needs a system where it’s not just the rich kids that are given the opportunity. Motorsport needs to be accessible to the common man too,” asserted Anindith, on a parting note. 
 
