MUMBAI: Your   could drop by Rs 2 for  , especially those connecting stations to commercial hubs housing colonies. This could be done to compete with fares of   plying on those routes. At the same time, fares on long-distance routes could be marginally hiked. Moreover, the BEST may procure only mini-buses in future.

 These were some of the proposals made at a meeting between BEST general manager Surendrakumar Bagde and BMC commissioner Ajoy Mehta at the civic headquarters on Monday afternoon. Mumbai mayor Vishwanath Mahadeshwar, members of the BEST committee, party group leaders in the civic corporation and BEST union leaders were also present at this meeting. A final report on what has been mutually agreed upon by the BMC and BEST will be presented on July 31.
 
 The BEST, for the first time proposed to use “technology“ to reduce manpower and may come up with a voluntary retirement scheme to trim staff, sources said. A major cut in allowances (medical, transport allowance, etc) is also in the offing, to bring them at par with those of BMC employees. This could mean a cut in salaries of BEST workers which may be opposed by the unions who have already announced a hunger strike from August 1. The mayor said “merging“ of BEST's budget with that of the BMC was proposed at the meeting and many agreed in principle to expedite this process.“If the budgets are merged, then workers should not have any objection to bringing allowances at par. I have also demanded that gross salaries of BEST workers should be at par with those employed in the civic body ,“ he stated.
 
 The BEST also proposes to cut down nearly 100 loss-making routes (which earn 30 paise for every rupee spent), redu ce fleet (from 4,200 in recent past to 3,300 on road) and save around Rs 300-400 crore, sources said. Bagde said BEST will henceforth only wet-lease mini buses, both AC and non-AC.“BEST should run AC mini buses to cater to office rush during peak hours,“ added Mehta.
 
 Additional municipal commissioner Sanjay Mukherjee, also present at the meeting, said BEST can draw more commuters only if it assures `reliability, good service and com fort'. “Wet-leasing buses is the best option,“ he said.
 
 BEST committee chairman Anil Kokil said, “The computerised scheduling system will be stopped from August 1 and replaced by a manual system where we can have the flexibility to deploy more buses according to commuter demand.“ BMC opposition leader Ravi Raja said there was a demand to reduce interest rates on loans taken by BEST from the BMC and increase tenure for repayment.
 
