The makers of 'Manikarnika — The   Of Jhansi', a movie on the life of warrior queen Rani Lakshmibai, have kick-started the project on a grand and auspicious note.  , who plays the lead in the film, along with the crew, unveiled its emblem poster in Varanasi recently. She also performed the famous Ganga Aarti at the Dashashwamedh Ghat, which saw a gathering of thousands of people. It was a fitting beginning to the shoot as Rani Lakshmibai, one of the first heroes of India’s fight for independence from the British, was born in this holy city.

 Talking about the movie, Kangana said, “I am impressed with Kamal Jain’s vision and his ability to gather a top-notch team for this film. This is a dream role and I can’t wait to start filming for this once-in-a-lifetime movie.”
 
 The project boasts of a dream team. The period epic has been written by KV Vijayendra Prasad, who is credited with films like 'Baahubali: The Beginning', 'Bajrangi Bhaijaan' and 'Baahubali — The Conclusion', among 25 other hits. National Award-winner Prasoon Joshi, known to weave magic with his words, is penning the dialogues and lyrics, while the talented trio Shankar-Ehsaan-Loy will score the soundtrack. The film is directed by National Award-winning director   (of 'Gabbar Is Back' fame), who dreamt of making a movie on Rani Lakshmibai even before he entered the industry.
 
 Producer Kamal Jain said, “It’s a great coincidence that our entire team, at some point or the other, dreamt of making a film on Rani Lakshmibai. We are very excited that Punit Goenka and Sujay Kutty of Zee Studios have backed this project from the word go with equal passion. All of us are proud to think that destiny has chosen us and brought us together to bring this great warrior to life.”
 
 Sujay Kutty, business head of Zee Studios, added, “Manikarnika — The Queen Of Jhansi' is a story to be told on celluloid. It is an integral part of our country’s history and we are looking forward to bringing it to Indian and global audiences. We are excited to partner with Kairos Kontent and work with an extremely talented and passionate team.”
 
 
  
 
