This is a great loss for cinema and a personal loss too. A chapter has ended.

 We last met a few months ago and on Wednesday we chatted on the phone and agreed to meet on Friday. He was to come over, before lunch. Instead, I get the news that he's gone.
 
  
  
 I remember his blood-curdling scream from my 1980 film, 'Aakrosh', after the chilling silence throughout. Both  , who scripted it, and I concluded that this was the only way to end a story of human rights violation perpetrated against a victim not educated or empowered to challenge the culprit. This was the oppressed peasant Lahanya Bhiku's way of raising his voice against grave injustice. An expression of repressed rage and helplessness, it rents the air after he axes his sister to save her from the foreman's lust and a fate that drove his wife to suicide.
 
 By the time this scene was shot in Alibaug, Om empathised with Bhiku completely. I just told him I did not want his expression to be either neutral or over-emotional and then left it to him. His screams touched me, like they did every viewer. My reaction was simultaneously a heartfelt 'wow' and the dispassionate 'correct' of a cinematographer-director. They didn't leave Om untouched either.
 
 ' ' in 1983, also scripted by Vijay Tendulkar, traces the life of a reluctant cop pushed into the force by his tyrant father and then betrayed by the system that makes a mockery of the law. Even before the murder of goon-turned politician   (Sadashiv Amrapurkar) which sounds the death knell for Anant Welankar, there are two incidents of police brutality in custody that build up to the horrific climax.
 
 In the first instance, three of Shetty's henchmen are roughed up by Anant. The sub-inspector only escapes suspension due to the machinations of a middleman. In the second instance, in an alcoholic trance, he gives a prisoner accused of a petty theft the third degree.
 
 The latter was filmed in a classroom in St. Columbus High School near Gamdevi in a few hours. We didn't have an action director and I told Om, "Josh me ek do laga dena." I then told the prisoner, played by my assistant, Raju Parsekar, "Sambhal lena." Raju silently took a lot of beating, with Om profusely apologising after every shot.
 
 
 
 
