KOCHI: The impending water crisis and concerns of a scorching summer has put the   officials have forced the officials to device ways to protect the deer population in the park and the green cover. They have already started feeling the pinch of water crisis as plants and trees are showing signs of wilting. The park houses around 240 spotted and sambar deer.

 The officials are planning to put up a canopy for deer to shield them from sun, as there are very few trees in the enclosure. They have also plans to bring changes in the diet of the animals to prevent rise in the body temperature as it could prove dangerous for them, resulting even in death. The forest department had plans to rehabilitate the animals to other locations, but it is still on paper.
 
 Declining water level in ponds and wells have forced the officials to use sprinklers. “We don't know what to do if the situation gets worse in coming months. We use water from three ponds, two wells and the water connection of Kerala Water Authority . Since we need to maintain the vegetation in the garden, we started using sprinklers.There were suggestions to water the ground where deer stand. But the earth is so hard and needs lot of water to keep it cool. So we dropped the proposal and decided to set up a pandal for the animals,“ said palace curator Dinesh.
 
 Currently , the diet of deers in the park include fodder, grass, horsegram and leaves of jackfruit tree. Around 200 kg grass and leaves are given two times to deer every day .Fodder and horsegram are given in the afternoon. Since the park has no resident veterinary doctor, officials seek the help of a doctor in the government dispensary in  .
 
 “I have asked them to give more water to deer to keep their body temperature cool.Watering the ground is another option. So far no deer mortality has been reported in the park spread in less than two acres of land,“ said veterinary doctor Manju.
 
 The move for rehabilitating the deer from the park began several years ago, but has reached nowhere. Currently , the file is with the finance department. The park was started in 1992 with only a small number of deer. but the rising number of it forced officials to rehabilitate teh animals to a safer place.
 
