NASHIK: The organisers of ‘Make In Nashik’ have firmed up   from some of the industrial houses to the tune of about Rs 1,000 crore in  . 

 The formal announcement about the investment proposals from these corporate houses would be make during the ‘Make in Nashik’ event. These investors are expected to sign   during the two-day event in Mumbai, kicking off on May 30. 
 
 “This apart we are working to ensure more investments from few other industries,” stated the organisers. 
 
 Meanwhile, Nashik Industries & Manufacturers’ Association (NIMA) has again appealed to all big industries across the country and abroad to investment in the country’s beautiful city of Nashik, which has no dearth basic infrastructure for establishing industries. 
 
 The ‘Make in Nashik’ event is to be held at Nehru centre in Mumbai on May 30 and 31 in a bid to attract new large industrial projects to Nashik. The event is being held jointly by industries and the state government. 
 
 The sources from the organising committee of ‘Make in Nashik’, said, “We are working approaching and convincing new industries to make investment in Nashik. Few industries have confirmed investment totally worth Rs 1,000 crore under   event. The names of these companies investing in Nashik are to be announced during two day event of Make in Nashik in Mumbai.”
 
 The industries which have confirmed making investment are from engineering, pharma and other sectors. 
 
 “We are also in talks with some industries to invest in Nashik and few projects are also in the pipeline. We expecting more investment in view of the Make in Nashik event,” the sources said. 
 
  NIMA officials on Wednesday held meeting with around 20 industries and urged them to make new investment or expand their facilities.NIMA also urged them to also approach other industries in their contacts and convince them to invest in Nashik. 
 
 Representatives from Jindal Saw Ltd, Holden Medical Ltd, Legrand Ltd, Snowchem, Swastic Papers, Nebel Hygine etc attended the meeting.
 
 Ashish Nahar, Additional Vice-president, NIMA said, “We are taking all efforts to bring large industrial investment here in Nashik. As part of this, we conducted a meeting with 20 large industries here and urged them to invest here. We also appeal to large industries to approach NIMA if they want to invest in Nashik.” 
 
 He added, “We will also urge the government to give good incentives to industries investing in Nashik.”
 
 Moreover, several big industries have been invited for Make in Nashik event. The presentation on Nashik’s investment potential is to be given to them during Make in Nashik event in Mumbai. 
 
