KOLKATA: No one was to blame if some stalls had already run out of stock by 8pm as some 3,000 people thronged   to savour the final day of the   Swade Alhade, presented by The Times of India and Ei Samay. The festival was inaugurated on Friday by  .

 People rushed to make the most of the unique   festival on Sunday which brought 28 food outlets under one roof — Arsalan, Balaram Mullick and Radharaman Mullick, Bawarchi, Bellagio, Bhooter Raja Dilo Bor, Bijoli Grill, C/O Bangali, Country Flavors, Dada Boudi Hotel, Felu Modak, Ghosh & Co, India Restaurant (Kidderpore), Jalbhara Surjya Kr Modak, Khawab, Mitra Café, Kalika, Mughal Shugal, Nalin Chandra Das & Sons, Nandan Creation (Berhampore), Quality Caterers, Restaurant Nandan Berhampore, Swati’s Flavours of Rasgolla, The Feast Street, Kaviar, Nalban Food Park, Apanjan Kalighat, WOW! Momo and Kamal Ice-cream. 
 
 Girish Park resident Shatabdi Basu took her friend Shatavisha Sarkar to relish the delicacies on offer. The duo had a good reason to hit the festival as Sarkar now lives in Bangalore. “I long for Bengali food in Bangalore. So, when my friend suggested Swade Alhade, I instantly grabbed the opportunity. I got to experience some of the best food in the city from the biggest and the most famous outlets. We had a great time,” she said.
 
 It wasn’t just the elders. Kids too strode along the food festival tugging their watchful parents in tow to make the most of the Sunday evening outing. Pritam Sinha (7) from Sovabazar seemingly couldn’t have enough chicken. “I love chicken and ate a lot of it at the festival,” he said. Swarnava Mukherjee (12) nearly dragged his parents to two Momo outlets. The little foodie from Konnagar wasn’t in any mood to stop till his anxious parents prodded him to have desserts. “I had strawberry blossom and kulfi,” he said.
 
 The visitors wished it wouldn’t end so early. “I wish this continued at least for one more day as schools are closed on Monday,” complained Kritika Daw (8) who said she had a lot of chicken kebabs.
 
 
