AURANGABAD: The   have been rain lucky this monsoon. 

 Compared to other districts in the region, Osmanabad, Beed and Latur have received better showers during the four months of rainy season till the end of September. 
 
 Osmanabad reported surplus showers (107%) from June to September, while Beed and Latur registered 99% and 93% of normal rainfall, respectively. Neighbouring Jalna district also had a satisfactory run of monsoon so far with around 95% of normal rainfall. 
 
 Last year too, these   had recorded relatively better rainfall. The only difference was that they had scored over other districts of Marathwada after getting lashed by rain during the returning phase of monsoon and not by the end of September. 
 
 Among the other districts from the region, Nanded (35%), Parbhani (34%) and Hingoli (32%) have been showing maximum monson deficit in Marathwada, official records revealed.
 
 Marathwada, which had witnessed a drought in 2015, has shown certain deficiency in rainfall after witnessing a see-saw monsoon from June to September. The region, comprising eight districts, has reported nearly 82% of normal rainfall. 
 
 The region had reported the highest June rainfall (118%) among six divisions in the state this monsoon season. But it later registered lowest normal rainfall (37%) in July. Marathwada again recorded a surge in rainfall — 107% of normal rain —following revival of monsoon after the second half of August made. However, September brought in a slump with 74% rainfall.
 
 All eight Marathwada districts had recorded surplus rainfall in June, followed by a deficiency in July. The drought-prone districts, along with Jalna, scored over other districts in August by registering surplus showers. Beed reported the maximum 165% of normal rainfall in the third month of monsoon, followed by Latur (144%) and Osmanabad (101%). Jalna also saw a rain bouinty in August with 124% of normal rainfall. In September, only Osmanabad (141%) and Jalna (115%) reported surplus showers.
 
 Osmanabad disaster management officer Vrushali Telore said the good run of monsoon till September would help the district get rid of water tankers during the summer of 2018.
 
 During the 2015 drought, an unprecedented number of water tankers was pressed into service. “It is heartening trend to see drought prone district such as Osmanabad also getting bounty of rain and therefore reducing water related miseries of people,” she said.
 
 The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said no immediate major rainfall activity is likely over   and its nearby areas during next couple of hours. The city could witness rain or thundershowers towards afternoon or evening over a period of next 48-hours, the Met department has said.
 
