NEW DELHI: The discussions at the inaugural session of the National Green Tribunal’s two-day   on Saturday revolved quite a bit around the role of the judiciary, with the government asking that the courts not play an “adversarial role”. 

 While Union finance minister Arun Jaitley stressed that India was at a critical juncture, awaiting growth in various sectors, attorney general Mukul Rohatgi went a step further to propose that the coastal zone regulation (CRZ), which restricts any development within 500 metres of the coast, be “debunked” as tourists were abandoning India for other Southeast Asian countries, and it was time for the government, judiciary and others to sit together and audit if the CRZ regulation was of any good. 
 
 Chief Justice of India JS Khehar retorted to this in his speech, saying environment is not a matter of competition. He also said no court would interfere if projects followed the environmental regulations and standards. Rohtagi said: “What I would like to propose is that we shouldn’t see an environmental court or a tribunal as an adversarial jurisdiction. Today, it has become like an activist on one hand and industry on another hand… an industry is set up, millions of dollars are spent, and then it is challenged. It takes 5 to 10 years to go to the Supreme Court… why shouldn’t we have a consultative process between stakeholders, something like an authority for advance rulings, which you have in income tax. For a mega project, involve NGT, involve government, proponent and stakeholders.” 
 
 Justice Khehar, who delivered the keynote addresses stressing again and again on the need to contain the two degree rise in global temperatures to prevent catastrophic impacts of climate change, said, “Environment is not a matter of competition, not about us and them, but about the humanity,” to which the hall responded with applause. He added, “When a programme is sponsored by the government, it is well within the framework to draw a policy which will protect the environment. You can construct hotels, you can construct whatever you wish, but have in place regulations for environmental protection, and no court can ever interfere. The possibility of interference happens when, say, townships are constructed without appropriately dealing with sewage or other regulations. That’s when the problem emerges, when you allow industrialisation without adequate environmental measures. The policy of the government has to be to allow development in industry, but by taking due care of environment.” 
 
 Jaitley said: “We still have a challenge of pulling out 25% to 30% of our population from below poverty line. Massive urbanisation is still to take place, India yet to see more highways, more rural roads, more airports. There will always be this question. All this development being inevitable, and obviously an adverse impact on environment would take place, what are best practices that can be followed?” 
 
 President Pranab Mukherjee, meanwhile, called for prioritisation and planning of investment in India’s renewable energy programme, which may not be delivered if we continue with the traditional way of thinking. He said children are the “worst sufferers” of adverse impact of pollution and there was a need for an “out-of-the-box” solution.
 
