LUCKNOW: Four days after BJP got clear mandate in  , the   government at Centre expedited its ambitious Atal Mission for Urban Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation ( ) scheme in UP by sanctioning a sum of over Rs 4,200 crore for improving infrastructure of 62 towns, including Ayodhya and Mathura.

 The ministry of urban development on Wednesday called officials of the UP government at a meeting of the apex committee for progress report on the implementation of the AMRUT scheme in the last two financial years before sanctioning another Rs 4,293 crore for UP under the State Annual Action Plan (SAAP). The amount, government sources said, has been released for a period of three years.
 
 Confirming the development, secretary, urban development, Sri Prakash Singh said the amount will be used for improving drinking water supply, installation of se werseptage and development of parks in cities across the state.
 
 “Centre was satisfied with the progress made by the UP government since the inception of scheme in 2014,“ he said, speaking to TOI on phone from New Delhi. He said state government would soon invite proposals for the project from local bodies.
 
 Previously, UP and other states have been getting funds under the scheme on a yearly basis. In 2015-16, UP got Rs 5,200 crore while in 2016-17, a sum of Rs 4,900 crore was released by Centre under the scheme.
 
 This is the first time UP has been given a consolida ted amount for a period of three years. The scheme, covering 62 cities envisages to assure tap water supply and sewerage to every household in the townsdistricts earmarked.
 
 “This is to increase the amenity value of cities by developing greenery and well maintained open spaces (e.g. parks) and reducing pollution by switching to public transport or constructing facilities for nonmotorised transport (e.g.walking and cycling),“ said the AMRUT concept paper.
 
 AMRUT scheme actually improves up on the earlier pattern of executing urban development projects. Earlier, the ministry of urban development used to give project-by-project sanctions. In case of the AMRUT scheme this had been replaced by approval of the SAAP with the states being asked to give project sanctions and approval at their end.
 
 The amount sanctioned by the Centre, according to the paper, will be utilised for capacity building programmes and not for other purposes.
 
