Chennai: After accusing him of having smiled at   working president M K   when he was chief minister, on Monday the ruling   alleged that the DMK members thumped their desks to welcome rebel leader  , indicating their ‘closeness’.

 The former CM’s decision to rebel against   led to political turmoil in the state, and resulted in the two factions of AIADMK fighting over the party’s two leaves symbol. The issue is before the Election Commission. The AIADMK meanwhile minced no words in taking on its arch-rivals. Panneerselvam was, however, not in his seat when the debate raged in the house.
 
 It all started when DMK MLA T Senguttuvan disputed the claims of food minister R Kamaraj that ‘hitches’ in the special PDS was due to OPS. “Weren’t you the food minister then?” the MLA wondered, raising the temperature in the treasury benches. The minister jumped up from his seat to say, “Everyone knows how you (DMK) and he (OPS) got along in the assembly (then), but I don’t want to get into details,” Kamaraj said.
 
 This triggered an uproar with Stalin joining his MLAs to protest. He stood firm in getting a reply from the minister as to how they behaved in the assembly, as such “unnecessary remarks” sought to demean the members of DMK, he said. “Either he should explain or withdraw,” the DMK leader said. 
 
 While his cabinet colleagues chose to remain silent, Kamaraj stood up to say, “You welcomed him (OPS) by thumping desks,” and went on to say that it was not the practice previously. On Stalin’s query as to why the treasury benches thumped their desks, the minister replied that it was a sign of endorsement when leaders of the ruling party were mentioned.
 
 In January, AIADMK general secretary Sasikala alleged that Panneerselvam and Stalin always smiled at each other when the session was on. She repeatedly harped on the alleged camaraderie between the duo for expelling OPS. While OPS retorted, “Difference between human beings and animals is that only one can smile”, Stalin wondered what Sasikala would have done as   too exchanged pleasantries with him. 
 
 
