AURANGABAD: Residents and party corporators alike seem to be opposed to the proposed hike in property tax. 

 Corporators cutting across the party lines on Thursday said that they would not let the proposal pass in standing committee and general body meetings. Corporators opposed the move saying that the municipal body should first improve basic amenities before increasing the tax burden of residents. 
 
 Residents too were vocal about the fact that they think the tax hike is unfair to those who pay regular taxes. Instead of making an exorbitant hike in property tax the   ( ) should bring unrecorded properties under the tax net. 
 
 Opposing it,   opposition leader in AMC said the move would put additional financial burden of the honest tax payers. “A significant number of citizens have been avoiding property tax payments for many years but the municipal authorities are neglecting this issue. On the other hand, the administration is planning to fleece those who are honestly paying their taxes,” he said. 
 
 Jagirdar said hike in tax tariff cannot be a means to raise funds. “There other sources which the municipal authorities should adopt. They should reach out to new property owners and start collecting tax from them. They should also launch aggressive drive against commercial and institutional category properties who have been defaulting on their taxes,” he said. 
 
  leader of the house in the municipal corporation told TOI that tax hike is not justified. “Why should people pay increased tax? Has the municipal administration provided better facilities to citizens? People all over the city are facing water scarcity and they are suffering because of poor roads and broken drainage systems. Let them first make improvements in these areas before thinking of raising taxes,” he said adding that the party corporators would oppose the hike. 
 
 Naser Siddique, MIM group leader in the house said the civic administration should refrain from increasing the tax and concentrate on widening the tax net. “A large number of properties in the city are still out of reach of the authorities which can generate huge revenue for the civic body. Apart from this, the municipal authorities should launch a drive to collect outstanding due from defaulters,” he said. Siddique said he would also raise his voice in the standing committee meeting and demand that the proposal be rejected. 
 
 Meanwhile sources in the civic body told TOI that the standing committee would send the proposal to the general body where it could be rejected. 
 
