MADURAI: As many as 74 persons were injured, four of them critically, as thousands of aficionados thronged the   held in   on Sunday after a gap of two years. Altogether, 18 people were hospitalised even as two   also sustained injuries. 

 The revival of the state’s cultural sport evoked big cheers from the local people who turned up in large numbers to celebrate the occasion. The spirit was seen in the higher number of bulls and tamers as well compared to earlier years. Out of the 919 registered bulls, only 626 underwent medical examination. All the bulls were lined up except 52 which were rejected in the examination. However, due to time constraints only 327 bulls could take part finally. Similarly, out of the 1,257 registered bull tamers, only 717 qualified to participate.
 
 All roads led to   since early morning. With all set for inauguration, terraces and balconies on both sides of the stretch from vadivasal, through which the bulls are let loose to enter the arena, were brimming with people. Revenue minister R B Udayakumar, city police commissioner Shailesh Kumar Yadav, Madurai collector K Veera Raghava Rao and corporation commissioner Sandeep Nanduri took part in the inauguration. 
 
 The event kickstarted at 8 am amid much expectation and fanfare. As per tradition, four temple bulls were brought to the arena for the tamers to offer prayers. Only about 720 tamers turned up on time and they were allowed in batches of 150 at a time after being administered a safety oath.
 
 All safety measures as per the rules of the act passed by the state were in place. Medical teams and ambulances were also around to treat bulls and tamers in case of injury. Double layer fencing of eight feet high was also set up apart from   camera. To enable people to witness the much-awaited event and spread the crowd from vadivasal, six LED screens were installed at vantage points.
 
 However, many complained of poor arrangements like weak barricades and weak stages. Many newsmen and lensmen had to make way for the public who were allowed by the police into the media gallery. A bull tamer said, “As soon as the event started, a portion of the media gallery collapsed. Later, a cement roof of a house also collapsed due to overcrowding. Fortunately, no one sustained serious injuries.” 
 
 Attractive prizes like gearless motorcycles, mobile phones, ceiling fans and large-size utensils for both bull tamers and bulls were distributed to the winners. To emerge as a winner, a tamer had to get hold of the bull’s hump in the area until three jumps by the bull or up to a line drawn a few metres away from vadivasal.
 
 
