SHIMLA: On the pattern of Amma Canteens in Tamil Nadu,   government has started ‘Rajiv Thali’ scheme to provide food to residents at a nominal price. 

 Though the government doesn’t provide any subsidy on the food unlike the scheme in Tamil Nadu, it has become quite popular at four bus stands, where it has been launched so far. Residents can have a thali with two rotis, a bowl of dal, sabzi and rice each at just Rs 25.
 
 The government is now trying to introduce the scheme across all the bus stands in the state.
 
 Himachal Pradesh transport minister G S Bali had come up with the idea in view of frequent complaints from passengers travelling by Himachal Road Transport Corporation ( ) buses regarding overcharging at dhabas, where buses halted during the journey.
 
 Bali said after the success of   scheme, the department is now aiming to provide quality food for passengers travelling by Volvo buses. “Price would be bit higher for such passengers. At present, we are working to identify the places where the facility could be started for Volvo buses,” he added.
 
 Initially, it was difficult for the transport department to find contractors to run the scheme who saw no or marginal profit. “In the beginning, nobody had come forward, forcing us to issue the advertisement twice,” the minister said.
 
 He claimed that the situation has now changed as they roped in an unemployed youth and cooperative societies to run the canteens. “If a person sells 500 thalis in a day and save Rs 2 per plate, his daily income will be Rs 1,000,” he added.
 
 “With the introduction of Rajiv Thali at identified bus stands of state, we have tried to end complaints of overcharging at dhabas. While running the scheme, we have only provided the required infrastructure to keep the thali price nominal,” Bali told TOI.
 
 He said to ensure that quality food is served to people at these canteens, HRTC has provided space and   provided utensils under   initiative.
 
 Bali said customers are also provided packaged drinking water at Rs 5 on no-profit basis. He said to ensure quality of food, officials from HP Civil Supplies Corporation and HRTC have been assigned the task to check these canteens.
 
 Bali said Rajiv Thali is already available at the bus stands of Palampur and Dharamshala of Kangra district, Una and Mandi while it would be made available at identified bus stands of remaining nine districts shortly.
 
 
