
 
  
 
  Besides pradhan mantriji, I met several union ministers after becoming CM. They want to make their contribution to develop Devbhoomi (as Uttarakhand is referred to). Uttarakhand has already got three big projects — all weather road network project along Chardham, Rishikesh-Karnaprayag rail project, and an international airport at Jolly Grant. Land acquisition for the rail project is almost in final stage.
  
  
 
  This issue is under consideration. I recently raised this issue before   in New Delhi. NGT (National Green Tribunal) has made a separate norm for Uttarakhand. For example, they say the cross road slope should be 20 degree. As per Indian Road Congress (IRC) guidelines, it can be up to 60 degree in hill areas. IRC is an expert in the road subject. This particular provision in the ESZ (eco sensitive zone) notification may create problem for us.
  
  
 
  The stretch, which is ahead of Uttarkashi and considered to be strategically significant, may be affected. At the meeting of NITI Aayog, I also suggested to change the name of Pradhan Mantri Gramin Sadak Yojana. In my view, it should be Pradhan Mantri Gramin Sampark Yojana. It may change most of the norms. We may be in a position to use it for connecting villages through ropeways. Hill areas have small villages. It can save the forest also. This scheme will be useful for all hill states.
  
  
 
  He has already given many things to Uttarakhand without our demands. I can tell you that he is one leader who is fully aware about Uttarakhand. Kyunki ye unka sadhna ka sthal hai (Because this is place of his sadhana). Before becoming CM of Gujarat, he was Prabhari of Uttarakhand BJP. Then he used to underline need for all-weather roads in his speeches.
  
  
 
  UP has handed over the control of 33 canals. Besides, it has also transferred about 100 properties (both residential and non-residential) to us. This matter is fast taking shape. Now, officials know that both CMs are keen to resolve these issues. I recently held talks with Yogiji during a meeting of NITI Aayog (which was attended by 28 chief ministers). We (Yogi and him) will hold a meeting after talks at the level of chief secretaries of both the states.
  
  
 
  Bihar ke raste par ham nahin ja sakte (We can’t go on the lines of Bihar). I feel we should look into the practical part of this issue. Kewal kanun banane se koi cheese ruk nahi sakti (You can’t stop anything by making law). So far as our excise policy is concerned, we do not want to promote liquor. We do not want to make it a source of revenue. Sharab par jab bhi pratibandh laga usse duhara nuksan hua (Ban on liquor always resulted in double loss). It paves the way for smuggling of illicit liquor.
  
  
 
  This will be a slow process. Ganga basin is spread in 50,000 square metres. It took about 27 years for the authority accommodating five European countries to clean up Rhine river. I think public awareness is very important.
  
  
 
  UDAN regional connectivity scheme is good for our state. It will strengthen our air connectivity from Chinyalisaur, Gauchar, Pithoragarh and other places in the hill areas. The completion of allweather road project will automatically promote tourism. I want development as per master plan and we are working in this direction. It will also be good if Rishikesh-Karnprayag rail project is declared as a “national project”. 
