KOLKATA:   has come up with   for its next session: any applicant can take the   to be held for individual subjects, far before the   are out; but even if they fare well in the tests, the candidates will also have to score well in their board exams, clearing the Arts or Science aggregate cutoffs and subject score caps.

 This new pattern deviates from the earlier system when   gave equal emphasis on both admission tests as well as the boards exam scores before drawing up the final list. “Only students who meet the Class XII cut-offs as well as secure the desired marks in the entrance tests can expect admission. Usually, Arts sets the aggregate cutoff at 60% and Science 75%. Besides, the candidate will have to fulfil the special academic criteria, set for admission to individual subjects,” a source said. While calculating the aggregate, the authorities will consider the best of five subjects, including English, from this year, instead of the best-of-four earlier.
 
 Also, the university announced a change in dates for admission tests to 16 undergraduate courses from the earlier April 29 and 30 to April 30 and May 1. The WBJEE Board, which conducts the tests, made the alteration following a clash with CBSE dates. The tests, each of 90-minute duration, will be held between 9am and 4.30pm on the two days, eight subjects slated for each day. Once the admission tests are over, every candidate will be given a rank card, which will mention his/her scores in the test. “Every applicant should know how they have fared in the exam. It will bring transparency into the admissions system,” said chairman of the WBJEEB Malayendu Saha.
 
 In the admission tests, every subject will have 50 questions, of two marks each, the medium of writing being English, with an exception to vernacular subjects, such as Bengali and Hindi. Every question will be of multiple choice, with four options. Incorrect response will yield 1/2 (25% negative) marks, no response zero. Leaving out the online mode, pen-and-paper tests are back. So far, the board has suspended exams outside Bengal. “It will depend on the number of applicants,” Saha added.
 
 
