BHATINDA: From administration and policing to the legislative assembly, this is the route a select set of bureaucrats and police officials have been taking in Punjab since the 2012 assembly elections. The number of administration and police officials contesting the state polls has gone up from seven in 2012 to 11 for the 2017 contest. 

 The figure for this year could swell further, as parties are yet to announce candidates from many seats.
 
 Here’s an example: In December 2011, the then principal secretary to chief minister,  , had sought voluntary retirement from service. There was a twist in it — Guru later contested the 2012 assembly elections on a ticket of the ruling SAD from Bhadaur (SAD) constituency.
 
 Much before him, PCS officer Sukhwant Singh Sarao sought pre-mature retirement on September 30, 2011, and contested the same assembly polls on a SAD ticket. Sarao was fielded from Sangrur, but lost too. 
 
 Talking to TOI, social activist Sadhu Ram Kusla claimed that a large number of former bureaucrats and policemen contesting the elections indicated how bureaucracy had been politicised in Punjab. “It is interesting to see how officers remain to be close to politicians even after retiring,” he said.
 
 It is not just former officers who have contested the elections. In 2012, Malerkotla was witness to a competition between the wives of former DGP Izhar Alam and then ADGP Mohammad Mustafa. Alam’s wife, Nissara Khatoon, had won the contest. She was fielded on a SAD ticket.
 
 So far for this election, of the 11 officials in the fray, five are from the IAS, three from the PCS, and one each from IPS, IFS, and PPS. Two of the IAS officers have taken voluntary retirement. Congress has fielded former Moga DC and 2007-batch IAS officer Kuldeep Sing Vaid from Gill assembly constituency and 1981-batch, Madhya Pradesh-cadre, retired IAS officer Amar Singh from   in Ludhiana district.
 
 When asked why parties fielded former officials, Congress vice-president   said it was all about “winning chances”. “It is not because of the positions they enjoyed. The 2012 result is not a referendum for 2017,” he said, when told that only three of seven who contest last time won.
 
 SAD on Tuesday had announced former Mohali DC and 2004-batch IAS officer Tejinder Pal Singh Sidhu from Mohali assembly constituency. Sucha Singh Chhotepur-headed   (APP) has fielded former   (IFS) officer HS Kingra from Faridkot assembly. AAP has fielded former IPS officer Kartar Singh, former PPS officer Sajjan Singh Cheema from Sultanputr Lodhi, and former PCS officer Harbhajan Singh from Jandiala constituency.
 
 SAD secretary general Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa echoed Manpreet’s view on former officers’ “winning chances”. “Also, bureaucrats and cops are in the fray due to their exemplary service records,” he said.
 
 ---------------------------------
 
 Who fought in 2012
 
 IAS officer Darbara Singh Guru: In Dec 2011, the then principal secretary to CM took pre-mature retirement and contested the 2012 assembly polls on a SAD ticket from Bhadaur (SC) constituency, but lost.
 
 IPS officer Paramdeep Singh Gill: The former Punjab DGP retired on Sept 30, 2011, and contested 2012 elections on a SAD ticket from Moga constituency, but lost.
 
 PCS officer Sukhwant Singh Sarao: Took pre-mature retirement on Sept 30, 2011, when he was an ADC in Sangrur. He contested on a SAD ticket in 2012 from Lehragaga, but lost.
 
 PCS officer SR Kler: Took pre-mature retirement on December 2, 2011, and contested on a SAD ticket from Jagraon. He won by a narrow margin of 206 votes.
 
 IAS officer Som Parkash: Took pre-mature retirement in Jan 2009 and contested parliamentary polls that year on a BJP ticket, but lost. He won the 2012 polls from Phagwara.
 
 PCS officer Ajaib Singh Bhatti: Took pre-mature retirement in Dec 2006 and contested the 2007 elections from Nathana constituency on a Congress ticket. He won by 6,650 votes. He repeated the win in 2012 from the newly carved Bhucho assembly segment in Bathinda.
 
 PPS officer Sukhdev Singh Brar: Retired as SSP of Taran Taaran on March 31, 2010. He contested 2012 assembly polls as an independent from Amargarh constituency after he was denied the SAD ticket, but suffered a crushing defeat.
 
