JAIPUR: The   has raised several  , the most important one- if the gang had connections and resources to get hold of the  ?

 The Rajasthan ATS headquarters in Jaipur had received multiple inputs about a gang promising students question papers of National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), finally, when the cops busted the racket on May 7, they found the question paper to be fake. 
 
 However, the officials maintained the gang was desperately trying to get hold of the actual question paper. “They ran an education consultancy firm based in Jaipur and Delhi. They had already taken money in advance, hence, there is a major likelihood that the gang may had pinned their hopes on somebody to provide them real question paper,” an ATS official told TOI. 
 
 On the evening of May 7, the ATS nabbed five personss -three from Jaipur and two from Delhi-for cheating at least 11 candidates by charging them at least Rs 5 lakh each for fake question papers. 
 
 “Uma Shankar Gupta, the kingpin of the racket is a habitual offender. He was booked by Shimla police in 2006 and Telengana police in 2015 in a same fraud case. He ran a company called Edu guides and consultancy which offered medical seats into private medical colleges under management quotas,” the official said.
 
 The wealthy medical aspirants with mediocre academic record were assured backdoor entry into private medical colleges. “We suspect that Gupta also fileded imposters to appear in behalf of candidates in pre-medical tests, however we have yet to corroborate that,” the ATS official said, adding that soon after the NEET was made compulsory to secure a medical seat across India, the gang found its prospects fading due to the new test.
 
 “Earlier different colleges and states had their own admission tests, and hence it was easy to negotiate and find a loophole in the system, but NEET brought a transparency in admissiosn which made it difficult for these gangs to carry out their business as usual,” the official said, adding that to stay afloat the gang tried to leak question papers, but instead provided fake question papers when they failed.
 
