Chandigarh: A Sector 21C resident has alleged that a group of 15 people, who have been camping illegally in a   behind his home, chased him on Sunday morning and pelted stones at him.

 Paramjit Singh, the owner of a house in the sector, alleged that the people attacked him when he had gone to the green belt to check the progess of sanitation work under way there. Though a complaint has been filed at the Sector 19 police station, no case has been registered. The station house officer (SHO) of Sector 19 police station, Daleep Rattan, they had detained a few people who had been living in the green belt to identify the attackers. “The migrants will be instructed to not cause any nuisance around houses,” he said.
 
 This is the second such attack in Sector 21C in two days. On Saturday, Sector 21C resident Sudhakar Kohli was attacked and threatened by the same people when he had asked them not to defecate in the open and litter liquor bottles in the green belt. For the past few weeks, residents of Sector 21C have been complaining that some people have been illegally living in the green belt, creating a nuisance by drinking there at night and getting into argument with each other, and defecating in the open. 
 
 The residents claimed that earlier a few people used to live in the area, but now nearly more than a hundred of them have strarted sitting around the houses. A few weeks ago, residents spent Rs 50,000 on cleanng the green belt and recovered emptied liquor bottles, human waste and other garbage. When the unauthorized persons were asked to keep the area clean, they had pelted stone at houses, residents had claimed.
 
 Paramjit has attached the footage of a CCTV camera in his neighbourhood along with the complaint. A resident, Mohinder Khanna, demanded the administration “take care” of the squatters. “ We spent a lot of money in keeping the surroundings clean. But such nuisance must be taken care of by the administration. Now, it is about our security. I will shift to another locality if this nuisance is not taken care of,” he said.
 
 
