Samikshan Barua, a 32-year-old Bihpuria native, isn't your average binge-watcher. He doesn't subscribe to cable TV or Netflix but still gets his   fix — at the local   that stages plays based on Hollywood hits like Titanic and Superman.

 Till recently, Barua, like many others in  , was out of reach for advertisers. Erratic electric supply had made television pretty much redundant. The local film industry was being stamped out by  . And the only superstar to have recently emerged from the state was the endangered one-horned rhino. "You can almost never finish a TV show in one go," says Barua. "Electricity is a problem."
 
 It's not surprising that Assam's half-a-century-old mobile theatre industry (locally called Bhraymaman theatre) has been flourishing. And now, it has also caught the interest of marketers, who had been scratching their heads on how to crack the country's north-eastern markets.
 
 Dinesh Sibal, who runs Kolkata-based Qconnect, an advertising firm that helps brands get in touch with mobile theatre owners in Assam, claims they have a viewership of five crore a year. Sibal has got brands like ITC Bingo, Parle and Airtel to advertise in these mobile stage shows on banners, posters, stalls and even pay for on-stage mentions.
 
 "Most brand managers are unaware that such a medium even exists," he said. "But those who test the market with us have stuck on." Brands like LIC, SBI and Tata Shakti (roofing) have advertised with Qconnect and the firm's marketing techniques have recently been incorporated into the curriculum of the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad (IIM-A).
 
 "Mobile theatres have been around from the '60s," says Utpal Borpujari, an award-winning film critic and documentary filmmaker from Assam. "However, most of them started prospering in the '80s, after political tensions killed cinema halls in the '70s."
 
 For 240 days in a year, plays based on Anaconda, Jurassic Park and even the search for Osama Bin Laden are enacted in front of audiences of a thousand people by 40 theatre companies, each having two to three performances a day. Tickets cost between Rs 50 and Rs 2,500.
 
 Even big actors from the Assamese film industry take part, adds Borpujari. "Last year, I went for a play in Guwahati at 11pm," he says. "It was a full house. Assamese like seeing their stars sing and dance in front of them. Add great special effects and you have a recipe for success."
 
 According to rough estimates, the turnover of Assam's mobile theatres is pegged at Rs 10 crore a year. Top artistes who travel with these theatres earn anywhere between Rs 30-70 lakh per season. Trailers and featurettes of these theatre shows are uploaded on YouTube and their high-quality production makes it difficult to tell them apart from their 70mm counterparts. There are even websites that provide the annual itinerary of the more popular theatre groups.
 
 Much of this glitz is possible because of the extra cash from commercials. Dulumoni Das, proprietor of Chiranjeeb Theatre, says Maruti Suzuki and Dalmia Cements advertise with his troupe. "We are getting Rs 5 lakh per year each from both brands," said Das, who reached out to Maruti and Dalmia through an agent. "Apart from screening commercials on large screens, we have also given them various properties such as gates and tents. The only condition is that if we have one carmaker, we cannot take on its rival as an advertiser."
 
 "Call it the Woodstock of rural Assam," said brand expert Harish Bijoor. "Good music, good food and a bit of old-fashioned rohi (local brew). Now, bring on the brands!"
 
