BHOPAL: The verbal spat between Congress and   leaders over   leader Akhilesh Yadav’s ‘Donkey of Gujarat’ barb intensified on Saturday. BJP general secretary   jumped into the controversy slamming Congress leader   for his stinging remarks against Prime Minister  . Vijayvargiya said Congress did nothing in 60 years and that is why BJP will have to work hard.

 “At least Digvijaya Singh admitted that development is being done under BJP rule at the Centre. As far as working like donkeys is concerned, when an inefficient government like Congress did not achieve anything for the country in 60 years, it becomes necessary (for BJP) to work hard”, tweeted Vijayvargiya, no stranger to controversies.
 
 He further commented, “Those who engulfed the country like a python are now taunting hardworking people during their inactivity.”
 
 Earlier, Digvijaya Singh had said that the Prime Minister indeed works like a donkey. “Modiji, you very rightly said that you indeed work like a donkey,” tweeted Digvijaya on Thursday.
 
 Digvijay Singh’s remark came on the backdrop of Prime Minister Modi’s assertion that he takes inspiration from loyal and hardworking donkeys.
 
 “The people of this country are my masters, I take inspiration from donkeys because I work for people day and night ... donkeys are loyal to their master,” the Prime Minister had said while addressing an election rally in Bahraich in Uttar Pradesh.
 
 The Prime Minister made the statement targeting Uttar Pradesh chief minister  , who had ridiculed the tourism advertisement for Gujarat that features Bollywood star Amitabh Bachchan.
 
 “There comes an advertisement on television that features donkeys. I will ask the megastar of this century (Amitabh Bachchan) to stop campaigning for donkeys,” Akhilesh Yadav said, while addressing a poll rally in Rae Bareli on February 20.
 
 With Vijayavargiya’s comments, more leaders from BJP, Congress and SP are likely to jump into the fray, till assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh comes to an end.
 
 
