BENGALURU: As summer peaks in the state, water is becoming scarce. With the sweltering heat wave sweeping the state with some intermittent rains, water levels in most reservoirs have started depleting. The message: Residents of Bengaluru city and rural areas will have to use water judiciously till monsoon arrives and even beyond. 

 The   (KRS) reservoir in Mandya, which meets the drinking water requirements of Bengaluru, Mysuru, Mandya and parts of Ramanagara has already hit the dead storage level. The water level was just 71.92 ft on Wednesday as against the level of 80.21 ft. on the corresponding day last year. While the maximum capacity of the reservoir is 124.80 ft., the dead storage level is 74 ft.
 
 Storage in the other 12 major reservoirs too has fallen to a new low and inching closer to the dead storage level. The worst hit are Almatti and Narayanpur reservoirs across Krishna, the lifeline of north  , where many crocodiles were found dead. Experts fear the prevailing situation could spell doom for more crocodiles.
 
 “Crocodiles were caught far from a river. As the water recedes, they often bury themselves in the mud and get trapped there. They can live without food and use their fat reserves for months. So it’s purely a matter of overheating and perhaps drying out. These trapped reptiles will be able to get back to the waters only if it rains soon,’’ said S Shankar, a research biologist. 
 
 According to irrigation department officials, 13 dams have no or less than 5% of live water storage, which is drawable water and most have touched the dead storage, from where water cannot be drained through gravity, to the canals connecting various regions.
 
 “ The recent sporadic rains have given some relief from heat, but not water. We are hoping that south-west monsoon keeps its date and ensure sufficient rains to rejuvenate all our reservoirs at the earliest to avert major crisis,’’ said  , director, Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre.
 
 The   (IMD) has forecast a normal monsoon this year. The irrigation department said early spells could lift water levels in dams but a delay of 15-20 days could trigger a major drinking water crisis, especially in Bengaluru.
 
 While water resources minister M B Patil had, two weeks ago, said the current stock in KRS could be utilized till mid-June to meet the needs of Bengaluru, city development minister   said it could be sufficient till June 10. “I hope the water will last till June 10 and by then the skies would open up,’’ he added. 
 
 Govt to go ahead with cloud seeding plans
 
 The Congress, it seems, cannot afford to have another drought-like situation in Karnataka as it may have a serious impact on the fortunes at 2018 hustings. Therefore, the government is trying to induce rain. Rural development and Panchayat Raj minister H K Patil said the government has decided to try cloud seeding in view of deficient rains and depleting water levels at most reservoirs. “We will discuss about having a programme during monsoon itself without taking any chance,’’ he added.
 
 
