LUCKNOW: The Lucknow junction-Anand Vihar terminal run of the high-end   train is likely to begin before the year ends. “The project stays,” said sources, dispelling doubts arising from the delay in its operation. The railway timetable 2017-18 is very likely to announce the date for the train’s operation on the Lucknow-Delhi sector. 

 Passengers would get to board the train from Lucknow junction of NER. Sources said the division has even contemplated a suitable time slot for the train and it’s just the long wait for the coaches that has kept the train from running between Lucknow and Delhi.
 
 The train was announced in the rail budget 2016-17 and its routes were finalised in the 2016-17 railway timetable. The train was announced to run on Lucknow-Delhi, Chandigarh-Delhi and Mumbai-Goa routes. The timetable shows train running on all six days of the week, except Thursday, between Lucknow and  , stopping only at Kanpur. 
 
 In 2016, railways chose to introduce all its new and talked-about trains from UP, like the luxurious Mahamana Express between Varanasi and New Delhi and the semi-high-speed Gatiman Express between Agra and Delhi. 
 
 Humsafar Express, with GPS-based passenger information system displayed in every coach, a coffee vending machine and the aesthetically done interiors, was also introduced from UP between Gorakhpur and Anand Vihar in December last year. 
 
 Tejas was scheduled to begin its inaugural run from UP but Lucknow missed the opportunity. The first train was flagged off by railway minister Suresh Prabhu on the Mumbai-Goa route on May 22.
 
 “It’s the shortage of coaches that has kept the train from taking off,” said sources. 
 
 Tejas is a semi-high-speed train with modern on board facilities and enhanced passenger comfort manufactured by the Rail Coach Factory, Kapurthala. The newly designed coaches are capable of running at a speed of 200 km/hr.
 
 Coaches have automatic entrance plug-type doors which are used in aircraft. The doors provide better sound and heat insulation and can be controlled by guard panel. Similarly, the gangways or passage between seats has been designed to reduce sound levels and sand, dirt and water ingress. It's fare is higher than of Shatabdi Express.
 
