NEW DELHI:   Tej Bahadur Yadav’s way of highlighting issues with the quality of food served to soldiers at the border has failed to earn him the sympathy of those who have served in the paramilitary while also underlining the challenges faced by the armed forces in enforcing discipline in the time of social media.

 TOI spoke to several retired and serving officers who have worked in central paramilitary forces like BSF, CISF, CRPF, ITBP etc, which consist of almost 10 lakh men responsible for protecting India’s borders, internal security and general law and order.
 
 Former   director general, retired IPS officer Prakash Singh said, “The possibility of inferior quality food and corruption in its supply can never be ruled out as it depends on the officer handling it. It needs a proper enquiry at battalions’ level. But as I know, BSF jawans were always given good quality food and they were always happy”. While many officers agreed that corruption in supplying good quality food for the jawans, raised by  , could be an issue in certain battalions of forces depending on the nature of the respective officer incharge, they believe that it cannot be generalised for the fact that it is the constabulary which, on the basis of available resources, decides what they are going to eat or not.
 
 Another retired IPS officer, who worked in BSF but requested anonymity, said that government provides cash for ration of BSF jawans at international border with Pakistan or Bangladesh. “It’s like cooperative management.
 
 There is a ration committee in which members are mostly constabulary. They decide the menu after discussing with each other, they get the sample of ration which is approved and then they purchase according to the requirement,” said the officer. He added that “BSF jawans are often given non-veg meals four to five days a week, either in lunch or dinner or sometimes both”.
 
 However, what Yadav did was also not right, feel many. There are proper channels of grievance redressal in every force where every jawan can raise such issues instead of putting it on social media, which officers caution, could be dangerous as these forces are engaged in the frontline of the nation’s internal security. An officer who didn’t want to be named warned about the repercussions of Yadav’s act: “Suppose what   has said doesn’t come out to be true; the damage is done to the force which is a dangerous thing”.
 
 
