KOLKATA: The Trinamool-run Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation (BMC) has slapped a Rs 97 lakh tax default notice on the   (CGO) complex, which houses the   (CBI) and the   (ED) offices — central agencies that are   against Trinamool leaders and have been accused by the ruling party of acting as the centre’s stooge.

 CGO is run by the central public works department under the Union government. Besides being the building where high-profile leaders including Trinamool MP Kunal Ghosh, involved in the multi-crore Saradha scam, were grilled and subsequently arrested, the CGO complex is also a known venue for agitations against the Centre by the ruling party.
 
 As the stand-off between the state and the Union government heightens (with the recent arrest of BJP vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar), the property tax notice was officially shot off on Monday by the BMC. Mayor Sabyasachi Dutta told TOI, “Yes, we have sent the notice. Can’t have this building or any other property in the corporation area, defaulting indefinitely.”
 
 The letter has been addressed to the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) office inside the CGO complex. The mayor denied that the corporation’s proactive stance had anything to do with the arrest of two top Trinamool leaders (actor-turned-politician Tapas Paul and Trinamool’s parliamentary party chief Sudip Bandopadhyay). “Why should our routine work — of trying to extract revenue — be seen as political vendetta?” he said.
 
 Political observers are, however, calling this “too co-incidental”. A senior Trinamool leader said, “Didi’s political posturing, her cold calculation that CBI has become a discredited agency and her playing the victim card, while hitting the streets against Modi, which her party members enthusiastically picked up, will continue. Slapping tax notices is just one of the many steps being taken by the party. Her protest against note ban will continue.”
 
 Further, the BMC would sever water connections or withdraw garbage pick-up services, if the dues are not paid.
 
 However, BMC commissioner Alokesh Prasad Roy said, “Notices will also be served to state government owned buildings who have not paid tax over a year. But the CGO complex tops the list of defaulters who should clear the dues within a month.
 
 The mayor said, “The tax has been due since several years. CPWD has not responded to repeated notices.” He added nearly Rs 20 crore is due from various state and central government offices in Salt Lake.
 
 
