GADAG: Villagers went on the  , torching a police station and several vehicles on Sunday in   town of Gadag district, 400km from Bengaluru, after a truck driver reportedly died in the lockup under suspicious circumstances. 

 The violence erupted after   Ganiger alias Guli, 21, from Battur village, who was detained on Saturday evening on charges of transporting sand illegally, died on Sunday. 
 
 Infuriated, 60 people drove into the town, attac- ked Laxmeshwar police station and torched it, besides eight motorcycles and two jeeps, and also destroyed important records, police said. The mob arrived in tractors, wielding sticks and stones before vandalizing the newly constructed police station. His family and fellow villagers alleged that he was tortured to death in custody. 
 
 The police station staff abandoned the premises when the accused's family members and their associates began to gather outside the police station. 
 
 Villagers who led the agitation at the police station alleged that police informed family members that Guli was unconscious in the early hours of Sunday. "When family members rushed to the police station and took him to hospital, he was declared dead. When we asked police, they told us that he had died after a cardiac arrest," they said.
 
 Guli's mother Channavva complained before higher officials that police had assaulted him inhumanely, leading to her son's death. "He was our lone breadwinner. If my son had committed any crime, police could have punished him under law. What was the necessity of assaulting and killing him?" she said.
 
  Laxmeshwar police, however, claimed Shivappa died on the way to hospital and not in the lockup, as was alleged by his relatives. 
 
  "We had detained him on charges of transporting sand illegally. But he fell unconscious at night after developing an illness. We informed his family members and arranged to take him to the local government hospital," they added. 
 
 Later, aggrieved villagers staged a protest and observed a bandh in the town after placing Guli's body in the police station premises for over two hours, before additional forces were deployed and prohibitory orders clamped in the town.
 
  Gadag deputy commissioner Manoja Jain said Rs 25,000 would be given to the bereaved family to conduct Guli's last rites. But the villagers continued to protest, seeking action against Laxmeshwar police sub-inspector Devanand. They were pacified only after IGP, northern range, K Ramachandra Rao, announced the suspension of Devanand as well as driver Ashok Pujar. 
 
 
