Vadodara: For months ahead of monsoon, residents of Atladra-Bill Road were running from pillar to post to find a solution for their ‘kutcha’ road where sewage water was overflowing from drains. 

 Their worst fears came true when the city recently witnessed a downpour and rainwater got mixed with the sewage which had already covered a major stretch of this road. 
 
 But thanks to Vadodara collector P Bharathi’s prompt response on Twitter, after months of struggle residents here are seeing hope. 
 
 Soon after a resident posted the problem of the area on Twitter, Bharathi started coordinating with different departments and roped in district development officer (DDO) Dr Sourabh Pardhi to clean up the mess. Pardhi, on his part, directed officials of the Vadodara Urban Development Authority (VUDA) and the Bill gram panchayat to start clearing the waterlogged area and cleaning the stretch – which had turned into a breeding ground for mosquitoes. 
 
 “Since, we are not implementing an agency, we coordinate with other departments and bodies like VUDA and VMC to resolve the grievances raised by residents,” said Bharathi, who has also posted the progress of the work carried out by DDO on her official twitter account. 
 
 “Since, the stretch was under VUDA’s jurisdiction, we coordinated with VUDA to start patch and repair works for time being. Once, monsoon is over, we will coordinate with VUDA and the gram panchayat to find a permanent solution to this problem,” said Pardhi. 
 
 Ironically, residents who had earlier approached the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) to resolve problems of the area have not received any response so far. 
 
 “The Atladra-Bill Road has one stretch which comes under VMC’s jurisdiction and another which falls under gram panchayat. Although, we had registered complaints regarding pathetic roads, non-availability of street lights on roads and sanitation on VMC’s official portal in May, till date, we have not received any response (not even a call) from the civic body,” said Mukund Mistry. “We have been raising the problems since last one year as due to waterlogging we could not even enter our society. It is only the district collector who has intervened so far. Hopefully, we will get a permanent solution now,” said Divyesh Joshi, an assistant professor, who had raised the problem on the social media platform. 
 
 
