HYDERABAD: Fed up of running around ATM centres in search of cash, a frustrated student damaged glass-panes of two ATM centres at Koti on Tuesday. 

 The student who also got injured in the process, was later detained by the cops, where he claimed that he went to ATM centres after traffic cops detained his bike for not paying pending challans.
 
 The accused Amir Khan, 24, is a student (civil engineering diploma) of Polytechnic college in Malakpet. Amir also works at a coffee shop in King Koti. He is a resident of Santosh Nagar. At 11.30 am on Tuesday, he went to the  's ATM at Koti and found that there was no cash. "Amir said that he at least visited 15 ATM centres since Monday but could not get cash anywhere. Frustrated, Amir, damaged the glass wall of ATM centre using his knee. He repeated the same thing at an adjacent India1ATM centre and in the process, sustained a bleeding injury to his right knee," Sultan Bazar inspector P Shiva Shankar Rao said. 
 
 Locals immediately called the police control room and Sultan Bazar police were alerted about the incident. Cops rushed to the spot and shifted Amir to   for treatment. While police said that Amir resorted to damage of property due to frustration, Amir told media personnel that he became angry after traffic cops seized his bike for not paying pending traffic challans. 
 
 Amir was supposed to pay 1,300 traffic challan. "When I went to withdraw cash to clear challan and get my bike, the ATMs were not dispensing cash. I lost my cool," Amir said. Based on the complaint lodged by the bank representatives, police registered a case against Amir under section 427 (mischief) and section 3 of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property (PDPP) Act 1984. Once Amir gets discharged from the hospital, he will be produced before the court. 
 
 For the last few days, most ATMs across the Old City have been displaying no cash notices. 
 
 "Cashless ATMs force citizens to move one place to another. I have to pay a huge hospital bill and doctors have prescribed an injection which cost about 4,000. I went around several ATMs but to no avail,'' Younous, a patient's attendant told TOI. 
 
 The ATMs in Charminar, Shahalibanda, Khilwat,Yakutpura, Miralam Mandi Road, Hussaini Alam, Puranapul, Tappachabutra, Asif Nagar, Murad Nagar and Jihhrah are without cash.
 
 "We can't have our own money when the need arises. The service provided by various banks is very irksome, the bankers should ensure smooth and transparent service to their customers," one trader said.
 
