CHENNAI: It's been more than a week since the New Year dawned. The party is well and truly over. And those 'I will loose 30 lbs this year' vows are already wearing thin. Wait! There's hope still for the willpower-challenged.

 From monthly sessions with `willpower' consultants, to participating in 'mind over matter' workshops, to taking leaps of faith with fellow 'leapers', those with a will are seeking professional help to find their way to stay true to their vows. At least till the year is out.
 
 It was at the end of December 2016 that Chennai-based BPO exec PM Vijay sat down to make his resolutions for 2017. And like every year, for this wannabe classical musician, playing the mridangam at Chennai's   festival was on top of that list.
 
 “I did not want it to remain unfulfil led this year as well, because it's been my resolution for so many years,“ says the 36-year-old who learned the instrument when in school but later stopped playing. In the New Year, Vijay decided he was going to work with city-based willpower consultant   to keep his resolution on track.
 
 “I now keep meeting up with him on a regular basis and call him whenever I feel demotivated,“ says Vijay, whose consultant has asked him to write down his Margazhi mridangam goal on a piece of paper and read it aloud to himself every day. “Every night I write down what I have to do the next day and make sure I schedule mridangam practice,“ he says, adding that apart from these little visualisation techniques, he has also been asked to do pranayama and yoga exercises to keep himself calm and fit.
 
 Shiv says that besides the one on one sessions he has scheduled through the year, January is rush hour as far as goalsetting and willpower go. “I have a session this Sunday and others scheduled through to February. People like to begin afresh every new year but it's the follow through that I work on with them,“ says Shiv, who lists weight-loss and anger management as people's top two resolutions. After the workshop, Shiv continues to work with his clients over Skype and WhatsApp or one on one if needed.
 
 One of Shiv's January sessions is with a group of “leapers“ intent on seeing their goals through to the finish line. “We try and begin every year with a series of goal-setting workshops, open to anyone,“ says  , of  , a soft skills training company, which hosts the sessions.“While we charge for the workshop, we also have a 'leapers' forum', a not-for-profit offshoot of Giant Leap, where members meet throughout the year to support each other through their goals as well as be inspired by success stories of people who have achieved their goals,“ says Subburaju. Forum members who are serious about achieving their endgame are paired with “accountability“ partners so they do not veer off course.
 
 While most goal-setting workshops cost between Rs 2,500 and Rs 4,000, these 'life transformation' coaches say follow-up sessions and forums don't come at a charge as they are a way of ensuring people stick to their resolutions.
 
 Psychologist and motivational trainer   says that though he believes “any day is the perfect day to set a new goal“, he finds that for some people January 1 seems to be the chosen day.
 
 “I say, why wait for a new year, but this is the way people think,“ says Sundaram, who usually finds that career advancement and making more money are upmost on people's minds in terms of goals.
 
 “But one cannot rule out the fact that there is always a lot of positivity at the beginning of a new year and that is why this is the perfect time to get started,“ says Shiv, who believes that when it comes to goals, it's better to leap before you look.
 
