BHOPAL: Weather took a sudden turn on Thursday evening and   and   were reported from several districts of Madhya Pradesh. Two persons were killed in Ater in Bhind district after a wall collapsed on them during the rains.

 Government is still not alarmed as the rabi crops are still in growing stage and not ripe for harvest. According to the state revenue and agriculture departments, the hailstorms have been more in the Gwalior division while it was negligible in the other areas.
 
 According to the state public relations department, a total 99 villages have been affected by the hailstorms in Gwalior division including 29 in Gwalior district, ten in Morena, ten in Bhind, 27 in Datia, 11 in Mandsaur and 12 in Neemuch. Agricuture department officials said that a total 60,000 acres have been affected where there are standing crops worth approximately Rs 150 crore.
 
 State secretariat has instructed all district collectors of Gwalior division to give an estimate of the damages to crops due to rains accompanied by hailstorm. Rainfall in Morena was recorded at 20.3 mm, Bhind 30.1 mm, Datia 26.8 mm and Shivpuri 16 mm.
 
 Rainfall was also recorded in a much lesser measure of less than 4 mm in Rewa, Burhanpur, Bhopal, Guna, Betul, Sehore, Hoshangabad and Satna. 
 
 "There should be no need to panic since rainfall at these times is good for the growing crops," a top agriculture department official said.
 
  recorded fall of 8 degree from 30 degrees C to 22.6 degrees C after light to moderate showers on Thursday evening. 
 
  department forecasted temperature on Saturday to remain low with no major fluctuation in minimum temperature. "Northerly winds are influencing the weather of the state," said director of Meteorological department Anurag Kashyapi.
 
 Weather department forecasted chances of light thundershower in the districts of Rewa, Sagar, Raisen, Vidisha, Hoshangabad, Betul, Katni, Umaria and Shahdol. Hailstorms could accompany in isolated places of Sagar, Rewa, Vidisha, Raisen, Hoshangabad, Betul, Shahdol, Umaria and Katni districts. There could be dense fog in northern parts of the state and a cold day for entire Rewa division along with Tikamgarh, Chhattarpur and Panna districts.
 
