On Thursday, the   asked the   and the   to remove all the squatters from  's   and declared the area a no-squatting zone. However, when we visited the market on the weekend, the hawkers and street vendors were anything but gone. While shopkeepers told us that the hawkers are a nuisance for them, shoppers feel that they are the essence of the market, which is known for selling everything from clothes and cosmetics to home accessories at cheap prices. 

 
  
  Last year, before Independence Day, squatters in Lajpat Nagar were removed. But when they tried to return after August 15, they were told that it was a no-squatting zone. However, they couldn't be kept away for long
 
 
 When asked if he knew about the court order, Raju Kumar, a shopkeeper in the market, said, "We don't know anything about that. These squatters have been removed in the past as well, but they keep coming back. Iss baar bhi yahi hoga. Thode din ke liye chale jayenge, fir wapas aa jayenge." The hawkers, on the other hand, don’t have clarity on the order. "They removed us last August as well. Pehle humein laga Independence Day ki wajah se hata rahe hain, par baad mein bola ki no-squatting zone hai. Par hum log thode din baad wapas aa gaye thay. Iss baar bhi aa hi jayenge, aur jayenge kahan?" asked Dilip Yadav, a hawker.
 
  
  
 
  Kunal Kumar, another hawker, said, "We have been working here for generations. Where will we go now? People are saying that they will remove us on Tuesday, but nobody has given us this information... ab dekho kya hota hai."
 
 
 Vikas Aggarwal, a shopkeeper at the Central Market told us that the squatters have encroached the entire area outside their shops and it becomes difficult for people to even walk there. "Yeh log aake shops ke baahar baith jate hain. Humare customers aayenge kahan se? Poori market mein inhone bheed kari huyi hai." Shubham Raj, another shopkeeper, added, "Pata nahi kya hoga. Par yeh log wapas aa hi jayenge. Humesha yehi hota hai, thode din jaate hain, phir wapas aa jaate hain. We bear losses because of them, our customers often complain that these hawkers misbehave with them, but they never listen to us. Logon ke peeche pad jate hain samaan bechne ke liye, chahe kisi ko chahiye ho ya nahi."
 
  
  (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
  
 While the hawkers and shopkeepers are divided on the hawking debate, the customers seemed worried about losing their favourite 'bhaiyyas' at the market. Smriti, a student of   told us, "I don't think hawkers should be removed. We are college students, we cannot afford expensive clothes. The stuff we get from these hawkers is not only cheap but also looks fashionable. Pocket money ka bhi toh sochna padta hai."
 
  
  
 
  Soni Sharma, a resident of Saket, added, "I haven't heard anything about the order, but it is sad that the hawkers will be removed. Lajpat koi mall se shopping karne thodi na aata hai? I hope yeh log wapas aa jayein."
 
 
 
 In 1996, 13 people were killed in a bomb blast in Pushpa Market, Lajpat Nagar. The results that were presented before the then Lt Governor concluded that the major hindrance in bringing relief to the casualties were the illegal squatters and hawkers in the market. Following that report, the MCD took a stand and termed the market as the non-squatting zone. But the squatters came back to the market as illegal occupants. Many encroachment drives have taken place in the market to remove illegal squatters and hawkers. But each time the squatters are removed, they manage to come back to the market. In 2015, the Vyapaari Kalyan Mandal (Main) Pushpa Market (The Association of Traders in Lajpat Nagar Main Pushpa Market) filed a writ petition before the Delhi High Court, seeking directions from the court to remove squatters, vendors and hawkers vending in the ‘no squatting zone’.
 
  Last year, when the squatters were removed before Independence Day, members of Footpath Traders Association, Lajpat Nagar, associated with the National Association of Street Vendors of India (NASVI), had questioned the removal of squatters and hawkers as illegal as per the Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Act, 2014. As per the law, the government had to prepare a Town Vending Committee to conduct a survey of all the existing street vendors. The law clearly states, "No street vendor shall be relocated or evicted by local authorities from the place specified in the certificate of vending, unless he has been given thirty days notice for the same in such manner as may be specified in the scheme." But on Thursday, a division bench of the High Court (Justice GS Sistani and Justice Vinod Goel) stated in the order that the authorities will follow the directions to remove the squatters from the area until the Town Vending Committee comes into operation and decides whether the area will be a vending zone or no-vending zone.
 
 
 
