KOCHI: A couple of years ago, some politicians came up with a demand before the  . They wanted it to give “Patta“ on the “Puramboke“ ( ) along the   to its former employees, who have been residing there.

 When a team comprising town planning standing committee members visited the site, they found that it belonged to the corporation. The irony was that the corporation did not have any records to claim ownership of the land. Moreover, the Comptroller and Auditor General had asked the civic body to take immediate measures to take back the land illegally held by former contingent workers.
 
 This is just one case which throws light on the lackadaisical attitude of the corporation when it comes to maintaining a proper asset register.
 
 “As the then town planning committee members raised an objection, the move to give the “Patta“ on the land, which comes to around half an acre, was dropped. The land will fetch the civic body around Rs 15 crore if it is sold at market value," a former councillor said. 
 
 There was a similar move to hand over 50 cents of around two acres owned by the corporation to contingent workers. “The move failed after the members of the town planning committee questioned it. A lobby has been operating to take over the corporation's lands through backdoor deals. It will first get it registered in the names of former contingency workers so that it will be handed over to them after," the former councillor said. 
 
 Just before the last assembly elections, some Congress leaders in Kochi allegedly made a move covertly to give conditional ownership of the corporation's land-about 50 cents of the 2 acres behind the Yathra Auditorium near Boat Jetty Junction to 22 former contingent employees of the civic body.
 
 Or take the case of shops in the city. The corporation owns more than 100 shops in the Ernakulam market. People took up these properties decades ago paying a rent of around Rs 2,000 per month. “Most of them have now subleased them for a rent of up to Rs 2,000 a day,“ said K J Jacob, former opposition leader.
 
 In 1962, authorities of erstwhile   (Kochi became a corporation in 1967), leased out more than half an acre in Fort Kochi to producer TK Pareekkutty to construct a cinema hall. The condition was that Pareekkutty should hand over the land and cinema to the civic body after 30 years. After Pareekkutty's death in 1969, the cinema was handed over to Kokers Group.After 30 years, the local body extended the lease period by ten more years.
 
 In 2002, the corporation moved to reclaim its assets. But Kokers went to court. “The Supreme Court asked the corporation to take over the land after paying up Rs 60 lakh (the value of the structure) to the Kokers. If the corporation shell out that much money , it can claim control over property worth around Rs 15 crore but it has not taken any steps in this regard so far,“ said Benedict Fernandez, councillor from Amaravathy division.
 
