CHENNAI: When it comes to  , coverage for the elderly has always been a sore point. Of par ticular frustration to insurance holders is that   such as cardiovascular disease, cataract, cancer, arthritis, osteoporosis, hypertension and  's disease are in many cases excluded from policies.

 “Inadequate insurance coverage is an issue that particularly affects senior citizens. Many a time, it is after the generation of the hospital bill that they become aware that their policy does not entitle them to medical cover for it,“ said Subbiah Viswanath, COO, Apollo Group of Hospitals.
 
 “Even when people have paid insurance for decades, they could still find that after their annual renewal, certain diseases are excluded. The older people get, the tougher it is for them to access insurance. And even if they do, the premiums are quite high and minimalist in the nature of coverage and certain types of treatment,“ added Viswanath.
 
 Industry estimates are that health insurance coverage in India is poor and the lack of coverage is more pronounced among the elderly population. This is largely due to lack of awareness rather than exclusion from insurers. Health insurance penetration on average is below 3.9% in India, including developed states like TN. But the figures for elderly are estimated to be between 0.5-0.8%, said a   (IIB) official.
 
 But exclusions are still a problem. Lawyer M B Raghavan said the Supreme Court rulings in recent years have to a large extent ensured that elderly people are not denied insurance. “If a person has been taking insurance for decades, the insurer cannot refuse to renew. It is also now more difficult for them to increase the premium amount,“ he said. Seeing a rise in such cases between 2005-10, the   in 2013 came up with specific regulations.
 
 “Loading of premiums was occurring earlier. With the new regulations, loading on a single policy is no longer possible. Today , if an insurer wants to increase premium, he has to increase for his whole portfolio of retail policies,“ said Puneet Sahni, head, product development, SBI General Insurance.
 
 Such regulatory changes have curbed insurers' tendency to hike premiums by 30-40% soon after a large claim. Doctors say the state government's health insurance scheme is immensely beneficial to elderly people who live in penury. “I have seen many beneficiaries of the scheme. But the scope of coverage should be increased,“ said geriatrics specialist Dr V S Natarajan.
 
 Gender disparity in taking up insurance is also a problem.
 
 
 
 
 A group of senior citizens on Tuesday submitted a memorandum to minister of social welfare V Saroja, asking her to usher in more reforms in the city's old age homes. They sought the setting up of a committee to look into the functioning of old age homes and ensure inspections are undertaken from time to time. “We also asked the minister to ensure occupants in these homes are vaccinated regularly and a dietitian be appointed to make sure they have access to nutritious food,“ said geriatric physician V S Natarajan who raised the demands on behalf of senior citizens.Last year, the state government had issued an order, revising minimum and essential standards for old age homes run by NGOs following a petition in the Madras high court. Around 8% of the city's population comprises senior citizens, the largest among all metros apart from Kolkata (10%).According to the National Alliance of Senior Citizens Association of India, there are around 40 old age homes in Chennai.
 
