Mumbai: Homegrown private equity investor   has sold a 3% stake in Ahmedabad-based   to   for Rs 690 crore ($106 million), people with direct knowledge of the matter said. 

 The secondary transaction valued Intas at Rs 23,000 crore or $3.5 billion, making it the most valued, privately held Indian pharma company. Intas is among the country’s top 10 pharma companies with Rs 6,600 crore ($1 billion) revenue in FY16, and has 2.8% share of the domestic market. Hasmukh Chudgar, worth over $2.6 billion, founded Intas 40 years ago. He remains chairman, while sons Binish, Nimish and Urmish run the management now.
 
 ChrysCapital will continue to hold a 3% stake in Intas, making it the longest and probably the most successful private equity investment in the country. ChrysCapital had initially invested Rs 50 crore for slightly over 10% stake in the company in 2005, and subsequently added another 6% more. It sold 10.16% to Singapore’s  , valuing Intas at $1.5 billion in 2014, raking in about a 20-fold gain.
 
 Capital International pipped global peers   and   in the latest transaction. Investment bank Moelis & Co advised on the transaction. ChrysCapital and Intas could not be reached for comments over the weekend. The more than doubling of Intas’ valuation in last three years comes at a time when Indian pharma sector is clouded by uncertainties in US markets, along with FDA investigations and warnings to several companies. 
 
 Intas is the fourth largest pharma player in Indian chronic illness market with a share of 5.3%, according to IMS data. It also has presence in cardiovascular system, diabetology, gynaecology, respiratory care, gastroenterology and most other therapeutic segments. In October last year, Intas acquired Actavis UK and Ireland from Israel’s generic drug giant Teva for $750 million in an all-cash transaction, boosting its international operations. Intas garners 60% revenue from over 70 global markets. 
 
 Intas was the first pharma investment for ChrysCapital, arguably the most successful investor in the sector. Its other investments include Mankind Pharma, Zydus, Eris Lifesciences Torrent, GVK Bio and Ipca Labs. ChrysCapital had invested Rs 350 crore to build 16.8% stake in Intas, and has netted around Rs 1,600 crore, while still retaining slightly over 3% stake. In 2015, it had sold 11% stake in Mankind to Capital International for $214 million, after investing $24 million in 2007.
 
 Capital International Private Equity Funds, part of Capital Group of Companies, of the world’s biggest asset managers, buys into established privately run companies in emerging markets, including India. It first invested in India with Multi Screen Media (MSM) owned by Sony Television Network. Some of its other Indian investments included Mindtree, Manipal Global and L&T Finance.
 
 
