RANCHI: The three youngsters, who were abducted by   and rescued on Saturday, were lured by a   and  ,   (SSP) (Ranchi district)   said on Sunday. 

 Briefing reporters on the operation which was conducted to rescue the three youngsters, Shivam Singh, Gaurav Singh and Shanky Singh, Dwivedi said, "Alia Ansari (30) befriended Shivam and the duo decided to hang out together on September 5. Fourteen persons, including Alia, have been arrested. Five others, including the mastermind Sonar, are still at large."
 
 The SSP said the trio were abducted on September 4 in a well-planned manner and was rescued 17 days later by a joint team of Ranchi and West Singhbhum district police. "The gang had carefully planned the operation and even carried out recce to chart out their escape route after the abduction. The abductors had begun planning the abduction on August 22. They wanted to kidnap Shivam but since he was accompanied by Gaurav and Shanky, the kidnappers had to take them along with them," Dwivedi said.
 
 The family members of the the abducted youths also received ransom calls from the kidnappers who demanded Rs 20 crore for their children's release.
 
 "A special investigation team was constituted to track the kidnappers. We ensured that the abductors did not realise that we were closing on on them. I instructed all police stations to begin probing those with criminal backgrounds. We also began feeding misinformation to some people whom we suspected of being involved in the crime. The abductors failed to learn about any police movement," the SSP said.
 
 Ranchi district police, along with their counterparts in Chaibasa, managed to track down the accused in Saranda forest. 
 
 "The kidnappers drugged and tied the trio to prevent them from escaping. On getting information, we started keeping an eye on the locality where the boys were holed up. We chalked out escape routes the kidnappers could have possibly taken," the SSP said.
 
 He added, "On Saturday, the kidnappers left their hideout with the three youths in a car. We intercepted the vehicle and arrested the accused present in the car. Based on their information, we rounded up other members of the gang. We are now on the lookout for the absconding kidnappers."
 
 
