Their first meeting was in August 1979, when   was just 19, a first year student at the Aligarh Muslim University. It was her first visit to Mumbai with her director brother, Ranjit Kapoor, her bhabhi, and their daughter.   came to receive them at the station and drove them straight to Prithvi theatre where rehearsals for the play, 'Bichoo', were on. Spotting the two ladies,   who was on stage, announced with a theatrical flourish, "Disha aa gayi hai aur sharmati hui koi aur bhi unke saath aayi hain...." His words made them shy, reserved teenager blush. "We instantly forged a karmic connection," she says. It would, despite all the turmoil, last a lifetime.

 "All my brother's friends I addressed as bhai or bhaisaab, but he was always Puri saab for me, never Om bhai, and I was happy that on raksha bandhan he got only one rakhi for me to tie around my brother's wrist," Seema reminisces 38 years later, looking at the garlanded photograph of her former husband in her living room, still finding it hard to believe that the man she's loved all her life is no more.
 
 He was equally enamoured by her, so much so that he ensured she missed her 9 pm train to  , deliberately turning up late with her ticket. After packing off her brother and his family to Delhi the next morning, he whisked her off on a Mumbai darshan, Jaidev Hattangadi driving a scooter, Om sitting behind him and Seema riding in the sidecar.
 
 That evening, when it was time for her train to leave, they both burst into tears. Then, for almost a year, they didn't meet till Seema bumped into Om in Delhi when down to visit her brother. The day she was leaving, Om offered to drop her to the bus stand. While bidding her goodbye, he boldly shook her hand and slipped a piece of paper in her palm. Seema, disconcerted by the touch of his hand, agonised over what she believed was a love letter all through the two-hour journey back, wondering how she was going to broach the subject of love and marriage with a struggling actor 10 years older than her with her parents. It wasn't till she had reached Aligarh that she discovered that what she believed was a love letter was actually twenty rupees note.
 
 After completing her studies, she moved to Delhi and took a room where Om would visit her. Occasionally, she let him stay the night. Once, when he was taking a bus to Ludhiana, he borrowed Rs 20 from her, which he never returned. Today, the mention of a twenty rupees note has her tearing up. "I never wanted his money or his property. He was my property," Seema says emotionally.
 
 Simply dressed in a churidar and kurta, she is a picture of grace, dignity and reserve. It's hard to imagine that this small town, conservative girl became a krantikari, taking Om home to   and introducing him to her family and friends as her 'boyfriend' back in the '80s. "When Puri saab was around, I wasn't scared of anything or anyone," admits Seema who never spoke about marriage to him. It was Om's father who wanted them to tie the knot, not happy with some of his new friends.
 
 "Bauji loved me like his daughter and in 1989, he'd turn up at my brother's ( ) home every morning at 5 am urging him to ask me to marry Puri saab. Finally, Annu bhai asked Puri saab to stop bauji. He then landed up in Jhalawar with bauji, asking my mother for my hand. My father had passed away just six months ago and she was hesitant but Puri saab insisted we get engaged. It was all so sudden, we couldn't even inform Annu bhai and he was really upset," she flashbacks.
 
 They tied the knot on February 28, 1990, but didn't live happily ever after. Towards the end of 1991, Om confessed that another woman ( ) had come into his life and he wanted a divorce. She quietly consented and went away, deaf to all those who insisted that he should be punished for leaving her.
 
 Another woman might have moved on but for Seema her Puri saab was the only man she's ever loved. And when he returned to her, asking for forgiveness, wanting to spend his old age with her, she couldn't turn him away.
 
 For the last seven years she was his constant companion, the first person he saw when he gained consciousness after a surgery last year. Like a child, he demanded tea, then food, getting his driver, Mishraji, to film a video of her feeding him seven rotis on his cell phone which he'd show friends. She wishes she had at least that video to remember him by.
 
 For six years Om was engaged in a legal battle with his second wife Nandita and last year they went for a legal separation. Seema offered solace in the midst of the storm, taking him to Bodh Gaya and introducing him to Buddha's positive vibrations that left both of them crying and disciplining him on diet and exercise. He reciprocated by surprising her one afternoon with a meal of dal, sabzi and rotis he had made himself in 30 minutes, after he'd invited himself over for lunch when she was away at work and the cook hadn't turned up.
 
 She admits the last year and a half was difficult for him and he was drinking heavily. "He's been taking depression pills for the last 12-13 years and this coupled with the alcohol had taken a toll on his health," reveals Seema, shocked by his appearance after he returned from a schedule in Manali and she from her shoot in Lucknow. "I was upset with him for drinking so much and I told him he should only come back to me after he had quit liquor. He called me that evening and told me he wanted to say something in Hindi," she recalls, adding with a laugh that her Hindi has always been good and helped him improve his own. "Prayashchit, pashchataap and sandhi...Sandhi kar lein? I told him sandhi referred to war and peace treaty. I had no jhagdha with him. I just wanted what was good for him."
 
 She admits they argued frequently but the 'jhagdas' were short-lived, ending after a night's sleep and with a laugh. This time too, she couldn't stay angry with him for long.
 
 On the evening of January 5, when she was in the editing studio, he called several times. When she took the call he wanted to know where she picked up grain for the birds she fed every day. "He'd loved watching the birds with me," she muses, looking at a sparrow peck on his feeding bowl. As if on cue, the garland around his photograph slips and Seema says, "See, he's listening to everything I'm saying."
 
 She goes on to reveal that he was planning to file for divorce on January 16 with the intention of closing his chapter with Nandita. After that he wanted to spend time with Sema at her mother's home in Jhalawar. He loved going back to the former princely state he'd first visited with her in 1981, where he was a jamai babu, jiju and bhaiya to everyone and not a movie star. "He visited frequently in the last seven years. Whenever there, he'd go shopping every morning and buy so many vegetables that we had to distribute them among four families. He had developed an interest in gardening. We were looking forward to spending our last years there," sighs Seema, happy that she could bid him goodbye with a chautha at a gurdwara. "He was happiest in a gurdwara. He had taken me to Amritsar twice and Patiala once, I felt his presence there," she says. After the 13-day ritual she's planning to go home to Jhalawar but this time without him.
 
