KOLKATA:   (18) was in the hospital, about 100 km from his home, even the day before his   began. The worry that he might not be able to appear for his exam was intolerable. But his doctors kept telling him not to worry. On exam day, Santosh was at the centre - the hospital arranged his travel from Howrah to  .

 Jana suffered from ventricular septal defect (VSD, a hole in his heart with a defective valve (a congenital defect).His parents from Midnapore's Basudebpur could not afford surgery for correcting the defect.
 
 When consultant paediatric cardiologist Amitabha Chattopadhyay came know about it, he suggested the boy undergo surgery under the Sishhu Sathi Scheme of the state government.
 
 In January this year, the boy was brought to   (NSH) Howrah where cardiac surgeon Debasis Das operated on him to close the hole. He also had a valve replacement surgery . Post-surgery , he was under blood-thinning medication. But the blood level kept shooting up, again leading to hospital admission.
 
 “The boy was brought back to the hospital on March 11with bleeding from the mouth and the gum along with severe chest and abdominal pain. His examination started from March 15,“ said Dr Chattopadhyay .
 
 The doctors suggested the boy sit for the examination from the hospital. But Santosh's barely-literate father did not know how to go about it. That is when doctors decided they will help the boy .For the next four days, expensive medications that the parents could not afford and special attention and care were given to assure he would sit for the exam.“I have a daughter who is writing her Class-XII board examination. I could have felt the pain of a father if my daughter had to lose a year,“ said Dr Chattopadhyay .
 
 On March 15, doctors woke the boy up at 6am and asked him to get ready .The hospital arranged a car and the boy was off to his examination centre, some 100km away .
 
 “At night, doctors told me to sleep well so that I could sit for the test. I was wondering how. I felt fit in the morning.In addition to arranging my travel, a doctor also accompanied me to the school,“ said Santosh.
 
 “If it was not for the support of doctors at NSH, Howrah, my son is would have surely lost a year. They have also told me to call them up anytime if my son faces health issues,“ said father Ekadashi Jana.
 
