Mangaluru: School teachers in DK district - especially those in rural areas - will have a new task from this academic year. They will play traffic cops post school hours to ensure that students safely cross the road on their way home as per a decision taken at the general meeting of Dakshina Kannada zilla panchayat. 

 The department of public instruction will undertake the task of sensitizing teachers to this new role to ensure that precious lives are not lost to road accidents.
 
 This follows a direction that M R Ravi, ZP chief executive officer gave at the meeting. Incidentally, the issue figured in the agenda of the meeting where members expressed concern over death of a student after a tipper lorry hit her while she was on her way home in Puttur and repeated road accidents in Someshwar zilla panchayat constituency limits. The members wanted various stakeholders to act on the issue effectively and reduce such accidents.
 
 The executive engineers of national highways division, Mangaluru and public works department in the respective written replies to the zilla panchayat maintained that they have put caution signs in the vicinity of all schools and educational institutions in their jurisdiction, warning motorists to the presence of schools. PWD has also taken steps to scientifically construct road humps in places indicated by the police.
 
 Sucharitha Shetty, ZP member, says the problem is acute in his constituency and this is exaggerated by the fact that a state highway passing through Bangabettu and Mijar has since been upgraded into a national highway. “Nearly 800-odd students here have to cross the highway reach a common playground and this puts their lives and limbs at stake,” he says while there have been no fatal accidents thus far, the situation calls for caution. 
 
 M R Ravi put the onus on the department of public instruction directing the deputy director Walter D’Mello to sensitize school teachers in the run up to the schools reopening and help students, especially the younger ones cross the road safely. “It does not take more than 5 to 15 minutes post school,” he surmised. There are 1,047 lower primary and higher primary schools and 314 high schools in rural parts of Dakshina Kannada district.
 
 QUOTE HANGER
 
 We have held a meeting with stakeholders – parents, teachers, heads of educational institutions in Dakshina Kannada -in this meeting. The district police have come up with specific guidelines to ensure that students reach schools and their homes safely. We will extend all support to educational institutions in ensuring safety of the students
 
 Bhushan Gulabrao Borase, superintendent of police, Dakshina Kannada district
 
 
