PANAJI:   punished   for defensive frailties and wayward shooting with a 3-1victory in a   Group `B'   match at the   stadium in Bambolim on Monday. The North East state, shock champions in 2014, led 2-1 at halftime after taking an early lead through   who accepted a gift from the Maharashtra defence just seven minutes into the match.

 Maharashtra equalized in the 11th minute when Rahul Das blasted into the net after picking up a rebound in the area. Mizoram regained the lead two minutes from halftime, Lalfakzuala Fakzuala volleying home in style after Lalbiakhlua played into the area. Lalcchuanawma made it 3-1in the 51st minute.
 
 Punjab start with a win
 
 Striker Rajbir Singh gave Punjab a perfect start as the eight-time champions got the better of Railways 2-1 in their opening match of Group B at Rosary ground, Navelim in Margao, on Monday , reports Flavio Lopes.
 
 Punjab last won the coveted trophy a decade ago and hopes to reclaim the title were put on the right track by Rajbir with a goal in each session. Railways striker Rajesh Soosanayakam was closely marked by the Punjab defence but when he had his only shot at goal in the 58th minute, it resulted in a goal.
 
 The men in yellow tried to impress with their fiery flair and were all over the rival territory . Punjab had five set pieces in the first minutes but were disappointing each time. However, they finally struck in the 16th minute when Rajbir leaped highest between centre-backs to head in a free-kick taken by skipper Harshdeep Singh.
 
 Bagan youth team barred
 
 The Mohun Bagan junior team has been barred from taking part in the main round of the under-18 Youth League after the club was found guilty of fielding an overage player during the zonal phase of the tournament.
 
 It has been learnt that during their second match of the campaign, against SAI on November 22 last year, Subhankar Adhikary -who has been accused of being overage -started for Mohun Bagan, who won 1-0.
 
 With Mohun Bagan now disqualified, East Bengal have been made group toppers and United SC, who finished third, will join them in the main round as the second team from the city zone.
 
 
