KOLKATA: Cops investigating into the Audi hit-and-run case have had a tough time preparing the chargesheet but a year on, they have proved their critics wrong. In spite of apprehensions from several quarters, the homicide squad of   has ensured that  , the prime accused, remains behind bars. As the case awaits trial, the cops said the key to the chargesheet was to treat the accident spot as a protected venue and not merely a road.

 “When we were preparing the chargesheet and collecting evidence for it, our aim was clear. We focussed only on murder charge. We went back to each little detail leading to the accident. We gathered forensic evidence, witness accounts and CCTV footage evidence of how the accused had ignored warnings of cops at several places,” said an investigating officer.
 
 Police went into the minute details of the case while preparing the chargesheet. “Sohrab had left the metalled road and chose to drive on open grounds near the Hooghly bridge approach immediately after the first warning. He was warned the second time about the ongoing rehearsals up ahead but he chose to break through a second barrier at South Gate. He broke a third barrier at the JK Island at the Fort William gates on Red Road. When he finally took the U-turn back on to the  , his car hit the scabre of an officer. Once again he hit did not stop. The car hit   head-on, flinging him into the air but the accused sped on. It was only after hitting another barrier near South Gate on the opposite direction that the air bag inflated and the car came to a stop,” said an officer.
 
 According to the investigating team, almost all witnesses positively identified the accused at two separate test identification parades. Thirteen witnesses present at the first TI parade had identified   as the driver of the Audi that run over IAF corporal Gaud. The police maintained that a crucial Indian Army jawan too identified the driver in the second TI parade. The jawan was part of the Army band and was on the extreme left from where he had a clear view of the accused.
 
 
