Trichy: Keeping in mind justice for women, the national commission for women has embarked on a move to make young women aware of women-related laws. As part of this effort, they conducted a two-day programme for 60 women students from colleges from five districts in the Trichy region on Wednesday. 

 Stating that the primary mandate of the NCW was to seek justice for women, safeguard their rights and promote women’s empowerment, the committee prepared a “standardised module for legal awareness programme about women-related laws”. Taking the effort of the NCW forward, district social welfare office (DSWO) in Trichy organised the programme to be held for two days on Wednesday and Thursday. DSWO picked four women students each from three colleges in five districts – Ariyalur, Perambalur, Pudukkottai, Thanjavur and Trichy to participate in the programme. 
 
 Magistrate S Geetha, the secretary of district legal services authority (DLSA), Trichy inaugurated the camp by giving an overview of the existing laws to protect women. The first day of the programme gave ample exposure to the students about the plethora of laws to protect women from being victimised in house, workplace, public place or anywhere else.
 
 “As per 2011 census, Indian population is 1.21 billion a majority of which live in villages. They are not even aware of the basic laws. Even the urban population is not aware of laws and the procedures. Success of statute depends on its awareness; many a times ignorance becomes the reason for its failure. For the success, peace, development and effective administration of justice in a society, legal literacy is must,” reads the module given to the students. 
 
 The purpose of the module is basically to describe the syllabus/laws with regard to which the legal awareness programme is required to be organised. The chapters in the module cover a detailed list of women-related laws, their salient features and remedies available under different laws. District social welfare officer S Usha said that the participants will attend a camp in Trichy district court where legal experts will talk about various topics related to women on the second day of the programme on Thursday.
 
 
