For the first time in the history of  , a couple sought their divorce on online calling facility,  . On Saturday, the applicant husband flew down from Singapore to present his side to the court, while the wife could not come down from London due to  . The   took this opportunity to do something never seen before — they allowed her to present her side on Skype.

 The couple had filed their divorce petition by mutual consent under Section 13B of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955, before VS Malkanpatte-Reddy, civil judge of the senior division, on August 12, 2016.
 
 The petition comprised a narrative of what resulted in the marriage’s breakdown. The couple studied at the same college, where they fell in love. Their marriage was solemnised according to Hindu rituals on May 9, 2015, in Amravati. They soon shifted to Pune and began working at two different companies in Hinjewadi. They later purchased a flat in Pimple-Saudagar.
 
 Just a month later, both got an opportunity to work abroad. The husband was selected for a job in Singapore, whereas the wife had to fly to London. While he took the Singapore job, she stayed back. She had said that she really wanted to fly abroad, but that her “marriage was hindering her career”.
 
 The petition further says that this led to a vast difference of opinion, emphasising their paradoxical natures and ideas of life. They decided to separate and started living apart since June 30, 2015. They filed a petition for divorce by mutual consent in 2016 along with an affidavit from their parents.
 
 Advocate Suchit Mundada appeared before court on behalf of both the husband and wife.
 
 After filing their petition for divorce, the wife also moved to London. The terms and conditions of her new job did not let her appear before the court physically for the hearing. So, Mundada filed an application seeking permission to conduct the trial by video conferencing, which the court agreed to. The wife called from London, while the husband was present in court here.
 
 Mundada told Pune Mirror, “This the first case in Pune where the divorce decree under Section 13 B has been granted through video conferencing. The court has stated in its order that it has conducted the trial and considered the contentions of the petition along with the respective affidavits. It transpired that the parties have been living separately since June 30, 2015. They have not able to live compassionately and have mutually agreed that their marriage should be dissolved.”
 
 
 ¦ This the first case in Pune where the divorce decree under Section 13 B has been granted through video conferencing
 
 — Advocate Suchit Mundada, lawyer appearing for both the husband and wife
 
