HYDERABAD: With a 30% rise in crime against children in one year (2014 and 2015), absence of a child rights commission in Telangana has left thousands of children in a vulnerable state. While many NGOs are working in the area of child welfare, non-constitution of   for the   ( ) has led to piling up of child abuse cases.

 The SCPCR is a statutory body with powers to address issues and also judicial powers to hear petitions and dispose cases related to child abuse. Tenure of the last member of SCPCR concluded last month.“During my tenure, I disposed 198 cases and took suo-moto action in 33 cases. But now, due to absence of a state-level child rights panel, there is no authorised body where people can submit their complaints related to violation of child rights,“ said Achyutha Rao, former member of SCPCR.
 
 The 6-member commission was constituted in February 2014, a year after the Supreme Court urged 19 states including Andhra Pradesh to constitute a commission under Section 17 of the commission for the Protection of Child Rights Act, 2005.
 
 However, within four months of its constitution, the commission was bifurcated after the two states separated in June. While three members joined the AP cadre, the other three worked for Telangana.
 
 The SCPCR now stands dissolved, and the state government's failure in constituting a fresh commission has led to piling up of cases at the national level. “There are so many cases which are directed from the National Commission for the Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) to the state women and child welfare department for enquiry . Since there is no state-level commission, all are cases are pending,“ explained Rao, adding how a recent case of a Telangana-based child working as a labourer in Odisha could not be enquired due to absence of SCPCR.
 
 Other members too share how the government has done precious little to protect child rights. “The government does not want any commission which can give them recommendations or orders on children related issues. If they were keen they would have notified to recruit fresh members,“ said  , former member of SCPCR.
 
