Amravati: Miracles happened in elections to chairmen and deputy chairmen’s posts at ten panchayat samitis (PS) in Amravati district. While Congress succeeded to clinch chairman’s post at four Panchayat Samitis, BJP surprisingly got only two. NCP and Shiv Sena succeeded in winning one chairman’s post each while at two panchayat samitis the independents bagged the chairman’s posts.

 Congress and Shiv Sena joined hands to keep BJP at bay in Amravati, Bhatkuli and Nandgaon Khandeshwar. BJP could install its chairman at Anjangaon Surji and Morshi only while NCP, despite having just one member in the PS House, clinched the chairman’s post. Independents ruled in Chandur Bazar and Daryapur.
 
 At Amravati PS, Congress MLA Yashomati Thakur manevoured the moves successfully and secured unconditional support of Shivsena to install Shaha Wahidabi Yusuf as chairperson and Balasaheb alias Sunil Dinkar Deshmukh as her deputy. In turn, Congress extended unconditional support to Shiv Sena at Bhatkuli and enabled Karuna Koltake of Sena to win the chairperson’s post. BJP’s Kalpana Chakre got elected as deputy chairperson.
 
 Congress-Shiv Sena alliance also ruled at Nandgaon Khandeshwar where Congress’s Nana Ingle and Sena’s Vijay Aakhre won as chairman and deputy chairman respectively, defeating BSP’s Pandurang Ghode and BJP’s Kanta Sawant.
 
 Sena, however, tied with BJP at Anjangaon Surji where BJP’s Priyanka Dalu and Sena’s Mahesh Kharode won as chairperson and deputy chairman respectively. The election was unopposed.
 
 Congress also won Warud PS posts unopposed. Vikram Thakare, son of ex-MLA Nareshchandra Thakre was elected unopposed as chairman while Chandrashekhar Alaspure as his deputy. Congress came to power here after 20 years’ wait.
 
 Prahar founder and Achalpur MLA Bachhu Kadu failed to win chairman’s post for his organization but succeeded in installing the sole Prahar member in the House, Sonali Tatte, as deputy chairperson with support of Congress and NCP. Despite winning 5 out of 10 seats in this PS, BJP could do nothing as one of its members, Ashish Jawarkar, absented at the time of elections, which facilitated Congress (3), NCP (1), Prahar (1) combine’s triumph. NCP’s Devendra Petkar got elected as chairman. The election was unopposed. 
 
 In Chandur Bazar, independent Aruna Uike was elected chairperson by draw of lots as the seat was reserved for women from general category. Uike had won from ST reserved category from Karajgaon PS circle. BJP’s lone member Nitin Takarkhede was elected deputy. Though Prahar had won six seats in this 12-member PS, it could not secure support for majority. With Congress (3)-BJP (1)-Independents (2) forming an alliance, Prahar could not muster up support for its candidate Wanmala Ganeshkar. As a result both Aruna Uike and Ganeshkar polled six votes each. The tie was resolved with draw of lots, which favoured Uike for chairperson’s post. Takarkhede was elected unopposed as deputy chairperson.
 
 At Daryapur, Shiv Sena, to keep Congress at bay, tied up with BJP to install independents Gajanan Deotale and Raju Karale as chairman and deputy respectively. But in Chikhaldara, Congress clinched chairperson’s post through Kavita Kale and deputy through Nanakrao Thakare.
 
 At Morshi, BJP’s Shankar Uike and Sunil Kadu got elected as chairman and deputy chairman respectively.
 
 
