VADODARA: Distant cousins of royal scion   have filed a civil suit against Gaekwad and 13 other members of the   claiming half the share in the properties worth crores of rupees.

 The descendants of   I, who was also the great grandfather of Maharaja Sayajirao Gaekwad III, have filed the suit claiming that the property which was divided between Samarjitsinh and his uncle Sangramsinh Gaekwad after a long drawn legal battle is ancestral and not independently owned by anyone.
 
 Satyashiladevi Gaekwad, widow of Vijaysinh Gaekwad, and her four children, who are also the descendants of Govindrao I have filed the suit against Samrjitsinh, Sangramsinh and other members of royal family who were involved in the property dispute till 2013.
 
 Satyshila and her children have claimed that around 39 properties in city and other parts of the country including the grand Laxmi Vilas palace, now demolished Nazarbaug palace, Makarpura palace among others, jewellery and furniture worth crores of rupees was never bought by anyone including kings who ruled the erstwhile state but by Pilajirao, who established the dynasty. The suit claims that all kings of the Baroda state were mere administrators of these properties.
 
 Even after the state was merged with the Union of India, and Fatehsinhrao Gaekwad succeeded his father Pratapsinhrao, the properties, which are all ancestral according to the suit, were named after him but he was not an independent owner of it but an administrator and its trustee.
 
 The petitioners have requested the court that all the properties worth thousands of crores of rupees be declared as ancestral and partitioned so that Satyashila and her children get 50% of its share. They have also requested the court that an interim order be passed and until the distribution of properties is done, a receiver be appointed.
 
 They have also requested that the possession of   palace, which existed in the compound of Laxmi Vilas palace and given to Satyshila’s mother-in-law by Fatehsinhrao and taken away through a court order, be given back to them.
 
 Royal scion Samarjitsinh said, "It's a blackmail. They had demanded crores of rupees from me for settlement and I had refused. Those who have filed the case were evicted from our land by the court so now they have filed this case to harass us but I will fight the case."
 
 
