Madurai: A   from Madurai district has died in the Saturday   in Kashmir. 

 Thamothara Kannan, 26, from K Vellagulam near Kallikudi in Madurai district, who was rescued after the avalanche, died on Monday in hospital along with four others who had been trapped with him. The incident follows close on the heals of the death of Sundara Pandian, a solider from Pallakapatti village near Tirumangalam, last week. 
 
 Sundara Pandian, posted at the Gurez Sector army camp in Kashmir’s Bandipora district, had been fatally trapped in the avalanche that took place last Wednesday. Even before his mortal remains could reach his village, Thamothara Kannan lost his life. Now, both bodies are expected to reach the village together.
 
 As the news broke out on Monday night, a pall of gloom descended on Vellagulam, which has a population of 4000 people. Friends, villagers and relatives of Thamothara Kannan gathered at his house and consoled his family.
 
 The five army personnel had been trapped in an avalanche as they were travelling along a snow track on Saturday. They were rescued and shifted to the nearest hospital where they succumbed.
 
 Thamothara Kannan is survived by his mother Katturani and father Manickam. His only sibling, younger brother Harishkumar, also serves in the India Army. Posted in Bangalore, Harishkumar rushed to Vellakulam on Tuesday morning. Thamothara Kannan, a bachelor, had completed his diploma in mechanical engineering. Ever since his school days, he always wanted to join the Indian Army, said N Eshwaran, his close friend.
 
 “He was very enthusiastic about sports. He was fond of cricket which he played often. He was friendly with everyone in the village,” said Eshwaran.
 
 Harishkumar said that he was earlier posted in Nashik. It had been only four months since he was posted in Kashmir. “Mobile networks were very patchy where he was posted so he used to call us once in 10 to 15 days. He had come on leave just a month ago,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, the bodies of the two soldiers arrived at the Madurai airport at around 10.30pm. Madurai collector K Veera Raghava Rao received them and paid tributes. From there, the bodies were taken to their respective villages. The final rites will be held at 8am on Wednesday.
 
 
