KOLKATA: The practice of   setting to light refuse swept up from streets during   could be the reason why an   or acting weird. A scientist in Kolkata has found   (EDC) that cause sexual problems and supress male characteristics in the city's air.

 Calcutta University's professor of chemical engineering Amitava Bandyopadhyay, who has analyzed the pollutants released by burning of garbage along EM Bypass and suburban railway tracks for two decades, says EDC -popularly called the `Dirty Dozen' in chemistry because they cause sex hormone disorders -is emitted by burning garbage.
 
 During the extensive stu dy that he has been conducting since the mid-1990s, Bandyopadhyay has found thatburning of assorted garbage that contains plastics, insulating material in cables and wires, rubber, biomass and farm waste releases the `dirty dozen' chemicals (see box).
 
 These chemicals are known to be endocrine disruptors. In countless research works across the globe, they have been found to alter hormones. The Molecular Endocrinology, a scientific journal by Endocrine Society , US, has issued a similar alert on their hormone-altering act. “These chemicals, nicknamed `gender-benders', are causing the males in many species to become feminized,“ it says. According to Amitava Bandyopadhyay , there is no end to tricks that the endocrine disruptors can play on our bodies. “They increase production of certain hormones, decrease production of others, imitate hormones, turn one hormone into another; interfere with hormone signalling, tell cells to die prematurely , compete with essential nutrients, bind with essential hormones and accumulate in organs that produce hormones,“ he said.
 
 Studies have shown endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDC) in aquatic environments to cause severe reproductive abnormalities, like intersexuality in aquatic organisms.Bandyopadhyay's finding raises apprehensions of humans being similarly affected by the presence of EDC in the environment.
 
 There is also the heightened risk of testicular and breast cancer. Organic amines transform in presence of hydroxyl radicals, nitrate ions or ozone in the atmosphere into nitrosamines that are carcinogenic. Poly aromatic hydrocarbons are reactive oxygen scavengers and can trigger cancers to human tissues.
 
 While Kolkata's ambient air quality is being monito red for two decades, there is no data on ultra-fine particu late matter, black smoke, dioxins and furans as these are not included in India's ambient air quality stan dard.
 
 According to Bandyopad hyay , the pollution caused by burning of garbage in win ter is as much as vehicular emission. During the study , the scientist found that gar bage disposal of railways had been outsourced and the agency was burning it along railway tracks. Sweepers employed by KMC, too, set garbage on fire at street kerbs.
 
 The CU professor said it is time to act as India and China account for 32% of glo bal diseases burden of men tal, neurological and sub stance use disorders.
 
 Debasish Bhattachary ya, chief scientist, Indian In stitute of   , said the problem will persist in the city as waste isn't seg regated methodically . Envi ronmentalist Sivaprasad Chatterjee said the pollu tants have far reaching im pact as 12 of 26 diesel fume chemicals are carcinogenic.
 
 
 
