PUNE: Veteran   leader   still recollects the names of children in the 650 households in Wanowrie village he visited as part of his campaign for elections way back in 1974. Elected thrice as a corporator, an MLA and a minister, Shivarkar has not given up the habit of reaching out to these families as well as to their second generation members.

 Nearing 70, Shivarkar is gearing up to campaign for Congress candidates in his area but feels ‘disconnected’ in this age of Facebook, WhatsApp and Twitter.
 
 “In our time we would start our day early in the morning and reach out to many households till late into the night. We would knock on every door and over cups of tea would ask for their suggestions on how best to develop the area. Today, rather than ‘people connect’, it is WhatsApp connect,’’ says Shivarkar, a trifle disappointed.
 
 He recounts that there were times when he would walk 40 km every day. Shivarkar, who won elections in 1974, later became a mayor in 1984 and then an MLA and later a minister. He feels technology cannot replace direct connect with people and stresses that this could be the reason why fervour was missing from the campaign though the polling date was just nine days away.
 
 The hustle and bustle of election is missing not only in the city but also in Pimpri Chinchwad as well. A mix of both veterans and youngsters is contesting the elections. The veterans still vouch for the benefit of direct connect with people rather than sending bulk messages.
 
 Ulhas alias Aba Bagul, a five-time corporator from Sahakarnagar area, who is contesting for the sixth time, also swears by direct connect with people. He says one has to physically meet people and talk to them if one has to establish a connection with them. “I have been contesting elections for the last 25 years and from my experience I can tell you that people only decide to vote for you if they meet you in person,’’ he says.
 
 Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) MP Vandana Chavan, who is the city president, feels that while people connect is the key, the scenario is different now with vast stretches needed to be covered during campaigns.
 
 “It is not easy to reach out to every household. Also even if candidates visit housing societies, the residents may not be there. Here technology does play a part with group messages and social networking sites showcasing the work done by the party and also providing information about the candidates,’’ says Chavan.
 
 However way back in 1992 when she started campaigning for elections, she said that personal contact, corner meetings and society meetings were the key factors that instilled confidence in the people. “Now people wait outside election offices to get permission for campaigns. When will they do door to door campaigns?’’ she asks.
 
 Three-time corporator Suhas Kulkarni, who is helping in the BJP’s campaign, decided to stay off elections from 2007 to make way for some of his party workers. A senior leader, who continues with padyatras and corner sabhas to reach out to people, he says ‘people connect” is by far the best. People will not vote for you unless they feel confident about you.
 
 “I contested three elections in 1992, 1997 and 2002. My team of workers would come with me to each of the areas and we would talk to the people. This instilled confidence in the voters to vote for me. This will surely be missed in the upcoming elections with technology being used widely,” he said.
 
 Citizens also feel the vibrant atmosphere surrounding elections is missing. “We hardly feel that we are going for elections,’’ says Snehalata Kumbhar, a resident of Kothrud. The same sentiment was echoed by 65-year-old MM Vohra from Hadapsar . “We hardly know who is contesting,’’ he says.
 
 Pune MP Anil Shirole, who has contested corporation elections as well as Lok Sabha elections, says while people connect is necessary, use of technology cannot be ignored if one needs to reach out to a wider audience. His son Siddharth Shirole, who is contesting the elections, said that social media, twitter, bulk SMSes are being used. “Besides, we have deployed an LED van with videos and documentaries of work done in the area,’’ he says. In addition to this star campaigners too have been roped in, he adds.
 
