A day after   chief Uddhav Thackeray said in Mumbai that his party would not form alliance with the BJP and contest civic elections on its own, the local unit of his party on Friday said it will contest on all 122 seats for the February 21 Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) elections. 

 The list of Sena candidates for the NMC polls is expected to be announced in the next two-three days. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, Sena city chief Ajay Boraste said, “We will contest civic polls on our own. Last time, the BJP had broken the alliance before filing nominations. Considering our past experience, we were alert this time. Hence, we have come up with this decision. We will contest all 122 seats of the NMC. We have already conducted interviews of 810 candidates, of whom 523 are women.”
 
 He added, “This time around, all our candidates are educated. Most of them are CAs, doctors, lawyers etc. This is a sign of revolution and also the fact that they are being attracted toward Sena. We have already sent a report to our party supremo, who will decide on awarding tickets to the candidates. The list of candidates is expected to be announced in next two-three days.”
 
 Boraste said merits of the candidates — public relation skills and his image in public — are to be considered while giving tickets. “Party supremo will take the final decision about the candidates. Sena will contest elections on basis of development works and agitations staged during the past five years,” he said.
 
 During the last NMC election, Sena had won 19 seats, while the MNS had won 40. Now, 28 MNS corporators have left their party and joined either Shiv Sena or the BJP.
 
 The MNS has a current strength of 12 corporators, while 24 corporators from other parties have joined Sena in the past few months, mostly from MNS. The BJP had won 14 seats in the last election. Now, 19 corporators from MNS, NCP and Congress have left their parties and joined the BJP.
 
 Meanwhile, ending their 20-year-old pre-poll alliance in country’s richest civic body — Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday — Thackeray said the Sena will contest the February 21 civic polls alone.
 
 The declaration came at a party conclave in Mumbai on Republic Day, signalling the start of what may be a bitterly-fought poll campaign reminiscent of the diatribe-filled 2014 state assembly poll drive when the saffron allies had drifted apart.
 
 Mentioning the mass protests over Jallikattu in Tamil Nadu, the Sena president also said “the upcoming polls are a sporting event and the bull (BJP) needs to be tamed once and for all”. He also called the BJP a "goonda" party.
 
 The Sena has ruled the BMC, which has a budget of Rs 37,000 crore, since 1997 in alliance with the BJP, which has played junior partner. The BJP this time demanded 114 of the total 227 seats, while the Sena offered its ally in the state and at the Centre only 60 - five less than the BJP had fought in the last civic polls of 2012.
 
 Thackeray said the Sena will also contest polls to nine other civic bodies, including Thane, Pune and Nashik, and 25 zilla parishads on its own steam, triggering speculation on whether the break-up would have implications for the BJP-led state government headed by Devendra Fadnavis.
 
 Sources, however, said Sena's decision to snap ties with BJP may not have an adverse impact on the stability of the over-two-years-old state government. The Sena may take a call on continuation in the state regime after the BMC polls, sources said. Uddhav did not comment on a possible post-poll tie-up.
 
 
