HUBBALLI: From being a doting mother to two children to recuperating from injuries she sustained in a fire accident,  , the managing director of   in Shivamogga, has had an incredible journey.

 Addressing the inaugural session of the   conference – being held to help micro-entrepreneurs — here on Wednesday, Laxmi said that marriage delayed the realisation of her dream to become an entrepreneur. “I was married when I was still pursuing my undergraduation. So, I could realise my dream of becoming an entrepreneur only after 13 years,” she said.
 
 She said that she had imbibed the entrepreneurial streak from her father. “Like most women, my responsibilities changed after I got married. I was really busy managing the household, and taking care of my children and the elders,” she said.
 
 It was only when her children became old enough to take care of themselves that Laxmi began pursuing her dream in the earnest. “I told my husband, Gopinath, what I wanted to do, and he was very supportive,” she said.
 
 A six-week workshop that was conducted by the   (AWAKE) in Shivamogga set Laxmi on her new path. “At an incubation centre at AWAKE Bengaluru, I prepared 100kg of the sweet, gulab jamoon, and transported it to Shivamogga. Subsequently, I rented a house in Shivamogga for my food processing unit. I had to struggle to get my FPO licence, which is mandatory to run the food processing unit. My application was rejected the first time on the grounds that my unit was in the fourth floor. I shifted it to the first floor, and received my licence in 2004,” Laxmi said.
 
 Exhorting budding entrepreneurs not to be bogged down by problems, Laxmi said that the going had not been easy initially. “There was stiff competition in my sector. But it is quality that helps you succeed. I also joined an MBA course, but fractured my leg during my first semester examination, while my mother-in-law passed away when I had to write my second semester examination. I took all my exams together, and passed them with first class,” she added. 
 
 Laxmi then enrolled in a PhD course. “But I was caught in a fire accident, and was bedridden for more than one year. Despite having a valid medical reason, I was not allowed to write my PHD examinations then. But I cleared the entrance examination again, and I am now in my final year,” she said.
 
 Calling on young entrepreneurs to be ambitious, she said, “I have been honoured with various national and state awards. My firm sells around 40 products not only in India, but also on international markets.”
 
 KSFC Hubballi manager Chandrappa presided over the session on Wednesday.
 
 
