Shimla: Reacting to the delay by the state government in filing a reply on its queries regarding landslides and construction in the green, forest and core area of Shimla, the National Green Tribunal has given the state government and others the last opportunity to comply with the directions. The NGT said delay in judgment could not be permitted due to the state and local authorities not furnishing a reply.

 Principal bench of the Tribunal, headed by its chairperson justice Swatanter Kumar, in the September 13 order, observed that the Tribunal is unable to pronounce its judgment due to the state of Himachal Pradesh, Shimla Municipal Corporation and other stakeholders concerned not complying with directions. 
 
 The Tribunal noted that this was the third adjournment being sought for lack of instructions on landslide incidents which occurred in 2017 and the damage caused by it besides the comments on the comptroller and auditor general (CAG) report on “Social, general and economic sectors of the year, ended on March 31, 2016,” government of Himachal Pradesh.
 
 Earlier, the Tribunal sought information about the guidelines prepared by the town and country planning department for sanctioning of building plan or issuing NOC. It also asked about the stand of the state government and MC, Shimla with regard to constructions in the forest area.
 
 The CAG report said Himachal Pradesh Town and Country Planning (TCP) rules provide that maximum acceptable slope for construction of a building is 45 degrees. But the audit observed that the MC, Shimla and TCP department did not maintain records pertaining to enforcement of the maximum acceptable slope in respect of 2,459 buildings constructed in the cemetery area of Sanjauli, Krishna Nagar, Kangnadhar and other areas of Shimla falling under their jurisdiction from 2011 to 2016. 
 
 Therefore, compliance with the regulation had not been established either by the MC, Shimla or the TCP department. Haphazard construction of buildings with no space for providing relief and rehabilitation may result in abnormally high casualties during disaster, the report added.
 
 
