KOLKATA: An increase in production cost, coupled with spurt in local demand during the wedding season and an occasional drop in supplies, have pushed up   prices in the last month. Chicken now costs 30% higher in the city markets to make up for the losses poultry farmers have been making.

 “There is a price escalation in the market. But that is not an aberration. While the farmers were selling chicken at Rs 125/130 per kg, they were actually incurring losses to the tune of Rs 40 per kg,” said  , general secretary of the  . 
 
 According to industry sources, with the inflated prices being factored in, cost of production of every kg of dressed chicken hovers around Rs 160, which includes transportation cost. “This had to be neutralized and the prices that you see in the market now is quite reasonable,” Maiti said.
 
 According to sources, prices in markets across the city have clocked a sharper rise, touching Rs 180 or 190 in certain pockets. In Gariahat market, dressed chicken was selling at Rs 180/kg on Sunday morning. “Whole chicken costs Rs 120/kg in Gariahat market. Even a month back, we sold meat at Rs 30 lower than this,” said Abdul Samad, a retailer here.
 
 According to him, the wholesale price for the meat varies between Rs 106 and Rs 112, depending on the weight of the bird. Industry sources said poultry farmers produce around two crore kg chicken per week, of which more than 1.80 crore kg is consumed across the state. Kolkata and Howrah consume around 30% of that. The Kolkata market is mainly catered to by districts like Hooghly, Burdwan, North and South 24-Parganas and Midnapore.
 
 “There was also a shortage of supply due to death of the birds earlier this year owing to weather fluctuations. With the mercury dipping fast in districts, mortality of the bird had increased. While that does not have a significant impact on the overall price dynamics, local markets are definitely influenced by that,” said Manoj Chakraborty, a chicken wholesaler in south Kolkata.
 
