PUNE: Hem Mishra, who was convicted by a   district court in March for his links with Maoists, has been shifted from Nashik jail to Kolhapur jail due to security concerns. The move follows intelligence inputs from the state anti-terrorism squad (ATS) about increased `Maoist movement' around Nashik.
Speaking with TOI, additional director general of police (prisons) Bhushankumar Upadhyay confirmed the development, “We have taken this step due to some security issues. Adequate security arrangements have been made at the Kolhapur prison.“
 
 Upadhyay , however, avoided getting into the specifics the security concerns that warranted shifting Mishra shift from the Nashik jail. Along with Mishra, the Gadchiroli district court had also convicted Delhi University professor G N   and three others under the Unlawful Activities Preven tion Act. Saibaba, Mishra and three others were sentenced to life imprisonment. Another accused was sentenced to 10 years imprisonment. While Saibaba is lodged in the Nagpur Central Prison, Mishra was lodged in the Nashik Central Prison.
 
 Requesting anonymity , a senior prison officer said, “Mishra started to disseminate Maoist propaganda in the Nashik prison itself by addressing groups of prisoners on issues close to the Maoist movement. This prompted the decision to shift him.“ A senior police officer from Mumbai claimed that after considering increased Maoist activities in Mumbai and Nashik, there were apprehensions about local operatives regularly visiting Mishra in jail for interactions. “Thus, we suggested that Mishra be shifted to another prison,“ the officer said.
 
 When contacted, ATS officers said that the Maoist activities had increased in Western Maharashtra over the last three months. The state capital as well as cities close to Mumbai have witnessed an increase in such activities, of ficers claimed. “Many Maoists or persons, who have an affiliation with or affection for the Maoist movement and were in prison for the past three or four years, have been released. These persons are holding lectures at different institutions and other programmes showing atrocities against tribal people. It is not wrong to put forth the truth but, at the same time, it is dangerous to influence people against the government in the name of atrocities,“ an officer said.
 
 Maoist activities are being monitored in cities such as Pune, Nashik, Solapur and Aurangabad, the ATS officer added.
 
 The Maharashtra police had arrested Saibaba from his Delhi residence in May 2014 following the arrests of Mishra and two others from   in Gadchiroli in August 2013. According to the police, Mishra was found to be in possession of a microchip containing documents from Saibaba to be delivered to   commander Narmadakka.
 
