BENGALURU: A nxiety is palpable at  , off  , central Bengaluru. A week after the   ( ) ordered closure of cloth-dyeing units in the area, many of the over two dozen units have been shut. With two houses in every street of the area having a dyeing unit, the consternation among residents is understandable. 

 The KSPCB order came on April 25, following complaints from Shantinagar residents that the units are responsible for the flow of coloured water from their taps. It also said the units' effluent disposal system is contributing to Bellandur Lake's pollution.
 
 Srinivas, a member of Veerabhadreshwara Saree Dyeing Process Association Trust, Vinayaka Nagar, said he had been working in the units for 40 years. The silk industry was one of the top contributors to Bengaluru's   before the emergence of the IT sector, he said and claimed that the livelihood of approximately 500 people were directly dependent on these units.
 
 "I have been in this business since its initial days. Some of our children also began working here. For some, it's a family business. We have never experienced any health problems or faced any hazards as a result of our work," Srinivas pointed out.
 
 Trust members said pollution of Bellandur Lake was due to effluents released by faulty drainage system from surrounding areas and not the dyeing units. Chemicals used in the dye cannot seep into pipes discharging effluents into the lake. 
 
  The process of dyeing takes place in a single room, without much ventilation and about seven to eight people work in each unit. Families of the affected workers said they don't have any alternative means of survival. Dyeing cloth is their main source of income, without which they cannot afford their basic needs. 
 
  The units were given three days time to shut down from the day of the announcement. The trust is now trying to negotiate with KSPCB by promising to dispose water by storing it in tanks, instead of releasing it into the sanitary lines, as was the practice. Members are hoping to restart their units if the board agrees to this solution. They say this could help stabilize their lives once again. 
 
 (By - 
 )
 
