BENGALURU: Some 4,000 camel teeth and 130 cowhides were unearthed from the check-in bags of five persons, including a woman passenger who were attempting to smuggle these animal parts to Bangkok via   (KIA). Customs sleuths who made the seizures have detained the suspects who are believed to be members of an   gang based in Mysuru.

 Customs sources said the seizure took place late on Friday night, when officers on duty grew suspicious and questioned one of the gang members. “We retrieved one of the bags that were checked-in for Thai Airways aircraft TG326 bound for Bangkok, and unearthed plastic packets in which camel teeth were meticulously hidden to avoid detection,” said a customs officer at KIA.
 
 Inspection of the other bags revealed more camel teeth and also 130 painted cowhides, the officer added. Forty plastic packets with 100 camel teeth in each, apart from the 130 cowhides made into rolls, were confiscated. Shipping of animal parts is banned under Indian law.
 
 The Bangkok-bound passengers were identified as Gopi, his wife Priya Gopi, Sinkanni Gotty, Chandrakantha and  , all residents of Mysuru. The five were detained for questioning and were found to be part of an organized gang involved in smuggling of animals parts from Mysure and Bengaluru to Southeast Asia. In January 2015, Gopi, Priya and Udesh were arrested by customs sleuths in Mumbai, when they attempted to smuggle 180kg of camel teeth to Thailand, sources said.
 
 “Camel teeth is used for ornaments in parts of Asia and are said to be in high demand. We suspect the cowhides were painted to resemble tiger skin to possibly deceive buyers,” said another investigating officer.
 
 Preliminary probe revealed the gang had procured the camel teeth from illicit dealers in Goa and the cowhides from Hunsur town in Mysuru. Investigators are looking into the activities of the gang and its other members as they are believed to have smuggled animals parts through KIA on previous occasions too, added sources.
 
