For  , National School of Drama was and is like a temple. The actress graduated from   in 1983. As we accompany Himani to her alma mater, students from the current batch come running towards her to click selfies. Though she happily poses for the photos with them, she quips, "I take it as a compliment when people want to click photos with us. But at times, it is pretty intrusive. People think that because we come on the big screen or on television, they have a right over us. Some people would not even ask before taking a picture, you can be busy with your shoot, but they come and take a photo with you, regardless. But it is all part of the job."

  
 While talking about her NSD days, Himani tells us that her family never supported her to take up theatre as a profession. "I was pretty good at studies and when I had come to NSD for my interview, I’d lied that I have got a scholarship to study abroad. I told my family that I had a visa interview, but I was actually here for the interview at NSD. Fortunately, I got selected and I remember when I came here, this seemed like a temple to me. I was ragged, I was miserable because I came from an angrezi background. I was one of the good-looking, educated actors, and that is like a disadvantage in theatre! I am not talking about the film industry, but theatre. In theatre, the uglier you are, the better actor you are. Looks do not matter here," she says. The actress adds, "I remember, the first play that I did here was Vidya Sundar in Hindi. While doing one of the scenes, my dupatta got stuck in a stool. The hero of the play helped me with the dupatta, and I said, 'Thank you'. Since I had thanked him in English, everyone was like, 'Isne Hindi play mein thank you bola hai.' And I was ragged the whole year on that account. So there were times like these when we were made to feel miserable."
 
  
  Himani Shivpuri (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
 
 Like most colleges in Delhi, students at NSD also have a certain image. "Most of the students and teachers here like ethnic outfits. Ek image bhi hoti thi – jhola latkaya aur aa gaye. You are expected to dress up a certain way. Aaj bhi main yahan aayi hoon, toh I am wearing oxidized jewellery, aur yeh sari. They also have an intellectual way of looking at things. They will over-criticize things, just to show that they know about the subject. Koi bhi acchi cheez hogi toh usey criticize karenge," she laughs.
 
  
  
 
  
 Himani tells us that she tries to take some time off specially to shop whenever she is in Delhi. "I manage to shop here every time I come. Mandi House ki chaat aur paan behetreen hai. We used to hang out here when we were in NSD. Hum poor hote thay toh jab mess ka khaana nahi khaana hota tha toh paas ke mandir pe jo dhaba tha, wahan jaake khaana khaate thay. We were not allowed to work outside, but we used to do some shows to earn some money at Doordarshan. Krishi Darshan show aata tha, that show used to telecast only in distant villages, so we used to act there and used to earn some money. At that time, we used to get Rs250 as our salary, and that was a huge amount for all of us," she says.
 
  
  
 
  
  (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
 
