THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government will hold an all-party meeting in Kannur on Tuesday in which chief minister   will attend. The chief minister’s move to restore peace in the politically-sensitive district came following discussions he held with   state president Kummanam Rajashekaran and RSS leader P Gopalankutty, in the presence of   state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan on Monday.

 The BJP and RSS leaders assured their support to the meeting and also reiterated that if the government was serious about bringing peace, then they would give all support.
 
 “Leaders at the district level have the responsibility to bring peace to their areas. It is the small incidents which later go on to trigger grave violence. Hence the party cadres have to be made aware of the need to restore peace in the society,” said Kodiyeri Balakrishnan after the meeting.
 
 Only the district level leaders can bring peace in the area and implement the decisions reached at the all-party meeting. The onus of the success of the meeting is on the local leaders. Hence, there is a need for communicating this to bottom level of the party cadres. For this, the leaders will be given specific instructions, said Kodiyeri.
 
 Kummanam said that the BJP was not against bringing peace. But the complaint is that the police always act according to the directions of the government. We have raised our concerns regarding this. If the government is serious enough in bringing peace to the politically sensitive areas, we will be in the forefront by supporting the move.
 
 RSS leader Gopalakutty too echoed a similar view. “We are not against peace and we don’t sponsor violence. Hence we have pledged our support to the government in its efforts to bring peace,” he said.
 
 The discussion on Monday was also attended by O Rajagopal MLA, Anathalavattom Anandan and M V Govindan.
 
 Welcoming the initiative of the chief minister, NDA vice-chairman Rajeev Chandrashekar said that the current   is a big hurdle to investments and job creation in the state. Many investors are reluctant to come to Kerala because of the perception that security and law and order situations in Kerala are bad.
 
