VISAKHAPATNAM: Having borne the brunt of cashless days during November and December,  , a resident of  , was a happy man to have received the Rs 2,000 notes without much hassle from ATMs during the last one month. 

 However, his happiness didn’t last much long as he unfortunately received a Rs 2,000 note, which had a scribbling on it. Murthy said he hasn’t been able to exchange that currency note as neither banks nor any vendors are accepting it. 
 
 Even the vendor, with whom he was arguing at Siripuram said, “We are not taking any currency notes with scribbling on them as banks are not accepting such currency notes. Even the distributors of goods are not taking them from us.”
 
 According to bank sources, the menace of scribbled notes has been continuing for a long time. However, an official said, “It has reduced a lot since the new notes were released into the market. But, it may return after some more time.” 
 
 Ramana Murthy’s is not the only case. According to bank sources, several people have been turned away with notes, which have scribbling on them. 
 
 Incidentally, even a whatsapp forward has been doing the rounds stating that scribbled notes will not be taken by  .
 
 Two bank officials, who requested anonymity, however confirmed that many of the banks were turning away customers, who were handing them notes with marks on them. “The RBI has a clean note policy and it is being enforced strictly by banks ever since the new notes of Rs 500 and Rs 2,000 were introduced. There is no official instruction that we have received to reject such notes,” a senior bank official said, who however added that customers should prefer to keep the notes clean.
 
 “Earlier, we used to accept notes with writing on them, but we are not taking them now because of instructions, which have said that only clean notes have to be accepted,” said another banker.
 
 However, according to a press release issued by the   (RBI) on December 14, 2015, “The Reserve Bank of India has today denied having issued a communication circulating on social media alerting members of public that banks will not accept currency notes with scribbling on them from January 1, 2016.”
 
 It further states, “The Reserve Bank has reiterated that all currency notes issued by it are legal tender and banks and members can freely and without fear accept them in exchange for goods and services.”
 
 However, the release also said, “The Reserve Bank has stated that in pursuance of its clean note policy, it keeps requesting banks and members of public not to write on the currency notes as writing defaces them and reduces their life.” 
 
 The Reserve Bank of India has denied having issued a communication circulating on social media alerting members of public that banks will not accept currency notes with scribbling on them from January 1, 2016
 
