GURUGRAM: Alleged irregularities in recently held   of   have landed   in fresh controversy, casting aspersions on the role of its employees while undermining the claims of transparency in online property deals.

 Huda has been accused of uploading details of two plots on its website just three days before the e-auction held on June 17, which allegedly benefited a couple of individuals and caused huge losses to the state exchequer.
 
 Dhan Raj Bansal, an entrepreneur, alleged that the details of plot No. 1261-A (in Sector 43) and plot No. 34-E (in Sector 41) were uploaded on the Huda website on June 14. “One has to deposit 2% of the reserved price to participate in bidding and the last date for depositing this amount was June 16,” he added.
 
 Elaborating further, Bansal said in case a bidder didn’t have online payment facility and opted for RTGS, the last date for payment (2% of the reserved price) was June 15. That means participants were given only two days — 15th and 16th — for applying for the e-auction on June 17. “As a result, only two persons could participate in the bidding process with each taking away one of the two plots auctioned,” he added.
 
 As per the Huda rules, there should be a gap of minimum 20 days between the date on which plot details are uploaded on the website and the date of e-auction.
 
 “Keeping a small window means getting less number of applications, lesser competition and greater risk of losses. There might have been more people who wanted to participate in the bidding but could not apply as one had to complete a lot of formalities and arrange money for the same,” said Bansal.
 
 However, Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav said the website and online auction were being managed by a private company, hired by the state government, and Huda’s role was limited in this regard. “I don’t believe anyone has violated any rule. However, it is mandatory to keep a proper window between the two dates. The authority will verify the facts brought to its notice,” he added.
 
 On allotting a plot to a lone participant, Yadav said as per the rules, even a single bidder could bag the allotment if his bid was above the reserved price. 
 
 “If a plot has been allotted to someone (even if he is the lone bidder) at a price above the reserved value, then there is no loss to the exchequer,” he maintained. A bidder quotes a price for a plot based on multiple factors, including its location, the administrator added.
 
 This is the second time in recent months when Huda faced charges of irregularities in its e-auctions.
 
  Earlier, Huda has been accused of allotting plots meant for setting up nursing homes to two relatives of a senior Huda official in violation of its own policy. Also, the two allottees did not have any medical background, which was a must for such plots. The allotments were later cancelled following an order from the Punjab and Haryana high court.
 
 
