BHOPAL: Enthused by BJP’s unprecedented victory in Uttar Pradesh,   chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said it was not a ‘Modi wave' but a ‘Modi Storm’ which swept away all opponents. Chouhan reiterated that `Modi is god's blessing to the country’.

 “Ye Modi Lahar Nahi, Ye Aandhi Hai Jisme Gathbandhan Tinke Ki Tarah Ud Gaya Hai (This is not Modi wave but Modi storm in which the opposition alliance was blown away like a straw),” reacted chief minister Chouhan after the election results in five states.
 
 He said, BJP is also forming government In Uttarakhand and this is an unprecedented success for the party. The chief minister further stated that party has fared well, first time in Manipur and also in Goa. I am hopeful that BJP will form government there too as this is a historic mandate.
 
 “He has got an amazing personality, his development initiatives, decisions in the interest of the country and welfare works for people specially, poor community. People consider Modi has their Messiah'', said Chouhan, adding, that this is a triumph of Modi's popularity, his development skills, public confidence in him, a zeal to bring the country ahead which has resulted into a big victory of BJP.
 
 Praising the poll strategy of BJP national president Amit Shah, Chouhan said all the remaining parties in Uttar Pradesh have been wiped off and Uttarakhand has also repeated the same trend. Being the chief of the party, Amit Shah worked on the minute details and supervised the execution to perfection. This is a victory of his leadership capacity and acumen, said Chouhan.
 
 “I congratulate Prime Minister Modi, Amit Shah and party workers and thank the public who has blessed BJP with a historic mandate,.” said Chouhan.
 
 Earlier, the chief minister in a series of tweets after early trends suggested that BJP was on its way to form government in UP after a hiatus of 15 years, and said that people of the country have again expressed confidence in BJP and its able leadership which ensured its huge victory.
 
 “The huge victory after demonetisation has proved that people are ready to take pain and sufferings for a corruption free country,” Chouhan tweeted.
 
