CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has held that profession of an advocate is at a higher pedestal than of a nambardar (revenue record keeper in a village). The court said the profession would not permit a lawyer to discharge the functions of a nambardar if appointed on the post.

 Justice   of the HC passed these orders while dismissing the plea of an advocate against the denial of the post of nambardar in   district. The court was of the view that an advocate would not be available for rendering assistance to the local villagers as a revenue official since the profession of a lawyer was at higher pedestal than of a nambardar.
 
 “An advocate cannot be available as he would be engaged in pursuing his matters in the court. Assuming for the argument's sake that he is conducting cross examination that may continue for full day and in the meantime, his presence is required for attestation of document, it would not be possible for him to be avai lable for the purpose of attestation,“ HC held in its January 24 orders.
 
 The petitioner in this case,  , an advocate and a resident of village   under   tehsil in Rewari, was aggrieved of the orders passed by assistant collector on August 13, 2013, whereby one   was appointed a village nambardar. The post was advertised by the government on account of the death of the previous incumbent on December 18, 2012.
 
 The petitioner's appeal against the August 2013 order was also dismissed by the appellate revenue authorities.In his plea before HC, the petitioner had argued that he had more educational qualification being an advocate practicing in district court. He also claimed himself a social person and has taken huge interest in the pulse polio campaign and undergone training relating to Nehru Yuva Sanghtan, Rewari. He also claimed to have worked for the plantation in his own village and nearby areas and also participated in blood donation drives and religious activities.
 
 “All these facts did not weigh in the mind of the authorities and the order appointing Mange Ram as nambardar is, thus, erroneous. There were many candidates but the petitioner is the most suitable person for such post.These facts have not been noticed by the authorities below and therefore, the orders under challenge are liable to be set aside,“ the petitioner had argued.
 
