Mysuru: The sight of the illuminated Mysuru Palace, accompanied by the bustle at the exhibition grounds opposite with the exotic aromas from the Ahara Mela to boot – there is no shortage of excitement in the heritage City with the Dasara celebrations in full swing. However, for the hundreds of pre-university (PU) students, who had their noses buried in their books preparing for the  , the decision of the department of PU education to declare an unscheduled vacation for the course of the festival has come as an unwelcome hiatus.

 The mid-term vacation for PU colleges was initially scheduled to start from October 8, and go on till the 22nd. However, the department’s decision to advance them has left many students in the lurch, since many had already enrolled themselves in various crash courses for national-level admission tests. Many students are now afraid that they might not be able to attend these classes since the mid-term examinations will be taking place in tandem. With all remaining mid-term examinations now postponed, although the students will be able to enjoy the Dasara festivities, they will also have to make arrangements to their plans. However, supplementary classes on spoken English and grammar are set to continue in accordance with the old schedule.
 
 KS Nikhil, a second PU student at a city college, is none too pleased with the sudden change in the schedule. “Mid-term examinations were in progress at our college, and we had completed two exams. Now, as per the revised schedule, we need to write the remaining tests after October 6,” said Nikhil.
 
 He added that many of his classmates had registered for various crash courses. “Now, we cannot attend these courses since classes will resume ahead of schedule. These things should be kept in mind while taking such a decision,” Nikhil said.
 
 Director of the department of PU education C Shikha said that the   had been advanced following a request from the district administration. “Mid-term examinations are conducted by the respective colleges, and the principals are free to reschedule them,” she said.
 
 Mid-term vacations have been advanced in Kodagu district as well.
 
 
