SURAT: Ghanshyam Gabani, a young diamond manufacturer in Mahidhapura, has never celebrated Valentine’s Day with his wife or family members. But, every year, he never forgets Valentine’s Day, because it has to do a lot with the amount of business it generates for him. A fortnight ahead of the V-Day, Gabani would start getting orders from his clients in Surat, Mumbai and Delhi. This time around, Gabani who was facing severe liquidity crisis due to demonetization, has a reason to rejoice as the V-Day has spurred the demand of polished diamonds in the domestic and the international market. 

 Gabani is not an isolated case. The V-Day has brought cheers on the faces of the small and medium diamantaires in the world’s largest diamond cutting and polishing industry in Surat. 
 
 Industry sources said the market, which was literally dormant for about two months post-demonetization, has picked up pace with the increase in polished diamond demand in the local international market due to V-Day and the upcoming marriage season. 
 
 Rashish Ghevariya, another diamond manufacturer at Nandu Doshi Ni Wadi at Katargam is a happy man these days. Until last month, he was seriously thinking to quit the business following demonetization impact. In the last fortnight, Ghevariya has sold around 90% of his polished diamond inventory to the dealers and jewellers in Surat and Mumbai.
 
 “It was unbelievable when a dealer in Mumbai contacted me for the specific sized stones in mid-January. I readily conveyed him the business offer and time delivery. After that, I have been able to sold all the diamond in my inventory and ready to replenish the rough diamond stock for the upcoming season” said Ghevariya. 
 
 Chandu Sheta, another diamond manufacturer said, “Till first week of January, nobody was ready to purchase my polished diamond stock due to cash crisis and demonetization. Thanks to V-Day, I have been able to sell all my stock in the last 20 days. Now, I can pay off my workers and purchase new stock for the factory.”
 
 Over 3,000 small and medium diamantaires and around 4,000 traders were affected due to the liquidity crisis following demonetization. The diamond business had literally collapsed for few months as the traders had no money on hands to transact. 
 
 Talking to TOI, regional chairman of Gems and   (GJEPC), Dinesh Navadiya said, “There is a lot of activity going on in the diamond markets of Varachha and Mahidharpura. Traders are buying and selling diamonds, which was not the scene till first week of January. Cash has started rolling in the market and the occasions like V-Day has helped spur the diamond demand.”
 
 Diamond Analyst, Aniruddha Lidbide said, “Like the western countries, V-Day is the most popular day celebrated across India. The demand is trickling in from Delhi, Chennai, Punjab, Maharashtra and other parts of the country for polished diamonds. Indian consumers prefer low-quality ddiamonds, which are manufactured by the small and medium diamantaires in Surat.”
 
 
