NAGPUR: It is disputed whether Chhatrapati Shivaji’s   should be celebrated on February 19 as per the   or the Hindu tithi, according to which   Jayanti falls on March 15.

 Over the years, programmes to pay tributes to the revered Maratha warrior king have been celebrated on both the days. A bunch of Nagpurians have attempted and further carried Shivaji’s legacy through speeches, entertainment programmes, construction of fort replicas and more for the benefit of the present generation, several of whom haven’t heard about Maharashtra’s iconic ruler.
 
 Datta Shirke, anti-Naxalite activist and founder of Shivrajya Abhishek Sohala Samiti, has undertaken programmes for youngsters to propagate Shivaji’s ideals of humility and patriotism. Every Sunday at 7am, children assemble on the samiti premises for Shivaji puja. “They also come armed with a story on Shivaji, which they share with each other. The idea is to instil values of good behaviour in them,” said Shirke, whose samiti will commemorate the day with a puja, blood donation camp and performance of dhol tasha pathak.
 
 Every evening at Reshimbagh ground, a training session for wielding sword is conducted for girls. On February 19, they undertook a door-to-door awareness campaign at Pardi.
 
 Shivaji has left behind a rich legacy of forts which were built for strategic benefits and showcased systematic layout planning. Atul Guru, a loco-pilot driver by profession and an exponent of Shivaji’s forts, has been instrumental in creating replicas of the warrior’s forts, which he calls informative landscapes for awareness building of youngsters.
 
 At Motibagh, he has recreated Shivneri fort, Manikgarh fort in Ballarshah, and is in the process of constructing five other forts in Pardi area. “My aim is to propagate Shivaji’s thoughts to inspire people to follow his ideas and bring alive the rich heritage he has given to us,” he said.
 
 Modelling of Shivaji’s forts has been a passion for Praful Mategaonkar since 2000. Last year, he began his infotainment programme ‘Sahyadritil saat ratne’, a blend of historic storytelling along with music and poetry. In this event, Mategonkar narrates history of seven forts by enacting events and making use of LED screens which show photos and scenes in the background. Music and lights add to the narration.
 
 “The new generation finds history boring due to the long readings and chapters. So, I thought of this idea,” said Mategaonkar, who has done over 20 shows till now and is an engineer by profession.
 
 In February, members of Shivraj Pratishan, headed by Hemant Gadkari, distributed books on Shivaji written by scholar Babasaheb Purandare to students at Gandhi gate. A health check-up camp has been organized on Wednesday.
 
 On March 15, rallies will be conducted from Wardha and Hingna focusing on scenes of Afzal Khan and Jijamata. “A museum of Shivaji’s weapons has also been created at Nashik,” added Gadkari, state general secretary of Maharashtra Navnirman Samiti.
 
 Mudhoji Bhonsale is the 13th generation descendant of Shivaji. “We keep organizing programmes such as blood donation camp, akhada and other social activities throughout the year near Shivaji statue at Gandhi gate,” he said.
 
 Vijayrao Deshmukh, a scholar on Shivaji, is known in and around the city for his speeches on the king and Sshambhu maharaj, and has given 10,000 speeches till date. He founded   in 1974 and also authored books.
 
 Pratapgarh fort replica inaugurated at Brahmapuri
 
 Adding to the list of fort replicas being built in and around Nagpur, a 25-feet-long replica of Pratapgarh fort was inaugurated at Brahmapuri tehsil in Chandrapur on Tuesday. Pratapgarh is popularly known for the battle where Shivaji’s forces emerged victorious over Adilshahi forces, leading to the eventual death of Afzal Khan.
 
 This scene has been recreated, along with other information boards to spread awareness about Shivaji’s legacy and his forts. Built in joint collaboration by Shiv Jayanti Utsav Samiti, Brahmapuri and Durga Pratishthan (Nagpur), the fort was inaugurated by Jitendranath Maharaj. Over 150 families of martyrs were felicitated, said Atul Guru, founder of Durga Pratishthan.
 
 It took 15 days to build the fort made with malba (building material), black and yellow garden soil and cow dung. “We have also depicted surroundings of the fort such as Koyna dam and Jawali forest. About 40 children from nearby schools and colleges also helped us with various components of the fort,” Guru added.
 
