In the recent times, no Mollywood actor has invested so much time preparing for his characters than  . Be it losing weight for Apothecary or sporting a tonsured look for Pretham, the actor says he doesn't mind 'going the distance' if it translates to making the film better.

 For his next film Captain, which is a biopic on former Indian football captain V P Sathyan, the actor is currently putting in the hard yards to get in shape to play the protagonist. 'It's tough but I am really enjoying it. I train close to two hours a day now to get my body ready and increase my stamina. Once I am physically ready, the coaches would be changing the training regimen,' says Jayasurya. His training is planned as a step-by-step process by footballer T V Joy and former Indian player C C Jacob, who had also coached Sathyan.
 
 Once Jayasurya develops an athletic physique, the team will move to Kolkata, where they will be training with the football clubs. The movie's director Prajesh Sen tells us, 'Football clubs including Mohun Bagan will be erecting massive tents for training and that's where players from all over the country will come to train. It's where Sathyaettan had also trained before his matches.'
 
 The film will also feature several matches that highlighted Sathyan's career, including the 1992 Santhosh Trophy final in which he was Kerala captain. 'It was the first time in 19 years that Kerala brought home laurels,' says the filmmaker. 'You cannot avoid that episode when you are making a movie on his life. There are also a few other matches in which he made valuable contributions.'
 
 The movie is expected to start shooting by April and has Kozhikode, Chennai and Kolkata as its locations. Jayasurya, meanwhile, says he has decided not to take up any project till he completes shooting for the film.
 
 'I want to physically and emotionally invest in the development of the character. Captain is the first sports biopic in Malayalam, so it requires that amount of preparation. I am willing to go the distance and am hell bent on developing an athletic physique to play the sporting icon,' the actor says.
 
