JALANDHAR: Though Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh has called Canadian defence minister Harjit Singh   a “Khalistan sympathizer”, the first Sikh defence minister of the North American country has, however, often claimed that he had no interest in the Sikh politics in India. 

 A year after being denied permission to hold political rallies in Canada, Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday had said “Harjit Sajjan is a Khalistani sympathiser and so was his father”. Saying he would not meet Sajjan when he visits India later this month, the CM had added, “There are, in fact, five ministers in the   government who are Khalistani sympathisers and I will not have any truck with them.”
 
 Sajjan was first elected during the 2015 federal election, defeating Conservative incumbent MP Wai Young, and was sworn as defence minister into the Canadian abinet, headed by Justin Trudeau, on November 4, 2015.
 
 During his poll campaign in December 2014, Sajjan had said that he wanted to focus only on Canadian issues. “I find it rather peculiar to be peppered with questions by the media about Sikh politics in India,” ‘Vancouver Sun’ quoted him saying. “Is it because I wear a turban?” he had said.
 
 These comments were apparently in response to the fact that when the Liberal Party picked up Sajjan, a decorated soldier — as a candidate from Vancouver South, quite a few Punjabi-origin old timers in the party announced to part ways.
 
 They held that the party, especially Trudeau, picked up Sajjan at the behest of Word Sikh Organization, in which Sajjan’s father Kundan Singh Sajjan served as the director. This though Sajjan was considered as a star candidate due to his military record. He had served in   and Afghanistan where he was part of anti-Taliban military operations.
 
 He had clarified that he was not a member of the WSO and did not want to be identified with a separatist movement in a foreign country. “I don’t support the breakup of any country. I’m a Canadian. I want to focus on Canadian issues,” he had said.
 
 Harjit Singh Sajjan was born on September 6, 1970 in Bombeli, a village in the Hoshiarpur district of Punjab, India. Sajjan’s father, Kundan Sajjan, was a police officer here. He had migrated to Canada with his parents at age of 5.
 
 Dal Khalsa attacks Capt
 
 Taking a dig at CM Amarinder Singh’s stand Sikh group Dal Khalsa has asked that if Harjit Sajjan was a Khalistani sympathiser, then why was India going to hold talks with him. “Is the Government of India naïve and less patriotic than Amarinder as the Union government leaders would be talking to him,” asked Dal Khalsa president   Cheema.
 
