PANAJI
 Last year’s runners-up Maharashtra defeated   by a   to register their first victory and stay alive in the   at the  , Bambolim, on Sunday.
 
  Hardworking midfielder Vijith Shetty scored the all-important goal in the 67th minute to hand Maharashtra three crucial points after suffering two consecutive defeats.
  
  It was a crucial game for Punjab who would have qualified for the semifinals with a win but they have now finished their league engagements with five points from four matches. They still have hopes of qualification if the remaining two matches in the cluster end in a draw.
  
  With a game in hand, Kerala became the second team to qualify for the semifinals after routing Mizoram 4-1 at the Tilak Maidan in Vasco. It leaves Group ‘B’ wide open for the runners-up spot. Maharashtra will have to defeat Kerala on Tuesday and hope Mizoram draw with Railways. Mizoram, who have collected four points, can guarantee their progress with a win over Railways and Railways can also make it through with a win and pray that Kerala defeat Maharashtra.
  
  Maharashtra held the upper hand in terms of ball possession. Vijith took charge of the midfield with Abhishek Ambekar and Vikas Zanje waiting to charge down the flanks. But striker Aaron D’Costa just didn’t have that zeal to break through the pairing of Punjab centre-backs Arshdeep Singh and Harjinder Singh.
  
  Maharashtra had a glorious opportunity to score at the half an hour mark when Shrikant Veeramallu put Rahul Das through. The right-back crossed accurately only for Abhishek to shoot wide from hand-shaking distance.
  
  Punjab were caught offside frequently and relied on counter attacks. Amandeep Singh, Rajbir Singh and Prabhjot Singh did well to control the ball at their feet but when it came to shooting, the trio disappointed.
  
  Maharashtra wasted six corners in the first session.
  
  Punjab looked more determined to score after the restart but keeper Aditya Mishra came up with a close save to deny Rajbir.
  
  Aaron was a transformed man and worked tirelessly to hold the ball. Maharashtra finally broke the deadlock in the 67th minute as Aaron put his skills to use and sneaked in a clever through ball for Vijith who shot from outside the six-yard box past Paramjit Singh.
  
  Maharashtra could have added two more but substitute Astle Pereira could finish any of the moves.
