Pimpri Chinchwad: Roseland Residency in Pimple Saudagar is an example for housing societies across the state. 

 The building’s society, set up in 2007, has proved that with judicious use of natural resources and innovative ideas, many problems, which people face in this age of rampant pollution, can be solved. It has even received state-level awards as recognition for its work.
 
 With its successful implementation of rainwater harvesting, the society has been water tanker-free for nearly three years. Besides, the society conserves energy, disposes waste correctly and has set up other initiatives to preserve the environment. 
 
 The society’s managing committee is headed by Santosh Maskar. Members say the society is like a mini-country with various ministries. Each ministry is managed by a person passionate in the field Maskar is in charge of the conservation and management of electricity and water, and other committee members manage various departments. 
 
 Maskar told TOI, “We believe in sustainable development. We have tried to find solutions to problems faced in our housing society in all these years and have been successful. First we try to find solutions through friends and media. We then try to customize these solutions to meet our needs.”
 
 Anand Daftardar takes care of the administration, governance and vendor management in the society. Explaining the functioning of the society, he said that the general body’s approval is only needed for expensive projects like rainwater harvesting. “Otherwise, we need not take approval from GB for projects with minimal expenditure like starting reading sessions.”
 
 Amol Nagar, who shares responsibilities with Daftardar, spoke about the opposition they face from flat-holders and other residents. “There was a little opposition from some flat-holders to our initiative of implementing RWH as they thought it was unnecessary. But it subsided after the success of the pilot project. We have been receiving the support of 70% to 80% residents to all new initiatives. This encourages us,” he said. 
 
 Chandan Chourshiya, who is passionate about the environment, has worked in the tree plantation and sparrow conservation fields. He also plays an important part in discussions about the sports and cultural fields. 
 
 He said the committee members often need to tweak solutions so that it suits the society’s needs. He said, “People complained about the dwindling sparrow numbers, so we implemented the sparrow conservation project. We planted fruit-bearing trees, and installed nest boxes, grain feeders and water feeders. This increased the number of birds, but we found that they decreased during rainy season. We found out that there is no roof over the grain feeder to protect birds when it rains. So, we installed big, round plastic sheets over the feeders.”
 
 Abhay Kulkarni manages the ‘ministry’ of health and finance. He is responsible for the open air gym and yoga sessions in the society.
 
 Siddharth Naik, who ensures waste is managed well in the society, said the society has been a pioneer in the field. “In Pimple Saudagar itself, five to six housing societies implemented RWH, four societies implemented sparrow conservation project, two societies implemented energy conservation projects after obtaining our guidance. Two societies in Wakad have also implemented RWH with our guidance. People from housing societies in Mumbai and as far as Amravati have also visited Roseland society and sought our help.”
 
 Daftardar says the secret of their success is their passion. “All members are passionate to serve the society. We devote our spare time for its betterment.”
 
 
