PALAKKAD: The   (black pepper) has won recognition from Plant Varieties Registry of the Union government for its high yield and disease and heat-resistant quality.

    of Thachampara, who has 16 acres of this unique variety of pepper farm, got the registration from the Protection of Plant Varieties and Farmers’ Rights Authority, New Delhi, last week.
 
  The Certificate of Registration has declared that the farmer has developed Agali Pepper of black pepper (piper nigrum) and therefore he is the ‘ true breeder’ (or the legal representative or assignee of the true breeder) as per the provisions of the Protection of Plant Varieties and Farmers Rights Act, 2001.
 
  K  , who is engaged in planting this unique variety of pepper for the last 40 years in his farm in Agali grama panchayat of  , said his pepper was not only high yielding but resistant to diseases and attack from birds.
 
  This variety was brought by his father from Kuruvilangad in Kottayam when they migrated to Attappadi during 1958-59. He and his five brothers are cultivating it in 40 acres at Agali.
 
  “This variety was recognized as unique and of high quality and disease-resistant formally by the scientists of   in 2012. Since then, they were monitoring the plant and its yield and other uniqueness and on their recommendation, now the Government of India has given the Plant Varieties Registry,” George said.
 
  He said one kg of his pepper variety will yield half a kg of black pepper as against the 320-330 grams of other pepper varieties. It is also big in size compared to other varieties. The most important aspect is that it is free from any disease. It is also heat resistant as it survives without any irrigation water in the 40-42 degree celsius temperature of Attapadi during summer.
 
  From one acre, George gets an income of Rs 4.5 lakh annually when the price is around Rs 700-800 per kg. But this year, the price fell to Rs 400-500 due to the liberal import from Indonesia, Sri Lanka and Vietnam.
 
  Since he got the recognition, George is planning to start a nursery to produce one lakh plants annually of this unique, disease-resistant and high value black gold.
 
 
