THANE: In a disheartening trend across the lake city, millennial voters appeared to have turned their back on the civic polls, as majority of the teens and youths in the age group of 18-25 years were conspicuous by their absence from the booths on Tuesday.

 Be it due to their deteriorating faith in, or oblivion to the political system, or simply confusion about the contesting candidates in their area or the fact that they had to go to work, most of the Gen X, who was seen coming out in large numbers during the 2014   and the state assembly pools, refrained from doing so this time.
 
  (26), a Kopri resident, said, “I don’t know much about politics and so making that decision last-minute would be difficult. In addition to this, I had a day-long photography shoot that I couldn’t get out of.”
 
 Gauri Pant (23), a Vasant Vihar resident, said, “I was interested in voting a few weeks before the election, but on doing some research online found that most of the candidates had criminal records, or were hardly literate or had some negative trait or another. Instead of wasting my time and choosing NOTA, I decided to skip the exercise altogether and enjoyed my vacation.”
 
 While some of these youngsters decided not to cast their vote this year, there were others who were coaxed by their parents into voting.
 
 Nikita Kotawdekar (20), a first-time voter from Kharegaon, said, “I had no idea about the new four-panel system, the candidates in my area or the work that had been done in the past. But my parents insisted that it was my obligation to vote. My mother told me a bit about each main candidate, and this helped me decide my votes.”
 
 A tiny section of this youth population here, however, went the extra mile and took a conscious decision on casting their vote.
 
 Rajeshwari Thorat (21), a Maitri Vatika resident, said, “My best friend   and I have spent the past few months analysing the work of each party in our area. When we came to know the names of the candidates, we did a thorough check on their credentials as well. We wanted to be a part of the work done in our area. Casting our votes was the first step.”
 
 There was also a young man, an NRI from the US, who rescheduled his trip back just to exercise his franchise on Tuesday. 
 
 “I have been in staying in USA for the past three years and came here a week ago for official work. I was supposed to stay here till Sunday. But as the elections were just two days away, I stayed back to cast my vote,” said   (25), the NRI.
 
 I was interested in voting even till a few weeks ago. However, on doing some research online, I found that most of the candidates had criminal records, were hardly literates or had some negative trait or the other. So, instead of wasting my time and choosing NOTA, I decided to skip the exercise altogether and enjoyed my vacation
 
 
