VONDARAGUPPE (RAMANAGARA DISTRICT): Until a few years ago,   had not seen the inside of a bank. Now, the 74-year-old   is among the 350 families of Vondaraguppe village who have put away   and run their business entirely by cheque.

 The village, 60km on the  , is the first  .
 
 Vondaraguppe is a sericulture hub and nearly 90% of its households rear silk. “For many decades, I never visited a bank as my silk business was done through cash transactions. Today, I have an ATM card and I walk to the bank whenever I need cash,“ says Srinivasaiah. “I don't accept cash when I sell my produce.We transact only through cheques. I know my money is safe in the bank.“
 
 Going cashless and convincing villagers to open bank accounts was not easy, says deputy commissioner of Ramanagara, BR Mamatha Gowda.
 
 “We had to conduct workshops to tell them why it's necessary for them to transact through banks. We demonstrated how to use RuPay. The women in the village played a huge role in making this happen. They held awareness programmes and brought in confidence among all.“
 
 From a silk farmer to a kirana store owner, everyone in the village has moved away from cash transactions. Like everyone else in the village, Srinivasaiah was trained to operate ATMs. “I just observed them and began using it.It's very easy,“ he says. The Bank of Baroda branch on the highway is bustling with activity, with officials scrambling to ensure all villagers have bank accounts and use ATM cards.“They will lose confidence in the cashless system if there is even a small error in the functioning of the cards or our machines,“ says bank manager Praveen Kumar.
 
 Venkatappa S sells around 100kg of silk every month. Until four months ago, he would carry his produce to the silk auction market, 5km from his village, sell it and come back feeling cheated. “Today, the transactions are through cheque. So everyone is aware of how much is exchanged between the merchants and the growers,“ says the third-generation silk grower.
 
 Vishakantaiah L, another silk grower and a former employee of the Karnataka Silk Industries Corporation, says the biggest challenge was to convince villagers their money was safe with the bank and they could withdraw it anytime. “The old practice of stocking up cash at home is no longer prevalent in the village,“ he says.
 
 Along with ATM cards, news of ATM card frauds has reached the village. “We have been told not to give out any card or bank details to anyone on the phone. A police team regularly conducts awareness drives for the villagers,“ says Vishykumar, a kirana store owner who proudly shows off his ATM card.
 
 “All my purchases for the store are done through cheque and cards,“ he adds. While RuPay is used for small transactions, small traders like him are awaiting swiping machines to do their daily business without cash.
 
 The women have gone further than just doing away with cash in daily dealings. They have formed small groups to create awareness on the benefits of going cashless.
 
 “We tell the women that their money is safe in the bank and that they must keep the bank or the group informed whenever there is some transaction,“ said Anusuya D, who leads a small self-help group in the village.
 
 Even in the gram panchayat, the transactions are through cheques and cards. “Various government allowances and pensions are transacted only through their bank accounts. All of them have Aadhaar too, so there is no scope for cheating,“ says Bhagyalakshmamma, Gram Panchayat member.
 
 
 
 Armed with handheld swipe machines, Shobha VR and Shakuntalamma, both employees of Bank of Baroda's Vondaraguppe branch, head out to the village at 7am to disburse cash. “Many women and senior citizens cannot come to the bank. The village is situated across the highway, so we take cash to their doorsteps... They can swipe their Aadhaar and verify their credentials.“ The duo also disburses widow pension, PF and salaries for the anganwadi workers. “Their Aadhaar cards are linked to the bank account. So we ensure their transactions come to our notice and they don't get cheated,“ says Shobha.
 
 
 
 Vondaraguppe's transition to cashless transactions is laudable. While its silk farmers are accepting payment through cheque, villagers are using RuPay for smaller transactions and obtaining pension funds etc by swiping their cards. Such cashless modes will bring in much-needed transparency in payments. It, however, remains to be seen if Vondaraguppe can sustain the momentum and move on to online payments. As of now, many village traders are waiting for card machines which will allow residents to make even everyday purchases with a swipe. This will make it easier for villagers, especially for the old and infirm, to buy essential items without having to make frequent trips to the bank to withdraw cash.
 
