PUNE: Gone are the days when referring to the textbook, a self-study questions' set or a tuition teacher would suffice for an anxious student in the  . Now, students take to   and drills in the comfort of one's home and on a one-to-one basis for better marks.

 With her   just a week away,   Mulay, a standard IX student of   high school and junior college, has dedicated her evening hours to prepare for most of the subjects.
 
 The unlimited Wi-Fi connection that her parents have bought boosts the cellphone application she uses. It throws up daily mock tests for which she gets instantly assessed and can map her strengths and weaknesses.
 
 Like Shatakshi, thousands of other students in the city across examination boards are spending at least three to four hours daily on the numerous cellphone apps available in the market that enable students to do the term-end revision of all the subjects.
 
 These practice tests are available for a fee and provide features such as practising fresh questions and analysing their performance on-thespot. “I am using some apps on the cellphone and solving practice question papers since we are now revising whatever was done during the year. These apps are helpful because they point out my mistakes and suggest ways of correcting them.The assessment is instant,“ Shatakshi said.
 
 The apps provide innovative programmes that offer learning content on personal computers, tablets or smart phones. The apps include lectures, eBooks, assessments and much more.
 
 Shobhit Bhatnagar, chief executive officer and co-founder, Gradeup, a cellphone app said, “Mock tests play an important role in a student's preparation by aligning their preparation with the assessment done for the exam. These apps help students identify their strong and weak areas in terms of speed and accuracy, and in developing their testtaking strategy. A lot of web sites and apps have created assessment tests based on previous year's papers.“
 
 This app has over 1.2 lakh users across the country on the mock test section. app called Toppr has features such as lecture videos, multiple choice question bank among others and has over three lakh students in the country using it. Their average time spent for the app usage is 80-100 minutes daily. Zishaan Hayath, founder and chief executive officer, Toppr.com, said, “We see increasing interest among students in the apps that can help them with problems such as access, attention and quality .About 55% of users in Toppr are from smaller cities and towns. Even when teachers are available in the class it is impossible for them to give attention to each of the 70 students [on average].“ Students spend between an hour and an hour and forty minutes per day watching lectures, practising questions and asking doubts they have with their studies. The apps are increasingly helping students with personal learning solutions, available anywhere and at any time the students need them.
 
 They look to connect to good teachers and substantial0 content instantly. “The bottom line is that every student is unique and the learning apps are constantly trying to deliver effective learning for each one of them,“ Hayath added.
 
 Parent Vishwesh Palkar said, “I had a few colleagues who had downloaded these apps for their children and their feedback was very good.My son is appearing for the physics olympiad and I found that there were many apps available to cater to this examination. At present, he relies on the app for preparation. He finds it at par with any classroom learning.“
 
