Bollywood singing sensation, Armaan Malik’s performance was the highlight of the pre-release do of   on Saturday. Hyderabad Times caught up with the 21-year-old who opened up about his little known Secunderabad connection, new-found stardom and relationship status among other things. Excerpts: 

 
 Yes I am. My mother is Telugu. Though she was born in Vizag, she later shifted to Hyderabad and stayed with my grandparents for years in Secunderabad before shifting to Mumbai. I remember coming here for holidays and family weddings. Moreover, it’s because of my mother that I learnt Telugu and can understand and speak it.
 
 
 
 Yeah, but my Bollywood projects and world tours have kept me so busy that I couldn’t take up more Telugu projects. But now that I’m back with PK’s Katamarayudu, I’ll be a little consistent in taking up more Telugu projects. Moreover, it was fun singing the Emo Emo... song because I am more comfortable singing in Telugu than Tamil or Kannada, where I constantly look for meanings of every line.
 
 
 
 Thank you! Well, I’m very choosy when it comes picking songs. Whatever song I take up, I feel it should be remembered and should be on everyone’s lips. I’m happy that my songs have managed to strike a chord with my fans. I believe every singer has his or her own style and choice of songs and I am glad I’ve managed to create a niche for myself. 
 
 
 Trust me, I haven’t got anything easy. I started off as a participant in the singing reality show Sa Re Ga Ma Pa. After which I started getting lot of offers and sang many jingles as a child artiste. Later, a lot of music composers, who remembered me as a child artiste, offered me Bollywood songs and things worked for me. Even as a family, we have struggled a lot because my dad was the lesser known ‘Malik’ in the family whereas Anu uncle was a veteran. I know what all my father has gone through, so I always wanted to become the pillar of support for my family. It has been a journey and I’m proud to have reached here on my own. 
 
 
 
 Well I am too young to be an actor and also I don’t think I can pull it off ever. And my career in singing is going well and I don’t want to jeopardise it by getting into acting and which is also a little hectic. Also, I keep doing my solo albums where I get to be myself and show my acting skills through videos. So that much of acting you can expect from me (laughs). 
 
 
 
 I am very much single and not ready to mingle. Especially now, because my focus is my music. And I’m a very private person so even if I’ll be in a relationship in future, people won’t know about it. And I do feel blessed to have a fan following. In fact I remember a fan once sent me a picture of her with my name cut on her hand that was a little crazy for me, I was shocked. Having said that, I am aware of the fan following I have, but I don’t take it into my head.
 
