BAMLA (BHIWANI): Family of Bhiwani’s ex-serviceman Ram Kisan Grewal, who committed suicide in New Delhi two months ago over one rank, one pension (OROP) issue, is yet to get the compensation announced by the Haryana government and Delhi chief minister  .

 After two months, the family members are sitting beside Kitab Kaur, widow of Grewal, at their house, chalking a strategy to continue their fight for ‘martyr’ status for him and the compensation announced for them.
 
 “When we refused to accept my father’s body after the autopsy in Delhi on November 2, 2016, which later got overwhelming support from ex-servicemen and political outfits, the senior officers from the Centre and Haryana assured us of agreeing to all our demands at the earliest,” said Jaswant Singh, son of Grewal.
 
 Haryana cabinet minister Krishan Lal Panwar, who visited the family during the cremation of Grewal, had announced Rs 10 lakh to his kin with the assurance to discuss the issue of conferring martyr’s status for the deceased with chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, said Jaswant, whom his father called up after consuming poison in New Delhi on telephone.
 
 Later, Khattar had refused to grant ‘martyr’ status to Grewal, citing it to be a misfit case for the honour. 
 
 Remembering her husband, who had also remained the village sarpanch, Kitab said, “A year before on the same day, my husband prepared ‘gajarpak’ (sweet made from carrots and milk) for all of us. He would celebrate every festival with gusto but he was very particular about the issues pertaining to the former defence personnel.”
 
 She said even after he had left the sarpanch post, people used to visit him in flocks with their issues, and he never minded going an extra mile to help them.
 
 On martyr status for Grewal, Kitab said they had met the Bhiwani deputy commissioner Pankaj twice, Bhiwani MP Dharambir, Haryana minister Panwar, but their efforts remained fruitless. 
 
 On other announcements, she said they were yet to receive Rs 10 lakh announced by the state government and Rs 1 crore announced by Kejriwal. “Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi and Kejriwal were in constant touch with the family through their party leaders. They still vow their support to the family,” said Kitab, who has five sons and two daughters. 
 
 Kejriwal’s Rs 1 crore announcement and a government job to one of the family members were also eluding the family, she said.
 
 When contacted, Pankaj TOI that the compensation issue was under process with the state government. AAP state convener Naveen Jahind said the Delhi CM was still with the grieved family and sent the proposal to lieutenant governor for the approval. “As soon as ‘martyr’ status file gets approval, the compensation would be extended to Grewal’s family,” he said.
 
 
