BENGALURU:   founders   and   have told employees of the beleaguered online retailer that their job security is top priority for them, even as the company's investors discuss various options for the e-tailer.

 TOI has reviewed a copy of the email communication sent by Bahl to the Snapdeal staff on Sunday, after news surfaced over the past few weeks of the company being in talks with bigger rival   for a potential sale helmed by its largest investor Japan's  .
 
 "There has been a lot of media reporting and speculation around Snapdeal recently. While our investors are driving discussions about the way forward, I am reaching out to let you know that the well being of the entire team is mine and Rohit's top priority. We will do all that we can, and more, in working with our investors to ensure there is no disruption in employment and that there are positive professional as well as financial outcomes for the team as the way forward becomes clearer...," the email said. 
 
 This is the third communication by the founders in the last two months aimed to calm the nerves of their employees amid uncertainties surrounding the company's future.
 
 As reported by TOI in its March 28 edition, SoftBank is currently orchestrating the sale of Snapdeal, wherein the Japanese group is likely to invest up to $1.5 billion in the merged entity by picking up primary and secondary shares. SoftBank may end up with around 15% in the Flipkart-Snapdeal combine, if the transaction goes through successfully .
 
 Snapdeal's woes over the past few months have been chronicled in a series of news reports, as it battles to survive in a cash-guzzling e-commerce market. We also reported in our April 6 edition that SoftBank, which holds more than 30% in  , the parent of Snapdeal and  , is looking to sell the e-wallet firm for as low as $200 million, having bought it for $400 million in a cash-and-stock deal two years back.
 
 While the e-tailer resorted to mass layoffs, it went ahead and conducted its appraisal process for the fiscal year 2017. Employees said they were expecting their final appraisal letters to reach them next week. 
 
 "Given the incredible progress we have made around our profitability journey as a company , the overall increments this year are higher than those offered last year," the email from the founders noted. 
 
 Some of the employees TOI spoke to said the final communication on their annual performance review had been delayed. "The communication says we will get better increments than last year, which seems very astonishing," said an employee who did not wish to be named.
 
