BENGALURU:  , and the police department has sharpened its skills in cracking cases using  . In fact, the   had created history way back in 1988 by using a DNA test to solve a murder case.

 For nearly six years, the Forensic Sciences Lab near   has been carrying out DNA fingerprint analysis, a method used to identify an individual from a sample by looking at unique patterns in their DNA.
 
 In many cases, miscreants leave behind little or no visible clue at the crime scene.But they often suffer injuries while committing a crime, which could result in a few drops of blood falling at the spot. In cases like rape and sexual harassment, body fluids or biological samples of the accused are collected by cops. The 1988 case involved the grisly murder of a pregnant woman. Retired SP N Nagaraj, who was at the forefront of investigation, recalled how the mystery had been solved with the help of DNA tests.
 
 When the woman mysteriously went missing ously went missing from her husband's residence in Rajajinagar, North Bengaluru, local police brought the matter to the notice of Nagaraj, then a young sub-inspector.
 
 “A neighbour's statement and eyewitness accounts told me that the pregnant woman was last seen with her husband. Closer questioning helped us crack the case. The woman's father-in-law, an entomologist, had chopped her into pieces and stuffed them into a gunny bag. The father and son had scattered the pieces all over the GKVK campus,“ Nagaraj said.
 
 Nagaraj and his team carefully combed the area and recovered seven bone pieces, and put together the skull, jaw and spine.
 
 “At the same time, an international seminar on DNA was going on at Chennai (then Madras) and we contacted a professor who guided us on how we should proceed, and collect DNA samples from the recovered bones,“ Nagaraj said. The samples were sent to the Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL) in Hyderabad in 1991.
 
 “We took blood and bone samples from the  .
 
 The samples matched,“ Naga raj said. The father died in prison, while the son was ac quitted by the Supreme Court.
 
 City police commissioner T Suneel Kumar said he urg es his staff to collect more scientific evidence like DNA fingerprinting, so that it helps investigating officers solve the case and also to get the accused convicted.
 
 
 
 A law student was gang-raped inside a university campus in West Bengaluru in 2012. Eight men, including a juvenile, were nabbed on gang rape charges; a court convicted seven men and sentenced them to life imprisonment and handed over the juvenile to a remand home.
 
 During the course of investigation, police collected genetic fingerprints from the accused as well as the survivor.When the trial began, police submitted all their evidence, including a red sweater worn by the prime accused. Counsel for the accused had argued that merely matching the mud on the survivor's clothes and the accused's sweater doesn't mean he is the culprit. Finally, police submitted DNA fingerprints of the accused and survivor, and a report by the FSL confirmed that the DNA fingerprints match.
 
 Based on abundant material evidence, eyewitness accounts and mainly fingerprint DNA, court convicted the accused.
 
 
 
 
 Realtor and small-time politician C Krishnappa alias Bar Krishnappa rammed his high-end Land Rover into pedestrians, shoppers and vegetable vendors near the Hosur Road-Parappana Agrahara Road Junction, killing four people. Krishnappa, who was driving under the influence of alcohol, fled the spot.
 
 Police arrested the accused and charged him under IPC 304 ­ culpable homicide not amounting to murder. Counsel for the accused argued that his client was not present inside the vehicle when the accident occurred.Knowing that such arguments would pop up, police submitted blood and hair samples recovered inside the vehicle, which proved that the accused was behind the wheel at the time of the accident.
 
