NEW DELHI:   Ltd said it has agreed to acquire Finnish wiring harness maker   Group Plc for about Rs 4,150 crore, setting in motion one of the biggest buyouts by an Indian auto parts maker.
 
  The company on Friday said it will launch a public tender offer to fully acquire PKC Group, through a fully-owned subsidiary to be set up for the purpose, by March end. Noida-based   Systems is a joint venture between domestic auto component maker Samvardhana Motherson Group and Sumitomo Wiring Systems of Japan.
  
  The proposed deal will be funded through MSSL’s internal accruals and the Rs 1,993 crore it had raised through a qualified institutional placement in September last year. “The prospect of two global teams coming together and the synergies that will be brought about, is very exciting to us,” MSSL chairman   said. “It will allow us to create huge value for our customers and service our customers in additional locations in the world.”
  
 
  The deal will enable the company to expand its presence in the niche market of global wiring harness business for commercial vehicles. “The wiring harness business registered revenues of around ¤800 million in the last financial year,” said MSSL’s CFO GN Gauba.
  
  
 
  “The turnover from this segment will more than double post the completion of this acquisition,” Gauba added. The combination of MSSL and PKC Group is expected to be value accretive since there is minimal overlap between their existing operations in terms of geographical presence and synergies in product segments. As per preliminary estimates, PKC Group clocked revenue of Euro 846 million in 2016.
  
  “Inorganic growth has been the key in growing Motherson Sumi’s presence globally,” said VG Ramakrishnan, managing partner at Avanteum Advisors LLP. “In fact, most of the acquisitions that the group has made have been on the recommendations of clients. So it has not only helped them scale up operations internationally but also gain in terms of clientele.”
  
  Headquartered in Helsinki, PKC Group is a tier-I global supplier of wiring harness and associated components to manufacturers of heavy and medium duty commercial vehicles and locomotive segments across North America, Europe, Brazil and China. MSSL’s board of directors had on Thursday approved the proposal to launch a voluntary, recommended public tender offer for the acquisition of issued and outstanding share capital and voting rights of PKC Group.
  
  “PKC shareholders are being offered a cash consideration of Euro 23.55 for each share/options in PKC representing an aggregate equity purchase price of approximately ¤571 million in an open tender offer,” MSSL said in a statement. The shares of PKC Group are currently listed on the Nasdaq Helsinki stock exchange. MSSL and PKC Group entered into a combination agreement for the proposed transaction, which is subject to the completion of closing conditions and receipt of necessary regulatory approvals.
