Sure, we have many examples of many B-Town kids riding high because of their starry lineage that ensures their brush with stardom right from childhood. And there are many who have also talked about the relentless pressure to live up to their famous surnames. Interestingly there are many new celebs in the Gujarati film industry, who also share a similar trajectory. From being a strong support system, to handling the pressure of comparisons (with their star parent) to learning some life-altering lessons from their celeb parents, these stars decode their exciting journeys that their starry background offers:

 
 Having a parent who is a celebrity or who is established in a field you are pursuing is definitely helpful in opening doors and opportunities initially. But after your first project, you are on your own. If one doesn’t have the skills or talent and doesn’t put in the hard work and dedication, one can’t go far. Ultimately excelling in a field has to be on one’s own merit and nothing else.
 
 
 “Having a parent/s in the showbiz industry can really be helpful. I learnt a lot from being with my father and watching him enact every emotion be it in stage or while our stint together in Chutta Chedha. However, one thing which I have learnt from him and which will always be engraved in my mind is that, as an artist it wouldn’t matter if I miss by a whisker when it comes to enacting the role as required, but if as a human being, pride and arrogance engulfs me, my career will cease that day.”
 
 
 
 Although I never enjoyed dance when I was young, my mother used to make me learn dancing. As I started enjoying it and being on the stage frequently for dance shows, my stage fear vanished in no time. I started learning from my mother about the finer nuances of emoting. This further helped me in enacting every role that I took up, with utmost ease. Not just this, when I took up direction, it helped me to make my team understand what I wanted from them in every scene. My mother brought in me a sense of compassion and sensitivity, which has and will always be helpful.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 I believe having a parent in the entertainment industry does give us an upper hand as we are aware of how the local film industry functions. They might also help us in getting our first break, but to survive after that is our own battle which every star kid has to go through. It has been a challenging and a fun ride till now, as there has been a constant comparison between dad and me. Initially there was pressure on me, but over the years, I have learnt to deal with the pressure, and criticism, while still adding my unique touch to every song and performance.
 
 
  
 
 Both my parents are theatre artists and that has helped me a lot, when it comes to handling my acting assignments. But like a regular actor, I went through every audition to get roles. I remember I used to accompany my father to every rehearsal, be it in the city or outside. When I started doing theatre, people were expecting me to be as good as my parents. Initially it was quite daunting as you are constantly under pressure. However, over the years I'm not just getting used to the comparisons and am trying to make my own mark both in theatre and the film industry. Their experience certainly helps me in decision making in every sphere of my life.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 This pretty actor started her career with a Gujarati film and she has also started her journey in Bollywood. She was quoted saying that she wanted to do as many regional movies as possible and her Gujarati film debut has been a great learning experience. Like any other newcomer, she too went through the rigorous audition process. She aims to make a name for her in showbiz on her own terms.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
