
 
  I was struck by the manner in which the accused in the   reportedly considered their victim. One, Leno, was infatuated with her, so his friends “started challenging (him) to wish her on New Year, ‘if at all he had guts’.”
  
  Challenges and guts. Words steeped in bravado. But also words that might seem cute elsewhere. Let’s imagine, for a moment, another world: a shy guy, after friendly encouragement, approaches the girl he likes, mumbles some sweet words of appreciation, maybe gives her a gift, and asks her out on a date. Sadly, we don’t seem to live here.
  
  Why not? What gets lost in translation? How does a youthful infatuation end in sexual assault? And how is it that so many men in our country do not know how to behave around or toward women?
  
  Could part of it be that they simply don’t understand them? That they have been raised or conditioned to see women as distant objects. Objects of desire, objects of virtue, but objects all the same. Could it also be that these boys and men do not know themselves? No one is excusing the act, but we should at least consider the source of the act.
  
  Societies throughout history have developed strategies to channel and control the  . Marriage. Segregation. Religious Injunction. Moral Instruction. Art, politics and war, too. Indeed, human society as a whole, it could be argued, is the regulation of sexuality and desire. Whatever the position on this, puritanical or permissive, relaxed or uptight, its presence cannot be denied.
  
  And yet this is exactly what our society, and our authorities, be it parents, schools or governments, seem bent on doing.
  
  Did you know that ‘puberty’ is a censored word on some Indian TV channels? Along with ‘condom’, ‘period’ and ‘sex’. Did you know that the HRD ministry seeks to remove the word ‘sex’ itself from sex education in schools? Did you know that nine boys and girls in 2015 were reprimanded for sitting together on a school bench in a Kerala school, a move later supported by the education minister? Did you know that women students of Vellore Institute of Technology are not allowed out of the campus for the first three months?
  
  What do they hope to achieve by all these?
  
  It’s generally agreed that assault, molestation, harassment and rape should end but agreement diverges on how to go about it. There are varied solutions. Harsher punishment is one answer. “Hang the rapist!” “Castrate him in the street for all to see!” Another is to have stricter controls on alcohol. Then there are the controls outlined above, the ones limiting freedoms or controlling what we see and know.
  
  Despite all these, assaults continue to happen, women continue to feel routinely unsafe in the streets, or else are kept in the role of second-class citizens in their own land.
  
  So realistically, what steps can be taken? Well, to begin with, as others have argued, we can address the symptoms in a positive way. Instead of keeping women away from the world, we can reinforce women’s rights to public spaces, we can take responsibility for women’s (and men’s) safety by actively challenging instances where harassment occurs, rather than retreating into   defensiveness. We can stop saying these things ‘just happen’, or that ‘boys will be boys’. We can support the protest of movements like Pinjra Tod, and spread awareness.
  
  But there’s something else we can do too, which is to dig out the root, to chip away and challenge the segregation of the sexes in childhood and youth, in the time when boys and girls are developing their understanding of the world. This is just as vital.
  
  The French have a habit of allowing their children to drink a glass of wine with the meal. It doesn’t lead to a nation of alcoholics, but rather a nation where moderation is the norm, and alcohol is treated with respect. This is not a perfect analogy — I’m not suggesting kids should be encouraged to have sex. Instead I’m trying to say that a sensitisation and openness between the two sexes from childhood can lead to a situation where sex is not the elephant in the room, where relations are not so clouded by this thing that we all feel, yet is so heavily repressed.
  
  By allowing men and women greater freedom to interact on every level from an earlier age, to play, to talk, to understand, to develop and work through feelings, and to do this in a culture devoid of repression, guilt and shame, we might just be able to calm the misplaced, pent-up desire, anger, pride and frustration that finds its clumsy, unpleasant and often brutal outlet in our society today.
