PUDUCHERRY: In signs of a widening rift with the Congress government in Puducherry, Lt governor   on Tuesday said that it wants her to be just a “figurehead“ though the rules assign her responsibilities of an administrator and made it clear she won't back down.

 Sticking to her announcement about quitting the post on May 29 next year, Bedi said she took the decision as she is discharging her duties for a “cause and not a tenure“ and will “set in motion the needed practices“ so a “third year may not be needed at all“.
 
 Amid growing differences between her and the Congress government in Puducherry , Bedi had last week said she would quit the post on completion of two years in office.
 
 Asked what prompted her to make the announcement well in advance, Bedi noted she took oath as LG on May 29 (last year) as it was her mother's birthday , and wanted a similar departure date.
 
 “I said two years because I wanted to let it be known that I am here (as LG of Puducherry) for a cause and not a tenure, or waiting for extensions.
 
 “I will set in motion the needed practices. Third year may not be needed at all. Such a decision gives a sense of urgency to my team and personal freedom to me,“ she said.
 
 Referring to Puducherry being “in a debt trap“, Bedi said she will take necessary steps for financial prudence.
 
 “Whatever steps are within my responsibility , I shall exercise them. Precious resources must go where they are needed most.
 
 “Puducherry is in a debt trap. We have to check its further decline,“ said Bedi, who attended the valedictory ceremony of the   as chief guest. Bedi's January 7 statement to quit the post at the end of her two-year tenure came a day after eight Congress MLAs shot off a memorandum to Union Home Minister   complaining about her style of functioning, in the backdrop of her cancelling an order of chief minister   banning officials from using social media for official communication.
 
 The former   had initiated several measures, including to check crime and corruption and for a garbage-free Puducherry. Differences between the Lt governor and the government had occasionally come into the open, though Narayanasamy had maintained the ties were cordial.
 
 In August last year, Bedi had reportedly threatened to quit her post and leave Puducherry over alleged lack of cooperation from officials for her Clean Puducherry Mission.
 
