CUTTACK:   were all finesse but no finish in the Federation Cup semifinal here on Sunday. But football is about goals and   reminded their traditional rivals of its true significance with a 2-0 win to march into the final with  . Darryl Duffy handed Bagan the lead in the 35th minute. Balwant Singh stylishly finished off Katsumi Yusa's cross six minutes from time to kill off East Bengal.

 In the earlier semifinal, reports Sudeshna Ghosh, Bengaluru FC survived a 97th-minute 'regulation time' hearstopper against   to earn themselves a place in the final. Leading 1-0 through an eight-minute Cameron Watson goal, Bengaluru could only watch as Aziawl's Lalramchullova stepped up to take up the penalty after   brought down Kamo Bayi.But goalkeeper Amrinder's stop off the weak shot finally halted Aizawl's dream run this season. Both finalists will move to Kolkata to play their AFC Cup group match this Wednesday before returning here with the title at stake next Sunday.
 
 In the evening game, East Bengal began in a blistering pace. But striker Willis Plaza's horrendous form continued when he failed to keep the ball on target from close following a brilliant layoff by   in the eighth minute.
 
 Rafique had a brilliant game but also made a complete mess of a 63rd-minute opportunity that could have tilted the game. With Anas losing track of a long ball, Rafique could have scored with any part of his boy, but instead ended up pushing it wide.
 
 Earlier, midway into the first half,   whipped in the cross from the left. EB captain Arnab Mondal committed the cardinal sin of ball-watching and lost sight of the danger lurking nearby. Duffy came by his blind side to meet the cross with a glancing header, beating Subhashis hands down. East Bengal huffed and puffed in search of their equalizer thereafter but it Bagan sealed the deal in brilliant fashion. Balwant Singh provided the coup de grace with a superb overhead kick in the 84th minute, dealing the decisive blow to East Bengal's comeback hopes and keeping his own team on track for defending the title.
 
