BHOPAL: All India Muslim Tyohar committee ( ), Bhopal has issued a resolution to boycott against the movie “Lipstick under my burkha” and its stars. They claimed that it has hurt the sentiments of the community by relating “burqa” to such narrow mentality. The movie has been directed by Alankrita Shrivastava and produced by Prakash Jha.

 Along with boycott, they have also warned directors not to visit the capital; else their protest might go harsh. The matter of movie having objectionable content was raised by community members in Majlis-e-Shura and the decision for boycott at all the levels was taken.
 
 Talking to TOI,  , president of  , said, “How narrow can a person think. Those who have scripted and directed thsi movie has insulted the our  . Burqa is considered pious and one of the most important religious principle. If anyone will disgrace our principles like this we will take strict action against them. AIMTC’s Mumbai unit has already initiated a legal action on the matter. Protest will be taken to highest possible level.”
 
 The film story revolves about four women - burqa-clad college girl, a young beautician, a mother of three and a 55-year-old widow who rediscovers her sexuality. Some content of the movie is also related and shot in Bhopal too. The reasons given by censor board for denial are use of abusive words, audio pornography, and sensitive touch to a certain section of society.
 
 Thanking to censor board, Khurram said, “We are happy that censor board has refused to give the certificate to movie. But if the certification is given by any chance we will also move towards legal action against the movie. Today they are making fun of women from a certain community, if not stopped they might target women in other community too.”
 
 However, there are different opinions among the community members. Where some want a complete ban on the movie, some have presented the opinion to watch the movie first and then decide about the content.
 
 Zulfikar Ali, a local film production consultant who has also worked with Prakash Jha said, “According to me we should see the movie first and then decide about anything. If after watching anything comes up like hurting our sentiments we will support the boycott only then.”
 
