BENGALURU: Notwithstanding the petition before the   against moving of the   campus to Ramanagara, the government has printed an invitation for a programme scheduled on March 19, where the announcement on the shifting will be made. But opposition to the move has only got louder, with more colleges seeking legal recourse.

 While 53 colleges affiliated to the varsity approached the high court in February, 50 more will file a fresh petition on Friday. The petitioner colleges have said issues like the government’s failure to call for fresh tenders for the   construction and the land acquisition matter pending before the Supreme Court need to be sorted out first.
 
 In 2007, when the government first conceived the plan to shift the campus, the contract was given to Nagarjuna Construction Company Limited. However, the contract was mired in a controversy as it was granted even before the amendment to the   (RGUHS) Act, allowing the relocation, was made. The project cost was estimated at Rs 300 crore. The Public Works Department (PWD) had released Rs 33 crore to the firm even before the land was acquired.
 
 “Investigations resulted in the contract becoming null and void, and a few PWD officials were suspended,” said Lakshmy Iyengar, who is representing the colleges in HC. 
 
 After 10 years, the government has failed to call for fresh tenders, but is granting the order to Nagarjuna again at a revised cost—about Rs 600 crore. “The petitioners feel there is no transparency in the process. They are unable to comprehend why the government is in a hurry to implement the proposal,” Lakshmy said.
 
 Medical education minister Sharan Prakash Patil, however, said: “The finance department had looked into the matter. The original contract was never cancelled. In fact, it was reaffirmed in 2010, which means the contract was always with the firm.”
 
 With the land in Archakarahalli, Ramanagara — where the new campus is proposed to be built — locked in litigation, the government is forcing the university to shift to a temporary campus in the DC’s office. Varsity members had argued that spending money on creating infrastructure in the temporary campus and again incurring expenditure on the new campus is not in the university’s interest, TOI had reported in January.
 
 
 
 
 The government, which had initially said it would share the cost of construction, has now asked the university to bear the total cost. “It will cost approximately Rs 600 crore and the government wants the university to incur it. RGUHS doesn’t get any grant from the government. Spending such a huge sum from the corpus, which is the only source, is unacceptable to the petitioners,” Lakshmy said. 
 
 Patil, however, argued that unused money in the corpus will attract income tax, and the move to make the university spend on the campus is not illogical.
 
 
