NOIDA: Four people were arrested for thrashing a 33-year-old software engineer, when he asked them to stop playing   on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday, in   in Sector 120. The accused dragged the victim inside the room and punched him on his face, eyes and body. A security guard accompanying the victim fled from the spot when the assault occurred. 

 The victim, Ajay Kumar, lives with his wife Alpana Singh and their three-month-old son on the 15th floor in D Block. Around 12.30am, his son began to feel uneasy because of loud music coming from a flat on the 14th floor. Kumar accompanied a security guard and went to that flat and told the occupants to stop the music.
 
 Rajendra Pal, Ajay’s father, said there were four occupants in the flat. “They grabbed Ajay’s collar, dragged him inside, and started punching him on his face and body. My son suffered serious injuries on his face and fell on the floor,” Pal said, adding he was not in the flat when the assault occurred.
 
 Ajay received serious injuries and was rushed to District Hospital. He received four stitches on his face and was moved to Tripathi Hospital for better care. 
 
 Police said the accused, flat owner Ankit Mishra, is a lawyer at the Supreme Court. He was drinking with his wife and two friends.
 
 Some neighbours heard the noise and reached the spot and took Ajay to hospital. Residents informed police and registered an FIR for voluntarily causing hurt and criminal intimidation, under sections 323, 504 and 506 of the IPC.
 
 Later, Ajay’s family members and around 30 residents gathered outside Phase 3 police station and demanded they charge the accused with attempt to murder. 
 
 Pal gave another application and named Ankit Mishra, his wife Kanupriya and friends Magar Dhwaj and Vishal Sharma. “The four accused badly thrashed my son and also tried to push him to the ground,” Pal said.
 
 Shyam, another resident of Amrapali Zodiac, said the neighbours could rescue the victim as they reached the spot on time. “The accused play loud music almost every day. But we never imagined a neighbour would be thrashed so badly for advising them to stop it,” he said. Fearing the situation could escalate, police called the four accused to the police station.
 
 Ummed Singh, the SHO of Phase 3 police station, said a case has been registered and they have been arrested. “The accused will be produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” he said.
 
 “We are sorry for what had happened. It was unintentional,” said the main accused, Ankit Mishra.
 
