JAIPUR: Centre’s   (RBSK) is proving to be a success in   with the help of   specialists of private hospitals. The government has paid over Rs 3 crore to   for surgeries of children with   till date.

 The scheme was launched by Centre in the state in 2014-15. The scheme identifies children with 30 different diseases by conducting screening at anganwadi and schools. Those found suffering from congenital heart diseases in the screening get free treatment from government. In 2014-15, 35 children were operated upon. In 2015-16, government provided free surgeries to 140 such children and in 2016-17 so far 133 surgeries have already been conducted in the state.
 
 Sadly, there is no facility in government hospitals where children with congenital heart diseases could be operated. Gujarat government, though, has set up an operation theatre in a government hospital where such children are operated upon.
 
 The health department pays Rs 60,000 for a surgery, but it can go up to Rs 1.6 lakh per surgery in private hospitals. In the last three years, government has given more than Rs 3 crore to private hospitals for surgeries.
 
 The aim of introducing RBSK was early identification and early intervention for children from birth up to 18 years to cover 4 ‘D’s — defects at birth, deficiencies, diseases and development delays including disability.
 
 Even J K Lon Hospital, which is the biggest child speciality hospital in the state, does not have facility for heart surgeries of children.
 
 A health department official said, “We do not have specialists in government hospitals who could conduct surgeries on children with congenital heart diseases, which is why we have to refer these children to private hospitals for surgeries to save their lives. So far, we have saved 307 lives by conducting surgeries in private hospitals. Only one patient has died, which was a complicated case.”
 
 For children who have congenital heart diseases, RBSK has proven to be a boon. They do not have to pay anything for the surgery, as government pays for it.
 
 
