NEW DELHI: His name is Gulshan, Hindi for garden, but neck-deep in the sludge at Mundka on Thursday, he is better off with his nickname of Kale, or black. "I have looked for other jobs, but this is the easiest for people from my community of Valmikis," says the youth. Kale, clad in just his briefs, is visibly drunk. Alcohol is the only way that he and his friends can deaden their senses enough carry out the assignment given to them by the contractor.

 Kale is not even supposed to be doing what he is doing. The manual clearance of human excreta and waste was banned in 2013. Yet even now, the three municipal corporations in Delhi have 2,382 nala beldars, or drain cleaners, on their rolls. Delhi Jal Board does too, though it claims it has not asked its beldars to enter sewers and tanks since 2014. "All drain cleaning work is mechanised and only in case of emergencies do we send someone into drains as allowed by law," said a senior DJB official. 
 
 DJB asserts it provides protective   to workers if they have to enter sewers and drains, but the municipal corporations admit they have   such equipment for their sanitation staff. Neema Bhagat, mayor of the East Delhi Municipal, which employees 1,063 nala beldars, the highest among the three corporations, told TOI that the problem in providing protective gear is a problem of finance, not lack of will. "Without money, we can’t think of purchasing   gear for sanitation workers," she said. 
 
 However, Bezwada  , convenor of Safai Karamchari Andolan, isn’t happy about the agencies claiming they provide safety gear to manual scavengers. The law lists certain items for a sewer cleaner to use in emergencies. "Technically, agencies meet these norms, but they provide things that workers can never use. For instance, they give low, uncomfortable boots or gloves that don’t fit," said Wilson.
 
 Rajendra Mewati, who heads the  , concurred with Wilson. "I have never seen a nala beldar in Delhi working in full protective gear," averred Mewati. "It is a shame that in the 21st century, with the technology that is available, we still force naked workers to wade into filth." 
 
 Wilson said that a major failing of the current law is that it does not hold the administration responsible for deaths. "When a government body assigns the work, it had better know who is doing this work. Very often, the agency washes its hands of the assignment, while the contractor disappears. The judiciary has to be more proactive and hold the administration responsible for deaths," said Wilson.
 
 Sanjay Gahlot of Swatantra Mazdoor Vikas Sanyukt Morcha, a sanitation workers’ association, claimed the work was so risky that just 2-3% of nala beldars reached retirement age. "If an accident doesn’t kill them, their working conditions ensure sickness and early death," he said. "What are the Swachh Bharat funds being spent on?"
 
