GUWAHATI: For students in Assam, the floods-which have left thousands homeless- have been agonizing as the   have washed away many of their educational institutions. 

 As the day for reopening of schools after a month-long summer vacation nears, the biggest concern for teachers and pupils in the flood-hit areas is how to restore the academic ambience and infrastructure when classes are officially expected to resume from August 1. Hundreds of schools have been devastated by the recent flood, while many others are being used as shelters for flood-hit families. 
 
 With drinking water and sanitation facility in a shambles after the floods swept away many of the schools in central and lower Assam districts, the school community now stares at financial aid from the Centre to restore the schools.
 
 President of the Assam State Primary Teachers' Association, Jiban Chandra Borah, said the Centre must release an immediate financial package for renovating the schools. "We have been demanding the state government shift relief camps to highlands during floods. But the local administration is looking the other way. It is impossible to start classes in schools which have been used as relief camps. They could pose a huge health risk for children," said Borah.
 
 Out of nearly 150 primary schools in chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal's Majuli district, very few have been left intact for conducting classes. Now most schools will have to function from temporary structures. The authorities do not have the exact figure of the number of schools to have been devoured by the floods. But their number is growing every day. 
 
 Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan data shows that three primary schools were totally eroded in Majuli and one more school is facing the same fate unless measures are taken up to check erosion. 
 
 The situation is even more grave in lower Assam where 14 schools have been washed away in Dhubri district. Other schools have been severely damaged. 
 
 In   district, two schools have been eroded while seven schools have been totally damaged in Bongaigaon district. As many as nine schools have fully eroded in central Assam's Morigaon district, which has witnessed one of the worst floods in the recent past.
 
 On the other hand, two more schools have been damaged in adjoining Nagaon district. While over 350 schools have been partially damaged in the two districts that will need a long time to limp back to normalcy, most of the affected schools need a major facelift to bring children back to classrooms.
 
 
