NAGPUR: Newly selected leader of opposition Tanaji   of Congress launched an attack on his predecessor   saying that the latter had not consulted senior party corporators while making appointments to standing committee and other panels of   (NMC).

 Mahakalkar was ousted on Friday when divisional commissioner   as the leader of Congress party in the NMC. Vanve enjoys support of 16 out of 29 party corporators against just 13 backing Mahakalkar. Vanve’s appointment is a big jolt to city Congress president Vikas Thakre and his mentor and former MP Vilas Muttemwar.
 
 “Mahakalkar ignored veterans like Praful Gudadhe, Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto and Sandip Sahare. He did not take Congress corporators along and that is why there was a demand to remove him,” Vanve said addressing a press conference on Saturday after taking charge.
 
 Vanve claimed that his appointment had the approval of Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi and Ashok Chavan, president of Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC). “We had apprised the party observers about our views on Mahalkar. However, they did not listen to us. We then met Rahul under the leadership of former minister Anees Ahmed, former MP Gev Awari and former MLA Ashok Dhawad. Rahul advised us to meet Chavan,” he said.
 
 According to Vanve, Chavan summoned leaders of both factions in NMC Congress but when they failed to salvage a consensus, the MPCC chief said that the party would support whichever faction had the majority. “We returned from Mumbai and held a meeting of Congress corporators. Seventeen out of 29 corporators were in our favour. Gudadhe did not stake claim to post of leader of opposition and instead suggested my name,” he said.
 
 On Congress corporator Ramesh Punekar doing a U-turn on supporting him, Vanve said that Punekar would be in a better position to explain the change of his heart.
 
 On co-option of Congress activist Kishor Jichkar, Vanve said that NMC house would decide whether it would be Jichkar or Thakre. “However, I have supported Jichkar,” he added.
 
