THANE: A seven-year-old   from Digha, who was rendered permanently disabled after being hit by a minibus in 2009, has been ordered a   of Rs 22.35 lakh by the   here recently.

 Tribunal member KD Vadane held the driver of the minibus guilty for the lifetime damage caused to the girl and ordered the owner of the   and the insurance firm to jointly pay the cash compensation along with 8% interest.
 
 The   not only left Sakshi Ingle maimed for life, she also lost her mother in the accident, it is learnt.
 
 Sakshi and her mother were heading to her school in Kalwa on June 21, 2009 around 10.30 am when a minibus dashed into her causing severe injuries resulting in paraplegia, that is, impairment in motor or sensory function of the lower half of the legs.
 
 “When the mother-daughter duo reached the Vitawa railway under bridge, the minibus driver came in high speed and dashed into them from behind. As a result of which the girl as well as her mother were thrown away and suffered multiple grievous injuries. 
 
 While her mother succumbed to the injuries the girl survived,” the legal counsel representing Ingle informed the court. 
 
 The insurance company, which had insured the mini bus, contested the claim made by the victim’s father and blamed girl and her mother for the accident. It claimed that there was no negligence on the part of the driver and requested the court to dismiss the claim.
 
 The judge, after hearing both the counsels pointed out that the spot panchanama reveals the width of one side road was about 35 to 40 feet. Thus, inspite of sufficient width, the driver of minibus drove to the extreme left side of the road and dashed the girl and her mother. Thus, the contention of the claimant is corroborated by the police papers on record. After scrutinizing the medical papers and all relevant documents including the legal papers the compensation was finalized by the tribunal at Rs 22.35 lakh.
 
 Hence, the judge directed the owner of the minibus   and the insurance company to make the payment jointly along with the interest at 8% per annum till the date of realization.
 
