BENGALURU: In a display of its commitment to wards protecting the environment, St Joseph's Boys' High School (SJBHS) on Museum Road, Bengaluru, conducted a   March on December 15, 2016, which witnessed participation of more than 1,500 members including students, teachers and parents. The march was organised to highlight the many initiatives that the school has undertaken -use of solarpowered, and LED lights, segregation of waste, and abandoning use of printed circulars-to reduce its carbon footprint.

 The proceedings began with the school assembly that was presided over by Bengaluru  ,  , Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) commissioner N Manjunath Prasad, joint commissioners of BBMP Yatish Kumar and Sarfaraz Khan and DJ Halli corporator Sampath Kumar.
 
 Appreciating the efforts made by SJBHS to spread awareness about the environment, the mayor said that Bengaluru had changed from being the pensioner's paradise and a garden city, to a bustling city, that was not too ecofriendly .
 
 The march instilled a sense of responsibility among the boys, parents and teachers of the school towards the environment. SJBHS principal Father Clifford Sequeria said, “Our school is committed to restoring our common home.We hope that our students think of themselves as part of a larger planet, one they can save for posterity . The school is mak ing an effort to address these issues. We hope to launch more eco-friendly initiatives in the coming years. More importantly, we hope our students carry the message forward.“
 
 Where sports and science converge
 
 Junior Impression Aurum 2016-17, an inter-school competition hosted by Delhi Public School in Bangalore North, witnessed a coming together of science and sports on one platform. Inaugurated by the director of National Centre for Disease Informatics and Re search (NCDIR) Dr Prashant Mathur, the event witnessed participation of more than 2,500 students. Best out of waste, fancy dress, collage making, jam and yoga were among some of the activities at the event. Many prestigious schools took home accolades from the competition, which had been organised to identify hidden talents among children and help them make the right career choice.
 
 Sports meet sees a confluence of talents
 
 Students from 120 CBSE affiliated schools across Karnataka descend ed on Kanteerava Stadium in the city, to participate in the CBSE annual athletics meet, hosted by Edify School.Students were grouped under three categories at the sports event ­ under-14, under-17 and under-19.
 
 The opening ceremony saw the students of Edify School put on a display of hula hoops, lazim and exercises that drew rapturous applause from the crowd. A dance performance based on the song, `Shalege Hoguvevu (we shall go to school)' underscored the message of the Right to Education Act.
 
 President of   (VVNT), and chairman of Edify School KG Subbaraj presided over the event, while the chief athletic coach at SAI's eastern centre, Bangalore Virender Kumar Verma was the chief guest. Managing director of British Biologicals VS Reddy was the guest of honour on the first day of the meet. Edify School principal Niti Mahendra welcomed the guests to the event.
 
 The meet was declared open with the unfurling of the CBSE flag by Verma.This was followed by a torch relay that started with the guest of honour, Reddy .Athelets and delegates from various schools marched to the beat of the drums of students of VVNT.
 
 Dressed in the colours of the Karnataka flag ­ vermillion and yellow ­ the event's mascot, Tunta perfectly evoked the spirit of Kannada Rajyotsava among all participants.
 
 While president of the Sports Academy for the Dif ferently Abled, Satyanarayana was the chief guest on the second day of the meet, senior vicepresident of VVNT Arun Kumar BS presided over the closing ceremony . The efficiency with which all events were successfully conducted came in for praise from delegates, officials and teachers. “Hosting the CBSE athletic meet at Sri Kanteerava Stadium was an enriching experience. We wish the participants all the very best for the future, and congratulate all the winners,“ said Niti Mahendra.
 
