KOLKATA: When  , then a Class-X student, was to undergo an awake brain surgery in February 2012, she was petrified as she would be awake through the  . But once the surgery started, Moubani seemed to tide over her fears, interacting with the surgeons and helping them treat the correct area.

 Over the years, awake brain surgery or craniotomy has become the preferred technique for neurosurgeons to treat certain conditions, such as removing a tumour or managing epileptic seizures. “I was nervous on two counts: one it was a brain surgery and secondly, I would not be put to sleep. But at the very start, doctors put me at ease.They asked me to count and move my hands and toes even as they performed the operation. I kept acting on their commands,“ said Moubani from Sovabazar, who was treated at Fortis Hospital, Anandapur.
 
 According to doctors, the patients remaining alert through the procedure and their responses help them zero in on the exact spot. It lowers the risk of damaging functional areas of the brain that control movement, speech and vision. “It's similar to a conventional craniotomy , except that a patient stays awake. It is a preferred technique while removing lesions near the brain's functionally important areas that controls limb movement, speech and vision,“ said Dr Amitabha Chanda, who has performed 14 awake brain surgeries since 2012.
 
 To ensure the patient's bodily functions were intact, neurosurgeons ask patient to move their legs, count, sing or identify objects during the surgery . If surgeons found any incoherence in their response, they would know which brain area to avoid.
 
 The patient is put to sleep briefly when the skin, muscle and bone are cut open and awakened once the brain is exposed. “The brain itself is insensitive to pain and so, we can carry out the surgery while the patient is awake. The aim is to minimize risks,“ said Dr Chanda.
 
 Patients are also counselled before such a procedure. “The outcome is extremely satisfactory,“ said Shantanu Ghosh, whose father-in-law Shyamsundar Kundu (66), was operated upon by Dr Chanda in April 2014 for a brain tumour. Three years since, Kundu, a former Bose Institute employee, has been leading a normal life, visiting banks and the local market daily, without any assistance.
 
