What is the thing you fear most in this world? Is it facing the fury of the storm all by yourself on a night dark, the dizzying heights or the dread of not living up to expectations even if they are your own? My greatest fear is of failure, and of not being able to accomplish the goals I set out for myself, even though, I know I gave my best. The path to following your passions is never an easy one. For if it was easy, wouldn’t everyone get what they wanted in the first shot and the world would be a much happier place. 

 The worst part is that most of the times, the very people you expect to standby you, will turn out to be fair-weather friends deserting you, or demoralizing you to such an extent that your self-confidence plunges to a new nadir. Their seemingly harmless, sugar-coated voices will lead you to question your ability to accomplish and go after what you rightly deserve. When you should be going all out to give your best, you suddenly find yourself battling with a whole new monster-self-doubt!
 
 I’d been having a rough year and despite my best efforts, was not able to make a success of what I wanted. The very people, whom I thought closest, only wanted to knife me in the back and ensure I didn’t succeed as I’d envisioned. Fed up to saturation point and at my wits end, I decided to quit even though I knew that if I persisted, I had a sure shot chance at realizing my dream and showing the world what I was made of. 
 
 Even though quitting was against my nature, with a heavy heart, I decided even before giving my last shot that I was not going to make it. I was unable to sleep for days, the weight of my decision draining my soul and plunging me into depression. I became a completely unrecognizable person, prone to bursting into tears- a far cry from my usual cheerful self. 
 
 Then one Sunday evening while strolling along the beach, I chanced upon a little girl near the water’s edge engrossed in building her sandcastle. Every time she’d build a bit, a gentle wave would come and wash it away. Yet she did not give up. Intrigued, I walked over and asked her whom she was with. She pointed to a happy couple a few feet away and ran to get more sand in her tiny bucket, the oncoming wave washing away her dream again. “It will never last sweetie,” I smiled when she got back. Her toothless grin melted my heart as she said, “Mama says I should always finish what I start. So I will try till it’s time to go home or be back next week”. 
 
 I stared at her for a few moments with tears in my eyes. If that little angel would not give up on her tiny dream, why had I given up on my most important one? It was time to try again! Giving her a kiss I walked back humming…
 
 To know that I shall find, 
 
 The meaning of what’s free at last!
 
 To know that I shall find,
 
 Brings a sense of bliss,
 
 To my weary soul, 
 
 Te-da-da-da-dum.
 
 Coz now I’m free,
 
 To pursue,
 
 The wants of my heart,
 
 Te-da-da-da-dum.
 
 So to know that I shall find… 
 
 My little angel had freed me from the shadows of doubt choking my passions. They finally disappeared with the ball of fire slowly descending into the sea.
 
 
 
 
