JODHPUR: The state government received a rap from the   on Monday for failing to file compliance report on its detailed directions given on January 12 to civic bodies about maintaining the sanctity of master plans of cities across Rajasthan.

 A division bench has now ordered that if the compliance report is not submitted by May 29, the state chief secretary, principal secretary (urban development & housing), commissioners of the   (JDA), Jodhpur (JDA), Ajmer (ADA) and commissioners of the municipal corporations of Kota, Udaipur and Bikaner will have to remain present in the court during next hearing of the case.
 
 On the petitioners’ plea, the court further directed that notifications or circulars, issued in violation of the master plans, shall be held in abeyance until the next hearing on May 29. 
 
 The Court took serious note of the information provided by amicus curie M S Singhvi pointing out that instead of complying with the directions of the court on master plan, the government and development authorities have issued circulars and notifications for modification of the   and regularizing unauthorised development/ possession in defiance of the directions issued by the court.
 
 He argued in the court, “Government has devised it own ways to violate the master plan. It is regularizing the encroachments, manipulating with the widths of the roads to promote illegal constructions and commercialization permissions etc.” 
 
 He also pointed to such works being done in the on-going Jan Kalyan Shivirs in the state, where pattas and regularization of unauthorized constructions and encroachments are being given.
 
 Condemning this, the court took an undertaking from the additional advocate general Rajesh Panwar assuring that nothing should be allowed in violation of the directions/order by the high court on master plan. Panwar initially sought time for filing the compliance report, but on the court’s rap, assured to present it on May 29.
 
 The division bench comprising Justice Sangeet Lodha and Justice Arun Bhansali said, “It is unfortunate that despite unequivocal directions issued by the court, the local and state authorities have not cared to file the compliance report.”
 
