NEW DELHI: Congress and   on Wednesday joined hands and fielded senior advocate   to argue before the   that right to privacy was a fundamental right though it could not be treated as an absolute right in the era of technological advancements.

 Appearing for Karnataka, Punjab,   and Puducherry governments, Sibal and advocate   suggested a four-fold test of state action before permitting governments to access personal data — the action must be sanctioned by law; it should be for a legitimate aim; interference in privacy must be proportionate to the need for interference; and, procedural guarantee against abuse of such interference.
 
 Without these safeguards, the state would tend to meddle with the privacy of citizens even if the court declared it a fundamental right, Sibal said, and requested the court to settle this long-pending issue arising because the Constitution expressly did not give fundamental right status to right to privacy.
 
 He said constitutions of many developed nations did not provide for right to privacy, but the same was protected through legislations and stringent data protection regimes. “Surprisingly, Article 14(1) of Pakistan’s constitution guarantees right to privacy, but on the ground, that is a joke. So my fervent request is when you (ninejudge bench headed by  ) give us the right to privacy, it should not be a joke,” Sibal said in a lighter vein.
 
 The four states argued that “right to privacy enjoins the state to put in place a robust data protection law, that obligates non-state actors to ensure that data shared by citizens is secure and that breach of any confidentiality would be visited with legal consequences”.
 
 Sibal said, “Right to privacy is an inalienable natural right which is based on the classic premise of individual’s wish to be let alone.” 
 
 “However, the contours of the right need to be understood with the changing times. Rapid advances in science and technology pose considerable challenges in delineating the exact contours of the right.”
 
