AHMEDABAD: The confusion over the fee structure following the introduction of The Gujarat Self-Financed Schools (Regulation of Fees) Act, 2017, is causing conflicts between schools and parents. Schools will reopen in June after the summer vacation, but no solution seems to be in sight.

 Over a week, there have been more than 10 instances of protest held by parents at various schools in Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar; the parents are demanding a clarification on the new fee structure. The number of protest events have been rising because most parents have no clue about the new fee structure. The Act has proposed a cap of Rs 15,000 for primary schools, Rs 25,000 for secondary schools, and Rs 27,000 for higher secondary schools per year. A consortium of private schools in the state, the Gujarat Self-Financed  , has upped the ante against the authorities. Pravin Kacchadia, the chairman of the association, said: “We will meet Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani on Tuesday to make a representation,” he said. “Our main demand is to make the government clarify the fee structure before June so that conflicts are avoided.”
 
  The state’s education minister,  , has asked school authorities and parents to keep calm. “There are over 15,000 self-financed schools in the state and the procedure of forming rules and regulations will take time,” Chudasama said. “Considering this, school-owners and parents should keep calm and should think beyond self-interest.”
 
 School owners feel that parents are becoming restive because they have no clue about the new fee structure. M P Chandran, a member of the  , said that conflicts between parents and school-owners might continue till June as most parents have assumed that Rs 15,000, Rs 25,000, and Rs 27,000 caps would be imposed. Manan Choksi, trustee of  , said that the confusion has led to conflicts. 
 
 Most parents optimistic, some skeptical
 
 Ahmedabad: Though some parents are in conflict with schools as the new fee structure has not be decided, many are hopeful that the new law will help rein in private schools that had been charging exorbitant fees. Geetesh Thakar, one such parent, said private schools had been increasing fees according to their will. “Now the new bill will regulate them and the schools will not be able to demand fees in lakhs of rupees,” Thakar said. However, Naresh Shah, president of Parents Association in the city, was slightly skeptical. “If parents have to pay huge fees to private schools now, who will ensure that they get back the the extra money charged, if the fees are decreased later?” Shah said.
 
