NEW DELHI: When a 179-strong military contingent of the   leads 5,136 Indian participants of the Republic Day parade at   on January 26, it would be another sign of the deepening of ties between the two nations. The soldiers from the Emirates will become the first military contingent from the Arab world to march at Rajpath and will have the honour to salute their own Crown Prince Mohammed Bin Zayed Al Nahayan, who is the R-Day chief guest, on foreign soil.Obaid R Al Zauhmi, brigadier of the UAE   who is leading the contingent, said, “We have been practising for the parade for three weeks and feel proud to lead the Indian contingents.“ The UAE had also proposed to display the skills of its paratroopers during the parade but India rejected the plan, citing security reasons.

 The UAE's will be the sec ond foreign contingent to participate in India's Republic Day parade after France's   marched down Rajpath last year. The 195-member UAE contingent comprises 144 marching personnel, 35-member band and 16-member support staff.
 
 Major General Rajesh Sahai, the second-in-command of the parade, said, “The participation of UAE is a matter of great pride. It will help per sonnel from both sides interact and educate themselves.“
 
 He said the elite anti-terror force National Security Guards (NSG) is making its debut at the parade when a team of 140 commandos, dressed in their trademark black uniform, will display their skills. `Sherpa', an antihijacking armoured vehicle of the NSG that can withstand powerful explosions, will be the centre of attraction. Other R-Day debuts will be that of the indigenous   light combat aircraft and Dhanush, the `desi' Bofors guns. Manufactured by Jabalpur-based Gun Carriage Factory , the 155-mm howitzer is superior to Swedish Bofors, which had played a key role in the Kargil war victory, as the former's 38-km range is longer than Bofors' 27-km.
 
 The Army's elite para troopers will not be seen at Rajpath this time. “There is no particular reason. Who will march, who will not, is decided almost a year before,“ Maj Gen Sahai said. At a time when China and Pakistan have protested India testing the long-range nuclear-capable Agni, it will be conspicuous by its absence from the parade. But Maj Gen Sahai scotched speculations saying, “The participation of contingents and missiles are done on a rotational basis.Please don't read any design.As we have to adjust all participants in 90 minutes, everything is planned much in advance.“
 
 
 
