KANPUR: In early 2000s, when the 50-over format was flourishing, Test cricket's future ate up most of the mind space of the authorities around the world. Now in 2017, with T20 enthralling the fans, the thoughts have been directed towards sustaining the 50-over version.

 England skipper  , leading a team which has marked a shift in paradigm at home, reckons that the two shorter formats of the game will not be different in nature in the future as T20s have already started influencing the way ODIs are played.“The rules change in ODIs,“ was the only difference Morgan could point out. “They are still different but you can compare them in short spurts and not directly .“
 
 Morgan talks about the `middle-overs' in ODIs, the most debated part of the format. “Things have changed even with the extra man back in the middle period when you used to run the ball around for 5-6 runs per over. The same risk and skill level in both forms is very evident,“ the experienced, swashbuckling middle-order batsman said.
 
 It is so easy to brand T20 cricket and its effects with the kind of batsmanship on offer but Morgan quickly points out how bowling has also changed. “For bowlers too, honing specific skills to T20 cricket is important. We don't know where the 50-over game is going. The middle overs you might have to resort to bowling yorkers and protecting the boundaries,“ he observed.
 
 Morgan, however, put to rest the apprehensions about breeding just T20 specialists.“I think we are beyond that.50-over cricket and 20-over cricket are similar and are growing more alike. It will happen naturally but there will remain a difference between a Test player and a white-ball player.“
 
 On his team's preparations for the T20 series, he said: “I think confidence is the big word in T20 cricket, confidence and momentum. At the moment the guys are feeling lot more confident than they were after Game 2. They were doing a lot of hard work and did not get much reward. Having had a win under our belt, we are looking forward to the three-match T20 series.“
 
 Meanwhile, Morgan said that Joe Root was fit and available for selection but pacer David Willey has been ruled out for Thursday's match.
 
 
