SHIMLA:  , since long, has been demanding to route the annual   through   in  , but so far, the Centre has not responded to this request. The state tourism department has recently written a letter again to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the issue. If pilgrimage is allowed through Kinnaur, it would not only cut short the duration by 14 days, but would also boost tourism activity in the tribal district.

 Sources said that in the letter, the tourism department has mentioned that routing the annual pilgrimage through Kinnaur would reduce the distance to Mansarovar Lake, cutting short the duration by 14 days. Himachal Pradesh chief secretary VC Pharka said from time to time, the issue of routing Kailash Mansarovar pilgrimage through Kinnaur district was taken up with the Government of India, but till date, the state’s request had not been accepted. He said opening Shipkila Pass for pilgrimage would boost tourism activity, and provide pilgrims a safer route.
 
 For the past many years, Himachal Pradesh is trying to open Shipkila Pass for the Kailash Mansarovar pilgrimage. Leader of opposition and former chief minister Prem Kumar Dhumal in July 2014 had written a letter to the prime minister, demanding to open the Kinnaur route to Mansarovar Lake at the earliest. In another letter to the prime minister, chief minister Virbhadra Singh had stated in September 2014 that the issue of opening the Kinnaur route for the annual pilgrimage was being taken up by the state since 2006.
 
 A tour and travel operator from Reckong Peo in Kinnaur, Shanta Kumar Negi, said that the alternate route through Shipkila Pass is shorter and safer. He said from Pooh, it would take 2-3 hours to reach Shipkila border, and beyond that, China had already constructed better roads inside its territory. He said that from Delhi, reaching Reckong Peo would take two days time, and on the third day, pilgrims could reach the Shipkila border pass. He said there is a well-maintained motorable road of roughly 30km between Namgia and Shipkila, the last point on the Indian side. He said from Shipkila international border in Kinnaur, Mansarovar Lake is located at a distance of just 91km.
 
 A detailed study conducted by the state government in the past had found that an alternate route through this area is possible, and it would reduce the journey time by almost half. Not only would this benefit pilgrims, but also become much easier for the Ministry of External Affairs to organize the logistics for the yatra.
 
