MUMBAI: A Dubai-based film producer and casting director who travelled by a   flight early Sunday morning has accused the airline staff of rude behaviour and not allowing her to board the flight as soon as boarding gates opened despite her plea that she had a severe back problem.

 Dhanalakshmi Ranganathan, who is known in entertainment and media circles as  , filed a written complaint against Jet staffer Raunak Jayaraj who was at the departure gates at T2 at Mumbai airport when she was boarding   flight 9W 291 to Chennai scheduled at 5.33 am.
 
 "I flew in from Delhi last night, had a brief meeting in Mumbai and then I headed back to the airport to catch my flight to Chennai. I had a back issue and been undergoing physiotherapy. I was also on medical leave two weeks ago due to this problem. I was feeling sick, tired and exhausted, and when the boarding was announced, I requested the crew to allow me to board as I was not feeling well. Raunaq was extremely rude and refused in an insulting manner," says Ranganathan, who works as a marketing consultant for IBM Dubai, and is a coproducer and casting director for an under production film titled Solar Eclipse: The Depth of Darkness based on Mahatma Gandhi assassination. The film, now rechristened as The Gandhi Conspiracy, is directed by Algerian director Karim Traidia and stars Om Puri, Rajit Kapur, Avatar Gill along with Luke Pasqualino, Stephen Lang and others.
 
 She says she asked the airline staffers to call the duty manager for lodging a formal complaint. "They didn't even have a pen and paper to write the complaint. They gave me one after a lot of arguments, and manager Reena Dsouza finally counter-signed the complaint.She said Raunaq won't countersign the complaint, and said I could go and lodge an online complaint. I lost my patience and I told Raunaq that he was an idiot. He accused me of getting personal, snatched my boarding pass and said I won't be allowed to board the aircraft. Reena then handed it back to me," alleges Ranganathan, who claims she was not allowed to shoot any pictures.
 
 "When the boarding began, I was last in the queue, and ahead of me was cricketer  . Airline crew were happily clicking selfies with him at the aircraft gate while sick people like me were treated like shit. I know he is a popular cricketer, but the flight was getting late, and celebrities shouldn't be spreading this selfie culture at public places. It can inconvenience a lot of others," she told Mumbai Mirror.
 
 Disappointed at the rude b e hav iou r, R a nga nat ha n tagged Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Foreign Minister  , and Smriti Irani complaining about her experience. She also tagged Jet Airways. The airline customer service apologised to her for the unpleasant experience, and promised to probe the incident within 24 hours.
 
 "I told them that mere apologies won't help, and they need to take some disciplinary action. I am the kind of person who will not be afraid to speak my mind for what is wrong whether it be a rude auto driver or airline staff. Perhaps after the recent No Fly List for unruly passengers, the airline staff feels more emboldened to behave rudely with passengers," Rangnathan said.
 
 The Ministry of Civil Aviation recently put in place a mechanism to deal with unruly passengers which can lead to airlines banning passengers from three months to two years.
 
 
 
 Flyers can be banned by airlines for three months: for unruly behaviour (physical gestures, verbal harassment, unruly inebriation etc.) z Flyers can be banned by airlines for six months: for physically abusive behaviour (pushing, kicking, hitting, grabbing or inappropriate touching or sexual harassment etc.) z Flyers can be banned by airlines for up to two years: for life-threatening behaviour (damage to aircraft operating systems, physical violence such as choking, eye gouging, murderous assault)
 
