 has had cops drop by twice in less than 20 days, asking him to keep the decibel levels down. In 2009, it was reported about an irate   neighbor of   raising hell over loud music during a mata ki chowki that had spilled a little over midnight. 

  
  
 The actor had his first run-in with the law after his release from Yerwada jail last February in the 1993 Bombay blast case, when a house party that had cranked up the decibel levels and moved to the terrace, irked the neighbors again.
 
 Now, in the New Year, the 57-year-old actor has set a record of sort by having cops drop by his place twice in less than 20 days, asking him to keep the volume down. "The first incident happened on January 14, the second on Thursday. Around 11.30 pm, they (Dutts) started playing music on their terrace. It was so loud that we couldn't even sleep. When we called the control room, a lady took down the complaint but then nothing happened. I called again at 1.30 am and was told by the same lady that she had sent the details to Khar police station. I waited for 15 minutes and then called up the police station directly. They promised to help us and that's when the music was stopped," informs Dr  , chairman of the Pali Hill Residents Association.
 
  He goes on to add that it was clear that the actor has no regard for his neighbors, especially senior citizens. "We had sent him a warning letter the last time but he has not changed. We will not tolerate this kind of behavior in Pali Hill.The issue will be raised at the next AGM meeting and we have also asked the zonal DCP to take strict action against Sanjay Dutt," Dr Shukla fumes.
 
 The residents contend that the party was on Dutt's terrace and Sufi music was blaring till 2 am. Senior Inspector   of Khar police station said," As soon as we got a call, our team rushed to the spot and made sure that the music was turned down. We are looking at what needs to be done further." We got in touch with Sanjay's spokesperson but the actor remained unavailable for comment.
 
  
  
 
 
