JAIPUR: Fearing life threat from locals, political and religious activists, the Jaipur’s   on Monday have demanded protection from the state government. 

 The shopkeepers claimed that since   (JMC) collects revenue from these shops, it is their duty to provide protection. 
 
  member Nizamuddin Qureshi said that in the past, the meat sellers have witnessed several attacks from locals and other groups while transporting raw meat from slaughter house (which is nearly 25 km away) to their shops. “ Our vehicles have been vandalised several times in the past by the locals. The attacks are increasing day by day. We have demanded to open the check post at Shaipura. Also protection should be given to meat sellers in sensitive areas where they are facing continuous protest,” said Qureshi. 
 
 The meat sellers accused the local authorities of targeting their businesses by not renewing the licences. The merchants claimed they are struggling for livelihood as they are failed to operate their shops in legal manner. 
 
 City mayor Ashok Lahoti said, “ The process to issue the licences will be started soon. It will be issued as per the rules set by the officials. A review meeting has been called for the same.”
 
 Association also demanded to removal of two provisions fixed by JMC while issuing the licence. The JMC in its renewal form has mentioned that licenses will not be issued to person having a criminal background . Also, slaughtering of birds will not be allowed outside the shops. “ Sometimes false case are registered against the meat sellers. Also, it will not be feasible to go to slaughterhouse for slaughtering birds. There will be no facility for slaughtering the birds,” added Qureshi.
 
 JMC administration in April assured to renew licences within 15 days. However , nothing has been done in this regard so far. “At the fifth general body meeting (GBM), JMC had approved the proposal to increase the licence fee from Rs 10 to Rs 1,000. The proposal has received for the approval from the directorate of local bodies (DLB) for final approval and process will start soon,” said a JMC official 
 
 In the last meeting with city mayor , Ashok Lahoti , the association was given assurance on providing develop basic facilities such as light, water electricity and roads at the slaughterhouse in Chainpura near Ramgargh. Even after two months JMC has failed to keep its promises. The association demand to increase the timing of slaughter house as its open for three hours between 5-8 am. 
 
 “There is only one slaughterhouse in the city near Ramgarh, which is nearly 30- km away. It is not fully equipped and the JMC has not even provided proper water facility at the abattoir. Our animals have died due to snake bites. The mayor had promised to improve the condition. Tenders for the same was proposed to be issued in one week’s time. However, nothing has been done,” added another member.
 
