Panaji: Some tribals in Cotigao implement a handful of techniques to protect their crops from wild animals, while some others follow unique traditions to help them maintain a healthy lifestyle. These gems of information, however, could be lost forever if not documented in a timely manner.

 The formation of biodiversity management committees (BMCs) at village-level spells hope for recording the wisdom, expertise and knowledge passed down through the ages, while also spurring an inventory of flora and fauna, and heritage and historical sites for the benefit of future generations. 
 
 “Of Goa’s 190 panchayats, 111 have constituted their village (BMCs) after frequent reminders since 2014. Approximately 20 BMCs have submitted their preliminary drafts of the people’s biodiversity register (PBR), which is a record of bio-wealth and traditional knowledge associated with biodiversity,” said Pradip Sarmokadam, member secretary of the Goa State Biodiversity Board (GSBB).
 
 This is a preliminary yet significant step to protect every village’s bio-wealth before rapid development destroys natural resources. The threat to bio-resources and products made from thembarring 588 daily-use commoditiesbeing exploited for commercial purposes also looms large. 
 
 While the Biological Diversity Act was enacted by the Indian Parliament in 2002, rules for Goa were notified only this year. And despite the GSBB being formed in 2004, progress has been slow. Not a single BMC for protection of the state’s unique ecosystems and endangered and critically threatened species was formed till 2014, largely due to administrative apathy and lack of cooperation from panchayats. The GSBB prodded the panchayat bodies into action only during last few years. 
 
 Village BMCs compiling PBRs have multiple benefits for the environment, society and communities. “The committees document different medicinal plants, practitioners, fish species, organic agriculture, and people involved in various occupations with knowledge of unique traditions and culture,” Joseph Vaz, a BMC member of Rachol panchayat, said.
 
 The documentation will also prove to be a boon for authorities seeking geographical indication status (GIS) for various natural assets. This, in turn, can ensure conservation of biodiversity through sustainable utilisation and ensure equitable sharing of benefits among local people.
 
 “The board has proposed GI status for khatkhatem, a recipe unique to Goa, and maddachi (coconut) feni. A few others herbs, rice varieties like korgut, pulses like alsande (cow peas) among others, could also find place in the assets sought to be accorded GI status,” Sarmokadam said.
 
 The state-wide exercise is also an assessment of threats from human impact or interference to heavily exploited resources. “BMCs will help us to know if we have plants or other species that are vulnerable or on the verge of extinction and what we need to do to nullify the threats,” Antonio Mascarenhas, a GSBB member, said. 
 
 Mascarenhas pointed out that if one were to take a section from atop the Western Ghats to the coast, the most vulnerable appears to be the coastline. “Other natural assets such as forests and water bodies can be restored, but beach dune systems, which are the most vulnerable of all ecosystems, are difficult to restore. Yet, they are being destroyed on a daily basis,” he said.
 
 The GSBB is compiling a book on tradeable and potentially tradeable bio-resources of Goathe first of its kind to assist various stakeholders. It is also documenting the sacred groves and traditional healers of Goa, besides preparing a book on Panaji’s biodiversity.
 
 
