At the malls on MG Road in Gurgaon, the extra-vigilant security staff now checks for guns and pistols while frisking visitors and are free to deny entry to suspicious-looking groups, if they so deem fit. This extra cautiousness is a result of the   advisory that was sent to restaurants, bars and malls in the area about 10 days back. The managements of these places have been told to keep an eye on their guests and deny entry to large groups that look suspicious. 

 
  
  
 
  
 When we spoke to the security guards at these malls, they told us they have to be extra observant now. While at most of the malls, daily briefing is a must, for some, an additional briefing on the weekends has become an integral part of mall security. 
 
  A guard outside a restaurant in MGF Metropolitan Mall tells us, "On weekdays, we usually have corporate employees who come straight from work. But on weekends, it is a mixed crowd. That’s why such incidents are higher on the weekends, and so we are extra careful."
 
  In June, DCP (East) Deepak Saharan had called a meeting at his office and asked the managements to ensure that their CCTV cameras are functional and visitor records are maintained. 
 
  
  The guards at these malls have been asked to stay extra cautious about ‘suspicious’ groups to avoid brawls that have been taking place on a frequent basis now (Picture for representational purposes only)
 
  
 A guard at the MGF Mega City Mall tells us, "Weekdays can be slow but weekends are always busy, even till late at night. For the last 2-3 months, there has been some or the other incident on MG Road almost every weekend, so we are always thinking, 'Pata nahin next week kya hoga.' On Sundays, most places start emptying up post 10pm because everyone has to prepare for work the next day. But this crowd, which usually creates trouble, is never in a hurry. Their basic profile is always the same. That helps us understand what to watch out for."
 
  
 The security personnel tell us that they do not keep an eye on just the men, brawls break out among women, too. A guard at   says, "Last month, a brawl broke out between two groups of women. There have been several incidents when groups of women were detained after starting a fight. You can never predict what’s going to take place next in the MG road area. Ladkiyon ki ladai dekhne ke liye toh log ruk jate hain. It holds up traffic for hours."
 
 
  
  
 
  
 A bouncer at a restaurant at the Metropolitan Mall says, "We always have a full house on weekends. The late night Happy Hours sometimes attract a difficult crowd, so we make sure that we don’t let in people who might affect our image." But not all restaurants are able to exercise such a strict right to admission. Says a bouncer at another restaurant in the same mall, "Most of the restaurants have a very strict policy and keep a check on the people entering, but we can't stop them."
 
 
  
  (Picture for representational purposes only)
 
  The guards at the malls say that they can't always control the crowd that comes in, and when they prevent people from entering, it leads to fights outside the mall. A guard at MGF Mega City says, "Those who start brawls will do so at any point. They fight with the police on the roads too, so it's not just entering the mall which is an issue. However, after the advisory, we now stop people with a little more authority. Pehle log bahas karte thay toh hum jaane dete thay, ab toh naukri ka sawal hai."
 
 
  
  
 
 
