Even as chief minister   met Prime Minister   in New Delhi to discuss “just development and not politics“, BJP workers upped the ante back home, fighting a pitched battle with police on the streets for close to three hours and paralyzing the heart of the city for the entire afternoon.

 A bitter critic of the Modi government, Banerjee shed her usual aggression in the national capital on Thursday , but didn't take the BJP Bengal unit's offensive lightly . Hitting out at the “hooliganism“ on the city's roads, the CM claimed BJP and CPM were in a competition to outdo each other. “CPM and BJP are engaged in a fierce competition over who will occupy the No. 2 spot in Bengal politics. They have no real issues. They are destroying public property , burning state vehicles,“ she said.
 
 In Kolkata, state BJP leader Rahul Sinha was quick to come up with a reply. “The   is scared of the saffron surge in Bengal. The CM has only given vent to this fear. We are not fighting for the No. 2 position in Bengal, we are aiming for the No. 1position,“ Sinha said. : In what could spell fresh trouble for the proposed Teesta water sharing pact between India and Bangladesh, West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee on Thursday pointed out to Prime Minister Narendra Modi the problems the state faces for sharing river waters with the neighbouring country .
 
 Mamata's meeting with the PM was to discuss fund allocation and other issues faced by the state. During the meeting, she submitted a three-page memorandum which focused on problems that Bengal is facing because of Bangladesh. The CM urged Modi to take up the issues with Dhaka.
 
 Mamata's concerns over Bangladesh is a clear pointer that the CM is unlikely to agree to the pending Teesta treaty easily . She had made her displeasure clear to Modi and visiting Bangladesh PM Sheikh Hasina recently , saying that the Teesta pact in its present form was not acceptable to Bengal.
 
 Mamata is learnt to have told the PM that “Bengal's experience about sharing Ganga water with Bangladesh is not good, as water shortage at the Farakka barrage causes the NTPC-run thermal power plant to shut down occasionally and the two ports in the state are impacted adversely due to heavy silting and lack of flow of water“. She complained about reduction on flow of water from rivers like Atrayee, Tangon and Punarbhaga that flow into Bengal from Bangladesh because of bar rages and dams that have been built by the other side and also about severe pollution from Bangladesh flowing into Bengal's Churni river in Nadia district.
 
 Banerjee has also asked the PM to take up with Dhaka the issue of Malda mangoes on which Bangladesh has doubled the import duty . “They have stopped sending Hilsa and now they are imposing heavy import duty on mangoes,“ she said. Bangladesh traditionally consumes around 70% of mangoes produced in Malda district.
 
 While there was speculation about Mamata could bring up the issue of a consensus candidate for the up coming Presidential election, the Trinamool chief told reporters that it was a good decision by the then Vajpayee government to make APJ Abdul Kalam a consensus candidate, but she didn't find it fit to take up the issue with the government now. “It is for the Prime Minister to decide,“ she said while replying to questions.
 
 Asked about violence against workers of opposition parties in Bengal, the CM said, “There is no violence in Bengal, it is only political and it is propagated by CPM-led Left parties and now also by BJP as the two are vying for the second and third positions in the state.“
 
