THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The   government’s main achievement in the last one year was that it could develop a  , chief minister   claimed here on Saturday.

 In probably the lengthiest news conference addressed by him, in connection with the first anniversary of the LDF government, the chief minister stressed on the social welfare measures initiated by the   without any fresh project or policy announcements.
 
 He said that though the UDF had ruled the state in the past, the previous UDF government’s rule was marked by misuse of power and corruption. The LDF government’s main task was to expose such unhealthy tendencies that happened then and cleansing the political culture. While showcasing the LDF government’s achievements, the chief minister mainly stressed on the welfare measures and social justice measures initiated for the labourers and working class. 
 
 Briefly going to the infrastructure projects, he said those projects which people were pessimistic about during the tenure of the UDF are on track now. He cited the examples of national highways, GAIL pipeline and the power transmission line from Koodankulam, and said that those who opposed these projects have now stopped their opposition as people have started believing that these will actually materialised here. “The government is not of the idea to turn a blind eye towards their losses. They will be compensated for their losses but will not relent to such opposition in the road to development,” he said.
 
 Vijayan said that the state was lagging much behind in infrastructure development, and this scenario is changing now. Kochi Metro, Kannur airport and Vizhinjam project are moving in a time-bound manner, nearing completion, said the chief minister.
 
 He said that the government was going ahead with strong actions against corruption. In an indirect quip to former chief minister Oommen Chandy, Vijayan said that the phrase ‘law will take its own course’ would be put to practise. With regards to the cases that were earlier registered, the chief minister said that the government neither will compromise on those cases nor will give any direction on the basis of political consideration to the investigating agencies. 
 
 He said that the delay in announcing government’s excise policy is not deliberate, but it happened unexpectedly. He said that some technical difficulties because of the election had delayed the policy for further three months. The policy will be announced soon, he said.
 
 However, he confessed that no major private investors have assured investment in the state in the last one year. But the government is holding talks with some of the major investors in sectors like information technology, he said.
 
