BENGALURU/BAGALKOT: The BJP leadership has summoned BS Yeddyurappa and KS Eshwarappa to a meeting in New Delhi on Friday to broker peace between the warring Karnataka strongmen.

 Yeddyurappa, BJP state president, and Eshwrappa, leader of the opposition in the  , have locked horns over the latter's move to conduct a convention of the   in Bagalkot on Thursday . The brigade seeks to consolidate the deprived sections of society on one platform.
 
 Sources said BJP national president Amit Shah has decided to rope in the RSS to sort out differences between the two leaders.
 
 BJP Karnataka in-charge P Muralidhar Rao and BJP national general secretary (organization) Ramlal will al so attend the meeting.
 
 The rift between the friends-turned-foes was on display at the BJP's state executive meeting that was held in Kalaburagi last week, where followers of the two leaders were seen indulging in a sparring contest. Defying Yeddyurappa's diktat, Esh warappa is attending the convention of the Rayanna Brigade at Kudala Sangama in Bagalkot on the morrow.
 
 Eshwarappa told TOI that Amit Shah had asked him to come to New Delhi on Friday .“A rejig of the office-bearers in the state party unit, and recognition for the Rayanna Briagde will be my only demands before the central leadership,“ he said.
 
 Yeddyurappa's supporters have launched a signature campaign against Eshwarappa seeking his removal from the post of the leader of opposition in the council, for defying the party's orders and choosing to attend the Rayanna Brigade convention. Of the 17 BJP MPs from the state, 10 of them are reported to have signed the petition. This includes Suresh Angadi, PC Mohan, G M Siddeshwara, Pratap Simha, B Sriramulu and A Karadi Sanganna.
 
 On the other hand, three Union ministers from the state -DV Sadananda Gowda, Ramesh C Jigajinagi and Ananth Kumar -are reported to have adopted a neutral stance. Former legislators and seers of more than 20 peethas of backward castes and communities will attend the Rayanna Brigade convention on Thursday. The pontiffs who will be in attendance include Kaginele Peetadhipathi Niranjananand Puri, Jaya Mrutyunjaya swami of   peetha, Madar Chennaiah Swami, Valmiki Prasannanand swami, Immadi siddharam swami.
 
 Brigade president   told TOI: “Eshwarappa has arrived in Bagalkot, and he will participate in the convention. As far as taking disciplinary action is concerned, that's left to the party leaders. We have nothing to do with the party.“
 
 Pandal, podium ready
 
 Elaborating on the arrangements made for the convention, Veerupakshappa added, “We have put up an 800x500m pandal with 1.25 lakh chairs. Also, a huge podium has been set up to accommodate 150 people. We are expecting nearly three lakh people at the convention.“
 
 Convention at a   in Bagalkot district is an important pilgrimage centre in north Karnataka. People of all faiths and religions visit the place. It is also the confluence of the Krishna and Malaprabha rivers.
 
