LUCKNOW: Anti-encroachment drive to   from Aliganj has ended up causing more trouble to residents of the area. A massive slum was removed from a vacant plot in Sector B, Aliganj, near Ram Ram Chauraha last month but within a couple of days the slum-dwellers occupied the wide divider in the middle of the road.

 The displaced slum-dwellers put their belongings on the roadside and started living there. They defecate in the open area outside houses in the colony and are using electricity illegally, leading to power crisis in the area.
 
 “They are setting up their shanties on the divider and some of them have are even vending stuff from there, polluting the surroundings and most of the time rickshaw trolleys ferrying their stuff are parked on the roads, causing jams,” said Srishti Kapoor, a resident of the area.
 
 More than 500 meters stretch on the divider is encroached in front of the row houses, putting the residents to discomfort. “They relieve themselves in front of our houses and we can’t do anything about it except suffer the stench and nuisance to the extent that even going out for morning and evening walks has become impossible,” said  , a bank employee and resident of the area.
 
 Locals are facing power crisis too as the slum-dwellers steal electricity from poles. “We have to suffer because of fluctuation and frequent load shedding, while these power thieves are not just using power for lighting but even to run heavy appliances like television and music system with speakers, creating further nuisance,” lamented Richa Kulkarni.
 
 Several residents of the area complained to the   but got no help. “If the authorities removed the slums from one place they should have relocated them too, instead of leaving them to their means,” said Avneesh Kumar.
 
 When contacted, additional municipal commissioner   said, “Once we remove the encroachments, it is the responsibility of local police to make sure they don’t come back but we will carry out another anti-encroachment drive to remove those  
 
