SURAT: Deputy chief minister Nitin Patel has asked the agitating textile traders to call off their indefinite strike as the state government is ready to represent their demands to the GST council and the central government. 

 The state government had invited the leaders of the Textile GST Sangharsh Samiti (TGSS) for parley at Gandhinagar on Tuesday. The TGSS leaders represented to the government that the textile traders do not want GST on MMF fabric. They put forth the demand of removing GST from fabric and increasing the GST rate on yarn from 18 per cent to 28 per cent or postpone the implementation of GST on textile sector till April 1, 2019. 
 
 It was the failed efforts of Navsari MP C R Paatil, which resulted in further igniting the anger of the textile traders community. Then came   minister of state for road transport and highways, Mansukh Mandaviya, an emissary sent by the central government last week, who too remained unsuccessful to stop the agitating traders from taking out the mammoth rally. 
 
 Now, the baton is passed to the   government to appease the textile traders to end the indefinite strike and begin talks with the government. 
 
 Talking to  , convener of TGSS, Tarachand   said, “We had a fruitful meeting with the Dy CM for around three hours. He has assured that the GST council member from Gujarat and his government will strongly represent the demand of textile traders to the central government, but we have to call off the indefinite strike.”
 
 Kasat added, “The government is very much concerned about the labour force in the industry rendered jobless due to the indefinite strike for over a week. The GST council is meeting on August 3 but we urged the government to see that the council meets before July 20 to resolve the GST issues.”
 
 Back home, the TGSS is facing an uphill task of conciliating the agitating traders’ community, who are on an idefinite strike for last eight days.
 
 On Monday, the textile traders organised a kavi sammelan at   as part of their protest against the central government. Poetries targeting the central government and its ministers were recited by the poets who are invited by the textile traders. 
 
 Hitesh Sanklecha, a textile trader who is on indefinite strike for last 10 days, said, “The indefinite strike will continue till our demands are met. Meanwhile, we are organizing a public meeting on Tuesday to get the vibes of the traders and expose the leaders who have sat in the laps of the government.”
 
 
