NAGPUR: Mother of gym trainer James, who committed suicide after being thrashed by a constable and his former girlfriend on April 25, has filed a writ petition in the high court, demanding that the investigation should be shifted from Jaripatka police station, claiming that the accused cop was being shielded.

 Elizabeth Jarwar through her counsel Raspal Singh Renu claimed in the petition that she has been living under constant fear as the accused in the case has not been arrested three months after the suicide of James, her only son. Elizabeth has been receiving threats from some persons following which she approached Jaripatka police station, but no action was taken.
 
 James was found hanging from the ceiling of his bathroom at his rented house at Martin Nagar in north Nagpur. His mother was dependent on him after her husband’s demise some nine months ago. James appeared to have taken the extreme step as he was repeatedly thrashed with helmet by constable Ajay Madavi, posted at motor transport section, at the behest of his female colleague Bridgette James on April 24 and at the workplace of the victim the following day. 
 
 The petitioner claimed that Jaripatka police station, where Madavi’s father is posted, merely completed the formality of registering an offence of abetment to suicide against Ajay, Bridgette and her mother Jyoti. Since then, the matter is gathering dust. Though James’s mobile phone was stolen from his place on the day of his suicide, police made no efforts to recover it from the accused, sources said. 
 
 According to the statement of an eyewitness, Jyoti was seen leaving James’s house as his distraught mother was weeping beside the son’s body. It was alleged that the police made no efforts to recover the mobile phone which could provide crucial evidence of James’s friendship with Bridgette, who were neighbours. Though police slapped the charges of destruction of evidence, no attempt seems to have been made to restrain them from tampering with the case. 
 
 Sources claimed that Jaripatka police allowed adequate time to Madavi, Bridgette and Jyoti to approach the sessions court for interim relief. Police have opposed the bail petition. It was also alleged that senior police officials were turning a blind eye to the case.
 
 
