 ( ): Dibholi Bridge on the Yamuna in Etawah’s Chakarnagar is a lifeline for those crossing the Uttar Pradesh-Madhya Pradesh border. But it has a dark history. Till a decade ago, when this was still a pontoon bridge,   brought hostages — pakads in local lingo — to this bridge and swapped them for ransom. “In Bollywood style, the pakad, freed at one end of the bridge, gingerly walked towards the centre. Simultaneously, the ransom-bearer moved in from the other end. They met in the middle and the exchange took place,” recalls Tribhuwan Chauhan, a former block pramukh from Bharthana constituency, a seat once held by Mulayam Singh Yadav.

 It is past sundown. The Chakarnagar-Bhind Road is still alive. So is the Udi Road that takes one to Etawah, 30km away. “When dacoits roamed these parts, this road would be deserted, even in the mornings,” he says.
 
 That was till 2005 , whe n Nirbhay Gujjar, the last of the big brigands, was killed in a police encounter. Chakarnagar was his base.
 
 Before Nirbhay, the other dreaded dacoits who operated in these badlands included Sultana, Man Singh, Malkhan Singh and Phoolan Devi. “They had a free run of the vast stretch cutting through Etawah, Jalaun and Agra in UP, Bhind, Morena and Gwalior in MP,” says Pratap Tomar, a teacher. The ravines lining the banks of the Chambal were ‘baaghi’ terrain. Today, the big town here, Etawah (home to the SP first family) is discussing the MSY family feud. The conversation at Chakarnagar is about the SP-Congress coalition. Free from the dacoits’ poll firmans for a decade, they relish the freedom to vote whoever they want to.
 
 “The baaghis took equal interest in both panchayat and assembly elections. They conveyed their diktats, which nobody dared defy, to support a party or candidate through messengers,” says Chauhan, known as Chambal’s mountain man for flattening mounds in the ravines to set up a girls’ college.
 
 Malkhan surrendered in 1982. After his release from prison in the early 90s, he settled in Gwalior — where the government gave him land. He took part in village elections and was initially a Congress supporter. In 2014, swayed by the Modi wave, he canvassed for the BJP in Gwalior and Bhind, his native town. This time he’s officially with Ajit Singh’s RLD. Although he doesn’t plan to contest, Malkhan, 74, sporting his trademark handlebar moustache, is set to campaign for the RLD.
 
 Seema Parihar, first of Nirbhay Gujjar’s many wives, contested several elections for smaller parties and joined the SP two years ago. Now, a biopic and a Big Boss stint later, she is an EC emissary, travelling from village to village to spread awareness on voting. Seema Yadav of the Chandan Singh gang is contesting from  .
 
 Fifteen years after she was gunned down in front of her MP’s bungalow in Lutyens Delhi, Phoolan’s footprints are all over. Her village in Jalaun is 60km from here and Behmai, in Kanpur Dehat, where she massacred 22 Thakurs, is 90km away. The temple in neighbouring Dilippur she frequented, where she tied the red bandana on her forehead, is easily spotted from any Dibholi rooftop. “Impressed by Phoolan’s political fortunes, Nirbhay too was ready to surrender if he was rehabilitated politically,” says Rajiv Chauhan, a Chambal expert. But that wasn’t to be. He had wanted a chopper ride on his way to lay down arms. He wanted a spectacle. Police bullets ended his run on November 8, 2005, and the ‘beehad (wilderness)’ became quieter.
 
 Since then, the desolate ravines have given way to paddy fields and motorable roads. Former gang members have turned to farming or have moved to towns to make a living. Larger-than-life ‘Chambal dakus’ have graduated to the local folklore.
 
 
