CHENNAI: The intervention of the Indian embassy in   has helped the family of a man from Namakkal, who has been in a coma for more than two years, gain compensation.  , 37, was flown to the city on Tuesday from Abu Dhabi where he had met with a road accident in June 2015.

 The Indian embassy persuaded Udaiyar’s employer to file a case against an  , which was trying to wriggle out from paying compensation. The court subsequently issued a judgment ordering compensation for his family.
 
 Sister Josephine Valarmathi of the national domestic workers movement, who approached the central government to take up the issue, said, “In many such cases in the Gulf, victims return home empty-handed, but the court in Abu Dhabi sympathetically considered his case and pulled up the insurance company.” 
 
 Udaiyar’s wife C Parameswari said, “We have admitted him to a private hospital in Salem on Tuesday afternoon. She said Udaiyar’s company bore the cost for his treatment in hospital, adding, “The company gave him leave and sent the salary to me every month.”
 
 Urging the state goverment for assistance, Parameswari said, “He was the sole breadwinner of the family. We have a four-year-old daughter. The future looks bleak for us and we don’t know how to cope with the situation.”
 
 Sister Valarmathi said Udaiyar, an electrical assistant, was traveling for work in a vehicle driven by a relative of his Egyptian sponsor when they met with an accident. “Right from the moment of the accident, he has been in a coma.The insurance company tried to avoid taking any responsibility even though Udaiyar was on official duty. We thank the Indian diplomats for pursuing the case and ensuring the man was adequately compensated,” she said. 
 
 “Udaiyar’s brother was working in the same company and took care of him in the hospital. As the family members had no educational background and were unaware of local laws, they approached us and we took up the issue with the Centre,” said Sister Valarmathi.
 
 Parameswari said she would continue her  . “I hope that he recovers soon,” she added.
 
 
 
 
