PORVORIM: From the looks of it, Manohar Parrikar’s budget for the education sector appears ambitious, but it carries several old announcements packaged as new ones.

 Among the recycled schemes are setting up school complexes in   and Mapusa, along the lines of the integrated school complex at  . Also, budget provision was finally made to set up common facilities that the government had previously promised. Among the facilities to be provided are swimming pools, badminton and basketball courts, gymnasiums, etc.
 
 Another announcement for the complex was the formation of a committee of school managements at Cujira with a deputy director of education as the member secretary to “work out a plan to establish facilities like state-of-the-art library, comprehensive transport, 24 hours security service, construction of additional road for better connectivity and common sewage treatment plant, etc”. 
 
 Parrikar also announced a Rs 6 crore budget provision to “promote primary education in the mother tongue” but the grants, it appears, will be utilized to give special aid to Konkani and Marathi primary schools, which had been promised two years ago under a scheme but were not provided.
 
 The budget also provides Rs 50 crore for the cyberage scheme for students to receive the backlog of laptops of the last two financial years.
 
 Among the new announcements were additional transport facility to special schools, 50 counsellors for government and government-aided high schools and higher secondary schools in addition to the existing 40, training in value education and yoga to teachers in 350 government primary schools and upgradation of   and Goa College of Architecture. 
 
 Financial Literacy Camp and   at school-level to inculcate understanding of finance and banking matters for students was another new scheme announced. All these schemes are proposed to be implemented in 2017-18. Another new initiative is the conducting of pre-service training programs for college teachers, but grants for it are to be utilized from the national scheme Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan.
 
