New Delhi: PWD of Delhi government and the   police scripted a horror story on Thursday evening when suddenly, without any notice, drivers heading towards Noida and east Delhi through   found themselves trapped. PWD has shut three carriageways on the elevated road for repair and construction work. The bad news is that this work may last till April 15.

 The traffic police said they had issued their usual advisories on their social media handles but few seemed to have accessed them. The PWD had closed the loop connecting Barapullah to DND after which cops started diverting vehicles through the Sarai Kale Khan stretch. What followed was major confusion.
 
 PWD officials said construction work on Barapullah Phase III towards Mayur Vihar Extension had been undertaken due to which the loop towards DND had been closed. “No work is carried out without informing the agencies concerned,” said a PWD official.
 
 The Sarai Kale Khan route which remains choked due to Metro construction work led to a gridlock within a few hours. There was complete chaos for over two hours. "They should have informed people before closing this road. I wanted to take the road ahead but now I will have to take the longer route from here which will mean an additional one hour. It is particularly inconvenient for those going back home after work," said Mukul Sharma, an IT professional.
 
 Around 6pm, the traffic even on the loop near   had slowed down as there was a long tailback. Barapullah, according to one estimate, caters to almost 45% of the Noida-bound traffic from south and west Delhi.
 
 People were also seen stopping their cars and enquiring when the stretch was likely to open. “I have not seen the traffic police facebook page. There is no reason why the construction agency or the traffic police could not have informed us. We got to know when we reached the diversion point,” said  , a marketing professional going towards Noida.
 
 By late evening, jams were reported from   and   (from Ashram). Traffic policemen posted at the diversion points tried directing traffic towards Akshardham but the desperation to look for shorter routes blocked the oncoming carriageway on Ring Road. The traffic helpline was flooded with calls from drivers looking for alternative routes.
 
 "This is absurd as work is being carried out during peak hours. This stretch is usually clogged and the road closing has made things even worse," said Siddharth Aggarwal, a commuter. 
 
 PWD officials said they expect to complete the construction work by April 15.
 
