GURUGRAM: Another property dealer has been killed in the city — this time, a 40-year-old who was allegedly shot by three unidentified assailants outside his office in   near   on Gurugram-Pataudi Road on Thursday night. Police suspect it to be a case of personal enmity and have formed two special teams to nab the accused.

 The crime took place around 9.20 pm on Thursday. 
 
 Cops said Bharat Bhushan, originally from Chabili village in Jhajjar district, was sitting in his first-floor office and chatting with his friends when a person came and asked him to step out to meet three people who had come to see him. 
 
 Unsuspecting, Bhushan went out and as soon as he started a conversation with them, the trio whipped out pistols and shot him thrice before fleeing on two bikes. 
 
 His friends heard the gunshots and came out to find him lying in a pool of blood. 
 
 Bhushan was immediately rushed to a nearby private hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. 
 
 The police were informed and a team, led by inspector Lal Chand, SHO of Sector 10 police station, reached the spot.
 
 On the basis of a complaint by Satbir, one of the victim’s friends, an FIR has been registered under sections 302 (murder), 34 (common intention) of the IPC and sections 25-54-59 of Arms Act at Sector 10 police station. “We have not yet got any vital clue in the case as the man who came to the victim’s office was not known to any of his friends. Some CCTV cameras installed in nearby areas were also not functional. Anyway we are trying to identify the accused,” said inspector Chand.
 
 On Friday morning, the body has been handed to his family after a post-mortem. 
 
 “The property dealer lived in Ganpati Nagar alone while his family stayed in his native village. It is likely to be the result of personal enmity. We have formed two special teams to arrest the accused,” Sumit Kuhar, DCP (crime), told TOI. 
 
 Last month, two property dealers were shot dead allegedly by a business rival and his accomplices near Fazilpur Road in Farrukhnagar.
 
