JAIPUR: After making record number of passports in 2016, the   is coming up with more   and   in Rajasthan. Jhunjhunu, Jaisalmer and Jhalawar will get Passport Seva Kendra at the post offices while Udaipur is all set to get a new passport office within this month.

 According to the sources from the passport office Jaipur, on April 2 at Jhunjhunu a new post office passport centre would be inaugurated which would be followed by similar centre at Jaisalmer on April 3 and thereafter similar centre would be opened in Jhalawar on April 12.
 
 In the year 2016 nearly 3.15 lakh applicants were issued passports which is an all-time record for the state.
 
 Vivek Jeph, regional passport officer, since joining office in 2014 has made efforts to reach out to the rural interiors to facilitate people seeking passports. “When I joined I knew that the offices which make less than 2.50 lakh passports in a year come under the category of B-class. Thus, aiming at getting A-class status we organised various camps and made the process friendly and easier,” Jeph said while talking to TOI on Saturday.
 
 “In 2014 the number of passports issued in Rajasthan was 2.52 lakh which was followed by 3.10 lakh in 2015 and in 2016 we had issued 3.15 lakh passports that shows our commitment towards passport applicants,” he added.
 
 “It is often seen that touts operating in many districts fool the uneducated rural villagers who are seeking passports while aiming at working at various countries,” he added.
 
 Gyaneshwar Mulay, secretary, ministry of external affairs would be present along with the local MPs in respective districts.
 
 Senior officers said that when Muley was based in New York as consulate general of India many NRIs were in touch including many Rajasthani social workers who urged him to help Rajasthani people get timely passports. “During then counselee at your door was organised at 10 states of US where Indians were helped in their problems relating to passport, VISA etc,” said an officer.
 
 “After developing a rapport with the officer, being a Rajasthani I informed him that geographically our state is vast where people had to travel a distance of 200 to 500 kms to get their passports made. Thus, after he took charge as secretary, ministry of external affairs he facilitated the state by organising many passport camps and giving nod to new passport offices,” Prem Bhandari, a non-resident Rajasthani based in New York who was instrumental in getting these passport camps told TOI over phone from New York on Saturday.
 
 “If Dr APJ Abdul Kalam is known as missle man to me Mulay should be known as passport man,” he added. 
 
 Bhandari further stated that at Pali a mega passport camp has been organised in which physically challenged people would also be distributed motorized cycles. “The event is in the memory of Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar where the Central government will distribute these cycles,” Bhandari added.
 
