KOLHAPUR: The summer examination of the  , Kolhapur (SUK) will commence from March 24 across the division, said  ,   (COE), SUK in the circular on February 6. He added that students should submit the   by February 28 with regular fees, while by March 1 to 6; they can submit it with late fees. The last chance will be available to submit the exam forms with super late fees by March 7 to 11.

 The university, according to its circular has put the specific details regarding the examination form and the commencement date of examination with respective courses on its website.
 
 This year the summer examinations, unlike last summer examinations will start on their regular schedule. Last year the summer examinations had started earlier than the routine schedule, as the exams were preponed with the consideration of drought like situation in various areas of the division. The temporary change had forced the university to conduct engineering exam almost 40 days earlier than its routine. However, this year, with no such condition the exam will start on its regular schedule.
 
 The university, according to its officials, will conduct its March 2017 semester examination for the various under-graduate and post-graduate courses in the span of less than 50 days. 
 
 The circular added that during the summer semester examination, in the month of April the state eligibility test (SET) has been scheduled on April 16, due to which there wont be any exam on April 15 and 16. Similarly, on May 11, the Common entrance test (MHT-CET) for engineering courses has been organised, due to which, there wont be any exam on May 10 and 11.
 
 The circular further said that the decision to make seating arrangements of two different courses students on a single bench during the exam taken in the year 2014, should be continued for this year too.
 
 On the seating arrangements of the distance education centre students, it said that the study centres in the division should make sure that the seating arrangement of the students shall be made in the respective study centres only.
 
 Mahesh Kakade, controller of examinations of SUK had earlier said that the departments ultimate goal is to bring down the overall examination schedule to 30 days, so as to facilitate the pre and post-examination processes.
 
