BENGALURU: The number of   projects that have got Rera (Real Estate Regulation Act) registration numbers in the past one-and-a half months in Bengaluru is 78, out of the 1,449 applications received till the first week of September. Builders called the process "slow" which has left them frustrated.

 Property developers say they have been unable to register their projects on the state's Rera website due to technical glitches since the beginning of this month. Many wondered whether this is another layer of bureaucracy that defeats the purpose of the Rera Act.
 
 Government officials differ on this. Kapil Mohan, principal secretary of the state housing department, said all requirements are based on what is mentioned in the Rera Act. Rera, which came into effect earlier this year, looks to organize a largely unregulated sector, protect the interests of homebuyers, reduce corruption and bring professionalism and accountability in the sector.
 
 "We have not been able to market our products for the past two months. There is an inordinate delay,"   Properties managing director S   said. Shriram has 16 projects under the ambit of the law and none of it has obtained a Rera registration number as of Saturday.
 
 The rate of approval worked out to an abysmal one in every two days till Friday, when just 24 were given the nod. Since then, though, 54 more have been approved.
 
 Builders say the authority does not have enough resources to do the job quickly. In comparison,   received close to 13,000 applications till the end of August and has cleared 8,000 of them.
 
 Realtors have alleged that in spite of submitting relevant documents, they have been sent collective notices saying the information provided was insufficient.
 
 "I've been asked to submit encumbrance certificate, mutation, conversion order, sale deed and title deed for my projects while these were not mentioned anywhere on the portal," Suhail Rahman, executive director of  , said.
 
 Kapil Mohan, principal secretary of the state housing department, said: "Once a builder uploads the relevant information on the portal, they get a temporary number, which is enough to conduct day-to-day operations. The permanent number will take some time as there is a verification process."
 
 Builders say a sale agreement cannot be executed with the temporary number.
 
 Mohan admitted that it is a "learning process for all of us" and said the situation would improve in a week. "Problems have arisen in most cases where builders have failed to give us ownership title. I think there is a degree of discomfort in answering some questions. The government's approach is to correct the builders rather than reject applications."
 
 The authority, according to Mohan, is processing 30-40 projects every day and the delay comes when a realtor does not provide sufficient information."Once found deficient, the process of correcting takes a lot of time. The onus is on you to get it right, in the first place."
 
 Asked about complaints that some builders had received Rera numbers in a day or two, he said that is understandable. "If you have your files correct, it hardly takes 2-3 hours," he said.
 
