MUMBAI: "Umpiring karte kyon ho," screamed a livid   at umpire Virender Sharma after the latter adjudged him caught at forward short leg off  .

 Apart from the fact that there was daylight between bat and ball, the 31-year-old, who's not known to lose his cool that often, was justified on many counts in venting out his frustration at the howler, which put to shade the fielder Akhil Herwadkar's superb effort in sprinting behind and then diving to take the catch. 
 
 Currently in brilliant touch, the Gujarat skipper, competing for the Test wicketkeeper's slot with  , was batting on 32 against Rest of India on Day Three in the second innings of the Irani Cup game here at the Brabourne Stadium in Cricket Club of India (CCI), before his knock was cut short by the cruel decision, which may rob Gujarat of victory. Had Parthiv, who rushed to match referee Chinmay Sharma's room at tea, stayed at the wicket by the evening of Day Three, ROI could've even found themselves almost out of the game.
 
 Instead, this match now looks set for a pulsating climax. At close of play on Sunday, Gujarat, placed at 227 for eight in their second innings, were 359 runs ahead with just two wickets in hand. Assuming that they wrap up the tail quickly, ROI, with their batting might (skipper Cheteshwar Pujara,   and Abhinav Mukund, to name a few big guns), should be feeling confident about chasing down anything around 400 in the fourth innings. To add to their comfort level, they've almost two days at their disposal, and the pitch is still playing beautifully. Last year, ROI successfully chased down 482 in their final dig to record a stunning win over Mumbai.
 
 Before Patel's departure, Gujarat were boosted by their in-form opener Priyank Panchal (73, 135b, 9x4) and after his exit, they managed to avoid a collapse, thanks to another sterling knock from Chirag Gandhi. After slamming a magnificent 169 in the first innings, the No 6 batsman was once again carrying the team's hopes with an unbeaten 55 (96b, 7x4) in the second dig.
 
