PATNA: The sweet smell of the king of fruits has started pervading homes as people are turning up in hoards in the market to buy mangoes.

 The varieties available right now are imported mainly from south Indian states, including Kerala. However, at some places, mangoes from Bhagalpur are also being sold. 
 
 Gulab Khas from Kerala is available at Rs70 to Rs80 per kg while Mithua from the same state is being sold at Rs60/kg. Malda and Bambaiya from Bhagalpur are available in Rs120 to Rs160/kg range as the supply is very limited.
 
 “Although   is being sold since April 1, the local varieties made an appearance in the market only 10 days ago. The local varieties are far better in quality and taste and, hence, are more loved by people. I get nearly 40 customers per day,” said Sunil Kumar, a fruit shopowner at Income Tax roundabout.
 
 Malda and Bambaiya seem to be the varieties customers had been waiting for. According to Mohammad Saifi, a fruit seller near Sabzibagh, Malda is sold out in eight to nine hours every day. “I get 25 customers per day and some of them buy up to 5kg,” he said.
 
 Vinod Prasad has been selling fruits on Boring Road for the past 30 years. “I get nearly 100 customers for mangoes every day. As the season progresses, this number will increase. Other local varieties such as Zardalu and Zarda from Bhagalpur, Biju, Sipia and Sukul from Hajipur, Mithua from Bettiah and Kishanbhog from Darbhanga will enter the market in June,” Prasad said. He said most of the mangoes come to Bihar from South India.
 
 Shweta of Bander Bagicha, while buying Gulab Khas for her kids, said her family was eagerly waiting for the Digha Malda.
 
 Juice vendors can be found selling mango shakes at Rs30 per glass near the Income Tax roundabout. Manoj Kumar, who sells ‘AAM panna’, said about 60 people turn up at his stall every day. “The salty drink is essential for beating loo and heatstroke. Many women, especially college girls, visit my stall to have this drink,” he added. 
 
 
