The human body is a Pandora’s box that never ceases to amaze us with its quirks and mysteries. While we always believe the heart to be the seat of myriad emotions inspiring unbridled impulsiveness, the brain is considered to be an intricate, well organized network of nerve fibres that engenderlogical decision making and intellectual analysis. Now, it turns out, quite non-intuitively, that diverse maladies afflicting these two widely different organs apparently share a common origin.   (AD), the commonest form of  , has been shown to be consistently associated with cholesterol and inflammation, two major factors irrefutably involved in the causation of  . Research has presently revealed that the reason for this association lies in our genes.

 The study in question examined the genetic makeup of over 200000 persons to identify common elements in the genes associated with AD, CRP (an inflammatory protein) and cholesterol (categorized into HDL, LDL and triglycerides (TG). The search revealed about 55 sections of genes associated with CRP, HDL, LDL and TG that contributed to a greater risk of AD. Further analysis identified two novel genes (HS3ST1 and ECHDC3) that were previously not known to be associated with AD risk.The results of the study indicate that there are several sections of genes that are responsible for high plasma fat levels and inflammation which may play a role in the development of AD.
 
 The potential practical implications of these findings could be path breaking both in diagnosis and treatment. With the results of treatment of Alzheimers disease being mostly dismal, prevention and early diagnosis are the mainstay of management. A genetic analysis could identify patients at risk for development of heart disease and consequently, AD well before the onset of symptoms. Cholesterol and inflammation are both highly modifiable by multiple drugs. Treatment with cholesterol lowering drugs could not only treat heart disease but also prevent or delay the onset of AD as could anti-inflammatory drugs. Even delaying the onset of AD by 2 years could reduce the prevalence of the disease by 22 million cases over the next four decades thereby resulting in improved quality of life for the individual and immense savings of economical and human resources for the society.
 
 Hence, for the sizeable population of medicine-phobic forgetful truants, popping your daily pill just got further incentivized- it may protect you from an all pervasive forgetfulness in the future. Regardless, if your brain still gets afflicted, do not take it to heart. After all, its all in your genes!
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
