NAGPUR: A 44-year-old Dalit woman, who raised a voice against illegal activities, now faces a threat to her life at Vidyanand Nagar in Dudhdhamna near Dhawlameti. Some villagers have labelled  , who once taught kindergarten students, a witch, and blamed her black magic for ill health of neighbours.

 Since 2012, Shubhangana has been approaching Wadi police station and also senior police officials for help, but has ended up fighting physical and mental harassment, apart from social ostracization, alone. She has so far filed nine complaint applications against some neighbours, who have been repeatedly targeting her, and her family, but with no action by the cops. The police only woke up from their slumber earlier this year, and registered an offence, when Shubhangana complained of assault.
 
 Shubhangana, who has been staying at Vidyanand Nagar since 2008, claimed she was thrashed by the neighbouring Tembhare family on December 24, 2016. She was allegedly left unconscious for four hours, without help after the assault, presuming she was dead. “I was taken to hospital by police after someone alerted them,” she said.
 
 She has named Ramesh Tembhare’s son Mithun and his kin in her complaint, claiming they attacked her with iron rods and other objects, without any apparent reason.
 
 Shubhangana, whose case is now being fought by anti-superstition activist   and his team, said she had been protesting irregularities in the gram panchayat works, which had attracted the ire of many. “My neighbour Budharam Kowache became my worst enemy when I started objecting to illegal activities at his place, which was ruining families in the village,” she said.
 
 Recalling her torture, Shubhangana said she had gone to Yavatmal to attend a family function a couple of years ago when villagers ganged up to prove she was engaged in black magic. “I had coincidentally left on a full moon (pournima) day, and villagers started claiming that neighbour Ramesh Shende’s daughter Sonali started behaving eerily, as if possessed, and blamed me for putting a spell on her. They also made a video of the woman under some kind of a spell to mobilize opinion against me,” she claimed.
 
 “In the past, an official of collector rank and another senior official had addressed a meeting in the village, to try and end superstition, but that has only aggravated the problem. Even police do not show interest now,” she said.
 
 Shubhangana said some neighbours have started harassing her by throwing egg shells, carcasses and body parts of dead animals to frighten her. “My son had to discontinue his engineering studies after being harassed by villagers. My younger son has turned violent after seeing me being tortured relentlessly. My husband too has become depressed. Many times the villagers harass them, but they do not tell me,” she said.
 
 Activist Choubey, who is fighting for her, said villagers should have been booked under relevant sections of the state’s anti-superstition law. “Shubhangana has been complaining about her harassment over superstition since long, but police refuse to invoke the provision,” he said.
 
 However, subinspector Sachin Rakhunde of Wadi police station said Shubhangana has started claiming that she was being targeted for black magic after her case was chargesheeted, and had never said it earlier. “We feel her disputes with neighbours are the prime reason that she is being targeted, and not witchcraft,” he said.
 
