MADURAI: With the impending rollout of Goods & Services Tax from July 1, members of the trading community here say they face a dicey situation regarding the controlling authority. According to   and Industry, a situation has evolved wherein tax payers are to be controlled by the central excise and service tax officials of the Centre or by the commercial tax officials of the state government. Considering the complications, they said assessees should be allowed to choose the authority. 

 The chamber has observed that there has been a tug-of-war between officials of the two governments to garner control of the maximum number of assessees under  . Irrespective of whoever enforces the tax, there would be no change in the quantum of revenue to be obtained by the Union and state governments. This was because the entire revenue from State Goods and Services Tax (SGST) would go to the respective state governments and the revenue for Central Goods and Services Tax (CGST) to the Union Government. The tussle was only for controlling the assessees. As a solution to this contentious issue, the   had recommended that 90 per cent of GST tax payers with up to Rs 1.5 crore turnover would be assessed by the state while the remaining 10 per cent would be assessed by the Centre. As far as those above Rs. 1.5 crore turnover was concerned, the assessments would be done on 50:50 basis between the Centre and states.
 
 “We strongly oppose the division of assessees without any sustainable and justifiable basis and without any consultation with the GST tax payers just to appease the tax officials of both the governments,” said senior president of the chamber S Rethinavelu. If the split is made on the basis of turnover, the tax payers may face jurisdictional complexity every year once the turnover rises above and falls below the threshold, as the assessing authority will change from state to Centre and vice versa, he said. 
 
 GST Council should have confidence over the enforcing officials irrespective of their allegiance to the Union or state government that they will effectively make assessments whether the tax is against supply of goods or services made by the dealers or service providers. To overcome such predicament and problems that will be faced by the tax payers the assessees may be given the option to decide whether they wish to fall under the jurisdiction of the Central Tax Authority or the respective state government Tax Authority under GST. This depends upon factors like their past experience with tax authorities, comfort, better ambience, nature of business and quantum of intra, inter-state and export turnover and whether they are manufacturers, traders or service providers, the trade & industrial body recommended. 
 
