NEW DELHI:   (ASI) officials, looking after the upkeep of  , were left shell-shocked when they found a cache of bombs and bullets at the   on Monday morning. 

 Bomb squads of NSG and Delhi Police besides fire personnel were rushed to the spot. However, the ordnance turned out to be old ammunition of the Army.
 
 According to senior police officers, there were old grenades and cartridges, which were found during the cleaning of a well inside the Red Fort complex. Till 2004, there used to be an armoury at the same spot. Sources said there was some some live ordnance as well, which could have exploded anytime. 
 
 Some workers cleaning the well behind the publication building found the arms haul on Sunday evening. However, the boxes were randomly stashed there. ASI officials were shocked to see the ammunition when they opened the boxes on Monday morning. DCP of the area was informed after which the entire area was cordoned off.
 
 NSG teams, along with bomb disposal robots, reached the spot around 9.30am and secured the boxes. They were covered with Kevlar sheets and taken to the NSG hub in Manesar where they will be disposed of. Police officers say said the Army had also launched a probe into how the ammunition boxes had reached Red Fort, a highly-secured place.
 
 Cops have ruled out the possibility of a security breach. They rejected speculations that the explosives could have been planted by miscreants to use at a later stage. 
 
 NSG is supposed to give its feedback after which Delhi Police will submit a report to the home ministry on the incident. Police confirmed that around 100 fired rounds, live rounds, mortars and hand grenades were stashed in the boxes, but the exact count would be clear after the NSG gave its report. 
 
 The ammunition seemed to be more than 20 years old, cops said. The boxes were submerged in water, which was obstructing the flow of a drain. ASI had engaged workers to unclog the drain. An FIR under Explosives Act and Arms Act has been registered at Kotwali police station.
 
 
