CHENNAI: A   led by   will meet Chief Election Commissioner   on Wednesday in New Delhi to stake claim for the AIADMK's two-leaves symbol.   said the team had sought a meeting with the CEC to explain to him that the appointment of   as AIADMK general secretary was illegal and violative of the party constitution.

 “We got an appointment with the CEC for noon on Wednesday. We want to explain to the CEC why the two leaves symbol should be granted to us before the filing of nominations for the R K Nagar constituency begins on March 16,“ said a  .
 
 The dissident group is expected to announce its candidate for R K Nagar only after meeting the CEC. “Once we get the symbol, most of the party leaders and cadres will come to us and the Sasikala family will be out of the party ,“ said the leader.
 
 Meanwhile, the Panneerselvam faction sent its reply as sought by the CEC to the submissions made by Sasikala recently. AIADMK Rajya Sabha MP V Maitreyan sent a 61-page reply to the EC.
 
 “We rebutted each and ev ery point in Sasikala's submission to the EC. We have also enclosed supporting documents and evidences to our reply, which is in the form of an affidavit,“ AIADMK MP V Maitreyan told TOI over the phone from New Delhi.
 
 The EC asked the OPS group to reply to Sasikala's submission sent on March 10.The EC had returned the reply given by party deputy general secretary T T V Dinakaran stating that it should rightfully be sent by Sasikala.
 
 The OPS faction went into length the developments that preceded Sasikala's appointment as general secretary and the deliberations during the AIADMK general council meeting held on December 31 when she was chosen to succeed Jayalalithaa.
 
 “The party bylaws clearly say that only the primary members of the party in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala and Andaman and Nicobar islands can choose a general secretary through an election if there is more than one nomination.Thus we explained that the appointment of Sasikala was illegal,“ said a Panneerselvam supporter.
 
 Their affidavit said there was no agenda for the general council meeting after which the party announced Sasikala as the new general secretary. “There was no agenda for the general body meeting and all the members of the council, who attended the meeting, were asked to sign a registry. It was only after the meeting began that the members knew what the agenda was,“ said the leader.
 
