GANDHINAGAR: The BJP has planned a crucial   of the state executive at Somnath from April 21 to 23. National BJP president   is likely to attend the meeting on two days. Chief Minister  , all state cabinet ministers, state BJP president Jitu Vaghani, and all state and district-level office-bearers will also participate. 

 BJP's choice of Somnath as the venue is also considered significant as the party is already wooing its core  . Further, there is a lot of speculation within the BJP about the Somnath meeting and rumours of early elections have already started circulating.
 
 State BJP spokesperson Bharat Pandya said that on the first day, the party's state office-bearers will discuss various issues. 
 
 "On April 22 and 23, national BJP president Amit Shah is also likely to participate," Pandya said. "The party will discuss the feedback on its various programmes held from April 6 to April 14 and also the programmes related to the upcoming  .''
 
  'Minimum risk' view may tempt BJP into early polls 
 
  It may be recalled that national BJP president Amit Shah, on March 29, had made a statement about assembly elections in November. This was after the party had announced a three-day state executive meeting at Somnath. 
 
 Soon after Shah's statement, the state BJP had swung into damage control mode by using the media to state that Shah's statement does not rule out the possibility of early elections. Political circles are currently abuzz with talk about early polls being held in May or June but it is all speculation.
 
 A senior BJP leader said that the party had attended to problems in critical areas through various programmes and party events. 
 
 "The tribal areas were considered risky but we have reduced the risk by the Tribal Yatra," the leader said. 
 
 "Our party cadre up to booth level are almost ready and trained. Party workers also feel early elections will help. The party faces minimum risk if elections are held now." 
 
 The BJP leader further said that the Patidar stir and agitations by other castes are not alive at the moment. 
 
 "Giving more time to the Congress and other parties may also prove costly as there will be a close fight on many seats. For these reasons, the party may opt for early elections," the leader said.
 
