NEW DELHI: In a bold move, the Delhi selectors have replaced   with 19-year-old   as captain of the team.

 The selectors -  ,  ,   and coach   - decided this after a meeting at the Ferozeshah Kotla on Thursday to pick a list of 42 probables for the Vijay Hazare trophy which starts from Feb 25.
 
 It is learnt that all selectors were on the same page and believed the Delhi team needed a change of guard. While they discussed the names of other senior players like   and  , the selectors tilted towards the 19-year-old wicketkeeper-opener. “The idea is to groom a young boy for the future in the presence of a veteran like Gambhir. He will be more like an understudy to Gambhir,“ a source close to the selection panel told TOI on Thursday .
 
 It is also learnt that Dhawan was not very keen on accepting the captaincy. Unmukt was initially named the captain for the entire season ahead of the Ranji Trophy but sources claimed the opening batsman wasn't very comfortable leading the side in presence of Gambhir during the season and requested his senior to lead the team. Pant, who has played 10 first-class matches and three List A games, is seen as the next big thing in Delhi cricket and with the 35-year-old Gambhir running the last lap of his career, the selectors wanted someone who could take the team forward. Pant recently made his debut for India in the last T20I against England whereas Gambhir's batting has been on the wane.Pant, on the other hand, has been performing at all levels across formats.
 
 Barring making the final of the Vijay Hazare Trophy last year, Gambhir couldn't take his team past the league stages of Ranji Trophy . Sources close to the team management said the young boys in the side were struggling to express themselves.“They were getting intimidated by Gambhir. With Pant coming in, they can feel a bit more relaxed,“ the source reckoned. During Gambhir's reign, after he was dropped from the Indian team in 2013, a lot of controversies hit the team. Incidents like Virender Sehwag's sudden departure from Delhi to Haryana, leaving out a veteran like Rajat Bhatia a week before the Ranji season got underway , and constant tiff with the ground staff have all been allegedly linked to Gambhir's interference.
 
 He was very clear in a stating that he wanted to build a young and ambitious team. At the moment, both Pant and Gambhir are with the North Zone team in Mumbai for the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 tournament. The roadmap for Delhi cricket will only be made after they join the Delhi team.
 
 Vijay Hazare to be played at neutral venues too
 
 The idea of playing Ranji Trophy at neutral venues might have got a mixed response, the BCCI is also going ahead with its plan of hosting the Vijay Hazare 50-over tournament at neutral venues. While the decision wasn't made public made while announcing the idea for Ranji Trophy , sources in the technical committee said that the plan was always to have the league stage of the tournament on neutral grounds. No team will get to play in their own zone unlike the previous years. For example, north zone teams will travel to east and teams from south zone will come over to north. The knockouts will be played in Delhi in the second week of March.
 
 
