Nagpur: City has ranked poorly at 137 place out of 434 cities in Swachh Survekshan-2017 of the Central government. City stood 12th among 44 cities in Maharashtra and 2nd in eight cities of Vidarbha. Known as one of the most polluted cities in the nation, Chandrapur nevertheless emerged cleanest among all cities in Vidarbha in the rankings. Urban development minister M Venkaiah Naidu on Thursday released the rankings. City’s rank sent ripples across the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) administration and also office bearers as all were expecting the city to be at least in top 50. This is a setback since 2016 when Nagpur was ranked 20th among 73 cities while it is an improvement from 2014 and 2010 during which the city was ranked 256 and 239, respectively. Known as one of the five greenest in the county, the city failed to execute works sanctioned by the Centre under Swachh Bharat Mission. Though pursued by chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari, NMC did not begin treatment of garbage and construction of public and individual toilets. Also, the civic body neglected launching and popularizing Swachhata App that was made mandatory by the Centre to address citizens’ problems and get feedback from them. Ruling party leader Sandip Joshi explained the poor ranking by saying it was because bigger cities were being compared with smaller ones. “City has around 25 lakh population and spread over 222 sq.km area. It cannot be compared with towns like Chandrapur. Its ranking could have been better if it was compared with cities having population over 10 lakh or 20 lakh. I feel we should have been among first 50. We will find out where we went wrong and improve rankings next time,” he said. Leader of opposition in NMC Sanjay Mahakalkar termed the 137th rank as certificate of BJP’s failure in running NMC and the city. He said ruling party was responsible for loss of glory from the time when Nagpur ranked among top 10 cities during Congress regime. He said BJP had privatized all works including door-to-door garbage collection and transportation. Private companies are only engaged in earning money and services are deteriorating. “NMC office bearers have no control over administration or private companies,” he said. Agreeing that city could not be compared with towns having population of over 1 lakh, Leena Budhe from NGO Centre for Sustainable Development which is assisting NMC in Swachh Bharat Mission said the city had fallen prey to negative marking by the inspection team. “NMC engineers are also responsible for inordinate delay in commencement of works like waste to energy project, construction of individual and public toilets and garbage segregation at source. Inspection was done in January when city was in elections mode. Rankings are mostly based on data. NMC failed to submit proper data to the team,” she said. Budhe added the team had studied Indore’s door to door garbage collection system and appreciated it. “Nagpur is far better than those featured in top 50. Citizens feedback was another reason for setback. We sent contact numbers of 1,000 people from each of 10 zones. One of five questions asked by the team to the citizens was whether NMC had provided dustbin near to them. NMC implemented dustbin-free project in 2008 and had removed most of the bins. Therefore, feedback turned negative for us instead of getting appreciation for such a project,” she said. Another reason for debacle was in open defecation free status. NMC had set August 15, 2016, as deadline but failed to achieve it. It was revised to January 26 that too ended up with no result.