HYDERABAD: Travelling to the US? Be at peace if your documents are in place. If not, brace yourself up for some tough questions. Amidst fears of the new   tightening  , those who recently flew in and out of the country clarify that there's little reason to be alarmed. While they admit that officials, manning the gates, are enforcing the law more strictly these days they maintain that entry into the US can be smooth if the visitor is able to answer all questions to the satisfaction of immigration officers.

 “There is no need to worry if one has all supporting papers,“ said  , with businesses in Hyderabad and Atlanta. The 41-year-old, who arrived in the city recently, said that the scare about entering the US, is unfounded. “Only those who try setting foot in the country through unlawful means are likely to get caught during questioning. Otherwise there is no such issue. I can vouch that I will have no problems when I return to the US, two months from now, because I follow the rules strictly,“ Reddy said.
 
 Also, observers say how the immigration procedure followed by   has never been easy. Only, now it has become slightly stricter.
 
 It may be recalled, between October 2015 and January 2016, about 550 students from Hyderabad were deported from various entry ports in the US following a controversy over two “blacklisted“ universities. Students had then argued that the authorities should not have granted them visas, if the universities they had enrolled with, had a dubious distinction.
 
 But sources familiar with the immigration process say that deportations result only when officials grow suspicious of the intention of a passenger arriving on a student, work or tourist visa.
 
 “Immigration officials are only doing their job,“ Reddy said, citing the example of a friend employed with an Indian firm in San Francisco.“He has a H1B visa. He had no problems when he recently returned to the US after a vacation in India,“ Reddy added. On the other hand, an Indian student who went to the US to complete the fourth semester of his ongoing MS programme was not as lucky .He was sent away by immigration officials. Reason: he had broken the law and taken up a part-time job during his previous stint in the country .When this was confirmed from his phone records, authorities wasted no time in deporting him.
 
 Another man from the city met with a similar fate after landing in the US to attend a conference. Turns out, in an attempt to make an impression on the immigration officials he said: “My uncle is a big man. He is the organiser of the conference.“ He was sent packing as authorities felt his attendance at the con ference was not purely for official purposes, said those in the know of things.
 
 Yet another incidence of deportation was reported from Visakhapatnam. Sources say the woman, travelling on a H1B visa, claimed that she had job in the US. When authorities called her apparent employer in Texas they were told she did not have the job anymore.
 
 “It is only in such cases that people are likely to face deportation. Yes, the norms are stricter now, but genuine travellers have no cause for concern,“ reiterated a source familiar with the immigration process.
 
