MUMBAI: In a first, six Chinese nationals, including a pregnant woman who was later identified as the ringleader, were arrested by the   at the international airport for trying to smuggle into the country 6.1kg gold worth Rs 1.85 crore on Wednesday. They were later released on bail.

 The main accused in the case is 32-year-old Zhou Liwui, a businesswoman and a frequent visitor to India. Liwui, who is into import and export of diamonds, would come to the city to meet her clients at the Bharat Diamond Bourse in BKC, said officials. She is believed to have convinced the others to indulge in gold smuggling to make easy money.
 
 On Wednesday, a passenger who had arrived from Hong Kong, bent a little to collect his baggage from the conveyor belt and a heavy gold chain came out of his shirt which attracted a Customs official’s attention. He was intercepted and the officials that he was wearing more gold ornaments. They found it difficult to communicate with him in Chinese, but soon realised that he was not alone. Two of his accomplices, including Liwui, had moved towards the exit before the Customs officials intercepted them. They too were wearing thick   with Lord Buddha pendants, buckles made of crude gold attached to the leather belt around their waist and crude rectangular gold bars with inscriptions of Tibetan deities. 
 
 Officials decided to keep a tab on the next flight arriving from Bejing and intercepted three Chinese nationals wearing similar jewellery. 
 
 Only Zhou could communicate in English, officials said. 
 
 While Customs officials claimed that all six were part of a group, Zhou, whose statement was recorded, denied she was with the five others. Officials said that she took this stand to obtain bail because if the value of the gold seized from an individual or a group is over Rs 1 crore, the accused have to be produced in court. Officials are probing the role of their associates in Mumbai.
 
 Officials said one of the reasons for channelizing the smu-ggling through China could be that the “suspicion quotient” is minimal. Last year, DRI officials had caught a Japanese trader trying to smuggle in five gold bars worth Rs 1.48 crore by taping them to his groin. Since March 10, Customs officials have seized gold and diamond jewellery worth Rs 1.7 crore from nine flyers. Two of the seizures were from a Sri Lankan wom-an, Ajantha Vithange, and a Sudanese woman, Amal Elhag.
 
