PATNA: The residents of   and Shanti Niketan located between Naya Tola ( ) and   have been suffering from waterlogging and other civic problems for the last three-and-a-half decades. While the inner road that passes through them has been blocked at one end, a section of the road has also been illegally acquired by an influential family in the locality.

 Even the assurance given by the then urban development minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav on the floor of the legislative council in March 1996 that the encroachment would be removed has come to a naught. The question had been raised in the legislative council by MLC Jai Mangal Singh.
 
 Besides, the Patna high court also ordered in favour of the residents of the two colonies on August 19 the same year, but neither the   (PRDA) nor   (PMC) could remove the encroachment till now.
 
 As the harrowed residents kept on knocking at the doors of the authorities concerned, PMC finally decided to get the encroachment cleared and the executive officer of   wrote a letter to the town magistrate and in-charge of the district control room on September 7 for the deployment of a magistrate and required police force the next day.
 
 The executive officer (Kankarbagh) also referred to the high court order regarding anti-encroachment drive apart from pointing out that the encroachment/blockage of the road has led to waterlogging in the two colonies. However, no follow-up action has been taken so far.
 
 As the map of the locality shows, the encroached road, which PRDA had earlier selected for widening up to 20 feet, lies right in front of Keshav Saraswati Vidya Mandir and Litera Valley School, which are located on Naya Tola (Kumhrar) Road.
 
 The encroached road concerned links Naya Tola (Kumhrar) Road with Bhootnath Road. The residents of the two colonies said around 200 families have been deprived of basic civic facilities (as the electricity and telephone wires were illegally cut and stolen in 1998). Children going to the two schools have to take circuitous route. 
 
