KOLKATA: Work on the  , 280 km upstream from Kolkata, that promises a  , has just begun after a  . In a fortnight, the foundation stone of the project, a technological marvel by itself, will be formally laid by the Union minister of shipping, Nitin Gadkari. The new navigational lock is being constructed by   (L&T) at a cost of Rs 359 crore and will facilitate smoother and faster dispersal of vessels.

 A navigational lock is a device used for raising and lowering ships or vessels between stretches of water of different levels on river and canal waterways. At present, a ship takes more than two hours to pass upstream or downstream of Farakka, because of a very old lock at the barrage which has been operational since 1978.The new lock will facilitate the crossing over precisely in 38 minutes. If movement of a vessel is followed by movement of another vessel in the reverse di rection, the operating time will be 23 minutes only.
 
 The delay in crossing Farakka barrage was one of major hindering points for mariti me development along the National Waterway­I (NW-I).
 
 A lot of tourist vessels often cut short their trip to avoid the long queue at the Farakka navigational lock.
 
 The Union Cabinet has already approved the transfer of 14.86 hectares of land from Farakka Barrage Project under the ministry of water resources to Inland Waterways Authority of India (IWAI) under the ministry of shipping for construction of a new navigational lock, parallel to the existing one at Farakka. The work is being executed in such a manner that the existing arrangements about sharing of Ganga water at Farakka, as per Ganga Water Treaty (1996) between India and Bangladesh, are not affected, IWAI sources said.
 
 Farakka is a barrage across the Ganga in Bengal, roughly 16.5km from Bangladesh near Chapai Nawabganj district.
 
 The new lock will have state-of-the-art features like electro hydraulic operations of Mitre Gates and Radial Gates on filling culverts and remote control operations of all the gates from a central control room, said an IWAI official. The target for completion is more than 30 months. The Farakka navigational lock is the third major work on NW-1 to be awarded in record time.
 
