PATNA: The   ( ) would get a study conducted for re-excavation of the Kumhrar site, ASI’s Patna circle superintending archaeologist N K Pathak told TOI on Monday. Chief minister   on Sunday expressed his wish for removal of sand and soil over many of the 80 pillars at Kumhrar.

 “We have already had talks in this regard with the state government and an expert agency such as IIT would soon be appointed to study the underground water level pattern and the methodology for re-excavating the 80-pillared hall,” said Pathak.
 
 The famed 80-pillared hall first came to light in 1912-15 during excavations carried out by British Archaeological Survey of India under D B Spooner with the funds donated by the   after remaining buried for two millennia. In this excavation, traces of 72 pillars were found.
 
 Further, during the excavation carried out at the same site in 1951-55 by city-based K P  , eight more pillars of the hall and four additional ones belonging to the entrance or porch were exposed. Since then, it is popularly referred as the ‘80-pillared hall’.
 
 However, the ASI got the site filled with sand and soil in 2014, claiming perennial waterlogging. Since then, the entire hall is buried underground and no efforts have been taken to re-excavate it.
 
 Nitish, during his visit to Kumhrar park on Sunday, said the problem of water seepage and rise in water table should be studied by experts to find solutions, so that people could see the historic structure. Nitish said the state government would provide all possible support to ASI on this issue.
 
 “The underground water level used to be comparatively high in and around Kumhrar, which used to lead to water seepage problem. The study to be conducted by expert agency would assess the water level pattern at present in order to find ways to re-excavate the 80- pillared hall,” said Pathak.
 
 As per records with the ASI, all pillars at the assembly hall were made of black spotted buff sandstone monoliths with a lustrous shine typical of the Mauryan period. Regarding the nature of this hall, it has been variously assigned as the palace of Asoka, audience hall, throne room of Mauryas, a pleasure hall or the conference hall for the third Buddhist council held at Pataliputra in 3rd Century B.C. during the reign of Asoka.
 
 
