

 Amona, in Bicholim taluka, is an abode to temples and festivals that are frequented by devotees from across   and outside the state.
 
 This   has goddess Shanta Durga as the central figure among all the deities of the village. “Goddess Durga is treated as the mother of the entire village and under the sacred aegis of Shanta Durga Devasthan Samiti. Apart from the main deity of Shanta Durga, there are three other places of worship called Betal devasthan, Devi Mahalaxmi temple, Mahadev devasthan,” states Sudakar Gawas of Kalam wada.
 
 The village has seven wards and nine ‘vadde’(traditional village wards) like Ambheshi, Pimpal, Kalam, Betal, Fadte, Bhagat, Bhadarvadda, Ghadi and Sawant. It houses a population of 3,500 persons. It is also a revered ground for other deities including Dev Betal, Devi Shree Mahalaxmi Ravalnath, ShreeDurga, Dev Shree Amruteshwar Dev Bhutnath etc.
 
 Amona, in its distant past, was known as Amravati. It may be the only village in Goa to have two crematoriums. The four gaunkar families of Parab, Sinari, Gawas and Fadte have a separate crematorium with pyres alloted to them. Another crematorium serves the needs of the rest of the village. Soma Gawas of Pimpal wada says “It is believed that the entire stretch of   was a mango basket i.e. the land was full of mangos”.
 
 Residents’ Speak
 
 Amravati or Amona Shigmotsav Gulal or Dulvat is one of the famous and unique festivals of Goa that is celebrated eight days after the Holi festival and begins either on Wednesday or Sunday with the showering of gulal on Devi Shantadurga, Dev Betal and Dev Bhutnath. The village is a hotspot of festivals. During the Hindu calendar year, its respective temples has feasts or festivals. Around 35 nataks are held annually. Siddarth Sawant | resident
 
 Almost 90 percent of the residents practice the traditional occupation of agriculture. Rice, mainly Korgut variety and vegetables like onion, chillies, raddish and white pumpkin are grown through organic farming, which is devoid of pesticides.
 
 Sandesh Gurudas Naik | resident
 
 Sarpanch’s take
 
 Apart from its rich legacy of housing temples and hosting festivals, people of Amona are excelling in academics, too, and it can be gauged by their achievement as Amonkars are occupying important posts in the government sector. The panchayat is in total agreement with the villagers and states that the mining company could have done a lot more on the development front for the village, especially from its CSR fund. It is sad that the dust emanating from its pig iron plant has proved to be a disastrous bane for our cashew and mango production.
 
 Manjushree Mahadev Parab
 
 RENOWNED RESIDENTS
 
 Dr Dilip Amonkar | General surgeon at Goa medical college and hospital, Bambolim
 
 Govind Parab | Holds a Ph.D and is the first gazetted officer from Amona
 
 Vitin Vinayak Sawant | Retired with 10 years of service as aeronautical engineer in the Indian Navy
 
 Rama Halarnkar | Gazetted officer and is director, IDC
 
 Ulhas Shiva Parab | Deputy registrar at Goa University
 
 Sudakar Gawas | President of Shanta Durga Devasthan Samiti
 
 Soma Yeshwant Gawas | President of Amona comunidade
 
 Datta Guru Amonkar | Holds a Ph.D and is associated with Kala Academy
 
 Hemant Pandarinatha Parab | A member of the Under-19 Goa men’s cricket team
 
 Ambikanand Parab | Chemical engineer from Karnataka University
 
 Raghunath Narayan Sawant | Noted natak artiste, aged 84
 
 Narayan Govekar | Noted singer and natak artiste
 
 Siddharth Sawant | Manager direct sales team, Goa region, for a cellphone company
 
 Heritage Trail
 
 Amona Pig Iron Plant
 
 Owned by Sesa Goa Limited (Vedanta Resources Group), it became operational in 1992. Thought it is situated between the border of Amona and Navelim, Amona has a major portion of the industrial unit
 
 Devi Shree Shantadurga Santeri Prasann
 
 The abode of the goddess, who is considered to be the gram devi or the owner of Amravati or Amona village, is the central place for worship . It’s zatra (idols of the deity taken out on a procession) held annually in December holds an important place in Goa
 
 Sluice Gate 
 
 The scenic spot located at Ambeshi vaddo, which lies across the agricultural fields becomes a hotspot on two different occasions - during the December auction of local fish Kalundar (pearl spot), Shevto (mullet), prawns etc, and during the Ganesh visarjaan (immersion of the deity in the river during Ganesh Chaturthi)
 
 Shree Mahalaxmi Ravalnath Temple 
 
 Situated at Bhagat wada, it is another important place of worship for all Amonkars
 
 Shree Bhutnath Prasann 
 
 Another 18th century temple, it is located in Sawant wada. Amrutshewar temple and Durga Devi are other important temples in the village
 
 Government Primary School
 
 The educational institute situated next to the village panchayat was established after liberation and it caters to formative years of schooling from Class 1 to Class 4. In addition, Amona also has a primary school behind Shree Chavdeshwar Prasaan and a high school next to the Betal temple
 
 Amona Ferry Point
 
 Situated next to Shree Bhutnath Prasann, this area in the pre-liberation days, was the only route for commuting needs of the villagers of Amona to other parts of Goa and vice-versa.
 
 Betal Devasthan
 
 It is an 18th century temple situated at Betal vaddo and its Vardapan Diwas (Establishment Day) is observed annually during the month of May
 
 Shree Chavdeshwar Prasaan 
 
 Located at Sawant wada, the patron of the monument is not considered as a god but, a Devchar, whose main task along with his three other counterparts, Koneshwar , Ajoba and Khutyekar is to protect the four surroundings of the village
 
 
