MANGALURU:  , Puttur is in the alacrity of observing the birth anniversary of youth icon Swami Vivekananda with the launch of   on January 12. The Sangha will also conduct a day long job fair, aimed at rural youth, launch the Vivekananda Employment Information and Training Centre, and inaugurate the new building of   (VCET) on January 13.

 Kalladka Prabhakar Bhat, president of the Sangha told reporters that the community FM radio Panchajanya aims to spread traditional unwritten knowledge for posterity. There is a treasure trove of undocumented knowledge bank that has to be tapped and brought to light, he said adding the   will base its programming on the tenets of nationalism with the sound foundation of Indian culture and traditions in line with the founding philosophy of the Sanhga.
 
 The college has set up a recording studio, a transmitter booth and a radio tower for the purpose, he said adding the community radio will focus on education, sports, science, music, technology, agriculture, literature, dairying, drama and other local events and festivals. Nirmala Sitharaman, union minister of state for commerce will dedicate this community radio. Pradeep, sahaprachar pramukh, Karnataka southern region, RSS will deliver the keynote address.
 
 Nearly 10,000 job aspirants have already registered for the job-fair that will be held on January 13 and 150 and more companies have evinced interest to be part of the event. Interested may register at www.vivekaudyoga.com or call 8762837499 to do so. They should bring copies of their bio-data and original marks list. Vehicle arrangements from various places have been made for benefit of rural youth who are scheduled to attend the job fair, he noted.
 
 Companies that are scheduled to attend the fair include Wipro, Infosys, ITC, Big Bazaar, Volvo, Flipkart, Ambuja Cement, Saint Gobain, Manipal Technology, HDFC, Kotak Mahindra. The final count of companies would well touch 300, he surmised. Rajiv Pratap Rudy, union minister of state for skill development and entrepreneurship will inaugurate the job fair as well as the new building of VCET and Vivekananda Employment Information and Training Centre.
 
 
