PUNE: The city is set to see a quantum jump in the number of  , adding to its traffic burden.

 Reason: New  . The system of issuing permits has been made fully online.   officials claimed that the number of three-wheelers could increase by almost 25,000.
 
 “More than 1,600 applications for permits were received on Monday — the day of formal inauguration of the process. The RTO is giving fresh permits after 20 years, which will create employment. At present, many complaints trickle in about the dearth of public transport options, including autorickshaws,” Babasaheb Ajri, the Pune regional transport officer, said.
 
 Anant Shreshtha, a resident of the Koregaon Park area working in a BPO along the Ahmednagar Road disagreed.
 
 “There are so many autorickshaws in Pune now and when I go back from work, the entire stretch of road is clogged mainly with autorickshaws and public buses. Though adequate public transport option is a need for any city, Pune needs an organized transport system. Right now, there are many autorickshaws but refusals are so common. How can the RTO guarantee that more autorickshaws will lead to fewer refusals?” Anant told TOI.
 
 Baba Shinde, the president of Maharashtra State Passengers and Goods Transport Association, said going by the rate, there could be 25,000 to 30,000 new autorickshaws on roads soon. “There was a huge rush of autorickshaw drivers at the RTO office on Monday. This shows the excitement. Moreover, the RTO is adding to new transport modes and e-rickshaws will be coming soon. Their number will also be decent. I feel that the commuters will be getting more options and it is a good sign,” Shinde said.
 
 At present, there are 45, 000 autorickshaws registered and plying in Pune.
 
 Commuters stressed the problem with Pune was unorganized driving. “The road conditions in the city can be said to be better than other places. But the problem is no adherence to traffic rules and regulations. All kinds of vehicles, both public and private, have no respect for traffic rules. Recently, there have been quite a few accidents, some of them fatal, involving PMPML buses. Drivers tend to jump signals, drive the wrong way and park anywhere. This puts pressure on roads and the end-result is huge traffic jams on almost every street,” said Sanjeev Nagre, who works in a bank and is a regular user of public transport.
 
 “One can only imagine the scene when extra vehicles join the fleet under these circumstances. The authorities must first enforce proper discipline among the drivers before increasing vehicles. Autorickshaw have always been a nuisance.”
 
 
