GURUGRAM: Upbeat over its initial success, the horticulture department is all set to provide a major impetus to its ambitious community gardening project, turning it into a viable business model. The department has decided to create a market for organic fruits and vegetables produced by citizens, in a first-of-its-kind move that will not only promote healthy eating among residents but also encourage more people to take to farming. 

 Under the initiative,  , the department will help community members to connect with people who are willing to buy fresh-from-the-field products.
 
 “We are working on a system, where community members will reach out to their friends, relatives and neighbours through WhatsApp groups to create a demand for organic fruits and vegetables,” said  , district horticulture officer.
 
 Further, a new office will be set up to create a central processing, distribution and delivery system, which will take produce from community gardens to customers. “The entire business will be run by residents, with our support,” said Khan.
 
 In the first phase of their project, which was kicked off on October 1 last year, 70 people had enrolled to lease plots for kitchen gardens. The department had made farming land available at Tikli, a village near Badshapur. 
 
 According to the official, the project received amazing response from residents. Many community farmers pitched the idea to take their organic produce to more households. 
 
 Khan said in the second phase, which will start soon, the department is planning to rope in another 70 urban farmers to ensure proper supply of   and fruits to the proposed market. Interested residents can call the helpline number (01242324067) to enrol for the project. “Currently, there are around 148 farmers who are growing organic fruits and vegetables in Gurgaon. They will all be brought under the initiative,” said Khan. “Our organic products will be sold at half the prices of fruits and vegetables grown with chemicals.”
 
 
 
 
