If   were President of the   around five decades ago, perhaps the story of Frank Islam would not have been worth telling. For, had there been an entry barrier keeping out the middle-class Muslim boy from the backwaters of Azamgarh, his American dream would have remained just that--a dream.

 Islam is a shining example of what America stands for, or at least stood for, before Trump tried to crush those values under the walls of exclusivism. An Indian-American, Islam is justifiably proud of America's famed inclusivism and tolerance. Islam was in the city on Tuesday to address the   at a Juhu Hotel.
 
 “This is the city of the Tatas and the Ambanis who touched countless lives. Write your own legacy,“ Islam, 64, told a group of around 100 entrepreneurs, giving glimpses of his own extraordinary career path and describing what it takes to become an entrepreneur. “The entrepreneur sees opportunities where others see problems,“ he said.
 
 “I also don't agree with the old adage that leaders are born, not made, and entrepreneurs are made, not born.I am the living proof of this,“ Islam added.
 
 Two years ago, Islam hit the headlines pledging $2 million (over Rs 13 crore) to his alma-mater Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) to fund the construction of the massive Frank and Debbie (his wife) Islam Management Complex. It was the biggest endowment to AMU by an individual in the varsity's over century-old history.
 
 After inauguration of the complex earlier this month, Islam flew into Mumbai on Tuesday where, besides attending other functions, he also met his close relatives.
 
 He spoke to TOI on varied subjects, ranging from Trump's policies to Indian Muslims. “Trump is not a polished politician. He will do wrong things right and right things poorly,“ he commented.
 
 “My story could not have happened had America not been an inclusive, open society which embraced everyone,“ emphasised Islam.
 
 After completing his MSc in Mathematics at AMU, Islam went to the   to study computer science. Once in the US, he realized people there had problems pronouncing his name, which was Shah Fakhrul Islam. So he shortened it to simply `Frank Islam'.Years later, Islam grew to gain such prominence in the US that he was part of the business delegation accompanying the then US President   as India's guest at the Republic Day celebrations in 2015.
 
 After creating immense wealth as a successful entrepreneur--he built IT company QSS Group from one employee--himself--to over 2,000 employees, he sold it to establish a private investment holding company in 2007.
 
 Today, Islam is mo re of a philanthropist and thought leader than an entrepreneur. “I don't believe in handing out money to the poor. I believe in giving a helping hand to them,“ he said.
 
 Islam said Muslims had a great responsibility to defeat terrorist outfits like ISIS. “ISIS or ISIL has hijacked our faith which believes in equality, dignity, compassion and respect for other faiths,“ he said. “We have to reclaim our faith from those dangerous forces.“
 
