NAGPUR: Employees Provident Fund Organisation ( ), the government social   for  , has got disclosures for 66 lakh new workers through an  . The scheme is open till March 31.

 This surpasses the target by 6 lakh workers and with two more weeks to go for the scheme to end, more disclosures are expected. The Nagpur office, which covers   and some parts of  , has got disclosures for 10,000 new workers. The target set for the Nagpur office, however, stands at 29,000 fresh employees. Teams of EPFO officials are holding meets with various industries organizations to get more disclosures so that the shortfall can be met.
 
 The targets were, however, higher when the scheme was launched in January. EPFO offices all over the country got a cumulative target of adding one crore new employees in the beginning. For Nagpur, it was 55,000. However, when the formal communication related to targets was sent, it was 60 lakh on the whole and 29,000 for Nagpur. This was done to considering the realistic levels, said sources.
 
 Apart from industries’ associations, the EPFO officers here are also holding meetings with traders. Traders who generally have casual employees, are being stressed that even such workers can attract PF liability. This is because casual workers with trading firms are engaged on more or less regular basis. 
 
 A recent meeting was held with the hotel owners’ associations too. At the same time, there are certain associations like the plastic manufacturers’ body that have not responded to the EPFO’s request to hold an awareness meeting so far. 
 
 The amnesty scheme for defaulting employers not disclosing the true number of workers to EPFO was launched in lines with income tax scheme. Any establishment having more than 20 workers is liable for PF coverage.
 
 The scheme was launched on the grounds that there are a large number of employers who are not disclosing the actual number of employees engaged in their establishment to to keep their PF liability low. Apart from deducting an amount towards PF from the employees’ salary, an equal contribution has to be made by the employer also, which many tend to avoid.
 
 The scheme cuts down the penalty for default to a nominal level attracting more workers. Before the scheme, EPFO had 4 crore workers in its fold out of which 2.75 lakh are under the Nagpur office.
 
