AURANGABAD: Industrialists and traders from the region are hoping for lower taxes and   rates from the upcoming   to boost the market that had taken a hit post-domonetisation. 

 For the city, the industrialists are expecting a special financial package for the growth of DMIC project. 
 
 President of Chamber of Marathwada Industries and Agriculture (CMIA) G S Bagga believes that reduced interest rates and lowered taxes will create a positive business environment in the country. “It will accelerate commercial activities, which will eventually boost the manufacturing sector,” he said.
 
 Stressing on promotion of research and development activities even in SMEs,  , ex-president of CMIA and a leading industrialist said that the government should announce a good incentive to those who are working in R&D. “Most of the countries could progress at a rapid pace only because they invested in Research and Development. India should also follow the same path and encourage it. The Union Budget should send a strong message among the industrialists that the country needs innovation,” he said.
 
 “The government should also come up with concrete steps to promote industrialists who are keen on investing in foreign countries. South Korea, for instance, provides an effective platform to its industrialist to set up units in other countries,” he said.
 
 Ex-president of CMIA Ashish Garde said that the government should give top priority to medium, small and micro enterprises (MSME). “MSME sector is the backbone of the nation and hence, the government should come out with attractive schemes for its welfare. We are also looking at special financial schemes for the sector which should be in tune with the changing business environment. Besides, there should be enough encouragement for export oriented businesses,” he said. 
 
 In the meanwhile, Ajay Shah, president of the Aurangabad Jilha Vyapari Mahasang said that the Union finance minister should consider the interests of over 6 crore traders of the country and frame a policy for them. “The traders are in a bad shape since the government announced demonetisation. The country needs a specific internal trade policy for the benefit of the traders,” he said.
 
