Two days after Telangana Chief Minister   clarified that “Tollywood is not being targeted” in the SIT investigations into the drug racket, NDA’s Vice-Presidential candidate M Venkaiah Naidu sang a similar song in the city. Speaking at an anti-drug walk held at   on Sunday morning, the former Union Minister unequivocally declared: “It is wrong to propagate the notion that film personalities are solely responsible for the drug menace. It is not right on our part to malign the film industry for the same. Owing to the popularity that they enjoy among the public, film personalities, or even politicians for that matter, they become the talking point when their names crop up in such cases.”

 
 
 Stating that drug abuse is “an illness that has crept into the body of Indian society,” he added, “I believe cinema has a very important role to play in the fight against drugs. Cinema can make people think, pave the way for a drug-free future by changing our minds. A hero, heroine, music director or even writers can have a great positive influence on society by impacting our collective conscience through music or literature. So, I appeal to the film fraternity to highlight through cinema the ill-effects that drugs have. Similarly, the media also has a huge role to to play in this regard and must join hands with the whole society. Only then will we have a chance to recover from this disease (drug abuse).”
 
 The 68-year-old also had a word of advice for youngsters. “Edi, mundu edo aasakthi kaligistharu. Aa tablet esukunte, a dravyam teesukunte edo ekkadiko ekkadiko vellipothamani. Vellipotham, ekkadiko kadu akkadike vellipothamu,” he said, drawing a thunderous applause from thousands of city folk who attended the event. Loose translation: They might lure you saying that if you pop this tablet, you will be transported to another worldly realm. Yes, you will go, not into some magical realm, but into the land of the dead.
 
 Echoing similar sentiments, Telangana Excise Commisioner   said, “Our goal is to get to the root of drug menace to eradicate it completely from our society, and not to target any one particular segment of the society.”
 After the speech, the former Information and Broadcasting minister along with AP Health Minister Kamineni Srinivas Rao, BJP MLA  , RV Chandravadhan and office bearers of the   took a public vow to fight drug menace. Soon after, they released a bunch of baloons from the podium in front of KBR Park main gate to flag off the walk.
 Over 6,000 people from all walks of life — including thousands of school children, movie stars, politicians, college students, civil society members, film and television personalities, cops — who began trooping into the venue right from 6.30 am took part in the walk. Holding placards when the participants chanted “Say no to drugs” in unison, the whole of   and the rest of the city too resonated with the anti-drug sentiment. 
 
