BENGALURU: In mid-2015, she had WhatsApped her   to her then boyfriend. The same images triggered a series of traumatic events in the life of this 20-year old dental sciences student, who is now struggling to come out of an abusive marriage.

 The young woman has knocked on the doors of Vanitha Sahayavani (women's helpline) at the police commissioner's office, seeking divorce.
 
 Recently, high drama prevailed at the helpline office, where the couple is undergoing counselling. While the woman refused to return to her husband, her 30-year-old businessman-spouse threatened to post her nude images online or commit suicide if she didn't join him.
 
 The woman from a reputed family in east Bengaluru was only 18 when she had shared her nude pictures via   with her boyfriend. “The girl was head over heels in love with him. During their chats over WhatsApp, the girl had shared a few of her naked photographs upon his request as she trusted him blindly,“ said B S Saraswathi, senior counsellor at the centre, who is handling the case.
 
 The youth, however, forwarded the photographs to his best friend who, in turn, blackmailed the woman into a physical relationship with him.“The second youth further circulated the photographs through WhatsApp among his group of friends and the group started harassing her,“ the counsellor added.
 
 One of the recipients of the picture, a class 10 dropout, turned up before the woman, claiming to be her saviour. He brought to her notice the fact that her objectionable photographs were in circulation and also claimed to have beat up all the men who had received them and got them to delete the photographs.
 
 “Playing the hero card, the man expressed his love for her and she fell for it. Going against the wishes of her family, she eloped and married the man in mid-2016,“ said Rani Shetty, head of Vanitha Sahayavani, who is monitoring the case.
 
 The two got married and moved into a house in Yeshwantpur and the woman continued attending her dental school. However, in a few months, the man began abusing her physically and mentally. In her complaint, the woman pointed out that he tortured her in various ways, including forcing her to take bath in cold water during peak winter and also forcibly having sex with her by holding her captive and beating her mercilessly .
 
 Once the torture became unbearable, the girl escaped from his house in mid-July and took refuge at her parents' house. “Petrified to return to her husband, she sought help from Vanitha Sahayavani through her family as she did not want to pursue a police complaint in the matter,“ said Saraswathi.
 
 The man though sought police and legal assistance to take back home his young wife. But attempts to settle the matter through counselling sessions at the commissionerate only turned dramatic, with the man saying he'd kill himself by slitting his throat in the counselling room.While in one session he threatened to consume poison, claiming he was carrying the same in his bag, in another he said he'd jump from the seventh floor of the police headquarters.
 
 “He has even threatened to kill the girl during our sessions,“ said Saraswathi. The counselling is on.
 
 TIMES VIEW
 
 It pays to be extra cautious while sharing information on social media networks, for the chances of it being misused by unscrupulous persons are very high. Photographs of a sensitive nature are particularly prone to being shared in groups and they seem to acquire a life of their own after that. The threat of blackmail is ever present and the internet has a long memory. The fear of photographs landing in the wrong phones should ensure they are not shared indiscriminately. A little caution in navigating through social media networks will go a long way in preventing unnecessary trauma.
 
