Pune: A week after chief minister Devendra Fadnavis conducted a breakthrough meeting on the city’s garbage issue, the authorities in Pune Municipal Corporation ( ) on Monday said they have already begun drafting a comprehensive plan to resolve the mess.

 On May 7, Fadnavis had conducted a crucial meeting with residents of Uruli and Phursungi, over 23 days after they had stopped the dumping of the city’s garbage at a landfill site near the villages. 
 
 After the discussions, Fadnavis had announced that a comprehensive plan would be constituted within a month.
 
 PMC authorities said the plan is likely to be ready by next week. “About 50% work on the plan is done. After finalisation, it will be placed before party leaders and villagers for further suggestions,” said Suresh Jagtap, head of the PMC’s solid waste department.
 
 According to Jagtap, the plan will touch upon key issues like management of the city’s daily garbage, collection and transportation, probable locations for processing units, capacity enhancement of the existing units and garbage segregation. 
 
 The plan will also have suggestions on issues raised by villagers pertaining to capping and dumping of garbage at the landfill site.
 
 He said the administration has sought suggestions from experts and other government departments.
 
 Leader of house Shrinath Bhimale, said the plan will be discussed with all political parties before it is finalised as BJP does not want to bring politics into the garbage issue. The PMC will come out with a comprehensive plan to address the city’s garbage issue for the next 25 years, he said. 
 
 Pimpri Sandas villagers to agitate on May 19 
 
 Meanwhile, an all-party agitation has been called on May 19 on Pune-Ahmednagar Road at Kesnand Phata to protest against the shifting of a garbage depot to Pimpri Sandas village. 
 
 MLA Baburao Pacharane and other leaders have expressed their support to the agitation and strongly opposed the setting up of a garbage processing plant in Pimpri Sandas. 
 
 Pradip Kand, former chairman of Pune zilla parishad said the city should process its garbage within its limits. The government should not allow garbage dumping at Pimpri Sandas, he said. 
 
 
