NAGPUR:   not only defended well with the black pieces but posted a convincing victory in his second tournament of the Catalan   Circuit at Catalonia, Spain, on Monday.

 For the second time in as many days, the 50-year-old played aggressively and successfully took   (WIM)   in stride in their sixth round contest of the nine-day XL Open International Barbera del Valles chess tournament.
 
 With just three rounds remaining, city’s only International Master (IM) has 3.5 points in his kitty and is trying to maintain rating points.
 
 The 25th board battle saw the Mexican WIM opting for the Queens Pawn opening with her white pieces while Deshmukh converted the same into Kings Indian defence. Within 10 moves, the 16-year-old Fuentes went into attacking mode. In the 9th move she opted for the Ratch attack and Deshmukh sacrificed his Queens Side pawn to balance the position.
 
 At the 24th move, Fuentes offered Deshmukh to split the points but the LIC employee preferred to continue the game and emerged victorious after 48 moves. The game was played for around four hours.
 
 Explaining his yet another victory with the black pieces Deshmukh said, “I converted her d4 opening with the Kings Indian defence. In the 9th move she went for the Ratch attack and to deny her a Castle advantage, I sacrificed a pawn on my Queen’s side in the next move. And by the 14th move I got a comfortable position.”
 
 “Within three moves a positional error from my side gave her an option to attack my King side. Here again I sacrificed a pawn to put her under pressure as she had not castled and her King came at risk. With her King exposed she offered me a draw in the 24th move but I preferred to continue the game,” he added.
 
 On why he took so long to grab full point, Deshmukh said, “She started playing inaccurate moves and I just kept on replying her. Once she came under time pressure and lost her Rook, I started attacking and she resigned in the 48th move.”
 
 In the 7th round on Tuesday, Deshmukh will start with the white pieces against higher seed and experienced Fide Master (FM) Galvan Jesus of Peru on the 17th board.
 
 
