PUNE:   was among those whose motorcycle was gutted in Sunday's incident in which a drunken man set fire to 30 vehicles.

 In the incident, a threewheeler tempo pickup, 27 motorcycles and two bicycles were destroyed.
 
 Add to their woes, few vehicles that were destroyed had insurance cover.
 
 The police are still ascertaining the motive, but Kadam believes the suspect,   (25) aka Nilesh, was out to steal fuel from the parked vehicles. Kadam told TOI that he and a few others had checked the fuel pipes of other vehicles and found them tampered with. “Patil may have tried to steal petrol, and then set the vehicles on fire,“ Kadam said.
 
 Kadam further added that the area where he lives -Janata Vasahat slums -is plagued by fuel thefts. “We do not have proper parking space here. Nor can we can park out vehicles in front of our houses. Because of this, we park vehicles along the main road,“ Kadam said, “Miscreants take advantage of this and steal petrol.“
 
 A crime branch officer admitted fuel thefts were a menace. “The Janata Vasahat residents never fill petrol in their vehicles' tanks while returning home at night. This was a blessing. Had the fuel tanks been full on Sunday morning, the fire could have engulfed a higher number of vehicles,“ the officer said.
 
 How he was held
 
 Sub-inspector Anil Dap hal of Dattawadi police, who is probing the case, said the suspect was arrested on a tipoff. Patil stays on Lane No. 38, which was located exactly opposite the public toilet, which was the crime scene. “A few witnesses had seen Patil near the spot minutes before the fire broke out,“ Daphal said.
 
 A police team led by se nior inspector Anil Patil and comprising constables Anil More,   and  , tracked Patil down to near the vicinity of his home and nabbed him.“During questioning, Patil confessed that he had set the vehicles on fire,“ Daphal said. According to Daphal, Pa til who works at a private company , got his salary on Saturday. “He had spent his salary on liquor and returned home drunk in the early hours of Sunday. We will question him further after getting police custody from the court,“ Daphal said.
 
