Margao: One may be forgiven for deciphering LOC as the line of control instead of Local Organising Committee at the   in Fatorda, here, on Sunday.
 
  A team of delegates arrived at the Nehru Stadium, Fatorda, on Sunday to check out facilities for the   in the country from October 6 to 28. It included representatives of three of four nations to play group C in Goa – Germany, Guinea and Costa Rica with Iran chosing not to attend.
  
  But the   was carried out by shielding the delegates from media-persons who were not allowed interaction of any sort.
  
  Nimble-footed and agile as any of the young defenders to take the pitch in three month’s time, the LOC staff denied eager reporters any sound byte from a slightly bemused team of delegates.
  
  Why, the LOC would even do the referees proud, strictly maintaining a distance of not just 10 yards but a much as 30 as photographers took their shots!
  
  So, one had to go by visual ‘bytes’ and the smiling visages strongly suggested that the delegates from Germany, Guinea and Costa Rica were pleased with the facilities even if the pleasant weather had something to do with it.
  
  According to a staffer of the LOC, the delegates did not wish to speak to the media, preferring to concentrate on their understandably crucial task.
  
  The scope of inspection included the all-important pitch of play, the changing rooms, training pitches all around the state, medical facilities, transportation and accommodation.
  
  U-17 Fifa World Cup tournament director Javier Ceppi of Chile elaborated on the inspection. “It is for the first time that teams go to the venues. They see the hotels where they will be staying along with the stadiums and training sites to make sure all is in order and as per requirement. They try to get acquainted with the conditions of their venue in terms of distances, weather, type of grass on the field of play etc, to see if they can replicate those in preparation,” Ceppi said in a statement to The Times of India.
  
  The Chilean explained the absence of an Iranian delegation, saying, “Iran had already been in Goa for the AFC U-16 Championship (last year), so they are well aware of all the facilities, the distances etc. and they were quite confident on their knowledge of Goa.”
  
  However, there was no word on Brazil and Niger, who are scheduled to play a last-round simultaneous group D match in Goa although a source believed that either team would fly in early to check out the facilities.
  
  A whirlwind tour of the training sites then took the delegates to  , Utorda, Bambolim and Tilak Maidan, Vasco, before their scheduled departure out of Goa the very evening.
  
  The 24-nation U-17 World Cup will be played over six groups and five other venues including Kolkata, New Delhi, Mumbai, Guwahati and Kochi.
  
  
  
