After almost a decade,   kicked off a five-day meet-and-greet session with his fans on Monday at Raghavendra Hall, which he owns, in Kodambakkam. The 66-year-old megastar had discontinued the ritual after casualties in a 1998 accident and, till 2008, only met them on his birthday. During the interactions, Rajini confirmed that he will begin shooting for Pa Ranjith's as-yet-untitled Tamil project from May 28. And after   Bachchan, Deepika Padukone,   and Radhika Apte,   will be wooed by the demi-god in the action-romance.

  
  
 “The makers were looking for someone with a strong screen presence as it's a performance oriented role. Huma will play Rajinikanth's love interest. She is really excited. They start shooting in Mumbai from May 28 and Huma will start prep soon,“ informs a source. Dhanush, who is married to Rajini's daughter Aishwarya, is the film's producer.
 
 Huma was last seen opposite Akshay Kumar in 'Jolly LLB 2'. Up next is  's IndoBrit historical, 'Viceroy's House', and 'Dobaara: See Your Evil', with brother Saqib Saleem, an official adaptation of the 2013 US horror film 'Oculus'.
 
 Shankar's '2.0' with Rajinikanth and Akshay Kumar unveils on Republic Day 2018. Speculations are rife that the South supremo is gearing up to enter politics but he left everyone guessing with a cryptic response, "What I will be tomorrow is in the hands of God."
 
 He added that if circumstances force him to take the plunge, “I will not allow people who want to make money near me“, pointing out that in some matters the people of Tamil Nadu are naive.“Twenty-one years ago, they elected a coalition backed by me to power,“ he recalled his support to DMK-led alliance against J Jayalalithaa in 1996 and admitted it was a disaster to have made his political leanings public because politicians tried to misuse his name, forcing him to clarify his stand to his fans. Reacting to criticism that he couldn't take a firm decision and his utterances were a ploy for box office hits, he asserted, “With God's blessings and your love there is no need for me to resort to such devices.“
 
 The fans, he reasoned, will like a movie only if it's good. If it fails to live up to their expectations, no acrobatics can save it. “I will continue to give good movies,“ he promised.
 
 With inputs from Gladwin Emmanuel
 
 
  
  
 
 
