NAGPUR: Gangster turned real estate dealer   is trying to enter full-time politics. He was seeking a   for his wife Neha after the party gave her membership and also accepted her form for the upcoming municipal elections. However, Ambekar withdrew Neha’s form at the last moment “on the advice of a party leader”.

 BJP has started interviews of party leaders and workers who submitted forms seeking tickets from January 6. Interviews of aspirants from ward 21, 22 and 23 were conducted on Tuesday. The list of aspirants from ward 22 included the name of Santosh’s spouse. She had sought a ticket from an open seat. However, she did not turn up for the interview.
 
 Ambekar told TOI she will not be contesting the election. “Citizens of our area encouraged Neha to seek a   ticket so we submitted the form. I am doing my own business and wish to serve the society,” he said.
 
 Ambekar is close to many BJP leaders. He had openly helped BJP legislators in the last assembly elections. Therefore, he was hoping to get a BJP ticket atleast for his wife.
 
 On condition of anonymity, one of the BJP legislators said some BJP leaders advised Ambekar not to seek a ticket as it will create controversy for the party. “Ambekar will continue seeking a BJP ticket. Many persons with criminal record changed after becoming elected representatives. Every person has a right to rehabilitate, and so has Ambekar,” he said.
 
 It is said that BJP asked Ambekar to wait and watch since the Sangh Building falls in ward no 22. “Ambekar may seek a BSP ticket for his wife if the BJP denies a ticket,” a source said.
 
 Ambekar is in the same situation as city’s most notorious goon — Shamsher Khan — who sought a   ticket in 2007 municipal elections. He was denied a ticket but went on to contest the election unsuccessfully as an independent candidate.
 
 Interestingly, gangster-turned-politician Anil Dhawade, also a sitting BJP corporator, submitted a form from the same ward. Dhawade is sure to get a ticket since he has changed tremendously in last five years. He has no criminal case since he became corporator in 2012.
 
 Sources also said Ambekar himself may contest the election as an independent candidate if he is left with no choice.
 
 However, the BJP giving party membership to Neha too has created some controversy. As per BJP norms, an individual has to seek form by submitting Rs500 fees. Then, the form is accepted only if he/she is a member of the party. It is very clear from the list of aspirants that BJP accepted Neha’s form after giving her party membership.
 
 
