Prachi Arya

 Actor  , known for his roles in the popular show ' ' and also in films 'Machhli Jal Ki Rani Hai' and 'Lakshya', was in Lucknow on Saturday to celebrate Dussehra. Accompanying him on this promotional trip to the city was his co-star from the show Saam Daam Dand Bhed,  . The duo participated in the   celebrations at the  . "{Maine kabhi apni life mein itna bada   nahi dekha," said Bhanu who was awestruck by the huge effigy of Ravan made at the venue. "121 feet ka Ravan maine kabhi nahi dekha and the best part was the theme related to social evils that they chose for this year of eradication of female foeticide. That was an eye opener," said Sonal.
 Well, it wasn't just the Ravan who caught these actors’ attention. "I had heard a lot about the Ramleela of Lucknow. I was told that it is the best, that's why I wanted to see it. Since I have a background of theatre, having passed out from National School Of Drama, I could easily relate to the actors portraying these exalted characters on screen. And true to what I had heard,   did prove to be the best I have seen," said an excited Bhanu.
 The actors were also part of the activity Burn Your Fear where the viewers were asked to write their biggest fear on a chit of paper which was later burnt along with the Ravan. "My biggest fear is to be away from my family," said Uday, adding, "I have always been with my family on Dussehra, this is the first time that I am away from them. So losing my loved ones and my family is my biggest fear, which I am trying overcome."
 Remembering his childhood days and narrating his experience of this festive month, the actor said, "Since I hail from Jammu, so every year during Dussehra, my family and I used to go to several places to see Ravan Dahan in Jammu. It used to be great fun."
 Being a Maharastrian, Ravan Dahan was a unique experience for Sonal. "I have never witnessed such celebrations in Mumbai. Here, people were so excited that they even surrounded our car not wanting us to leave the venue. Woh hamari gaadi ke kaanch par maar rahe thay just for a photograph," she said, adding, “Raat mein we went to Aminabad for the   where people recognized us as we were in our show attire and surrounded us for selfies and autographs. This was the first time when we saw such a huge crowd."
 — Prachi Arya
 
 
