HYDERABAD: The   (TTD) is faced with the daunting task of quarantining cows suffering from the highly contagious zoonotic disease, Brucellosis. About a dozen cows have been diagnosed with Brucellosis at   (cow protection farm) in the temple town of Tirupati. They have been kept in isolation to prevent the spread of Brucellosis to other animals in the TTD Gosala, and human beings visiting the farm.

 Brucellosis, a neglected but major health issue in humans and animals, causes severe economic loss in case of animal infection. It causes insomnia, muscle pain, night sweat, fatigue, and weight loss in infected human beings. It also triggers abortion in cattle and in women, particularly if they are in early stages of pregnancy .The disease is transmitted between animals and from animals to humans. However, there are only a few cases of transmission of Brucellosis between humans.
 
 According to veterinarians, there is no known medicine to cure this bacterial disease, except symptomatic treatment. There is a vaccine to prevent Brucellosis, but it needs to be administered in calves within six months of birth. Since most of the animals donated to the TTD are adult, the temple body cannot vaccinate them.However, the TTD ensures that the calves born in its Gosala are free of Brucellosis, said Dr DN Raju, TTD farm manager.
 
 Though Brucellosis is enzootic in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, the recent cases of animal and human cases in Kolar district of Karnataka have put veterinary authorities in neighbouring Chittoor district on a high alert. “We have about 3900 cows. But only nine have been diagnosed with Brucellosis. Every precaution is taken to ensure that the disease does not spread,“ Dr Ra ju said, adding that vaccination is a risky process as there is danger of healthy animals and humans being infected by the vaccine, if not handled properly . Sri Venkateswara Gosamrakshana Sala director   said Brucellosis is not present in the animals bred at the TTD Goshala. The problem is with the donated animals. People from Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Rajasthan,  , apart from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana donate animals to the TTD.“Brucellosis subsides as the stress level in animals come down. Diagnosis is a problem as there are many false positive and false negative lab reports,“ he said.
 
