As   appeared headed for a vertical split, its election symbol 'bicycle' could be the first casualty, forcing the two factions-led by CM Akhilesh Yadav and his father Mulayam Singh Yadav — to contest the coming assembly polls on separate symbols.

 After Sunday's convention of the Akhilesh faction during which the CM was elected the party chief, all eyes are now fixated on the national executive called by Mulayam on January 5 when it may be finally known whether the two sides go for a split down the middle.
 
 With the Election Commission set to announce poll dates this week, both factions are approaching the poll panel as early as Monday to lay claim to the party's `bicycle' symbol, on which Akhilesh rode to power with thumping majority in 2012. If the Election Commission freezes the symbol, neither side .
 
 According to former Chief Election Commissioner N Gopalaswami, the EC, while dealing with conflicting claims from two factions staking claim to the `bicycle' symbol, may end up allowing it to neither. Given that   may be announced any day now, the EC is faced with a peculiar situation. In the normal course, the Commission would decide on the issue after hearing claims of both factions.
 
 However, given that there is virtually no time before UP polls, the best course of action for the EC may be to freeze the `bicycle' symbol and ask the two factions to contest on a new set of sym bols. Once the elections are over, the EC may adjudicate as to which of the two factions should retain the `bicycle' poll symbol,“ former Chief Election Commissioner N Gopalaswami told TOI.
 
 “The Election Commission has certain criteria about party symbols...but if the commission is not able to decide, it can freeze the   and allot other symbols to both the factions,“ said PDT Achary , ex-secretary general of Lok Sabha. Achary said in view of the short window before the assembly polls, it will be difficult for the EC to decide. “Freezing of the SP symbol is possible.“
 
 “We shall approach the EC as Akhilesh Yadav has emerged our president as per norms and party under him is united,“ said an SP leader soon after Sunday's meeting in Lucknow. Former secretary general of Lok Sabha Subhash Kashyap said if dispute over symbol is brought to the EC, it takes decision on facts and documents. “If EC finds it difficult to decide, it can freeze the symbol and allot both the factions two different symbols to contest.“
 
 There is more likelihood of freezing of the SP symbol as EC organises awareness campaigns after announce ment of polls for which the party symbols are required.
 
 There are certain Election Commission norms about allotting election symbol to a political party but in case of disputes, precedence determines the fate of the claims.
 
 In 1969, Indira Gandhi formed a party of her own, named Congress (R). She tried to use the party's symbol--bullocks--for her new party but due to an appeal from Congress (O), she was deprived of the traditional symbol.
 
 Indira finally chose “cow and calf “. After conflict within the Congress post-Emergency , Indira once again split the Congress and floated Congress (I) with another symbol of “hand“.
 
