GURUGRAM: A number of city-based schools have taken up the cudgels to safeguard the  , sensitising their students to the need for protecting this green zone that plays a key role in maintaining ecological balance in Gurgaon and its surrounding areas.

 MatriKiran School (Sohna road), Suncity World School (Sector 54) and Lancers International School (DLF-5), among others, are integrating environmental protection as a topic with their existing syllabuses and adopting new extracurricular activities with focus on the Aravalis to spread awareness about its flora and fauna. They organise expeditions to the   hills, eco-adventure camps at the foothills, and hold story-telling sessions on various aspects of   for their students.
 
 The students are also encouraged to plant on their campus saplings of species, like anthocephalus, bombax ceiba, anogeissus pendula, ficus glomerata and acacia nilotica, among others, which are largely found in the Aravalis. 
 
 “This is high time that the children knew about the importance of environment, particularly the Aravali hills. Also, it is our responsibility to make our children ready for the future, when protecting the city’s environment will become all the more important. So, we are not only making the Aravalis a part of the curriculum but also integrating environment with different subjects while teaching,” said Jyoti Guha, principal, MatriKiran School.
 
 Rupa Chakravarty, principal, Suncity World School, echoed Guha, and stressed on the need to teach children about environment right from the early days of their life. 
 
 Rohit Mann, director, Lancers International School, said the school recently organised a visit to Aravali Biodiversity Park. “The students were amazed to see the rich biodiversity in such a close proximity,” he claimed.
 
 The trips are showing results too. “We hardly have any trees and water bodies in our surroundings. We must protect the Aravali forests and its water bodies. Construction activities should be stopped there,” said Abhidi (10), a student of MatriKiran.
 
 
