PATNA: Bihar finance minister   on Monday said he would present a “good budget” to help the state become one of the country’s developed states, financial constraints notwithstanding.

 He was addressing representatives of agriculture and allied activities, weavers and handicrafts as well as   (BIA) functionaries at Adhiveshan Bhawan here as part of his pre-budget exercise. The budget session of the state legislature is slated to open on February 23.
 
 The Centre has changed the funding pattern of 66 centrally sponsored schemes, as a result of which the state is “enormously burdened”, Siddiqui said, adding the state’s own financial resources are also limited. “The spend for centrally sponsored schemes used to be initially shared by the Centre and states in 90:10 ratio. It kept on reducing over the years and used to be 60:40 till a couple of years back. Now it has come down to 50:50,” he said.
 
 Siddiqui was accompanied by principal secretary (finance) Ravi Mitttal. The BIA representatives included former president S P Sinha. State weavers’ commission member Alim Ansari, district industries centre- Bhagalpur manager N K Jha and senior college teacher from Munger Vijay Kumar Choudhary made their suggestions, demanding increased budgetary allotments for the development of weavers and education sectors. 
 
 The BIA demanded early commissioning of a new bridge across the Ganga, as the Mahatma Gandhi Setu (Patna) would be partially closed for repair. The BIA also pitched for acquisition of 1,000 acres of land to establish a new industrial park at or around Masaurhi (Patna). Besides, it stressed on accelerated expansion of urban space and infrastructure at Patna.
 
 Mittal said the recommendations made by the participants at the pre-budget exercise would be forwarded to the departments concerned and a meeting would also be held with them.
 
 “Not every recommendation can be accommodated in the 2017-18  , but those which are left out would be attended to through policy measures, or accommodated in the subsequent budgets,” Mittal said. 
 
 
