MUMBAI: At least 542 people lost their lives in accidents on the   in 2015, which is more than 10 deaths on an average every week. Expressways and state highways connecting the city reported 32 and 37 deaths, according to a   (NCRB) report. 

 Experts and investigators say most fatal accidents happened due to violation of traffic rules. 
 
 The NCRB report shows a 36.6% increase in accidents (2,454 cases, which is over 47 accidents a week) on internal roads in 2015 compared to 2014 (1,796 cases). The accidents in 2015 left 2,254 people injured, up from 1,440 the previous year. According to the report, there were 464 deaths in accidents on the internal roads in 2014. 
 
 Investigators say more lane discipline by motorists and   with stringent action by law enforcement agencies can reduce accidents. People need to be more sensitive towards each other, an investigator said adding, “Certain times, the rules require force to be followed. This should not be the case and it should come from within and people should be sensitive towards fellow citizens.”
 
 A senior traffic police officer said the main roads are narrow and in poor condition, with most of them lacking overpasses for intersecting roads. They are used for sleeping and walking and somewhere down the lane serve as “temporary shops”. Vendors often encroach upon streets and block sidewalks, restricting traffic movement. “In the last 50 years, India's vehicle population has grown 170 times while the road infrastructure has expanded only nine times. While roads are widened to allow the increase in vehicle population, side-walks for pedestrians have shrunk,” the officer said.
 
 Joint commissioner of police (Traffic)   said introduction of latest technology such as digital breathalysers and speed cameras would help in preventing accidents. “Violators are caught during special drives. Even the 60 speed cameras (being installed) with stern action will deter those who are found violating traffic rules,” Bharambe said.
 
 Additional director general of police (Prisons)  , who was earlier joint commissioner (Mumbai Traffic), said a study has shown that pedestrians are the main victims of road accidents, followed by two-wheeler riders. “Several countries have proper traffic system and guidelines, whichare also followed properly both by pedestrians and motorists. In India, such a system is not up to the mark. There are places where there is no proper footpath. Even pedestrians are to blame many a time because they do not use the footbridge while crossing highways or busy roads. Even motorists hardly think of stopping at signals during late hours,” he said.
 
  said the strong and pervasive drive by the Mumbai police against drunken driving has produced good results. Further, the vehicles now are technologically superior and safer, he said, but quickly added that the initiatives, however, need to be further intensified. “In addition, the move to install high-security number plates and security cameras should be made free from red tape. Once traffic checking gets automated, the offences of signal jumping, driving without helmet and rash driving will come down,” Singh added.
 
 
