Cuddalore:   (NLC) India Limited has proposed to enhance power generation at its Neyveli complex by 2,640MW, said chairman and managing director Sarat Kumar Acharya. 

 Addressing the Republic Day celebrations, Acharya said the company’s project to increase lignite-based power generation by 1,320MW (two units of 660MW) has reached the advanced stages of completion. He said the company has also proposed to add another 1,320MW (two units of 660MW) in the second phase at Neyveli.
 
 He said the company has awarded contracts for enhancing coal-based power generation by another 1,980MW through its joint venture Neyveli Uttar Pradesh Power Limited (NUPPL) at Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh and for enhancing lignite-based power generation by another 500MW through Barsingsar expansion and Bithnok green field project in Rajasthan.
 
 “With the government allotting 20.5 metric tonne of coal per annum from Talabira mine blocks in Odisha, we have taken up a plan of 4,000MW capacity addition in coal-based power generation in two phases,” he said.
 
 On renewable energy, he said the company has launched construction work for a 130MW solar power plant at the Neyveli complex. “We are also in the process of setting up solar installations to the tune of 500MW in Tamil Nadu and 250MW in Odisha,” he said.
 
 He said the company has proposed to set up solar installations in Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra to generate power to the tune of 1,000MW each. He said the company has proposed to set up a 200MW wind power generating unit in Tamil Nadu. Acharya announced that the post-retirement medical assistance for the retired employees of the company has been enhanced to Rs 17,000 per annum in addition to insurance coverage extended for hospitalisation. He also announced that the company has proposed to establish a retiring home at Neyveli township for its employees.
 
 Founder of Art of Living foundation, Sri Sri Ravi Shankar, while complimenting the company for adopting green initiatives, outlined the significance of yoga, meditation, physical exercises, games and sports in maintaining inner and physical strength.
 
 
