Mangaluru: Konkani litterateur   (CGS Thakode), artist   from Sirsi and folk expert Clara Anthon Siddi of Yallapura have been chosen for Karnataka Konkani Sahitya Academy Honourary Award 2016.

 Academy chairman Ronald S A Castelino announcing the names of award winners said that the honourary awards and book awards will be distributed at the valedictory of ‘Konkani Lokotsav – 2017 at the Town Hall on February 12.
 
 Authors, who bagged Konkani Book Awards, are Sr B S Agnesia Frank, author of ‘Amrut Thujya Hathim’, Umesh Nayak, author of ‘Sri Srinivasa Kalyanam’ and   for translating ‘Kannadachyo Thees Kaniyo’. While the honorary award will have cash prizes of Rs 50,000, those who bagged the book awards will receive Rs 25,000 each. Chief minister Siddaramaiah and Kannada and culture minister Umashree will present awards to the recipients, Castelino said.
 
 Academy chairman Castelino said Konkani, which has been recognized under the Schedule VIII of the Constitution, is a very influential language in Gujarat, Maharashtra, Goa, Karnataka and Kerala. In Karnataka, nearly 41 communities have been using Konkani as their mother tongue. To project the Konkani culture of unity in diversity, Konkani Lokotsav 2017, a national level Konkani literary–cultural festival is being organized in Mangaluru from February 10 to 12. It will be a convention of 41 Konkani speaking communities that will showcase various cultural, traditional and literary programmes, he said.
 
 On February 10, children and women’s festival will be held as part of Lokotsav. Minister for forest, environment and ecology B Ramanath Rai will inaugurate the festival while Mangaluru city South MLA J R Lobo will preside. On February 11, ‘Yuvajanotsava’ will be held for youths. R V Deshpande, minister for large and medium industries, will preside over the programme. A procession showcasing Konkani folk arts and culture will be carried out from the   in Balmatta to the Town Hall on the same day. Meanwhile, on February 12, ‘Samastha Konkanigara Utsava’ will be held to showcase the literary and cultural talent of Konkani speaking communities, he said.
 
