MUMBAI: India Inc has been largely compliant in adhering to a wide gamut of corporate and securities laws, as also allied industry-specific laws, according to an analysis of secretarial audit reports of the S&P   500 companies for FY 2015-16.

 From the basket of BSE 500 companies which were analysed, 480 companies were required to undertake secretarial audit for the year ended March 31, 2016 (the remaining were banking companies who do not have to undertake such audit). Of these, only 93 companies (or 19%), as compared to 28% in the previous year, had qualified secretarial audit reports, according to a report released on Thursday by CimplyFive, a research and tech-solution company operating in the corporate laws space. A qualification denotes non-compliance with the prescribed regulations.
 
 Suresh Senapaty, Chairman of CimplyFive, said “Compared to FY 2014-2015 which was the first year where secretarial audit was mandated, in FY 2015-16 the clean reports increased by 9% from 72% to 81%. This trend indicates substantial improvement in compliance.”
 
 Secretarial audit, is mandatory for all listed companies and other companies having a paid up share capital of Rs. 50 crore or more or a turnover of Rs. 250 crore or more.
 
  Matters related to non-appointment of independent directors, improper composition of the board of directors or committees, non-compliance with the requirement to appoint women directors and also delay in filing of the forms with the   (MCA) dominated the list of secretarial audit qualifications.
 
 Secretarial audit, which is carried out by company secretaries requires the auditor to state compliance with all laws as may be applicable to the company. Variances in the ambit of laws covered by such audit do arise.
 
 For the second year running,   took the top spot for listing 230 mandates that they comply with. BASF with 92 and Geometric at 91 ranked second and third, in the list of companies that had the largest mandate for secretarial audit. There were no secretarial audit qualifications in the reports of these three companies.
 
 
