LUCKNOW: Aimed at promoting cow conservation, an agenda close to the hearts of RSS and BJP, the UP government has decided to package and sell   like it has been selling buffalo milk and  . The   is planning to launch the new line of products on September 25, RSS and the BJP ideologue Pt Deen Dayal Upadhayay’s 100th birth anniversary, which will be celebrated by Centre and state governments this year.

 In a two-pronged strategy, UP government aims to double the farmers’ income and ensure cow conservation, said state minister for dairy development Laxmi Narain Chaudhary. He added that cow milk is available at Rs 22 per litre while buffalo milk is sold at Rs 42 per litre. Scientifically, cow milk is rated as best after mother’s feed for the newborn, said Chaudhary and added that if the Pradeshik Cooperative Dairy Federation ( ) is able to maintain the demand and supply of cow milk, farmers would get better price for selling milk to the federation.
 
 “If cow milk demand is increases, some more units can come up,” said the minister. At the moment, dairy industry in UP is in a poor state, with only 2 lakh litre being produced per day while the government’s 10 units, which are worth Rs 1,200 crore, have capacity of 4 lakh litres each. Blaming previous governments for the sorry state, the minister said against requirement of 550 supervisors, PCDF has only 35 and dairy department is running at a loss of Rs 400 crore with a debt burden of Rs 1,200 crore. 
 
 To bridge the gap, the government has decided to opt for outsourcing and an agency had been hired by the Akhilesh-led   government, said the minister. “UP government has invited experts from the National Dairy Development Board to to hold campus interviews and recruit workers,” the minister said. 
 
 “Of the 10 cow milk units, the one at Kannauj is expected to be complete as per agreement by November but we have requested them to complete it by September so that the scheme may be launched and this unit would process 50,000 litres cow milk everyday,” said Chaudhary. 
 
 
