BENGALURU: Karnataka is staring at a  , with water levels in reservoirs plunging to a quarter of their storage capacity and the supply of coal for thermal power stations becoming scarce.
With election year ahead, the Congress government has decided to take all steps to preempt power on account of water or coal shortage. After meeting chief minister Siddaramaiah and finance department officials, energy minister DK Shivakumar told reporters that the state has decided to call for short-term tenders (of nine months) to ensure there's no disruption in power situation till next summer.
 
 “We are calling for 1,000-MW short-term tenders. We assure every farmer and in dustry that there'll be no disruption,“ he said.
 
 Kumar said the government is still hoping for a good monsoon and this was only a contingency plan. Last year too, we had called for shortand medium term tenders. Once we had sufficient water, the medium-term tenders were cancelled,“ he added.
 
 The minister said there is a massive shortage of coal.He said the litigation over   has squeezed coal supply to thermal power plants.
 
 “Although the situation is grim, we've hope as the Centre has allocated us a coal block at 100km from KPCL-owned Godhna   in Chhattisgarh. The Centre has also given us the leeway to use this coal block for any thermal plant we wish. But it will take time to develop,“ he said. The minister said the government was aware of the acute demand which is touching above 9,000MW during peak hours. Project won't stop: DKS The state government has made its stance clear on the controversial Mekedatu hydroelectric project along river Cauvery .Energy minister DK Shivakumar said: “There is no question of dropping the project. The project is being opposed by the   government for political gains. There is no obstruction to the flow of water and neither is there any activity to store water.“
 
 He said the Karnataka government has also scaled down the capacity of Mekedatu project from 300-odd MW to 200MW. “We have also brought down the cost to less than Rs 1,000 crore. This we have done to ensure there's no need to take it to the Centre or the river-sharing tribunals for approvals,“ he added.
 
