NEW DELHI: Kerala's Left Front government on Monday informed the Supreme Court that it has taken a policy decision to open   zoos in all 14 districts to tackle the alarming situation created by ferocious strays in the state. 

 Appearing for the state, senior advocate V Giri informed a bench of Justices Dipak Misra and M M Shantanagoudar that the government has framed a policy which requires each district panchayat to acquire 2-3 acres of agricultural land. "The land will be fenced to create stray dog rehabilitation zoos," he said.
 
 The Centre, the Animal Welfare Board and NGOs opposed opening dog zoos and said better results in checking rising population of stray dogs would be achieved if the state government implemented the Animal Birth Control (Dogs) Rules to sterilise the canines. But the state said it was not in favour of implementing the central rules and that it had jurisdiction and power to take a policy decision to create dog zoos.
 
 At a time when many states are creating shelters for stray cows, the Kerala government said its policy was aimed at creating shelters for stray dogs. However, it did not offer any comment on the growing impatience among counsel for victims for immediate culling of ferocious strays. 
 
 The bench said it would decide the legal framework suited for the purpose of curbing increase in the number of stray dogs on September 15 but asked the state to take all possible measures to protect citizens from dog bites. The court was informed that HCs of Kerala, Delhi, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Allahabad had ruled in favour of implementation of ABC Rules but the HCs of Karnataka and Bombay had held that local laws would prevail over the central law.
 
 Even while fighting hard for dog shelters, the state government was on difficult grounds when it came to granting compensation to victims of dog bites. The Sree Jagan Committee, set up by the SC to determine compensation for victims, through advocate Gaurav Agrawal informed the court that it had so far received 752 claims and adjudicated 154 of them. "But the state has so far paid compensation to only 18 who were declared eligible," he said.
 
 The bench took umbrage at the poor rate of compensating victims and asked the state to file a chart in four weeks detailing the number of cases which have been declared by the committee as eligible for compensation and the reason why it has not paid many of them promptly.
 
 Justices Misra and Shantanagoudar ordered the Kerala government "to pay the compensation determined by the committee if it agreed with the amount and if it had any objections, it will bring it to the notice of the Supreme Court. The high court will not entertain any plea relating to dispute over payment of compensation".
 
 Appearing for a dog bite victim, advocate V K Biju said the Kerala government was being insensitive to the menace of stray dogs, which have so far attacked 1.16 lakh people and killed 20 since April last year.
 
 
