NAGPUR: Having to shell out over Rs 34,000 crore to clear farmers’ loans, the   government is looking for some easy payment options from the banks, which include paying them in instalments.

 Banks will have to be paid from state funds so that the farmers do not have pay their loans. “Discussions are under way with the banks. An offer to reimburse the banks in instalments is one of the options to be considered,” state’s finance minister   told  .
 
 “A substantial amount will have to be shelled out for the waiver. The state government also wants to ensure that the taxpayers funds are carefully used and, at the same time, the farmers’ loans are also waived,” he added.
 
 The government is also looking at other measures like a concession in interest payable on loans, issuance of bonds, apart from payment in instalments.
 
 “If the amount is split into instalments, it would be indeed comfortable for the government. Suppose, if the banks allow as much as 10 instalments, then there would be hardly any impact. But if it is split into four for example, the resources may be strained a bit. A mid way is being explored,” said the minister. 
 
 Mungantiwar added that, in any case, waiver is the most favourable option for banks, even if the state pays in instalments. The banks may not have been able to recover the amounts in normal course. Now with the state government taking over, there is an assurance of repayment at least. He hoped that the banks would agree to the proposals and come up with a formula on easy payment terms.
 
 The minster said it may not be easy for the government to reimburse the bank in one go. The last bailout package was only Rs 7,000 only and the bill could be comfortably footed. However, this is one of biggest waivers and the state will have to consider different options.
 
 On the final notification to be issued on the extended scheme, which covers defaults since 2009, he said a proper scrutiny will have to be done first. A digital platform will have to be set up to ensure that the only the genuine farmers are benefited and the scheme is not misused. 
 
 He stressed that in any case, the waiver will not have any impact on the state’s resources. “I wonder why there is so much hue and cry if the amount is being spent for the farmers. No concern was raised when the seventh pay commission was implemented leading to a bigger drain on the resources,” said Mungantiwar.
 
