KOLHAPUR:   has been included in the University Grants Commissions ( ) colleges with potential excellence ( ) scheme.

 According to college authorities they received a letter last week, from the UGC, informing them about the news.
 
 Principal S   told TOI, “The UGC had recommended our college last year however due to a few formalities being incomplete it announced our inclusion this year. This is our second tenure in the CPE. In the letter, we have been told that Rs 1 crore has been sanctioned for the development of the college.”
 
 He said the college was selected for the first phase of CPE, back in 2010 and the tenure of that scheme ended in 2015.
 
 “The expert committee of UGC reviewed the college in May 2016, for being recommended to the next phase. We were sure that our accomplishments will get us through the review,” he said.
 
 He said that with this inclusion in the CPE, the college is now eligible for the academic and administrative development fund of Rs 1 crore under CPE.
 
 The UGC circular about the CPE scheme stated, ‘This scheme is to identify colleges which have attained high standards in teaching, research and extension activities and hold promise of excellence. A college selected under the CPE scheme is provided substantial funds to improve and strengthen its infrastructure that would help it attain higher academic standards.
 
 According to the circular, the objectives of the scheme are to define and manage the processes included in the design, development, and delivery of the chosen academic programmes. Apart from it to strengthen the academic and physical infrastructure for achieving excellence in teaching, research and outreach programmes that would be comparable to global standards.
 
 To be included in the scheme, the institute has to ensure it follows all the pre-requisites set by UGC, such as— the college should be more than 10 years old and should have secured a minimum B grade from the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC).
 
 Interestingly, last year as many as 28 colleges from the state including three from Kolhapur division were selected for the CPE. These colleges had appeared before the UGC committee with a presentation in the last week of January 2016.
 
