HYDERABAD: Harmful bacteria that are tolerant to   and resistant to a number of highly   have been discovered from meat sold in city markets. Some of these bacteria have learnt to survive in temperatures as high as 70 degrees Celsius.

 Even powerful drugs like Kanamycin, which is used for treatment of severe bacterial infections including chronic cases of tuberculosis, are unable to kill certain types of bacteria isolated from meat samples in retail mutton and chicken shops. Researchers have also isolated heat-tolerant Escheri chia coli from knives, butcher's blocks, cutting and chopping tables and weighing scales.Even the water used in meat shops is contaminated by pathogens. A team of researchers from the College of Veterinary Science, Korutla, collected as many as 120 samples from a number of retail meat shops and analysed them for food-borne bacteria.
 
 They found that 6.67 per cent of the samples had Salmonella bacteria, 32.5 per cent were contaminated by E coli bacteria that has developed resistance to heat and antibiotics, and 38.33 per cent of samples showed the presence of Staphylococcus aureus. Further analysis of the samples revealed that E coli had developed resistance to drugs like Ampicillin, Naldixic acid and Gentamicin, while Staphylococcus aureus bacteria was not affected by medicines including Nitrofurontaine, Ampicillin and Norfloxicin. Some of the Staphylococcus bacteria showed resistance to even Kanamycin. Salmonella species were resistant to ampicillin, gentamycin and tetracycline.
 
 The team, which published its finding in the recent issue of the   (IJAR), suggested that health officials analyse meat and poultry samples from retail shops for foodborne bacterial contamination, warning that public health will be peril if samples are not screened on a regular basis.
 
 According to the researchers, 72 per cent of the E coli bacteria isolated from city meat shops developed resistance to heat. This in other words means that these bacterial strains will not die during cooking. They need heat above 70 degrees Celsius to become inactive
 
