MEERUT: A   was   by a group of people in Bulandshahr on Tuesday as they suspected him of aiding a couple from different faiths to elope.
 
   , who had just taken up a   on contract to run, was allegedly beaten to death after five men, one of whom is believed to be a member of the  , spotted him early morning at his orchard.
  
  In the FIR Ahmed's family has lodged with police, they have named one Gavinder Singh, "a Vahini member, along with 4-5 men belonging to the right-wing group".
  
  Senior officials, including DIG (Meerut) range, SSP and the district magistrate rushed to the spot soon after news of the death broke out and have rushed heavy force to Sohi and Fazalpur villages in Bulandshahr.
  
  Recounting the sequence of events, Ahmad's son Vakil said, “A week ago, a man from Sohi, Riyazuddin Ahmad, had eloped with a girl from Fazalpur who belongs to a different community. Tension was simmering since then. In no time, members of the Hindu Yuva Vahini began threatening us. Two days ago, Gavinder Singh, a resident of our own village, brought with him other members of the group and threatened my father because they thought he knew the whereabouts of the couple.”
  
  In the FIR, Vakil has stated that the Vahini members spotted his father at the orchard on Tuesday morning and repeated their question on the whereabouts of the couple. When Ahmed was unable to answer, "they beat him mercilessly with rods. Taking him for dead they fled the scene but he somehow rang me up and managed to tell us everything. We rushed him to a primary health centre but he succumbed to his injuries."
  
  Gavinder Singh, the main accused in the FIR, and four others have been slapped with IPC sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting armed with deadly weapons) and 302 (murder).
  
  Hindu Yuva Vahini leaders have, meanwhile, said they have no member by the name of Gavinder Singh. They have, however, not denied their involvement in the case. "We were helping the family of the girl in getting police help to trace her and the boy. We have no idea who attacked the old man. We have strict instructions from our high command not to take the law into our own hands and we have been following that religiously,” said Sunil Singh, district president of Hindu Yuva Vahini.
  
  Sunil Emanuel, DIG, said, “Whether there is involvement of the Hindu Yuva Vahini or not is a matter of investigation. We have not arrested anyone yet. Regarding the couple, we have got some vital clues regarding their whereabouts and we will recover them soon.”
  
  SP (rural) Jagdish Sharma added: "We have detained a dozen persons in connection with the disappearance of the couple. Regarding the Vahini angle, once we are able to arrest the main accused, Gavinder Singh, we can say who was involved in the attack on Ahmed."
