From live Bollywood music and dance performances to mind-blowing metal gigs, scintillating ramp walks and novel robot wars,   — the three-day annual fest at the Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad, held over the weekend, had it all. 

 FUSION MUSIC SERVED FRESH
 The fest picked tempo on Friday with a battle of seven fusion bands from all over the country fighting it out for top honours. Music buffs witnessed a closely fought out contest which ended with Mishram, a band from Bengaluru, taking home the title. Hyderabad band Crescendo won the second place. The fusion flavour continued on 
 
 Day two, with a mesmerising performance by fusion band Magic Flutes which combined the Carnatic mastery of Indian flautist   and the Celtic style of French flautist  .
 
 STUDENTS STRUT THEIR STUFF ON THE RAMP
 As the sun set, students from various colleges oozed oomph as they walked down the ramp in cocktail dresses and smart casuals. With their friends cheering them on, the gorgeous girls put their best foot forward, as the fashion show doubled up as the prelims for  . 
 
 AND, THEY HAD SOME BOLLYWOOD TADKA TO BOOT!
 What’s a college fest without some Bollywood dhamaka? As the students got their filmy groove on,   brought the roof down with his dhamakedaar performance. The 2000-strong crowd sang along to hits like Disco Deewane, Badtameez Dil, Humma Humma, Ude Dil Befikre and Nashe Se Chadd Gayi. The revelry continued, as DJ   served a heavy dose of EDM for the party animals in the crowd.
 
 METAL MANIA RULES DAY THREE
 On the final day, dance crews from various colleges staged stunning performances to a mashup of songs. ‘Live Wire’ from VNR VJIET took home the top prize. But the real deal for the day was the metal contest ‘Elan-e-Jung’ that saw We’ll Decide On Wednesday from Bengaluru and Hostilian from Hyderabad take first and second prizes respectively. Soon, the crowd was bouncing to the music of electronica duo Echo and Tito from Israel, who fused ethnic grooves with modern EDM sounds. Their high energy music coupled with singer Echo Morgenstein’s intense rapping amplified the energy of the crowd. 
 Swedish metal band Mindshift unleashed a performance of powerful rhythms and heavy riffs in an hour-long high energy finale to the fest. While they largely played their own compositions, the Stockholm-based band’s frontman   got the crowd to sing along to their cover of Killswitch Engage’s popular anthem The End Of Heartache. 
 
