KOCHI: A person who has been sexually assaulted, be it   or   or even groping, goes through mental trauma that needs to be addressed with medical and emotional support, according to experts.
“They go through an intense trauma which is beyond their control. It's a post-traumatic stress disorder where the person has nightmares, re-lives every minute of the experience and has feelings that shehe is being attacked again and again,“ said Dr C J John, senior psychiatrist and founder  .
 
 He said that survivors feel very depressed and are very scared. “They keep having scary memories of the   which at one stage becomes guilt. Though it is not their fault, they begin to feel that they are responsible for what happened.The depression adds to that.“
 
 Ideally, the standard protocol demands that the survivor be given psychiatric help even when they are undergoing a medical examination. “The gynaecologist should also begin counselling. The entire examination should be done sensitively handling the survivor's state of mind. She should be given a chance to ventilate her feelings and fears.The person who is helping her should be non-judgemental and the entire process should aid her in expressing her thoughts and feelings.
 
 Dr John said that it is high time that the state machinery addresses the psychiatric needs of survivors who are going through a personal hell.
 
 “I remember an incident which happened a couple of years ago. An Australian tourist team which was travelling in India faced a crisis when one fellow traveller committed suicide in the resort they were travelling. The entire team was directed to me for counselling and I could identify a few people who needed psychological support because they had interacted with the victim just before the incident. Later the tour company also sent the Indian tour guide for a counselling session to overcome the trauma of having lost a traveller,“ he said.
 
 This is how the systems in the West work. “But here, we are yet to even address the needs of the most-needy people who are under a `mind attack'.Just like the `heart attack' victims, these people too need major intervention, he added.
 
 Here the tendency is to blame women for such incidents adding the burden of guilt on survivors.
 
