ROHTAK: The Haryana health department teams cracking down on medical practitioners indulging in   have observed a trend which has shocked the authorities. The raiding teams have found that these sex determination tests (SDTs) are conducted by quacks and crooks, and there are no professional and trained staff involved.

 A raiding team of the Bhiwani health authorities found that the gang used to fool expecting mothers by showing them ultrasound done with an ordinary laptop and equipment. A senior doctor in Bhiwani said they had busted a gang operating in Dadri and Mahendergarh districts three months ago.
 
 “A gang, comprising quacks and unqualified persons used to ensnare the customers for getting SDTs done and then aborting the child by telling them that they were carrying a girl child,” he said. The gang confessed to charging Rs 50,000 as package deal, he added.
 
 The state health authorities have registered over 380 FIRs under Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Test (PCPNDT) Act and Medical Termination of Pregnancy ( ) Act from April to December 2016.
 
 A senior doctor in the Rohtak chief medical officer’s office told TOI that due to fear of raids by the health department, trained and qualified professionals had kept away from offering gender testsk, while crooks and quacks had become active in rural areas by projecting themselves as doctors.
 
 “This trend is more dangerous as they play with the expectant mother’s health by performing abortion in most unskilled manner,” he said. 
 
 Gurugram health department said that on December 12, 2016 they had sent a decoy customer and were shocked to find a quack using ordinary laptop and mouse for SDT. According to the medical standards, a person who performs ultrasound should be at least   and MTP trained to conduct a safe ultrasound and abortion.
 
 A maximum number of FIRs and raids were conducted in Panipat (36), followed by Yammunagar (35),   (27) and Kurukshetra (23) under PCPNDT Act and MTP Act. The least number of FIRs were registered at Mewat (2) and Panchkula (9). Sixteen districts of Haryana conducted 67 inter-state raids last year in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Rajasthan, Delhi while following a decoy customer to nab the culprits.
 
 
