HYDERABAD:   think it is ' ' to tease,   and are often baffled at being caught,   on the   have found after counselling offenders nabbed during street patrols.

 Experts have found that hooting, passing remarks, name-calling, following on roads, stalking on social media and even touching without permission are among the `naturally learnt' behaviour patterns among various men. What's worrying is that this 'disturbing assumption' remains uniform across age groups and social strata. Even elderly men over 50 years of age unabashedly indulge in eve-teasing. This `adolescent behaviour pattern' is triggered in them by a 'need to feel young'.
 
 She Teams nabbed 36 men who were either eve-teasing or harassing women at public places around the city in the first 24 days of this year.Another 82 petitions were sent by women through various modes.
 
 Most of the offenders are being rounded up for counselling sessions to be conducted in the presence of their parents. “In case of the younger lot, it appears as if they do it because everyone else is doing it. They think it is perfectly normal to be like that,“ said Dr Vasuprada Kartik, a psychologist on the panel of She Teams.
 
 The youngsters being counselled are as young as seven to eight years old. “They seem to perceive it is completely okay to objectify women and it comes naturally to them. Easy access to content in pornographic sites and movies are to be blamed for this. Also, the relationship between parents greatly influences how a child thinks,“ she added.
 
 Psychologists on the panel are now concentrating on reversing this mindset in young offenders. “The idea is to catch them young. Counselling juveniles is our focus area as it is both preventive and curative. Juveniles are usually left with a warning and no case is registered against them. By counselling them, we can prevent them from being on the actual offenders' list,“ said D Kavita, assistant commissioner of She Teams.
 
 Police also advise family members of offenders to show respect towards women in their daily dealings.
 
