CHENNAI: Former chief minister   on Friday kept up the pressure on the state and central governments, setting 5pm on March 8 as the deadline for instituting a probe into the   provided to former CM   before her demise on December 5. Panneerselvam has announced a hunger strike from 9am to 5pm on March 8 to demand a probe into  .

 “Doubts persist about the medical treatment given to Amma. She fell ill suddenly and died. We want the government to probe everything related to her death, come out with the truth and put all doubts to rest,“ he said. He warned that the hunger strike would take a different turn “if there is no announcement on the probe by then.“
 
 Panneerselvam said some doctors who had treated Jayalalithaa met him and spoke to him about the treatment provided to her. “It was only after this that I decided to come out and speak against (AIADMK general secretary)   and her family,“ he told reporters at his residence after a meeting with AIADMK party cadre from Kancheepuram district. Recalling the various developments in the run up to Jayalalithaa's death, the former chief minister claimed that several times the issue of taking the leader to the US or the UK for better treatment was raised.“Senior ministers and I suggested that Amma be taken abroad for treatment. We also spoke to doctors in the hospital to find out whether she was fit to travel abroad. They said it was possible, but permission was not given,“ alleged Panneerselvam.
 
 The former chief minister said he proposed Sasikala's name for the post of general secretary under pressure. “It was only after senior party leaders said Sasikala must be the general secretary that I proposed her name. On the day I was asked to resign as chief minister, there was a big argument in Poes Garden (residence of Jayalalithaa) for nearly two hours. I finally resigned and wanted to go back to my native village. But the leaders once again said I will have to propose her name as legislative party leader and that too I did under duress,“ said Panneerselvam.
 
 Several MLAs and ministers, who are now in the Sasikala faction, had earlier expressed apprehension about going back to their constituencies and meeting voters if Sasikala became chief minister. “There are many MLAs and ministers who called on me and told me that it would not be possible to win elections if Sasikala became chief minister. All of them are now continuing as ministers and MLAs since they are keen on power,“ said Panneerselvam.
 
 Pooh-poohing Panneerselvam's allegations, AIADMK deputy general secretary TTV Dinakaran told reporters at the party headquarters after a meeting with MPs, “Soon after AIADMK founder M G Ramachandran died, we know what P H Pandian (former assembly speaker) did.Now after Jayalalithaa's death, there is Panneerselvam. Both want to destroy the party.“
 
