On the evening of October 5, 2006, I was playing on the terrace with my brother. My friends, who were on the terrace of a nearby house, called us to join them. There was no electricity in our area at that time.

 I was standing with my right hand resting on the parapet when the power returned. All I recall is that my right hand was strongly pulled towards the wire and I fell unconscious. After some hours, I woke up in the hospital, not sure of what had happened. When I would hurt my knees or hands while playing, I would often get an earful from my parents for not being careful. I was scared thinking they would scold me.
 
 Instead, I saw their crying faces.
 
 I underwent many surgeries during my one-and-a-half month stay in the hospital. I was anaesthetized everyday as the dressing would be painful. Initially, I had no idea that I had lost my right hand and left leg. I thought my hand was folded but when the bandage was removed, I realized that I had lost it. 
 
 After a few days when I was trying to get up from the bed, I came to know I had lost my leg too. As a 11-year-old, I didn’t know to react. 
 
 One day, I told my mother that I have a new dream — to go home. But when that happened, I found myself trapped inside the four walls. I was too weak to walk, my daily dressings continued as I had a skin grafting and I was on bed rest for almost a year. The first time I had stepped outside my house was to buy an artificial leg.
 
 I was in Std VI then and I did not want to lose on an academic year. My teachers at St Joesph’s Convent School, Kamptee, suggested that I study at home and attend school only to appear for exams. I did this and managed to score good marks.
 
 I thought things were beginning to get better, unaware of the ordeal that was waiting. In the fresh academic session of Std VII, I decided to go to school. On the very first day, I realized I was not able to walk. Doctors said it was because of the size difference in my limbs and I would always face this difficulty. And then my right leg had to be removed.
 
 After losing a hand and a leg, losing another one was a punishing feeling. My parents gave just one advice — to accept myself the way I was.
 
 I moved on and cleared my tenth board exams with 83%.
 
 While in school I never had any distressing experience, things were a lot different in college — I was seen and treated differently. I deliberately chose electrical engineering, not letting my fears of the past come in the way of my career. 
 
 Despite having potential, I was picked out from performing practical experiments. 
 
 Though all these years, I had conditioned myself not to think about the incident, one day I had an explicit flashback. I was performing an experiment in the high tension lab when suddenly I heard the sound of flowing current. That moment, my accident replayed in front of my eyes.
 
 I don’t know where the strength to survive all the tough times came from. While I did and am doing my best, I wish the concerned authorities had shown, if not remorse, then at least dutiful assistance. Apart from a meagre interim compensation, no help came to us.
 
 The artificial limb I am wearing now is of a very low quality. After every few steps, I have to take a break and sit. 
 
 People often stare at me in a way that makes me embarrassed. It’s sad that the ‘handicapped’ are still looked upon differently in our society. Instead of getting proper facilities, we end up getting distant treatment. 
 
 (As told to Manka Behl)
 
 
