CHENNAI: Terming the disqualification of 18 legislators a “murder of democracy”, DMK working president M K Stalin said the   government was taking a shortcut to prove its majority.

 “The decision of the speaker to disqualify 18 MLAs is nothing but a murder of democracy. The government is trying to prove its majority with the help of the governor and the speaker (P Dhanapal). Governor C Vidyasagar Rao has waited to take action even though 19 MLAs had expressed in writing that they had lost confidence in the chief minister,” Stalin in a statement.
 
 Stalin blamed the Centre for allowing a minority government to continue and handle funds. The DMK has called a meeting of its legislature party on Tuesday evening to discuss the disqualification of the MLAs.
 
 Stalin also consulted the legal wing of his party on the speaker’s action. “Rajya Sabha member R S Bharathi, R Shanmugasundaram, R Girirajan and all members of the legal wing were present in the meeting,” said a DMK leader present at the party headquarters.
 
  founder S Ramadoss said the EPS government will fall soon. “Even though the governor and speaker have become pillars of strength for the government, it will fall as the disqualification can be challenged in court,” said Ramadoss. “The speaker’s action is against rules as the legislators did not violate a whip or the anti-defection law. The governor has a major role in the murder of democracy in the state as he must have ordered the government to seek a confidence vote in the assembly,” Ramadoss said.
 
 CPM state secretary G Ramakrishnan said chief minister Palaniswami had lost his majority long back. “The day when 19 MLAs gave individual letters to the governor withdrawing support to chief minister, the government had lost its majority,” he said. “When we met the governor, he said the dissidence is nothing but an intra-party affair. The Centre wants a government in Tamil Nadu which will bow before it. What has been done by the speaker has ulterior political motives and is against democracy,” Ramakrishnan said.
 
 Congress too hit out at the speaker. “The speaker’s action is illegal and unconstitutional. He has disqualified the MLAs only to help the state government. MLAs have every right to seek a legal remedy. Congress will deliberate with allies including the DMK on the matter,” said Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president S Thirunavukkarasar.
 
 VCK leader Thol Thirumavalavan said the legislators backing Dhinakaran did not do anything illegal. “We hope the court will strike down the disqualification of the MLAs as the speaker’s action is against law. The MLAs have not violated any of the sections of the anti-defection law,” he said. “The disqualification has been done at time when the Madras high court is yet to deliver its judgment on DMK plea for confidence vote,” Thirumavalavan said.
 
