Top performers...get pulled down. If you have been working hard to stand out among your colleagues, prepare to get punished, says an article in Scientific American. "It can make our peers resent us and try to undermine our good work." The more collaborative your work, the harsher will be your 'social penalty'.

 Tom Hanks is undoubtedly one of Hollywood's finest actors, but after he won back to-back 'best actor' Oscars for Philadelphia and Forrest Gump, in 1993 and 1994, fine performances in subsequent movies such as Apollo 13, Saving Private Ryan, and Castaway went unrewarded. Why? "Hanks didn't receive enough votes from his fellow actors to be nominated for any of these movies. The lack of nominations, as various critics and fans alike concluded, seemed an intentional slight that robbed Hanks of awards he deserved." This also happens in less glamorous workplaces, like the factory floor. "There is a long history of factory workers punishing peers for working `too fast". If you are going to wrap up your share of the day's work in the first half, the rest of the team is going to look like slackers. As a high-performer you seem threatening to the others.
 
 To understand how envy of high-performing colleagues works, researchers from University of Minnesota studied stylists working in Taiwanese salons. They found that "peers were more likely to belittle, insult, and damage the reputation of high rather than low - performers. In addition, the more collaborative the team was, the more peers mistreated high-performers."
 
 In another experiment on business students in the US, the researchers used a computerised script rather than a real participant that would perform either similarly to the others or much better. "If resources were limited, peers felt threatened by and competitive toward high performers and thus undermined them. If resources were shared, peers benefitted from working with a star and thus socially supported the high-performer."
 
 This shows that peer envy is swayed by self-interest: "peers resent and lash out against star achievers strategically - that is, only when it is not in their best interest to support them."
 
 For more: Scientific American
 
 
