JAIPUR: Rajasthan High court on Tuesday asked whether the Jaipur Vikas Pradhikaran (Jaipur Development Authority) has become Jaipur Vinash Pradhikaran( ). 

 The division bench of justice K S Javeri and Justice VK Vys made this observation during the hearing of a PIL by Omprakash Ojha and others challenging the decision of the   to reduce the width of Hatipura road section 13 and 14 from 80 feet to 40 feet and regularize the encroachments on the road. At present the road has been reduced to 20-30 feet at some places due to rampant encroachments.
 
 The section of the 80 feet road is passing behind the Gopalan Nagar, Singh Bhoomi and   areas. The JDA at its building plan committee ( ) has decided to reduce the width of the road to 40 feet instead of 80 feet.
 
 After the petitioners approached the court the high court had directed to remove the encroachments on July 29 2009 and stayed the decision of the BPC. 
 
 Despite the court directions, the JDA on March 16 last year had decided to regularize the encroachments. Seeing the court's strong observation, JDA lawyer sought 45 days' time to respond to the petition.
 
  Notice over cancellation of lease for petrol pump: The high court has issued notices to the secretary  , secretary JDA and BPCL over cancellation of lease of land to a petrol pump at MI Road in Jaipur. The JDA cancelled the lease of the land under   premises (Eviction of Unauthorized Occupant) Act 1969. 
 
 The single bench of justice MN Bhandari issued notices on a petition by Prem Singhi and others challenging the JDA action. The petitioner said they were not encroachers but legal lease holder and either the JDA increase the lease period or allot the said land. 
 
  'Hold camps for power connections' : Rajasthan High court has directed the   (JVVNL) to hold camps for individual power connection at the E- block of the chambers of the lawyers within a week while seeking the list of the lawyers using air conditioners at their chambers but not paying bills. 
 
  The single bench of Justice MN Bhandari's order came on a petition of high court bar association president Rajendra Sharma.
 
