GURUGRAM: Residents of   in Sector 58, off Golf Course Road (extension) have lodged a police complaint after multiple incidents of concrete and glass panes falling off the building façade since last week. 

 The project has 10 towers, including the   that consists of an East wing and a West wing. 
 
 According to residents, on May 14, a piece of concrete fell off from the balcony of a 10th floor flat in F tower and landed on a 3rd floor balcony, damaging it. “The debris, weighing 10-15 kg in total, was spotted next morning, when the flat residents came out to water their plants. If only their kid was in the balcony when the pieces fell, there could have been an unfortunate accident,” said one of the residents.
 
 Again on May 19, a glass pane from the club house wall fell off. “When I brought this house, I did not even see the apartment. I saw the club house, which was the flagship building of the project, and bought the flat. Imagine if the quality of its construction is so bad, what the case would be for the rest of the society,” said another resident.
 
  The residents have filed a complaint with Badshapur police station. A copy of the complaint has been accessed by TOI, though police are yet to register an FIR. Residents have also written to the department of town and country planning and the deputy commissioner about the faulty construction. 
 
 “I know like us, most of societies in Gurgaon have issues with basic amenities. But the poor quality of construction is a danger to our lives,” said another resident, who works with a multinational financial services company.
 
 When TOI visited the society, debris of plaster and concrete was spotted at multiple places. Residents have approached the developer with the issue, who took note of the incident and said a team, along with vendor partners, will visit the society for an inspection, as a precautionary measure.
 
 The builder began handing over possession of the towers in 2016. As the process isn’t complete, the society has received a conditional occupation certificate. According to residents, the builder is bound to take responsibility of the flats for one year, after handing over possession to home buyers. 
 
 “We have provided and deployed the very best of materials, consultants, vendors and contractors for the construction of the entire project. We have taken note of this unfortunate occurrence and concerns highlighted therein by residents,” said an Ireo spokesperson.
 
 
