KOLKATA: For five students from  , they not only had a crucial paper in the ongoing   on Monday , but the day also tested their grit. While their effort at the   that they sat through is awaited, they passed another test with  .

 The five students had met with an accident on the way to the examination centre, but overcame their injuries and trauma to sit through the exam despite reaching the venue 20 minutes late.
 
 Ayan Pal, Somnath Bhattacharya, Gourav Das, Rahul Chatterjee and Monirul Islam, all students at Kadihati Kalinath High School in Birati, were travelling to Teghoria's Cha rigram Ramkumar School, the Madhyamik examination centre, in an overloaded autorickshaw. They had barely travelled 3km when a car dashed into the auto from behind near Airport Gate No. 3. On impact, the auto toppled over and landed on the Jessore Road divider.
 
 Luckily, locals and civic traffic volunteers rushed to their aid and took them to a nursing home for a check-up.Two of them were seriously injured. Ayan, who was sitting to the driver's extreme left, was the worst of the lot and received head injuries. “He nearly lost consciousness and had difficultly standing, for a while“ said Somnath, whose knee was injured, as was Moirul's. Gourav and Rahul escaped with minor injuries.
 
 “When they were discharged after treatment, we managed to ferry them to the examination hall in a car,“ said Papri Bhattacharya, Somnath's mother.
 
 When the five students ultimately reached the exmination centre, it was 12.05pm, 20 minutes after the question paper had been handed. “The other students had a head start. But I am happy that despite the mishap, we all finished the examination. I was a bit nervous initially but the centre in-charge was kind enough to give us15 minutes' grace,“ Gourav said.
 
 Invigilators at the centre also provided ice and cold water to the injured students while the examination was on to ensure that the pain did not become overbearing. “If I do well in the exam, it will be because everyone cooperated and helped,“ Rahul said.
 
 Sumit Saha, a teacher at Kadihati Kalinath High School, said school authorities had contacted the guardians of the five students after learning of the accident. “We were anxious about what had happened.When we learned that they had taken the exam, we were delighted,“ he said.
 
