KOCHI: The officers at the   might have a tough time pronouncing   of Kannur, who, along with two other researchers, holds a patent for an   for  . Shaji, who had developed the product for Cornelius Inc., the leading producer of beverage dispensing machines in the world, forms part of a large, but, loose-knit group of Malayali inventors from small towns who hold US patents. 

 Records show that the US Patent Office had granted 17,548 patents to Indians during the period 1963 - 2015. And when the TOI analyzed their database, between the 10 small   towns randomly chosen, there were 159 patents filed since 1976. 
 
 Malayali inventions range anything from a design patents to door mats to an invention which could potentially change the life of people. Naveen Jacob and Ivine Kuruvila of Kottayam had invented 'carrier detection and parallel GSM cell search in multimode terminals' while working for ST-Ericsson SA, a manufacturer of wireless products and semiconductors. Another researcher from the same town, Anish Surendran of Honeywell International, had patented 'suction sealing for turbocharger' in 2015, along with six others. 
 
 It was for his invention on the 'enhancement of Raman scattering' that Kottayam-native Raman Namboodiri and two others of IIT-Madras received a patent in 2015.
 
 What spurred the growth in number of small-town Malayalis chasing the route of invention is the policy of large global companies setting up research centres in Indian metros like Bengaluru. They hire local talent, which includes a high number of research engineers hailing from small towns in Kerala. 
 
 For that matter, the employers of 'Mallu' inventors tend to be global hi-tech firms of US or European origin: Texas Instruments, Honeywell International, IBM, Ford, General Electric, General Motors, Oracle, Ericsson, Google Technology Holdings. On the other hand, their desi counterparts like Infosys Ltd, the Indian IT services giant, are also sponsoring inventions in their respective fields.
 
 However, small Kerala firms with a strong trade relation with the US or European markets, also support patenting, to protect their products. Aluva-based Arjuna Natural Extracts' co-founder Benny Antony has 29 patents to his credit of which 25 are US patents. His wife Merina Benny holds another seven US patents. Between them, there are another 36 patent applications pending for approval, with the US Patent Office, now.
 
 "We are patenting the formulations we had developed. If we don't do that, somebody, sitting in other parts of the world might do that," said Antony, who had started applying patents for his proprietary medicinal compositions in 2004.
 
 Similarly, Vivek Venugopal, managing director of Alappuzha-based William Goodacre & Sons holds eight US design patents for coir door & floor mats to protect the identity of his products from competition. He also has another 20 European Union patents.
 
 However, there are occasional local inventors who go on securing patents to their intellectual property, without backing of any commercial organisations - Ukkru Varunny Kandeth of Thrissur had first received a US patent in 2009 for his idea of an 'infinitely variable gear transmission with microprocessor control', and a second one in 2013 for an improved version. An 82-year old retired general manager-R&D of Golden Tobacco, Kandeth holds eight Indian patents too.
 
 "US patent is a luxurious and complicated item. There might not be too many individuals applying for US patents, without the support of firms. This is mainly because of the cost involved in it," Kandeth said. 
 
 The current cost is somewhere between Rs 10 lakh to Rs 15 lakh, based on the complexity of the product. 
 
 
