
 
  Will   bid adieu to Mumbai today or not?
  
  Well, the suspense continued on Saturday with both the authorities of   and Eman’s family, who are locked in a bitter mud-slinging match over her discharge, refusing to clear the air.
  
  The city’s top bariatric surgeon Dr Muffazal Lakdawala, who was instrumental in bringing Eman, who at 500kg was the planet’s heaviest woman, from Egypt to Mumbai and has been credited for making her 300 kg lighter, told the media that her sister   had not sought her discharge yet. “We are ready to discharge Eman anytime as per her wish,” he added.
  
  Sources at the hospital said that nobody from VPS Healthcare, Abu Dhabi, visited the hospital to see the arrangements to fly Eman to Burjeel Hospital, where her treatment will continue. Burjeel Hospital is part of the VPS Healthcare Group.
  
  Shaimaa, who had accused Dr Lakdawala and Saifee Hospital of abandoning her and hastening her release, refused to comment.
  
  Shaimaa faced flak from BJP spokesperson Shaina NC, who sought an apology from her for defaming Dr Lakdawala and the hospital authorities. The BJP leader paid a visit to Eman and Shaimaa at the hospital on Saturday.
  
  Speaking to Mumbai Mirror, Shaina NC said, “I met Eman and she looks fine. She has lost a huge amount of weight. The doctors and hospital staff are taking good care of her. It is not right to say that they have abandoned her. Eman’s surgery was successful, what else her sister wants?”
  
  She further said that Dr Lakdawala did everything for Eman and Rs 3 crore had been spent on her treatment. “What more does Eman’s sister expect? Just because he said that Eman was fit to be discharged, she started calling him liar. This is defaming Indian doctors and is not right. I met Shaimaa and asked her to say sorry to all the team members, who are taking good care of Eman since the time she was brought here,” Shaina NC added.
  
  Later in the night, Shaina NC called on Maharashtra Chief Minister   to voice her protest against the false allegations raised by Eman’s family.
  
  Mumbai Mirror tried to get in touch with Anshul Sharma, administrator of VPS Healthcare, to know when Eman would be taken to Abu Dhabhi and what would be her future line of treatment, but he didn’t respond to calls, e-mails or text messages. After the fallout between Shaimaa and Dr Lakdawala, the former approached VPS Healthcare in Abu Dhabi. A seven-member team from VPS visited Eman last week.
  
  Eman, who currently weighs 176.6 kg, will fly in business class in a normal flight to Abu Dhabi. Shaimaa had earlier told Mumbai Mirror that Dr. Shamsheer Vayalil, managing director of VPS Healthcare, has offered Eman one-and-a-half-year stay at  . She wants Eman’s physiotherapy to continue there as it is closer to home in Alexandria.
