LUCKNOW: Scurrying across the ward,  , it was probably the longest day of Kamlesh's life.His 40-year-old brother Guddu, a patient of fourth stage of liver cancer, was rushed to   after a fire broke in   After primary medical treatment there, the family was told to wait for a day or two until they were referred back to KGMU because the hospital has no facility for treatment of liver diseases.

 “It has been close to 18 hours. All they have given is IV .When I asked the nurse, she said the hospital did not have specialized doctors for treatment of liver so we need to wait until the situation gets back to normal at Trauma Centre. Why did they even take him when they had no facility for his treatment? We could have gone to SGPGI or so me other hospital straight away . His condition is so critical that each minute counts.We have no option but to sit here and waste another day ,“ lamented Kamlesh.
 
 Like him, several   who were rushed to different hospitals after the mishap at KGMU are facing trouble.With them, their caretakers too, are undergoing stress.
 
 Raja Ram Pandey , a 70-ye ar-old resident of Allahabad, was brought to KGMU after he suffered a paralysis attack.However, his file prepared at Balrampar hospital read he has fracture in the limbs.
 
 “We have been telling the nurse that my father had a paralysis attack and not a fracture; but she asked us to wait till the doctor turns up. Ever since he has been shifted to the ward, no doctor has visi ted. He is still not getting proper treatment,“ said Praveen Pandey , his son.
 
 Dr GP Gupta, responsible for looking after emergency patients at Balrampur hospital, admitted that the lapse was due to major confusion that had ensued in the hospital. He also claimed that though the ailment was mentioned wrongly in the file, the patient was given medicines correctly for paralysis.
 
 Sushil Kumar, 15, had had a stomach surgery a day ago at KGMU. He underwent similar trouble due to absence of doctors. “He is hungry since morning but we are not able to give him any food because nothing has been prescribed yet and we don't know what to give. We have been waiting for the doctor,“ said Nirmal, his older brother.
 
 The scene of misery was similar at other hospitals too.At Dr Shakuntala Mishra Civil Hospital, Chandravati, suffering from a serious skin infection, was kept in the general ward of emergency amid other patients. Her daughter Anjali said that even after a day of her admission to the hospital, no line of treatment had been decided.
 
 Hospital authorities admitted to their fault and said the chaos was because a lot of people had been brought in at the same time, and staff was less due to weekend.
 
 “We have no special ward for liver diseases. We refer such cases to SGPGI or KGMU but other anomalies will be probed and we will make sure no such confusion happens in the future,“ said Rishi Saxena, CMS at Balrampur.
 
 Ashutosh Dubey , the CMS at Civil Hospital, said, “Patients are given proper attention and medical assistance. If any of them is neglected, we assure it wouldn't happen again.“
 
