HYDERABAD: From apps that let you order food to apps that locate servicemen, playstores are flooded with tools that will help you become a better parent. These apps seem to be a rage with parents in the city, be it to map their child’s interest or to connect with paediatricians at the click of a button.

 “An increasing number of people are turning to technology for good parenting. This may be because a lot of parents, mostly working professionals, are unable to spend time with their children and hence keep track of their interests using algorithm-driven results based on the activities the kids engage in,” said  , founder and chief executive officer of Pinwi, a mobile-based parenting app that maps and plans activities for children based on their interests.
 
 While Pinwi caters to parents of children aged six to 13 years, Parentlane, a Bangalore-based startup’s ‘Growthcheck’ feature helps parents identify their child’s brain development patterns up to eight years old.
 
 “Our primary focus is on early child development in the age of 0 to 8 years when 90% of brain development occurs. Almost 16-17% of our entire user base is from Hyderabad. Most questions parents ask in Hyderabad are related to nutrition levels and requirements of their children. This is closely followed by health concerns, where they connect to doctors with certain symptoms. We have also noticed that paediatricians in Hyderabad are most active on the platform,” said  , co-founder of Parentlane, which recently filed a patent application in India for the Growthcheck feature.
 
 Jesal Agarwal, a finance professional and mother of a three-year-old, said that tracking her child’s development through a mobile app has made things easier for her. “Using a parenting app lets me keep track of whether my child is doing the required things for her development. I use the mobile app, which lets me upload my daughter’s milestones and progresses, whenever I have an appointment with a  . This has made it easier for the doctor as well to understand my child better,” said Agarwal, a user of Parentlane.
 
 
