JAIPUR:   a Jaipur-based girl Rs 1 lakh when the businessman, who claimed to be based in UK, turned out to be a   located in Delhi. A   (east) arrested the foreign national along with his Indian aide from Delhi on Friday.

 Deputy commissioner of police (East),   said that a girl had registered an FIR on April 4 at Moti Dungri police station . “She said in her report that she met one Kelvin, a UK-based businessman on a matrimonial site. They bonded well and began chatting; one day elvin’ said he is coming to India to meet her,” Rashtradeep said.
 
 On May 2, Kelvin said he has landed at Mumbai airport and being held up by customs officials. “One Simran called up the victim and introduced herself as a custom inspector. Simran told victim that Kelvin has been booked by customs and she has to transfer Rs 40,000 into a bank account,’ Rashtradeep said. later on the same day, Simran again called up the girl and said Kelvin has been detained once again as he is carrying gold coins, electronic items and 75,000 in UK currency, hence a penalty has to be paid to the tune of Rs 95,000. The victim readily transferred the money into a bank account. 
 
 Next day, Simarn called up victim and said Kelvin could not be allowed to go out of the airport before paying a tax deduction of Rs 1.86 lakh. “She felt suspicious and informed us, we formed a team and traced the bank account in which she had transferred the money. A special team was sent to Delhi and after several days of search we finally arrested one Kenena Solomon, a resident of Nigeria and his aide Kaushal Gupta,” Rashtradeep told TOI.
 
 Solomon had introduced himself as Kelvin, he had created a fake social media account where he uploaded fake pictures of his luxurious live as a businessman in United Kingdom. “Solomon had come to India on a tourist visa, which expired eight months ago. Solomon used Kaushik’s bank account as he legally could not open his own account,” Rashtradeep said.
 
 The cops have found that gang had duped several people in last ten days and accumulated about Rs 10 lakh of fraud money. The cops have recovered several sim cards and mobile phones from accused. 
 
