KOLKATA: Chief minister   on Friday extended the   scheme to higher education. Encouraging female students to go for postgraduate studies, Banerjee announced that her government would offer them monthly scholarships to the tune of Rs 2,500 for studying science and Rs 2000 for arts.

 The state on Friday celebrated the scheme's UN Public Service Award (UNPSA) win at   in June. The scheme was launched in Octo ber 2013, two years after   formed the government. Mamata said that it was a great pride to win the award on behalf of India and also dedicated the award to the girls under Kanyashree scheme.
 
 The scheme covers girls in the age group of 13-18 and un der it, they annually receive Rs 750. If a girl continues her studies up to the age of 18, a one-time grant of Rs 25,000 is deposited in her bank account, provided she is unmarried. So far, more than 93.25 lakh candidates have enrolled themselves under the project and 89.40 lakh applications have been sanctioned.
 
 While extending the Kanyashree scheme, Banerjee said   will fund 10 women researchers from the state.
 
 “We have had Kanyashree 1 and 2. Now we are starting Kanyashree 3, the extended version. After passing out from schools and colleges, students who go for universities (postgraduate) -if they score 45% -then in science stream, we will give them Rs 2,500 monthly while for arts section, we will give them Rs 2,000 per month,“ she said. Banerjee also said that the state would provide bicycles free of cost to all students of Class-IX to XII, which is part of the Sabooj Sathi project.“Already, 70 lakh cycles have been distributed,“ she said.
 
 The CM said that poverty cannot be a bar for achieving success. “You have to conquer poverty,“ she said.
 
 “I had no books when I was in college. I struggled all the way. Poverty is not a crime. I struggled all my life, but never bowed before anyone. Let there be competition based on merit, not money. Let there be a competition about culture, harmony and humanity. One is nothing without character,“ she added.
 
