NP Ramakrishna Reddy, a 1974 batch marine engineer from  , Visakhapatnam, served as a marine engineer for the Shipping Corporation of India. He later joined the department of ports in Andhra Pradesh as executive engineer in 1981. Since then, he held various posts and was instrumental in construction of the deepwater port at Kakinada as its chief engineer. Later, he was promoted as additional secretary to the state government and made in-charge of the key public-private partnership ( ) projects like Kakinada and Krishnapatnam ports and Rajiv Gandhi International Airport in Hyderabad. He was promoted as special chief secretary, department of animal husbandry, before he retired in 2010. He is now the managing director of the   (AMRC). He speaks to V Kamalakara Rao of TOI on the progress of   Rail (VMR) project.

 
 The proposal has been sent to the Union government for approval. The file is still with the government. Once the proposal is finalised, we will take up subsequent works including calling for tenders. If everything goes according to plan, construction will begin by end of this year. VMR will be operational in next three years and a half.
 
 
 It is not a normal project. It is a sensitive project, which needs clearance of nearly 10 departments. This apart, funding of the project will also be an important task. However, we are successfully handling each key point in the project by taking utmost care. We finally decided to take it up under PPP mode.
 
 
 The metro rail project will be sustainable if it is taken up under PPP mode. The project will also become affordable for the general public. The government cannot take up two metro projects simultaneously. So the Vizag project will be under PPP mode.
 
 
 AP will contribute 20 per cent of the Rs 13,488 crore in the form of land, which is nearly 75 acres. Another 20 per cent of the cost will come from the Centre. The developer will bear remaining 60% cost.
 
 
 The information and data will be utilised. However, traffic survey will be taken up afresh as the earlier one was conducted about 18 months ago.
 
 
 VMR consists of three corridors with a length of 43 km. The VMR is bigger than the  . Corridor-I covering from Kommadi Junction to Gajuwaka Junction runs on NH-16 for about 30.38 km and consists of 25 stations. The second corridor runs from Gurudwara Junction on NH-16 to Old Post Office near Vizag Port. It is 5.26 km long with seven stations. The third corridor covering from Thatichetlapalem on NH-16 to Chinna Waltair close to The Park hotel along the sea coast consists of nine stations (6.91 kms).
 
 
 We are planning train services every eight minutes. We estimated that 98 coaches are required for the VMR project.
 
 
 Why not. The project may not be able to quick response from the public. It will gain popularity as it will be the cheapest mode of transport.
 
