GREATER NOIDA: The Kenyan woman who had alleged that she was beaten up by some local men on Wednesday morning in Greater Noida had lied to police, the Association of   in India (AASI) said. According to office-bearers of AASI, Maria Burendi gave wrong information to police because she was facing some “mental problems”.

 The association has also apologised to the Indian community over the incident.
 
 “She has some family problems, that’s why she gave some wrong information,” Charles Kennedy, vice-president, AASI told TOI. “Yesterday, everything she said about what she was doing was totally wrong,” he added.
 
 Asked whether she was forced to retract her statement, former president of AASI, Emmanuel, said: “She was not pressured by anyone. Secondly, on her behalf, we want to apologise for blaming Indians for the attack,” he said.
 
 “We don’t want the case to be prolonged. There is no need to investigate without any reason,” Emmanuel said.
 
 According to the association, the Greater Noida police will not lodge a complaint against her for giving false complaint as she has been assured by the   that a compromise has been reached to withdraw the complaint. “There will not be any more complaints, this case is over,” Emmanuel said in the presence of Fredrich K Ndegwa, consul from the High Commission of Kenya.
 
 On Thursday, at a press conference hurriedly called by city police, SSP Dharmendra Singh said the cab driver had refuted the version of the woman.
 
 Claiming that he picked up the woman from   before 6 am and dropped her at a flat in Omicron 1A, the driver said there was no assault on her during the journey.
 
 “I got a booking from DPS Society flat number 155. I picked her up and dropped her at Omicron 1A. Before she got dropped, she called someone and a man stepped out from the flat. He gave me a note of Rs 500. When I told them there was no change, the woman handed over Rs 120 to me,” said Pintoo Kumar, the Ola cab driver.
 
 The Ola receipts accessed by TOI show that the woman’s journey started at 5:37 am from DPS Society, Sector Pi, and ended at an “unnamed road” in Omicron 1A at 5:55 am.
 
 The SSP said that at 7:30 am, the woman directly called the chowki in-charge of Alpha 1 area, Rajender Rana, who took her to Kailash Hospital, Greater Noida.
 
 “She had the chowki in-charge’s number as on Tuesday early morning (the day of the assault on Africans), she was roaming outside the same flat and the chowki in-charge escorted her to the flat. That time, she had taken his number. At around the same time on Tuesday night too, she had been travelling alone when Kasna inspector Awnish Dixit escorted her to the flat as the police were patrolling outside the Omicron roundabout,” he said.
 
