AHMEDABAD: Sixteen years after the killer earthquake of January 26, 2001,   has not only bounced back with commendable rehabilitation of those affected, the district has also transformed itself from   to one of the most preferred investment destinations in Gujarat.

 Despite the end in 2010 of the tax holiday announced to attract industries after the quake, corporate giants and small companies have continued to invest, not just to expand their setups but also in greenfield projects, with the availability of vast land parcels, buzzing ports and robust infrastructure.
 
 “Kutch has been a grand success. Earlier, tax incentives attracted many industries to Kutch. Now, it is going to develop as a port-led industrialization hub in the true sense,” said Sunil Parekh, an Ahmedabad-based industry expert.
 
 With the likes of Adani Group, Welspun Group, Infrastructure Leasing and Financial Services Ltd (IL&FS), Ultratech Cement, Sanghi Industries Ltd and   among others lining up with projects, Kutch is expected to witness a whopping Rs 1.5 lakh crore of investment in the years to come. Kutch has been home to many of these firms’ ventures for more than a decade now.
 
 Rapid industrialization played a crucial role in the resurrection of the ravaged remote district, where the damage was pegged at over Rs 10,000 crore. Kutch had industrial investment of a meagre Rs 2,500 before 2001. Today, it stands at a staggering Rs 1 lakh crore and the district contributes more than Rs 25,000 crore annually to government coffers in taxes.
  
  The five-year tax sops brought a battery of large and small units to sectors like ports, power generation, marine chemicals, cement, textile, edible oil refining, steel and pipes in Kutch, which houses India’s largest private and public ports at Mundra and   respectively and two ultra-mega power projects.
 
 “It is the biggest turnaround witnessed anywhere in the world and industrial development was a key component of faster re-development,” said Nimish Phadke, managing director, Federation of Kutch Industries Associations (FOKIA).
 
 Industry players believe industrial development has stabilized by over the years. “After any natural calamity, the pace of development is always faster in the first 5 to 10 years. It is not possible to maintain the pace of the initial years. However, industrialization and economic activities have stabilized in Kutch. Even after withdrawal of tax sops, many industrial houses have continued to invest and expand in Kutch,” Phadke added.
 
 For the next phase of development, infrastructure creation needs to go in tandem with economic development in Kutch. Rail infrastructure needs to be spruced up in line with the growth in cargo handled at Mundra and Kandla ports. Social infrastructure such as medical facilities and educational facilities are the need of the day. With no tax incentives, social infrastructure is something that attracts industries. Water availability is also another crucial component requiring special focus.
 
 
