CHENNAI: Shortly after the celebrations at the resort in Koovathur after   invited AIADMK legislature party leader Edappadi K Palaniswami to form the government, MLAs and party functionaries of the Sasikala-led faction received a shower of abuses from the general public and cadres while proceeding to Raj Bhavan to participate in the swearing-in ceremony on Thursday evening.

 Videos of people, including party cadres, spitting at the vehicles in the convoy as it slowed down due to traffic en route to Raj Bhavan, and showering abuses, went viral. They used foul language against the legislators for “turning pawns in the hands of AIADMK general secretary V K Sasikala,” who was convicted and lodged at Bengaluru prison, to register their strong protest against her nominee assuming charge as Tamil Nadu chief minister.
 
 A man went on to the extent of slapping a party functionary and bystanders chased away party cadres. The cold reception of the general public for the legislators indicate the music they will have to face in the days to come.
 
 Earlier in the day, it was celebration time for pro-Sasikala legislators at the Golden Bay beach resort where they have been staying since February 8. The jubilant legislators and party functionaries in the Sasikala camp vied with each other in hailing her for the resolve she exhibited in keeping the party ‘in tact’. Party functionaries distributed ‘payasam’ and raised slogans of ‘Chinnamma Vazhga and Ilaiya Puratchi Thalaivi’.
 
 “It is victory of dharma. It is victory of Amma, people and the party cadres. It is victory of Chinnamma. People voted for Amma and Amma’s legacy will continue. Amma’s dream has been fulfilled,” said Lok Sabha deputy speaker M Thambidurai.
 
 He said the Governor was satisfied that claims of chief minister O Panneerselvam were wrong. “It is a happy occasion for us. It is not a long wait. We know we will form the government. We succeeded as all MLAs stood united. The nation will know that the MLAs are united and party cadres are united. We will ensure a stable government. We want to ensure good administration. Our Amma government will continue and serve the people and State,” he said.
 
 When asked if chief minister Palaniswami will be also made the general secretary as they had earlier insisted that the party and government must be headed by one leader, Thambidurai replied in the negative. “The situation has changed now as the general secretary has a legal problem in becoming the chief minister,” he said.
 
 The LS deputy speaker said Sasikala has been facing 'some problems' and she will overcome all barriers. “We got Amma’s government through her (Sasikala). All poll promises will be fulfilled. We will fulfil people’s wishes,” he said.
 
 
