HYDERABAD: The dubious distinction of accounting for the highest number of accidents in   state goes to the bikers. In Hyderabad too, the highest number of   saw the involvement of two-wheelers. About 30 per cent of the total accidents occurring in the state involve two-wheeler riders.

 On an average about 20,000 accidents are registered in Telangana every year in the last three years. The data available with the transport department reveals that 7,000 people on an average are dying in road accidents every year in Telangana including 380 in Hyderabad.
 
 A closer look at the data reveals that 28.99 per cent of the total 7,000 people dying per annum in road accidents are bikers. Even the share of two-wheelers in total accidents involving various category of vehicles is at 31.73 per cent, which is the highest. Experts blamed it on failure of the enforcement authorities to send a clear message to the bikers that there is no escape if helmet is not worn. Experts also suggested that chief minister   intervene and set up a research institute comprising experts to study and suggest measures to bring down accidents and accident-death rate in Telangana. “There should be a research institute with experts from traffic and transport in it. The chief minister should be its chairman and ministers from relevant departments like medical, health, law, home, transport to name a few as its members.The accident and casualty rate due to road accidents can be brought down in Telangana too,“ said   scientist TS Reddy . He said traffic cops and transport department vehicle inspectors have failed to reign in errant motorists. “How many cases are being booked on highways for not wearing helmets or seat belts. Only during special drives cases are booked on highways and thereafter there is almost no enforcement against these type of violations. In Hyderabad also the special drive against helmet rule violation has slackened after demonetisation. Now, a large number of bikers are not wearing helmets and head injuries are the top most reason for death rate being high in road accidents, be it on city roads or highways,“ Reddy said.
 
 Traffic expert Prof P R   of JNTU said enforcement should be a continuous affair and that motorists should feel that they cannot escape from the law for violating any traffic rules.“What is important here is to maintain the history of motorists pertaining to traffic violations, based on which action like increasing the penalties, suspension of driving licence, and increasing the sentence of imprisonment can be taken,“ he said.
 
