For   member Annie Sally from Ernakulam, the concept of art meant copying a picture on to paper, or at the most, copying a photo. 

 Until she was taken to the   recently. “I was amazed by the patience and creativity of the artists. What struck me the most was a work which depicted a bathroom, entirely made of waste paper,” she says. Annie was one of the 42 Kudumbashree members who were chosen to be part of the art camp  , held recently at the Kochi-Muziris Biennale premises, a collaboration with Kudumbashree.
 
  The women ranged in age from 26 to 48 and were mostly homemakers. They stayed at the camp for 5-10 days, where they attended classes by renowned artists. “I had only heard about the Biennale though I’m from Kochi and it was the first time I was actually seeing all the works. It was truly a wonder world to us. The kind of paint used in each work, and the context in which a work was made were all explained to us. We learnt that there is more than one way to transfer a thought on to paper,” says Annie.
 
  Three women were selected from each district in Kerala, after conducting a competition of sorts, where they were asked to submit some of their works. It was a chance discussion with artist Riyaz Komu which led to the birth of the project, which aims at communicating different perspectives of women to society through art, says Shine, one of the co-ordinators.
 
  But being talented in art didn’t mean that the women were all active in the field. Says Shailaja PJ from Vandipperiyar, Idukki, “I’m an artist and have been learning drawing for the past four years. But the majority of the women who attended the camp hadn’t touched the pencil after marriage, even those who had won certificates in their younger days. For them, this was a great opportunity with which they could watch each other draw and realise where exactly they stand. Just seeing the Biennale itself was a life-changing experience for them. We could meet renowned artists and interact too,” she says.
 
  However, it was not easy for the women to convince their families to stay in a camp and learn about art. Not surprisingly, many of them faced stiff opposition from the families who even refused to pick their calls while they were at the camp. But gradually curiosity got the better of them and family members started contacting the women. “They wanted to know who took the class that day and what was taught,” recalls Annie.
 
 Thus the biggest takeaway, says artist Bhagyanath, who conducted some of the classes, was that the women left with more courage and confidence to take up a pencil and canvas next time. “There is a common belief in Kerala that after an age, women are not supposed to ‘waste’ their time on art. ‘Won’t people make fun of us?’ was the first misgiving of the women. The second issue was whether they were doing it right. There are no rules in art, we told them. You decide what is right and wrong. We taught them that art has no boundaries – that there are different areas in art, like photography. They all left with the determination to do what they wanted, the way they wanted, without fearing what people would think,” he says.
 
  The camp, however, is not the end and just the beginning, say the organisers. As a follow up, they will be attending a second camp in April where they will actually create the works. Says Manu Jose, coordinator of the event, “The second camp will be at the Pepper House. Those 10 days they will make art works in the morning. During the evenings they can interact with artists, watch good movies etc. We are also planning a professional exhibition of their works at one of the Biennale venues.”
 
  The aim, says Shine, is to make it a continuous process which will take place every year, not just as part of the Biennale.
  And the women, apparently, can’t wait for the camp in April. Says Shailaja, “Until now, the only focus of the Kudumbashree was eradication of poverty and self-help for women. But now it is pushing women to the forefront in the fields of art and culture too for which we are greatly indebted. After the camp, we send each other whatever works we do on Whatsapp. I encourage them to put on canvas their thoughts and dreams. This is just the beginning of our journey, the first step.”
 
  The experience has brought them closer and has made them think about art, says Asha from Wayanad. “There were six of us from Wayanad and it was beyond our imagination to be at the Biennale. Until then we hadn’t given much thought to a work of art. We worked with clay and lots of other materials. Every year we wish to make this happen.”
 
  And most importantly, the women were happier as they left, points out artist Bhagyanath. “They all wanted to come again and all were happy when they went back. Art always infuses a kind of energy into your life and that energy can influence other spheres of life too.” 
  
 
