NOIDA: The Noida police have sought formation of a   (SIT) after filing an FIR against   on six charges including cheating, breach of trust and forgery. 

 On the basis of a complaint filed by a Ghaziabad resident, Amit Kishore Jain, who had invested Rs 1,72,500 on behalf of himself, his wife and daughter for the publishing plan of Rs 57,500, an FIR was registered on Sunday evening. Jain said that totally there were six IDs of his family members.
 
 The complaint lodged at the Sector 20 police station has attracted IPC sections of 406 (breach of trust), 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery of purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document) and Section 66 of the IT Act.
 
 “An FIR has been lodged after preliminary investigation by the cyber crime cell. We are trying to look into the magnitude of the complaint since only one complaint has come so far. Reports in the media about lakhs of investors involved will be verified,” ASP Gaurav Grover told TOI.
 
 He said the complainant would be called for recording of his statement on Tuesday.
 
 Police sources said that a letter seeking the formation of the SIT has been sent to the ADG (crime) Lucknow, Abhay Prasad, and the team could be formed within a day.
 
 In his complaint, Jain has alleged that the company stopped making partial payment to all the six IDs after January 3 and suddenly stopped making payments.
 
 “The company stopped sending “advertisement clicks” to all my user IDs. Many times the company website remained closed/switched off and when we visited their office where the company staff/directors misbehaved with me — abused me and my wife and threatened to kill me if I raised my voice again. We were returned home in fear,” reads the complaint accessed by TOI.
 
 Jain also alleged that the company had hired a gang of 200-300 people who used to persuade “innocent people” to take more and more user IDs.
 
 Meanwhile, the investors have started receiving WhatsApp messages from the company directors.
 
 Calls and messages to company directors Anubhav Garg and Sandesh Verma from this correspondent went unanswered.
 
 
