'Udta Punjab' star   says he never faced stepmotherly treatment in Bollywood. 

 Diljit, who is a name to reckon with in Punjabi cinema, made a successful Bollywood debut last year with 'Udta Punjab' and is now gearing up for the release of his second Hindi film ' '. 
 
 The actor-singer says everyone in the film industry treats him with respect and he has had a wonderful experience so far. "I have never faced it (discrimination) nor has anybody tried to do bad to me. Whoever I met, they greeted me with respect and love. I never felt any camp system here," said Diljit. 
 
 Asked what he thinks about the camp system in Bollywood, he said, "Yes, when you make films you can have your 'team'. One team is making a film like this, another will make a different film." 
 
  
  
 While 'Udta Punjab' featured another male actor,  , 'Phillauri' too features another male lead besides Diljit - 'Life of Pi' actor Suraj Sharma. However, Diljit said he doesn't ponder over the number of actors featuring in a film with him and instead, looks for a good story. "I want to do movies with great stories. The content should be strong. I have no problem if there are several actors with me. The number of artistes can vary but the content should be good. I have no such desire (to be solo)," he said. 
 
 He further added, "I look at the story and see what I have got to do in the film. Sometimes the story is great, set-up is good but there isn't much for you to do. I don't want to do that." 
 
 While he was paired opposite 
  in his Bollywood debut, in 'Phillauri', he will be seen opposite 
 . "They both are huge artistes and extremely dedicated to their work. I have seen Kareena ma'am work really hard for her role. Same goes for Anushka ma'am. Another advantage for Anushka is that she is the producer as well," he said. 
 
 "It's a big achievement to come from a non-filmy background, do good films and set up her own production house. On the sets, I never felt she was also the producer. But still, she prepared for her role really well." 
 
 Having worked in both Hindi and 
 , Diljit feels there is hardly any difference between the two industries. 
 
 "Most of the Punjabi directors, music composers are here because it's easy here," he said.
 
  
  
  
  
  
