KOLKATA: Now you can pay   or   from your home or from anywhere, even while travelling.   on Thursday kicked off e-Vahan, the online portal through which one can pay road tax, registration fees and can also enter data on vehicles sold. “The service is now available in Kolkata Metropolitan Area (KMA). March 31 is the deadline set for the rest of Bengal to offer same services,” said Adhikari in presence of the mayor Sovan Chatterjee, who is also the environment and disaster management minister.

 Apart from bringing in transparency, e-Vahan will develop a robust and reliable database on vehicles. There will be no scope for manipulation. There will be greater realization of revenue and the hassle people face will completely be done away with. There will be real-time report and improved monitoring, said principal secretary (transport) Alapan Bandyopadhyay. Moreover, once e-Vahan data stored in the local server of respective regional transport offices is integrated with the main server, several issues can be resolved.
 
 E-Vahan was introduced in pilot mode at PVD, Kasba office in October 2016. A roadmap of rolling out the service in the state was prepared. All motor vehicles related data of motor vehicles offices in KMA was migrated to the e-Vahan database. E-Vahan will eliminate the requirement, management and maintenance of multiple local database or server. All database can be accessed through internet. There will be no scope for local failure, data loss or inconsistency.
 
 E-Vahan is web-based and will be linked to portals where of approval authorities like ARAI, CIRT, manufacturers, insurance companies, financers. So there will be exchange or sharing data pertaining to vehicles. Data entry will be much less and the data will be up-to-date and reliable. Since the e-Vahan of the state will be integrated with the central e-Vahan server, there will be immediate implementation of changes in act, rules and notifications in the national database, said a   officer.
 
 National Informatics Centre (NIC) undertook development of new software for national database of motor vehicles and it took shape during the early part of 2016. 
 
 
