Kolkata: Forty-eight hours after they met Union home minister  , the CID on Friday arrested three top Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leaders owing allegiance to the Bimal Gurung faction from Gurgaon, bordering Delhi. Roshan Giri, GJM’s number two, escaped by a whisker.

 The arrested trio —   legal cell chairman and chief adviser to its trade union wing Tilak Chand Roka, Darjeeling municipality chairman Dhan Kumar Pradhan and GJM central committee member P S Ola — were intercepted while on their way to meet Darjeeling MP and Union minister S S Ahluwalia on Friday morning. The CID team had been camping in the national capital for a week, waiting for an opportunity to apprehend the GJM leaders who had gone there to meet central ministers.
 
 “We had carried out a raid at Sector 56 in Gurgaon, Haryana. It was based on a definite tip-off. Three GJM leaders have been arrested and are being flown back to Kolkata. A section of officers is staying back in Delhi to try and nab the other wanted men,” said ADG (CID)  . The cops in Gurgaon had responded to the CID request and taken them to a flat within a housing complex where several Haryana leaders also stay.
 
 Minutes after the arrest, Gurung released an audio tape from an undisclosed location to record his defiance. “These arrests were done at the behest of Binay Tamang and Anit Thapa. We know arrests are the last weapon in this government’s arsenal. It is sad for I had sent them to engage the Centre in tripartite talks. For agitations of this nature, arrests are unavoidable. It is the people who have backed the strike. The agitation will continue,” he said. 
 
 This was the second recorded message that Gurung released on Friday. A little before the news of arrests broke, Gurung had released the first message in which he had talked about the team in Delhi apprising the Centre of the “atrocities carried out by the   government”. 
 
 Some believe the arrest of three key leaders will break GJM resistance. Others feel it could become a rallying point for the embattled leaders to carry on. Giri was lucky to escape, having left for the meeting shortly before others. While he is wanted in three UAPA cases, those arrested on Friday have been charged under 26 different sections of IPC that are relatively less harsh than the UAPA. The charges include attempt to murder, rioting with arms, promoting enmity between different groups, assault or criminal force to deter public servant, mischief by fire and explosive substance, criminal conspiracy and damaging public property. 
 
 Cops claimed they furnished arrest warrants to Delhi Police and sought help to arrest Giri & Co but got no help. 
 
