KOLKATA: It was a cakewalk for   Chhatra Parishad in the   union elections held on Saturday across the four campuses of College Street, Rajabazar, Ballygunge and Alipore. In the 140 seats contested, SFI and DSO (the students’ wing of SUCI) fought a neck-and-neck battle as each claimed to have won 15 seats and 14 seats respectively. TMCP won the remaining 111 seats.

 In all, there are 840 seats on eight campuses of CU. Of which 673 were won uncontested by the TMCP. DSO reportedly won seven seats uncontested. While contests were held in 140 seats on Saturday, no contest was held in the remaining 20 seats.
 
 Surprisingly, the “none of the above” (Nota) option introduced by the officials for the first time in the elections this year failed to impress the students. “Not even a sizeable portion of ballots were cast in favour of Nota,” said a CU official.
 
 Dhruba Ranjan Dandapat, the returning officer in CU elections, said, “140 class representatives have been elected on Saturday. In Rashbehari Shiksha Prangan ( ), only one seat was contested, while in Taraknath Palit Shiksha Prangan ( ), 12 were contested. At the Shahid Khudiram Shiksha Prangan (Alipore), 49 seats were contested and in the Asutosh Shiksha Prangan (College Street), 78 CR posts were contested. Earlier, 680 seats (673 by TMCP and 7 by DSO) were won uncontested in absence of an opposition.”
 
 The opposition claimed that the union polls on various campuses of CU on Saturday was a “farce”. “Only committed voters came to cast their votes. Where there is no atmosphere of holding a free and fair election, question of casting Nota votes does not arise. Till Friday night, nominations were withdrawn over alleged faction feud in TMCP camp. Earlier, several of our nominations were intentionally cancelled. We failed to put up candidates in many posts,” alleged SFI state president Madhuja Sen Roy.
 
 “The election on four CU campuses on Saturday were peaceful. I visited Rajabazar Science College during the polling. There was tight security this year. We also made sure that only students who entered the campuses within noon were allowed to cast their votes. CCTVs installed on all campuses kept a strict vigil,” said registrar Soma Bandyopadhyay. The Rajabazar campus, which was once a strong SFI bastion, has beem under TMCP’s control since 2014.
 
 “I-cards of students were snatched, candidates were forced to submit nominations, and there were continuous threats by TMCP in the classrooms. Had the union elections been held in a democratic process, the results would have been different. Elections are just a farce. We won 14 seats on Saturday through contests and had earlier won another 7 seats uncontested,” said Bapi Halder, spokesperson of DSO, CU unit.
 
 TMCP, however, denied all claims made by the opposition. “SFI won only two seats. TMCP has won 750 out of total 840 seats. All allegations of violence and threats are baseless. We have the support of majority students on CU campuses,” claimed state TMCP president Jaya Dutta. The seats on other four campuses were won uncontested as a result of which no contest was held there on Saturday.
 
