NASHIK: They also serve who only stand and wait, is not proving too well for the pedestrians in the city who are waiting since three years for the civic administration to make the footpaths more user-friendly.

 While the city continues to observe No Vehicle Day, Cycle Day and Odd-Even Day, no priority has been given to those on foot. Improper and uneven construction, encroachments, garbage and parking on the pavements are a common sight on the city’s footpaths on any given day, even as pedestrians try to avoid the obstructions while walking.
 
 Three years back, the Nashik Municipal Corporation ( ) officials had assured that the existing footpaths would be cleared of obstructions and be made usable while new footpaths would be constructed across the city which would be user-friendly. The years have passed, but the civic administration has done nothing about the pavements.
 
 The NMC has a number of footpaths on most of the roads across the city, but most of them are unusable. Moreover, prime locations like MG Road that is visited by many pedestrians often lacks a footpath. Near Central Bus Stand, there is a footpath only on one side, which is also encroached by street vendors. Similar is the case near the Zilla Parishad office, where the footpaths are used for parking the vehicles including that of government officials. On  , the footpaths are not usable at all.
 
 “Given the kind of climate the city experiences, it can be a pleasure to walk around here but the quality of footpaths makes it a nightmare for us to walk on the city roads. In the last 10 years, the nightmare has only become more worse. Till few decades back, it used to be a delight walking here. Even now if we have proper footpaths, the problem can be resolved,” said a senior citizen,  .
 
 A civic official said, “We are conducting anti-encroachments drives on a regular basis. Soon, the hawker’s zones will also be in place.”
 
 User-friendly road plan: Admitting to the plaints that the footpaths in the city are not usable, municipal commissioner Abhishek Krishna said that the civic body will soon be working towards it.
 
 “For all the infrastructure issues including designing of roads, we will soon appoint an urban street designer. On an experimental basis, we will take up a few streets of the city and gradually cover the rest of the roads. It will take some time but the process will start soon. We have already consulted with ITDC,” said Krishna. He said that CREDAI has agreed to contribute to the project and that the road designing is not only for footpaths but for all issues related to good roads.
 
 “We will have cycle tracks wherever possible, but the important focus for us is the pedestrian and vehicular movement. Nashik is not a very populated city, but the problem is that the traffic is not managed properly,” Krishna said.
 
 What the rule says?
 
 There is no written rule for footpaths but under the Maharashtra Municipal Corporations Act, it is the duty of the civic body to provide all the amenities to the citizens. It is a right of the pedestrians. This has already been mentioned in Article 21 of the Constitution of India. The Motor Vehicles Act (1988), section 138 clause (H and I) empowers the state government to prevent motor vehicles from using the pavements to drive or park. The Municipal Corporations Act also protects the roads saying that all the obstructions on the roads are illegal. The Indian Road   (1988) and documents like the Urban Design Plan Formulation and Implementation (1996) have mentioned standardizing pedestrian infrastructure based on the traffic patterns. While the   (2006) mentions provisions for pedestrians, it is not mandatory as yet.
 
