MUMBAI: A   of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSOA) court recently sentenced a 34-year-old man to   for raping his 10-year-old daughter at their residence in 2014. 

 The child's testimony along with that of her mother and brother helped the prosecution nail the accused. "Being the father, it is his duty to protect the victim, but in this case, he himself committed such heinous crime on his own daughter, which is very shameful," the court observed.
 
 The court said considering the gravity of offence and relation between the victim and accused, no leniency could be shown. It also held that the victim's testimony was corroborated by the medical evidence which showed that she was sexually assaulted. 
 
 On the day of the incident on June 15, 2014, the victim's mother had gone to Gujarat to drop as her brother to a hostel there. The victim and her sister were alone at home with their father. 
 
 On August 4, 2014 the son revealed to his mother that the victim, on his previous visit to home, had confided in him about the sexual assault. The mother told the court that she immediately confronted her husband and informed relatives, who arrived home and physically assaulted the accused. She further stated that without responding to the allegations, the accused left home and did not return for the next two days. 
 
 On August 6, 2014 the mother filed a complaint with the police, following which the accused was arrested. 
 
  Refuting the defence allegations in the cross examination, the victim denied that she had falsely implicated him on the insistence of her mother, who had long-standing dispute with the father. The court also denied the defence suggestions that the mother of the victim was in a relationship with someone and hence made false allegations against her husband. 
 
  Referring to the testimonies of the the victim and her brother who deposed against their father, the court said, "No child can support illicit relation of their parents. There is also medical evidence which corroborated victim's version." 
 
 
