NAGPUR: Coming to the rescue of lakhs of married women, who don’t like to live in traditional way or follow the age-old traditions, but were forced to do it for their husbands, the Nagpur bench of   ruled that not wearing   all the time, or covering head with pallu, can’t be grounds for divorce.

 The court dismissed husband’s plea who demanded divorce contending that wife used to often remove vermilion and Mangalsutra to irk him. He said, she also never used to cover her head with sari’s pallu, as per tradition in their family.
 
 “In 21st century, a man would not be entitled to seek a divorce solely on the ground that his wife doesn’t cover head with the pallu of her sari and sometimes removes Mangalsutra and vermilion from her forehead. A woman can’t be expected to cover her head with a pallu in this century. In any case, that can’t be a ground for divorce. Merely because a woman sometimes removes her Mangalsutra and vermilion, a man can’t seek the severance of matrimonial ties,” the division bench comprising justice   and justice   held.
 
 The city-based couple entered into a wedlock on June 21, 1995, and a daughter was born on August 29, 1996. However both used to be at loggerheads under one or other pretext. The husband claimed that wife had ego problems and used to show him in bad taste in front of their daughter. The wife left matrimonial home on January 2, 2000, with her daughter, after their differences grew. The husband claimed that despite best efforts for reconciliation, wife behaved adamantly and decided to desert him. 
 
 Subsequently, he moved to the family court for dissolution of marriage. It was, however, dismissed on May 31, 2011, observing that the wife never deserted him and didn’t leave matrimonial home on her own, but was compelled to do so.
 
 The husband challenged it before higher judiciary contending that since they are residing separately for more than 16 years, it would be necessary to dissolve the marriage between them. He contended that it’s possible for them to reside happily in the matrimonial home and hence a decree of divorce should be passed. 
 
 The judges observed that the man, in his petition running into many pages, stressed on only two aspects, that wife never used to cover head with pallu and used to remove the vermilion from her forehead and Mangalsutra, with a view to irk him. All that had caused tremendous agony and pain to him, he claimed.
 
 “There is nothing else, either in the pleadings or evidence of husband or any of his family members or neighbours to show that wife treated him with cruelty. We find that the family court was justified in holding that wife neither treated husband with cruelty nor deserted him. Therefore, the husband wouldn’t be entitled for divorce on the ground of cruelty and desertion,” the judges ruled.
 
