BHOPAL: If you want to see gender equality in ‘action’, do visit Indore. This is where women flex muscles.

 The state’s commercial capital hosted its first   competition on Sunday, and you had to be there to believe it. On this stage, ‘perfect figure’ meant rippling biceps, quadriceps and six-pack abs. Coming less than a month after an all-woman mud wrestling dangal, Indore is punching way above its weight in the fight for gender equality.
 
 The audience watched in awe as women bodybuilders from across the country flexed their muscles at the 7th National Bodybuilding and Fitness Competition held at the basketball complex on Sunday evening. Hundreds of Indoreans turned up to watch the competition, which had four categories — women bodybuilding and physical challenge, differently-abled, junior and master men.
 
 The mix of the crowd was an indicator of the change quietly sweeping Indore society. “I came here with my daughter to motivate her to lead a fit life. Looking at these female bodybuilders, I am sure she will get motivated to work out,” said Vaishali Bhagat, a yoga instructor from the city. 
 
 There was only one competitor from Indore, Aditi Ahlawat, but TOI spotted quite a few girls inspired by the show of strength.
 
 “It is expensive in terms of diet and equipment needed. It is time consuming, in an age when people have very little time. Most of all it is hard work. It takes time, effort, discipline and plenty of determination to reach the levels of fitness and strength required to compete. It’s great that the competition was held in Indore so that people here can also know about female bodybuilding,” said Aditi.
 
 Some girls looking to take up bodybuilding were happy to see that the trend of muscle fitness is picking up in Indore.
 
 Manipur dominated the medal tally with T Sarita winning gold and   getting bronze. Maharashtra’s   came second. Another Maharashtrian, Leela Phad, came fourth, followed by Thangjam Leima from Manipur. In the physique sports category, Maharashtra’s star athlete Shweta Rathore bagged the first spot.
 
