NAGPUR: Under pressure from locals, who are   and have backing of some local Congress leaders, the Deolapar police registered FIR against two range forest officers (RFOs) late Monday night.

 The FIR against the two RFOs comes a day before the district and session’s judge, Nagpur, is to hear the forest department application challenging bail to all the 16 accused involved in poaching of five tigers in and around Pench Tiger Reserve.
 
 According to reliable sources, the FIR was registered against RFOs Pandurang Pakhale & Nilesh Gawande at 11.22pm by PI Suresh   after pressure from locals, who had planned a morcha on Tuesday to police station and even threatened to set it afire.
 
 Nagpur SP Shailesh Balkawde denied the charge. He said the complaint was lodged by accused Devidas Kumre on September 5. As PI Mattani was chairing a meeting at the police station related to crime on Monday night, he registered FIR after the meeting. 
 
 “We never take every FIR at its face value and it is also not necessary that a charge sheet is filed for every FIR. Many a time, FIRs are false. We are collecting all relevant papers from forest officials as well as GMCH regarding Kumre’s case and, only based on these evidences, further action will be taken,” said Balkawde.
 
 When pointed out that Kumre was the main accused from whom 12kg tiger bones were seized on June 26, Balkawde, who is also chairman of district tiger cell, said even if this may be true, as per law, accused has every right to register a FIR.
 
 Kumre has alleged that he was beaten in custody and hence suffered fracture in leg. “We are collecting all papers related to this allegation,” the SP added.
 
 However, as reported by TOI, the accused has already given in writing that he fell while attempting to flee. In court too, he has admitted before the judge that he was not beaten. He had also told the doctors that fell while running.
 
 Wildlife conservationists have termed the police action as bias. “The accused, backed by local Congress leaders, are basically involved in illegal fishing in Pench. These leaders seem to have vested interest in the case. There are several links to tiger poaching and the accused don’t want further probe to get rid of all hassles. They feel if the two RFOs are removed, the case will die a natural death,” said honorary wildlife warden Kundan Hate.
 
 “It is really sad that police acted in a haste and filed FIR even before collecting evidence. No say of forest officials was taken before registering FIR. Let law take its own course and allow officials to probe the case freely,” added Sanjay Deshpande of Srushti Paryavaran Mandal.
 
 The police have slapped sections 326 (Voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) against the two officials. 
 
