BAREILLY: Two sons of a local priest allegedly lured an 11-year-old girl to their room situated in the temple premises and gang-raped her nearly 15 days ago. A friend of the men made a video clip of the incident. The parents of the minor girl lodged an FIR late on Sunday night after they learnt about it.
 
  The incident came to light on the day when one of the priest’s sons was caught in a compromising position with a woman in the temple premises. Locals caught the couple red-handed and informed the police. One of the men has been arrested in the gang rape case while the other is absconding.
  
  According to police, residents of Ujhani in Badaun caught a couple in a compromising position in the temple premises on Sunday night. Both of them were drunk. “The woman claimed that it was a consensual act and refused to register a police complaint. However, as the couple was caught in public, they have been booked under section 294 (obscene act in public place) of the IPC,” said  , senior superintendent of police, Badaun. He added that residents of the area claimed that the youth, Amit, who is the son of the temple priest, is a habitual offender.
  
  Hours later, the 11-year-old’s parents approached the police claiming that priest’s sons — Amit and   — had gang-raped their daughter nearly 15 days ago. According to the complainant, the girl had gone to the temple when the duo had lured her to their room situated in the premises. The kin of the minor girl alleged that the brothers’ friend,  , made a video clip of the gang-rape. The family of the girl claimed that the priest,  , and his wife,  , reportedly threatened the girl to keep quiet and not report the incident to police.
  
  On receiving the complaint, police lodged an FIR against Amit and Nikki for gang rape and also under POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act. Cops also registered an FIR against Uvaidh for filming the act and the priest and his wife for issuing threats.
  
  “We have arrested Amit while Nikki, who is absconding, will be nabbed soon. The medical examination of both the minor girl and woman has been conducted and the report is awaited,” said Prakash. He added, “The minor girl was gang-raped around 15 days ago but her kin gave a police complaint on Sunday night after they learnt that the accused persons have a video of the incident.”
