PUNE: Divisional railway manager ( ) D K Dadabhoy on Friday said he had used the term “anti-national” to describe those who stopped Deccan Queen “in a   sense” and didn’t mean them to be guilty of treason.

 The senior railway officer had stirred up a storm on Wednesday, saying the act of stopping Deccan Queen for an hour on July 10 was an anti-national activity and was unpardonable. Four women have been arrested so far for the action. 
 
 Dadabhoy said it was only a coincidence that only some women were arrested, as their male counterparts have till now not turned up at the station till now.
 
 “I still stand by the statement. I had used the term in the broader   and I never meant that these people are guilty of treason. The nation faces losses if any train is stopped. It means a lot of problems for many passengers. We are here to work and serve the nation. The statement was used by me in this context and I stand by it,” he said on the sidelines of the formal inauguration of the newly built entry gate and ramp.
 
 On allegations that some railway officials, including RPF and GRP men and TTEs, were indulging in bribery, Dadabhoy said, “Accepting bribe is a serious criminal offencem no matter how much be the amount. But forcefully stopping a train cannot solve it.”
 
 Pune MP Anil Shirole, who inaugurated the ramp, chose to stay out of the controversy. “Every government official works in his way. And I was out of town when the incident happened,” he said.
 
 During his short speech, the BJP leader compared Dadabhoy to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Ever since the   is here, there has been a change in the Pune railways. He works with zeal and has a creative mind, just like our PM. He thinks positive,” the MP said.
 
 The new gate is approximately 20m wide and provides easy access to the station. “This main gate entry also has pick-up and drop facility for hassle-free movement of passengers. An amount of Rs 14.38 lakh has been received for provision of 80 steel benches at Pune and Shivajinagar stations. Besides, Rs 51.92 lakh has been approved for basic amenities in the circulating area of the goods shed of Pune. The second entry will be formally inaugurated by the railway minister soon,” the DRM said.
 
 
