NAGPUR: A day after a fire broke out at  , affected traders claimed property loss of around Rs1.50 crore as 42 shops were reduced to ashes. The traders estimated that the vegetables that were charred in the blaze could have been consumed by about 25,000 families. This is apart from   that were destroyed.

  claimed that had the fire broken out in the late evening on Saturday, there could have been casualties. They also alleged that the   had ignored for years their pleas for adequate arrangements to tackle emergencies such as this one.
 
 Chief fire officer   refuted the charges, saying that 11 fire tenders under his supervision had doused the fire within an hour after receiving the call at 5pm. “Four fire tenders fought the flames from four corners. Around 70,000 litres of water was used to douse the fire. Had we failed, the loss would be have been greater,” he said.
 
 Among the worst hit was trader Jeetendra Bangde, who said he lost property more than Rs five lakh including Rs2.74 lakh cash. Another trader Gopalrao Patte claimed having lost vegetables worth around Rs two lakh, as did Hemant Dhawde. Vijay Khandar said he lost vegetables worth Rs around Rs1.5 lakh. The traders said their loss would not be reimbursed as they cannot have insurance for some ‘technical reasons.’
 
 Though the fire department’s probe is still on, traders claimed that a short circuit at Nilesh Somkuwar’s shop may have triggered the fire.
 
 Sheikh Hussain, secretary of the local vegetable and fruit brokers’ association, said that fire tenders reached the place after an hour’s delay and also struggled to douse flames due to shortage of water. He also claimed that there used to be more than half a dozen water taps in the market, but they were removed during concretization of roads.
 
 “Had the fire department reacted promptly, our losses would have been lower,” he said. “Where are the substantial funds collected in 2004 when 800 traders had coughed up Rs10,500 each for re-development of the market? Then there are a number of taxes collected by the agricultural produce market committee from us. The high court, too, had pulled up the then civic body chief Shyam Wardhane for ignoring its directions to develop the market on which around 25,000 persons depend directly or indirectly for a living,” he said.
 
