KHARAGPUR: The assistant public prosecutor in the   murder case received a threat call on Sunday evening, asking him to quit the case or face dire consequences. The threat may have been triggered by the police’s plan to turn one of the eight arrested in the case into an approver. On Monday, two of the arrested and a witness will record their statements before a magistrate.

 Syed Nazim Habib, who is representing the   case of Kharagpur don Srinivas, alias Srinu, said his wife Ritu Shome, a teacher at Sagar Mahavidyalaya, received a call asking her to go to   with her husband if she wished to save her job. The caller then asked for Habib and told him to quit the case and head for the fair. “He (the caller) spoke in Bengali. After I filed a police complaint, another call came from the same number at 9.20pm but she did not answer it,” he told TOI.
 
 Among those arrested following the shootout on Thursday are Shankar Rao, who police believe planned the assault,  , a money lender at whose house the murder was planned and Nanda Das. Interrogations are on to ascertain the mastermind behind the attack and whether the motive was political or a fallout of gang rivalry.
 
 Rao and Francis though nursed a personal grudge against Srinu. Earlier Srinu had threatened Rao who led a rival gang to which Francis also belonged. Rao used to work for another don Basab Rambabu before breaking away and forming his own gang.
 
 On Saturday, SP Bharati Ghosh said police were trying to identify the brain behind the attack, hinting the police believe the accused acted on someone’s behest. The names of a rival mafia don as well as a one-time associate of Srinu have been doing the rounds since the murder.
 
 Meanwhile, Srinu’s wife Pooja changed her statement a day after blaming BJP state president Dilip Ghosh for her husband’s death. On Sunday, she said she didn’t know who was behind the attack but it could be someone known to Srinu. “It seems the person who ordered his killing was known to Srinu. I will wait for the investigation report before filing an FIR,” she said. 
 
 Ghosh, however, had dismissed Pooja’s allegation, saying they were baseless.
 
 
