NAGPUR: A day before the city votes to decide who will rule at the   for the next five years, candidates remained busy in informal meetings and forming teams for booth management, on Monday. Even after a fortnight of hectic campaigning, many were seen pushing the envelope.

 TOI visited many areas on Monday and found candidates visiting some pockets of their constituencies and seeking people’s support in an informal manner. They also held meetings with their workers to chalk out   day strategy. Candidates and their family members assigned duties to the workers for booth management and garnering maximum votes in their favour. 
 
 The booth agents were also given training so that they could keep a tab on bogus voting, said a few candidates while speaking to TOI. 
 
 Candidates have deployed teams of 10-20 workers for every polling booth area. Those who have been assigned duties have been told not to leave their respective areas during the polling time — 7.30am to 5.30pm. 
 
 Major parties like the BJP, Congress, BSP, NCP and   have also assigned responsibilities to workers to ensure victory for their candidates.
 
 Mayor Pravin Datke, who is contesting from ward no. 18, has made teams of 10 workers each for polling booths in his ward. “I started my day by conducting a door-to-door campaign in several areas to cement my ties with the voters,” he said. He laid stress on meeting several citizen organizations.
 
 The three other candidates of his ward, which includes  , also held separate meetings with senior party workers and chalked out a strategy for the polling day so that there is no confusion among them regarding responsibilities.
 
 Congress candidate from ward no. 37 and city party president Vikas Thakre started his day by meeting people who demanded that he visit their colonies. Thakre met some residents individually and spent time in Subhash Nagar, Gopal Nagar, Swawlambi Nagar and other areas in his ward. 
 
 Thakre’s wife Vrunda and son Karan, a BE final student, too have a good rapport with people of the constituency and both remained busy on Monday.
 
 Senior corporator Abha Pande, who is a candidate from ward no. 21, spent her day meeting party workers and supporters. Pande, who started her day by visiting a temple, also met people whom she could not meet during canvassing in the past few days. She reviewed the polling day preparations and assigned duties to the teams which will be deputed at poll booths. As part of booth management, she has fielded teams in every polling booth area.
 
 Nationalist   candidate and ex-corporator Vedprakash Arya sent vigilance squads across ward no. 1 to deter any potential distribution of money by rival candidates.
 
 “The real test is today. A fortnight of campaigning has generated positive results. People across the ward know that they have to choose a leader who will work for them. Today is the day when we have to ensure that no one gets wooed the wrong way,” said Arya.
 
 Aam Aadmi Shahar Vikas Manch candidate Kiran Thakre sought help of social organizations in ward no. 18 to ensure maximum support from people. She met office-bearers of some community organizations, social organizations and minorities in the area.
 
