 has an eccentric sense of style and pulls off her every avant-garde look like a true diva. The actress has sported some gorgeous saris that we are absolutely in love with. Styled by Ami Patel, here's a look at her most amazing sari looks that'll leave you inspired! 

  
 1. Kangana picked this chequered sari from Péro along with an elbow-length sleeved blouse. She completed her look with classic gold earrings and side-swept curls.
 
  
  
 2. The actress looked like a dream in this floral Péro saree and bombarded everyone with vintage vibes. Keeping it subtle and elegant, Kangana opted for elegant earrings and a pair of jootis.
 
  
  
 3. With this look, Kangana took her sari game to next level. She was wearing a Falguni and   sari with a sheer yoke blouse. This one is surely one of her most glamorous looks ever. 
 
  
  
 4. Kangana again made heads turn with this heart-motif handwoven sari by Galang Gabaan. Her puffed-sleeves blouse, dangling earrings and curly locks rounded out her look. Pretty, isn't it? 
 
  
  
 5. It is difficult to describe this look in words. Kangana looked surreal in this nude net floral embellished sari by Abu Jani-Sandeep Khosla. Pairing it with an embellished blouse and diamond earrings, only Kangana could pull off this look. 
 
  
 
 6. Simple and elegant, Kangana pulled off this gorgeous Manish Malhotra sari with a shimmery blouse. She has kept accessories to a bare minimum with just earrings, and we are quite in love with little 
  that has drawn all the attention.
 
  
  
 7. She is bombarding us with vintage vibes in this look. The handcrafted sari by Sabyasachi speaks drama, and the elbow-length sleeved blouse further adds elegance to the look. A simple chignon, stud earrings and vampy lipsticks, Kangana looks like a muse!
 
  
  
 8. Give this Madhurya sari a close look, and you will spot a super-adorable doggy print! Kangana has completed her look with simple earrings, few bangles, and a little flower in her bun.
 
  
  
 9. Another Kangana's signature look. Side-swept curls, simple earrings and a gorgeous sari.
 
  
  
 10. Is there something called sari goals?! The colour combination of pink and dull gold never looked this beautiful in a 
  sari.
 
  
 
