AHMEDABAD:   police suspects there is a conspiracy behind government employee   throwing a shoe at minister of state (home)   on the   campus on Thursday.

 Etaliya, who was arrested on the spot, was on Friday produced before a Gandhinagar court. The court remanded him in police custody for two days, on the grounds that the cops wanted to explore whether there was a conspiracy behind the incident.
 
 On Friday, Gandhinagar police questioned several persons including a senior journalist employed with a local daily on the basis of contacts found on Etaliya's cell phone.
 
 “The journalist's number was found on Etaliya's call list and we called the journalist for questioning. We were satisfied by his answers as he was inside the assembly when the shoe was thrown,“ added a senior police official. The police remand application stated that they wanted to interrogate Etaliya to know who he was in contact with before the incident.According to police sources, during his interrogation Etaliya said that he was against a system in which corruption and unemployment thrives. “He maintains he threw the shoe on his own and not at the instance of anyone else. He said he was frustrated with the corruption within the system which has resulted in unemployment of youths“ added a senior police official. Meanwhile, senior police officials questioned the mental health of Etaliya, a former police constable, and said that Etaliya was earlier arrested by Ahmedabad city crime branch for making a phone call to deputy CM   and posing as a police constable, despite him having left the before that. Police officials said they wanted to probe if he threw the shoe at the home minister at someone's behest.
 
 In his recorded phone call with Patel, Etaliya had asked how the government expects strict action against bootleggers when a strong cop-bootlegger nexus exists. He was heard speaking of the difficulties of fixed-pay workers in the recording, which went viral on social media. Top police officials said Etaliya had arrived at the Vidhan Sabha campus between 11.30am and noon, some 45 minutes before he threw the shoe at the MoS, who was about to brief the media.
 
