SURAT: If the diamonds were able to maintain their sparkle in the world’s biggest   in Surat, it was thanks to angadia (courier) business too. 

 The angadia firms of Patels from Mehsana very efficiently had been delivering diamonds and cash to their parties in Surat and even Mumbai day in and day out. All diamond traders and manufacturers in Surat and Mumbai ensured they had accounts with angadias who deliver diamonds and collect cash, keep the cash for diamantaires on their behalf, transfer from the account to those of other diamond dealers held with the same angadia, provide credits at terms above the banking rate and allow lenders to earn interest. However, all these are going to stop forever from February 15. The angadia firms have announced that they will stop accepting cash deliveries as per the instructions of   (CBDT). CBDT has warned that any angadia firm found with unaccounted cash over Rs 3 lakh will face action as this was hawala transaction and against the law, sources said.
 
 Industry experts believe the role of angadias who deliver diamonds and cash to their parties in Surat and Mumbai will be reduced. 
 
 “From around 12 angadias, now it has been reduced to just about one or two, and they act as courier service to remote places,” Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) regional chairman   said.
 
 Navadiya added, “For a few months, diamantaires, especially small and medium ones, will face hardships, but later things will be fine as they will be doing business through cheques, invoice and promissory notes. Angadias will only be courier for delivering diamonds and jewellery between Surat and Mumbai.”
 
 Industry sources said many small and medium diamond units and traders have formed their own companies and opened bank accounts. Many have officially started importing rough diamonds through their companies and paying their suppliers through RTGS. However, a few industry experts wondered about the fate of small traders and manufacturers who will find it difficult to enter the official system. 
 
 Diamond analyst   said, “Above the courier system, angadias were informal banks for small people. This will cease to exist after February 15. The small unit owners will face severe liquidity crunch to operate. Again, the dealings in cheque will delay the delivery of diamonds between Surat and Mumbai, because the seller will first deposit the cheque and wait for the clearance. The credit system in the industry, which is going on for the last many years, will be wiped out.” 
 
 Babu Patel, leader of angadia association in Surat, said, “We have no choice but to stop delivery of cash after the CBDT order. This is going to impact the industry on a very large scale.” 
 
