Ever wondered what happens when   also becomes IT City? You tend to hear about   that grow and sell their own vegetables.  , a Dolmur-based company, has converted a barren piece of land into an organic kitchen garden. There’s cabbage, spinach, tomato, sweet corn, okra, beans, carrot, beetroot, radish, bitter gourd, and coriander, among various others veggies to pick from. Depending on the harvest, once (sometimes, twice) a week, there is a vegetable ‘mandi’ inside the premises where employees can buy the fresh produce at a discount. At this two-decade-old IT firm, this has become a practice for the last three months.

 The idea towards greener initiative came when the company found that a 4-acre land adjacent to its office (owned by Sasken itself) wasn’t being utilised completely. “A cricket and basketball ground was in use, but an acre was vacant. Our CEO (Rajiv Mody) suggested that we do something to make it greener. By and by, we decided that we would use it to cultivate something,” says  , Head-Facility Management and IT Operations.
 
 Once the idea took shape, they started cleaning up the area, sent the soil for testing to a laboratory to check the pH value to determine the kind of vegetables that could be grown, after which they started planting carrots, beetroots, spinach, corn, etc.
 
 While the produce was initially given to the employees complimentary, it is now being sold at 20 per cent less than the market rate (they have a tie-up with HOPCOMS to help them determine the rate of the vegetables on the day of the mini-market), and the money received is pumped back into buying seeds, manure, setting up a rainwater harvesting plant. In fact, for this initiative, they’ve specifically employed two gardeners to manage the area. This is in addition to an existing five-member gardening team.
 
 “The produce is completely organic. We don’t use any chemicals or pesticides. We use sheep manure instead,” Dath says.
 
 When the initiative was announced, employees themselves were apprehensive as to whether they would be able to pull it off. “The manpower, the quality, whether we’d be able to grow it without pesticides – these were the questions being asked. But this initiative has proven that we have been able to channelise a vacant land into something meaningful, for employees and the environment,” says Anees Haidary Senior Manager, Business Excellence.
 
 “What I’ve noticed is that the spinach I buy here remains fresh up to a week because it’s organic. The regular greens available in the market don’t last more than two days. And 30-40 per cent of my vegetable shopping has come down since,” he says.
 
 The market has inspired Haidary to grow his own vegetables. “Six weeks ago, I replanted the spinach and use the crop that’s grown at home,” he says.
 
 Agrees Indira Kuppathil, Manager-Sales Operations, Business Operations has started growing vegetables in a small patch of land at her house. “I don’t throw away any peels. I’ve started growing beans and dhaniya. This took off from the initiative at office. And it’s also pushed me towards going organic,” she says.
 
 Employees have started connecting with nature. They are often seen heading towards the garden to see the progress of the vegetables. “Day-to-day stress is high. An environment-friendly initiative like this acts as a great stress-buster,” says S Patil, Assistant Manager, Facility Management.
 
 
