KOLKATA: The   district administration has imposed   under   at Rasapunja in Bakhrahat. This will prevent more than five people from assembling at any spot. The development comes on the same day that news channels   in the strife-torn Bhangar and   with the administration asking cable operators to switch off the channels in a bid to stem the cycle of violence.

 Till Thursday evening, three persons have been arrested for rioting and setting the police outpost on fire. More arrests are likely, claimed police sources adding no one involved in destroying public property will be spared. The administration though has sanctioned a compensation of Rs 2 lakh to all victims of Bakrahat and Bhangar.
 
 The twin decisions come after three days of recurring violence that was reported in the area following an accident that had claimed two lives. On Wednesday, despite the arrest of main accused Sk Kalu, the police outpost had been set on fire. Local business and schools in the area, including two international schools, will continue functioning normally. There was no report of fresh violence on Thursday. 
 
 Sources in the cable TV industry said senior officers from Lalbazar dialled multi-service operators (MSOs) on Wednesday evening and again on Thursday morning, asking them to blank out news content from homes in the violence affected areas of South 24-Parganas as it was fanning trouble.
 
 “The directive from the police is to stop telecast of   till the situation normalises. The police have reasoned that live telecast of the volatile situation in these areas is encouraging people to fan the violence,” a cable operator said, adding that all content other than news including entertainment and sports are available. In the past, too, news channels have been blanked out of trouble zones. But unlike the past when political parties issued the diktat, it is the administration that has acted official this time.
 
 Meanwhile, interrogation of Sk Kalu has revealed that he had never taken driving lessons. Kalu also claimed it was a friend at the wheel and he was merely present inside the car with two others. 
 
 
