BENGALURU: Articulate and brimming with ideas on the information technology portfolio he handles,  , at 39, is the second-rung of   leaders in the state. In an interview with STOI, Kharge said if B R Ambedkar's philosophy had been implemented in letter and spirit, there would have been a prabudh (enlightened) Bharat by view now.

 
 Ambedkar is one of the few founding fathers who has spoken vastly about the idea of India and how inclusive it should be. He has not just spoken about how India should be in the prevalent situation, but also in future.
 
 
 All this together probably becomes the democracy that we see now or the Constitution we deal with. It becomes really difficult to interpret Ambedkar's philosophy. We need to dive deeper and broaden our horizons to understand the true meaning of what he wanted India to be.
 
 
 Today's India is not what any of our founding fathers dreamt about. The narrative is not what they thought of in the Constitution. It is either my narrative or you are anti-national. There is the sense of right. Never in the history of India has thought process and social institutions, idea of liberty and freedom of religion been systematically destroyed.
 
 
 Why should I be disillusioned? There is a Constitution which has empowered us. But yes, the political and environmental narrative is not good. This will make us unite.
 
 
 There is some confusion about Neo-Buddhists, at least in our state. During the socioeconomic survey undertaken by our government, there was a discussion on this within the community. But the thought process is to unite all scheduled castes. Ambedkar embraced Buddhism because it preaches equality and brotherhood.
 
 
 There is no such serious confusion. If you come to my constituency, the scheduled castes pray to Buddha. These sub-castes have been created by us. Even in Islam or among Lingayats, there are many sub-castes, created by us for social or political reasons. Now Lingayats are asking for a separate religion, and happens to have several sub-castes. More than a policy change, it requires social change. Policies cannot dictate a religion.
 
 
 I will not hesitate to contest from a general constituency.But do you think the rest of the majority will vote for a 'capable' person or go for a 'community leader' in a general constituency?
 
 If reservation had been implemented in letter and spirit, based on our capabilities, we would have achieved something else. Untouchability is still practised and prevalent.
 
