NAGPUR: The frequent fires at   are pushing the city’s   to dangerously high levels. The   that rolls out of Bhandewadi is a danger to the health of residents in many nearby areas.

 The damage caused by the recent fire, which lasted for almost a week, and is yet to be doused completely, is so high that it is difficult to arrive at any figures, but we can only guesstimate. Various experts that TOI spoke to gave different opinions. However, the calculations done by them and TOI reveal that it was an environmental and health disaster of significant proportions.
 
 Experts say it is difficult to quantify the toxins released when municipal solid waste is burnt, without regular monitoring and a scientific study. Also, while not everyone will get the same dose of toxic elements, a conjecture of the potential exposure can be made. According to top sources in   (NMC), around 12,000 metric tonnes of waste was burnt in the fire. A senior professor of plastics and polymer technology said that 1kg plastic generates 3kg of carbon dioxide. Assuming that 12% of the waste consisted of plastic, the total carbon dioxide generated will be over 43.2L kilograms.
 
 While people living in the proximity of the dumping ground have been complaining about breathing problems, asthma, bronchitis, allergies and poor vision, experts warned that prolonged and repeated exposure to toxic gases can eventually lead to chronic diseases including cancer. “When waste, mainly plastic, is burned, dioxins and furans are emitted. They are extremely toxic and carcinogenic,” said Harshvardhan Modak, consultant of solid waste management.
 
 According to the   (WHO), dioxin is released into the environment due to uncontrolled and incomplete burning of waste. “Once dioxins enter the body, they last a long time because of their chemical stability. Their half-life in the body is estimated to be 7-11 years,” a report by WHO stated.
 
 Dioxins were evaluated by the WHO’s International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) in 1997 and 2002. Based on animal and human epidemiology data, IARC classified dioxin as a “known human carcinogen”, depending on the level of exposure. “Short-term exposure may result in skin lesions, altered liver function while long-term exposure is linked to impairment of the immune system, the developing nervous system, the endocrine system and reproductive functions,” WHO stated.
 
 The report added that developing foetus is most sensitive to dioxin exposure. As per the calculations suggested by experts, 3.45 crore times more dioxins than the ideal limits were released when MSW caught fire at Bhandewadi.
 
 Rakesh Kumar, director of National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (Neeri), said that different pollutants are released from different types of solid waste. “Municipal solid waste is a mix of different products like wood, metal, clothes, jute, biomass, plastic etc. There are many by-products of burning solid waste, including hydrocarbons, dioxins and furans, which have a significant impact on human health,” he added.
 
 As reported by TOI earlier, fires are frequent throughout the year at the Bhandewadi dumping ground. Some officials call it man-made and blame ragpickers and trespassers, others say it is natural and is caused due to release of methane gas, which is highly flammable.
 
 Though the areas surrounding the Bhandewadi dumping ground were wrapped in a blanket of smoke after the massive fire, experts said that effects can even extend to far-off areas where smoke cannot be seen or smelled. Many residents of Wardhaman Nagar and Deshpande Layout too have complained of respiratory problems. “The spreading of smoke or pollution depends on wind velocity. If not the entire city, the effect can be strongly seen within a four-kilometer radius,” said Kaustav Chatterjee, founder of Green Vigil. 
 
 With the emission of carbon monoxide and oxides of nitrogen and sulphur on a large scale, the city’s air quality is definitely deteriorating, said Chatterjee. “Garbage or biomass burning also contributes around 2-3 per cent to acid rain,” he added.
 
 Pulmonologist Dr Ravindra Sarnaik said that residents staying close to the dump yard face a serious risk of suffering from acute smoke inhalation. “Toxic gases gets diluted in the air. The distance till which they can spread depends on various factors like size of the fire, air currents, toxicity of the gases and dilution. Pollutants released from forest fires usually go upwards in the atmosphere but in cities, tall buildings act as obstructions. Poisonous gases circulate and stay in extra concentration in close pockets,” he said. Chatterjee said that areas under downwind direction are likely to suffer more. 
 
 Repeated exposure to such gases can lead to chronic diseases. “Exposure to carbon monoxide is the most dangerous; it dramatically reduces oxygen level and haemoglobin,” Sarnaik said. 
 
