NEW DELHI: A pregnant hijab-clad American released her rap video called 'Hijabi' last Tuesday and suffice to say it's causing quite a stir.

 The song, with its wink and nod to Orientalism - thanks to its trippy 'Middle Eastern' back beat - is performed by  , a poet and activist who was written about a little over a year ago for a unique experiment to counter   right after the  . At the time, she and her husband Sebastian Robins set up a stand for a few days in Boston with signs saying "Ask a Muslim" and "Talk to a Muslim: Free Coffee & Donuts." (Picture at bottom of story)
 
 In 'Hijabi', her video she released March 28, a very pregnant Haydar and several other hijab- and turban-clad women rap about the perceptions people have of Muslim women.
 
 
 
 
 Of course, the song also addresses issues that non-Muslims might have with hijab-wearing Muslim women. The women rap lyrics like: 
 
 
 
 
 To which, the women in the video rap this:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The stars of the rap video also belong to a range of ethnicities, again attempting to break perceptions that all Muslims have the same skin colour.
 
 
 
 
 Haydar's video got mostly big thumbs ups.
 
  
  
 
 As 'The Tempest', a cultural web site titled its piece, "A Muslim woman raps about hijab and the internet loses it".
 
 
  
  
 
 There were some negative comments.
 
 One person told the BBC the video was "empowering and catchy... (but the) hijab is all about modesty and humbleness in attitude, and this video represents the complete opposite".
 
 Another said to the BBC that the video is "extremely disturbing and wrong on every level... hijab is not only a piece of cloth on our head but every action we undertake should embody hijab and piety."
 
 Some were even shocked Haydar is pregnant in the video. The activist herself told the BBC she's "only interested in growing a more kind and loving world."
 
 As for showing herself pregnant, she said: "Why is it so shocking for a pregnant woman to continue living her own life while growing new life inside her? As a woman who believes that all bodies are good and beautiful, it brings me joy to dismantle the societal structures which try to dictate to women what our bodies should look like. "
 
  
  
 
 Haydar grew up in Flint, Michigan and graduated from the University of Michigan. Currently, she is working on her second collection of poems and her first work of nonfiction on Islamic Spirituality through the lens of other spiritual traditions.
 
 
 
 
