HYDERABAD: A positive frame of mind is as essential as early diagnosis to improve one's chances of surviving cancer. This was the common sentiment echoed by a group of four cancer survivors and five oncologists who gathered at a city hospital on Friday, on the eve of  .
.
 Speaking at the event, organised in line with the theme for this year, `We Can I Can', the survivors shared their experience of battling the disease, from diagnosis to rehabilitation. “While being diagnosed with cancer can be shattering, it is important not to give in to despair. One must be strong enough and should have the will to fight the disease successfully, like many of us did,“ said  , who was diagnosed with stage 3 cervical cancer in 2002, underwent radiation chemotherapy the same year and has been attending regular follow-ups for the past 15 years. Sushila Chellani, who was diagnosed with stage 3 ovarian cancer at the age of 64 and had to undergo 10 chemotherapy sessions and around 25 cycles of radiation, stressed on the importance of battling the disease with a positive frame of mind.“Chemotherapy sessions are not easy. I lost my hair, eyebrows and even my eyelashes. I avoided looking at myself in the mirror.However, I never lost hope, in all the 11years I spent battling the disease,“ said Chellani.
 
 According to oncologists present at the event, various forms of cancer are now curable. The key, they say, is early detection. “Early detection of many forms of cancer saves lives.This can be achieved by encouraging more people to get tested periodically,“ said P  , director of KIMS-Ushalakshmi Centre for Breast Diseases.
 
 T   , senior consultant radiation oncologist at KIMS hospital, meanwhile, pointed out that rates of incidence as well as mortality could be reduced, through awareness.“Global figures indicate that around 1,40,000,00 fresh cases of cancer are detected every year, at present. This figure has been estimated to jump to 2,30,000,00 by 2030. The rates of mortality is also set to rise from the present figure of 80 lakh per year to 1,30,000,00, by 2030. These rates can be brought down through spreading more awareness about the disease,“ said Reddy.
 
 
 
 Population-based screening for breast, cervical and oral cancer will be launched nationwide by the union health ministry on February 4 in 100 districts across the country, P Raghu Ram, one of the key experts appointed by union health ministry in its   (TAG) on cancer screening, said on Friday.
 
