THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A minor incident at the   in   sparked the unprecedented series of political violence in the city. 

  activists had allegedly torn off   put up by SFI in the college, and in retaliation,   men attacked ABVP worker Suraj at Attukal around 9pm on Thursday. A car parked on the residential premises was also damaged.
 
 The reaction was immediate.   workers attacked the residence of DYFI worker Unni, damaging a bike, a pickup van and the house.
 
 CPM cadres soon upped the ante, and targeted the house of Attukal corporation ward councillor and BJP leader R C Beena around 9.45pm. Her car and two scooters were damaged. The attacks and counterattacks went unchecked. BJP activists damaged the windowpanes of the house of Rasiya Begum, CPM's councillor from Kalippankulam. A two-wheeler, too, was damaged.
 
 CPM men replied by attacking the houses of BJP councillors Simi Jyothish in Manacaud and Chalai councillor S K P Ramesh in Kuriyathi. They also vandalised a tailoring shop owned by BJP leader Kannan at Valiyasalai.
 
 The action soon shifted to Kunnukuzhy ward near Palayam, where stones were pelted at CPM councillor I P Binu's residence. Binu and his accomplices went to the BJP state committee office located in his ward and resorted to vandalism. They also assaulted a cop, who tried to stop them. However, their acts were caught on surveillance camera, which led to their arrest later. BJP state president Kummanam Rajasekharan was in the office when the office was attacked around 1.20 am.
 
 Around 2am, the residences of CPM leaders Pushpalatha (Nedumcaud councillor) and Karamana Hari came under  . At 3.30 am, Bineesh Kodiyeri's residence at Maruthamkuzhy too was attacked.
 
 Along with Binu, SFI district secretary Pradhin Saj Krishna and SFI district leaders Sukesh and Jerin were also arrested. The police have booked them under sections 462 and 427 of IPC pertaining to trespass and property damage and section 332 of IPC for voluntarily causing hurt to a public servant.
 
 Their arrests were recorded at Museum police station. The Fort police also arrested seven men, including six BJP activists and one CPM worker in connection with the violence that took place at Attukal, Manacaud and Karamana.
 
  Blame game begins 
 
 Senior leaders of CPM and BJP resorted to blame game after the state capital was hit by political violence by cadres belonging to both the parties. Office of the state president of BJP, the residences of CPM state secretary's son and corporation councillors came under attack on Thursday night.
 
 The CPM was literally caught off guard when the BJP released CCTV visuals of the attack on BJP's state committee office. The 3.5-minute-long visuals showed Binu and several other party workers pelting stones at the office building and smashing the windscreens of vehicles parked in front of the office. The attack against the BJP office, which is hardly one-and-a-half kilometres away from the CPM state headquarters began at 1.19 am. Though the office was under police security, only one policeman was seen making any initiative to stop the violence. 
 
 The BJP alleged that the attack was aimed at its state president Kummanam Rajasekharan. "This attack could not have been possible without the knowledge of the CPM's state leadership. The target of the attack was Kummanam Rajasekharan and planning was done by Kannur lobby of the CPM," said BJP state general secretary M T Ramesh. 
 
 "Kummanam was at the office during the attack. The attackers could not enter the building only because the doors were locked from inside," he added. Ramesh alleged that CPM had vandalised houses of several BJP leaders in the state capital in the past few days.
 
  CPM state secerary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan's first reaction was that the BJP was trying to incite violence with an objective to divert public attention from the medical college bribery case. But later, the party state secretariat condemned the attack on BJP state committee office and asked the concerned party forum to suspend councillor Binu and others from the party.
 
 "The BJP and RSS want to create a false impression that the law order in the state is in shambles under the LDF rule. CPM workers should not behave like BJP-RSS men," he said.
 
