JAIPUR: Rajasthan’s Bikaner district saw its largest ever   among birds with 31   being mowed down by a train at a railway track.

 The accident occurred at Jorbeer, which was proposed to be an Important Bird Area (IBA) conservation site. The carcasses of the vultures, a Schedule I category bird, was noticed on Sunday morning on the Bikaner-Delhi route. “The accidental mortality every year in Jorbeer is about 200 livestock animals. A cow had been mowed down by the train and the vultures were feeding on it. This is along a sharp bend of about 40 degrees on the railway track. It seems the express train moving at a speed hit all the raptors in one go. This probably happened about a fortnight back,” said Dr Dau Lal Bohra, PhD (animal microbiology & wildlife), who has been working on vultures for several years.
 
 “It’s barely a question of a five km patch that runs through Jorbeer that needs to be fenced. At one end, the GoI spends crores on captive breeding of vultures in Pinjore and on the other hand, the entire nesting colony of raptors was finished in Jorbeer and nobody has taken stock of the situation,” Bohra added. Recently, Raptor MoU was signed for multi-species vulture action plan between International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), Saving Asia’s Vultures from Extinction (SAVE) and the ministry of environment and forests.
 
 As an environmental treaty under the aegis of the United Nations Environment Programme, Convention on Migratory Species (CMS) provides a global platform to work on conservation and sustainable habitats for migratory animals. At the moment 145 countries participate in the convention. CMS brings together the states through which migratory animals pass, the range states, and lays the legal foundation for internationally coordinated conservation measures throughout a migratory range. India has been a party since 1983.
 
 
 
 
 IBA recognition for Jorbeer was aimed at enhancing the conservation efforts for single species raptor development. Jorbeer is the largest vulture site in Asia and falls on the migratory route of raptors from Eurasia and Mongolia. The Jorbeer region would now come under conservation is spread over an area of 20-26km and is one of the important winter grounds for local and migratory species in India. Seven species of vultures have been observed in Jorbeer.
 
