PATNA: Milkmen in Bihar would be penalized if found injecting (Oxytocin) cattle for more milk as the state cabinet on Friday gave its nod for gazette notification to establish ‘Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals’ in every district.
 
  Addressing newsmen after the cabinet meeting, cabinet secretariat department principal secretary   said such societies were formed in 2007 but the gazette notification of the same was pending. Incidentally, the formation of such societies comes close on the hills of announcement of cow ambulance services in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh by the newly formed   government.
  
  The primary responsibility of the society would be to prevent cruelty to animals and birds, including ban on giving injections to milch animals for extra milk. The society, to be headed by the district magistrate, would also look after the safety of animals in fairs as well as during their transportation.
  
  The state cabinet also cleared the amendments to the Bihar Home Guards Voluntary Services Rules, 2005, which stipulates Intermediate degree as the minimum educational qualification for the applicants for the post of constable, in place of the earlier criterion of matriculation. The amendments also talk about relaxation in the age limit in the appointment of dependants of class III and IV employees of the state government, who die during service period.
  
  In another decision, the state cabinet approved the formation of firefighting units at important government buildings in Patna, including old and new secretariats, Raj Bhavan, Patna high court, Vishweshraiya Bhawan, Sichai Bhawan, Niyojan Bhawan, Soochna Bhawan and Samvaad (CM secretariat). Mehrotra said each unit would have one fire station sub-officer and two firemen.
  
  The cabinet also approved a proposal from disaster management department for amendments in the norms for employment of retired personnel and jawans from the armed forces in the   (SDRF).
  
  Total eight decisions were taken by the state cabinet on Friday.
