Late bloomers have an advantage. Long after people of their age had hung up their boots, they go on and on. At 76,  , who lives in Aluva with her son, describes her professional status as ‘semi retired’, adding helpfully that she had been working till March as a medical transcription editor. She does paintings, poetry and charity too but they do not fall under the ‘work’ category.

 It was in Tanzania, where she had accompanied her husband with their two children, that she first started working as a teacher, way back in the late 70s. “There was not only demand for trained teachers but also respect since President Julius Nyerere himself was a Mwalimu (Swahili for teacher),” she says. Coming in handy was a degree in education that she had picked up in Mumbai with money inherited from an aunt, since her husband never wanted her to work or even have a bank account.
 
 When she married him, he was in the Navy but that stint did not last long. Neither did the innumerable stints that followed. But she trailed along, like most Indian wives, moving from city to city, until he abandoned her and their three children one day.
 
 Born in Mavelikkara, Saramma grew up in Munnar, went to college in Thiruvananthapuram and after marriage, moved to Kozhikode, where her husband was posted. “I have been a gypsy throughout. I liked going places but after the family grew, it wasn’t easy,” she says. Srinagar was the next stop where they lived for a year and a half and that was where the first child, a daughter, was born. Soon, her husband quit the Navy and joined IIM, Ahmedabad, for a MBA programme. Off she went to that city too.
 
 The ‘Bharat Darshan’ continued as her husband did a job in Delhi for a year and then moved to Mumbai, for what perhaps was his longest innings. “He had a drinking problem, so there wasn’t any savings. Besides, he never stuck to any job and had this tendency to file cases against his employers after quarrelling with them. There would be phases when he would be jobless but somehow we managed.” That ‘somehow’ is a term that encapsulates many ticklish situations, including the one when all her gold had to be sold off to settle a case filed by the owner of a flat where they had overstayed.
 The family’s financial health was far from secure but that did not stop the master of the house from acquiring luxury vehicles; after they moved to Tanzania, he imported a Merc from Germany. 
 
 Meanwhile, her daughter was enrolled in a college in Thiruvananthapuram and Saramma had to move back to India to support her as well as the youngest daughter while dad and son stayed back in that foreign country. Not long afterwards, there was a situation that warranted him to be deported and he chose to bring the Merc with him to Chennai, which meant that Saramma had to borrow money from her relatives and friends to pay the exhorbitant duty.
 
 A trying time was when she developed a lump in her breast and went to get it screened in Vellore. When she returned to Chennai, relieved that it was not malignant, there was no sign of the husband or his car. It took time to know about his whereabouts and the realisation to dawn that he had left them forever. A court case followed which meant spending money for it when they did not have enough to make ends meet. While the son, who was doing an automobile engineering course, took up a part time job, Saramma managed to get a teaching job at the institute where he was studying. 
 
 At one stage in the messy legal battle, the son seized the dad’s car, which was being used as a taxi, and was jailed for a day on the father’s complaint! She did get some relief from the judiciary but thanks to the loopholes in the system, whatever money was paid for their maintenance was few and far between till he passed away in 2000. Yet another trip had to be made to Vellore when a lump was noticed again when she was 69 and this time, her breast had to be removed. “Considering my advanced age, the doctors gave me the option of not doing chemo-radiation, which is done to ensure that the disease doesn’t return,” she says.
 
 At 71, when she came to Kochi to settle down, she joined a firm in Kakkanad as medical transcriptionist and gained expertise in the field. “I like to work with younger people,” she says with a laugh, when asked if she ever considered taking rest.
 
 Two of her girls have got married and the son is running his own business, so she is relatively at ease and peace. Right now, her paintings are on display at the general hospital as part of an initiative to use art as therapy. Saramma is a founder member of another organisation of cancer survivors, which too tries to use art as a salve for patients. As part of a group called Reluctant Poets, she wrote a poem called Journey that was published by the British Council. It goes,
 
 “...This journey is mine,
 Mine alone,
 Lonely in a carriageful of strangers
 Away from home.
 I sit by the window and watch,
 The endless tracks
 Run over by relentless wheels
 Keeping the beats of my heart,
 The heart that I left behind
 Back home...”
 
 
