After bagging the Swachh silver, the biggest challenge is to stay on the podium or go one step higher, BMC commissioner Chhavi Bhardwaj tells TOI

 How was the journey from No. 21 to No. 2 on the Swachh Sarvekshan index? How did BMC accomplish this?
 
 To begin with, we focussed on evaluation criteria of the survey and improved upon those parameters. That said, our true achievement was that we could mobilise people. Social organisations, resident welfare associations and citizens actively participated in this transformation. A women’s group called Sakaratmat Soch in Indrapuri took the lead in garbage disposal and began composting waste on their own. They reclaimed some 35 parks in the area and 10 of these are flourishing with BMC support. New Market businessmen collected Rs 1 lakh to distribute dustbins. 
 
 Was the rank a surprise? What are BMC’s plans for the next survey?
 
 We expected to be in the top 10 but, yes, it was a surprise to be ranked second. To be able to live up to expectation we need cooperation of citizens. There must be a sense of pride in keeping the city clean. BMC will soon start an anti-littering campaign to create deterrence. There is nothing better than a city of aware citizens. 
 
 In which areas did Indore get the better of Bhopal? And did Bhopal under-assess itself?
 
 I don’t think we have under-assessed our case. From my perspective Bhopal needs to improve in two areas — segregation of waste and the Bhanpur garbage dump. Our proposed solid waste disposal unit will rule out need for segregation of waste. Our proposal mentioned this. Indore, on the other hand, has a compost plant and could demonstrate remediation of waste. 
 
 What are the challenges ahead?
 
 It has to be a people-driven movement for Bhopal to remain on top. We are aiming for No. 1. More RWAs and other groups are ready to contribute to keep the city clean and BMC would welcome and support these groups. We have introduced interactive apps like Swachh Map, where you can report garbage spots with geo-tagged photographs. Bhopal has the highest number of downloads and feedback for the app. But orientation of BMC staffers to use such technology has taken time. 
 
 BMC is responsible for those living in private colonies. People are paying taxes but not getting services...
 
 Citizen angst is justified. However, speaking as BMC commissioner, I have to say that giving services in private colonies comes at a cost. If BMC were to supply water to all colonies and provide sewage network, it’s estimated to cost about Rs 780 crore. This year, BMC’s revenue generation was Rs 250 crore. We rely on government grants. Over the last two years, the financial assistance received by BMC has drastically increased. Funding is available under AMRUT, too. But we have to prioritise. After a survey on stormwater rains, work will be initiated within three months. Kolar, Upper Lake and other areas will benefit. Developing colonies should be able to see change in stormwater management.
 
 Citizens are caught between BMC and private developers. Why not make developers pay for civic infrastructure that BMC will build?
 
 The government is sympathetic towards the problems of citizens. The government is considering a proposal in which 80% of the cost of infrastructure will be borne by BMC and 20% by private colonies instead of 50:50. Citizens can prioritise the area of development. For areas like Kolar, a policy decision needs to be taken to regularise illegal colonies. They were constructed in violation of norms when the area was not under BMC. As for Hoshangabad road, a lot of construction debris clogs drains. A zonal plan needs to be approved for development of basic amenities.
 
 How are you preparing for monsoon?
 
 We have identified major encroachments and clogged drains. It is a problem. Often, our staff are not aware of local issues. From May 14, a pre-monsoon clean-up drive will be undertaken. Stormwater drains are an issue in Narela and Ayodhya Bypass.
 
 How do you look at the BRT corridor? Is it successful?
 
 Our aim is to make it better. In fact, we have to improve urban transport as a whole. We’ll have another 150 buses by next month and add 10 new routes. Frequency of buses needs to be maximized. We are aiming at 1 lakh passengers a day — today it is 85,000, up from a low of 35,000 last year. We also have mooted a proposal to allow school buses in the BRT corridor.
 
 What about heritage conservation?
 
 There is a lot of defacement and damage of heritage structures. Sadar Manzil palace has been undertaken as a model project for heritage conservation by BMC. What will come out will be one of the most stunning examples of restoration. Push to include Bhopal under National Heritage City Development and Augmentation Yojana (HRIDAY) will also bring about positive change.
 
 What’s the next big thing in Bhopal?
 
 The Cable-Stay Bridge will be inaugurated in 10 to 15 days. The bridge over Lower Lake is also under construction. And Upper Lake will have one of the biggest floating fountains in the country. 
 
 Will BMC expand ‘Deendayal Thali’?
 
 BMC is considering introducing the scheme in two more areas — MP Nagar and Kolar. 
 
 
