NAGPUR: Performing combined duties of nurses and attendants at the   ( ) isn’t the only torture   doctors have to go through. They are also being forced to act like maids and sweepers at their own hostel.

 The existing three hostels of resident doctors are in a shambles lacking even basic facilities and hygiene. As per the current capacity, the hostels have accommodated 30% extra resident doctors, forcing them to put extra beds in every room.
 
 “The problem will be solved soon as the college is getting a new 200-room hostel for resident doctors,” said Dr Shivhari  , chief warden for post graduate students at GMCH.
 
 About 400 resident doctors reside at three GMCH hostels. The biggest one, which is located close to the casualty ward, has a capacity to accommodate 200 resident doctors. The facility is 35 years old. The other two hostels, both 30 years old, are located close to the hostel of   and have a capacity to accommodate 40 residents each.
 
 Right at the entrance one of the hostels situated adjacent to the one of Dental College, one can find knee-length high bushes, lathered in spider wombs. One look at the premises and it becomes hard to believe that human beings actually reside inside it.
 
 After entering the building, one can find street dogs lying around. Even the security guard wouldn’t mind animals roaming around the corridors. The entire corridor area smells like a toilet, and it seems that the lavatories have not been cleaned for years. As a result, the residents have been forced to keep the doors of their rooms shut most of the time.
 
 The residents have been provided a bed and a table each, in a square-shaped room. Many of the rooms don’t even have ceiling fans and tubelights. They have to sweep their rooms on their own. Lying on the bed, a resident doctor said, “With long working hours, we can only afford to come back to the hostel and sleep for 4-5 hours. Unfortunately, at have to sweep our rooms in between because if we don’t do that once in 2-3 days, it becomes hard to survive.”
 
 Another resident doctor said, “A few months ago, I had to share the room with six other girls since my seniors were about to pass out.”
 
 A look at the toilets and bathrooms, one can easily say that these were cleaned at least a years ago. Even as the resident doctors said that a sweeper visits the hostel every week, it still seems like the washrooms have been untouched since long.
 
 Dr Dinesh Sharma, GMCH president of Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD), said, “Unlike other students, we don’t just study. We have to render services at the   non-stop for a day or two. For the 6 hours we rarely get in the night to be at peace, we deserve to live in a hygienic condition and at least have basic facilities.”
 
 Hostel officials said that the drainage of all the three facilities are chocked because of which rainwater at the ground floor often gets accumulated during monsoon.
 
 Dr Ghorpade, “The GMCH had sent a proposal for a new 200-bed hostel for the residents at a land also near the Dental College hostel. The proposal has been accepted and the hostel shall be ready in two years.”
 
 But even after construction of the new hostel, a good portion of residents will still have to reside in the old hostels. Moreover, the GMCH has no plans to address the problems in the existing dilapidated buildings.
 
 Definitely not for humans
 
 Some of the most basic facilities that should have been provident by GMCH, are being managed by the residents themselves
 
 They have hired a mess contractor themselves, as the college failed to provide one
 
 Apart from beds and tables, everything else has been bought by hostel inmates, including ceiling fans
 
 Tubelights are missing from most of the rooms. Most of the residents have been forced to fit CFLs
 
 Drainage of all the three facilities are chocked because of which rainwater at the ground floor often gets accumulated during monsoon
 
 About the hostels
 
 About 400 resident doctors reside at three GMCH hostels. The biggest one, which is located close to the casualty ward, has a capacity to accommodate 200 resident doctors. The facility is 35 years old. The other two hostels, both 30 years old, are located close to the hostel of Dental College and have a capacity to accommodate 40 residents each
 
 QUOTE
 
 Unlike other students, we don’t just study. We have to render services at the hospital non-stop for a day or two. For the 6 hours we rarely get in the night to be at peace, we deserve to live in a hygienic condition and at least have basic facilities
 
 Dr Dinesh Sharma, GMCH president of MARD
 
