KANPUR: With a bag of four wickets in his debut Test, the 22-year-old Kanpur lad   has announced his arrival on the big stage in style. After missing out on a chance to represent India in the one-off Test against Bangladesh, Kuldeep finally got the nod from the national selectors on Saturday which made him the first left-arm wristspinner to represent India in Tests. 

 Kuldeep is now the 10th player from UP to represent India in Test cricket.
 
 The emergence of young ‘Chinaman’ bowler is one of the most heartening stories of UP cricket of late. His coach Kapil Pandey wore a triumphant look at the end of the day’s proceedings. “Kuldeep just needed one break to prove his worth. And he has done that with aplomb,” Pandey said here on Saturday. 
 
 The coach, who pushed his ward to shun fast bowling and adopt Chinaman, was impressed with the way Kuldeep bowled after the lunch break. “His line was good and it was good to see that he bowled with great variation.” 
 
 Pandey said that Kuldeep had contacted him on Friday at 3.30 in the afternoon and had said that he might get the nod for the Dharamshala Test. “I asked him to remain calm and let me know if this happens.” 
 
 “Around 6pm Kuldeep again contacted me. He was beaming with excitement and I felt so happy for him.”
 
 “I congratulated him and advised to play his natural game. I also asked him to play without any pressure and maintain his line and length”.
 
 Pandey said Kuldeep bowled really well and the way he turned the tables on Aussies after lunch should make him feel proud of his effort. The coach said that Kuldeep is an extremely talented   and he would repeat such performances in future too.
 
 Kuldeep is second cricketer from Kanpur to have played Test cricket after off-spinner Gopal Sharma. Talking to TOI, Gopal said Kuldeep bowled very well and he changed the complexion of the game. “He is not only a very good bowler but can be very handy with the bat too.”
 
 Gopal said that it is after 26 years that a player from Kanpur has represented India in Tests. “It is a proud moment for all Kanpurites.” 
 
 Former junior selector Shashikant Khandekar too extended his wishes to Kuldeep for making a “tremendous entry into Test cricket.” 
 
 Kuldeep’s father Ram Singh was a picture of pure joy. “We were waiting for this day. Nothing can make a father more happy than the success of his child. Kuldeep got the chance and he performed so well. All of us are elated and happy with his performance.” 
 
 “Kuldeep always used to say that he need just one break and now after the selectors have shown faith in him I am sure he will work extremely hard to justify that faith” 
 
 The joyous father stated that Kuldeep used to contact him every evening and share his feelings of late. He had informed us that there were possibilities that he might be selected. “All of us have prayed for him a lot, specially his mother and sisters. We thank god for his success,” the father said in a choked voice. 
 
 The more recent cricketers who went on to represent India in Tests have been Mohammad Kaif (13 Tests), Rudra Pratap Singh (14), Suresh Raina (18), Piyush Chawla (3), Praveen Kumar (6) and   (16).
 
 Before that, it was Gopal Sharma (5) who made his Test debut against England at Kanpur in 1984. The off-spinner was the first cricketer from UP to represent India since the Maharajkumar of Vizianagaram in 1936. However, Vizzy (3) and Phiroze Palia (2) played for India when the state was United Provinces.
 
 
