 
 , 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 Nobody should have any objection if an artist pursues his passion and profession without compromising his duties while holding a public office. A singer or an artist can become an MLA, but an MLA cannot become an artist. Art is God's gift. Sidhu is a gifted man and no one else can do what he is doing. Moreover, he has clarified that he would not be not taking any time from his office hours, but give just one night in a week. I fail to understand, how does it dilute his commitment as a politician or as a minister. Moreover, prominent actors like   and Vinod Khanna did not leave their artistic pursuits after becoming MPs.
 
 
 
 When my election result was declared in 2012, journalists asked me if I would continue with my performances. I told them that singing gave me an identity; whatever I am today is only due to my singing and that it is also my bread and butter, so I'll not leave it. Rather my co-artists are also surviving on it. My party or any leader did not question my decision. I can share an anecdote of how our party leaders backed me. Captain Amarinder Singh was to attend a public function in my district (Barnala) around four months back and three local MLAs -Kewal Singh Dhillon, Harchand Kaur and me -were present there. I had a programme booking but I waited for Amarinder.But he got late due to a previous engagement and I left after waiting for an hour. Some people thought he (Capt) would be offended and some journalists asked him about it. Amarinder said there was nothing wrong if I was keeping my professional commitment, that too after attending the party function. He also said it was my bread and butter and none should have any problem with it.
 
 
 
 I come from a humble background and I am a simple man. I just laid one condition, that I shall not do any professional programmes in my constituency. It would not have been nice had I started charging people who elected me. In my five-year tenure as an MLA, I never performed in my constituency and my constituents also understood it.
 
 
 
 
 Art needs consistency. Withdrawing from it can not only affect ones skills but there are chances that the fellow would be completely out of the field and return can be very difficult. You see my genre has rural audience and that too of a kind which prefers to listen to old style, without big noise of new age instruments. I've been attending programmes organized by cultural organizations and personal functions.
 
 
 
 
 I would not book any programme on the day the assembly session was on. If any party required me at the functions, then I also took care of my constituency. I curtailed my programmes accordingly.
 
 Did people at programmes start responding differently after you became an MLA ?
 
 When nothing changed on my part why would audience behave differently?
 
