VIJAYAWADA: Even while welcoming the new   Care Bill-2016., doctors and experts in the state have expressed their reservations about the implementation of it in Andhra Pradesh because of the lack of   and trained manpower. Also, the portions that deal with advance directive in the bill have drawn much flak from the medical community. 

 Psychiatrists and psychologists alike have lauded the decriminalisation of suicide in the bill. Dr  , head of the department of psychiatry at   in the city, said that by removing the tag of medico-legal case, the stigma around suicide or self-harm will be erased and the patients would be more willing to approach doctors.
 
 "Everyday, at least 30 persons from rural areas come to outpatient (OP) ward at Vijayawada GGH. Most of them come to us with severe illness after they have tried orthodox and unscientific treatments and have failed to recover," Dr Reddy said and pointed out that the number of patients who suffer silently and never approach a doctor is huge in rural Andhra Pradesh.
 
 According to the   (MCI) norms, one psychiatrist is required for a population of one lakh. Andhra Pradesh has less than 200 psychiatrists which is less than half the required number. After bifurcation of the state, the number of psychiatrists has further dwindled and apart from the Government Hospital for Mental Care, Visakhapatnam, there is no other exclusive mental hospital in the state in the government sector," said Dr Vishal Indla, psychiatrist at Vijayawada Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences.
 
 Talking about preconditions for the effective implementation of the bill, Dr T S Rao, renowned psychologist in the city, said the main focus of the government should be on creating awareness on mental illnesses especially in rural areas. "The bill talks about the vital role of clinical psychologists but we don't have institutes for clinical psychology in the state. There is a need for at least 4,000 clinical psychologists in the state and we have just about seven to eight graduating out of colleges every year," he said
 
