KOCHI:  , on Tuesday, arrested   alias Kannan (30) for various offences, including raping a married woman and cohabiting with a woman by making her believe that they had married lawfully. Police arrested the   who used to lure his victims by claiming that he was an avatar of Kalki with  . 

 The police stumbled upon the case after they raided his   on Monday night while investigating a missing person complaint. The parents of a girl who went missing in Kottayam had filed the complaint. SI Radhamani said the accused had been sharing a flat (Kent Mahal) with three women, aged between 24 and 25, at Brahmapuram.
 
 "He also used to stay with another woman at a rented house just a kilometre away. He was able to convince his victims - MBA and engineering graduates from Kottayam,   -that he was an incarnation of Kalki," police said, adding that the women belonged to well-off families.
 
 The accused met the women when they were working together at a company in Perumbavoor four years ago. Later they left the job when he told the women that they could start a software company in Kakkanad. The company they started shut operations within four months due to financial crunch.
 
 Simultaneously, the accused got acquainted with another woman, whom he met at a mall. He later married the Idukki resident and started living with her at a rented house near his flat. When the brother and sister-in-law of one of the three women visited the flat and stayed there for a few days, Unnikrishnan raped the sister-in-law.
 
 He told her that she would soon become a widow and in order to save her marital life a puja was necessary. Unnikrishnan was able to grab Rs 1.75 lakhs from her for the puja done at his flat on February 28.
 
 Police said three women rarely used to visit their homes. "The parents of the complainant approached the city police when they got suspicious. She had told family members that she was working in Kozhikode. When her family visited Kozhikode a few days ago, they realized that they had been duped. The accused has another wife in Thrissur and two cheating cases were filed against him in Thrissur," police said. 
 
