BHOPAL: Civic body officials were on their toes on Thursday, as much anticipated Swachh Sarvekshan 2017 took place in the state capital.

 Primarily focused on assessment of sanitation and solid waste management status, Union urban development ministry sent a team that will evaluate Bhopal’s ‘swachh’ status for three days. The three-member team visited slum areas, residential, religious sites and markets. Community toilets at   (Zone 14),   and   were also surveyed by the team. Later in the day, the team visited around 8 areas in old and new Bhopal. Split in three groups, they kept BMC officials busy all day. Swachh Bharat Mission ( ) team does not announce locations and choses locations randomly. They were also taking pictures and geo-tagging data for the survey. One member of the team was at the BMC headquarters for assessing BMC claims and documentation.
 
 Driving to various parts of the city, BMC officials prepared in anticipation. At times, like in the case of New Mandi at Karond, BMC officials waited from noon till 5 pm for the team to visit. However, the team did not visit, but the marketplace was cleaned like never before. The mandi has not yet been handed over to the BMC. The private contractor responsible for sanitation and hygiene at the mandi was seen resting all day.
 
 Evaluation and score is divided into various components. Waste collection, sweeping and transportation accounts for some 40%. Civic body does not have a waste segregation and collection mechanism. Rather BMC is betting on new technology that does not require segregation of waste at source before its safe disposal. Its new plant is proposed at  . It is expected that BMC would do better with providing for restrooms.
 
 Last year, there was a shortage of some 30,000 toilets cited by SBM survey. BMC has covered by providing for 23,000 new toilets. BMC has a much-hyped public engagement programme and it is expected to improve on its rank. In Swachh Sarvekshan 2016, was ranked 21. This time round there are 500 cities being surveyed.
 
 
