HYDERABAD: If latest figures on the total funding being pumped into start-ups in Hyderabad are anything to go by , the start-up ecosystem in the city is slowly maturing.

 From merely $6 million being pumped into 201 startups in 2016, the Hyderabad start-up ecosystem is predicted to receive a total funding of $136 million by the end of this year.
 
 Till date, nearly $80 million has been invested in 13 companies alone. Industry experts point to this falling number of new start-ups in the market, alongside rising investments, as one of the first signs of a maturing start-up ecosystem.
 
 “Early-stage start-ups in the city today have more access to proper mentoring and advice. Earlier, many startups would only find out if their product was viable in the market after 18 months or so.Presently, it is relatively easier for start-ups to get access to mentorship in their early stages, based on which they decide to either pivot or shut down completely if the product is not going to work in the market. This might be one of the reasons why the quality of start-ups in the city is getting better, while the total number of start-ups has come down.This is a sign of a maturing start-up ecosystem,“ said Ramesh Loganathan, professor, Co-Innovation and   outreach Head at International Institute of Information Technology-Hyderabad (IIIT-H).
 
 Srinivas Kollipara, founder and chief operating officer (COO) of state-government backed tech incubator T-Hub pointed to the `deep tech' area as a niche upco ming sector in Hyderabad.
 
 “It is evident that the startup ecosystem in Hyderabad is maturing. A lot of companies are now trying to solve local problems instead of mimicking Western models. The fact that we are seeing a lot of tech-based start-ups being created is also a sign of maturity. There are also a wave of start-ups that are now working in the niche deep tech sector and are being funded.According to the data we have received from  , around $100 million has been invested in 28 start-ups from Hy derabad, between January 1 and July 9,“ said Kollipara.
 
 Others pointed out how Hyderabad, which is currently trying to transform itself into a start-up hub, still has a long way to go in terms of creating an ecosystem akin to the one in Bengaluru.
 
 “In terms of the maturity , the Hyderabad start-up ecosystem is presently where Bangalore was in 2010. Although the start-up ecosystem here is growing, it needs to further mature and more funding should pour in. While the angel-level funding is hap pening in the city , Series A funding, which is used to scale products, is not very promising in Hyderabad. This could be because there is no local presence of Venture Capitalists (VCs) or not many companies are reaching the Series A stage. However, Hyderabad has the potential to build a start-up ecosystem akin to Bangalore, thanks to the good infrastructure, a reasonable cost of living and a good ecosystem of companies,“ said  , general partner at  , a venture capital firm.
 
