PATNA: Though the state government has not missed any opportunity to showcase the prohibition as an exemplary achievement during the last one year, the opposition still questions its merit and success in  .
 
  JD(U) spokesperson and MLC Sanjay Singh said prohibition has taken the shape of a national movement being spearheaded by Bihar chief minister and JD(U) national president Nitish Kumar. “Other states want to follow the prohibition policy of Bihar after seeing peace and prosperity in the villages and cities of the state. There has been a sharp drop in crime incidents, including murders (24%), dacoities (26%), loots (19%) and riots (19%). People earlier involved in liquor trade are now engaged in other productive businesses. There is a mass support to prohibition and it has turned into a social revolution,” Sanjay said.
  
  On being asked about the frequent liquor seizures in different parts of Bihar, Sanjay said, “Bihar shares a porous border with Nepal and  , which at times is being exploited by the liquor smugglers. However, police and excise department officials are vigilant and frequent raids are being conducted across the state.”
  
  But BJP said though it supported prohibition, the Grand Alliance government failed to implement it properly resulting in a parallel economy being run by the bootleggers. “CM Nitish Kumar had initially planned to implement partial prohibition from April 1 last year. It was only after the BJP support that the state government enforced complete prohibition from April 5. However, the seizure of over 15 lakh litres of liquor and arrest of over 15,000 people in liquor-related cases indicate that the state government failed to enforce prohibition successfully. Liquor is, in fact, being delivered at home now,” BJP state president Nityanand Rai told TOI.
  
  Earlier, in an all-party meeting called by CM Nitish Kumar on November 22 last year, BJP-led NDA had objected to several provisions in the Bihar Excise and Prohibition Act, 2016. The opposition termed as draconian the provisions like community punishment, making all adults in a family culpable and confiscation of property for liquor offences.
  
  Senior BJP functionary Sushil Kumar   said the government claims were false that prohibition had no impact on state revenue. “Though the revenue of commercial taxes department increased by 11%, it was still short of Rs3,500 crore target for 2016-17 fiscal. Besides, prohibition has provided to the police an additional source of earning black money during liquor seizures and arrests,” Modi said.
  
  RJD, however, refuted the BJP claims. “It is completely false to say that prohibition has adversely affected the state revenue. In fact, the budget size of the government has increased this year. Besides, prohibition has led to manifold benefits, including improved law and order and health condition of the masses,” RJD spokesperson   said.
