JAMSHEDPUR: Contrary to the claims of the   of carrying out effective measures to control the  , the disease is   is on the rise. 

 With 30 confirmed cases coming to light within a fortnight, the health department has now approached   to lend resource support to address the growing menace across the industrial town. 
 
 "Along with the notified areas (urban municipal bodies) of Jamshedpur and Mango and Jugsalai municipality, the teams from Telco, Jusco and Tata Steel will work in tandem to fumigate and sprinkle bleaching powder in the identified vulnerable areas," said district civil surgeon S K Jha after a meeting on Friday.
 
 He also informed that   entrusted with the job of carrying out the counter measures will have to upload the details of the work done on a digital proforma designed specifically for dengue eradication.
 
 "The digital uploading of the work by nodal officials will help us keep an eye on the progress. Besides, it will also help us in preventing our teams from visiting the same places," Jha said.
 
 He also told TOI that six independent teams, involving officials of the health, district administration, police and representatives of non-government organizations, will make surprise checks on the colonies to assess the work being done by the agencies.
 
 "Vigilance teams (comprising officials of multiple departments) will commence surprise inspection from July 24," Jha said.
 
 He added that several residential and commercial apartments that were issued notices last year following identification of larvae containers in those places will be inspected by the vigilance teams.
 
 Meanwhile, the civil surgeon reiterated that unless people voluntarily join hands with the department in rooting out dengue there's always a possibility of the existence of the vector borne disease. "Mass awareness and participation is required to address the menace," Jha said. 
 
 District surveillance officer Sahir Pal informed that out of the 30 positive cases, 12 new cases were confirmed on Friday.
 
 "Of the 12 cases, 10 are from East Singhbhum and one each from Seraikela-Kharswan and West Singhbhum districts respectively," Pal said.
 
