NEW DELHI: Days after   announced that no sitting councillor will be given ticket for the  , 118 party   held a meeting at the Civic Centre on Tuesday evening. Sources said many of them were upset with the decision as it had sent a “wrong message that all BJP councillors are corrupt”. 

 The aggrieved party members now plan to pursue the matter with their senior leaders. “We respect the decision taken by our high command, but it would be better if the party gives an opportunity to councillors who have done well in their wards. We will meet all the MPs of Delhi and request them to reconsider the decision,” said V P Pandey, leader of the House, north corporation.
 
 BJP has 152 councillors in the three corporations. Many of them have served their wards for two terms. “I fought two consecutive elections in east Delhi and put all efforts to provide facilities in my ward. For local elections, a known face is very important. Moreover, it would be difficult for new faces to connect with public within a short time,” said Jitender Chaudhary, standing committee chairman of east corporation. “New faces should be given an opportunity, but not at the cost of the sitting councillors who are doing extremely well.” 
 
 Senior councillors who were present in Tuesday’s meeting met Union minister of youth affairs and sports Vijay Goel, MP Mahesh Giri and Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari separately. According to sources, the councillors from outer Delhi may contest the elections independently if the party does not revoke the decision. 
 
 A group of councillors had also met BJP national president Amit Shah on Monday in this connection. The drastic measure, a councillor from south corporation said, will mark the end of political careers of several party members. 
 
 There are many two or three-time councillors who have held several key positions in the corporations and they will be affected by this decision, sources added. 
 
 However, senior functionaries seem to be firm on the party decision. Sources also admit that it’s the honest councillors who will be hit hard by this move. As a pre-emptive move to thwart any inner-party rebellion, Tiwari has recently picked ‘Special 26’ councillors, who will be given bigger responsibility. 
 
 “There is no way the party will go back on its decision. There is a strong anti-incumbency against many councillors. The party wants to promote fresh faces,” said a senior functionary. A section of party members admit this will affect the campaigning for the polls. 
 
 
