CHENNAI: The GST Council on Thursday paved the way for rolling out the new tax regime from July, clearing all legislations required for the ambitious reform measure. Several apps have cropped up in the flourishing app market to help individuals transition to the new indirect tax regime.

 “We saw a gap in awareness and education when it comes to GST. Questions like what constitutes sale, how does one value goods moving between two branches need to be addressed. The app is meant to be a guide to content that can be consumed on the go,” said Archit Gupta, co-founder and CEO, ClearTax.
 
 The app has webinars conducted by industry experts on various aspects of GST. “Case studies will be discussed. Participants can ask questions as well. We are already seeing 400-500 attendees per webinar,” Gupta added. The app will soon have a GST calculator besides conducting webinars in local languages.
 
 ClearTax has seen interest from the practitioner community besides MBA students and trade bodies who are keen on understanding the legislation. “Making GST compliances mobile driven is a core part of our GST roadmap. We are looking to engage with 5-6 lakh businesses in the first year of GST rollout,” said Gupta.
 
 Accounting firm Tally Solutions was among the first to release its mobile solution in December 2016. Tally is one of the 34 GST Suvidha Providers — agencies which will provide front-end services such as tax filing, registrations and refunds for taxpayers.
 
 Consulting majors including PwC and Deloitte have launched dedicated apps as well. Pratik Jain, leader – indirect tax, PwC India, said, “At the cusp of the biggest ever tax reform in India, it is ever more important for businesses to stay abreast of the fast evolving GST landscape. The app is not only designed to provide information about GST related developments but also sector wise analysis of the laws. It gives PwC’s point of view, including insights from our work on GST across the globe”.
 
 The CBEC from its end has launched CBEC GST app to help taxpayers migrate to GST. Available on the Android platform currently, the app addresses queries on the process of migration, steps to be followed and laws governing the transition.
 
 It also has an set of frequently asked questions for businesses related to registration, payment of tax, valuation, input tax credit, refunds, appeal forum and search and seizures.
 
 Further, the app has a toll free helpline number and an email ID for taxpayers looking to seek clarifications.
 
 
