MUMBAI: The   (ANC) of   has busted a   involving a model, believed to supply   (MD) to  . Four persons were arrested and 2.4kg of the drug worth Rs 48 lakh was recovered. Police said this could be just the tip of the iceberg and they are looking for the manufacturer.

 Police arrested four persons identified as Sunny alias Asif Ansari (24), a model, along with three others namely Saumil Pathak alias Sam (51), Yatin Sanghavi (39) a pharmacist from Baroda and Dalwinder Singh alias Jaggi (47), an AC mechanic by profession. The operation was led by the new DCP (anti-narcotics cell) Shivdeep Lande and inspector Dilip Sawant.
 
 Sunny , a resident of Yari Road in Versova, Andheri, is believed to have procured the drug from Yatin and sold them to celebs in the city . “Yatin would smuggle drugs out of the state and sell it to Jaggi, who in turn sold it to Saumil. Sunny would also buy drugs from Yatin and sold it in small portions to celebrities at very high prices,“ said an official. Police said they have sought the call details of each of the accused, which would throw further light on their clientale.
 
 Following a tip-off, the ANC's Ghatkopar unit on Friday detained Sunny and Saumil after they came out of a car, met Yatin and Jaggi and exchanged some packets. A search of the car yielded 2.4kg of white powder. Police said after an on-the-spot testing kit confirmed it was Mephedrone or `meow-meow', they placed them under arrest and booked them under the Narcotics Drugs & Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. The four were produced before a metropolitan magistrate who remanded them to police custody till February 23.
 
 Last month the ANC's Bandra unit busted a major racket when they arrested Praveen Waghela, a pharmacist, with MD worth Rs 2 crore. His interrogations led police to seizure of an MD manufacturing unit in Hubli in Karnataka. Police arrested the unit owner Ramnath Naik, an MSc in organic chemistry . They say he may have used his knowledge of chemicals to manufacture the banned substances.
 
 
