NAGPUR: Resident Acharya of   of   delivered a discourse on   — 17 at Chitnavis Centre, Civil Lines, on Tuesday. The event was organized by  .

 A large number of people from the city attended the programme wherein Swami Advaitanand beautifully explained each shlok of Adhyay 17.
 
 Beginning with the first verse of Geeta, Swami said, “According to the ways of nature acquired by the soul, one's faith can be of three kinds goodness, passion or ignorance.”
 
 “Men in the form of goodness worship the demigods, those in passion worship the demons and those in ignorance worship ghosts and spirits,” Swami said. The food each person prefers is of three kinds, according to the three ways of nature. The same is true of sacrifices, attitudes and charity,” he said.
 
 He told about different forms of sacrifices people make in their life. Swami said, “The sacrifice performed as a direction of scripture or as a duty by those who desire no reward, is of the nature of goodness.”
 
 But the sacrifice performed for some benefit or for the sake of pride is a way of passion. It is neither stable nor permanent, he added. “Speaking words that are true, pleasant, beneficial, and doesn’t agitate others are the attitude of the mind,” he said.
 
 Further he said, charity given out of duty, without expectation of return and at the proper time and place and to a worthy person is considered to be in the mode of goodness. But charity performed with the expectation of some return, or with a desire for fruitive results, is said to be charity in the form of passion, he added.
 
 And charity performed at an impure place, at an improper time, to unworthy persons, or without proper attention and respect is said to be in the form of ignorance.
 
 From the beginning of creation, the three words ‘Om Tat Sat’ were used to indicate the ‘truth’. These three symbolic representations were used by Brahmans, he said. Therefore, performances of sacrifice and charity begin always with ‘Om’, to attain truth. Without desiring fruitive results, one should perform various kinds of sacrifices and charity with the word ‘Tat’.
 
 The truth is the objective of devotional sacrifice and it is indicated by the word ‘Sat’.
 
 
