PANAJI: From removing all floating casinos from the rivers of Goa to providing free 5-litre petrol per month to every college student having driver’s licence, to wheat at Rs 2 to free water and electricity for all below poverty line, the Congress on Monday lined up a whole range of freebies in its manifesto for the February 4 elections.

 In a five-page document focusing on living conditions, employment, education, economic sustainability, governance, protection of Goa’s identity and youth, the manifesto included BJP’s unfulfilled promises such as unemployment dole and special status to Goa. “From failing to grant special status to Goa to rolling back the abolishment of VAT on petrol to removal of the floating casinos from the Mandovi and sending them to the high seas and even solving the state’s serious garbage crisis, the BJP has failed resoundingly to address any of Goa’s serious concerns,” the manifesto said.
 
 “There is tremendous amount of illegal betting that goes on. Whether it is the Mandovi or others, all offshore casinos will be done away with. Even with regard to land casinos, the government will take an initiative of creating the right balance or may be even take action against it,”   member   said while releasing the manifesto.
 
 The state unit president,  , who has been a staunch opponent of casinos, maintained that if the party is elected to office, it would shut down all casinos.
 
 But a casino operator said it was a mere election ploy by the parties to raise the casino issue during polls. “Casinos were brought in by the Congress in 1993. Offshore casinos were brought in 2000 and at that time too the Congress was in power. In the past 23 years of the casino existence, the Congress has been in power for at least three times. In democracy, this means, people have approved the policies and there is no need to bring up the issue every election,” a casino operator said.
 
 The Congress’ 2017 manifesto borrows a few points from its 2012 document, which had promised 150 units of free electricity and water to the poor and fast track courts to resolve land-related disputes.
 
 “The Congress will achieve special status for Goa by restricting the sale of agricultural and tenanted land to non-Goans, rolling back amendments made to Preservation of Trees Act, granting heritage status to all pre-liberation Portuguese homes and granting heritage status to all traditional Goan occupations,” the party said in its manifesto.
 
 Referring to projects that got the nod from the investment promotion board, Congress promised stern action and said, “All permissions granted under the investment promotion act will be inquired into as soon as the party comes to power.”
 
 Capitalizing on the anger against the recent amendments to the Tenancy and Mundkar Acts, Congress said that it would revert to the original tenancy and mundkarial acts, and in line with its promises in 2012, Congress wants to bring in special fast track mamlatdar courts to clear pending tenancy and mundkar-related litigation.
 
