KOTA: Speeding up the pace for reintroduction of   in   (MHTR), members of standing committee on wildlife headed by DGP   on Tuesday held a meeting with district and forest officials in Kota to review the preparation and to discuss plan of action.

 Later, the members visited a part of the reserve and assessed the conditions there. The committee includes members of State Wildlife Board and experts in the field. The committee reportedly discussed on expansion of enclosure areas and periphery for the tiger to be shifted by end of this year in Mukundra.
 
 The members visited a part of reserve and reviewed the conditions in Rawantha, Darra, Sawan–Bhadon and grassland areas of the reserve, deputy conservator of forests S R Yadav said. The members are scheduled to visit other relevant areas of the Reserve on Wednesday following which they would hold the meeting to direct as needed on the outcome of the visits, he said.
 
 Technical committee of National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) earlier this month in principle approved that tiger could be reintroduced to Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve by December 2017. In the first phrase, three tigers, two female and one male are proposed to be shifted most probably from Ranthanbore National Park (RNP) to MHTR.
 
 Stretched over an area of 759 sq. km. including 417 sq. km core area and 342 buffer zone, the reserve covers four districts namely Kota, Bundi, Chittor and Jhalawar. The Mukundra Hills area was in 2013 declared and notified as Tiger Reserve but was approved for tiger habitation in around five years on September 1 this year.
 
 The recent killing of sloth bear in train run over on railway track near Darra has however raised concern over the safe and secure habitation of the proposed three tigers in Mukundra. The wildlife activists in Kota following the incident intensified the demand to raise fencing on both sides of the seven kilometre railway track on both the sides raised in Mukundra. A delegation of the activists also went to meet the DRM with memorandum but was not allowed by the official.
 
 
