 Moradabad: The girl who was first teased and then proposed inside an exam hall and later attacked on the street by the invigilator appeared the Hindi board exam on Friday under police protection. The family of the girl had approached police for protection after the accused teacher and his brothers threatened the student that she would be abducted and raped if she did not withdraw the case.    Speaking to TOI, victim's counsel Shashi Bala said, "The accused teacher, Muneesh Kumar, and his brothers — Krishna, Mintu and Umesh — have threatened the student's family that if she did not withdraw the case, they will abduct the girl and rape her."    The counsel also alleged that Muneesh Kumar was a habitual offender and that he was earlier booked in a similar case earlier.    The victim and the accused teacher live in Partpur village. After the alleged incident, other residents of the village also come forward in support of the victim and have demanded the immediate arrest of the accused teacher.  Speaking to TOI, SHO of Thakurdwara Kothwali police station, Vinay Kumar, said, "We are working hard to arrest the culprit. Meanwhile, the girl was given police protection when she went to appear her Hindi papers on Friday."    On Thursday, when the girl student of history asked the invigilator to give an additional answer sheet in the examination hall at Ahalya Bai Holkar Degree College at Thakurdwara here, the invigilator allegedly professed his love for her and also wrote it on a piece of paper. The examiner, Muneesh Kumar, then followed the girl home, attempted to molest her and then beat her up on the road. An FIR has been filed against Kumar.​    Kumar is a teacher at the degree college and was officiating as examiner when the girl student was giving the examination. “First he started passing lewd remarks at me when I was writing the exam. When he came to my desk to sign on an extra answer sheet, he professed his love for me and also wrote it on a piece of paper. He then repeatedly whispered the words to me whenever he passed my desk during the exam,” the student, 19, had told TOI.    The girl somehow managed to finish her paper, submitted it and left for home, but it was only the beginning of her travails. “Kumar turned up and followed me while I was walking home. He accosted me at a spot near the road and tried to molest me. He then beat me up,” she alleged.