LUCKNOW: A   (HYV) faction is contesting polls in over a dozen east   as nominees of the  . This has raised the question, how much would they hurt BJP in the region?

 In 2002,   founded the HYV . The Bharatiya Janata Party politician is its mukhya sangrakshak (chief patron). Labelled a socio-cultural outfit, its volunteers are known to use strong-arm tactics in riots, cowprotection drives and to stop 'love ji had'. Its presence is across Gorakhpur, Mau, Deoria, Kushinagar, Maharajganj, Basti, Sant Kabir Nagar and Siddharthnagar.
 
 Some HYV members, such as statein-charge Raghavendra Singh in Domariyaganj, are contesting on BJP tickets. The splinter group is of HYV members eager to enter electoral politics but who feel left out. “We gave 15 years to HYV . What did we get,“ wonders Ram Laxman, mahamantri, aligned with the Sunil Singh group.
 
 Laxman furnishes a letterhead bearing Sunil's name as HYV's state president and the names of 20 HYV-Sena joint candidates.
 
 Sunil clarifies that 14 of them are HYV nominees in Khadda, Chauri Chaura, Padrauna, Hata, Pharenda and elsewhere. “We're also backing five Independents,“ he says.
 
 But Raghavendra insists nobody from HYV is contesting. “Those in the fray have been expelled.“
 
 Sunil calls his removal “unconstitutional“ and “illegal“. While his sta tus in HYV is debatable, it's undeniable that by joining hands with Sena, he's challenged Adityanath, allowing Sena find an east UP toehold. BJP's regional spokesperson Satyendra Sinha says HYV owes its identity to Adityanath.“He's influential here, he's said HYV isn't contesting. Those contesting using HYV's name aren't in the organisation,“ he says.
 
 These responses expose an intrarightwing tale of power politics amid allegation of betrayal. Sena, whose ties with BJP are now strained, and the HYV splinter blame BJP. “Yogiji ka mission Hindutva hai...He's left his mission and running after a party (BJP)“, says Sunil.
 
 “We have majority in LS. But they haven't brought the Bill (for a mandir).Modi is silent. We'll campaign on Ram Mandir,“ says Anil Singh, Sena's state president.
 
 He adds: “BJP is making a mockery of Hindutva... Adityanath is disappointed that Sena has entered east UP and his people are contesting under our symbol.“
 
 The Sena politician says the two groups are together because their views on Hindutva are the same. “We might collaborate in future polls too,“ he says. Sunil echoes the view. “Like us, Sena is unhappy with BJP.“
 
 He elaborates on HYV activities.“Hum gau seva karte hain. (We serve the cow.) Due to proximity to Nepal and Bangladesh, cow smuggling is rampant. Our workers stay up nights to prevent it...We use force to stop it.“
 
 On `love jihad', he says: “UP is in its grip. It's a form of terrorism. Our volunteers identify people who tie kalawa (holy wrist thread) in their hands and entrap minor girls,“ he says.
 
