Visakhapatnam: Industries in the city will soon be supplied tertiary   by the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC). Treated sewage effluents will be supplied to industries through pressurised pipelines. The much-awaited project will bolster the existing water supply network in the city, which experiences a drastic scarcity of water during summer.

 The   treatment of sewage is part of a proposed Rs 380 crore project, which will include enhancement of the capacity of the 38 MLD   (STP) near Poorna Market to 70 MLD. As part of the project, sewage from the ABD (Area-Based Development Component) of the smart city as well as Appu Ghar sewage treatment will be diverted to the same STP. Every household in ABD will be brought under the sewerage network.
 
 A GVMC official said they have decided on the STP near Poorna Market because of its location and proximity to industries. “We have released a request for proposal (RFP) for the project and the last date to submit online bids for the project is September 16. The project will be taken up under public-private partnership (PPP) model,” the official added.
 
 Latest technologies will be used to meet the effluent standards set by the Central Pollution Control Board as well as water quality requirements of the industries.
 
 Before embarking on the project, GVMC has studied the   for treated water among industries located in the port area. It was found out that the industries located in the port area predominantly buy water from GVMC. Some of them use alternative sources such as seawater or the water extracted from the raw materials that they use.
 
 According to the estimates prepared by the GVMC, the existing water demand from the industries stands at 36.87 MLD. The demand for water will grow with the expansion of industries in the city. It is estimated that demand will rise to 65.17 MLD in the next few years. However, based on the willingness to use treated water, the derived demand for treated sewerage effluent by industries was calculated as 32.5MLD.
 
 Current inflow of sewerage at the STPs in Appu Ghar (which will be diverted to STP in Poorna Market) and the one near Poorna Market is 20 MLD and 22 MLD respectively. Thus, the supply of tertiary treated effluent available surpasses the current demand for it.
 
 
