GHAZIABAD: Nearly a week after a seven-year-old girl attending a   function in   was lured to a nearby field and  , the   has been  . 

 The girl had come to Loni with her parents from Punjab to attend a relative’s wedding.
 
 According to police, the accused, identified as Anil Kashyap alias Lalli (25), is a resident of Baghpat. He was nabbed from Banthala in Loni, cops said. The accused had confessed that he lured the girl with chocolates to a nearby field and raped her on the night of April 27.
 
 “The crime occurred during wedding celebrations. It was difficult to zero in on the suspect. However, the clincher came when we found a   from the scene of the crime,” said Srikant Prajapati, circle officer, Loni.
 
 The police procured a video footage of the wedding ceremony and prepared a list of people who were seen conversing or interacting with the child. “We questioned every one but there was no trace of the accused. A closer look at the footage revealed that the handkerchief seen on the shoulder of the accused was similar to the one found near the crime scene. We launched a manhunt for him and formed teams which were sent to Pune, Baghpat and other places,” said Prajapati.
 
 According to Prajapati, the accused was arrested from Banthala on Tuesday afternoon. During questioning, Anil confessed to his crime. “He said that around 11pm on April 27 when the guests were busy with the celebrations, he lured the girl promising her chocolate and took her to an eucalyptus field and raped her,” said Prajapati.
 
 The police are weighing their options in slapping the stringent National Security Act (NSA) on Anil and are preparing a water-tight case against him. Meanwhile, the condition of the girl, who has been admitted to GTB Hospital in Delhi, remains critical. Her father said, “It has been five days and there are no signs of improvement. I don’t know whether she will live and even if she lives, she will never be the same again,” he added.
 
 The district administration is planning to provide financial aid to the family. 
 
