GURUGRAM: Police suspect a   is behind the   on Monday of an 18-year-old   of   in Sector 21. One of the two suspects has been detained. 

 Gunjan, who was   while returning home from work, had been pursuing her graduation from Delhi University’s School of Open Learning.
 
 Cops said they have registered a murder case against the alleged stalker,  , a native of Jhajjar district, based on a complaint by Gunjan’s father.  , who was originally from Uttar Pradesh but lived with her parents in Gurgaon’s Shankar Vihar Colony, worked as a part-time sales executive in the Patanjali store.
 
 The crime took place around 9pm on Monday when Gunjan had just left the Patanjali store. An assailant in a black shirt was caught on CCTV camera, installed in the market place, walking up to her and shooting her twice before fleeing on a bike.
 
 Though the CCTV footage was not clear, police suspect the assailant to be Pawan who escaped on the bike of his accomplice. Immediately after the crime, local people rushed Gunjan to a nearby private hospital, where doctors declared her brought dead.
 
 Sources told TOI Gunjan and Pawan had known each other for the past three years.
 
 On the complaint of Chanderbhan, Gunjan’s father, an FIR has been registered against Pawan under sections 302 (murder) of IPC and sections 25-54-59 of the Arms Act at Palam Vihar police station.
 
 “We have formed two special teams and are conducting raids to nab the main accused. We have got a vital clue and hope he will be arrested soon,” said Sanjeev Balhara, ACP (crime), Gurgaon. 
 
 Gunjan’s father, meanwhile, blamed the cops for his daughter’s death. “We had gone to Bajghera police chowki three months ago and lodged a complaint against Pawan. But police did not act and he continued to stalk my daughter and finally killed her,” said Chanderbhan.
 
 However, police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar said that they were looking into the claims of Gunjan’s father and strict action would be taken in case “any negligence is found on part of any cop”.
 
 
