BENGALURU: After giving up a successful career as a corporate brand manager in Hong Kong last year, 30 year-old Srishti Batra decided to walk across the country to educate   about how   and financial literacy could change their lives. An   Champion for Change 2016-2017, she's all set to march 3,800 km -from Kanyakumari to Srinagar -over 260 days starting September 15.

 Empower Women is an initiative by the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and Empowerment of Women. Srishti says defending India's poor track record in tackling crime against women and children with her foreign colleagues made her realize how se vere the problem was.
 
 “You start your career with certain aspirations. My sister was a management graduate and wanted me to follow in her footsteps. I did that for a few years and worked with companies like Red Bull,  , ITC and India Today. While I was doing well professionally , I started thinking about doing something worthwhile and meaningful,“ said Srishti. With no experience in the development sector, she had to start from scratch to set up her social impact campaign, Arrow by Crossbow ­ Billion Steps for India.
 
 An avid hiker, Srishti chose something she could do on her own. To gain credibility in a sphere where she was a newcomer, she decided to apply to the Champion for Change programme that is open anyone who wants to make a difference. She was one of 170 champions. “There were participants from across the world, especially Africa. In March, I was given the opportunity to represent the cohort at the 61st session of the Commission on the Status of Women at New York. That is when my project started taking shape.“
 
 GOING EXTRA MILE
 
 Collaborating with Deepak Ramola, a featured UN speaker, educator and writer who conducts life-skills workshops, Srishti has split her travels into walk days and workshop days. She will be covering 2530km on each day of walking, but will make each place a base for four to five days to visit nearby places.
 
 “I will be walking and talking to women in 110 rural locations and 52 towns. We will start walking at 5am on walk days. The content o f my workshops has been designed to make listeners more engaged; it is tailor-made for different audiences.Digital and financial literacy can liberate these women. We need to break the barriers of fear and ignorance, when it comes to technology ,“ she said.
 
