CHENNAI: The success of the Indian Premier   has spawned leagues across football, hockey, kabbadi, and badminton among others. These leagues have prompted active participation from investors, corporates and spectators. Renewed interest has opened   for those passionate about sport — not just on field but off it too.

 For those who want to be away from the action but still want to be a part of it, a degree in   can ensure steady growth and opportunities to brush shoulders with the who’s who of the sports world. While glamour is its byproduct, sports management primarily involves working on the business side of the industry.
 
 “For those who enjoy the glamour, celebrity manager could be an apt role. For those with good communication and marketing skills, there is a lot of scope with leagues and federations, managing their sponsorships and franchises,” says Nilesh Kulkarni, founder of International Institute of Sports Management (IISM). “Operations and logistics can be interesting for someone with good administrative skills. Those interested in the commerce of sports can enter merchandising, sports equipment and licensing,” he says.
 
 “With nearly 20 sports channels tracking ball of every size, there is no better time for anyone interested to jump right in. Jobs offer a mix of blood, sweat, tears, travel and excitement that few other industries can offer,” says Pavan Kachibhatla, former director of sales, IMG, a global sports management company.
 
 For Juthika Mehta, national level swimmer and district level horse rider, sports management helps her get as close to the action as possible. Mehta handles marketing and communication for Olympians Association of India. “Many make the switch to sports out of passion. But a career in sports management is not akin to the excitement on the field. You must have managerial skills to survive,” she says.
 
 As the ecosystem grows, the demand for skilled professionals is rising. “Sports management can be fun, but it is a business – one set for exponential growth. We will see more people entering the business as it provides varied and viable career options,” said Ravi Krishnan, CEO and co-founder, Stepathlon and earlier, MD of IMG.
 
 While institutes like IISM offer courses from graduate programmes to masters and postgraduate courses, Kulkarni says each course readies the student for the next level. The career path for someone taking up a PhD or research can be very different yet promising.
 
 For those pursuing jobs or other courses, Baseline Ventures, a sports marketing and brand licensing firm, has partnered with Chennai-based Learntron to launch online sports management & marketing courses.
 
