NEW DELHI: BJP, the ruling party in Delhi's three municipal corporations, is stung by the   government's publicity campaign on the schemes it has undertaken in the capital. With a wary eye on what it might mean with municipal polls round the corner, the saffron party is accusing the state government of false propaganda paid for by the exchequer. 

 "The state government is wasting public money on campaigns to publicise routine works such as road repair and maintenance," alleged  , leader of the opposition in the Delhi assembly, on Friday. "It is using tax payers' money to promote the Aam Aadmi Party ahead of municipal elections."
 
 Complaining about video and newspaper ads and slots on radio, BJP urged lieutenant governor Anil Baijal to remind Delhi chief minister   of his "Swaraj philosophy" and advise him not to waste public money on "misleading" campaigns.
 
 On Friday, the saffron party hit out at Kejriwal for his video message holding the BJP-led corporations responsible for the poor sanitation in the city amid allegations of misappropriation of development funds. Kuljeet Chahal, general secretary of Delhi unit of BJP, said the state government was actually to blame because it had not shared revenues as recommended by the  .
 
 "The corporations are working hard despite the financial crisis created by the state government by not releasing funds on time," charged Chahal. 
 
 "The government has money to spend on false propaganda but not for corporations." The party claimed that the government owed the civic bodies close to Rs 9,000 crore as per the finance commission recommendations. A BJP member pointed out, "The CM has admitted that the government gave the corporations only Rs 2,800 crore in the last two years." 
 
 BJP leaders admit that the AAP government's publicity campaign and the slew of "populist" measures it has announced will hurt their party's prospects in the municipal polls because the civic bodies do not have the funds to run a similar media campaign on the work they have done. As it is, the ruling party is fighting a strong anti-incumbency mood after being unable to do much work despite being in power in the corporations for a decade.
 
 The ruling party in the corporations is under attack for its poor performance in dealing with sanitation despite financial assistance from the centre under the Swachh Bharat initiative. BJP, however, responded that the municipal bodies were accountable only for the cleanliness of colony lanes. It also said that while transporting waste to landfill site comes under the corporations, garbage disposal and waste management falls in the purview of Delhi government. "The government should tell citizens what it has done regarding these," said Ravinder Gupta, Delhi BJP general secretary and former mayor of North Delhi Municipal Corporation.
 
 
