Nagpur: Raman Science Centre (RSC) has set-up an exhibition where citizens can learn how statistics could be used in making informed decisions even in everyday life, be it government or private sector. It was inaugurated on Friday by NU Statistics Department head Dr M V Khaparde. The exhibition cleverly showcases how government used statistical tools while formulating recent policies or initiating projects. It has been crafted by National Council of Science Museums (NCSM) and will keep on travelling to different centres across the country. The exhibit arrived in the city on Friday and will be on in city till May 31. While addressing school kids during the inaugural ceremony, RSC project coordinator N Ramdas Iyer said, “If you look at it as a student, statistics is a dry subject. But if you go beyond that, you will notice statistics has wide applications, everything in day to day life is governed by it.” “Government depends so much on statistics that it has and entire ‘Ministry of statistics and programme implementation’. All government decision making and policy making are based upon it,” he said. “The travelling exhibition developed by NCSM goes to all 25 centres across the country. It’s a privilege to have it here at RSC,” he added. The exhibition has been set-up beside the Centre’s Innovation Hub. It has several sections. There is one about how government uses statistical tool in processing census data. It displays a graph showing a constant decline in number of females in the county. In 1901, the sex-ratio was 970 females per 1000 males which has come down to 940 per 1000 males in 2011. It also shows a statistical decline in school dropout rate after introduction of mid-day meal scheme. The exhibition explains how Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is calculated. There is also a section on banking and insurance sector, demography, public health, transport and what are TRPs (figures showing viewership of various channels). There are interesting data like people aged between 60 and 30 comprise 60 to 70% of internet users in the country. The country uses internet mostly for Emailing, followed by web search, downloading music, job search, social media and lastly for chatting. It also had various participatory exhibits like measuring body mass index ratio, probability of toss and probability of winning in gambling. The exhibition will be open for visitors from 11:30 am to 7 pm on all days.