KANPUR: A day after a six-storey under-construction building collapsed in Pragati Vihar of Jajmau, rescuers were successful in saving the life of Sushila, a three-year-old girl who was trapped under the debris. Sushila survived miraculously without food and water for 15 hours and was pulled out early Thursday morning.

 The doctors treating her at   said the injuries were so minor that one could say she was without a scratch.
 
 The NDRF team members along with father of the girl, Sitaram, waited with baited breath as the child was finally brought out on Thursday.Amidst the tense and gloomy atmosphere, Sitaram wept bitterly but normalized with a smile on his face after seeing his daughter alive.
 
 Chhattisgarh labourer Sitaram's daughter was playing on the premises of the building when it collapsed. Sitaram said, “I had lost hope of seeing my daughter alive. It is almost a miracle and God's grace that she survived without food and water for so many hours. The rescue teams did a commendable job and brought my child back alive."
 
 Meanwhile, the district administration and the   set up two probes into the incident while KDA vice-chairman Jaishree Bhoj on Thursday suspended five employees for negligence.
 
 “Area supervisor Chandrasen Awasthi, besides Ram Vilas, Shiv Adhar Singh, Amar Singh and Ram Kishan have been suspended for laxity in discharge of duty. A recommendation for suspension of other officials , including the executive engineer, assistant engineer, and junior engineer has been made to the government,“ said Bhoj. According to KDA, the building was owned by SP leader Mahtab Alam and the construction was going on without any approval. “A fact-finding committee, headed by KDA secretary K P Singh, has been set up to probe into the incident. It has been asked to submit its report in a week,“ said a senior KDA official.
 
 The district administration too set up an inquiry into the incident. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said the divisional commissioner has ordered a probe by two ADM-rank officials.
 
 The DM said that the police have taken statements of those living in the area and CCTV footages area have been collected.
 
