PATNA: In ward number 6 of   panchayat in Patna district, which was declared open defecation free (ODF) on March 25, only 20% houses have toilets, according to a survey conducted by   (ASA). 

 President of the association Nawal Kishore Choudhary claimed ward number 6 of Khajuri panchayat is dominated by dalit and mahadalit communities and most of the homes do not have toilets. 
 
 "The residents told us that block development officer (BDO)   had asked them on March 20 to put fingerprints on documents to establish that toilets were conducted in their houses. The  , according to the villagers, had promised that the administration will complete construction of toilets as soon as possible," he said. 
 
 "During a programme on March 25, Union minister Ram Kripal Yadav and mukhiya Soni Devi had declared the entire panchayat as ODF. The BDO had said toilets have been built in all the houses of the panchayat as part of the 'Swacch Bharat Mission'," Choudhary added.
 
 Members of ASA claimed that two days prior to the inspection of Patna district magistrate Sanjay Kumar Agarwal on April 4, the BDO hired contactor (on April 2) to construct the toilets. "In two days, they were able to construct only 15 toilets," they added. 
 
 The ASA members even made public the recording of the conversation between BDO and  , a member of ward number 6, on April 2. 
 
 "In the recording, the BDO was heard asking Mahto to hire a contractor for construction of toilets," said secretary of the association Anil Kumar Roy.
 
 However, when TOI tried to contact the BDO, the officer did not respond to the call. 
 
 DM Agarwal said the administration has received complaints of irregularities in declaring Khajuri panchayat ODF. "Around 55% toilets were built in ward number 6, while other wards of this panchayat too did not have 100% toilets. Coordinator for Naubatpur block, Abhay Chandra Bharati, has been suspended for wrong reporting. A two-member committee, comprising deputy development commissioner and director of district rural development agency has been formed to probe the irregularities," the DM added.
 
