KOLKATA: The occupants of 16 buildings out of 25 earmarked ‘critical’ on the tunnel alignment for the second phase of the   may not need to move out at all, thanks to the use of advanced  .

 Mitigation measures like propping, supporting and grouting will limit the overhaul to a particular section, without disturbing the whole structure. “The non-invasive technology, like non-invasive surgery, will repair a very specific area without disturbing the entire structure. This use of technology often does not require any displacement,” said an officer of  , the implementing agency for  .
 
 Transtonnelstroy Afcons, the joint venture company constructing the under-river tunnel for the project between Howrah Maidan and Sealdah, had carried out a building condition survey that found 25 in ‘critical’ condition. The survey divided the buildings into two categories — A (very poor) and B (poor).
 
 While a majority of 16 ‘B’ category buildings are highrises (G+3 and above), most in ‘A’ category are shorter (G+2 or less), with the only exception being the G+9 building on P-8, Brabourne Road and 8, Jackson Lane. As the number of occupants is higher in these 16 buildings than the 9 ‘very poor’ ones, the displacement for reinforcing structural strength of these buildings will be less that what has been perceived, said the KMRC officer.
 
 This comes as a major relief for all those residents who were supposed to move out for protective repair of these buildings for the construction of the under-river tunnel. “We will take mitigation measures like propping, supporting and grouting before the passage of the tunnels. With the high-end technology we are using, evacuation may not be necessary at all,” the officer said.
 
 This is not the first time that Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation (KMRC), the implementing agency for East-West Metro, is facing a situation like this. While driving the tunnel-boring machine (TBM) from Subhas Sarovar to Sealdah, it undertook a similar exercise and adopted mitigation measures for buildings that were too close for comfort. “Thanks to the smooth tunnelling by TBM, not a single occupant of these buildings has had any complaint,” said an official.
 
 During the building condition survey in Zone 5 of the E-W Metro corridor from the east bank of the Hooghly to New Mahakaran, all the ‘critical’ buildings were found to be more than 40 years old. The team carried out both internal and external checks on these buildings, except in four of them where the occupants did not allow the team to enter. In case of these structures, only external checks were done.
 
 For any building that is over 40 years old, engineers need to obtain a certificate of fitness from the civic authority to claim that they are liveable. But none of these buildings have fitness certificates. The KMRC chairman wrote a letter to the principal secretary (transport), Alapan Bandyopadhyay, requesting him to form an empowered committee involving the state government, Kolkata Police and KMRC to facilitate mitigation measures on a case-to-case basis.
 
