HYDERABAD: Drink-driving or helmet-less driving aren’t the only traffic violations haunting city police these days. There’s also the issue of the ‘missing’  . Though much lesser in count than the former offences, traffic personnel rue how this illegal practice too is on a consistent rise. 

 In the last three months alone, police officers have nabbed as many as 1,900 vehicles spotted zipping around town without a number plate. If that’s not all, another 7,600 vehicles were found sporting improper plates with either illegible fonts or completely faded out numbers. 
 
 “This is a serious offence because the lack of a number plate makes it difficult to track down a vehicle involved in a crime. Apart from vehicles having no number plates, scores of two wheelers, especially the second hand ones, have number plates that cannot be read at all. These are a big problem in the  ,” said AV Ranganath, DCP Traffic, Hyderabad. 
 
 Motorists too are unhappy about this practice. Burra Krishna, who was recently at the receiving end of this menace, said: “Three days ago, a speeding motorcycle hit my two-wheeler and sped away late in the night. Once I regained my balance, I tried noting down the number, but to my surprise I saw that it had no number plate. Due to this, I couldn’t report the matter to the police.”
 
 While many give the mandatory number plate a miss, there are an equally large number of motorists who continue driving around with their temporary registration number for over a year, cops said. 
 
 Considering that the fine for this crime is a meagre Rs 200-300, it fails to work as a deterrent for offenders, say road transport experts. “Improper or missing number plates and fake number plates (with wrong registration number) become a hindrance in even getting compensation in case of road accidents. Since shelling out the fine amount is easy on the pocket, people tend to ignore the necessity of rectifying their number plates. Unless the fine amount is increased substantially and repeat offenders are punished, like in the case of drink driving, people will continue to flout the norms,” said Dheerendra Samineni, road safety expert and founder Safe Drive India. 
 
