PATIALA: To counter   hitting   near the Bahadurgarh fort that has a   for firing range, the administration of   has come up with a solution. The land has been dug by three feet deep following which the total height of the wall has increased. Besides a temporary mud wall has been constructed at the   to avert any stray bullet hitting the residents nearby.

 The authorities claimed that they had also changed the shooting angle downwards whereas earlier the shooting angle was placed upwards on the wall.
 
 “Now the bullets cannot cross the wall from any angle. We have changed the shooting angle downwards. Now the commandoes getting training here will not shoot upside of the wall but rather these bullets will stay down to the land we have trenched. There were complaints that stray bullets found in nearby villages were coming from our fort as commandos practised at the shooting range but now we have come up with a permanent solution. An architect has also been called to plan the raising of the walls of the fort where the shooting range has been made for commando training,” said, Commandant Gurpreet Singh, PAP Commanding Officer Bahadurgarh.
 
 Gurpreet Singh added that a survey over the height of other walls is also being done by commanding team and their height will be raised once the architect approves it. 
 
 Earlier in April TOI highlighted how stray bullets are injuring residents near the Bahadurgarh fort. The wide-off- the-mark shot pierced 32-year-old Dharamvir Singh Soni's right hand while a number of stray bullets were found from houses of different villagers of Dealwal village that falls nearest to the shooting range.
 
 The Bahadurgarh range is where Punjab Armed Police (PAP) commandos sharpen their shooting skills but the stray bullets injuring them and landing in their houses forced them to complaint to police.
 
 The commandos and other units of the armed police practise shooting at the range almost continuously through the day and this also left villagers to live in continuous fear round the clock.
 
 Shooting practice is a must for the policemen after strict government instructions that clearly maintained that those skipping these training sessions would have to wait for departmental promotions.
 
