NAGPUR: With just 12 days to go for NMC elections, poll fever is yet to catch up in most parts of the city. Be it the Congress, which released its list of nominees less than 2 weeks ahead of the poll, or the ruling BJP, which is grappling with rebels, no party has really started any serious work on the campaign front.

 It was never like this before, admitted political leaders. TOI on Thursday toured many parts of the city and found no zeal among the candidates too. In fact, major parties are knee-deep in chalking out plans for meetings, rallies and road shows.
 
 With leaders of all political parties and groups busy giving final touches to their own tours and alliance-coordination, there is a vacuum in all parties, admitted a senior Shiv Sena leader. He clarified that it is due to elections being held on February 21 in 26 other municipal corporations. The Shiv Sena held a meeting on Thursday to chalk out a plan for campaigning. “We even plan to invite our party working President Uddhav Thackeray,” he said. 
 
 BJP city President   admitted delay in kicking off election campaign. He, however, was quick to add apart from chief minister   and union minister Nitin Gadkari, six city MLAs including himself and district guardian minister   will be campaigning across the city. “Besides this, we will also be planning to rope-in Madhya Pradesh chief minister   for campaigning,” said Kohale.
 
 “Normally, we don’t call the central leaders for the local bodies’ elections. But former chief minister Prithviraj Chavan will be visiting city for campaigning,” said city Congress President  , adding Chavan’s campaigning will be organized in two phases. In his first campaign on February 11, the former CM will address two public meetings in the city, said Thakre.
 
 The NCP has been organizing two meetings every day since Sunday and many prominent state leaders will also address public meetings in the days to come. “We have chalked out a plan to give time to the candidates for campaigning in their region. The meetings and rallies will be organized as per schedule,” said an NCP leader. 
 
 “Our candidates have already started door-to-door campaigns in their respective wards. Our state leaders will also address rallies in Nagpur city,” said a BSP leader.
 
 The campaign is slowly picking up in Prabhag number 8 where Congress candidate Zulfikar Ahmed Bhutto have started door-to-door campaigning by visiting areas like Boriyapura, Saifi Nagar, Ansar Nagar, Gaurdlines, Bhankheda, Momimpura, Timki etc.
 
