NEW DELHI: Budget airline flyers may get some relief from the choking congestion at IGI Airport’s   1—where IndiGo, SpiceJet and GoAir operate their domestic flights from—only this winter. The Delhi Airport does not have any peak hour slots available due to which   are not able to add flights. 

 The government has decided that additional slots, created by enhancing runway usage, will be given to low cost carriers (LCC) this winter. These airlines have got time till October to shift from T1 to T2. The latter has been lying unused since 2010.
 
 “IGIA can currently handle 67 flights an hour—62 schedule besides five VVIP, defence or charter flights. By winter, the hourly handling capacity of its three runways will be hiked to 73 and there will be six more slots available every hour. These slots to operate extra flights can be offered as   to LCCs, which agree to shift from T1 to T2 in the winter schedule. This might happen by October-end,” said a highly-placed source. 
 
 For this summer schedule, DIAL had said it did not have any extra slot between 7am and 10pm. IndiGo alone, for instance, did not get slots for 30 flights it wanted to operate from Delhi this summer due to the capacity crunch at IGIA—both on runway and terminal side.
 
 If air traffic control (ATC) is able to add six more slots an hour by winter, this will mean 90 (6 x 15) additional flights in the period. “Hopefully the incentive of these many extra flights makes some LCCs shift from T1 to T2. This will reduce congestion at T1, which has an annual passenger handling capacity of 2 crore but handled 2.4 crore flyers last year,” said a source.
 
 The LCCs had complained to aviation minister Jayant Sinha that moving from T1 to T2 was not leading to any increase in flights. Sinha had found this argument logical—especially as airlines which go to T2 will have to return to T1 in 2020, by when this terminal is expanded and then T2 is to be demolished to make way for T4—and wanted to address this concern.
 
 The minister asked Airports Authority of India (AAI), which controls ATC, to hike IGIA’s flight handling capacity at the earliest. A UK-based agency, NATS, has recently submitted a report to DIAL, which says Delhi airport’s three runways can handle up to 95 flights an hour in three years. 
 
 Bursting at seams, T1 has 15 departure gates and can therefore handle a maximum of 30 departures an hour as one flight boarding from terminal gate to buses (that ferry flyers to aircraft) takes about half an hour. If some airlines are shifted to T2, DAIL will get space to start expansion work and take T1’s capacity to 3 crore annually by adding infrastructure like more departure gates by 2020. The fourth runway will also be ready by then.
 
 
