HYDERABAD: Chief Minister   is all set to be re-elected as TRS party president for the ninth consecutive term at a plenary meeting to be held at Hyderabad on April 21. KCR, 64, founded the   (TRS) in 2001 and held plenary meetings on eight occasions during the last 16 years. 

 Proving the nay-sayers wrong, KCR not only achieved Telangana state but also ensured that the party unity remained intact during the last decade and half. 
 
 Party sources said there would be no contenders for the post of TRS president and KCR would be re-elected unanimously. The plenary will see elevation in the party posts for irrigation minister   and Nizamabad MP K Kavitha, they said. 
 
 In a meeting held at   on Saturday, KCR interacted with party MLAs and ministers on the issue of holding party organizational polls. The party plenary is to be held at a private convention centre in   on the outskirts of the city.
 
 The meeting also decided to hold a massive public meeting in Warangal on April 27. KCR directed all district, mandal, village level leaders to complete the membership drive by April 6 and hold elections to city and district party units on April 13 and 14. During the membership drive, the MLAs will also participate in social work to raise funds for the party.
 
 During the interaction with the legislators, KCR assured them that the recent survey findings on their performance would not come in their way but asked them to be cautious to improve their ratings. "He (The CM) assured us that during the distribution of nominated posts and other important positions, the current ratings will not be considered. But in the same breath, he told those who got a poor rating to strive hard to improve their relations with the people," said a minister. Filling up the posts in the party and government will be given top priority in the next two months, the CM told his party MLAs.
 
 The CM also pointed out that the TRS government has been able to fulfil all the key election promises including loan waiver for farmers, and increased social security pensions to senior citizens, women and the disabled as well as uninterrupted power supply to all sections. He also told the MLAs to spread the message during the enrollment drive to counter the misleading propaganda of the Opposition parties.
 
