NAGPUR: City police are hoping to beat counterparts from half-a-dozen states in arresting notorious gold dacoit Subodh Kant Ishwar Prasad, whose six-member gang had stolen 30kg of gold and cash Rs3 lakh from the   office at Jaripatka on September 28 last year. The city police have got custody of Subodh Kant’s two close aides till March 8. These two have revealed a lot about Kant, including that he paid them Rs5 lakhs each for the heist in the city.

 The two, identified as Suraj Kumar alias Sunny Singh, and Dharamveer Prasad alias Baba, were taken into custody by Jaripatka police on February 22, from Barrackpore in West Bengal. They had been rounded up in a joint operation by Kolkata police and their Vizag counterparts. Seven people had assembled at Vizag to commit dacoity, when the Kolkata cops rounded them up.
 
 It has come to fore that the gang, including the two arrested and mastermind Subodh Kant, had fled to Pandhurna in Madhya Pradesh from city on bike after the heist, and then to Bihar via Hoshangabad. Jaripatka police teams are expected to reach Bihar and Hoshangabad to take their probe forward under Zonal DCP Abhinash Kumar.
 
 The gang, barring Sunny and Baba, had perpetrated another dacoity at Kolkata and taken over 30kg of gold from   Limited office in December. Since Sunny and Baba were not part of the gang that committed the heist at Kolkata, Jaripatka police promptly got their custody from West Bengal court to probe their role in the city dacoity. Using the information extracted from Sunny and Baba, city police are trying to zero down on the gang leader and the loot.
 
 City police firmly believe the gold looted from the Manappuram office in city may have been disposed somewhere between Hoshangabad and Danapur, and was never taken to Nepal as it was speculated. City police had also nabbed Subodh Kant’s wife Janhavi, who is in jail since November 2016.
 
 The combined forces of Vizag and West Bengal had nearly caught Subodh Kant in February, when his call details showed he had arrived in Andhra Pradesh, but he did not turn up to meet his accomplices.
 
