Their average, everyday-girl demeanour and physique belie the toughness they demonstrate on the field. Their game of choice is full-contact rugby, the stereotypes surrounding which give it a low ranking in the sporting menus of educational institutions and academies. But the Pune women are working on the game’s acceptability factor, demonstrating how temperament and technique matter as much as the physical aspect.

 Pune has played a pioneering role in the women’s national rugby scene thanks to brothers Surhud and Swapneel Khare. The Khares developed an interest in the game during their growing years in Africa. The odds were stacked against them when they decided to coach players, that too girls, in an unheralded and seemingly ferocious sport in Pune. But they pulled it off.
 
 Nine players trained by the Khares made it to the first women’s national team that played in the Asian sevens championship in Thailand in 2009. The Pune women have since made their mark in national and foreign tournaments. Earlier this year, the Indian squad led by Pune’s Neha Pardeshi won a silver medal in the Asian women’s rugby tournament held in Laos. Incidentally, the captain’s mantle has always been held by a city player, from Avani Sabade, Surabhi Date, Vahbiz Bharucha and currently Neha.
 
 Neha, Vahbiz and teammates Nikita Bhatia and Khusnaz Jogi went to Sardar Dastur school in the Pune cantonment, which relished teaching its students offbeat sports like fencing, rollball and handball. When rugby with the Khares happened for them, it too had a different appeal with its scrums, lineouts, blindsides and tackles. Neha started off training as a 15-year-old, went with the 2009 Indian team to Thailand and has remained in the squad since then.
 
 While the squad has mostly played the sevens format (seven players per side), of late it has been dabbling in the 15s too, which is the traditional version of the game. A 15s game goes on for an hour to an hour-and-a-half while the sevens lasts 14 minutes. The 15s is taxing, with players experiencing much soreness due to the excessive tackling and contact work. But Neha is not complaining. “The soreness lasts a couple of days at least or till the next match, whichever is earlier,” she says.
 
 Occasionally, the hard nature of the game brings on injuries, but the women say that can happen with any sport. Neha recalls a squad member, Annapurna Bothate, dislocating her finger in the semifinal match of the 2015 National Games in Kerala. “While going for a tackle, Annapurna’s finger got caught in an opponent’s jersey and she fell. However, she simply got up, pushed the bone back in place and continued with the match. Of course, she required medical attention after the game,” she says.
 
 Annapurna, a kabaddi player and weightlifter before taking to rugby, is presently with the Officers Training Academy in Chennai and is waiting to be commissioned into the Indian Army.   can vie for government jobs, but the Pune women prefer professions in the private sector. Vahbiz and Nikita are physiotherapists, Khusnaz is a gym instructor, Saloni Prachande is an IT professional, Pooja Bhale is an ecologist who lives and works on a farm, Surabhi is a strength and conditioning coach and Avani is a philosophy teacher. Some are still studying, like Ridhi Jethani, who is also a black belt in karate, and Raveena Mattu, the baby of the squad at 19.
 
 Surhud says he and Swapneel introduced rugby to the girls at Kfandra (Khare’s Football and Rugby Academy) in 2006-07 . “There were 25 or more girls then, who had actually enrolled for football following the Bend it like Beckham craze. They took to rugby likes ducks to the water. Till then, some girls in Kolkata had been introduced to the sport, but that was only touch rugby. We were the first in India to start girls on contact rugby. We played a couple of exhibition matches and soon teams started popping up all over India,” he says.
 
 “The first sevens women’s tourney in India was held at Kondhwa in 2008. The number of players stayed high over the next few years. Some years back, the first women’s 15s game in India was held at the Police ground with all our girls and a few from Mumbai participating. In 2010, we formed RFS Pune Pvt Ltd with the aim of running the men’s, women’s, schools, college and disadvantaged rugby,” he says.
 
 But Surhud says lack of sponsorship and zero TV coverage is doing a disservice to the sport. “So many channels, but not even a few seconds devoted to rugby. Elitist sports like golf will get coverage but not rugby, a sport which requires far less expense and which truly builds character. Countries like Japan and even Sri Lanka are now way ahead of us in the sport. The way things are going, the gap is only getting bigger,” he feels.
 
 Still, he is satisfied that his players are passing on the joy of rugby through coaching. Three of them, Anuya Ketkar, Ketaki Khare and Sharayu Dhimate, are coaching abroad. The city players are offering coaching stints wherever they can, primarily in schools. Neha, for instance, trains at a large housing complex in Undri every week and Annapurna hopes to form a women’s rugby team once she is commissioned into the Army. Surhud has provided the launchpad for the women, and they are determined to give wing to his dreams.
 
