For Gurgaon, sports has meant little more than a round at any of the lush, green golf courses – where corporate honchos finalised their business deals while teeing off, and actors and retired sportspersons enjoyed a leisurely day. But 2016 changed that. With a teenaged prodigy making it to the Olympics, a para athlete winning a silver there, and a Haryanvi chhora leading the Indian team to its third kabaddi world title – all within a few months – Gurgaon is now aware of the countless sporting opportunities at hand. From rustic sports like kabaddi and wrestling to more upmarket ones like swimming, Gurgaon is suddenly game for a lot more than just golf. We speak to this year’s sporting icons from the city about Gurgaon’s new-found love for all sports, and where this trend promises to go in 2017. 

 
 
 There has been a big change in people’s attitude towards sports in Gurgaon. More people in the city are open to sports – and not just the popular ones like cricket. When I’m practising at the pool, parents come up to me and say that I have inspired their kids to take up swimming. The number of kids at the pool has increased a lot in the last four months alone. This is surprising, because in winters, there is usually a dip in the number of people in swimming pools. I’m confident that by the summer of 2017, the interest level in swimming will go higher still. But to sustain this, we need more competitions at the junior level, particularly inter-school meets. That keeps it both fun and expands the reach of the sport, allowing more kids to participate in all kinds of sports. The schools need to take this wave forward now.
 
  
   , Rio Paralympics silver medalist
 
 
 
 Awareness about any sport was low in the city before. Before the Olympics, when I used to practice in my colony, people assumed I was undergoing some sort of rehabilitation. It did not occur to them that I was preparing for the Paralympics. Now, how people look at sports has changed. It is not seen just as a leisure activity by Gurgaon residents anymore. I received a lot of calls from people in their 40s and 50s, who used to be good at sports in their school and college days. They wanted to know about the monetary benefits of competing in the veterans’ circuits in sports like badminton, swimming, shooting, etc. So, it’s not just kids, but even their parents, who see sports as a profession now. The reason behind this is that 2016 has given Haryana and Gurgaon plenty of role models, which is much needed. Cricket has always done well in India because it has role models who have marketed achievements. This year, we had role models in Gurgaon from the not-so-popular sports. But going forward, it is important that this recognition for the players translates into awareness about the sport too. I’m sure there will be a bigger and more inclusive sports culture in Gurgaon in the future.
 
  
   , captain of the Indian Kabaddi team that won the 2016 World Cup
 
 
 
 Gurgaon is a complete city when it comes to the standard of living. But that has not extended to sports till now. Sports has largely been a recreational activity here. Today, when I go to Gurgaon schools on their sports days or athletic meets, kids tell me that they want to take up kabaddi or wrestling professionally. Who would have thought that the kabaddi team captain would be swarmed for autographs by kids in a city like Gurgaon? That is a big change. It’s like the city has woken up to the fact that there are so many sports other than cricket being played, and its athletes are doing well. Sporting leagues and events in the city have raised awareness. In 2017, I’d like to see more academies, for kabaddi and other sports, being set up in Gurgaon. That is one thing Gurgaon lacks. Places like Rohtak and Sonepat have centres of   and sports academies. Those cities have always been known as sporting cities, and it’s high time that Gurgaon joins the ranks as well.
 
 
