On Monday, the main gate of the Faculty of Arts at   was packed with   (DRC) students who took part in a cycle rally organized by the Delhi Police. As part of the   Week, the North District Police organized a women’s safety cycle rally to spread awareness among DU students. More than 100 students participated in the rally. 

 
 Nowadays, the song 'Aisi Dhakad Hai' from 'Dangal' seems to be a favourite at all college festivals. At the rally too, this song was played on loop to motivate the students. Some of the participants were also seen carrying placards with helpline numbers and sections of the IPC which deal with crime against women.
 
  Before the rally was flagged off,  , DCP (North), who was the chief guest, said, "This is part of the Police Week where we interact with the community. This is one of the most important interactions that we are carrying out in our district. With this cycle rally, the message of women's safety will be very strong and should reach everyone in the campus. At this rally, there are more than 100 participants and I salute the spirit of those who have come here to spread the message. The placards that you are carrying, these will bring a change. Even if we are able to spread the awareness among 10 people, then that change is worth it. I would also like to share that a few years back, I was also a part of this campus. I studied in Hans Raj College and graduated in 2004 in History (Hons)," he said.
 
  
  Some of the participants were also seen carrying placards with helpline numbers and sections of the IPC which deal with crime against women
 
 
 
  
 Students were seen enjoying the rally as many were riding a cycle after many years. "I really liked the route that we covered from the Arts Faculty to Hindu, Ramjas, SRCC and Daulat Ram and then back to Arts Faculty. Jab cycle chalana start kara tab thodi problem huyi, uske baad toh bahut maza aaya," said  , a first-year student of DRC.
 
  For others, it was a great experience because, in campus, it’s very difficult to ride without any disruptions. "We don’t ride cycles in campus, as the traffic is really bad. Traffic ki wajah se log chalane bhi nahin dete araam se, but aaj toh sab side bhi de rahe thay aur humein sabse pehle bhi jaane de rahe thay," said Mahima Jain, a DRC student.
 
   , also a first year student from DRC, added, "Aaj toh VIP jaisa lag raha tha. Hum cycle chala rahe thay, aur Police humare saath chal rahi thi."
 
 
  
  Jatin Narwal, DCP (North) (BCCL)
 
 
