BHOPAL: Way back in early 80s, it occupied a pride of place and touted as a fine example of  . The   with   and offered a big facility to passengers boarding South and West-bound trains from Bhopal railway station platform Number 1. Those were the days when sodium vapour lights illuminated the entire stretch of more than one km on which two or 4-wheelers will zip past without a bump. 

 Fast forward to 2017, only four of 70 street-lights work on a main flyover. Potholed road does not make ride any safer, but it does not dissuade traffic police from its plans to make it a stretch for connecting Raisen Road via Ashoka Garden.
 
 More than three decade old, the flyover has fallen in a state of neglect and urgently needs repair. Design faults and lack of maintenance led to collapse of a pedestrian portion of the Bharat Talkies to collapse and loss of two lives in October 2014. A couple in their 60s was killed when a portion of a bridge used by pedestrians caved in. 
 
 After the incident, ministers and top officials rushed to the spot. A revamp of the flyover was announced. “Almost two years after the incident, the government is yet to completely undertake repair of the Bharat Talkies flyover. The road is in a shambles and despite announcements there is no redevelopment,” said activist Abdul Jabbar. 
 
 Focus of local politicians, it appears is not repair of the flyover or its road. Around January 26, some workers had the pavement and footpath painted to welcome local MLA. “Funds could be better used. Painting the footpath will not resolve the situation. PWD should undertake maintenance of the road,” Jabbar says.
 
 For many resident in 1.54 km road connecting railway station flyover has been forgotten and not a priority. Government’s new proposals such as widening and upgradation of the existing flyovers bypassed the major flyover connecting traffic to railway station platform No. 1 to Hamidia Road. 
 
 PWD is responsible for the maintenance of the flyover. When contacted, PWD bridge division officials, said, “The projected portion of a bridge, which led to the accident has been repaired. It is for road maintenance division to undertake the task of road repair.”
 
 The ownership of the flyover has also been a source of controversy. The bridge is on railway land. The streetlight and pavement are maintained by the Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC). Maintenance is the responsibility of the PWD, he said. 
 
 Repair of the flyover was notified in 2015. PWD work on different projects–Chetak Bridge flyover extension, Subhash Nagar flyover is in full swing in the state capital. 
 
 “The flyover has one of the best maintained roads before development of Habibganj flyover. Slowly and steadily, like much else, the important landmarks in the Old city are in a state of decline,” said Mukesh Balwani, a resident.
 
 A main connect to Bhopal’s main railway station, the flyover was maintained by PWD till 2012. Since then the maintenance is handled by bridge division of the PWD.
 
 An internal report of the PWD submitted after the accident in 2014 stated ‘after site inspection we can assume that not enough iron rods were embedded in the portion that collapsed. Furthermore, there seems to be a fault with design structure accompanied by lack of maintenance and fitting of improper fitting of street lights by the civic body”. 
 
