PANAJI: Even before the embers died down at the Kadamba Transport Corporation-managed Panaji  , the blame game began. The Kadamba Transport Corporation ( ), Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) and the directorate of fire & emergency service pointed fingers at each other and refused to accept responsibility for the massive fire that broke out in the wee hours of Monday.

 “Authorities that give the licence or occupancy certificate must ensure that fire safety norms are adhered to and then maintained,” said Ashok Menon, director of Fire & Emergency Services. “The onus lies on the licensing authority and the people themselves. The licensing authority, whether the panchayat or the municipal body… they are aware that norms are there.”
 
 The CCP refused to accept that it was the responsibility of the civic body to ensure that fire safety norms were adhered to. “Our municipal engineers are not qualified on fire prevention and safety,” a CCP officer said.
 
  went on to add, “All these shops come under KTC. Since when is fire safety the responsibility of CCP?”
 
 According to KTC officials, 176 shops and establishments were operating within the complex, of which Presidential supermarket was destroyed in the fire. According to the directorate of fire & emergency service, the fire broke out in the supermarket and then quickly spread to the other parts of the building and burning through the RTO office.
 
 “We have to see if they had the requisite clearances. The shops are leased out by KTC, but the clearances are given by CCP and the fire department,” KTC managing director Derrick Pereira Neto said.
 
 Furtado said the shops had begun to operate nearly 15-18 years ago and though CCP could refuse occupancy certificate to new buildings, old buildings like the bus stand were out of CCP’s purview.
 
 None of the officials that TOI spoke to appeared to have a clear idea when the last fire safety audit of the building was done. Fire and & Emergency Service officers said that they found no evidence of fire prevention systems in the building.
 
 “Fire safety norms are undermined. Our role is recommendatory in nature. If we had teeth then we could do something. But we are recommendatory. I cannot suo motu go and check every nook and corner,” Menon said. 
 
