CHENNAI: The city has been cooler this April than in   This compari-tively   is likely to prevail for a few days, the Met office said.

 Prevailing easterly and southeasterly winds, along with the  , are keeping the city cool. But the temperature will most likely rise to above 40°Celsius in the last two weeks of May, when prevailing winds are replaced by dry land breeze from westerly winds.
 
 “Westerlies will grow in strength every passing day and bring hot air advection.The sea breeze which is cooling the city will be delayed or retarded during the later part of May , leading to hotter days,“ Regional Meteorological Centre deputy director general Y E A Raj said.
 
 This year, Meenambakkam was on average 2°C hotter than Nungambakkam.The normal difference bet ween the two localities, separated by about 15km, is only 1.2°C in April, but this year, there was a difference of 2.05°C,   data shows. Meenambakkam recorded two hot days, where maximum temperature was 40°C or above, but Nungambakkam recorded none during the month.
 
 As the sea breeze was slow this year in travelling inland (westwards) towards the Meenambakkam weather station near the Chennai Airport, It grew hotter this month, the weathermen said.
 
 Nungambakkam, which is closer to the coast was naturally cooler. On Sunday, the difference in maximum temperature between Meenambakkam (37.8) and Nungambakkam (35.5) was 2.5°C.
 
 April also proved to be unusually hot for interior districts. Vellore recorded 44.1°C on April 24, against the all-time record of 44.4°C recorded on April 29, 2000.On the same day, Thiruttani (Tiruvallur district) recorded 44 degrees Celsius. On April 17, Meenambakkam recorded a 16-year high of 42.2°C, while Nungambakkam recorded 38.9°C.
 
 The city was relatively cooler as compared to interior districts. Raj said, “Summer starts late in Chennai. The city is hottest during May and June, not during March and April.“
 
 Last year in May , Chennai recorded three hot days at Nungambakkam and four hot days at Meenambakkam.In 2012, however, Nungambakkam recorded 11 hot days, and Meenambakkam 18 hot days.
 
