LUCKNOW: When the   first warmed up to the idea of an alliance with the Congress in UP,   called up his poll consultant Steve Jarding and asked him for feedback on whether the tie up could benefit the party.

 Jarding's team of 100 people operating from Lucknow returned with feedback from lakhs of   operating across the state that a pre-poll alliance between SP and Congress would be beneficial. The advice seemed prudent in the aftermath of the SP family feud.
 
 Back of the envelope arithmetic by the numbercrunchers then suggested that SP and Congress would benefit from a seat-sharing alliance. A SP leader said, “The belief was that SP and Congress votes would be transferred to each other in seats on which they entered an alliance. We were confident SP's vote bank would be transferred to Congress. But the challenge was how Congress vote bank would transfer its votes to the SP.“
 
 The poll results on Saturday suggested neither camps could convince their voters to vote for the other. In the end, while SP fielded 314 candidates, and Congress 115 candidates, they each ended up 48 and 7, respectively. The hope was SP would consolidate its hold over 19% Muslim vote, seal its hold over the Yadavs among OBCs, and win over at least a section of the non-Yadav OBCs and upper caste voters who tended to side with the Congress.
 
 Mathematically, it was a sound plan. The SP ended up with a 21.8% votes, while Congress with 6.2% votes. In any other election, a 29% vote share has been enough to win votes. In UP, though, in the backdrop of BJP's religious and caste math, aided by the development plank, their combined 28% vote share was no measure against BJP's 39.7% sweep over UP's electors. “It seems that barring the Yadavs and a section of the Muslims, every other vote went to the BJP instead of sticking with the alliance,“ a party leader in the Congress camp said.
 
 Post-poll analyses in the SP-Congress camps ac knowledges that UP voters were not excited about the Akhilesh-Rahul `saath'.Across the state, the popular sentiment was the SP made a “bad decision“ by tying up with Congress. Ram Sumiran Vishwakarma, the president of the most backward classes association, said, “The SP could have easily won at least 60 more seats in UP. But while the SP vote did benefit the Congress in some seats, the upper caste Hindu voters of Congress preferred to vote for the BJP instead of supporting the Congress.“
 
 Senior SP leaders said the tie-up, against the wishes of Mulayam Singh Yadav, has contributed to the combine's rout. A senior leader said, “People could not deal with the fact that the man who built SP was sidelined thus. Also, it was against MSY's wishes that the SP ally with Congress, a party that had finished fourth in UP.
 
