It was a rainy Saturday evening as we waited at a city tearoom on   for rapper   to arrive Are we late?' he asked for an interview. ` with a big grin on his face as we settled for the interaction. The rapper, in town to perform at a city club, opened about his soulmate, the unending love he receives from his fans and his equation with fellow rapper buddies   and Honey Singh. Excerpts:

 
 
 
 (Smiles) Sambar ke saath aloo paratha, Gujarati Sikh Sindhu Maratha! I was born in south India and moved up north soon after. I have stayed in a hostel in Haryana and grown up with friends from Punjab and Delhi. This is why my accent is convincing. I've had very few Malayali friends but I couldn't connect to them much. I'm a Malayali just by my surname.
 
 
 
 No. Instead, I always wanted to become an animator. One would always find me playing video games. I'd sit at game parlours for hours on end and my dad would come to fetch me. My mother thought Bachelor of Computer Application (BCA) would be the right course for me. Who knew that I'll come out as a dancer and singer someday? I started teaching dance when I was in school itself. We would upload our videos on social media to gain popularity.
 
 
 
 I do dance. Let me tell you a secret. The rappers' fraternity do not like if you're rapping and dancing all the time. They prefer staying mostly calm and com posed. I've never followed a set rule. I don't want to confine myself to one art form. I am an artiste and want to explore more.
 
 
 
 Yes, and it has been a pleasure. I have even made Dev sing. I have huge expectations from the song.
 
 
 
 Aise soulmates friends ke ghar pe milte hai! I was a struggler back then.I was fresh out of a dance reality show but she didn't care about my popularity. We both started liking each other and soon became good friends. Would you believe if I told you we've never even gone on a date together? She waited for me when I was a nobody.She is beautiful!
 
 
 
 Komal doesn't like being in the limelight at all. I had a tough time convincing her to attend the Dangal premiere! She doesn't bother about the female attention that comes my way. She is very practical and a strong woman and those qualities make me fall for her every day.
 
 
 
 (Cuts in) People who could not meet him or manage a selfie with him are the ones talking about the lip sync. I heard there was a party or a lunch that was thrown in his honour -one that he didn't turn up for. It is very easy to defame an artiste like him. I know people who posted happy comments and pictures after the concert. I liked the fact that he met underprivileged kids in Mumbai; gave out a free ticket to an auto driver's son -why is no one talking about that? How does it matter to anyone if he has charged a hefty amount? Kisi ke ghar se dahej thodi ja raha hai?
 
 
 
 It's great to know that people love independent artistes. These tracks are free from unnecessary intervention by people who don't even understand the art.
 
 
 I don't take too much to heart. Critics will write about you -be it good or bad. And at times, it helps improve your work.
 
 
 
 
 Nora is a very hardworking person. She wants to prove her mettle to the world.
 
 
 
 
 Every project needs a different treatment. I don't think a song like Baby marvake maanegi could have been possible with someone like a   or a  . There's a reason why she features in the Coldplay video. If I make something that requires the presence of a big star, I will approach them.
 
 
 
 
 Fans left me with nail marks all over my body . Earlier, I'd underestimate my popularity . But I guess, it's only increasing with each day and I'm thankful to my fans for that.
 
 
 
 It's a bond that we share but people tried their best to tamp er with it. But the friendship is only growing stronger by the day . I'm also very close to Jasmine bhabhi (Badshah's wife).
 
 
 
 There were some credit issues. I left the group first. Badshah bhai took a little more time to take the decision. Eventually we understood that it was because of the rift, we are what we are today .There was a time when Badshah bhai and I would go to wholesale shops to buy clothes and wear them in the videos. He'd say `yahin se kapde le le, cheap hai'.
 
 We have seen such days together.
 
 
 
 Because we still love each other! Badshah, Honey and I would do everything togeth er. I wish 10-15 years from now we again sit together, over a few drinks and confess how sorry we are that things went awry .
 
 
 Biryani, of course! I don't leave the city till I've had it.
 
 
 
 (His manager cuts in) He snores!
 
 
