NEW DELHI: A day after two brothers, Raj Kumar Manchanda and Devender Manchanda, were found dead at their shop in north Delhi’s Kashmere Gate, the police have detained one of their two shop workers who had gone missing after the murders.

 Sources said the employee has confessed to the crime. He claimed that he planned the murders as he had a grudge against the two brothers. He first killed Devender and then called Raj Kumar to check on him. As soon as he reached, Raj Kumar was stabbed with a sua (sack needle) on his head and neck multiple times.
 
 Police said the other employee is likely to be nabbed by Sunday night after which their versions will be corroborated.
 
 The Manchanda family said the brothers had been asked to come home early as a kirtan had been organised for their ‘long life and well-being’ as they had not been keeping well since quite some time. “I last spoke to Devender around noon. He had called to ask if there was anything needed for the function at home. All I asked him was to come early, but he never did,” said Sudha, Devender’s wife.
 
 A call was made to the police by the family members who had gone to the shop to check why the brothers had not been taking anyone’s calls.
 
 “Devender had left home at 10am and Raj Kumar at 11.30am. We had asked them to stay back, but they insisted on going saying they had some pending work. They had promised to return home by 1pm,” said Madanlal Manchanda, their youngest brother. He had gone to Punjab for some work and had returned home to be in time for the kirtan.
 
 When Devender was preparing to leave, the accused blocked his way and slit his throat and then stabbed him with the sack needle on his head, sources said.
 
 They then started going downstairs to call Raj Kumar. By then Raj Kumar was already on his way up after hearing his brother’s cries. The servants met him midway and asked him to follow. When they reached near Devender’s body, Raj Kumar was overpowered and attacked. The men then locked them in the office and fled with the keys.
 
 The bodies were found after the door was broken open by the police. “We have detained a few other people apart from the worker for questioning,” said DCP (north) Jatin Narwal. An FIR for murder has been registered. The police don’t suspect robbery as the motive for the murder as the money and jewellery were left intact.
 
 The shops and godowns on all three floors had caught fire a year ago due to a short circuit. However, the family alleged that the shop workers were behind the fire.
 
 
