CHENNAI: Summoned by TN assembly speaker P   for the second time, the belligerent  , in their ‘interim replies’ on Thursday, demanded “documents” and sought to cross examination chief minister   and chief government whip, S Rajendran, in return for presenting themselves before him. 

 They demanded that they be provided protection by Karnataka police, as, they said, they were being intimidated by Tamil Nadu police personnel. While Thursday was the deadline fixed by Dhanapal for the 19 dissidents to appear before him, only Cumbum MLA STK Jakkaiayan presented himself before the speaker and said he joined the others in meeting governor   and withdrew support for EPS under duress. Jakkaiayan had recently switched sides, from the TTV camp to the EPS-OPS group.
 
 The scheduled personal hearing was to take place at 3pm., but P Vetrivel, the TTV loyalist, turned up hours earlier with their advocate N Raja Senthoor Pandian, and submitted all the interim replies.
 
 In their replies, the TTV group contented that the chief minister sent a letter to the speaker about absenteeism of MLAs in the meeting convened by him at the party headquarters recently. “We want the documents to prove that invitations were extended to us. No invite was extended to us. The chief minister, who filed affidavits before the election commission about expulsion of O Panneerselvam, joined hands with him now. We want to cross examine the CM and whip to prove them wrong. Only then will our MLAs make their personal appearance before the speaker,” advocate representing the MLAs N Raja Senthoor Pandian told TOI.
 
 It was high drama at the secretariat when the speaker arrived in his office in the morning with government photographers in tow. Law minister C Ve Shanmugam and chief government whip Rajendran dropped by and held a brief discussion with the speaker. They were followed by Jakkaiyan. Sources said the TTV camp argued that MLAs called on the governor only after the “internal mechanism” failed to address the allegations of corruption against the government. The MLAs questioned the CM’s charge that they did not meet him. They said they had a meeting with the CM in his office during the last assembly session. 
 
 The speaker’s notice to the MLAs on September 7 instructed the rebels to appear before him on September 14, failing which it would be deemed that they did not have anything to say on the issue (of disqualification) and a decision would be taken based on available records.
 
