BENGALURU: A Class 12 student fell to his death from the 18th floor of Prestige  , southeast Bengaluru, where his friend stays, in the early hours of Wednesday.

 Polas is the older son of  , a software engineer with a private company in Electronics City.
 
 A student of The International School Bengaluru, Polas is survived by his parents and a younger brother. According to investigating officers, Polas left a message on a WhatsApp group of his friends, saying, 'Its my final goodbye .... Love you ma.' Police said they did not come across any suicide note from the place of the incident.“Polas lives in Palm Meadows in the neighbourhood. According to eyewitnesses, the boy left his apartment around 3.30am. The   told us Polas drove out in his dad's car,“ a police officer said. When he reached Prestige Shantiniketan, the security staff stopped Polas's car and asked him to enter his details in the visitors' book. “Security personnel did not ask him any questions since he was a regular visitor. He is said to have used the elevator to go to the 18th floor,“ a police officer said.
 
 Whitefield police said they could not record statement from the boy's parents as they were in shock.“We tried our best to take a two-line statement from them. But other family members shouted at us when we visited the parents in the afternoon. We will take the statement by Friday ,“ police said.
 
 DCP (Whitefield) Abdul Ahad told TOI they're investigating how the boy reached the apartment at that hour and fell. “The parents told us it's an accident. The boy fell around 6am. We don't know what happened between 3.30am and 6am.Why did he go to the terrace at that hour? We're investigating if he was alone on the terrace or his friends were with him,'' police said.
 
 “I heard a strange sound in the early hours. I was shocked at what I saw,“ said an apartment resident.
 
 Polas studied at the  , Indiranagar, till class 4 before he shifted to TISB.
 
 
 
 
 A spokesperson from TISB said Polas was a good student.
 
 “We're shocked. He was a very friendly child. The school has declared a holiday on Thursday and there will be a memorial service for Polas on Friday . We offer our deepest condolences to the family ,“ the spokesperson said.
 
