MEERUT: A day after a 60-year old man was killed for "helping" an   in  ,   and sent to jail three persons involved in the crime and said they may have links with "certain  ". The main accused,  , is still at large.
 
  Kiran Pal Singh, station officer at Pahasu police station, said, “We have arrested Pulkit Sharma, Lalit Pratap and Honey Raghav. All the three have been identified by the victim’s family as those who accompanied the main accused, Gavinder Singh, as they beat up Ghulam Ahmed, 60, on Tuesday. All three were produced in court here on Wednesday and sent to jail.”
  
  The SO added, “These people may have connections with Hindu outfits. We have, of course, not found any of them holding any post in Hindu Yuva Vahini, as suggested by some media reports, or any other right-wing group.”
  
  This came even as Muslim residents of Sohi village said there is widespread fear in the area after the elopement of the couple. Shakeela Begum, daughter-in-law of Ghulam Ahmed, told TOI on Wednesday, “Our children are roughed up, men beaten and threatened and the women abused. They say they will cut us into pieces. We would have left this place if we had anywhere to go.” 
  
  Yasin Ahmed, the victim’s nephew, said, “Youths with saffron cloths on their shoulders, who claim to be from Hindu Yuva Vahini, have been coming almost every day to threaten us.” Sohi is a predominantly Hindu village with just four Muslim families residing there.
  
  Bulandshahr SSP Muniraj (who goes by his first name) allayed the fears of the Muslim families and said, “The entire village supports these four families and all were present during the burial of Ghulam Ahmed on Tuesday evening. We have deployed adequate security around their homes, so none of them needs to be frightened of anything. The attackers were from outside the village.”
  
  On the involvement of Hindu Yuva Vahini, Muniraj said, “Our main purpose is to arrest the main accused first. Only then will things be clear. So far we have not seen any involvement of any group.”
  
  Meanwhile, Hindu Yuva Vahini’s district chief said his organisation was against the arrest of three persons and the "unnecessary dragging of our name” in the whole episode. Sunil Kumar Raghav, district president of HYV, said, “The three youths have been framed. There was no videography done by police at the time of the incident, so how did they come to know if it was these three youths who were involved in the crime? A mob has no face. They are innocent. This is a deliberate attempt to malign the image of HYV and Yogiji. We will do whatever is necessary to bring the innocent youths out of jail.”
  
  Ahmed was beaten to death by a group of people in Bulandshahr on Tuesday as they suspected him of aiding a couple from different faiths to elope. In the FIR Ahmed's family has lodged with police, they named Gavinder Singh, "a Vahini member, along with 4-5 men belonging to the right-wing group". Senior officials, including DIG (Meerut) range, SSP and the district magistrate had rushed to the spot soon after news of the death broke out and heavy force was deployed in Sohi and Fazalpur villages of Bulandshahr.
  
  Asked about the couple, superintendent of police (rural) Jagdish Sharma said, “The couple’s location has been traced to Ballabhgarh in Faridabad district of Haryana, where a distant relative of the boy lives. We will recover them soon. Nevertheless, the girl is 19 years old. Now everything depends on her statement.”
