Ed Srimathi 422

 Coimbatore: With the implementation of the long-pending model road project in a few weeks, Coimbatore Corporation is all set to start 2017 with a slew of assignments. The project is aimed at revamping TV Samy Road and D B Road — the two important commercial areas of the city.
 
 Estimated to cost Rs 5.5 crore, the project will make the 1.2km stretch on T V Samy Road and 1.8km stretch on D B Road more pedestrian-friendly. Also, its long-pending parking space problem is expected to be sorted out. Unlike the pathways in other parts of the city, the pedestrian pathways on T V Samy Road will be more than three-to-five metres wide.
 
 Speaking about the project, Sarah Natasha, Institute for Transportation and Development (ITDP) said, “We started studying and planning the road last February. After four months of surveying and designing, the city corporation had sanctioned the final design and tender have also been allotted. We are just waiting for the nod from the telecommunication and other line agencies to coordinate with us.” 
 
 Apart from pedestrian-friendly footpaths, these two roads will have ducts for cables, ramps for differently-abled, table top road-crossing facility, garbage bins, rain water harvesting structures and parallal parking systems. 
 
 Urban planner Sarfraz Yaseen, who designed the road said, “Our study revealed that the pedestrians, who form 30 per cent of these road users, were completely neglected. Several commercial establishments and shopping complexes are situated on these roads. Also, there is traffic congestion due as the devotees frequent temples in the area. We have designed the pathways in such a way that the traffic flow will be smooth and unhindered. Further parking rules will be implemented to ease traffic bottleneck. The road will have trenches and ducts under the pathways so that it needn’t be dug up every time during repairs or new connections.” 
 
 Along with T V Samy Road and D B Road, neighbouring roads such as Sukarwarpet Road, Light House Road, Ramachandra Road, Periyasamy Road, Cowley Brown Road, Mettupalayam Main Road, Sir Shanmuga Street, DB Road, Venkatachalam Street and a part of Thadagam Road will also be streamlined in order to remove all major obstructions to pedestrians and clear traffic. 
 
 After these roads are designed other major roads such as NSR Road, Masakallipalayam Road and Race Course Road will also be revamped. “The architects have planned a cycling track and a walking track only on Race Course Road,” said Sarah.
 
 City corporation commissioner, K Vijaya Karthikeyan said the project has reached the final stage. “We are just waiting for the approval from the line agencies after which the project will be started,” he said.
 
 
