Panaji: With two parallel government schemes running in tandem to provide LPG connections free of cost, Goa has witnessed a drastic decline in the number of people using non-LPG fuels, primarily kerosene. With the dwindling numbers, the government has stopped taking new applications for kerosene connections and LPG companies have decided to declare Goa a ‘green state’. 

 The green state status is a milestone provided by central government to states, which do not use fuels that emanate smoke and poisonous gases. The status is also used as an indicator for reducing kerosene quota for a state. 
 
 As per figures provided by three major LPG-providing companies, Goa’s LPG penetration stands at 127%. Apart from the central government-run Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY), the state government has also got its similar scheme, which is more popular. 
 
 “The 127% milestone is due to the fact that while providing free LPG connections under the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY), a lot of migrants also take up the scheme. We are trying to declare Goa as a green state. We are working with the department of civil supplies and consumer affairs and have asked them to update and synchronise Aadhar card details of ration card holders. As soon as the process is complete, we’ll get a clear picture of the situation in Goa,” assistant manager, sales, Bharat Petroleum Prateek Srivastav said, affirming that the state is among the top performers in adopting LPG. 
 
 Officials at the civil supplies and consumer affairs shared that the state has 12,863 card holders, who subscribe to only ‘non-LPG’ fuels. “The number has come down from over one lakh accounts. Due to the presence of the government schemes in providing free LPG connections, we have been receiving very few applications for non-LPG fuels. We are also planning to start distribution of LPG cylinders with a burner,” said a senior official, adding that the department is working on seeding the ration card holders with their Aadhar cards and so far 97% have been synchronised.
 
 
