 Bareilly: District magistrate directed Bareilly Development Authority to conduct a survey to identify commercial buildings spread on 300 square metre or above but do not have facility of rainwater harvesting. According to data accessed by TOI, only 28 buildings in the city have 51 rainwater harvesting system installed. Experts say that ground water is rapidly depleting and the number is not enough for a city having a population of over 10 lakh.   Taking the cognizance of the matter, district magistrate, Pinky Jowel, directed the officials at BDA on Saturday, to install rainwater harvesting system in all public as well as government buildings by June 30, 2017. To ensure the implementation of the rule, DM has directed the officials to conduct surveys across the city and identify the buildings which do not have the facility installed in place yet.    Speaking to TOI, BDA assistant engineer, R K Singh said, “We have been instructed to launch a five-day drive in city, starting May 10, to check places which do not have rainwater harvesting facility yet. We have also been instructed to approve the map of any new building only when it has the mechanism of rainwater harvesting.”    However, experts are of the view that just 51 rainwater harvesting system in a city with a population of more than 10 lakh is not adequate. “A majority of people are not aware regarding the system of rainwater harvest. They do not know its purpose. Others, who do know about its importance, do not want to install as they think that it is an expensive affair to install rainwater harvesting system,” said Pradeep Kumar, secretary at Jagar Jan Kalyan Samiti, an NGO.    Environmentalist, D K Saksena said, “It is very unfortunate that the ground water level is depleting day-by-day and still, neither the authorities concerned nor residents are taking any measures to conserve the water. The matter should be taken seriously and the civic body should ensure that every building with more than 300 square-metre covered area must have a rainwater harvest installed in place so that there is no scarcity of water in near future.”