BHOPAL:   Prof UN Shukla registrar faced fresh trouble on Friday. This time, Madhya Pradesh Scheduled Caste Commission has sought an explanation from him regarding irregularities in making roster system. Incidentally, Shukla has been in trouble for past two days after authorities, including vice-chancellor Prof MD Tiwari and University Grants Commission (UGC). 

 Prof Shukla has been asked to remain present before the commission on Saturday.
 
 In a letter written to Prof Shukla, the commission stated irregularities in roster deprived several deserving candidates of opportunities. The commission has stopped the university from advertising any post till the inquiry is over. Sources said the commission shot off letter to the registrar after receiving a clutch of complaints against him. 
 
 On Thursday, vice-chancellor Prof MD Tiwari issued a show-cause notice to Prof Shukla for not attending an important meeting of University Grants Commission (UGC) in New Delhi from February 14 to 23. A day prior to that, Shukla faced the heat from   building committee member Pramod Gogaliya. He raised objection over registrar not seeking formal permission before awarding construction of roads to PWD. Sources said members of executive council (EC) were angry over the issue. “Even the EC was also not taken into confidence before making such decision,” said a council member. Sources said the issue would be raised before Governor OP Kohli. 
 
 The VC asked Shukla to explain his absence from the meeting. He also asked him to provide documents related to the issue. Irked over the issue, Tiwari stated by not attending the meeting, he has put the university in trouble. The VC has directed Shukla to request the UGC for allotting a fresh date. He is learnt to have told the registrar not to repeat such mistake.
 
 Sources said the UGC had categorically stated that any failure on the part of university would force it to stop the future grants. The university may face loss of around Rs 7 to 8 crore after the registrar failed to mark his presence at the crucial meeting. 
 
