Among a bunch of children, seven-year-old   cuts a shy figure. But ask her about her favourite sport, taekwondo, and she sheds her reserve quickly.

 “I like practicing kicks and punches, doing the warm-up exercises and special training sessions,” she opened up.
 
 This slight girl from the BMC-run   in Chembur has certainly punched hard to win three gold and one bronze medals in the four tournaments that she has participated so far.
 
 But had it not been for  , her  , Shravni, whose mother works as a domestic help, and other children like her would not have known a world beyond the poverty and squalor of their slum at Vashi Naka.
 
 Having humble roots himself, 31-year-old Kadam, who divides his time between working as a part-time taekwondo coach in an international school and as a clerk at the Taekwondo Association of Maharashtra, started the Sai Garjana Foundation three years ago to teach taekwondo to local children for free. “I have lived in slums.
 
 Anyone can make money, but I wanted to do something for these children. Their parents work as domestic helps or as painting masons. Some of them do odd jobs themselves, cleaning cars to earn a few bucks. Mastering taekwondo can open up more opportunities for them. They can seek admission in colleges or land a job in sports quota,” Kadam said.
 
 Although he continues to shell out money from his pockets, there are times when funds run dry. To earn money, Kadam and his students perform at Ganesh Chaturthi, Navratri and other festivals, where they play the Puneri drum and Lejhim.
 
 “One taekwondo kit costs up to Rs 3,000, while a set of uniform is priced for Rs 1,200. The training cost for 50-60 children is about Rs 20,000. When we register them for tournaments, we pay entry charge of Rs 500 per child. The foundation also provides them track shoes, T-shirts as incentives,” said Kadam.
 
 When the coaching school had started out in 2013, there were about 70 students. Within a year, Kadam’s students began to shine at inter-school tournament. Now, the figure is 150 students, drawn from three   schools. But he has one big dream. “I want these children to win the Shiv Chhatrapati Awards (state sports awards). Government officials will approach them then,” said Kadam.
 
 His brother Sameer, who helps him run the foundation, narrated how Kadam had struggled to be whatever he was today. “Our parents struggled to even pay Rs 300 to register Jaydeep in tournaments. Today, he is giving back to the society,” Sameer added.
 
 Kadam’s struggle has paid off. One of his students, Deepali Wadhe, a Class X student of Marathi Secondary School and a green belt, is one gold medal away from becoming eligible for a government job in sports quota. She now boasts seven gold medals.
 
