AHMEDABAD: State   (SHRC) seems preoccupied with ‘lesser offences’ as it has little time for incidents of serious abuse of human rights.

 The SHRC is mandated to deal with cases of  . However, documents acquired through   show that it pays greater attention to cases that require a stretch of imagination to link them to human rights.
 
 The commission has taken suo motu cognizance in cases of mangoes ripened with carbide; misbehavior by bank staff; illegal mining; delay in passport verification; and a crumbling slab at a bus depot falling on a passenger.
 
 But the SHRC failed to take any suo motu action when a dalit sarpanch in Varasada village of Amreli was killed on Tuesday night.
 
 In fact, officials at the commission could not remember whether they had taken suo motu cognizance of Thangadh killings in September 2012 or even the Una flogging case of 2016 which shook the conscience of the nation.
 
 On May 13, 2015, SHRC officials came to know that 280 kg of mangoes ripened by carbide were disposed of in Kalol, Gandhinagar. Predictably, the commission initiated suo motu proceedings and asked for a report.
 
 The next day a city-based woman was allegedly gang-raped by nine persons. The rights panel did not find the gang-rape worth its attention.
 
 On September 4, 2012, SHRC had taken suo motu cognizance (on the basis of newspaper report) of an incident in which the staff of a nationalized bank in Gandhinagar had misbehaved with elderly people.
 
 Just 19 days after this incident, three dalit youths were killed in police firing at Thangadh town in Surendranagar district. The slain youth were protesting against detention of members of their community. The SHRC again took no proactive action.
 
 On May 24 the same year, the SHRC took suo motu cognizance of an incident in which a man identified as   had sustained head injuries when a crumbling slab fell on him at Patan ST bus depot. The incident had taken place on May 9.
 
 On July 24, 2015, SHRC took suo moto cognizance in a case of illegal mining in which six vehicles were seized with minerals worth Rs 4.36 lakh. In the same month, two rape-survivors had unsuccessfully approached the state high court. The SHRC apparently had overlooked the incident.
 
 A month later, 14 people were killed in the violence that followed detention of Patidar leader Hardik Patel. Reports of police atrocities on people and a case of custodial death was also registered in the same month but the SHRC stayed inactive.
 
 The commission went into action in a case of delay in passport verification on January 22, 2015. In the same month, two incidents of gas and acid leak occurred in the industrial area at Vatva but SHRC did not act.
 
 Kaushik Manjulaben Babubhai got the documents when he sought details under   of suo motu action taken by the SHRC between 2012 and 2015. The commission had not considered Thangadh killings and other atrocities worthy of action.
 
 Babubhai said that in cases like Una flogging incident and atrocities on Patel community members, too, the SHRC had remained passive.
 
 SHRC member M H Shah said he was not aware if the commission had taken suo motu cognizance in the murder of Thangadh killings, Una flogging incident and the murder of a dalit sarpanch in an Amreli village.
 
 "We have initiated suo motu proceedings in the case of carbide-ripened mangoes as it affects the life and liberty of citizens,” Shah said.
 
 
