HYDERABAD/NEW DELHI: Congress general secretary   found himself in the eye of a fresh political controversy when he accused   of encouraging Muslim youth to join global terror outfit Islamic State, triggering angry reactions from the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi, the state government and the BJP which asked him to provide evidence to back his claim. 

 In a sensational allegation, Singh tweeted on Monday, “Telangana police has set up a bogus IS site which is radicalising Muslim youths and encouraging them to become IS modules.” He said the information which led to the arrest of Shajapur (MP) train blast accused and the encounter in Kanpur the same day had come from Telangana cops.
 
 “The issue is whether Telangana police should be trapping Muslim youths in becoming IS modules by posting inflammatory information?” he said, asking chief minister   to respond. The remark triggered a row with the CM’s son and IT minister K T Rama Rao responding, “Most irresponsible and reprehensible thing coming from a former CM. I request you to withdraw these comments unconditionally or provide evidence.” Throwing his weight behind Telangana, Union I&B minister Venkaiah Naidu too slammed Singh.
 
 
 
 Throwing his weight behind Telangana, Union I&B minister and BJP veteran Venkaiah Naidu said, “He should present evidence or (tender) apology. Telangana police shares information on anti-terror operations with other states. Such baseless charges demoralise the forces.”
 
 While Rao’s sister and TRS MP K Kavitha called Singh’s remarks “ridiculous”, state police chief Anurag Sharma termed them as an attempt to lower the morale of the hardworking state police. Known for his penchant for controversial comments, Singh’s latest sent Congress into silence. AICC spokesman Anand Sharma refused to react and said questions were best addressed to Singh. When asked about evidence, Singh said the proof was in public domain as the accused in Shajapur train blast had posted pictures of the train on a supposed IS website, which was actually operated by Telangana cops who later informed the MP police.
 
 Meanwhile, taking objection to Singh’s allegations against Telangana police, TRS MLA Maganti Gopinath lodged a complaint against him at Jubilee Hills police station on Monday. “The MLA alleged that Digvijaya Singh has made baseless allegations to defame Telangana government and the state police. He requested us to take appropriate legal action against the Congress leader and we are obtaining legal opinion,” Jubilee Hills inspector S Venkat Reddy said. The Majlis Bachao Tehreek has demanded a high-level inquiry into Singh’s allegations.
 
 
 
