Bhopal: Forty percent of   cases filed in the state capital turn out to be fake. This shocking figures were revealed in a recent survey conducted by Bhopal police.

 The survey conducted on the total rapes cases filed in 2016 revealed one fake rape case was registered every third day.
 
 The report said, in 2016, 112 rape cases were registered in North Bhopal out of which 48 were found to be fake, while 179 cases were registered in South Bhopal out of which 64 were found to be fake.
 
 Superintendent of police (North) Arvind Saxena said of the 48 fake cases, 14 were related to live-in relationship, and in all the other cases, survivor was known to the accused for at least a year and were in an affair but the relationship could not convert into marriage.
 
 Saxena said, “Since it is not possible to ascertain whether a complaint in real or fake, police take no chances and register all complaints. We are alsdo bound by the law and cannot ignore even a fake complaint by any girl or woman.”
 
 “In many cases, the couple end up breaking with each other and file a rape case against the boy, while in some other cases if the boy is not able to bear expenses of his partner, then also the woman files a rape case against him.” 
 
 Siddhartha Bahuguna, SP (South) told TOI, “In most rape cases, the accused is well known to survivor. In such cases, physical relationship is made with mutual consent. But, even if it is a fake case, we have to register it and investigate. It has been noticed that in such cases, the conviction doesn’t take place in the court.”
 
 GFX
 
 Area – Cases registered Fake
 
 South – 179 – 64
 
 North – 112 – 48
 
 CASE STUDIES
 
 Courts not convinced 
 
 1: In October, 2016, a rape case was registered at Nishatpura police station in which the survivor who lived at an upper floor of a house charged the landlord with rape. They had live-in relationship for four years and the woman gave birth to a child. But as the couple broke-up the relationship the girl filed a case.
 
 2: Two youths went to Dehradun to practice medical profession. They lived together for five years and made physical relationship with mutual consent. When they returned to Bhopal, boy’s family forced him to marry to another girl. Later, the girl failed a rape case against the man at Koh-e-Fiza police station in August 2016.
 
 3: A couple was in a live-in relationship for 10 years and had three children. Later, the 40-year-old man was not able to bear her expenses after which the woman filed a rape case against him in May 2016 at Nishatpura police station.
 
 4: A 32-year-old woman from Sukhi Sewania filed a case against her live-in partner with whom she lived for 11 years in July 2016. The actual reason behind the complaint came out to be an argument after which they ended their relationship and the woman filed a rape case against the man. However, the man was later let off by court.
 
 
