KOCHI: With police probing the wider conspiracy behind the alleged   in a moving car, a second forensic team from Thiruvananthapuram re-examined the vehicle on Tuesday.

 Scientific assistant at   Mary Sherin said the secondary investigation was carried out at Aluva, where the car was kept. “We had taken DNA samples from the car and collected paint samples. The re-examination was done considering the significance of the crime,“ she said. On Monday, police said that the actor had travelled in a  . Though officers maintained that the car was in the custody of the police, they were tight-lipped about its location for the past few days.
 
 Forensic sources main tained that the examination of biological samples will prove vital in establishing the nature of the crime. “We look for biological fluids, hairs and nail fragments in sexual assault cases. Though the nature of each crime scene is different, we managed to collect necessary evidence for DNA sampling,“ Sherin said.
 
 IG (crime branch) Dinen dra Kashyap said the clothes worn by the survivor was sent for forensic examination. “Her dress and the vehicle will undergo thorough forensic examination. Our focus is to nab the remaining two accused, the search has been intensified,“ said Kashyap, who heads the special investigation team.
 
 Sources within the investigation team said the chance of finding body fluids at the crime scene was high. Sources said that the actor's clothes were ripped in the attack. “The dress worn by the actor will be vital as it will prove the grievousness of the offence. The likeliness of discharge of body fluid is also being investigated,“ said a senior officer.
 
 The team collected more evidence to prove that the actors' car was hit from behind. “We collected traces of paint transferred onto the car during the collision to confirm that the van had hit the car. The dent on the car has also been analysed to identify the direction in which it was hit,“ said the forensic expert.
 
 Sources said the actor had given a statement that she was sexually abused inside the car. Sources added that the arrested accused denied abusing her and blamed it on the prime accused, Suni. “We will know exactly who committed the offence after a proper forensic analysis,“ said the senior officer.
 
 The samples were sent to the forensic lab in Thiruvananthapuram. “Though results usually are given within a month, it will be made available as early as possible considering the nature of the crime,“ said Sherin.
 
