JAIPUR: There is a clear push for enhancement of infrastructure for sports in the state Budget announced by chief minister   on Wednesday. A number of academies all across the state are being planned.

 Topping that will be a women’s football academy in Kota. Other academies to be launched are wrestling (men) in  , cycling (men) in Bikaner and volleyball (men) in Jhunjhunu. While Rs 5.17 crore has been earmarked for the first three academies, Rs 2 crore has been allocated for the construction of volleyball academy.
 
 At present 14 academies, eight for boys and six for girls, are running at various places in the state.
 
 There is something for the veterans too, with the state planning to start a pension scheme for special and international level players over the age of 60 from next year.
 
 Money has been allocated for multipurpose indoor halls in places like Jodhpur, Karauli and Alwar.
 
 The chief minister also announced that Umaid stadium in Jodhpur will have interlocking and synthetic basketball courts. Suratgarh stadium in Sriganganagar will also get Rs 25 lakh for improving infrastructure.
 
 A policy will also be formulated for private coaching academies in the state. In all, an amount of Rs 106.08 crore has been proposed for youth and sports affairs, which is almost 25% more than the previous year.
 
 The sports budget was generally welcomed by the fraternity. “The pension scheme is good for the veteran players," Olympian Gopal Saini said.
 
  secretary   said that recruitment of players in government sector should have been part of the Budget. He lamented that there was no announcement for scholarship to talented players. However, he welcomed the announcement of setting up a volleyball academy in Jhunjhunu.
 
 Olympian Krishna Poonia, however, expressed her unhappiness with the budget. "It was announced that pension for sportspersons will start at the age of 60, but earlier pensions were given as soon any athlete announced his or her retirement," she said.
 
 "Moreover, there was no mention of the proposed sports university. Such an university would have benefitted a lot of people," the discus thrower added.
 
 Poonia further said that sports quota in the government sector should have been included in the budget.
 
 
