CHENNAI: As spring makes its brief appearance with flowers in bloom, communities gear up to celebrate their respective new years. 

 The celebrations which were earlier marked by music,   have now mostly become  . A time to turn over a new leaf, April 14 is celebrated by the Assamese, Tamil, Malayali, Bengali and the Punjabi communities in the city with pomp, colour and vibrancy. 
 
 The smell of   being prepared are the memories associated with Puthandu, the Tamil  . "It is celebrated with pomp and show in villages nowadays. The city life has somewhere marred the mood of the festival and people usually keep to themselves," said K Narayana of Aishwarya flats association in R A Puram, adding that the homemade delicacies and the customary puja are the only reminders of the day. 
 
 For the Assam Association in the city, Rongali (colourful) Bihu will be a time for community bonding. "It will be a vibrant amalgamation of traditional Assamese dance and food. Everyone will drape the traditional Assamese attire to welcome the season of spring," said Kishore Kalita, senior assistant secretary of the association, which was established in 1960s. This year the celebration will be at the CLRI campus. 
 
 The golden yellow kanikonna flowers mark the Malayalee New Year, Vishu. "It is celebrated as a festival to express gratitude to God for the harvest season," said Latha Prakash, secretary of Malayalee Association in Velachery, which completed 10 years of its existence. A private affair the special feast or 'sadya' a meal consisting of rice, sambar, banana chips, pickle, 'inchi pulli', 'koottu curry', 'aviyal' and 'payasams', is made in every home. 
 
 Bengalis of the city have some big plans for Poila Boishak, the Bengali new year. The third edition of the Bongo Mela, will celebrate the almanac with Bengali street food, books, arts and crafts."Every year we celebrate with cultural events where many are given a stage to showcase their talents. This year we have around 65 performance requests which is the highest ever and a matter of pride for us," said Moloy Roy of the Bengal Association, T Nagar. 
 
 
