For long, the image of a Christian priest has been that of a staid and straightjacketed person who walked and talked in measured steps and tones. But of late, a couple of them have taken the Internet by storm, hitching up their white cassocks, raising their arms above their head and dancing away with gay abandon.

 We caught up with the dancing priests, Father   and Father Merton D’silva from Kochi, whose incredible footages have earned them a standing ovation and hundreds of thousands of views on YouTube! 
 
  
  
 
 
 As we found out, the unexpected attention is as much as a surprise for the priests as it is to those who have been watching their energetic performances over the internet. “I am just a human being who loves to lead a simple life. It was just an impromptu session with my children and I have no idea how it went viral,” says Father Christy, Assistant Manager, St Albert’s College, who, however admits that he has been a lover of dance since childhood. 
 
  
  
 
 “I enjoy dancing and also watching it but I never wanted to learn it professionally. I love to shake a leg with my students,” he says. Apparently, it was a request from his beloved students on their farewell day that made him perform an impromptu gig. 
 
  The father gives all the credit to his mother for helping him bring his ‘children’ closer to God through dance. “We used to have small dance sessions in college. But all I used to do was enjoy them. Once, when I discussed with my mom about my interest, she asked me to try gaining souls for the Lord through dance. I had never thought about it till then but I found that there was always a possibility for it,” he says. There was no stopping him after that and the ‘jovial’ father has been bringing gen next together for such sessions. And the students are extremely excited about their dancing father. 
 
 Did anyone have a problem with a priest dancing? “No! Never. All my senior priests and even those who have watched the video have been highly supportive. They too think it as another medium to attract the new generation,” he says, adding that he has no plans to make it a regular activity as he has a ligament injury. It all depends on the situation, he says. “My children and I share a good rapport and I cannot refuse when my kids ask me to join them,” he sums up. 
 
 Meanwhile, the latest internet sensation is Father Merton D’silva, who was junior to Father Christy in the seminary! His peppy dance moves in a flash mob that was conducted in front of the St Ambrose Church, Vypeen, is now the envy of even dance choreographers. At the beginning of the video, a group of youngsters are seen dancing to a devotional song, My God is So Big and Strong, when suddenly he takes over with his lively steps.
 
 
 A bit timid about the limelight, Father Merton, says in all humility, “I don’t think you should celebrate this as priests dancing isn’t a new phenomenon. There are hundreds of talented Fathers here who dance much better than me. It is a part of our normal life.” He adds that he has actually danced with Father Christy at the Seminary. 
 
  
  
 
 Father Merton, who recently joined the St Ambrose Church, happened to see the young church members performing a flash mob with film songs in the church. That was when it struck him to try devotional songs for a change. “It was our church Vicar’s birthday and suddenly it struck me, why not try Jesus’ songs for the flash mob, instead of film songs? There are a lot of talented kids here. And we remixed songs such as Awesome God and My God is So Big... with a few other numbers. The performance was good and now, we dance every Sunday after catechism classes,” he says. 
  
  
 An active member of Jesus Youth movement, he has been encouraging youngsters who are interested in dance. “We have conducted flash mobs in popular malls in the city too to spread positive messages. I believe that we can make a difference and bring children closer to God through dance.” he sums up. He also doesn’t forget to credit the Almighty for enabling him to dance despite a ligament fracture.
 
