Besides the symbolic gudhi, traditional flavours play a key role in the   observances. For other communities also ushering in the new year this week, new beginnings are all about traditional food that celebrates myriad flavours, imitating life. We visit their kitchens to take stock of these traditions...

 Pen and pad in hand, youngsters Sanat and Shaunak Sarpotdar stand on the verandah of their 82-year-old family guest house overlooking Laxmi Road. They are finalising the Gudhi Padwa menu. This time, the young guns of the Sarpotdar family have taken it upon themselves to plan the naivedya (food 
 offered as part of worship) and traditional fare that will be partaken of by family, friends and guests.
 
 The New Year is no time to compromise, so they’ve decided on ‘paanch pakwan’, a medley of five sweets. “There’s gulab jamun, shrikhand, basundi, jilebi and aamras. These are traditional, but the sweets might vary across households,” informs Sanat. Why five, we ask. “It’s symbolic of a true feast; the fact that there’s more than one sweet being offered today,” Shaunak replies.
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 Sanat’s mother, Sadhana, has prepared the aamras specially using payri mangoes. “This cultivar is pulpy and easy to digest, hence it is ideal for aamras, but some may use the hapus variety too,” says Sadhana, who insists that the aamras should contain traces of mango bits for added texture. Fresh mango pickle, kairichi dal (prepared using soaked split Bengal gram, raw mango and condiments) and kairi panhe (cooling raw mango juice enhanced with spices and jaggery) are other preparations that will feature at the guest house on Gudhi Padwa.
 
 Kothrud resident Shilpa Bhide, who specialises in Maharashtrian cooking, explains one of the reasons why mangoes might find place on the table on the propitious day. “The season for the king of fruits begins around this time, and especially in the Konkan region, the mango is a staple fruit. It’s believed that there’s no better prasad one can offer God,” says Shilpa. Many households also prepare amrakhand (mango shrikhand), consciously incorporating the seasonal fruit into the day’s menu. Shilpa adds that puran (a chickpea-jaggery mixture, enhanced with cardamom, saffron and nutmeg) is also a must during celebrations, which is why   enjoys equal place on the table. “It was customary for my grandmother to ready a katori of puran and kheer to offer for naivedya,” adds Shilpa.
 
 But the neem chutney, or kadulimba is at the core of the meal. Sadhana says, “It is made using new neem leaves, jaggery, tamarind, chillies and salt, and is considered a blood purifier.” Shilpa adds that some homes don’t make this chutney. Each family member will then consume a neem leaf after praying. “The leaves are bitter, so as children, we dreaded this ritual, but my grandmother would insist we each had a leaf,” she quips.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 NIBM area resident Kavitadevi Vangala, her husband Hanuman and son Vishal are busy readying their home ahead of Ugadi, the New Year of the Telugu and Kannadiga communities, that falls on Wednesday. Besides the preparations, there’s much to be done for the naivedya alone. 
 
  is a key offering, synonymous with the festival, Kavitadevi tells us. “This rich brown concoction is made with six ingredients or ‘shaddruchi’ (six tastes) — neem flowers, raw mango, fresh jaggery, fresh tamarind, salt and green chillies. It is enhanced with fresh coconut and bananas. The bitter, sweet, sour and other tastes of these elements come together, symbolising life’s happy and all other moments we must embrace,” says Kavitadevi. Her family will begin the day with a spoonful of this mixture post the prayers. Other traditional dishes that will be offered as naivedya comprise pulihora (tamarind rice), a rice/semya payasam, garelu (udid vadas), and boorelu (balls of puran dipped in an udid dal-rice batter and deep-fried).
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Like the Ugadi pachhadi, the Kannadigas prepare a similar offering, minus the spices, calling it bevu-bella. Fatima Nagar resident Chandrika Rao says, “It’s a simple mixture of tender neem leaves and powdered jaggery, offered to God.” After prayers, the mixture is distributed among the family. Chandrika adds that a feast on a banana leaf is customary during the New Year. “The meal comprises a traditional pickle, two types of kosambari (South Indian salads), two vegetables, a vegetable gravy, rice, papad, bhajiyas, dal and payasam. All this needs to be served following a certain order, starting with salt, leading up to rice and dal that is topped with ghee,” she informs. Puran poli is something that Chandrika will also make for her family.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 For the city’s Sindhi community, Cheti Chand on Wednesday will begin with a journey to the river banks, with a portion of meethi tahiri (a sweet rice dish cooked with sugar, water and ghee). Camp resident Roshni Mahtani tells us that this is a key offering given to the fish who are considered the vehicles of their patron saint, Ishtadeva Uderolal, or Jhulelal.
 
 “Our new year meal isn’t complete without the quintessential Sindhi-kadhi and chawal along with meethi boondi,” says Roshni. But there are other preparations that one finds being made during Cheti Chand: kanav (a halwa of atta, sugar and ghee), Kabuli chana and mohanthal (a rich gram flour barfi). A visit to the mela at Cycle Society, Rasta Peth or Alpa Bachat Bhavan might be worthwhile, should you want to sample some of these delights.
 
 
 
  
  
 (Pics: Dean Lobo, Shashank Sane, Harshvardhan Shahi)
 
