CHANDIGARH: Former bureaucrats who stood loyal to their political masters over the years are being rewarded by both Shiromani Akali Dal and  , with both offering them Assembly tickets. IAS, IPS & PCS officers who stood witness to the political prowess want to be in the league of their masters this time.
 
  Even 2009 Assembly elections did witness similar trends but not to these proportions. Not all babus have been successful in their poll plunge. Former Punjab DGP PS Gill — a 1974 batch IPS officer from J&K cadre — contested on a SAD ticket in 2012 and lost to his Congress rival by a margin of more than 4,500 votes in Moga.
  
  Gill was handpicked by the SAD-led government as the DGP in 2009. He was brought to Punjab after a special request was made by Punjab CM Parkash Singh Badal to his J&K counterpart Omar Abdullah, for his inter-state repatriation. On Tuesday, SAD announced Tejinder Pal Singh Sidhu as the party’s candidate from Mohali.
  
  Sidhu, 59, a former army officer, was selected to the Punjab Civil Services (PCS) in 1989. He was elevated to the IAS in 2012 and was allotted the 2004 batch. Sidhu remained the Mohali deputy commissioner for around three years from early 2013 to February 2016 and is sonin-law of senior Akali leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa.
  
  Dhindsa’s son is also in the fray. Finance Minister Parminder Singh Dhindsa is contesting against former CM Rajinder Kaur Bhattal from Lehra. SAD is leading the pack by fielding maximum number of retired IAS and PCS officers. Same way Kuldeep Singh Vaid, 56, was Deputy Commissioner of Moga until a month ago. The IAS officer will contest on Congress ticket from Gill in Ludhiana. Even Aam Aadmi Party ( ) has fielded ex-IPS, PPS and PCS officers.
  
  Darbara Singh Guru, former principal secretary to CM Badal, who faced a humiliating defeat last time, is again in the fray Bassi Pathana constituency. SAD has pitched former army chief General JJ Singh (retd) against Punjab Congress chief Captain Amarinder Singh. Amarinder hasn’t lost an election from the Patiala (urban) seat since 2002. 
