
 
  
 
  
  If the lake is de-silted, the lake’s water retention capacity will be severely hit. Proposed boating facility will affect the breeding of birds for which   is famous for.
  
  Lorries and excavators used to de-silt the lake and other works, like raising and widening lake bunds, constructing toilets, children’s park, toilets and a bufferfly park, and that too in a drought year, will damage the pristine environment of the lake.
  
  Instead of filling up the surroundings of the lake with concrete structures, ensure that it gets fresh water, as the feeder channels that used to fill the lake have been destroyed owing to rapid urbanization. Else, ensure that the lake gets recycled water.
  
  Before taking up any lake-related work, thorough research on conservation and protection of the lake has to be carried out. Citizens and stakeholders opinion has to be sought before going ahead with any work.
  
  
 
  
  Several NGOs are planning to launch a 'Save Kukkarahali Lake’ protest on a larger scale on February 28, near the Deputy Commissioner’s office. In the past few days, nature lovers have been taking turns to express their concern over the impact that the development work will have on the flora and fauna of the lake. The protesters have been holding peaceful rallies, holding placards and orchestrating a signature campaign against the work.
  
  
 
  
  The project was approved long ago, but work has begun only now. After members of the   and few other environmentalists discussed the impact of the work on the lake's ecosystem, I asked authorities of the   to stop the work until the issue is sorted out in an amicable manner. While the protesters are not against the desilting of the lake, they say that the timing of the operation is wrong, as scant rainfall in past months and possibilities of drought will ensure that the lake dries, which in turn will be dangerous to bird and aquatic life dependent on the lake. We will seek expert opinion from the Karnataka Lake Conservation and Development Authority for the development of the lake.” -D Randeep, Deputy Commissioner.
  
  
 
  
  Memes poking fun at the work at Kukkarahalli Lake are going viral online.
