AHMEDABAD: A spat is going on between parents of  , 33, and the family of his estranged wife,  , over insurance money. Bhadoria had given his life in service of the nation in a gunfight with militants that took place in February this year in Kulgam district of Jammu and Kashmir. 

 Bhadoria’s father, Munim Singh has accused Hemvati of receiving Rs 18.75 lakh from the state and central government group insurance scheme as Gopal Singh’s wife even when proceedings were going on for divorce. He has also alleged that Hemvati presented a fake will of Gopal Singh to the Army authorities. Munim Singh has lodged a complaint of cheating and breach of trust against Hemvati and her father Dilipsinh.
 
 While Hemvati is currently working in Dubai, her father Dilipsinh refuted all the claims and said that they would take legal recourse against the attempt to defame them by distorting facts.
 
 According to Krishnanagar police, Munim Singh Bhadoria, a resident of Heerawadi, has lodged the application. 
 
 The application mentions that Gopal Singh had joined Indian Army in 2003. He married Hemvati in February 2007. Munim Singh, his wife, and Gopal Singh had frequent altercations with Hemvati. She accompanied Gopal Singh when he was transferred to Manesar, Haryana in 2008. In October 2008, after a fierce spat, Hemvati returned to her parents’ home and never returned.
 
 The application mentions that when Hemvati applied for passport, she mentioned her status as unmarried. The divorce proceedings were initiated in November 2011 when both Gopal Singh and Hemvati had signed the document for submission to family court. The divorce however was never legalized as the application was eventually dismissed, when applicants were absent in multiple hearings.
 
 Dilipsinh, Hemvati’s father said, “It was Gopal Singh who did not wish to get divorced and thus delayed proceedings. The said will was in fact given to us by Gopal Singh’s brother Sanjay after his death. The Army tribunal has dismissed the Bhadoria family’s claim of divorce even as we insisted that they get their rightful share.” Dilipsinh added that the martyr’s family has got everything else, apart from the Army remuneration – which is Hemvati’s right – and which she would continue to get.
 
 He added that the Rashtrapati Medal will be received by Bhadoria family only and they would ensure that they get their due. “However, they have misrepresented the facts in their application and we would take legal recourse,” he said.
 
 
 
