BENGALURU: The long-awaited suburban rail system for Bengaluru has been finally approved by the ministry of railways with riders. In a letter to additional chief secretary (urban development)   on Thursday , the railway ministry said the Railway Board has agreed to the proposal of the   government for conversion of 15 existing short-distance passenger trains into   (MEMU) with 12 bogies at a cost of Rs 327.79 crore.

 It also has approved a proposal to take up enhancement of maintenance facilities for MEMU at   at a cost of Rs 29.45 crore.
 
 The suburban rail project will be taken up at a cost-sharing ratio of 80:20 between Karnataka and the ministry of railways. It will be implemented by the railways, instead of the special purpose vehicle mooted by the Karnataka government.
 
 "As of now, we have agreed to pay 80% of the cost and the Railway Board has agreed to pay the rest. We want to start the work on suburban rail as of now for the benefit of commuters in Bengaluru and later bargain for 50:50 cost-sharing," Mahendra Jain said. On January 16, 2017, an MoU (memo randum of understanding) was signed between the ministry of railways and the Karnataka government for development of suburban rail system in Bengaluru four years after the government sent out a proposal.
 
 The railway ministry's letter to Kar nataka also stated the work of the enhancement of maintenance facilities for MEMU rakes at Banaswadi will be taken up after approval of the work in supplementary budget of 2017-18 of the Union government. “The railways has agreed to provide two MEMU rakes during the financial year and the remaining seven MEMU rakes in 2018-19 for manufacturing units of Indian Railways since 15 short-distance passenger trains require nine rakes,'' it stated. It has been over 12 years since the demand for a suburban rail across the city came up. In the past few years, it gathered momentum, compelling the state government to take it forward following `chukubukubeku' campaign. Experts said the project is finally heading in the right direction and has received the required impetus from the ministry .
 
 Two railway ministers from the state -Mallikarjuna M Kharge and DV Sadananda Gowda -have tried to push the idea, but their tenures were short to set the ball in motion. Gowda had mentioned it in his railway budget speech.
 
 Under the special purpose vehicle cost-sharing formula, the government had suggested 20% contribution from the railways, 20% from the state government and the rest from banks as the railway minister had emphasized that the project will be handled by the state alone.
 
