DUBAI:  , electric craft and clear-thinking head, nailed the reason for his shock, second-round exit from the  , in much the fashion he sees openings and finds the lines when on a tennis court. The 35-year-old Swiss' 6-3, 6-7 (7-9), 6-7 (5-7) loss in just over two hours to a Russian qualifier in a late-night affair was as much about his game not being up to the mark as it was about the unknown.   is the name.

 “I didn't know Donskoy. I didn't know what his patterns were,” Federer said, shaking his head. “I didn't know what his preferences were, if he hit a big forehand down-the-line. Is that normal or is that just right now? Is he going to do that on big shots or not? All that stuff got me a little tense and I never could quite play freely.”
 
 The 18-time Major winner, who had three match points in the second set tie-break and led 5-2 in the decider and then 5-1 in the tie-break (of the third set), said: “Tennis is this way , margins are small. On a fast court like here, you can't find much rhythm. Next thing you know, you're struggling.”
 
 The 26-year-old Donskoy, for whom compatriot   stood in as coach, came into the match not knowing what to expect. “I've never even practised with him,” the world No. 116 said of what turned out to be a positive for him, his biggest weapon on a night Federer wasn't feeling his best. “I surprised everyone, I think,” Donskoy said, beaming. “Whoever wins against Roger surprises himself.”
 
 “I really struggled on the return. I didn't quite time it well,” Federer, playing only his second tournament following a six-month injury break, said. “Maybe I wasn't committed enough. That sort of is a feeling you get and it trickles into your entire game. Timing was off for me. Legs also felt slower. I felt tired all day. I tried to get myself in shape, like warm-up properly, do all the things I always do.”
 
 Federer, who'll now go on to play the two Masters events in the United States - Indian Wells and Miami - was understandably out of words as he was out of shots each time he could've closed out the match.
 
