CHENNAI: No CCTV footage of former Tamil Nadu chief minister J   in the intensive care unit or the ward is available with   Hospitals in Chennai as there are no cameras there, hospital president Dr K Hariprasad said on Wednesday. The CCTV cameras are placed strategically outside the ward, he said.

 On Wednesday, Dr Hariprasad told reporters in New Delhi: “When someone is sleeping and is being treated as a patient there will not be any CCTV camera. It will not be there in any hospital across the world.” On Monday,   leader   said his aunt   had shot a video of Jayalalithaa while she was undergoing treatment in Apollo Hospitals. He also said CCTV footages were available with the hospital. Jayalalithaa was admitted to hospital on September 22 last year. She was declared dead after a cardiac arrest on December 5.
 
 “Now, we can’t respond to anything everybody is saying. We will extend support to the inquiry commission (that would probe Jayalalithaa’s death),” said Dr Hariprasad. The Edappadi K Palaniswami government on Monday announced that a one-man commission led by retired judge A Arumughaswamy will probe Jayalalithaa’s death.
 
 “We welcome the inquiry commission over Jayalalithaa’s death. We will cooperate with the commission,” Dr Hariprasad said. He declined to comment on the contradictory statements made by senior ministers regarding meeting or seeing Jayalalithaa in hospital. Dr Hariprasad said his hospital had already handed over copies of medical records to the state government to clear doubts about the 75-day treatment given to Jayalalithaa last year.
 
 O Panneerselvam, who was given the chief minister’s portfolios in October 2016, and several of his senior colleagues and partymen visited the hospital regularly and updated reporters periodically on Jayalalithaa’s health condition.
 
 On Saturday, forest minister Dindigul C Sreenivasan said none of them had the opportunity to meet Jayalalithaa in the hospital and they had lied when they said they saw her. Since then, there has been a spate of statements by his ministerial colleagues, contradicting him and claiming they had all seen her when she was in hospital.
 
