NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: Long and frequent power cuts in both   and   have left residents fuming. While frequent power cuts were reported in sectors 30, 44, 63, 92 and 93A of Noida since Sunday evening, Indirapuram saw eight hour-long power cuts daily for the past three days. 

 “We have been facing daily power cuts for the past 10 days. One wonders what kind of work is being carried out that requires so many cuts. Is it a gap somewhere or lack of proper working by the concerned staff that leads to such outages?” asked  , a resident of Stellar Greens Apartment, Sector 44.
 
  Mukul Singhal,   superintending engineer (Noida), said: “Digging work via cranes by private contractors resulted in damages to several underground cables, including power cables. Repairing a cable cut takes anywhere between 7-8 hours to a couple of days depending on its damage, as it requires first locating the cut, and then fixing the damage.”
 
 To ward off further damage, Singhal has instructed his department to lodge FIRs against private contractors involved in such JCB diggings.
 
 Meanwhile, the others sectors were affected because the transmission department was replacing the existing overhead conductors in Bhangel with high transmission light state conductors, which have more than 2.5 times current capacity in comparison to the old ones. “As a result there was power disruption in these sectors. Once job is the completed, the power supply to sectors 30, 63, 64, 71, 72, 75, 76, 77, 78 and more will improve considerably,” Singhal told TOI.
 
 In Ghaziabad, several areas of Indirapuram saw long outages since Saturday. “In the last three days, we have exhausted two thousand litres of diesel worth Rs 1.25 lakhs to run gen sets,” said  , president of Arihant Harmony RWA, Ahimsa Khand 2.
 
 “When summer begins, why do officials make tall claims of no power cuts, if they can’t fulfill those claims? Summer has barely set in and we are already awash in power cuts. God knows what lays in store for the coming months,” said Ashish Kumar, a resident of Gaur Green City, Vaibhav Khand.
 
 Power department offficials have attributed the outages to a breakdown in a power line coming from Sahibabad.
 
 “A 220kV line coming to Indirapuram from Sahibabad has developed snags, due to which Indirapuram and sectors 1 and 2 of Vaishali have been affected. Repair work is going on, and supply will be restored by midnight,” said MC Sharma, PVVNL superintending engineer (Ghaziabad).
 
