GUWAHATI: The   have ordered an inquiry into a report by an   of   who alleged that two Bodo militants were killed in a fake encounter by a joint team of Army, police, CRPF and SSB in Chirang on March 30. 

 Assam DGP Mukesh Sahay told TOI that it is mandatory to institute an inquiry in every encounter as per the guidelines of NHRC. "We have been following the NHRC guidelines in totality and in this case, too, an inquiry by a judicial magistrate is on. Apart from this, we have asked the IGP, BTAD (Bodoland Territorial Autonomous Districts) Anurag Agarwal to conduct and inquiry in this case. Wait for the report," Sahay said.
 
 He added, "If there is any complaint, a case could have been lodged and instead of local police, the CID could have inquired into the complaint. So far, no case has been lodged by anyone in regard to this incident."
 
 The police headquarters in a statement said, "It has been brought to the notice of the government that Rajneesh Rai, IG, CRPF, Shillong, has made certain allegations regarding an encounter which took place on March 30, 2017 at   under Amguri PS of Chirang district. In the above encounter, 2 prominent NDFB(S) cadres, namelly Lukash Narzary @ Langfa (30), s/o - Narayan Narzary, vill.- Oxiguri, PS- Amguri, dist. - Chirang [42nd batch Myanmar trained ] and Eyob Islary @ David@Dayub (23), s/o- Bineswar Islary, vill.- No.2 , Dhubri, PS - Amguri, dist.- Chirang [locally trained cadre] were killed in the above encounter. One Insas rifle with 10 rounds of ammunition, one 7.65 mm revolver with three rounds of live ammunition, one Chinese grenade and fired empty cases had been recovered from the place of occurrence. All NHRC guidelines are followed in this case."
 
 Police added that the sub-divisional magistrate of Chirang district, Jayanta Sarkar, is conducting a detailed magisterial inquiry as required under NHRC guidelines.
 
 "The government of Assam views the matter very seriously and is committed to taking appropriate action on receipt of the inquiry report and report of the DGP, Assam," a government spokesman said.
 
