CHENNAI: Like a student scrambling for more time in the last minute of the exam, the   school education department seems to be striving hard towards fulfilling the slew of education reforms that it has announced over the past one year, to improve the quality of state board curriculum and ready students for competitive examinations. Experts, however, say the reforms need to be implemented at a quicker pace to ensure success of students in competitive examinations next year. 

 The department has announced more education reforms in the past one year compared to the collective changes that have been made over multiple academic years. Some of them are scrapping the ranking system to discourage rote learning, introduction of board exams at Class XI level, change in syllabus in three phases (Classes I, VI, IX, XI in 2018-2019, Classes II, VII, X, XII in 2019-2020 and Classes III, IV, V, VIII in 2020-2021) over the next three years, setting up of   coaching centres, introduction of an online RTE portal to ensure transparency in admissions, teachers’ training and introduction of new textbooks, among others. However, in the absence of a well-oiled mechanism, most of the initiatives — interdependent on one another — lack speed and are not bound by deadlines. While some plans are in the preparatory stages, others beg for urgent action.
 
 The department has not yet come up with a definite timeframe to set up the promised coaching centres. Stating that dates cannot be revealed until tenders are finalised, department officials say they are searching for resource persons to teach at the centres. No deadlines have been set on conducting refresher courses for teachers on the new syllabus, evaluation patterns and a concept-oriented exam format. Officials say the delay is inevitable as the changes are dependent on the new syllabus content, which is not ready yet. 
 
 But given that students are well into the current academic year, experts say the department may have to rush through some of the changes. For instance, the current batch of Class XII students will have to follow the old curriculum, as the new one is slated to change only in 2018-2019. Academics say the government has to speed up its initiatives — from setting up coaching centres or introducing students to concept-oriented teaching — to prepare next year’s NEET aspirants. 
 
 Principal secretary of school education department Pradeep Yadav admits that the entire process needs to be speeded up to ensure that the changes are implemented at a suitable time. 
 
 "Currently, the focus is on the writing of textbooks and getting the right resource persons as it will bring changes in teaching and evaluation systems. A broad framework of the curriculum will also be ready in November. The question bank (of 50,000 questions) announced by the education minister will be released towards the end of the academic year to help students with exam preparations," he said.
 
 Yadav stresses that the main issue is not the syllabus, but the way it was being taught. "More than 80% of the state syllabus is similar to CBSE’s. The board examination for Class XI was introduced to ensure that the content for the class is not skipped as it was earlier practised by many   to prepare students for Class XII. Now, we are reorienting teachers and schools to focus on both years of study so students will be better prepared and ready to face NEET next year. The pedagogy will undergo changes starting from January," he says.
 
 "Unlike earlier, many schools, due to the introduction of Class XI board exams and pressure from parents, have now started taking Class XI syllabus seriously," says Sathish, director of Paavai School, Namakkal.
 
 Although appreciative of the state’s initiatives, Vineetha, a parent of a Class X student, is more sceptical about its quick implementation. "My only solace is that I have enrolled my son in a   to help him prepare for NEET, but I hope the government meets its deadlines," she says. 
 
 M Anandakrishnan, chairman of the curriculum framework committee, says three important changes have already kicked in. "The first is that focus has come back to the Class XI studies in classrooms. Secondly, the blueprint-format of exam papers which encourages students to mug up answers to specific questions is being phased out. Thirdly, coaching centres, which are being set up in government schools are going to be a stopgap, yet convenient solution to ensure that the current batch of students isn’t left out," he says. 
 
