Mumbai: The process for restoration of   shops, permit rooms and bars has begun in Nagpur, Yavatmal and Jalna in  , a senior official said on Monday. He added that it will be done in Latur and Jalgaon after completing formalities.

 The official said proposals for denotification of state highways had been received from collectors of Nagpur, Yavatmal and Jalna and municipal commissioners of Latur and Jalgaon to beat a   order to   liquor shops, permit rooms and bars. 
 
 In the months to come, most state highways will be denotified, so liquor shops, permit rooms and bars will not have to be closed, the official said. “We will follow the apex court guidelines. If state highways are denotified, the verdict will not be applicable,’’ he said.
 
 In fact, more than half a dozen collectors have knocked at the state government’s doors to denotify state highways in their areas. Chief secretary Sumit Mullick presided over a high-level meeting to take stock of the situation on Monday.
 
 “We have taken note of the apex court order to ban permit rooms, bars and liquor shops on national and state highways. Instructions have been issued to heads of all departments to ensure there is no violation of the SC verdict,’’ Mullick told TOI.
 
 The meeting was attended by director-general of police Satish Mathur, additional chief secretary (home) Sudhir Shrivastava, urban development secretaries Nitin Kareer and Manisha Mhaiskar, public works secretary Ashish Kumar Singh and Sanjeev Kumar, who is holding charge of excise.
 
 Mullick said he was told that the urban development and public works departments had received proposals to denotify the state highways. “We will take a call on these proposals later. We will consult the law and judiciary department,’’ Mullick added.
 
 A week after the SC’s interim order, legal opinion was given to the Kerala government that the apex court order is not applicable to permit rooms and bars on national and state highways. The state excise department had restored licences of 15,699 permit rooms and bars on national and state highways. But when the final verdict was delivered on March 31, the SC made it clear that all liquor shops, permit rooms and bars on national and state highways will have be to be shut with immediate effect, following which the state government revoked its order.
 
 The official said efforts were on to denotify state highways on the lines of Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. “We are studying decisions taken by these state governments. If the SC decision is implement, we will suffer a loss of Rs 7,000 crore but it is the state government’s responsibility to implement the SC order,’’ he said.
 
 A meeting between the chief minister and Maharashtra Liquor Merchants’ Association, which was to take place on Monday, has been deferred following the ‘preoccupation’ of Devendra Fadnavis.
 
