NAGPUR: The  , residing at   at  , lost 25 tola gold and cash Rs50,000, worth around Rs8 lakh, from their house without a single lock being broken. The theft came to light on Saturday, when complainant Tarun’s mother Krishna opened an almirah to take out some cash, and discovered that the valuables and money were missing.

 Tarun and his parents,  , had left home on May 4 for a vacation in Thailand. They returned on May 15 but the family was busy attending to Krishna, who had developed fever during the holidays. After the theft came to fore on Saturday, the ailing Krishna has been inconsolable, sobbing incessantly over the old ornaments.
 
 The family and cops from   are equally puzzled since there was no sign of any break in at the bungalow. The cops are now looking at the insiders who could be involved in the theft. The family said there are five domestic helps, apart from driver Badal, at the home.
 
 The Biswas family also had CCTV cameras installed inside their bungalow, but they had been disconnected as the wiring system was being overhauled along with the other interior works. Tarun’s brother Pranay and sister-in-law Chetna, who stay in the other portion of the house, also did not doubt anything since the domestic helps regularly came for work. Around a dozen carpenters were engaged in work on the ground floor. The family had not accessed the first floor, from where the valuables were stolen, in the last few days.
 
 One of the domestic helps, who had access to the bedroom, worked in the bedroom for two days when Tarun and his parents were away. She was later told to stop coming till the family returns. It’s learnt that the same woman also used to often open the almirah from where the valuables were stolen, to keep clothes. The keys to the drawer in which the valuables had been kept were also under the clothes. These keys were apparently used by the thief and then returned to the same place, which was another reason the family did not notice the theft for some time.
 
 Senior PI Manoj Sidam of Sadar police station said there are some clues in the case. “We are trying to solve the theft,” he said.
 
