AHMEDABAD: Choosing to present the   on `Vasant Panchami', finance minister   has indeed presented a bouquet of roses to income tax payers with an income of up to Rs 50 lakh. He has granted them an across the board effective relief of up to Rs 12,500, some meaningful capital gains tax incentives, a 5% tax cut for the MSME sector and some welcome measures to facilitate ease of business. However, the roses are not without some attached thorns.

 LLPs denied relief given to MSMEs
 The 5% tax cut has been restricted only to companies, thereby denying this benefit to partnership firms and `limited liability partnerships' (LLPs) with a turnover of less than Rs 50 crore.These LLPs will still be subjected to tax at 30%. It is pertinent to note that a very large number of entities in the MSME sector still operate as firms or LLPs. There is not logical justification for excluding them from this important relief.
 
 Suggestions based on Easwar panel accepted
 It is heartening to note that a number of proposals, presented by us on behalf of the   regarding taxability of capital gains and promoting ease of business, have been accepted. The most important of these suggestions is shifting of the base year of indexation from 1981 to 2001. This will have a direct impact on reduction of tax liability , particularly in the case of sale of immovable properties.
 
 Another noteworthy relief is regarding the provision for taxing the gains arising from joint development agreements in the year of completion of the project. This will curb unwanted litigation and avoidable hardship.
 
 Freedom from the trap of domestic transfer pricing, increase in monetary limits for maintenance of books of account & audit, reliefs in certain provisions of TDS, etc, form part of the package of proposals for ease of doing business.
 
 However, the thorn in FM's bouquet of reliefs is his leaving out, once again, of reliefs is his leaving out, once again, salaried earners, home loan-seekers and investors from the benefits accruing from the enhanced limits of deductions and exemptions in their current reliefs, which are long overdue.
 
