NEW DELHI:  , the Lady Sri Ram College student and daughter of an Army martyr who had found herself at the centre of a social media storm over her stand supporting freedom of speech, withdrew from the campaign she had started against the ABVP and opted out of Tuesday's mega march by students in Delhi University against violence by the RSS's student wing.

 Kaur sought privacy, tweeting, “I've been through a lot and this is all my 20year self could take“.
 
 Sources said after having faced rape threats and vitriol on Twitter, Kaur left for her hometown, Jalandhar. However, the English literature student followed the march closely on social media and tweeted her reactions, expressing pride and longing to be at the march herself.
 
 Police registered an FIR and initiated a probe in to the alleged rape threats given to Kaur. Cops have invoked sections on sexual harassment and criminal intimidation. The ABVP, too, filed a police complaint against unknown persons for threatening Kaur. The group is planning a counter rally on Thursday . The Delhi Commission for Women issued a notice to Facebook, asking it to deactivate accounts of those who had issued rape threats to Kaur.
 
 Kaur's teachers at LSR, who were present at the march, released a combined statement lauding her reaction to the violence. “It is immensely gratifying to us as her teachers that she has responded sensitively, creatively and bravely to events in her immediate context rather than seek the refuge of silence...We are proud that Gurmehar has fulfilled her duty as a young citizen of this country ,“ it said.
 
 Her teachers also called cricketer Virender Sehwag and actor Randeep Hooda's responses as “shameful“. “Responses on social media by public figures such as Virender Sehwag and Randeep Hooda are shameful trivialisation of the intimidation that Gurmehar faces at the hands of the violent mobs whose viciousness the university has recently witnessed,“ they said. The statement has been signed by 17 teachers of the English department at LSR.
 
 Meanwhile, CM Arvind Kejriwal met the lieutenant governor over the violence during a seminar on `Culture of protests' at   last week and sought action against students who had indulged in violence.
 
