GURUGRAM: At a time when most popular pubs and restaurants in the city are trying to circumvent the Supreme Court order mandating the closure of establishments that sell liquor along highways, five employees, including the manager, of a night club were arrested in the early hours of Wednesday for allegedly operating beyond the permissible time limit and misbehaving with policemen. 

 Police claimed that soon after SHO Devendra Kumar of DLF-1 police station received a tip-off that N-Joy Club in   was operating way beyond the permissible time limit in the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday, he along with his team reached the club around 1.10 am on Wednesday and asked the manager, Pawan Kumar, as to why was the club open till that time as it had permission to operate only till 1 am. Pawan told the SHO that they had instructions from the club owners to keep it open till late in the night. The SHO and his team, however, directed the employees to shut the club and left the place. 
 
 After 30 minutes, the SHO along with his team went back to the club and saw that the club staffers were still serving food and beverages, including alcohol, to customers. When confronted, the manager along with his colleagues and bouncers started misbehaving with the police team. 
 
 The SHO immediately called for more policemen and arrested the accused. An FIR was registered against seven, including two club owners who are absconding, under sections 332 (voluntarily causing hurt), 353 (assault), 186 (obstructing public servant in performing duties), 187 (omission to assist public servant when bound by law to give assistance), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of IPC at the DLF-1 police station. The arrested night club staffers have been identified as Pawan Kumar, Rahul, Satender Rana, Narender and Manoj Gupta. The club owners have been identified as Vijay Ahlawat and Vikki Ahlawat. The accused were produced in a city court on Wednesday that sent them to judicial custody. 
 
 “We are conducting raids and will soon arrest Vijay Ahlawat and Vikki Ahlawat,” said  , SHO, DLF 1 police station.
 
 On March 16, the bar owner of Bottles and Barrels in Sector 30 was arrested for allegedly attacking and thrashing a cop who confronted him for violating the deadline. The cop had suffered minor injuries in the attack. On January 19, two partners of J-one bar were arrested for allegedly thrashing a team member of the excise department when they reached the spot to conduct a raid. 
 
 
