NAGPUR: A debate over gender equality and women’s safety started on Wednesday following vice chancellor SP Kane’s refusal to allow entry to girls inside Nagpur University hostel beyond the time limit in the evening.

 The demand to extend the entry deadline from 7pm to 9pm for girls staying at NU Girls Hostel at Gandhi Nagar was put up during the discussion over several issues plaguing the students.
 
 Following a massive students’ protest, Vice chancellor  , Pro-VC Pramod Yeole, registrar Puran Meshram and finance officer Raju Hiwase invited a delegation for discussion. Five girls, representing hostel inmates, had joined the delegation during the talks with the NU top brass.
 
 One of the five girls Shabeena Sheikh, a first-year student of political science, flayed the VC over his refusal as well as the condition proposed for late entry into girls hostel. “It is unfortunate that being a vice chancellor he holds such views. When we sought permission for just two more hours to stay out, he asked for a declaration from our parents,” she said.
 
 Sheikh, who is preparing for civil services, said, “Our parents have full faith in us therefore they have sent us to a different city. The VC is our local guardian. It is demeaning and humiliating for us when he sought a declaration. Do they have similar conditions for boys,” she said.
 
 Another girl, a native of Gondia district, said our PM Narendra Modi is talking about women empowerment and equal status but our educational institutions are sabotaging the vision. 
 
 Vice chancellor SP Kane admitted that he was unable to fulfil the demand because of security reasons.
 
 “Girls don’t want time restriction. I told them that until they were staying in the university hostel they have to return by 7pm. It is a rule and safety measure too. Their safety is the university’s responsibility,” he said.
 
 Kane added that there can be exemptions but not every girl could be permitted to stay out beyond the deadline and not on a daily basis. “If they have to attend function in the department, attend any conference or are getting late for some reason they can stay out but need to take permission,” he said.
 
 He said if girls are joining any class or extra curricular activity which gets over by 8 or 9pm then such students need to apply and provide details. “We will allow,” he said.
 
 Activist Ankita Shah suggested that the NU can take help of technology to keep a watch on their students. “Ultimately, security of girls is most important. Girls must not forget about it. The university can get an app developed through which they can be in touch with each other as well as seek instant help in case of any emergency,” Shah said.
 
 Supporting the VC, she added that the NU is also right in its own way because in the end it will be held responsible if something untoward happens after it allows girls to stay out late.
 
