PANAJI: The politics of pink was discussed threadbare by women representatives and activists at a meeting called by the   (NCW), which is looking at replicating the pink polling booth concept across the country. 

 Women representatives, including those from the  , congratulated chief electoral officer (CEO) of Goa, Kunal, for the initiative saying it encouraged women to go out and vote, but objected to the stereotyping of women by using the colour pink. 
 
 The moot question, whether such initiatives actually translated to more women participating in the political process was also hotly debated at the meeting. 
 
 The meeting was convened by  , member secretary of NCW, who is at present in the state as a special observer for gender related issues. The NCW believes that Goa could be a model state for pink polling booths in the country.
 
 The concept of pink polling booths, handled entirely by women, and pink teddy bears as gifts for first-time women voters, which debuted at the 2017 assembly elections, had generated much hype within the state and beyond. First-time male voters were given pens. Kunal said that the voter turnout at pink polling booths were significantly higher compared to other polling booths.
 
 Naman Sawant, a chemist who also writes on social issues said that it didn’t augur well for the CEO to hand over pink teddy bears to grown-up first time voters. She suggested that they be rewarded with pens or pamphlets that list out their duties and responsibilities as citizens. 
 
 Instead of the colour pink, the women representatives suggested rainbow-coloured booths that portray women as multitalented.
 
 Bedi replied that the teddy bears were only symbolic and meant to be an icebreaker for those who exercised their franchise for the first time. The commission, she said, is considering having more polling booths in other states that are managed entirely by women.
 
 This election saw only 7.5% women candidates contesting with the   fielding one woman out of the 36 candidates and the Congress fielding 3 out of 37. Sawant said more women would be encouraged to enter politics if there was internal democracy within political parties. 
 
 Sawant also appealed for reservations for women, urging the commission to take it up for at least one tenure and see the feedback. 
 
 Prashanti Talgaonkar, a teacher, artist and women rights activist said that parties only give tickets to people they consider winnable, and when people do come forward, they have their character destroyed, especially on social media.
 
 “When you have a polling booth handled very well by women it definitely empowers us,” added Talgaonkar, who said that women were once looked at as being delicate and soft but this isn’t the case any more. 
 
