KOLKATA: The   between Trinamool and   descended to a new low on Wednesday , with wanton use of   and personal attacks.

 A day after national BJP leader and Bengal unit minder Kailash Vijayvargiya called chief minister   a “psychiatric patient“, Trinamool paid back BJP in the same coin, likening PM Narendra Modi to a rat.
 
 Party MP Kalyan Bandyopadhyay called the PM the “son of a rat“ to describe what would happen to him and his party . “E holo indurer bachcha, durdur kore kotore dhuke porbe (He is the son of a rat, will scamper into a rathole),“ the Serampore MP and senior lawyer said. 
 
 The CM focused more on politics, saying the CBI arrest of Krishnanagar MP Tapas Pal and Kolkata North MP Sudip Bandyopadhyay was only the first act of the drama and that its subsequent acts could be much worse. Modi's “PMO controls the Central Bureau of Investigation“, she said, referring to the agency that she called the “Conspiracy Bureau of India“ two days ago. “He came like a lion but wait till yo see him scurry like a mouse, she said, referring to Modi and suggested there was conspiracy to kill her.
 
 Calling Modi an agent of China, Banerjee iterated tha he was trying to sell Indian ci tizens' data to Chinese compa nies like Paytm, and then com pared him to Ravana. Mamata said, “What has Sudip (Bandyopadhyay) done? What have Mukul (party leader Mukul Roy), Subhendu (state minister Subhendu Adhikari) or Bobby (state minister Firhad Hakim) done? I know the plan, the following acts of this drama. Sudip was told not to raise his voice against demonetisation in Parliament and, since he did it, he was arrested. But this won't stifle our voice.“
 
 The chief minister's fusillade continued for nearly an hour as thousands of   supporters converged at the protest venue adjacent to the Reserve Bank of India office at Dalhousie Square.
 
 “A conspiracy was hatched to kill me in a plane crash. Later they suspended two pilots.Now the Air Traffic Control is putting the blame somewhere, others are putting the blame elsewhere. Cops are not getting documents to conduct a proper probe,“ she alleged.
 
 “The central government is dangerous. They can do anything,“ Banerjee said. “An unprecedented, pointless terror campaign is going on,“ the Trinamool chief claimed.
 
 The CM alleged that the CBI was no longer autonomous but was functioning as a PMO extension and doing what it was being asked to. “When the CBI is unable to draw up appropriate charges, they are being asked to create them. This is what happened in Sudip's case. Test his signatures and you will know whether he was involved or not, I dare you,“ she said.
 
 The demonstration followed her party MPs' Delhi walk from South Avenue to Rashtrapati Bhavan to meet president Pranab Mukherjee, the third such meeting after demonetisation. Trinamool MPs accused the Narendra Modi government of having imposed a “super emergency“ by launching the exercise and engaging in “vendetta politics“. The CM blamed the RBI and Sebi for grooming and nurturing Rose Valley . “Why was Rose Valley established? It had the support of the RBI and Sebi when it was set up. Incidentally, both Rose Valley and Saradha were set up before the Trinamool regime in Bengal.“
 
 “If you really want to investigate, you will have to start with the CPM. All Ponzi schemes started during their time.People like Sujan Chakraborty were behind Saradha. I have a whole list ready . Bengal has had a tradition of chit funds that proliferated under the CPM's tutelage,“ she said. The CPM was being left out of the inquiry because it was secretly in sync with the BJP.
 
 
