NAGPUR: Union minister for road transport and highways   has reportedly expressed displeasure over some   asking for votes for themselves, sidelining the panel of candidates in that ward during the   election campaign. He cautioned all candidates, saying his aides were keeping a watch in all wards.

 With just two days to go for polling, Gadkari conducted a closed-door meeting with BJP’s 150 candidates and booth incharges on Saturday afternoon at a city hotel. It was his first meeting with all candidates and obviously the last.
 
 Leading the   campaign in NMC elections, Gadkari continued a series of public meetings for the third day in the city. He addressed 10 public meetings on Saturday. He will hold public meetings and some more closed-door meetings on Sunday and Monday. He will cast vote and leave for New Delhi at 1pm on February 21, the polling day.
 
 Sources told TOI that BJP city president  , during his address, informed Gadkari that some candidates were asking votes for themselves. “Kohle said BJP is known to be a disciplined party and all four candidates should campaign together and seek votes for their panel,” sources said.
 
 In his over hourlong speech, Gadkari directed the candidates to ensure victory of all in the panel. “Gadkari said developmental projects of Rs49,000 crore were approved for the city. Gadkari informed candidates that the BJP hopeful of winning over 100 seats. Therefore, he suggested all candidates to take efforts in honest manner,” a source said.
 
 A senior BJP leader said Gadkari also suggested candidates to not assume themselves as big than party leaders and workers. “Gadkari asked all candidates to respect party workers especially those not given tickets. Gadkari said injustice has been done with many party workers so candidates should interact with all and campaign for victory,” the sources said.
 
 As per information, Gadkari advised candidates to ensure 75% voting. Gadkari said 90% of youths are likely to vote for BJP, considering a slew of developmental projects. He also asked candidates to gather mobile numbers of voters who shifted to other places and ensure as much polling as possible.
 
 All candidates have planned rallies in their respective wards from morning till 5.30pm on Sunday, the last day of election campaign. Candidates will begin closed-door meetings with voters from evening of Sunday and on Monday.
 
 Many BJP candidates have started to distribute slips highlighting voter and booth number of voters door-to-door.
 
