PACHPADRA: With a languorous continuity, a formation of six people both men and women could be seen extracting salt from a 25 ft deep pit on one side of the NH-112 near   where the crude oil refinery has been proposed to come up. Toiling in the pits in the life-sapping, searing heat of June touching 44 degrees celcius is just another harsh reality the folks here have learnt to live with. Scanty rain fall, sodic soils and the sandy terrain barely give an assurance for agricultural activities.At best a crop of bajra which requires a shower or two constitutes the region's farming.

 In the absence of livelihood options, people fall back on the ungainly activity of extracting salt, which commands a pittance in the market compared to the produce of Phalodi or Sambhar. But the pits give an unofficial ownership of the land whose lease has not been renewed since it was first given during the tenure of late   as chief minister of the state.
 
 In spite of being a poor cousin to major salt producing locations like Sambhar, Phalodi, and Didwana, Pachpadra had its own share of a British-era history, thanks to this basic household commodity .
 
 The quest to own and exert better command was the main reason why the British laid the railway line to Pachpadra despite its sub-par quality of salt. The dilapidated   built in 1938 harks one back to the pre-independence era when the British used salt as a weapon to control geographies and rule people.
 
 The meter gauge line in Pachpadra that once connected the salt fields of Rajputana with British controlled salt networks and markets in the imperial India is no more in existence. But the station building which has been left to ruin reminds how Pachpadra was once a strategic interest to the British.
 
 While there is no official record of the quantity of production, some accounts suggest Pachpadra in its heydays accounted for 5-6 lakh mounds of salt in 1921. But over the years, the number of pits have been declining steadily as it was not commercially rewarding. Now, there are only 40-50 pits producing about 100 mounds.
 
 “Some members of the Kharwal community are still engaged in the activity . It is not because of choice.Rather, there is no other choice than this,“ says B D Charan.
 
 A stark reminder of hardship and poverty, these salt pits may have given Pachpadra a slice of Raj history, but the burden of owning it seems to be the last thing people want. Recently, when   collector called a few people owning the pits, they were ecstatic. They knew the refinery needs these land and they will get some compensation to surrender them.
 
 “It's a dead-end. The pits are a constant reminder of suffering. We hope the refinery comes up here and puts an end to the perennial ordeal,“ says Mangilal Kharwal in a tone that lacked conviction.
 
