GURUGRAM: The arrest of Unitech promoters   and   has revealed that the real estate company had floated a   scheme in 2012 and raised Rs 600 crore from some 55,000 people who fell for the 12% return promised. Most have lost their money, some their lives’ savings by investing in this scheme.

 This was in complete violation of all norms because Unitech cannot raise money in this form. Only banks, NBFCs, housing finance companies and a few others can offer FDs with RBI’s permission. 
 
 The Chandra brothers were arrested from Delhi by Gurugram police’s economic offences wing ( ) on Monday, and produced before the court of civil judge (junior division) cum judicial magistrate, Amit Nain. They got five days’ custody. The brothers are now likely to be produced before the court on Saturday. Currently, there are 24 different cases against them before various courts for criminal breach of trust and fraud, non-payment of fixed deposit amount, etc.
 
 The EOW is now taking the Chandra brothers to different locations to collect documents related to the FD case. “We are collecting documents to trace the investment of money collected from people,” said an EOW official.
 
 The EOW, in its submission before the Gurgaon court while seeking custody of the Chandra brothers, had said they found Unitech had no licence and permission from   to collect money as FD. 
 
 The money collected from investors was channelled into different Unitech projects through various   with offices in Agra,  , Kolkata, Chennai, Lucknow, Bengaluru, Chandigarh, Mohali, Hyderabad and Gurgaon.
 
 TOI has found that in the past two years thousands have filed complaints with the company law board (CLB) – which became the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) in June last year. CLB passed several orders in the past two years in favour of depositors, directing the company to refund the amount. But most of these orders have not been executed and the company filed an application before the New Delhi branch of CLB in 2015 seeking extension of time for repayment. They also wanted the rate of interest to be lowered from 12%. But CLB dismissed these appeals. According to the details given by Unitech to CLB, they raised around Rs 600 crore from 56,436 depositors.
 
 Subsequently, in October 2016, NCLT, in an order, mentioned that investors, many of whom are either senior citizens or are facing acute financial crisis, have approached this forum for redress of their grievances “with the fond hope of retrieving their investments”.
 
 “They (investors) have alleged that the company have siphoned off the money and have diverted investments into their subsidiaries and joint ventures (JVs) with the intention of depriving the depositors of their rightful claims. The agitated depositors are aggrieved that their lives' savings entrusted to the company are not being repaid,” NCLT had said.
 
 Unitech submitted before the tribunal that the financial health of the company was critical as the real estate industry was down. 
 
 Despite repeated attempts -- phone calls, SMS, email -- Unitech spokesperson refused to comment on the FD scheme. 
 
 
