CHANDIGARH: What will be the impact of the   verdict on religion and elections in Punjab given   are round the corner? Religion, the influence of deras and sacrilege cases of the Guru   have been important issues all through the campaign for all parties. 

 Experts seem divided on the issue as some believe that it is a powerful verdict that will help in illegalizing electoral appeals in the name of Sikh panth or other religions, but some think that the immediate impact would be limited.
 
 Terming it as an explicit judicial mandate for complete secularization of electoral politics, noted lawyer and an expert in constitutional issues Anupam Gupta says it would render illegal any electoral appeal or mobilization in the name of Khalistan by extremist groups. “A significant impact of the verdict is that it would render illegal any electoral engagements with deras (sects) in Punjab given that there are many deras in Punjab and all political parties flirt with them,” he said.
 
 Not seeing any immediate impact of the judgment in Punjab polls, Prof Bhupinder Brar of political science department of   said that two main political parties, which could have used religion during the polls are contesting in coalition. Even appeals to save panth would not work in these polls because the Centre is ruled by one of the alliance partners in Punjab. Had there been congress at the Centre, appeals like ‘Panth is in danger’ would have worked,” Brar added.
 
 He explained that deras are not communal or religion-based. According to Brar, caste could have been a factor but on account of several parties, it would also have no impact in the polls.
 
 Noted sociologist and retired academic of  , Professor Manjit Singh was of the view that the court has only spelled out what has already been provided for in the Constitution. “In the context of Punjab polls, I don’t think it would have much effect because cast, religion and deras are deep rooted in the state and have been mobilized by various groups for decades,” he said.
 
