MEERUT: On April 22, a video emerged of a muscular young man with a handlebar moustache and a blue scarf around his neck appealing to his   brothers” to “not fall in the trap of the BJP, which only wants to incite communal violence for electoral gains”. On April 20, the party’s members had taken out an unauthorized Ambedkar Jayanti procession in   village of Saharanpur. 

 It led to clashes in the   locality. The man in the April 22 video was   ‘Raavan’, founder of the Bhim Army, which has shot to prominence after the recent incidents of violence in Saharanpur. Its leaders claim it has presence in seven states and at least 40,000 members.
  
  On May 5, in violence between Thakurs and Dalits, 60 Dalit houses were torched and women and children attacked at Shabbirpur village, also in Saharanpur. On May 9, Bhim Army members were en route to a mahapanchayat when they were stopped by the police, leading to violence. Top leaders of the organization have been on the run ever since, with police alleging they were linked to Maoists.
  
  The Bhim Army was started by Azad, a lawyer from Chhutmalpur in Saharanpur, in 2015. He came to the rescue of Dalit students beaten up for drinking water from a common tap in his former college. 
 
 He realised that an organisation was needed to deal with atrocities against Dalits and also to spread Ambedkar’s ideology, recall the organisation’s leaders. The Bhim Army was formed, started holding meetings in villages and towns around Saharanpur and asking people to join and donate.
  
  “We are a social organization and do not propagate violence. But we will not compromise on our self-respect and our pride. Ambedkar had said that if you can’t eliminate casteism, then be so proud of your caste, that others will eliminate casteism out of jealousy,” said Vinay Ratan Singh, national president of Bhim Army.
  
  The Dalit community of Gharkoli village in Saharanpur decided, in March 2016, to take pride in their caste. A board was installed at a village entrance with the word ‘great’ before the caste name. The Rajput community of the village objected. “They said, ‘how can a lower caste be great?’ They wanted to remove the board but the Bhim Army intervened and the board stayed,” said Singh.
  
  Nakul Sawhney is a film maker who has seen the organization evolve since 2015. “They were a small group but had a tremendous amount of positive energy. They were taking daily classes for children in schools and colleges and were spreading awareness about rights. Charges about Maoist links are simply not true,” he said.
  
  Chandra Bhan Prasad, Dalit writer and activist believes that the Bhim Army has been able to capture the anger long pent up in the lower castes. “Dalits would not be expected to speak up if there were atrocities against them. That is what the upper castes are used to. Now that Dalits are asserting themselves, the upper castes simply can’t take it,” he said.
  
  People such as  , doctorate in history and a civil services aspirant from Meerut, are leading the organisation’s mobilization in the absence of top leaders. He only got to know of it after the Saharanpur violence. “Bhim Army’s cause is so just that people are getting attracted. All Dalits have faced discrimination silently. Now they are beginning to assert themselves. The momentum is massive,” he said.
