NEW DELHI: After two hours in the milling crowd at the residence-office of Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari, Sheetal Kumar, 25, realised that politics isn’t for the impatient. Her desire to meet Tiwari in person after submitting her biodata for selection as party candidate in Karawal Nagar’s Shiv Vihar ward for the April civic polls will have to wait another day.

 The civic elections have ignited the aspirations of thousands of young men and women who have begun to look at politics as a   option. Municipal bodies are often considered incubation centres for future politicians, and the corporation polls have attracted over 40,000 hopefuls, two-thirds of them freshers. The applicants are a mix of party workers and people never earlier associated with politics, indicating, according to long-time observers, a passion for local politics not seen before.
 
 Pooja Manish Jha was successful in getting Aam Aadmi Party’s nomination for the Mubarkapur Dabas ward. The 26-year-old postgraduate from Delhi University had been among the 13,100 people in the AAP pool for selection as candidates for the 272 seats in the three corporations. AAP took an early lead, finalising most candidates before BJP and Congress had even started perusing the documents submitted by their aspirants. 
 
 “We gave around 60% of the tickets to the youth, and most are enthusiastically campaigning now,” said AAP functionary Ashish Talwar.
 
 BJP was the biggest magnet for applications, not surprisingly perhaps after the party decided not to nominate any of its 152 sitting councillors. Sheetal Kumar was among the 16,800 people hoping to have her name up on the saffron-and-green banners. In the last one week alone, the party received more than 6,000 applications. “The criteria for final selection will be the candidate’s ability to win, his or her integrity and the passion to serve the people of Delhi,” said Rajesh Bhatia, general secretary, Delhi BJP.
 
 Congress might be out of favour nationally, but over 11,000 people fancied their chances with the hand symbol. Following the win in Punjab, there was a spurt of submissions, though the deadline for application had passed. The bundles of applications have been scrutinised and the final list of candidates is being drawn up.
 
 Other hopefuls have found accommodation in the lists released by Yogendra Yadav-led Swaraj India and JD(U), both contesting for the first time and in all the 272 seats. There are a couple of Poorvanchali parties in the fray too.
 
 
