KOLKATA: The probe into the   complaint against   seems to be headed the Apollo Gleneagles way with Swathya Bhawan on Thursday setting up a three-member committee to inquire into the allegations levelled by the family of Sunil Pandey, who died at the hospital on March 13. 

 “For Medica, we have set up a three-member committee to probe the complaint,” said chief minister Mamata Banerjee. The panel, with specialists in cardiothoracic and vascular surgery, othopaedic surgery and medicine, has been given seven days to submit its report. 
 
 The police on Thursday questioned cardiologist Dr Sunip Banerjee, under whom Pandey was admitted, for four hours at the east Jadavpur police station. Apparently not satisfied with his answers, the investigation team of an ACP, OC and other senior officers might ask Banerjee to return for another round of questioning on Friday. “We have collected all the papers and records of the patient’s treatment. The decision on how to proceed with the probe and the angles to look into can be taken only after we go through them. We have been given seven days,” said Dr Plaban Mukherjee, head of cardiothoracic and vascular surgery department at   and a panel member.
 
 The case centres around Pandey (42), who was admitted to   on March 6, after suffering a massive cardiac arrest. He had to be revived with cardiac massages and several electric shocks, and his condition had to be stabilized before an angioplasty could be carried out. Doctors said the angioplasty did improve Pandey’s circulation, but the pump function could have been damaged in the repeated heart attacks leading to a clot in his left leg, which had to be amputated. 
 
 “It is difficult for a layman to understand why the patient admitted with heart problem was subject to amputation. The patient’s heart stopped several times, making it a difficult case for doctors. The gangrene in the left ankle put him at a greater risk. A pool of doctors were engaged, doing their best to save him,” said a Medica doctor. 
 
 Pandey’s leg was amputated on March 11 following a nod from his family and two days later, he died. The family lodged a medical negligence complaint at the east Jadavpur police station, approached   and met CM Mamata Banerjee. “We are ready to help the probe team with all the details,” said Dr Alok Roy, Medica CMD. 
 
 
