NEW DELHI: Congress accused BJP of usurping the mandate in Goa and Manipur through crony governors, stating that whimsical decisions of Raj Bhavans were making a mockery of norms while expressing confidence that a BJP chief minister in Panaji would only last two days till the floor test in the assembly.

 Congress is set to raise the issue in Rajya Sabha on Wednesday, a move which will intensify the confrontation between the government and the opposition in the wake of assembly elections in five states. 
 
 Deputy leader of opposition in Upper House Anand Sharma is learnt to have moved a notice to speak on the controversy.
 
 Attacking BJP, Congress vice-president   said on Tuesday, “They are saying it is okay for them to misuse the office of the governor... In the two states where we won, democracy has been undermined by them (BJP) using financial power, money. That is what is happening. The mandate of the people of Goa and Manipur has been stolen by BJP.”
 
 Congress spokesman and Supreme Court lawyer   said the Union government was spreading a canard that   did not choose its legislative party leader even though it was done in 24 hours which is “not a long time”.
 
 Interestingly, a clutch of Congress functionaries blamed party managers for what they called the Goa fiasco and demanded action — an allusion to party general secretary  , who is in charge of the coastal state.
 
 Satyavrat Chaturvedi, Congress chief whip in Rajya Sabha, and   said the delay in Goa should be investigated and accountability be fixed. 
 
 They said timely action should have been initiated since the party did not have a majority and had to talk to other parties and independents.
 
 Meanwhile, Singhvi said the Congress legislature party leader was chosen around the time the governor met BJP nominee  . “So, media reports are false. There was no delay by Congress. We wrote to the governor after coming to know from the official press release that she had invited BJP but there was no response,” he said.
 
 Singhvi said the Supreme Court has ordered a floor test for Thursday, thereby “interfering with 50%“ of the governor’s decision. He expressed surprise that BJP, which has claimed majority support in the assembly after getting only 13 MLAs in the House of 40, sought 15 days to prove majority.
 
 The apex court lawyer said the Manipur governor announced in the afternoon that she was satisfied with BJP’s claim even as the party chose its legislature party leader only in the evening.
 
 Accusing the governors of acting whimsically to help BJP, Singhvi said the reasons given by the Raj Bhavans in Goa and Manipur to deny Congress a chance were contradictory and showed the governors were not "coordinating" their excuses to justify their partisanship.
 
 He said the Manipur governor’s decision had made a mockery of constitutional norms since BJP got an invite with 21 MLAs while Congress was denied despite having 28 MLAs in the House of 60.
 
