MANGALURU: Even as   unit gears up to hold a harmony rally at Nehru Maidan on February 25, Hindu organizations have called for a hartal on the day opposing the visit of Kerala chief minister   for it. 

 Pinarayi Vijayan is expected to deliver a talk on communal harmony at the rally. Meanwhile, Vishwa Hindu Parishat ( ) and   leaders on Monday requested like-minded people to support the hartal voluntarily to oppose the visit of Kerala CM to Mangaluru. 
 
 “The CPM has been trying to play with the sentiments of people of   district by inviting Pinarayi Vijayan, who heads a political party that is responsible for killing of hundreds on ideological lines in Kerala. Hence, we have given a call to observe a hartal in Dakshina Kannada district on February 25 opposing the visit of Pinarayi Vijayan, who is encouraging political killings,” M B Puranik, regional working president of VHP, told reporters. 
 
 Releasing a list of BJP, RSS and other Hindu leaders, who are said to have been killed in the home district (Kannur) of Pinarayi Vijayan, VHP leader said the CPM is trying to suppress voice of its opponents through murders and violence. “We express our deep concern over public rally on ‘communal harmony’ to be addressed by Pinarayi Vijayan. It is ironic that such a public programme on communal harmony will be attended by a person, who is from a political party whose hands are stained with blood of hundreds of innocent Indians. Dharamadom, the constituency of of Pinarayi Vijayan in Kannur district of Kerala, is witness to huge number of political murders. The CPM, which has a strong base in this district, has been successful in peddling violence in the name of protection of the minority. Hence, we are calling for a hartal on February 25 in protest,” Puranik said and added that a memorandum has been given to the district administration seeking ban on Pinarayi Vijayan’s address in Dakshina Kannada district. 
 
 “We have appealed the district administration that Pinarayi Vijayan not only be restricted from addressing the public in the district of Dakshina Kannada, but also be barred from making public appearances,” Puranik said. 
 
