NAGPUR: CPI (M) general secretary  , on Saturday, said Left parties would fight with right-wing outfits in a democratic way. He indirectly blamed the BJP, RSS, ABVP and other saffron outfits for creating trouble in educational institutions like   (JNU),   (DU), Hyderabad University, Ramdas College, and even in Nagpur University.

 Yechury was interacting with the media on the sidelines of a seminar titled ‘Erosion of Indian democracy: Challenges and solution’, organized by Dr Ambedkar College at its hall near Deekshabhoomi. 
 
 “It’s (trouble in universities) happening everywhere. Some forces do not want the country to run in a democratic way and are creating trouble. The only way is to fight them through a democratic process. I’ve the confidence and optimism that people of India wouldn’t allow such incidents. Tolerance is the essence of democracy,” said the   MP.
 
 On the possibility of a mega alliance between regional parties before the 2019 general elections, Yechury said there was still time, but they would “continue to make efforts to unite like-minded parties”. 
 
 Speaking about clashes between Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and Left parties in Kerala, which have taken an ugly turn with activists from both sides being killed, he said “they started the trend”. “During a victory procession of the CM, a bomb was hurled leading to the death of our activist. It all started after that. Out of the 11 men killed so far, seven are from out party. It’s up to the investigation agencies to decide who is responsible and how such a situation is created,” said Yechury.
 
 Commenting on the controversy that erupted after NU cancelled the same event he was to speak at on Saturday, which was then hosted by the Dr Ambedkar College, Yechury said it was quite obvious that vice chancellor SP Kane was under pressure. “I’ve received the invitation card and also flight tickets from NU. The VC was chief guest of the event where I was supposed to deliver the speech. It was all fixed much in advance. Sudden cancellation of the programme naturally suggests that there was some pressure on the VC.”
 
 On the possibility of a ‘law and order situation’ arising, as said by Kane, Yechury said, “That’s for the agencies to answer. But after my visit to the historic Deekshabhoomi, I don’t see any such thing happening,” he said.
 
 The CPI leader refused to comment on Yogi Adityanath being named as Uttar Pradesh chief minister.
 
