 are slam dunking their way to the top. Two months after the boys   clinched the national championship, the women proved their prowess by bringing back the senior national basket championship after 32 years in a historic win in Puducherry on Saturday.

  The final had them battling Telengana in a tight match that had them trailing 46-51 before star performer Jeena PS along with Rojamol and Anjana won the match in cinematic fashion with a score line 68-59. 
 
 
 
 
 Jeena, who was also adjudged the player of the match for scoring 20 points, is visibly chuffed as she shares her excitement. Reaching the final was also a dream-come-true moment for her as, she says, “In 2013, I was sitting on the sidelines at the stadium during the final as we crashed out in the quarter finals. I had then asked myself if I would ever get a chance to play a final in the Kerala jersey.”
 
 For Jeena, the latest match was nothing short of “magical”. “It was amazing. We went in thinking that we had the upper hand because we had beaten the Telangana team during the group stages,” she says. “But by the second quarter we were behind and that dented the morale of the team as well.”
  The Wayanad-based player, along with her teammates, says their coach Anthony Stephen deserves the credit for raising their spirits, with his pep talk and strategy before the final quarter. “We went out there with an aggressive game plan and everything just clicked from then on – the defence was spot on and our shots were perfect,” says Jeena, who works with the Kerala State Electricity Board in Trivandrum.
 
 
 
 
 Coach Anthony, incidentally, was part of the team that had lost the finals last year to Indian Railways. He tells us that he had been licking his wounds with several plans and strategies, especially to overcome the crunch situation that team were in, in the final quarter.
 
  “We were down till the third quarter but we were definitely not out. I asked them to strengthen their defence and play aggressively. But the girls stuck to their guns and showed a lot of grit, playing smartly and tactfully in those last few minutes,” says Anthony.
 
  Ask him if the win made up for the loss last year, and he beams, “After the defeat, we were determined that we would bring the trophy home this year. We have a really good team and I have high hopes for every player.”
 
  Their determination and persistence sure reflected their nickname, 12 Lionesses, says the team captain Athira Makkoottan. “There was so much team spirit going into the matches. After the victory, the responsibility of the team now is to never relinquish the coveted title,” she says, resolutely.
 
 
 
 
  Looking ahead, the player and coach stress the need for more practice schedules. Anthony says that he had just 21 days to train the team, out of which all team members were present only in the last week.
 
  Athira, who was present with the team from Day 1, says “We were only nine when the practice started as the rest of the members who are college students were having another camp in the university level. So, they joined us after two weeks.”
 
  The practice matches had them in two teams pitted against each other. “We need at least 10 members to play a match with five players a team. That’s the only way each player would understand their teammates’ moves, strengths and weakness, so we can work out a strategy,” Athira explains. “This time we were able to win mainly because our team had members who have been playing for the past 5 years. That experience helped but it won’t every time.”
 
  Echoing their opinion, Anthony says, “I believe our team can be invincible if we train them well. For that to happen, a decision has to be taken by the governing bodies of the sports to give them enough time, rather than scheduling practice sessions just prior to a tournament.”
 
 
 
 
  That being said, the coach is now optimistic about the prospects of the team. “The best players from Kerala team will be selected to represent the national basketball team. I am sure at least five of our girls will be chosen this year.”
 
