On March 31, seven plays were expected to perform at  , the annual street play competition of  , but four out of the seven were not given permission to perform. The college authorities feared that the plays, which were on nationalism, could lead to unrest in the campus. But Ankur, the theatre society of  , got another opportunity to showcase their play, The  , which was one of the plays stopped at Ramjas. It was at the Lok Kala Manch, where Shunya, the dramatics society of Ramjas College, organized its annual public performance ' '. 

 
  
  On April 1 and 5, DT carried the news of authorities at Ramjas denying permission to four colleges to perform in their annual street play competition, Mukhatib, which was followed by a silent protest by the students of the respective colleges
 
  
  
 
 
  
 Before the performance started, Neelansh Mittra, th vice-president of Shunya, addressed the crowd and said that Hurdang is special to the team because the society this year is celebrating freedom of speech and expression. "This year, Hurdang celebrates freedom of speech and expression. It is our constitutional right which enables us to speak our minds without fear. We are delighted to have the theatre society of SGTB Khalsa College with us today. Due to the present political environment in  , The Trump Card was not allowed to perform at Mukhatib. It’s a very proud moment for us to have them here and perform at Hurdang," he said.
 
  
  In one of the scenes, the theatre society of SGTB Khalsa College put fingers on their mouths to recall their silencing at Mukhatib (BCCL/ Samik Sen)
 
  The play, which comments on the current political situation in the country, showed how nationalism is the answer to every problem. During one of the scenes, while looking for 'deshbhakti', one of the actors stopped and said, "Kya aa gaye woh log jinhe humare play se dikkat hai? Bas yahi toh chahte hain ki chup ho jao, sawal mat karo, ab toh authorities ko bhi humare play se dikkat hone lagi hai." And then the other members of the society put their finger on their mouth to represent their silencing at Mukhatib.
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 Shunya presented two of its annual stage performances, Class Enemy and Evam Indrajit. Since it was the last public performance by the society members, the auditorium was packed with supporters. Shubham Vaish, the president of the society, told us, "Everyone appreciated our performance. Class Enemy highlights the lives of six college students who lock themselves in a classroom. As they wait for a teacher, they start teaching each other and give insights on their social standing." Evam Indrajit talks about the monotony of one's life. "It presents how we all live the same lives. The question is – how do you manage to break the monotony, how do you wish to have a life which is not the same as others," added Shubham.
 
  
  Since it was the last public performance by the current members of Shunya, it was a full house
 
 
  
  Members of Shunya during the play Evam Indrajit. In this scene, four friends talk about the same things all through a week
 
 
  
  Shubham Vaish (extreme right), teaches his five friends during the play Class Enemy by Shunya, the dramatics society of Ramjas College
 
 
