PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: NCP leader   has urged the state government to conduct a thorough inquiry into the allegations of irregularities and corruption in development projects implemented by the   Municipal Corporation.

 He also criticised the Union and state governments for not fulfilling their electoral promises in the past two years.
 
 Addressing a public gathering while inaugurating development projects in Sangvi on Tuesday, he said, “I am not here to support the wrongs committed by my party workers or corporators. If the opponents have proof, they must submit it. They are using Goebbels propaganda, in which people are made to believe in the allegations if they are made repeatedly.”
 
 Office bearers of the Pimpri Chinchwad unit of BJP and its local leaders in the run-up to the 2017 municipal elections have started a series of allegations of corruption in various civic projects by the ruling NCP which has started a war of words between the two parties.
 
 Pawar made a scathing attack on the Union government and Prime Minister Narendra Modi for their alleged failure in implementing the demonetisation decision and failing to fulfil the promise of normalising the situation in the country in 50 days after the move. He pointed out that only BJP is supporting the demonetisation while other political parties like SP, BSP, Congress and others are criticising it. Even BJP ally, Chandrababu Naidu of the  , has criticised the decision. He also criticised Modi for not fulfilling the electoral promise of ‘Achhe Din’ after coming to power and for belittling the opposition.
 
 Criticising the state government, Pawar said, “The state government has not abolished penalty on unauthorised constructions, nor has it taken a decision about regularising them.”
 
 Several development projects estimated to cost Rs 53 crore were approved by the PCMC standing committee before the election code of conduct is enforced. Around 30 short notice proposals for new development projects and diversion of funds for some civic projects were approved.
 
 PCMC standing committee chairman Dabbu Aswani said, “There were 215 proposals on the agenda of the meeting, out of which the committee kept 20 proposals pending and approved the remaining proposals.”
 
 One of the proposals included construction of a subway at the College of Military Engineering(CME) chowk in Dapodi on the Pune-Mumbai highway at a cost of Rs 8.23 crore was approved. Another proposal was approved for the tallest flag pole at Bhakti Shakti garden in Nigdi at a cost of Rs 3.16 crore where the Indian tricolour will be unfurled.
 
 
