MUMBAI: Those who believe that the past is always present are in for a treat. Long before `globalization' became a tired buzzword, India has had dialogues with the world. Who knew, for example, that Dutch master   had sketched a portrait of the Mughal Emperor Jehangir; or that, in 1515 CE, Albrecht Durer created a stunning woodcut print of an Indian rhinoceros, based only on travelers' reports, long before   obliterated imagination.
 
 These incredible exhibits are going to be a part of an iconic and vast exhibition titled India and the World: A His tory in Nine Stories, which will open at Mumbai's Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya (CSMVS) later this year, and then travel to Delhi's National Museum. The exhibition has been inspired by A History of the World in 100 Objects, a book and radio series by former British Museum director  . It brings together collections from the British Museum in London, National Museum in Delhi and CSMVS in Mumbai as well as several other museums.
  
 “The exhibition will select nine important historical moments of India to explore what was happening across the globe," says  , head of CSMVS. “The unique aspect of this project is that the starting point for each section will be what was happening in India in a particular timeframe."
  
 Visitors will begin in the gallery called Shared Boundaries, which displays stone tools at a time when political boundaries had scarcely been formed. They will then journey through seven major eras divided chronologically as First Cities (Harappa, Mohenjodaro, Egypt, Ur, Babylon, etc.), Empire, Faith and Society, Picturing the Divine, Indian Ocean Trade, Court Culture, Shared Worlds (globalization). The exhibition will end with a dream-like interpretation of history-Time Unbound, leaving the visitor contemplating the interconnected nature of the world we inherit.
  
 Planned to coincide with 70 years of Indian Independence, the exhibition presents small groups of objects from India and around the world.  , director of the British Museum, said it would the British Museum, said it would establish a dialogue between ob jects, cultures, institutions and the public to provide a new and rich perspective on moments in Indian history.
  
 “The wider, global context of these moments will be suggested by objects from the British Museum including a head of Emperor Hadrian, one of the most fa mous Roman emperors; one of the earliest hand axes found in Africa that speaks to our shared beginnings; whilst the contemporary Throne of Weapons from Mozambique comments on globalization and empire, but is ultimately a symbol of reconciliation and peace," added Fischer.
  
 Like Durer, who drew an animal he had never seen, these objects seek to help build images of a world in the past, or far away , which can only help to get a better understanding of where we all come from.
  
 
