
 In the '80s, when Arun Govil became a god for every household for his portrayal of Lord Ram in  's ' ', actor  , who played   in the show, was no less than a hero either. As per reports, the actor's village even observed a day of mourning when the episode of Ravan vadh was aired. Over the years, the portrayal of Ravan in TV shows, plays and Ramlilas might have changed, but the Dashanan is still the highlight of the story. Actors who played Ravan have worked hard to live up to the expectations of the audience, which now prefers Ravan with six-pack abs and a chiselled body, instead of a pot belly. They add that they have had to work on not just building a muscular body, but also read up on Ravan to bring depth and intensity in their work.
 
  
  
 Karthik Jayaram as Ravan in 'Siya Ke Ram'
 
  
  
 
 
 Puneet Issar has been playing the role of Ravan in the play Ravan Ki Ramayan for the last two years. And in these two years, the actor has not missed a single gym session, because to play Ravan, one needs to maintain a certain level of fitness. "To play someone known for his physical strength, you need a great amount of energy and stamina. I do weight training for two-three hours and run 10km each day," says Puneet. 
 
  
  Puneet Issar
 
 Apart from maintaining physical fitness, Puneet says that it is mentally draining to play a character like Ravan. "Ravan, in the modern time, isn’t seen as evil. You have to portray him as a very intelligent man. I played Ravan in a Telugu series, Bhagavatam, and it was then that I understood Ravan as a human being, what went on in his mind. The modern Ravan has to have that overpowering persona on stage, and at the same time, present himself as someone people can relate to," says Puneet. He believes that after Ramanand Sagar’s Ramayan, there has hardly been any show where Ravan has left a mark. "Ravan is still an unexplored character on screen, and not much has been done with his character on TV so far," he adds.
 
 
 Aarya Babbar, who played Ravan in Sankat Mochan Mahabali Hanumaan, feels he is the most ‘relatable and human’ character in Indian mythology, and it was a task to present him as an intelligent man while focusing on his evil side. "When I started preparing for the role, I read a lot about him and realised that contrary to popular opinion, Ravan was not a bad person. In fact, he was quite perfect – a great warrior and a loving husband and brother. The only wrong he did in his life was disrespect a woman, which led to his downfall. I researched for two-three months, and one thing that set him apart was his attitude and body language, so I worked on that," says Aarya, who had to modify his act a bit after gauging audience response.
 
  
  Arya Babbar
 
 "I wanted to present him as a mature character, and break the perception that he was a demon. But I think the audience, especially in north India, wants to see him as an evil person, who would walk and scream in a certain way. So I had to bring some changes in my acting and be a bit more dramatic," says Aarya. Adding that Arvind Trivedi’s portrayal of Ravan remains his favourite, the actor says, "He left such an impression that till today, that’s the first thing that comes to mind when we talk about Ravan. I would have also loved to see Amrish Puri play the role of Ravan."
 
  
  Arvind Trivedi’s iconic portrayal of Ravan in Ramanand Sagar's 'Ramayan'
 
 
 "When I was offered the role of Ravan, I thought, I am good looking and have been a model, why would they want me to play a demon?” says Tarun Khanna, who played Ravan in Devon Ke Dev… Mahadev. After doing a lot of research on the character, Tarun says that he realised that "Ravan was a handsome man with great skills and intelligence. I also learnt that he was a very artistic and thought that I should focus on that, rather than showing him in the same light as he has been shown in the past. Thankfully, I didn’t need to work too much on my body, and focussed on bringing out the depth of the character. Playing Ravan has made me more intense as an actor."
 
  
  Tarun Khanna
 
 Tarun adds, "The audience today loves to see Ravan as a handsome man, who had some negative traits. I think I was one hot and handsome Ravan on the small screen and that is why the audience loved me in that role."
 
 
 After doing 13 movies as a villain down south, the one negative character that Karthik Jayaram was looking forward to playing was Ravan. "He is the only villain who could be as powerful and good looking as the hero on screen. I would prefer to play Ravan over Ram anyday as he has more depth to his character," he says. 
 
  
  Karthik Jayaram
 
 The actor, who played Ravan in 'Siya Ke Ram', says that he was the first Ravan on screen with a beard. "When I was finalised to play the part, I had a beard, and the makers wanted me to continue with that look. I wanted to be a good-looking Ravan. I had put on around 10-15 kg to get a muscular body and look like a warrior," says Karthik, and adds that the role of Ravan has been the best in his career so far. "To play Ravan, you have to not just work on your body, but your expressions also have to reflect what is going on in his mind. It was surely one of the most difficult characters I played," he says.
 
 
 Mukesh Rishi, who played Ravan in a Delhi Ramlila this year, says that playing a larger-than-life character like Ravan would be an aspiration for any actor. "I was clear that the persona should not only be impressive, but also evoke curiosity and fear among people," says the actor, who worked on voice modulation to set himself apart from other actors who have been playing Ravan. 
 
 
  
  Mukesh Ri
 shi as Ravan
 
 "When you are playing Ravan, two things that your audience is always excited to see are Ravan ki hansi and Ravan ki moochhein. The moustaches were taken care of by the costume designer, but I came up with my own style of laughing," he says. 
 
 About his favourite onscreen Ravan, Mukesh says while no actor comes to his mind, he always thought that "Kader Khan could have been a brilliant Ravan."
 
 
 
