NEW DELHI: A five-year-old girl who mysteriously went missing from a weekly market near her house in southwest Delhi’s   29 days ago was finally traced by the   using a unique technique. Apart from clues received from   footages, cops tracked the GPS of the autorickshaw in which she was taken with the help of a website.

 The girl had gone to the market with her sister wearing just a pair of shorts. Her sister asked her to return to the house to wear a top, but she never reached there. The girl was stopped midway by four women and an autorickshaw driver, Prem Kumar, who forced her inside the vehicle and sped off.
 
 After her parents lodged a complaint at 11pm on April 20, a team led by SHO Kusum Pal and head constable Harbir Singh started a manhunt for the child.
 
 The abduction was captured by a CCTV camera installed outside the Hanuman Temple near the market, but it was not clear enough to get the auto’s number. The cops soon found another CCTV footage in which the girl was seen walking behind the kidnappers.
 
 The first footage was taken to a photo lab where the two middle digits “X37X” could be recognised. The cops found over 300 autos with 37 in the middle of their numberplates. Pal and his team then went to Burari transport authority and came to know that they could scan the GPS location of all vehicles on the website autotrac.com after entering the registration number and chassis number.
 
 On the 26th day of investigations, the GPS location of an auto was found to be in Mohan Garden on April 17 at 9pm, the same time the girl went missing. “We located the vehicle’s owner and he told us that he had rented the vehicle to Kumar, a resident of Madangir, around 25km away from where the girl was kidnapped,” said a senior police officer.
 
 Kumar was nabbed two days later, on Friday evening. The girl was found at the house of the four women in the same locality, but they had fled. He told the cops that the women had paid him Rs 1,000 for five hours. He had started working with them four months ago. Since then they had committed many robberies and snatchings. The women had kidnapped girls aged between three and seven to use them as a shield while committing crimes.
 
 Cops suspect the women may have kidnapped the girl to start a begging racket. “We have identified the women and will nab them soon,” said DCP (southwest) Surender Kumar. A case under IPC Section 363 (kidnapping) and POCSO Act has been registered against the accused.
 
