VEIN PUI (TARN TARAN): The mortal remains of martyr naib subedar   were consigned to flames with full military honour at his native village here on Tuesday but not before the family of martyr forcing their way to open the coffin to have last glimpse of the man who became a victim of the neighbouring country's brutality.

 Forty-two- year old Singh, along with  's 200th Battalion's head constable Prem Sagar, was beheaded by Pakistan's Border Action Team comprising of militants and Pakistan army regulars atin Krishna Ghati in   district of Jammu and Kashmir on Monday morning.
 
 Singh's body arrived here in a chopper and was taken to his house in a tricolour wrapped coffin. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Both the army officials and local administration were reluctant in showing Singh's mutilated body to his relatives which evoked sharp criticism and opposition from Singh's family members and villagers which also delayed the cremation.
 
 "I will not let the cremation take place unless I see my husband's body," cried widow Paramjit Kaur and soon after, the rest of the family members including Singh's brothers and parents gathered and forcibly opened the coffin despite being prevented by accompanying army and local administrative officials.
 
 They (family members and other relatives) burst into tears when they saw mutilated body of Singh and raised slogans against Pakistan and only then they allowed cremation to take place. 
 
 Singh's youngest son Sahildeep Singh lit the fire to pyre.
 
 Overflowing with emotions, Kaur said she wanted Prime Minister or Chief Minister to attend her husband's funeral ceremony. 
 
 "We also want to see enemy's heads, this will be the revenge of death of my husband," she said in a fit of frenzy at the same time kept repeating that her son would take revenge of his father's death by becoming an army officer.
 
 Inconsolable mother of naib subedar Paramjit Singh said she wants the complete body of his son as she had sent him to the border to fight with enemy.
 
 Singh's daughter was heard saying, "I am proud of my father who died for the nation."
 
 Martyr's brother Ranjit Singh informed that Singh had constructed a house in the village and was to hold home warming party in next ten days time.
 
 Deputy Commissioner Tarn Taran DPS Kharbanda informed that he delivered an ex gratia amount of Rs 5 lakh and Rs 1 lakh from   to martyr's family adding that another Rs 7 lakh would be delivered to the family from state government in next few days along with a job to his wife.
 
 Leader of opposition in Punjab assembly HS Phoolka who was also present there said "Centre government should do something to prevent such incidents which are very shameful."
 
 Congress MLA's Ramanjit Singh Sikki and Dharamvir Agnihotri were among others who had arrived to pay their respect to Singh.
 
