KOLKATA: During a meeting last week, All India   Federation asked the community not to host cocktail parties during weddings. Moreover, the members were urged not to attend such cocktail parties. 

 According to the federation's social reforms committee head, JK Saraf, most Marwari receptions have cocktail parties which are against the community's culture. Thus, the request is also a part of an austerity drive and an appeal to the morality of the fellow community members, who have been spending a fortune of liquor during weddings. Saraf said such parties dilute the tradition and values of the community. The federation, established in 1935, had decided that reception parties will not have over 15 food items. "But now, weddings hosted in five star hotels have around hundred dishes to show the grandeur. This is against the Marwari culture," said Saraf.
 
 Saraf added, "Last week, a community member hosted a family member's wedding where alcohol was served on multiple ceremonies. This was unthinkable even two decades ago. Things started changing since late 90s as serving alcohol in weddings became a trend, to maintain status among the community members."
 
 Federation's former president Sitaram Sharma, who moved the proposal to ban liquor, said, the appeal to 4 lakh members seeks to bring a social reform. He said, "We want the unnecessary spendings to be avoided. We have appealed all to avoid alcohol in weddings, even if it is served."
 
 "We want to remind to our community members that marriage is a pious ceremony and alcohol has no traditional connection. The members of middle class are trying to imitate the parties thrown by the upper class by facing severe economic crisis. We don't have any legal authority, nor are we moral guardians, but we are appealing our members to preserve our values."
 
 However, Rajendra Khandelwal, who recently hosted a   during his son Ravindra's wedding at Nicco Park, does not agree with the federation and believes vies should change with time. He said, "Individuals should have their own freedom and have the liberty to serve alcohol at their parties. I cannot accept the federations' hypocritical approach."
 
 
