NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal took to Twitter on Tuesday to hit out at the Centre for allegedly holding back files pertaining to the appointment of two ministers in his cabinet. “Your enmity is with us, don't take revenge from the people of Delhi,“ he tweeted.

  
  
 
 Deputy CM   called a press conference wherein he sought to know “why the Constitution was being violated and policy paralysis created in Delhi?“ He said that at a time when there was water crisis in the city, the delay in appointment of ministers was affecting work. Later in the day , MHA sources said the file was under process and may be cleared by Wednesday.
 
 After   was sacked from the cabinet, Kejriwal had decided to appoint Najafgarh MLA Kailash Gahlot and Seemapuri MLA Rajendra Gautam as ministers. Mishra held the portfolios of water, tourism, art and culture.
 
 Before him, AAP MLA   was sacked from the cabinet after an objectionable video allegedly involving him emerged last August.
 
 “Centre is sitting on the file for appointing two ministers for 10 days. Many works are stuck in Delhi Government,“ Kejriwal tweeted.
 
 Sisodia claimed the Delhi government had sent the file on May 6 to the LG's office.“After that it came back for some technical changes, which were made and the file was sent back again. Over a week has passed and I wonder why the file is not being cleared. I want to ask why Constitution is being violated and a policy paralysis is being created in Delhi,“ Sisodia asked. Meanwhile,   hit back at Sisodia for blaming the Centre for delay in the appointment of two ministers.BJP said that AAP showed no urgency to fill up the post of social welfare minister for eight months after it sacked Sandeep Kumar.
 
 “It is surprising that they are blaming the Centre for delaying the approval whereas they deliberately didn't fill up the post of social welfare minister for eight months. In less than 10 days, they are blaming Centre for the delay,“ said  , leader of the opposition in the Delhi assembly.
 
