MADURAI: The   have   seven people including the mother in connection with the sale of a of a baby boy last year for Rs 2 lakh. The   who has been in a   with the   is absconding. 

 Although the sale took place a few months after the child was born in December 2015, police have made the arrests only now based on a secret information received by them. The child, now one-and-a-half years old, has been shifted to a home in the city. 
 
 The parents of the baby were identified as Pavithra, 24, from JJ Nagar in Madakulam and Alageswaran. The latter had married twice and had three children before moving in with Pavithra. The couple entered into a relationship but did not want to beget a child. However, Pavithra became pregnant and they failed to go for abortion within the legally permitted time. With no option left, the couple waited until the child was born. 
 
 Police said Pavithra gave birth to a baby boy towards the end of 2015. As the couple desperately looked for a way to discard the child, they got in touch with S Janaki, 52, and her daughter Sumathi, 31, both hailing from Pannaipatti village near Usilampatti. The duo, with the help of S Ariyammal, 65, came in contact with a childless couple, R Sankaranarayanan and S Veerammal of Kathirvel Nagar in Tuticorin. A differently-abled couple, they were planning to go for adoption when they came to know about the child. They paid Rs 2 lakh which was shared among all the people involved. 
 
 Police have arrested Pavithra and the couple who bought the baby besides the mother-daughter duo and Ariyammal who acted as brokers. Apart from the six, one M Balamurugan, 36, from Tuticorin who helped the differently-abled couple was also arrested. 
 
 Police said they were looking for Alageswaran who had gone underground ever since they began the investigation. Since the mother and the couple who kept the baby were arrested and imprisoned, the child rescued from them was sent to a home run by Grace Kennett Foundation in the city. 
 
 A similar gang was busted last year in Madurai and six persons including a woman doctor arrested in the case. There has been a couple of child-lifting incidents too reported in Madurai in the last few years. While a soothsayer was arrested and the child rescued in one of the cases, the child could not be traced in another incident which took place at the Government Rajaji Hospital.
 
 
