THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government will launch a   of  , a first in the country, governor   announced here on Thursday. The registry, comprising identification details of sex offenders, will be kept in the public domain, he said in his address on the opening day of the assembly’s budget session.

 Besides, the government will set up all-women police stations at the taluk level, set up a comprehensive relief fund for victims of sex crimes and make it mandatory that a woman police officer visit each panchayat on date and time announced in advance.
 
 Opposition members had brought banners highlighting women safety to the assembly on Thursday as the session came against the backdrop of the abduction and rape of an actor in Kochi last week.
 
 “The government will brook no travesty to their (women’s) dignity and shall not pardon any action from anyone that is calculated to be an affront to women,” the governor said in his two-and-a-half-hour address. "Though the Nirbhaya cell under the department of social justice has been functioning commendably in the state, Kerala lacked a comprehensive victim relief fund…The government will set up a comprehensive victim relief fund to provide interim relief for victims of sex crimes.”
 
 Sathasivam said a separate department was being created for women while the government was committed to increasing the women’s share in police force by 15%.
 
 The address, which also saw the governor criticizing the demonetisation of high-value currencies and its impact on state’s revenue, listed out a host of projects in various sectors. It elaborated on four missions –– Haritha Keralam, Aardhram, Comprehensive Public Education Rejuvenation and Total Housing.
 
 “The focus will be on the poorest of the poor, the most vulnerable sections of society including widows, the aged, terminally-ill and tribal population,” he said. “A scheme will be introduced at the district level for permanent employment to differently-abled citizens. It will be extended to the taluk level over the next four years.”
 
 A disabilities research and guidance cell, wider use of ramps and braille signs, Swavlamban insurance scheme for BPL persons with disabilities, Sayam Prabha project for the elderly, rehabilitation centres for destitute, own building for anganwadis and new girls’ homes in various districts are among other projects envisaged under the department of social justice.
 
