HYDERABAD: For decades,   have pointed out low representation of those belonging to the  , especially Muslims, in civil services. But now, there seems to be a glimmer of hope. Now, many institutions have revamped existing centre or begun training students from class 7.

 According to experts, the   issued over 10 years ago had noted the glaring lack of adequate   -as low as around 3% -in civil services.
 
 As a result of which, centres across the country were set up in five universities. These would coach students so as to facilitate their entry into All India Services. While four were in North India, one is in the South.
 
 Case in point: the C S E Coa ching Academy at the Maulana Azad National University . Established in 2009, the varsity's civil services coaching academy could not produce a single success story . Taking note of this fact, the university management went ahead with a complete overhaul of the teaching methods, technology and faculty .
 
 The varsity's centre now has on board Prof Amirullah Khan, who is a former bureaucrat, and also consultant to the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.Further, former top cop A K Khan, now advisor to the government on minorities welfa re, has also been roped in.
 
 “Previously , we used to rece ive around 500 applications.Now we have as many as 6,000 applications. The jump in numbers is encouraging,“ says Prof Khan, who was also on the PostSachar Evaluation Committee.As it turns out, a campaign on social media to spread awareness played a major role in bringing in the massive number of applications. The centre has had talks from important civil servants. It is now targeting the June 2018 prelims for its students.
 
 While that is the case with government-run institutions, privately managed organisations are adopting a new novel method of introducing their students to the civil services. The M S Education Academy has embarked upon a OlympIAS programme in which students, who are in class VII, are being given exposure to civil services.
 
