SHIMLA: In 2012   Congress came to power on the promise of giving   to educated youth, now ahead of coming assembly election Transport Minister G S Bali has once again intensified efforts to woo the unemployed youth and women by announcing to hold a conclave to raise issues confronting them.

 On completion of four years of Congress government in state, Bali had raised the issue of giving unemployment allowance to educated youth as per the promise made in the election manifesto, but Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh had said that government is already giving skill development allowance and it is not possible for any government to give unemployment allowance.
 
 Politics on the issue of giving unemployment allowance is all set to intensify in coming days as Bali feels that state government should give the same to plus and graduate youth having family income of less than Rs 2 lakh per annum as per the poll promise.
 
 He said that if a detailed survey is carried then number of eligible unemployed youth would come around one lakh. As Virbhadra Singh had claimed that government is giving skill development allowance, Bali said giving unemployment allowance and skill development allowance are two separate issues.
 
 He said that 2012 election manifesto of Congress had separate mentions about giving unemployment allowance and skill development allowance. Right before 2012 assembly election, Bali had took out a foot march on the unemployment issue.
 
 Bali has on Thursday announced to organize district level conclave by month at Nagrota in Kangra district followed by another state level conclave at Dharamshala by the end of March. He said of the total population of state around 13% are unemployed which comes around 8.9 lakh.
 
 He said that of the total unemployed around 67816 are post graduate, 1.17 lakh are graduate, 6.5 lakh matriculates and plus two pass and 62000 are under-matric.
 
 Like Bali, opposition BJP too is raising the issue of unemployed youth and giving unemployment allowance to them. BJP is also accusing the Congress of coming to power by making false promise to educated youth as after coming to power state government failed to fulfill its poll promise.
 
