Whether it’s paucity of original content or the temptation to gain success easily by simply borrowing the formulae of a hit film; TV shows have always been inspired by   films. Whatever the case, currently, there are at least eight fiction shows, which owe their plots to Hindi movies. BT takes a look...

 
 
 How: Not just the story, even the poster of this soap has been inspired by the Hindi movie, which featured Ayushmann Khurrana and Bhumi Pednekar. It shows the lead actor (Prince Narula) carrying his overweight wife (Rytasha Rathore) on his shoulders. The plot revolves around an obese woman who dreams of marrying someone who sees her beyond her physical beauty.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 How: Again, the poster of the show has been inspired by the film. The show is based on surrogacy and the complications it causes between a married couple.   and   enact the roles played by   and Rani Mukerji in the film. Meanwhile, Jasmine Bhasin has been roped in to essay Preity Zinta’s character of a surrogate mother. 
 
 
 
 How: “The show takes off from where Zakhm ended, making the viewers ask for more,” says Mahesh Bhatt, the director of the film. Like the movie, the show too revolves around a child born out of wedlock, live-in relationships and a woman fighting for her identity.
 
 
 
 How: The show has borrowed the premise of the Bollywood hit. Like Ganga (Mahima Choudhary) chooses Arjun (Shah Rukh Khan) in the film, Naina (Drashti Dhami), who is supposed to marry a rich guy, settles for an ordinary lad played by  .
 
 
 
 How: Currently, the historical show revolves around the journey of the young Peshwa and his skills as a warrior. However, we won’t be surprised if, post a time leap, the show slowly changes track to focus on his love story with Mastani.
 
 
 
 How: The show falls in the horror-thriller genre and the promos remind you of the yesteryear blockbuster film Woh Kaun Thi which had Manoj Kumar and Sadhna in the lead roles. Like the film, the basic plot of the show is also similar — the lead actress loses her boyfriend and he keeps haunting her after his death, just like Sadhna continued to haunt Manoj Kumar in the film. 
 
 
 
 How: The show revolves around a madly-in-love couple who can’t be together because the father wants his daughter to marry an educated, well-settled guy from a good social background. Here too, like Ajay Devgn in Hum Dil De... Shashank Vyas plays an understanding husband, who helps his wife cope with her heartache. 
 
 
 
 How: The premise and the plot of the show is quite similar to that of the film. While the show revolves around a man who turns into a monster and attacks brides, the film had the lead actor turning into a brahmarakshas after his bride deceives him.
 
  
  
 
 
