LUDHIANA: It was nothing less than a horror show for   when a stray dog was found carrying a   on Saturday.

 Adding to their anxiety, the skeletal remains were later traced from a ruined house on a  , which had been lying abandoned for the past many years.
 
 The dog with the human skull was first noticed by some workers of a factory.
 
 As soon as the news spread in the village, residents were scared a bit. Gathering courage later, they went searching for the remaining parts of skeleton. Noticing some foul smell near the plot, villagers detected the skeleton and sounded the police.
 
 The skeleton is of a man, said police.
 
 Additional deputy commissioner of police (III)   said it seems that the body was lying there for a long time. The body had decomposed completely and only clothes were left on the skeleton. The police have found nothing else from near the body. Police will investigate the case with the help of clothes.
 
 Clothes included black shirt, denim trouser and blue shoes. Police said it seems the dog had eaten some body parts.
 
 The ADCP said so far nothing can be said whether it is a murder or natural death.
 
 The skeletal remains will be first inspected by a board of doctors at the civil hospital in Ludhiana, following which his DNA and viscera samples would be sent to Government Rajindra Hospital to get further clues about the person.
 
 Police said DNA or viscera report generally takes months.
 
 BTech student’s body found
 
 Ludhiana: The Dehlon police found the body of a 21-year-old BTech student from a canal in Sudhar area. The deceased has been identified as Shubham Kumar of Kabeer Nagar.
 
 Shubham had gone for outing in Daloya village with his two friends on Thursday where they took plunge in the canal and Shubham drowned.
 
 Inspector Harjinder Singh, SHO, Dehlon police station, said his friends tried to rescue him but failed. They informed police immediately. Divers were pressed into service, but they could not locate the body. Someone saw a body floating in canal and informed police. 
 
