AHMEDABAD/SURAT/VADODARA: For dry Gujarat, the apex court order to shut down liquor vendors within 500 metres of state and national highways has come as a double whammy. Twelve of the total 52 licensed liquor shops have been issued closure notices and shut shop with immediate effect from April 1. 

 In financial capital Ahmedabad, which has 12 permitted liquor shops, three top hotels, namely The Grand Bhagwati, Ramada and Novotel Ahmedabad, have been asked to shut liquor outlets. 
 
 B Kumar, director, prohibition and excise told TOI, “Following the   order, we have issued closure notices to around 12 liquor shops located within 500 metres of state and national highways.”
 
 “We have instructed our regional offices and roads and buildings department to verify locations of all hotels that have licensed liquor shops to ensure all located within 500 metres of highways are shut down.”
 
 “Any hotel violating the order will have to face legal action,” Kumar added.
 
 Diamond city, Surat, has five hotels with licensed liquor shops, out of which one-- The Grand Bhagwati (TGB) in Magdalla, falls within the 500 metres of national highway. In Bharuch, out of four liquor shops, that in   has been issued closure notice. 
 
 In Vadodara and Rajkot, which have seven and four liquor shops respectively, none have been reported to fall within the prohibited distance from the highways. 
 
 It needs mention that total sales of alcohol in licensed liquor shops averages around Rs 200 crore annually. In 2015, state liquor shops had recorded sales of Rs 196.49 crore. In 2016, sales worth 124.31 crore was recorded till July. 
 
 Hotel owners have threatened to move SC against the closure of liquor shops in Gujarat. They are crying foul saying the SC ban is unjust especially when Gujarat has a strict prohibition policy in force and liquor shops cater to only licensed liquor permit holders who either have health permits or visitor's permit to consume alcohol in the state.
 
 “In dry Gujarat, we sell liquor only to those who have a health permit or visitor's permit. If the government compels us to shut shop, we will move the Supreme Court as the order is unjust,” said Narendra Somani, president of the Hotels and Restaurant Association-Gujarat. 
 
 “The issue is irrelevant and unjust for Gujarat where prohibition is already in force and permit holders are allowed to drink only indoors,” said Tejus Jose, general manager of Novetel, member of the   and Restaurant Associations of India. “On Saturday, we were asked to keep the liquor shop shut and we’ll have to see how it goes in the days to come.” he said.
 
 
