PANAJI: When the Regional Plan (RP) 2011 was released, Baga hill became the face of the destruction the plan was likely to wreak all over Goa. Now, a few consider an outline development plan ( ) for Baga as the first installment for it.

 The land-use map of the controversial RP 2011 showed massive development proposals on the hills of Baga and Betim. Alarmed activists superimposed pictures of both hillsminus their green crownswith a carpet of concrete blocks and buildings. 
 
 The ‘before-and-after’ pictures shocked many and galvanized the public to get RP 2011which aimed at a 50% increase in settlement area scrapped. Baga was saved.
 
 But, in November last year, the   (NGPDA) issued a draft ODP for Baga the tiny hill at the mouth of an equally tiny river even as other ODPs evoked public outcry. The plans for Margao and Panaji were among those opposed for more high-rise buildings in congested areas. 
 
 While Baga’s ODP is the latest one to be released, the government notified a planning area for the 5km radius of   in December. With every new ODP showing extensive new colours, allowing more settlement and commercial areas, often without proper accompanying regulations, activists question the PDAs’ partisan role and allege that these bodies draw up and push plans without much transparency.
 
 “All ODPs are more of a money-spinner for the government,” alleges United Goans Foundation (UGF) president, Aashish Kamat. A few days after the Margao-based NGO challenged the Margao ODP in the high court of Bombay at Goa, former CM Digambar Kamat said the Congress would scrap PDAs if it came to power.
 
 “No PDA has prepared a comprehensive development plan (CDP) as required. All these ODPs are dubious and illegal,” Kamat alleges.
 
 The town and country planning (TCP) department TCP had directed all PDAs that were formed in the early 1980s to prepare CDPs, as required under Section 31, in a directive issued on May 18, 2010. But almost seven years later, the PDAs are only interested in revisiting the ODPs, activists claim.
 
 Chief town planner S Puttaraju, confirmed the directive on preparation of CDPs. “The government had directed all PDAs to prepare CDPs, but none have taken it up,” he said. He denied that ODPs are illegal, and conceded that PDAs avoid proceeding to the second stage of CDPs.
 
 The PDA’s extensive jurisdiction in the past had been curtailed after the Goa Panchayati Raj Act, 1994, came into force. “Villages in Tiswadi and Mormugao had been removed from the PDA’s jurisdiction,” sources say, adding that the directorate of panchayats has instructed local self-governing bodies to prepare five-years-plans to avail of central funds under  .
 
 “We are carrying on with old systems that dictate a top-down approach, while world wisdom is moving towards planning with a bottom-up approach, starting with people in villages, which is actually the strength and identity of Goa,” GBA secretary  , says . 
 
