He is credited for taking Tamil cinema out of the studios and into the real world. And though he is predominantly known for films that hold a mirror to life in the villages,   has, over his four-decade-old career, come up with films that are rich and varied in subject and treatment. And he says he has no plans of stopping. In a conversation with Chennai Times, the ace   looks back on his early days, and opens up about his upcoming directorial and acting projects, the need for film education, and competing with contemporary filmmakers. Excerpts:

 
 
 I saw Mother India when I was in my ninth standard. I saw it in Hindi, a language I was unfamiliar with. But its village backdrop was one that I was familiar with. So, even though the family in the film lived in north India, I could relate to it. It was so fantastic that I couldn’t sleep after going home. I don’t think any village-set film has managed to surpass its achievement till date. Mother India set off a dream of me wanting to tell the life around me. The inspiration I derived from it is what drives every film of mine.
 
 
 
 I do not have the thrill that I had earlier. Cinema felt like heaven to me then. It would take 15 days for me to check out a shot that I had taken. Today, I can see it in real-time on the monitor and even edit within seconds. I miss the thrill of waiting to see how a shot has come out. Even recording music felt like a tiruvizha, with almost a hundred musicians gathering and playing in a recording theatre. With monitors and digital technology, everything has become less exciting. However, the passion that I have for cinema still remains. How do I assert myself in this digital world? That is what is a challenge for me, today. An artiste who doesn’t fight against time simply dies. The current crop of filmmakers has so much exposure and the world has shrunken to the size of their palms. I have to compete against them; or else, I am a dead man. I am still fighting because I want to survive. I want to make people look in awe and say, ‘Wow, he is still making such great films.’
 
 
 
 I came from a farming family in a small village in Madurai with no academic qualifications, driven only by an attraction towards cinema. Like a wild plant, I managed to grow on my own. But not everyone can be a Bharathirajaa or a Mani Ratnam. Even today, I face difficulties. I might have earned a name for my realistic films, but academically, I am ill-equipped. I cannot take a class to a student in another part of the world by showing my films and explaining what I have done. Today, a filmmaker needs film education if he hopes to take his films across the world.
 
 
 
 I’m directing three films now. One is an untitled film, that happens on November 8, the night Modi announced demonetisation. I have shot for 15-20 days and I have left a break. The other film is a love story, exploring what love is. Does love get any different when you become mature? In Mudhal Mariyadhai, I explored this against a village backdrop. This one is contemporary and involves an Indian writer living in London. He meets a girl who is learning literature there and they travel together. Their journey is my story.
 
 
 
 Let’s talk about Kuttra Parambarai at the right time. Adhuvarai kutramave irukkatum.
 
 
 
 I’m acting in two films — one is Kurangu Bommai, and the other is Padai Veeran. You will see a different Bharathirajaa in both these films. I came into this industry to become a star. But in those days, you needed a doll-like face to be a hero. Handsome men like Gemini Ganesan and AVM Rajan were heroes then. With my rugged features, I did not stand a chance. Because I had lost, I was seething in anger and decided that I would make a star out of everyone. A character need not be beautiful. It is to prove this and break the industry’s stereotype that I showed a handsome Kamal Haasan in an ugly way in 16 Vayathinile. I did act, as a  , in Kallukkul Eeram after that, but it was an immature performance. Now, when I’m getting acting offers, I feel that I should prove myself as an actor.
 
 
 
 I have to feel that I’m suited to that film. With Theri, I was not convinced. That’s why I said no. I was offered Rs 1 crore, but as an artiste, I couldn’t accept it. The crudity in the character put me off. I like violence to be shown in a subtle manner; there should be a beauty to how you film it. I’m a director, a storyteller. When I turn into an actor, I want to do it with dignity.
 
 
 
 Actually, I haven’t realised many of those. Recently, I saw the Kannada film Thithi and I’m still thinking of how I can run alongside such a filmmaker. I feel I have become polluted as a filmmaker. I have found success, money and fame, and what I’m doing today feels like an effort to preserve that status quo. I would have done something like Thithi if I had felt I had nothing to lose. I did 16 Vayathinile that way. If you were to ask me to make that film now, I would be plagued with doubts. I want to cast aside such doubts and do a film. I think my film on demonetisation will be such an attempt, even if it doesn’t match up to Thithi.
 
 
 
 None. But there are films that I had made with a lot of effort, like Kadhal Oviyam, which didn’t reach the audience, and I still regret their failure. I love that film. The films that I enjoyed making were Kadhal Oviyam, Nadodi Thendral and Taj Mahal. But, for some reasons, they didn’t do well. I keep asking myself if I had messed up and why people did not get them. I feel the same way even with  . To me, it had one of my best screenplays, but people did not accept it. Even today, when I watch it, I love it.
 
 
 
 No, age isn’t a restriction for a good artiste. The day the limelight around me shrinks is the day I am dead as an artiste. You are interviewing me now, which means I’m still living and relevant.
 
 
 
 I love the changes that have taken place. And I like all the youngsters who are making films. Directors like Vetri Maaran and Ram — I am just naming a couple of them though there are so many more I admire — are making films that are as good as the French greats. The only thing is that I find many of the films technically extraordinary, but lacking in soul and cultural identity. The yesteryear films had more heart; the present ones have more brain. 
 
 
 
 I love it. The lessons that I learnt then are different from what these boys are learning. They have better exposure than myself, so when someone in that age tells me something, I should accept it. We are journeying together, so we should respect each other. If you think that you are a great person, then you are destroying yourself. Everyone might say Bharathirajaa is great, but I know who I am. I never think that I’m great. As long as man didn’t step foot on the moon, it seemed wonderful. But once we brought back soil from there, our awe of the moon diminished. Similarly, people are imagining who I am by getting influenced by my works. Nobody is great and nobody is less. We compare ourselves with our contemporary world and think we have achieved a lot. Have we done something that is equivalent to what Valluvar did 2,000 years ago? Someone formed rules on how to speak a language! Someone found out how to make sambar! So, everyone is great and is contributing in their own way. 
 
