The spate of suicides and cases of depression in the recent past, especially among youngsters, has led to one question being repeatedly asked, ‘What’s the root cause of such untoward incidents?’ and how these grave issues need to be addressed. It all boils down to one’s mental health, say experts. According to them, the many   in the society are the main contributors to negative influences on one’s mental health, ultimately leading the sufferer into depression, aloofness and in some cases, even suicides. “Taboos are seen in what one eats to what one wears and studies. When people come out of these taboos, there’s a feeling of liberation. It is only when they are unable to shake off these taboos that they start to feel frustrated which will then negatively affect their mental health,” starts Thenndral S, who recently organised a campaign called   at  .
A counsellor by profession, Thenndral says the campaign, which was organised on last Sunday, and will be held in the upcoming ones as well, is aimed at creating awareness on mental health. “The campaigns will lead up to World Mental Health Day, which is observed every year on October 10. In this particular campaign, we had people sharing their experiences on how they broke away from different taboos in the society,” shares Thenndral. She adds that it is only when we wait for other people’s approval to do things the way we want to do in our lives, that taboos negatively impact us. “That’s why many of us don’t end up doing what we really want to do in our lives,” she says. 
 And that ends up in a lot of regrets and frustration, which can lead to a mental health problem,” adds Thenndral. Agreeing with Thenndral is trainer and psychologist, Aadarsh Ignatius. He says, “Many parents thrust things on children, which they couldn’t do during their younger days. They want to make their children engineers and doctors just because they couldn’t pursue those professions. You are made to believe that if not this, you are a big zero in life. There are many taboos in life, like societal, spiritual, personal, etc. We need to break away from all these taboos. Living on your own terms is the best way to break away from taboos. If not, you’re going to have a tough life.” 
 Sharing his experience on how he fought a near-depression state because of religious taboo, 22-year-old V Krishnamoorthy, says, “I am from an orthodox Brahmin family. The religious taboo is one thing that has been troubling me. I am forced to do religious things which I am not interested or believe in. This isn’t the case with me alone. The problem is that the older generation don’t really ask for our preference, but try to push things that they believe in. I didn’t go into the exact state of depression, but probably a state before that where you hate everything and put yourself away from people. But eventually, I came out of it because of my friends. Now, I have learnt to live with it because I don’t have any other option.” 
 According to Thenndral, people, who don’t break away from taboos are the ones who fall prey to those like the Blue Whale Game and there are no two ways about it. “Especially, today’s children don’t go out and play. I faced this issue when I came from Bangalore to Chennai. I was in Class 8 back then. In Bangalore, we girls would play with boys on the street. But when I came here and went out to play with boys, everybody in the locality came and told my mom not to send me out to play with boys. That was it and I was forced to stay at home. So, what would kids do in such circumstances? Their attention turns to things online and they end up falling prey to grave things. A few years ago, there was even a video game called Rape Game. People give in to these kind of games because of the frustration that’s generated because of all these taboos around them,” sums up Thenndral. 
 
