A 72-year-old man who helped the CBI’s   nab an   red-handed in a graft case has been running around in circles for over three years to retrieve the Rs 3.5 lakh cash he offered as a bait in the trap laid by the CBI.

 Recounting his experience, Jaisukhlal Vaghani, a former government servant who runs a business, said, “I have been striving to fight corruption for some time now. I have complained to the state and central ACB multiple times and have played instrumental roles in nabbing corrupt officers red handed.” However, since 2013, Vaghani has been having second thoughts about this.
 
 In 2013, he had received threats and demands from the   department. “In November 2013, my   was called in at the Joint Commissioner’s office where she was told that our accounts were being scrutinised and that our transactions would be deemed illegal if we didn’t pay up Rs 15 lakh. After multiple negotiations, the deal was finally struck at Rs 3.5 lakh,” Vaghani recounted.
 
 After the amount was finalised, Vaghani approached the CBI-ACB, as they are the central agency who can take action over a central government employee. “I made them hear the call recordings done by my accountant and even gave a written complaint. On December 23, a trap was laid and I had to provide the bribe money which would be marked for identification of crime. The trap was successful and the money was retrieved in the evening by the authorities,” he said.
 
 However, it has been more than three years since the incident but the Rs 3.5 lakh cash is yet to be returned to him. He said, “There are dates and dates and more dates, but the money never comes. The money is not a measly sum.”
 
 Vaghani then approached the Thane court, where the case against the joint commissioner is ongoing. “After the charge sheet was filed, I appealed for return of property under section 457 (2) of Criminal Procedure Code in 2015. The court asked the CBI to respond, the agency gave a twisted reply, but no action was initiated,” he said.
 
 Since then, the senior citizen has been making rounds of the court to get his money back. “Either the of-ficials are absent, or the court is adjourned. I haven’t yet gotten a direct hearing since the time CBI filed its response in 2015,” he said. On his last court date on April 5, he had to return empty-handed again as the judge was absent.
 
 When contacted, the spokesperson of Central Bureau of Investigation R K Gaur said, “This is highly unusual. We will, however, have to check with the local branch and only then can we respond.” The CBI Mumbai officials refused to comment.
 
 Vaghani is in the process of filing a writ petition in the High Court. “I have worked with the state ACB and I had no such issues. Why does the CBI-ACB have so many bureaucratic hurdles?” he wondered.
 
