HYDERABAD: A woman who sustained   after a rod from an under-construction metro station at Nampally fell on her, remained critical a day after the incident, although her condition stabilised slightly.

 Doctors at Apollo, Hyderguda, said Uzma Hafeez (38) was still under observation. “Today there was some movement in her limbs although she is still unconscious. Her vitals are normal and we are planning to take up an `extubation' procedure tomorrow,“ said an official communication from the hospital where she is being treated. An extubation procedure follows intubation done during the administering of general anaesthesia to a patient when readied for surgery.
 
 Uzma was travelling with her husband Abdul Hafeez from her house in Rein Bazar to her relative's place in Ameerpet around 10.20am on Saturday, when the rod fell on her head leaving her with serious head injuries.
 
 Larsen & Toubro, the contracting firm in-charge of   construction, for its part has initiated an inquiry into the 'freak accident.' Authorities at L&T HMR are hoping that Uzma will regain consciousness in the next 48 hours. Reacting to the incident, yderabad Metro Rail (HMR)   (HMR) authorities said the incident was a `very unfortunate and impossible accident'. “It is a completely freak accident.This kind of an accident cannot happen, it was impossible but it still happened,“ said HMR chief, NVS Reddy.
 
 The rod slipped and fell through a 232mm hole meant to lock in the metro viaduct with metal bars. Reddy said, “The necklock was over. The structure was completed, the 232mm hole was closed and even the parapet wall was constructed. It is possible that a worker was checking the hole but it is an impossi ble accident. We have to assume that whatever can go wrong will go wrong. While we are following all safety norms and conducting surprise checks regularly , we will have to take extra precautions now,“ said Reddy .
 
 Police said all the workers present at the site when the accident occured went missing by the time the officials reached the spot.
 
 Nampally police had registered a case under section 338 (Causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against Larsen & Toubro on Saturday.
 
