It has been two weeks since Kolkata High Court ordered the home secretary to sub mit an affidavit within a month, stating the steps the government will take to improve the fitness of city police personnel. The order was in response to a PIL filed by person, who used 30 photos he had clicked of `fat' cops across the city as the ground for his litigation. Whatever steps the home secretary outlines in his response, turning the men in uniform into models of fitness won't exactly be a cakewalk. Why? Well, we decided to check out the litigant's claim and click a few photographs in the process. And know what? The litigant is right. The city is teeming with pot-bellied cops! See for yourself.
 
 COP SPEAKS
 
 If you ask for my opinion, I have to say that I feel it's very silly to highlight the girths of Kolkata cops. One needs to understand that they're not in the army! Moreover, had they been warned at the beginning of their career to be conscious about their health, the situation could have been better. But, yes, I cannot deny the fact that the urge to stay in shape is very less among our officers. Then again, the police is not even allowed to work freely, and follow the law nowadays. I think the political parties and the government hierarchy should fist allow them to `work'. In the Police Reform Bill 1979, there was mention about a cops' physical fitness and why and how it's important. And even cops want the reforms to be implemented. Between 2006 and 2010, two cops -Prakash Singh and SK Singh -had even filed PILs asking why the reforms had not been applied to the force SONDHI MUKHERJEE, former commissioner, Kolkata Police
 
 DIETICIAN SPEAKS
 
 If you observe properly, you'll notice officers who work with the traffic department are not so portly. That's because their job keeps them on their toes all the time. But can we say that all traffic cops are fit? No.The nature of their job is to blame for that. They are on duty for 10 to 12 hours. They do not have the luxury to have food on time. Also, eating good and healthy food is often not an option, as the availability of such food is rare in many areas. Stress, too, plays a major role in creating potbellies.
 
 
 
