Kolkata: Every dog, they say, has its day. And pet   in Kolkata will soon have theirs across the city parks. Following a Delhi high court order, the Animal Welfare Board of India has issued a directive lifting restrictions on the entry of pets into parks, albeit with a few riders. 

 While pet-lovers rejoiced at the order, which they felt would let animals enjoy their right to roam freely, a section of morning-walkers felt threatened at the prospect of pets being let loose on them.
 
 “The number of people keeping dogs as pets is increasing every year. Most dog-owners live in apartments where there is no private space to exercise their dogs. The entry of dogs into parks and being exercised in them will not be restricted ... if the dogs are duly leashed and are walked by adults,” said the order. 
 
 Environment and animal rights activist   said: “We, on behalf of the NGO Public, have written to the   and   to ensure that the order is followed. All pets have the right to enter parks under the supervision of their owners. This will not endanger the security of other visitors. If they are barred in parks, pets will find it difficult to survive in the restrictive confines of apartments where they mostly live.”
 
 Lawyer and animal rights activist Meghna Banerjee agreed. “Entry of pets into parks has been a contentious issue over the last few years. Morning-walkers, especially, have been agitated about it. But the fact remains that pets do no harm to anybody visiting parks.”
 
 The order goes on to say that “all dog owners are advised to assess the nature of their dogs and voluntarily muzzle them if they feel it is required”. It also advises owners to make sure that pet poop is duly cleared from parks. “We agree that parks need to be free of dog poop. This is the rule everywhere in the world and India can’t be any different. So, pet-owners could easily be asked to collect the poop if necessary,” felt Kakkar.
 
 The order is binding on all authorities across the country, pointed out  , animal rights activist. “The Animal Welfare Board is a statutory body so its order applies to the entire country. It is a very appropriate direction. Dogs are people’s companions. If they can’t be taken for walks freely in parks then none will be able to have pets. More importantly, most of Kolkata’s parks are used for anti-social activities. They are littered and ill-maintained. Then why can’t they be thrown open to dogs and other pets?”
 
