Salem: DMK functionaries on Thursday blocked the Salem-Sankari highway after the Coimbatore rural police arrested their party working president M K Stalin, who was heading to Edappadi here to oversee the desilting work of Kacharayan lake, at Kaniyur check post. Traffic was halted on the stretch for more than three hours.

 Tension prevailed across the district as DMK cadre staged protests at various places, including Attur and Mettur, as the news about Stalin’s arrest spread. The demonstration staged at Salem collectorate turned violent as some party workers pelted stones at a government bus.
 
 Earlier, the district administration had denied permission to Stalin to visit the Kacharayan lake on Thursday. As instructed by him, DMK workers had been carrying out desilting works of the lake for over a month. Stalin was scheduled to oversee the works on Thursday.
 
 However on Tuesday, AIADMK workers and local farmers attempted to take silt from the lake using earthmovers and tractors. DMK workers clashed with them and subsequently district revenue official stopped the work for a day. But the officials on Wednesday allowed the ruling party members to take silt from the lake. Aggrieved at this, DMK functionaries staged protests across the district.
 
 Though the district administration denied him permission, Stalin announced that he would visit the lake as scheduled. And he was arrested while heading to Salem.
 
 When DMK functionaries came to know about this, they blocked Salem-Sankari highway. Police personnel, led by Salem SP P Rajan, detained and removed more than 300 party members, including East district in-charge A Raja and Umarani Selvaraj from the spot and lodged them in a nearby marriage hall. 
 
 The DMK workers, however, didn’t get into the bus and walked all the way to the marriage hall on the Salem-Coimbatore National Highway, disrupting the traffic for an hour.
 
 Meanwhile, the Central DMK wing cadre led by Salem North MLA R Rajendran staged a protest at Salem collectorate. After some party workers pelted stone at a government bus, the police detained the protesters, more than 500 of them, and lodged them in a marriage hall. Hundreds of DMK workers were also detained in Attur, Mettur and other areas in the district as they took to the street, condemning the arrest of their leader.
 
 All the detained DMK workers were released in the evening.
 
 
