LUDHIANA: A man stabbed his sister-in-law to death in front of her daughter in  , here, on Wednesday morning. 

 Sukhwinder Kaur, 42, a resident of Gagandeep Colony, was busy with her household chores when her brother-in-law, Sukhdev Singh, 50, a labourer, barged into her house and stabbed her around 10.30am. Her 11-year-old daughter, who was present in the room, pleaded Sukhdev to spare her mother but he killed Sukhwinder in front of her and fled. 
 
 On hearing the screams of the mother-daughter duo, neighbours rushed to their house. Sukhwinder succumbed to the injuries before they could take her to a hospital. The area residents saw Sukhdev running through the streets armed with the murder weapon. 
 
 Sukhwinder’s daughter told the police, “My mother was cleaning the house. The main gate was open when uncle ran into our house and stabbed her. I pleaded him not to kill my mother, but he paid no heed.” 
 
 Mohinder Singh, Sukhwinder’s husband who is a street vendor, said, “Since three years we have had strained relations with Sukhdev, who is our neighbour. He would often fight with us and many a time we had lodged police complaint against him.” 
 
 About an hour after committing the crime, Sukhdev surrendered at   with the crime weapon.
 
 Assistant commissioner of police (Sadar) Gurjeet Singh said, “Sukhdev was earlier married to Sukhwinder’s sister-in-law. She had died 15 years ago.” 
 
 Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP-III) Surinder Lamba said, “After Sukhdev’s first wife passed away, he developed relations with Sukhwinder. The two had an affair for seven years. About one-and-a-half years ago, the accused got married to the younger sister of Sukhwinder. But when she came to know about their affair, she left him. Sukhdev and Sukhwinder, however, continued to meet. Some days ago, Sukhdev started suspecting Sukhwinder of having an affair with another man. And this made him kill her.” 
 
 Besides, the divorce between Sukhdev and Sukhwinder’s sister was another reason that led to frequent set-tos betweeen the two, the ADCP added. 
 
 Ladhowal police said an FIR under   (murder) of the IPC has been registered against the accused, who has confessed to have committed the crime.
 
 
