NOIDA: The mystery as to what prompted property dealer   (45) to enter business partner Ajay Khurana’s house and kill his wife and son deepened on Thursday as the   said it was a “well-planned attack” on the family and sought a probe into the role of Jolly’s wife Meenu.

 Jolly’s business partner   (58) and his elder son Amit, who survived the April 11 attack, said on Thursday they had “minimised” their business relationship with Jolly around three years ago over “differences”. But the Khuranas refused to elaborate on the reasons for snapping ties.
 
 Initially, police suspected Jolly had attacked Ajay and his family over a business dispute. But now, other angles are also being investigated.
 
 Armed with two guns, 46 live cartridges, a kukri, a surgical blade, a knife and an iron rod, Jolly went on a shooting and stabbing spree inside Khuranas’ bungalow in the E block of upscale Sector 39 on Tuesday night. He first stabbed Ajay’s domestic help Raju and then shot dead Ajay’s younger son Ankush (32) and wife Anju (55). As his pistols got jammed, he stabbed Ajay and Amit before locking himself inside a room.Ajay received several stitches on his head, neck and his right hand while Amit escaped with minor injuries on his right cheek and left hand. Raju, who was stabbed in the hip, underwent a surgery on Wednesday with doctors claiming he would recover. Jolly, on the other hand, had heavy injuries on his head, apparently self-inflicted with one of the sharp-edged weapons. He is still on life support at Kailash hospital. Doctors said they might perform a surgery on him on Friday.
 
 Ajay, who has shifted to his Mayur Vihar Phase I home after the attack, visited their Sector 39 bungalow for a brief period along with his elder son Amit on Thursday after police called them for investigations.
 
 Ajay told TOI it was a “well-planned attack” on his family. However, he did not talk about the “specific issue”, which might have led to the attack and the double murder. “I have been doing business for last 32 years, and have always believed in fair dealings. I never had any dispute with anyone. The police should thoroughly investigate the matter,” he said.Amit said that there had been no “joint investment” in the past three years. “We had some business partnership with Jolly in the past. But, there has been no joint venture in the last three years. We had minimised collaborations with him over some differences. However, he (Jolly) continued to visit our Mayur Vihar Phase I office — AS Properties — and home frequently, requesting to bridge the gap,” he said. “But, lately, he was not our business partner. There was no monetary dispute between us either,” Amit maintained. Asked about the possible motive, Amit said, “Jolly’s wife Meenu should be asked about it... she used to handle all financial dealings of her husband. The police should question her regarding the matter.”
 
 Meenu, when contacted, said she had no information about the incident. Investigating officer Amarnath Yadav, SHO, Sector 39 police station, said the police were looking into all possible reasons, but refused to divulge any other detail.
 
 
