Bhopal: Madhya Pradesh chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said it was not easy to control illegal sand mining but, it should be stopped immediately. He said the mining policy must be based on environment conservation, sustainable development and human approach. 

 “If sand mining from rivers is totally stopped, it can lead to erosion. Easy availability of sand for development can put the very existence of the river at stake. The policy should be balanced and practical and should not create a competition for economic profits. Illegal activities should also come to an end,” said the chief minister while inaugurating a national workshop on state mining police by the directorate of geology and mining MP and state mineral corporation limited.
 
 Chouhan said the state government is attempting to ensure easy availability of sand for development with minimum intervention and a transparent process. Sand should be made easily available to the general consumer so that new employment opportunities could be generated. The chief minister called upon the experts to ponder on the integrated and human perspective of mining policy. 
 
 “There should be a scientific procedure of mining that not only generates employment opportunities but also conserves ecology. I hope that the discussion would help in forming the mining policy of the state besides guiding formation of mining policy of the country'', Chouhan said.
 
 Addressing the participants, National Green Tribunal (NGT) chairperson Justice Dilip Singh said that just as mining work was must for development, leaving a healthy environment for our future generation is also must. There should be a balance between environment and development, said Justice Singh.
 
 “Alternatives for sand should be explored for development and machinery of affiliated departments for banning illegal mining should be strengthened,” he said.
 
 State minister for mineral resources Rajendra Shukla said that availability of sand in the state is 7 crore cubic meters. The need is an estimated 3 crore cubic metre. Efforts are being made to bring the mining policy within next two months. 
 
 During the inaugural session, director, geology and mining Sushil Kumar of Telangana and Chhattisgarh’s joint director, geology and mining D Mahesh Babu gave a power point presentation on state’s mining policy. 
 
 
