JAIPUR:   highlighted the failure of   (JDA) in preventing encroachments on government land.

 At a review meeting held at JDA headquarters, chaired by urban development and housing (UDH) minister  , city MLAs alleged that JDA officials had failed to take any action against encroachments in their respective constituencies despite informing them about the same.
 
 They alleged that government lands were being encroached in connivance with JDA officials.
 
 Health minister Kali Charan Saraf, MLA of Malviya Nagar, alleged that JDA’s enforcement wing was shielding and promoting illegal construction as timely action was not being taken against defaulters despite registering complaints.
 
 To prevent encroachments, state BJP president Ashok Parnami suggested constructing of boundary walls on government lands.
 
 Legislators also complained about JDA’s failure in completing civil works on time despite sanctioning MLA and MPLAD funds.
 
 “Saraf has asked JDA to carry out civil works worth Rs 20 crore in each constituency. If roads are not constructed on time, it would severely affect their next election campaign,” sources said.
 
 Chomu MLA Ram Lal Sharma pointed to the delays in completing the beautification of Veer Hanumanji project, which is being promoted as a religious tourist destination.
 
 Adarash Nagar MLA Parnami raised the issue of shifting the Khadda Basti. He said that as the basti falls in the catchment area, regularisation was not possible. It should be relocated as per Supreme Court norms.
 
 Kishanpole MLA Mohan Lal Gupta said the state government can send a positive message before the state assembly election in 2018 if JDA completed major projects such as the Ring Road, rejuvenation work of Dravyavati river and Jaipur Metro Phase I(B) in the stipulated time.
 
 In a veiled attack on former UDH minister Rajpal Singh Shekhawat, Gupta said that no meeting of the authority was called in the past three years.
 
 Before the meeting, the UDH minister also interacted with residents and heard their complaints. He was informed that civic amenities were still a far cry for residents ever since the government handed over colonies—developed by JDA, Rajasthan Housing Broad (RHB) and Urban Improvement Trust (UIT)—to Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC).
 
 The minister agreed to hold a joint meeting of RHB, JDA and JMC to frame rules and regulations for the same.
 
 Box: Decision on Ring Road project
 
 The final decision to terminate the contract of San Jose-Supreme, entrusted with the task of executing the Ring Road project, will be taken by the authority meeting to be held on February 3. The project is on the top of meeting agenda, sources said.
 
 
