KOLKATA/ JALPAIGURI: The state-wide police crackdown on child-traffickers since November is now throwing up the names of some senior administrative officials as well as those with political roles. The second round of arrests--by the CID in Jalpaiguri and the local police in Falta--revealed each of the gangs operating was interconnected with the other.

 The latest arrest came on Monday when the CID took district   Shasmita Ghosh into custody .CID clarified she was not a permanent government employee but on a contract. “Shasmita could not tell us how she amassed so much wealth and could not explain some of her signatures on the behalf of a home,“ a CID officer said. Her husband, Darjeeling DCPO Mrinal Ghosh, was earlier arrested.
 
 The CID is scheduled to question an additional DM of Jalpaiguri and a child welfare committee member in the next few hours for helping in for ging adoption papers.
 
 Top officers pointed out besides two top BJP leaders and a confidential assistant, the scanner was on a state party leader, now an MP , who allegedly helped suspended   general secretary Juhi Chowdhury and NGO owner   , who ran two shelter homes, to gain access to the Union ministry of women and child welfare through another senior BJP leader. The CID is likely to summon both the state BJP leader and the assistant.Sources said Chowdhury and Chakraborty sought the help of BJP leaders on realizing their tricks of feeding false de tails to Central Adoption Resource Authority was busted.The CID said they had zeroed in on five men in state contractual posts who created fake address of 17 kids, allegedly sold by Chakraborty's NGO.
 
 At Falta, the police have se aled Jeevandeep Nursing Home and arrested middleman   and his wife Sabitri, who confessed they would liaison between nursing homes and the “source“ where a baby could be spotted.Shyamal said he was linked with   on College Street and Purbasha home in Thakurpukur, from where CID rescued14 babies. The arrests of the nursing home owner, Prabir Khan, and his son led the cops to the middleman couple.
 
