HYDERABAD: The   is suddenly caught in a chilli cauldron.   is feeling the heat with Congress vigorously supporting the agitation by chilli farmers. In  , agitating farmers were arrested and jailed, triggering  . 

 With TRS and Congress engaged in a bitter war of words, the fight for remunerative prices for the spice crop snowballed into a major political issue. The ruling TRS is now blaming the BJP-led NDA government for its delay in announcing bonus to chilli farmers. 
 
 The crisis started a month ago when agriculture markets in Telangana received more than three lakh tonnes of chilli produce, a record yield after many years. The   does not have a minimum support price and this exposes farmers to vagaries of market conditions. With abundant supplies in markets, prices began dwindling. From RS 12,000 per tonne last year, rates fell to RS 4,000 per tonne this year. Chilli glut further depressed the market and there were instances where farmers are forced to sell produce at Rs 3,000 per tonne. 
 
 This infuriated farmers, who laid siege to several market yards in the state. At Khammam, one the biggest market yards in Telangana, on an average 2,000 to 4,000 quintals are sold daily. Since last week, market received more than one lakh tones of stock and prices hit rock bottom. Agitated farmers burnt their produce and even hurled stones at the market yard. 
 
 "We have sent proposals to Centre with a request to give at least Rs 1,500 bonus so that farmers will get a reasonable rate of Rs 6,000 to Rs 7000 per tonne. But the Centre did not respond over the last one month, which has embarrassed the state government," said a senior official. 
 
 BJP minister Bandaru Dattatreya’s comments that the state government had not sent the proposal on time has enraged TRS ministers, who on Sunday said, "The minister does not know how the MSP is announced. He is clueless," said T Nageswara Rao, roads and buildings minister, who hails from Khammam. 
 
 Ties between TRS and BJP has strained on the chilli bonus issue and both parties are indulging in a blame game. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao held discussions with agriculture officials to announce immediate relief for chilli farmers, who are in distress. Not waiting for NDA government’s decision, he is likely to announce compensation in a day or two.
 
