KOCHI: In a bid to   the processes as sociated with organ trans plantation, the   is seeking the help of Spain, a country known for   in  , to impart training to  .

 Officials with the health department have already held talks with the Spanish government in this regard. Top officials of the health department will soon visit Spain as part of next round of ne gotiations, sources said .
 
 Spain has already sent draft guide lines for harvesting and transplantation.
 
 “Taking a cue from the draft, the state government will prepare guidelines for the entire process including brain death certification, harvesting and transplantation. Doctors from Kerala would be sent to Spain for hands-on training in the latest advancements in the field. Experts from Spain will also come down to Kerala and impart training to the doctors here,“ said an official with the health department. 
 
 Studies would be conducted with the Spanish team to identify the problems in the cadaver transplantation in the state. The team would also help design modules for training doctors. The guidelines for organ transplantation would elaborate on how to declare the brain death, how to harvest the organs, their packaging and transportation etc.
 
 The state government has also plans to constitute an organization on the lines of   in the US. Doctors and experts in the orgnanization, which would be solely controlled by government, would monitor each case of brain death certification, harvesting and transplantation.
 
 “They would visit hospital where the brain death is declared. It would be in their presence that the tests for determining brain deaths would be conducted. This is to gain the confidence of the relatives of the brain dead patients and the public,“ said an official with the health department.
 
 More and more government hospitals would also be included in the network of hospitals where organ transplantation using cadavers would be conducted. “Only a few government hospitals are conducting organ transplantations. Once more government hospitals are roped in, the cost of the surgery and treatment can be reduced. Moreover, it would help gain the confidence of the public,“ sources said.
 
 Some of the medical colleges with potential to conduct transplantation surgeries would be identified. “Kottayam medical college, for example, is now conducting heart transplantations. So, the medical college can be developed as a centre of heart and kidney transplantation,“ sources said. Similarly, courses in organ transplantation will be included in the curriculum of medical studies. “ As of now, doctors trained in foreign countries are conducting transplantation surgeries. We will have to start fellowship courses in the medical colleges to mould doctors here,“ sources said.
 
 There are also plans to induct more government doctors in the panel of authorized doctors for certifying brain death. “For the purpose, we would be giving training to at least 25 doctors from each district. The training programme would begin in the last week of April,“ an official said.
 
