GURUGRAM: Smart gram model adopted for five villages in Gurgaon, including Tajpur, Alipur, Dhaula, Harchandpur, and Rojkameo (Mewat) will be implemented in 100 more villages in the state under the adoption scheme by the Indian President Pranab Mukherjee.

 The president will be visiting one of the five adopted villages named Dhaula on June 2, where he will be inaugurating a secondary school and driving training institutes. He will also address the villagers. 
 
  “The president will be inaugurating these two projects, then the Smart gram model will be implemented in 100 other villages in the vicinity of these five villages,” said  , additional deputy commissioner, Gurgaon.
 
 He added that over the last one year different development works have been conducted in these villages with special focus on education, skill development, renewable energy and health. The same model will also be followed for the other 100 villages.
 
 Many private and non-governmental organisations are also working with government agencies in these villages. The secondary school being inaugurated in Dhaula, for instance, has been funded by Oil PSUs under their CSR initiatives.
 
 A few of the projects which were initiated in the five villages, including Dhaula, over the last one year include setting up of solar rooftop power systems, skill development centres, rural economic zone, Smartgram custom hiring centre, wellness centres based on Ayush and video/tele conferencing based karma e-clinics.
 
 Meanwhile the preparations for the president’s visit have already begun and roads are being repaired along with beautification measures on the way down to Dhaula. Last week, the police commissioner   also visited the village to assess the security for the upcoming visit.
 
 In July last year the five villages were adopted post which a team of senior officials from the president’s office had visited the villages. Consequently a Smart gram model was designed for the five villages and multiple different projects were launched in the five villages under the constant monitoring of the president’s office.
 
 A team of a few residents from these villages had even visited the Rashtrapati Bhawan in July last year, where they interacted with the officials and conveyed their concerns.
 
