LUDHIANA: The Ludhiana police in a joint operation with   claimed to have arrested seven members of   (BKI) on Saturday. Barring two, all other arrested accused are between the age of 18 and 23 years. Moreover, one of them is a class XI student, one is granthi at a gurdwara and another is a minor.

 According to police, anti-Khalistan and anti-Sikhs groups, which are active on social networking sites, were their target and they were planning a big strike in Punjab. Further, England-based Surinder Singh Babbar, an active member of BKI, had approached them through Facebook and prepared them to carry out subversive activities in the state, claimed police.
 
 Commissioner of police R N   said, “The Babbar Khalsa International was planning to carry out subversive activities in Punjab for which the active member of BKI in England, Surinder Singh Babbar, picked these seven people from different districts of Punjab. He approached them through social networking sites and emotionally provoked them to be a part of the terrorist organization.”
 
 He added, “Though the arrested accused have no criminal background, and they have joined the terrorist organization couple of months ago, they were preparing for a big strike in Punjab. They had also held a few meetings in Ludhiana for the same purpose.”
 
 The accused have been identified as Kuldeep Singh, a transporter from Basti Jodhewal area of Ludhiana, Jasvir Singh, a truck driver from Tarantan, Amandeep Singh, a granthi at a gurdwara in Jalandhar, Manpreet Singh class XI student from Moga, Onkar Singh, Jugraj Singh and a minor – all school dropouts from Amritsar.
 
 The police have also recovered one .32 bore pistol with 20 cartridges and two .315 bore country-made pistols with 13 cartridges from their possession. The accused have been arrested form different locations, told the police.
 
 
 
 Facebook played a vital role in helping terrorist Surinder Singh Babbar approach youngsters. Commissioner of Police R N Dhoke said, “Surinder Singh Babbar was doing the main job. Several Khalistan supporters are running many Facebook pages form where he would identify his supporters and targets. He has also provided funds to the accused to purchase weapons.” The police will thoroughly check these Facebook pages during investigation, he said. The police traced these accused through Facebook only.
 
 
 
 The cops are also probing if the accused had any links with the murders of RSS vice president  , city-based Hindu leader Amit Sharma and Khanna-based Shiv Sena leader Durga Prasad. “It is too early to comment on any possible connection of the BKI with the murders of Hindu leaders. But police will investigate this angle too,” Dhoke said.
 
