SURAT: Relatives of patients are compelled to lift patients to reach the wards in New Civil Hospital ( ) not because of non-availability of stretchers or wheel chairs in the hospital. But duo to lack of staff assigned the work to transport patients to wards. 

 After recruitment of 450 class IV workers in 1982, there has been no new appointments in the category till date. Now, the civil hospital is left with only 70 class IV workers on duty. People are being hired on daily basis to transfer patients to wards and to do the cleaning job. But still the hospital is short of such staff. As a result, patients’ relatives have to themselves carry them to ward or other departments of the hospital for tests.
 
 At present, NCH has 1,050 beds and of that on an average, 800 remain occupied. It has a daily OPD of 2,000 to 2,500 patients. NCH employs nearly 100 ward boys during day time and 70 in the night.
 
 However, since these ward boys are hired on contract basis, they are not answerable to the doctors but to their contractors.
 
 “When a patient is taken on a stretcher to the orthopedic ward, these contract workers deliver the patient to the relatives and walk off. Once the patient is transferred by relatives to the bed, the stretcher remains there or gets pushed to a corner. When it is required outside it is not available,” alleged Iqbal Kadiwala, president of  . 
 
 Secretary of class IV union in   said, “We fall short of at least 45 people on daily basis and on top of that people on contract are careless. We need to immediately recruit the staff on permanent basis to solve such issues.”
 
 In NCH, there are more than 100 wheel chairs and 100 odd stretchers. Emergency and trauma centres too have 10 wheel chairs and stretchers each. Each OPD has five wheel chairs and stretchers.
 
 Mahesh Wadel, medical superintendent of NCH said, “Right now, we have got sanction for 35 ward boys but are awaiting paper work to be completed. Once they are recruited, issues of this nature will reduce. We are trying to recruit people as early as possible.”
 
 
