Kalyan: A 29-year-old man succumbed to his injuries early on Friday after being   by a   and his goons in Dombivli the night before. His family said he was targeted for resisting the developer’s bid to drive them out of their  .

 Vishal Taware had complained to the civic body after the builder, Pandarinath Patil, allegedly with the help of the husband of a local corporator, cut water connection to the chawl, said his uncle Dhanraj. 
 
 Pandarinath is keen on developing a 15,000 sq ft plot behind the chawl and is trying to remove it to lay an approach road.
 
 Pandarinath, his son Sameer and associate Kishor Patil have been arrested. Police are investigating the role of Lalchand Bhoir, husband of corporator Shaileja Bhoir, and searching for three unidentified accused.
 
 Vishal, who was brought up by Dhanraj, worked as driver for a BPO in Navi Mumbai and was married with two sons, aged two and four.
 
 On Thursday, Pandarinath called Vishal, who stayed at Kolegaon on the Dombivli-Badlapur road, to his bungalow, Krishna, in the same locality. When Vishal went with Dhanraj and his cousins Shubhash and Amit around 9.30pm, the builder and his men pounced on them. They were beaten up, but somehow managed to escape. Amit and Vishal, who received multiple injuries, were admitted to a local hospital that night. During treatment, Vishal passed away around 2.30am.
 
 “Pandarinath, with the help of Lalchand, disconnected water to the 40 families in the chawl last month in an effort to get them to force chawl owner Uday Pashal into a deal with him,” said Dhanraj. When they approached Pashal, he refused to interfere, forcing Vishal to complain about Patil and Bhoir to the KDMC on Monday. 
 
 Vishal’s family claimed that when they approached Manpada police after his death, they avoided filing a complaint and asked them to contact the Ramanagar police station, saying Vishal had died in a hospital in their jurisdiction. Things started moving after Vishal’s cousin Sanjay Taware posted a video on Facebook criticising the Manpada police.
 
 On Dhanraj’s complaint, the Manpada police finally filed a murder and rioting case and arrested Pandarinath, his son and associate. The police said Bhoir was not present during the assault, but he was behind cutting the water supply. Attempts to contact Bhoir proved futile as his phone was switched off.
 
