PUNE: A software professional   and then   from the ceiling fan at their rented accommodation at   in  , around 12km from here, late on Tuesday night.

 A note written by the software professional,   (34), said there were frequent arguments between him and his wife, Sonali (28), over her sharing details with her friends on social networking sites about their marriage and other personal matters.
 
 The Gangurdes, who hailed from Satana taluka in Nashik district, were married for the last four years but did not have children. Rakesh, a B.Sc. as well as an MBA, was employed with a private firm at Swargate. Around a month back, he had resigned from the job and was set to take up a better assignment with a company in Surat. Sonali, BE (computers) degree-holder, was a homemaker.
 
 Sonali’s brother, Harshal Pawar, who lives at Baner, told the police that he got a call around 5pm on Wednesday from his mother in Nashik saying that Sonali was not reachable on her phone since afternoon. Pawar too tried Sonali’s number as well as Rakesh’s, but got no response.
 
 Pawar and his cousin, Prashant Deolekar, rushed to the flat and summoned a keymaker to open the door. However, the flat was locked from inside. Pawar then used a small hammer and tried to break the window grille, but was told by neighbours to call the police instead. The police, when called, came to the flat and broke open the door.
 
 Assistant inspector Kiran Londhe from the Hadapsar police station told TOI that the note found in the flat read that the couple was living a happy married life but relations began souring after Rakesh learnt about Sonali sharing details about their family planning measures and other personal matters with her friends on social networking sites.
 
 Londhe said Rakesh apparently throttled Sonali to death on the bed and hanged himself with a nylon rope. The bed was found broken. The note, written by Rakesh in Marathi, read that he was responsible for the crime.
 
 Senior inspector Vishnu Pawar of the Hadapsar police station said they had received no complaint from Sonali against Rakesh. Sonali’s family too had no clue of any dispute between them. The bodies were handed over to the respective families after the post-mortem. 
 
