Ahmedabad:   from Shiyalbet, a small island off Gujarat coast, were surprised to learn that the state government thinks it practical to treat emergencies of deep-sea accident victims at hospitals 30-40km away from the seashore. 

 They have cited data obtained from authorities under provisions of RTI laws which reveal that 31 persons died in mid-sea accidents, because medical assistance could not be provided to them in time. The petitioners have demanded a system to provide medical aid to mid-sea accident victims as soon as they can be brought to shore.
 
 The fishermen, who have filed a PIL at the Gujarat high court demanding medical emergency services for those who meet accidents while fishing at sea, claimed to be shocked by the government’s reply at the HC on Friday. 
 
 The government told the court that primary health centres (PHC) and community health centres (CHC) affiliated with concerned district hospitals and the ambulance network is enough to meet the requirments of medical emergencies arising from mid-sea accidents..
 
 The fishermen maintain that after sailing for 30-40 nautical miles to bring an accident victim to seashore, a journey of another 30-40km by road to reach a hospital, before emergency treatment could be provided, was impractical.
 
 The government, however, maintained that in case of an emergency, fishermen can call dedicated emergency helplines and ambulances can be rushed to the seashore, before the boat carrying the patient can dock. This ‘integration’ is sufficient, the government said. “How can a hospital situated 60-70km from seashore cater to medical emergencies that take place in deep sea?” asked the counsel of the fishermen, Hirak Ganguly.
 
 Pointing out an example of impracticality, the advocate said, “The government has cited Sola Civil Hospital and Rukshmani Hospital of Khokhra for medical assitance to PHCs and CHC of Dhandhuka block, Ahmedabad district. But people in these villages are not involved in fishing at all.”
 
 The HC is to take up further hearing on this issue next week.
 
 
