Released under the banner of Silver Screen Productions’ Willy Silveira’s first Lenten tiatr Kaklut Mhoji Kor was witnessed by a nearly ‘houseful’ audience at the Pai Tiatrist hall, Ravindra Bhavan, Margao, on Saturday afternoon. Kaklut Mhoji Kor highlights the tribulations faced by the differently-abled in society while underscoring the proverb – ‘as you sow, so shall you reap’ with the narrative showcasing how the once vain Mark (played by Pascoal Rodrigues) who ill-treats a visually impaired individual is later humbled after he undergoes a life changing experience. Mark’s wife, Martha (Roshan) delivers a baby boy, Roston, but their joy is shortlived on learning that Roston is born blind. Mark refuses to accept Roston (Baba Sweden Almeida), blaming him for bringing ill-luck to the family. Mark’s elder brother (Jaju Ferns) and his wife (Dolla Mascarenhas) instigate Mark to leave Roston at an orphanage. However, the mother is unwilling and leaves home with her son to reside in a small hut.  One day, Martha meets the well-known Delhi-based Dr Rego (Peter de Benaulim), who has lost his way. Martha gives him directions to his destination but Rego informs her that God has heard her prayers and he will cure Roston sans any fees.  Meanwhile, Mark discovers his days are numbered as he has a brain tumour. Ironically, he is cured by the son he disowned who is now a neurologist (played by Willy Silveira). Mark apologizes to his son and wife for having hurt them. Amongst the 16 songs, including five canttos in Kaklut Mhoji Kor, a solo sung by Mini Mario about caring for old priests in clergy homes left an impression. Similarly, the comedy duets by Benny de Aldona and Cajetan de Curtorim as well as Peter-Roshan were well-received by the audience. The latter, who donned the attire of the quickly-declining Goan render (toddy tapper) community, criticised the Supreme Court ban on bars within 500m from the national and state highways while speaking of the various locally produced and fermented alcohol in the state and highlighting the harsh consequences on the livelihood of those dependent on this trade. Besides, songs cautioning against the evils of alcoholism, caring for one’s aged parents instead of abandoning them in old age homes, superstitious beliefs, vocation to be a priest, religious scenes beautifully enacted from various Biblical passages enthralled the audience. The comedy trio of Humbert Fernandes, Agostinho Temudo and Evola Couto had the audience in stitches.  The cast of Kaklut Mhoji Kor includes Benzer Fernandes, Gabby Ferns and Damen Cardozo. Musicians comprise Ariff Correia playing the keyboards, Fexon Colaco on the bass guitar, Ivo Furtado playing the drums, Selvyn Braganza playing the first trumpet and Christo de Shiroda was on second trumpet. While the stage setting was managed by trio Esperdiao Sequeira, Damen Cardozo and Baptist Fernandes, light effects were entrusted to Ratna Pednekar with Jacinto Gracias responsible for the transport arrangements, said director Willy Silveira. After performing for 17 years, I decided to debut my tiatr ‘Kaklut Mhoji Kor’ during this Lenten season so as to propagate the word of God. The differently-abled are not a curse to their family as is often presumed, they are God’s blessings. I urge the audience to encourage new directors so as to promote fresh story ideas 