THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The national executive of Janata Dal (United), to be held in New Delhi on July 23, will be crucial for its state unit headed by  , MP. 

 The state leaders are unhappy over the support extended by its national leadership to  . Opposing the decision, the state leadership declared that it would back UPA’s candidate Meira Kumar. A state committee of JD(U) will be convened soon after the national executive meet, in which major changes in political line are expected.
 
  “Changes are necessary for the party before the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. 
 
 The state committee will have to take a collective decision on this. We are not happy to be part of the UDF ,’’ said Shaik P Haris, state general secretary of JD(U).
 
 CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan on Wednesday had welcomed the party to LDF camp. 
 
 JD(U) leaders and cadres have already expressed their disappointment over assembly poll debacle, where the party lost in all the seven seats it contested as a constituent of UDF. To pacify the JD(U) leadership, the Congress had given the Rajya Sabha seat to Veerendra Kumar. The party has received only setbacks after joining the UDF, said Shaik P Haris, adding that though they have raised several complaints before the Congress leadership, no action was taken.
 
 Meanwhile, former chief minister Oommen Chandy made it clear that all the issues raised by the JD(U) would be resolved through bilateral discussions. “I don’t think JD(U) will leave UDF as they had come out of the LDF raising same issues,’’ said Chandy.
 
 LDF convener Vaikkom Viswan, while commenting on the development, said it hinted at the disintegration of UDF. “The JD(U) should be part of the LDF and we will welcome them,” he said.
 
 Janata Dal (S) leader Mathew T Thomas also welcomed JD(U) to LDF. Thomas told reporters that his faction that stood with the LDF during the split had warned JD(U) against joining UDF.
 
 The faction led by Kumar walked away from JD (S) in 2009 after LDF denied him Kozhikode parliament seat. The new party, Socialist Janata Dal, later merged with JD (U) led by Kumar’s former socialist colleagues Sharad Yadav and Nitish Kumar.
 
