CHENNAI: With Elon Musk’s Tesla announcing its India sales from summer 2017, desi electric car maker Mahindra Electric (formerly Reva) is getting ready to make the most of the demand that will kick in. It is meeting state governments evangelizing e-cars, tying up with fleet operators for city commute, organizing road shows.

 In conversation with TOI, S Mahesh Babu, CEO of Mahindra Electric says, a hockey stick growth is anticipated for his company. Excerpts:
 
 While Mahindra Electric is the sole maker of e-cars in India, why hasn’t the monopoly translated to sales numbers?
 
 Any new technology takes time to percolate, and electric mobility is no different. We are focusing our energies on building a strong foundation for this industry and sales numbers will follow. We have in fact also increased our production capacity to close to 5000 a year.
 
 Tesla has announced its India entry. How do you see this impact the Indian market?
 
 Tesla has been instrumental in building an inspirational value for electric vehicles all over the world. We are happy to see that Tesla, as well as other organizations are showing keen interest in the Indian market. With more number of players in the industry, it will be faster to develop the industry and consumption in terms of sales will also grow; something which is in the common interest of everyone – including the country!
 
 Isn’t it important for companies like Mahindra Electric to evangelize the e-car concept? Only a handful of State governments have announced tax relief for your cars.
 
 Mahindra Electric currently is the only player in the electric vehicle market in India, and at this position it is very essential that we are the forefront of this revolution as the evangelists.
 
 In specific, Rajasthan, Chattisgarh and Himachal Pradesh offer 0% VAT and 0% road tax for all EVs. Madhya Pradesh and Chandigarh offer 0% VAT and while Maharashtra and Karnataka offer 0% Road tax. States likes Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Telangana, Kerala, Haryana & Delhi have reduced VAT and road tax when compared to the ICE vehicles. We are sure that other states will follow suit very soon. A 1% decrease wouldn’t make a huge difference to the prices for the end consumer. 
 
 Do you see the Indian market at an inflexion point? Why do you say so?
 
 Traditionally, new technologies have seen a hockey stick growth curve in India, and that’s exactly what we are experiencing now. The Indian market presents unique opportunities to explore both the high end performance based segment as well as mass and public mobility. Making it a lucrative market. What’s more, just notice the current trends, the growing interest of the public and the government; talks of new entrants interested in the market; government’s commitment to EVs by allocating more funds to FAME and the most important, our own growth of close to 60% in the last year alone!
 
 We at the tipping point now and its all upwards from here.
 
 
