Jaipur: Think of a police station and what springs to mind are gloomy images of hardened cops and dreadful criminals. But the oldest police station of the city also offers a rare slice of history with cops here having meticulously preserved FIRs, documents and criminal records dating back to 1926, way before Rajasthan police came into being.  The brightly lit record room of the Kotwali police station near Kishanpole Bazar contains more than 2,000 pages of antique First Information Report (FIRs), criminals’ complaints, and other police records which offer glimpses of everyday life during pre-Independence era. For 40-year-old Bhim Raj, a constable at Kotwali, the mission of preserving these documents which were in decaying state, was a difficult task. “Earlier, these pages were lumped together and packed in different red bundles. These bundles had accumulated so much dust and moisture that we had to keep them under sun for eight days. We had to remove dust from each log separately and later began binding them in registers,” Bhim Raj said. The project to preserve these antique papers began in 2012 and was completed in August 2013. The arduous task also took its toll on the health of Bhim Raj and his team. “Because of clearing dust off these papers, all of us contracted some kind of breathing problems. But we are happy that history has been preserved in a manner that can now be passed on to generations,” he added. The then station house officer, Pushpendra Singh, also requested government for renovation of the record room which was in a dire condition. “The police station is located in a very old building, and the moisture had peeled the paint from the walls of the record room. The perilous condition of the room also posed a risk to these papers. So we renovated the entire record room,” said Singh, currently posted at Rajasthan Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS). The team of constables spent several hours separating these papers year-wise, and then delicately binding them into registers. Another challenge was where to keep these records as there were no shelves. “We collected funds from community liasioning group (CLG) members and donations from private person to make strong glass shielded wooden closets to keep these records,” Raj said. The record room at Kotwali today is packed with over 500 green and red coloured registers. A white sticker has been affixed on every record book, indicating the year, number of files and the nature of documents it contains. The registers from year 1926 till 2009 have been kept separately as after that computer replaced the old way of handwritten notes. Every day, the constables and helpers clean every corner of the record room to safeguard it. DCP (North) Anshuman Bhomia said that Kotwali has preserved the documents in such a way that even the oldest FIR can be accessed in a few minutes. Police commissioner Sanjay Agarwal said that all these documents would soon be archived. “Kotwali is a historical place for Jaipur police, therefore, we are getting in touch with archive experts to explore the texts of the antique documents in order to chronicle Jaipur police’s own history,” Agarwal told TOI.