AHMEDABAD : Just how road contractors were making a killing even as the pockmarked roads were being repaired in the city, came to light in the   submitted to   on Tuesday. It was on August 8, when the   chairman handed over two IOCL duplicate bills to the AMC vigilance department for inquiry that skeletons tumbled out of the cupboard. 

 The vigilance department discovered how the buyer’s copy of the   were being duplicated to claim payments. “The duplicate bill scam may be more widespread. It is now necessary to scrutinize all 2,114 bitumen bills,” said the vigilance note submitted by DyMC Arjav Shah. Seven officers were suspended from just five wards of two zones— Paldi, Chandkheda, Ghatlodia, Gota and Taltej.
 
 In all, in the last two years 38,386 metric tonnes of bitumen was used which was procured at the rate of Rs27,383 to Rs27,700 per metric tonne. This amounted to Rs105 crore worth of bitumen. “One wonders how big the scam will be if all zones are scrutinized. Inquiries in five wards have led to seven suspensions already,” said opposition leader Dinesh Sharma.
 
 “The scale of the scam will be huge even if one were to scrutinize bitumen bills beyond 2015 towards 2011,” said a senior AMC official. 
 
 Some of the big suppliers under scanner include Akash Infrastructure which has supplied 6,593 tonnes, GPC Infrastructure which has supplied 9,800 tonnes, Narayanan infrastructure which supplied 9,222 tonnes, and Jugal Kishore Ramakrishnan Agarwal which has supplied bulk of the bitumen in the last two years, along with 13 other suppliers in the city. “We are yet to undertake a detailed scrutiny of bills in all wards. We expect more irregularities to tumble out. Right now if the inquiries begin the roadworks will suffer,” said a senior AMC official. 
 
 After the July deluge, 202km of road stretches in the city turned to rubble. Only 18km of these were under defect liability or guarantee by contractors, whereas costs to repair the rest has to be borne by the taxpayers.
 
 
