NAGPUR: With around 500 civic officials already working full time for the elections next month,   (NMC) is struggling to meet day-to-day  .

 These 500 officials have been roped in from all 10 zones, and make up a small part of the total 12,000 needed for the municipal polls. However, with just two months left for the financial year to end, NMC has managed to collect only Rs 862.98 crore revenue. To meet the target of Rs 2,048 crore, the civic body needs to generate another Rs 186 crore.
 
 Officers have admitted that   are getting affected because of the staff crunch. However, this is not the first time that NMC will be missing its revenue target. “It will be the sixth consecutive year if NMC fails to meet the targeted revenue,” said an official of accounts department.
 
 Municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar has proposed to table the current fiscal’s revised budget and budget for 2017-18 in early February. The administration’s failure to earn requisite revenue has raised questions about the budget planning exercise and the overall administrative efficiency in revenue collection.
 
 The revised budget for current year and fresh budget for next fiscal is always based on the civic body’s revenue and expenditure in the first eight months — between April 1 and November 30. As per NMC data, NMC earned a mere Rs 862.98 crore revenue till December 31, which is roughly 34% of the targeted revenue of Rs 2,048 crore in the budget presented by standing chairman Sudhir Raut.
 
 Though LBT was scrapped in 2015, the standing committee had expected Rs735 crore grant from the state government, but the department has received only Rs 65.96 crore till December 31.
 
 Another major setback for the cash-starved NMC is non-implementation of capital-based property tax in the current fiscal year too. This has hit NMC coffers hard. The targeted property tax is Rs 306.45 crore, but revenue is Rs 138.10 crore only so far.
 
 Similarly, the market department officials hope to achieve target of Rs 7.55 crore, said the source, but have collected only Rs 4.52 crore so far.
 
 The administration has admitted to around Rs 700 crore shortfall in revenue earnings in nine months for 2016-17 against a target of Rs 2,048 crore. The plethora of populist schemes announced in the budget are bound to be hit by this.
 
 Even though the budget figures have grown manifold, the actual revenue generated has fallen short for the last many years, say sources. As a result, many projects remain only on paper while NMC keeps adding new ventures to the list of pending projects year after year.
 
 A senior official pointed out the main reason for this shortfall is the exaggerated revenue targets set by the standing committee since last the last six years.
 
  Even though the civic administration has repeatedly asked the general body to keep targets realistic, the city fathers keep inflating the budget every year while opposing tax reforms to generate revenue.
 
 Civic officials admitted that poor revenue generation is affecting the priority projects and infrastructure works. “But the problem is we cannot go against the wishes of the elected members. It is time they get realisticIt is time they realize city’s needs would be met only if there are more sources of revenue and higher tax slabs,” he said.
 
