DANKUNI/PALSIT/KHARAGPUR: What difference does 500 metres make? “Jodi 500 metre dureo bar ta hoy, driver toh mod kheye shey highway-tei uthbe,” said the owner of a bar in Dankuni, on NH-2. His logic, echoed by many others in his line of work, seems hard to refute: “Even if the bar is 500 metres away, drivers will drink there and start driving on the highway.” What’s the point [of the 500-metre rule], they question. 

 While most have shut shop and are looking at the state government to bail them out, others say they are unsure whether setting up business at another location was a solution. “When the business model is seriously compromised, there is little will left to continue the business. Add to it the administrative hurdles we need to cross before obtaining a new permit,” said the owner of a bar close to Palsit.
 
 Most hope that being located in panchayat areas, they might still be able to make the cut. “But it is the excise department officials who asked us to shut shop. Till now, we have not heard from them again,” complained the owner of a pub next to the Dankuni toll plaza.
 
 They claim the state cannot turn a blind eye to those located on NH-2. “We have followed all norms, gone through all checks to obtain licences. Imagine some of our fellow owners making huge profits in areas like  , right up to the Bally bridge approach. We expect the state to offer us at least some rehabilitation package,” said an owner.
 
  from Kolkata, owner of Golden Inn, near Singur, says he invested Rs 30 crore when the hotel was inaugurated in 2012. There are 17 staff members and daily food and alcohol sales stood at around Rs 50,000 a month till March.” Balaji Hotel and Bar in Singur has 11 staff members. Sales stood at Rs 900- Rs 11,000 per day. “We have shut down the hotel. I have a stock of Rs 35 lakh in liquor, and I am worried,” said Singur-based owner Munna Pakhira.
 
 Why are these bars-cum-restaurants shutting shop? The answer came from the manager of Govindapur-based Lokenath Restaurant and bar. “The restaurant is still open. But business is less than 90% of normal sales. Without alcohol, we are hardly attracting customers. The problem is acute for those bars located closer to Kolkata. People stopped here because they got a feel of both worlds. My workers are getting impatient and asking me if they should look at other jobs,” said the manager.
 
 (With additional inputs from from Falguni Banerjee in  ) 
 
 
