NAGPUR: After a month’s gap, the much talked about rivalry between Nagpur Police and   (VCA), once again came to fore on Thursday. This time it was over the issuance of free passes to the cops for international cricket matches. 

 A division bench comprising justice comprising Justice Bhushan Gavai and Justice Atul Chandurkar directed the VCA to frame guidelines in this regard within two weeks.
 
 The court further directed additional chief secretary of State Home Department to inform about status of dispute between VCA and cops regarding pending arrears towards security provided for the cricket matches held at Jamtha stadium since last six to seven years. 
 
 The directives came while hearing a PIL filed by social worker Paramjeet Singh Kalsi through   seeking directives to the association to pay security dues.
 
 The vexed issue of free passes came up for discussion after the court perused an old affidavit filed by VCA President   through counsel Akshay Naik. He had accused Nagpur Police of allegedly threatening VCA office-bearers for failure to handover 500 complimentary passes for T20 international match played between India and England on January 29.
 
 Jaiswal made a slew of shocking allegations against the senior cops for watching the match without tickets with their guests and also enjoying VCA’s hospitality. The officers watched match from corporate box and also from the CCTV room, which was a sensitive place. He named DCP Zone-I   and additional CP (Crime)   for allegedly pressuring them for the free passes and also threatening them. Even CP K Venkatesh had endorsed their demand stating that DCPs were dissatisfied with low number of passes. VCA further charged the police machinery of deliberately harassing them to ensure that their illegal and arbitrary demands are met in future.
 
 The court then passed several strictures on the police for their alleged “extortionist” attitude in demanding passes, while terming their behaviour as “obnoxious”. The judges had advised VCA to stop granting free passes to anyone. However, senior counsel Sunil Manohar, appearing for VCA, dropped a bombshell by stating that no match would take place if free passes were not provided. “We will direct you not to give complimentary passes to anyone except cricket players. This is extortion,” the judges had then remarked.
 
 Earlier, VCA informed that the total dues were not Rs7.7 crore as claimed by the petitioner citing various media reports. It stated that those were around Rs4.50 crore after they verified it with police. It had paid Rs3.20 crore to the police so far.
 
