KOLKATA: This is the story of a modern-day Valmiki, though not one planning to write an epic.   Gokul Naskar had realised early in life that honesty was not going to help him feed his 11brothers and sisters, a responsibility thrust on him with his father's death when he had barely turned 18. But a hundred violent robberies and several jail stints later, Daku Gokul (as he was better known) turned a sage and is now Gokul Maharaj of an ashram he set up in Kultali back in 2000.

 The eldest of 11 siblings, Gokul stepped into the   at 18. “There were no jobs or any proper means of livelihood in Kultali when my father died in 1960. I had to look after the family and feed my brothers and sisters. I saw no other option but to take to dacoity as a livelihood,“ he said.
 
 For four long decades -from age 18 to 58 -Gokul lived alife looting gold jewellery, money , sacks of rice and just about anything of value. After his first dacoity , carried out after hiring a boat, Gokul felt the need to form a gang. He organized one with 12 members initially. The gang procured pipe guns and swords and made their own bombs as essential weapons to scare and, if necessary , maim or even kill, targeted victims.
 
 The gang that grew with time began carrying out a slew of violent robberies. After opening their account in their homeground of Kultali, the gang soon spread its tentacles to adjoining Basanti in the Sunderbans and even turned pirates, looting launch boats and fishing trawlers plying on the rivers separating islands of the delta. Emboldened by their success but not satisfied with the quantum of each loot in the Sunderbans, the gang ventured into the more dangerous underworld of Howrah and Hooghly .
 
 These forays landed Gokul and his partners-in-crime behind bars several times. The turning point for Gokul came after a betrayal by his associates towards the end of the last century . After their arrest, they named him as the mastermind for looting jewellery from a wedding hall in Kultali.“Though I was in no way involved in that mission, they planned and carried it out on their own,“ said Gokul, who nevertheless had to spend his longest stint (two years and 19 days) in jail “for that false charge“. Once out of jail, he decided never to re-en ter the world of crime again and instead, bemit. Taking his came a hermit. Taking his `diksha' from   of Jadavpur, Gokul returned to Kultali, where he collected funds to set up the Sri Sri Thakur Satyananda Krishna Kali Seva Ashram that also houses a temple and a school from Classes I-IV where volunteer teachers continue to teach alarge number of students.
 
 Local resident Shyamal Naskar said, “This is a miraculous transformation. Gokul was always known as a notorious dacoit across Kultali and its adjoining islands. When he first set up the ashram, it was hard to believe how such a person could run a school. But over the years, hundreds of students from our area have attended the school.“
 
 
 
 
 
