 might have grown up in Delhi, but the singer says he spent a lot of time in Gurgaon during his pre-stardom days. An association that began while working in his family business as a teenager has continued now with multiple gigs in the Millennium City for Indeep. We spoke to the singer during his latest visit to Gurgaon before he was set to perform at a private event here. He has spoken about his liking for Gurgaon and particularly   in the past as well. Last year, he had told us that it is a place where ‘15 minutes mein koi na koi lyrics aa hi jaate hain’. But while he used to frequent the place earlier, his visits are becoming rare now. The singer says that’s because now the fans recognize him and he doesn’t get to work on his lyrics like before. He recounts an incident from earlier this year, "I used to go to Cyber Hub a lot when I wanted to write songs. So, a few months ago, when I was in the middle of a writer’s block, I told my friends, 'Chalo Cyber Hub chalte hain, wahin lyrics likhenge'. It had been a long time since I had been to the place. Lyrics toh kya hi likhe, I ended up posing for selfies and videos with fans for two hours."

 Cyber Hub isn’t the only place in Gurgaon that Indeep has a connect with. Before making it big as a singer, the Delhi boy used to work in his family's construction business and visits to  's furniture market were common for him. He then started performing at pubs and lounges on MG Road.
 Indeep says, "My association with Gurgaon dates back to seven-eight years ago, when I wasn’t a singer. When I was in the construction line, I used to visit the MG Road furniture market. That was my first tryst with Gurgaon. Then I started performing at the clubs and lounges in the malls on the same road."
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The nightlife and food scene of Gurgaon are its best features, Indeep feels, something that separates it from other NCR cousins. He elaborates, "I am very fond of trying new cuisines. What I often do, is I google new types of cuisines and dishes that I want to try, and every time, the results point me to places in Gurgaon. That drew me to this city initially. The late night food here is also amazing. When I work with my team on any new song, I prefer to do that late at night. We only start working at around midnight and at that time, if you want to eat something, the best place for that is Gurgaon. You’ll get anything here. Kahin na kahin se, kuch na kuch jugaad toh ho hi jaata hai, whatever the time may be."
 
 About the Gurgaon residents, Indeep says, "They know how to celebrate their weekend. Apne liye toh har din chhutti hai, but for the corporate employees of Gurgaon, Saturday and Sunday hold a lot of importance. So, they really know how to have fun then. Jitna enjoy Gurgaon ke log karte hain, utna toh hum bhi nahi karte."
 
 
 
