KOLHAPUR: The  ,   (SUK) is all set to tackle the annual admission crisis in the beginning of the academic year.

 “The university has approved the proposal for 100 new divisions in the conventional course category. We will forward the proposal to the state government for a final nod on the decision,” said acting pro VC of SUK, D T Shirke.
 
 “There are also some 50 proposals for starting new subjects in the Arts, Commerce and Science streams. There are negligible proposals in the professional course category,” he added.
 
 Every year, SUK faces a severe seat crunch in Arts, Commerce and Science streams. There are not enough seats to cater the demands of students across Sangli, Satara and Kolhapur districts.
 
 An SUK official said, “With increased number of students applying for HSC in the recent past, the number of students taking admissions in these conventional courses have rose subsequently. Comparatively, the professional courses such as engineering has been seeing a falling response, eventually adding the number of applicants in the regular courses. In the last few years, SUK has seen a tremendous rise in the number of students. It is important for us to start 100 new divisions soon.”
 
 “We are hoping that the state government will give a green signal to our proposal soon. It will benefit us in resolving the acute admission crisis,” he added.
 
 Another SUK official said, “Generally, there are 120 seats per division, so hypothetically if all the 100 new divisions get a green signal from the state, it will straight away resolve the admissions of 12,000 students. It will be of great relief to these students as many have to leave their education mid-way or take up a course in which they are not interested.”
 
 “SUK has witnessed an admission crisis for the last three years. While the HSC result went upto 85% and above, there are not sufficient seats for the students here,” the official added.
 
 “After the proposal gets a final nod from the government, which will be announced in the month of June or July this year. Further again these proposals will have to get a nod from the academic council of SUK and then only, the admissions can be allotted to those courses or seats,”he added.
 
 
