NEW DELHI: That conman Anil Aggarwal could trap so many people across the country for so long has surprised crime branch officers. In fact, he had almost given the cops the slip on Monday by posing as a  . 

 Police have seized visiting cards from him that said he was a special correspondent. Whenever in trouble, he would pretend to be an undercover reporter and get away. That’s how he tried to get away this time too. But the police were prepared this time. 
 
 Going by the number of complaints against him, Aggarwal is estimated to have duped around a dozen IAS officers across the country. There are several complaints lodged against his company at different police stations in Delhi and elsewhere. 
 
 At present, the crime branch has been contacting the victims and those that have lodged complaints against the firm. They have also urged people to come forward with their cases. 
 
 Investigation has also revealed that Aggarwal had floated another firm in the name of education council, said DCP (crime) Madhur Verma. Details regarding the same are being obtained. The man operated half a dozen accounts and none of them were in his name. The details of these accounts that are in the name of his wife, servant etc are being obtained. 
 
  Explaining the modus operandi of the gang, police said Aggarwal would first get officers to sign up for an official trip. Once that was sanctioned, the gang would try to convince the officers to rope in their families by paying extra. 
 
 After taking the money, the accused would disappear. Many of the victims never complained to the police as the gang members had threatened them of terrible consequences such as departmental action. In the case of fraud with UPERC, the gang had been blackmailing the officials, claiming that a no-objection certificate issued by the UP government was forged. 
 
 The accused also complained to CBI, vigilance and other departments, hoping that UPERC officials would take back the complaint. Aggarwal would be produced in court on Tuesday and the police would ask for his remand. 
 
