NEW DELHI: To “streamline traffic” and conduct checking of vehicles without any hindrance, the south district police has decided to block key stretches round the clock. However, this step, which has been taken without giving prior warning, has been forcing people to take detours and added extra miles to their daily commute.

 Apart from wastage of time, this has not only led to confusion among motorists, but also poses a security risk for women driving late at night.
 
 While a section of the critical Vivekanand Marg (near RK Puram) has been closed at night to prevent trucks from reaching Ring Road, the stretch in front of Grand Hotel remains barricaded through the day. This is one of the arterial roads taken by residents to reach Vasant Kunj.
 
 “We used to take this route to reach the C-5 and C-9 Blocks to avoid driving all the way towards Masoodpur and taking a turn. These barricades have created a lot of hassles, especially if someone is travelling in a cab,” said Vinod Panth, chairman of Federation of RWAs of Vasant Kunj.
 
 Also, both north and southbound vehicles are forced to travel on one carriageway, leading to snarls on weekends.
 
 Pickets are usually seen on Vivekanand Marg and   Marg, but the numbers go up if there is a specific alert. The numbers of barricades were doubled in south Delhi after various incidents of snatching and robbery were reported in the past few weeks. Teams from PCR, traffic police and specialised units are also posted at the barricades for conducting checks.
 
 Police said that they decided to close some roads around Vasant Kunj and R K Puram last year due to increase in the number of carjacking cases. “The objective is to reduce the number of exit routes as Vivekanand Marg and Nelson Mandela Marg are easy routes for criminals to escape towards Gurgaon and Faridabad. The inroads are barricaded to prevent criminals from sneaking past the checkposts,” said DCP (south) Ishwar Singh.
 
 Residents, however, said that this kind of policing is in conflict with their right to move freely. “A few days ago, when I was returning from New Delhi railway station and was unaware of the closures at Vivekanand Marg, I had to turn through Africa Avenue. This resulted in an additional travel of five kilometres for me,” said Amit Agarwal, a member of Vasant Kunj Residents’ Welfare Association.
 
 Drivers unaware of the barricading on Vivekanand Marg often travel on the wrong carriageway to reach Africa Avenue thereby increasing the risk of a head-on collision.
 
 Police, however, said that they analyse traffic pressure every hour and request the district police to remove the barricades for some time to allow vehicles to move freely.
 
 
