NAGPUR: “Scientist and researchers are continuously trying to find suitable alternative fuels which are economical and environment friendly as present sources of energy like oil, coal, etc will be exhausted in the next 40 years,.” said GK Ghosal, former HoD, petrochemical department,   (LIT), Nagpur and petroleum expert and R & D consultant,  .

 He was speaking during the panel discussion on the topic ‘Recent advances in conventional and non-conventional energies’ on the first day of ‘Chemix 2017’, a two-day national conference on inter and intra-disciplinary blend of chemical engineering which was inaugurated on Saturday.
 
  The conference was organized by   (IIChE), Nagpur Regional Centre and IIChE Students Chapter, Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology (VNIT) at the chemical engineering department of the college. It concluded on Sunday. 
 
 Ved Prakash Mishra, chancellor of Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences, Karad was the chief guest. “There is a need to connect across the different disciplines of chemical engineering that would ultimately benefit the society. Simple five I’s — information, innovation, imagination, intuition and integration, can lead to the development in any field.”
 
 A souvenir of the conference was also released on the occasion.
 
 Ajai Nigam, former chief controller of explosives spoke on the topic ‘Challenges in production and safety in commercial and defence explosives’ and said that globally, the explosive industry is worth 10 billion US dollars. “India stands 8th in global manufacturing of explosives,” he said.
 
 P Sengupta, technical director- SKG Refractories Ltd, Butibori Nagpur, said that energy can also be produced by the Metro trains. “The metro moves with a very high speed and thus energy can be produced from the wind moving with high speed. If this succeeds, then India will become a developed country.”
 
 The concluding day of the conference had four sessions of paper presentations followed by the valedictory function. 
 
 
