CHENNAI/TRICHY: On a day when   launched   team `Tamil Thalaivas' in Chennai, fans in Trichy urged the 62-year-old actor to take the political plunge to clean the system.

 The actor, on his part, took a dig at the ruling dispensation, saying, “I am very happy the team name has the plural word `Thalaivas' (leaders) instead of the singular `Thalaiva' (leader) because recently it has become habit to speak in the singular.“ “If a sport that originated in some European island can spread far and wide, kabaddi, which we have been playing for thousands of years, can transcend international boundaries,“ he said.
 
 The brand ambassador for the team recalled how he was banned from playing kabaddi by a film director.“When I was playing kabaddi with stuntmen working with me in a film, I broke my nose and the next day's shoot had to be cancelled.“ Just as Rajinikanth did during his speech in May Kamal invoked the Tamil , culture of engaging men in contact sports to keep them fighting fit for any eventuality. “During peace time, the men would play sports like Eru Thazhuvuthal (jallikattu) to ensure they are always ready for war. They say that Olympics came into existence for the same reason,“ he said.
 
  national secretary  , meanwhile, deemed actor Kamal Haasan unfit to be a politician and accused him of hurting Hindu sentiments.
 
 “Actor Rajnikanth never hurt any religion by his views but Kamal Haasan's views hurting Hindu sentiments cannot be considered rational. People may admire them on screen but will not support if they enter politics,“ he said.
 
 “Kamal is not fit to become chief minister either, as he lacks courage and ability than fellow actor (Vijay).“
 
 “It is ironical that the actor who proclaims to be against corruption was visibly silent on the rampant corruption during   rule. He should first clarify to people he is not playing second fiddle to the DMK.DMK working president M K Stalin is using Kamal for his own political gains“, said Raja.
 
 On allegations on special treatment for Sasikala in a Bengaluru jail, he said transfer of the woman police officer was evidence of irregularities, adding that the BJP had demanded her reinstatement.
 
 More than 100 fans in Trichy , under the Kamal Nalpani Mandram, gathered at the head post office and sent requests to the actor by e-post, urging him to take the political plunge.
 
 “He did not indicate he will join politics. But we are demanding he take a decision because it's the right time,“ said N Sarathy of Srirangam, adding that the actor's fans across the state would support the decision.
 
 On Kamal's indication in his letter on Wednesday night, fans say he did not mean he will become chief minister.
 
 “He never said he wanted to be chief minister. But he was vocal against the corrupt system always. We feel this is the right time for him to join politics,“ said Mathew Ratchakan of lalgudi.
 
 
