NEW DELHI:   led   on Thursday told the Supreme Court that a situation of anarchy had arisen in the   with lieutenant governor overruling all its decision in violation of constitutional norms and pleaded the court to restore the supremacy of executive government in decision making process for Delhi.

 Challenging the order of Delhi high court which had held that primacy in administering the affairs rests with the LG and by extension, the Centre, senior advocate Gopal Subramaniam told a bench of Justices A K Sikri and R K Agrawal the order was a complete “mutilation” of Article 239 AA of the constitution granting special status to NCT.
 
 Expounding constitutional provisions and law which regulate Delhi, Subramaniam contended that the controversy was not about individuals who were holding posts but about supremacy of constitution. He said that an elected government should always have a primacy over a titular head of a state.
 
 “The Government of   (GNCTD) Act explicitly limits the discretion of LG and any delegation of power given to him by the President can be used only to matters falling outside the purview of Delhi’s legislature. The Act says these are matters on which the LG is required to act on the aid and advice of the  ,” he said.
 
 He said that under law Centre was allowed to deal with only issues relating to land, police and public order and the rest of the issues were to be handled by the NCT. “Since law rules out from area of LG’s discretion all matters that fall within the purview of the elected government, there is no occasion for him to differ or have an opinion on these matters. There is no other constitutional or political principle which gives him any role in these matters,” he said
 
 “By virtue of being an elected government, the Delhi cabinet is politically and constitutionally answerable to its electorate on all matters affecting them. Therefore even on reserved subjects, the representative government is enabled to raise a point of difference and have the same resolved by the President, even if cabinet advice on the reserved subjects is not binding,” he said.
 
 In its 194-page order, the HC had said it was of “the considered view that it is mandatory under the Constitutional scheme to communicate the decision of the Council of Ministers to LG even in relation to the matters in respect of which power to make laws has been conferred on the Legislative Assembly of NCTD.
 
 Questioning the constitutional validity of the verdict, Subramaniam said that the constitution did not contemplate that an elected government could be made subservient to either to LG or Centre.
 
 “The HC interpretation is contrary to the democratic spirit and the basic structure of the constitution. It is also contrary to the plain and conscious legislative scheme. Civil administration and services are within the province of the council of ministers and the LG cannot be given any over-riding discretion in these matters,” he said.
 
 
