AHMEDABAD: There is no end in sight to the monsoon fury which has unleashed a spate of death and destruction in state at least till  . Weatherman warned that very heavy to heavy rains are expected to ravage the state for at least next two days on Friday and Saturday. Six more bodies were recovered from Patan, Banaskantha and Mehsana taking total monsoon death toll to 129. 
 
  
 On Thursday, Ahmedabad was on monsoon's fury target as over 172 mm rain pummelled the city from 12 midnight to 4 pm, killing a five-year old boy in a wall collapse, crumbling a dozen-odd houses in walled city and prompting authorities to shift nearly 10,000 people to safety in the district. Ahmedabad collector Avantika Singh Aulakh said that schools and colleges have been ordered closed on Friday and Saturday in the wake heavy rain warning and high levels of water in Sabarmati. Dholka, which is facing a heavy influx of water, has been put on high alert.
  
  
 “A cyclonic circulation lying over   region is gaining strength due to depression lying over south east Uttar Pradesh. ,“ said Jayanta Sarkar, director, India Meteorological Department (IMD) Gujarat. A cyclonic circulation lying over Gujarat r gion is gaining strength due to depression lying over south east Uttar Pradesh. Under the influence of this system, the state is expected to get very heavy to heavy rains in entire Gujarat region,   and Kutch on Friday and Saturday as well. Respite from rain is likely from Sunday onward,“ said Jayanta Sarkar, director, IMD Gujarat.
  
  
 Sarkar said districts of Ahmedabad, Banaskantha, Patan, Mehsana, Aravalli and Kheda that have received extremely heavy rains will get more heavy spells in the next two days along with south Gujarat, Saurashtra and Kutch. Five more bodies were found in flood-ravaged Banaskantha and Patan districts while one was found in Mehsana on Thursday .
 
 Scores of cattle have also died with carcasses surfacing when waters receded in Dhanera and other villages of Banaskantha. Three bodies were found in Patan district which has been hit by floods, said collector Anand Patel. Principal revenue secretary Pankaj Kumar said 10 more NDRF teams were deployed in the state taking total number to 32.
 
