PATIALA: Following an application moved by the   (ED), a special court in Patiala sent  , one of the accused in the multi-crore synthetic drug racket case, to two-day police custody. ED had sought a seven-day remand for him. 

 Chahal was held on Monday from outside the MohaIi court complex where he had come to appear in the NDPS Act case registered against him. He had evaded multiple summons issued by ED, which is probing the money trail in the drug racket allegedly run by cop-turned-drug lord  . On Tuesday, Chahal was produced before special   judge S S Mann, who also holds the court for the Prevention of   Act (PMLA) 2002 cases.
 
 Appearing for ED in the Patiala court on Tuesday, special prosecutor Jagjitpal Singh Sarao said that investigation had revealed huge sums of money had been generated by the accused from drug sale it was invariably parked in movable and immovable assets. According to ED, Chahal, who owns a pharmaceutical unit in the Baddi area of Himachal Pradesh, is charged with having raised assets worth several crores. His brother Paramjit Singh Chahal is a co-accused in the case.
 
 The ED application mentioned he had invested in property and even bought a fleet of luxury cars with dubious souce of income. Some of the properties and vehicles were registered in his name, while others were registered under his firm Montek Biopharma at Baddi and Chahal Retreats. The properties in question were purchased in a span of just six years.
 
 As per the documents produced by ED, Chahal was booked by the Punjab Police after the authorities detected a multi-crore drug racket with national and international ramifications in which a number of FIRs under the NDPS Act, IPC and the Arms Act were registered between 2013 and 2014.
 
 Police also recovered huge numbers of heroin, metamphetamine (ice), pseudoephedrine, ephedrine, opium, intoxicant powder, monoethylmine, phenoxylate, hydrochloride and around Rs 1.92 crore besides, some foreign currency, pistols, bullets and luxury vehicles. Following the recoveries, the ED zonal office in Jalandhar filed an enforcement case information report (ECIR) in 2013 for investigating the violation of PMLA and incorporated eight FIRs registered by the police. Police had charge-sheeted 76 accused, including Chahal, in these cases.
 
