JAISALMER:   who was caught under Official Secret Act and sent to seven-day police remand was brought to Jaisalmer for spot verification on Sunday. 

 He was also taken to those outposts at the Indo-Pak border of which he had taken pictures and collected strategic information and had then sent them across the border. Till the news was filed, a few places that he had revealed during interrogation were being scanned by the police force.
 
 SP   confirming about Sadik being brought for spot verification on Sunday said a special team of Jaipur intelligence police led by deputy SP   reached Jaisalmer on Sunday with Sadik. He was taken to those border areas in Dhanana and Shahgarh for verification.
 
 Yadav said Sadik was taken to a few border outposts of BSF in Shahgarh area as he had sent photos of border pillar, fencing and important security arrangements of BSF to Pakistan. A police team also conducted search operations at a few places but there was no information as to whether the team got any clues or not.
 
 Sources said Sadik is a double agent as he was working for Indian security agencies and also working for Pak intelligence agency. This was the reason why he moved along the Indian border area easily and without any problem. But he has caused enough damage to the country by sending confidential information to Pakistan. Sadik has gone to Pakistan many times as he has relatives there.
 
 Sources said that in the last 7-8 months, four Pakistani spies were caught including   and Bariyam Khan. 
 
 Last month spies were caught from Nagaur and Barmer. There is heavy presence of ISI in border areas of Rajasthan and even today dozens of sleeper cells are active who send confidential information across the border. In last two years more than 15 Pak spies of sleeper cells have been caught from border districts of Jaisalmer, Barmer, Ganganagar and Bikaner.
 
 Meanwhile, large number of Indian SIM and mobile phones were recovered. Many important documents and photographs were also recovered from Sadik Khan. 
 
