NEW DELHI: Punsters would smile wryly about the stink in the municipal corporations of Delhi. They would, of course, be primarily alluding to the sanitation strikes that have left parts of the   reeking of garbage, but the everyday failures of the civic bodies to deal with waste wouldn’t be far from their minds either. 

 Despite hundreds of crores of rupees being spent on waste management, citizens continue to suffer irregular evacuation of garbage from colonies and public spaces. In Dwarka, supposed to be a model ward,   ironically removed the dustbins last year, forcing the people to dump their garbage at an unused plot. “Dwarka could have been an example for the rest of the city,” said Rejimon, a resident. “Even if there are no dhalaos around, the corporation could have at least initiated segregation of waste into organic, recyclable and combustible types.” He added that the RWAs didn’t have the money to set up a segregation system even if the people were amenable to adopting it. 
 
 Just as the south corporation did little to make life easier in Dwarka, most residents of east Delhi would shudder at their experience during the sanitation strikes. “But even without employees going on strike, we still don’t have a system that takes care of the waste,” grumbled Deepak Sahay at Mayur Vihar Phase I.
 
 The cash-strapped east municipal body struggles to collect and dump garbage. Lata Gupta, former standing committee member of the corporation, however, claimed, “We have commissioned a waste-to-energy plant at Ghazipur. Auto-tippers reach every colony for collection of garbage. We could have done better had the government supported us financially.”
 
 Not that availability of money helps matter. After the three municipalities received funds under Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, the north and south corporations spent some money on outsourcing the collection and transportation of municipal solid waste, but with scant monitoring and no proper garbage disposal system, the citizens hardly got a respite. 
 
 More than money, experts rue the lack of vision in the way the corporations handle waste in Delhi. The civic bodies in north and east Delhi remain unmoved by the mess. It is only the south corporation that has experimented a bit. As Subhash Arya, leader of the House in the south corporation, pointed out, “We deployed fixed compactors in the hope that this will help make SDMC areas dhalao-free. We have also set up treatment plants.”
 
 The Solid Waste Management Rules of 2016 mandate waste segregation at source in the capital. But this is easier said than done, and sanitation experts suggest RWAs could be roped in for the task. But the RWAs that submitted such proposals to the municipalities haven’t heard from the authorities since.
 
