PATNA: Blood is thicker than, well,  . Or so it seems with Bihar industries minister   defying deputy CM   and declaring a war on Sanjay Leela Bhansali, Tejashwi’s invite to the filmmaker to shoot his period drama ‘Padmavati’ in Bihar notwithstanding.
 
  Jai belongs to the JD (U) of which CM Nitish Kumar is the president. Tejashwi is in the RJD of which his father Lalu Prasad is the president.
  
  Day after Karni Sena activists man handled Bhansali on the sets of ‘Padmavati’ in Jaipur on January 27, Tejashwi condemned lawlesness in BJP-ruled Rajasthan and invited Bollywood to shoot movies in Bihar. Eminent writer   even thanked Tejashwi for his tweet, and recalled the warmth he received in Bihar during the shooting of ‘Half Girlfriend’, a movie adaptation of his novel by that name.
  
  But Jai is not impressed. “Not as a minister, but as a Kshatriya, I will oppose it tooth and nail. I will simply not allow the shoot to happen,” he told TOI on Saturday when asked what he meant when he told newsmen in Muzaffarpur on Friday, “Meri kaum baanjh nahi hai jo koi hamein sareaam beijjat kare aur hum tuktuk dekhte rahenge.”
  
  What will he do if the ‘Padmavati’ crew indeed came to Bihar? “I will write to the CM against it. “Queen   is well documented in history, which refers to her existence in 1302-1303,” he said and berated Bhansali for adding his “fictitious” story of Allaudin Khilji’s romance with the Khastriya queen in his film to make it saleable.
  
  Asked whether he supported Karni Sena’s vandalism, Jai said, “I do not support violence. But our protests would be very strong if Bhansali lands in Bihar to film his distorted story of Padmavati,” the minister said.
  
  According to Jai, books describe Padmavati as a revered and valiant figure in Rajput history, who married Raja Ratan Singh. He, however, could not name the history book in which he read this. “It can be verified from the internet. I also learned it from my ‘mamaji’ (maternal uncle) who is an academic,” he said.
  
  Inquiries revealed the academic he named as Gurucharan Singh is head of Hindi department in a college in Sasaram, a district town of Bihar. His cellphone could not be reached. “He is away in Mauritius,” said Jai, himself a science student. 
