Ask your mother what has been the toughest task she has ever faced in life and she would say, raising you as a kid! Indeed, there is no greater responsibility than being a mother, with no breaks, weekends, or retirement. And when one is a single mother, the challenges and responsibilities double. The stereotypical ‘single mom’ image we have might be that of a struggling woman who depends on the world for protection, but all that is passé. Here are a few single mothers who have faced the world independently and with courage, proving that being a single parent is not just about hardships but a journey towards empowerment for the woman, as an individual.

 
 
 
 
 
 Being a parent is by itself a challenging job. So one can imagine how it would be for a single parent. I have always wondered if there is something called easy parenting. But amidst all the difficulties, I have found unexplainable joy in being a mom. The bond that you build with your child at times becomes your reason for living. I put my heart and soul into raising my daughter and when I see her successful, I feel happy and fulfilled. She is the best part of my life and I consider it a great privilege to be her mother. However, we should always keep in mind that we shouldn’t ever try to fulfil our own dreams through our children. All we should do is teach them what is right and wrong. Teach them to be self-confident and to make their own decisions. They should be given their space and we should allow them to form their own perspectives. We should respect the child’s choices and wishes as well. 
 
 
 
 
 
 I have always been proud to say that I am a successful mother. And I believe that I was able to be one because I had a well-paying job. It helped me raise my children in a very respectable way. However I would like to say that the single moms face a lot of difficulties while bringing up their kids — be it from men, who are just waiting to take advantage of the situation, or from society, who consider themselves our guardians, but are of no real help. And about playing the dual role of mom and dad, I would like to quote my son, who told me once, “Amma, you should tell every woman not to sacrifice anything for the sake of her children. During our childhood, we need protection and care, and as we grow up all we need is happiness. It doesn’t matter if we get it from a dad or a mom, all we need is a provider.”
 It is true that children are your responsibility but doesn't mean you should give up your happiness for them. You will become a successful mom when you fulfil your dreams while bringing them up as well. We can make others happy only by being happy ourselves. In order to give support and confidence to our children to face the world, we need energy, which doesn’t come out of sacrifices but out of real contentment.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Being a single mom isn’t an easy journey but over the years I have realised that it is manageable. Thanks to my son Rishi, who is very understanding. Though he has his own opinions about everything, he also listens to reason, which really helps. I discuss everything with him and believe that being truthful about circumstances and situations works like magic. Initially, I used to feel guilty about leaving him and going for work. But he managed by himself and I saw him turning into a self-sufficient and independent child. He has grown up to be sensible and bold now. 
 
 
 
 
 I was mentally prepared to be a single mom almost eight years before I became one, as my husband was unwell. When he passed away, I was left with no money and a lot of responsibilities but at the same time, society doesn’t give freedom or support to single mothers. I had innumerable hurdles to cross before me. Back then, while I was concentrating on the business, my children stood by me as silent spectators, without giving me much trouble. My children were self-reliant by the age of five or six. I always wanted to sit with them and teach them things, but the situation wasn't favourable. They never had any high expectations from me but I made sure that I provided them whatever they wished for — especially when it came to studies. We mothers are just a vessel to transport another soul into this world. You don't have any say or right over them. They are on a journey of their own. Allow them to find their way. Don’t exert excessive control on them or have over expectations about them. Live and let live.
 
 
 
 
 
 Bringing up my children as a single mother was the most difficult task I have faced in my life. I had to be both dad and mom for them and take the reins of the entire family. It needs strong willpower as you don’t have anyone but yourself to rely one. I had no clue how to survive when I lost my husband and it was my children who gave me strength. It was with their timely support that I slowly picked up, through trial and error. Being a single parent can leave you lonely, depressed and also shattered, but I would say don’t ever give up and move ahead wisely and intelligently!
 
 
 
 
 
 
 I was brought up by a single mom. I never missed a father as I lost my dad when I was just two years old. But that wasn’t the case with my son. He was 19 when I lost my husband. Everything happened so quickly. When we got to know the news at the hospital, I was totally lost but all that I thought of at that moment was that I should stay strong and calm. I knew this would be a big challenge for me as my son would always look up to how I handled the situation to manage such crisis in his life in the future. We are always their role models. I don’t know where I mustered the courage from, but I just hugged him tight and made him feel that nothing has gone wrong, that everything will be fine. There started my journey as a single mom, and it has been twelve years now. I started off with a dance school and also supported my son. I believe that he got the courage to face the world on that day and as a mom, I won.
 
 I feel a child has to be raised to be an independent person. As a single mother, what I have realised is that a child has to be brought up to think right and live right. So, to a certain extent, you don't have to worry about the child. As long as we raise them to face the consequences of their actions, their choices won’t go wrong. 
 
