Exactly 70 years back, on July 22, 1947, Jawaharlal Nehru stepped up before the Constituent Assembly of India with two pieces of cloth. One was of khadi silk and the other of khadi cotton and both had the image of the proposed new   of India.
 
  “This   that I have to present to you is not, I hope and trust, a Flag of Empire, a Flag of Imperialism, a Flag of domination over anybody, but a Flag of freedom not only for ourselves, but a symbol of freedom to all people who may see it,” declaimed Nehru to cheers from the Constituent Assembly members.
  
  
  
  
 
  
  But was it to be the only Flag? As Assembly members delivered effusive speeches praising the new design, one did suggest that more   could be flown with equal pride alongside the new National Flag. Jaipal Singh was a distinguished sportsman, captain of the hockey team that captured gold at the 1928 Amsterdam Olympics, but even more he was a proud representative of the tribal communities of India.
  
  Singh was born in the Munda tribe in what is now Jharkhand — and as first president of the Jharkhand Party he is credited with formulating the demand for a separate state. Singh was somewhat a thorn in the side of the Constituent Assembly, repeatedly reminding it that his people were the original inhabitants of India and as such their customs — drinking liquor, for example — should not be curtailed by mainstream morality and concerns.
  
  
  
  
 
  
  Here, too, while welcoming the new flag, he pointed out that most tribes had their own flags which they proudly displayed at festivals: “I can assure you that that particular tribe would shed its last drop of blood in defending the honour of that flag. Hereafter, there will be two Flags, one Flag which has been here for the past six thousand years, and the other will be this National Flag which is the symbol of our freedom.”
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  As was often the case in the Assembly, Singh’s view was ignored, yet the issue of multiple flags didn’t go away. In 1952 when Nehru and Sheikh Abdullah attempted to solve the Kashmir problem by signing the Delhi agreement, guaranteeing its special constitutional status within India, one of the points agreed on was that Kashmir would have its own flag. This design emphasised the agrarian and Kashmiri nature of the state, with no religious symbols, but a plough and three lines representing the three regions of the state.
  
  
  
  
 
  
  Abdullah argued this was not a snub to the Indian flag. He was quoted in the Times of India (ToI), saying it was “both surprising and painful that some communal quarters should think that the people of Kashmir, who were inspired by the Indian National Flag to liberate themselves from the shackles of autocratic rule should ever think of disrespecting it”. But as a writer noted in ToI soon after, “at several functions only the state flag has been flown and that the use of the Indian flag is limited to special occasions”.
  
  
  
  
 
  
  Surprisingly, even Mahatma Gandhi seemed to have contradictory feelings. While he felt strongly that there should be only one National Flag, he was upset that the spinning charkha, originally on the flag, had been changed to the Ashoka chakra, a symbol with possibly military associations (especially when overenthusiastic commentators compared it to the Sudarshan chakra, the weapon of Indian mythology).
  
  
  
  
 
  
  In his July 22 speech, Nehru emphasised that the change was practical since it made the flag symmetrical and easier to reproduce, but also that the chakra represented both Ashoka and the spinning wheel. Gandhi, rather reluctantly, accepted this, but noted there was no problem flying the old flag as well. He also welcomed Pakistan’s flag being flown alongside India’s as a sign that the two countries could live in peace and even said he had no problems with the British flag: “If harm has been done to us by the British it has not been done by their flag and we must also note the virtues of the British…”
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  This universalist vision died with Gandhi and the next demands for flags came after the reorganisation of states. The yellow-and-red Karnataka flag at the heart of the current dispute was created in the 1960s by M Ramamurthy to symbolise pride in Kannada — but possibly also in response to challenges from two sides. In the North, there was the festering issue of Belgaum/Belgavi which was boosted by the creation of the Shiv Sena in Maharashtra and its resurrection of the Bhagwa, the saffron swallowtail pennant of the Marathas. Tensions in the city were routinely exacerbated by the flying of their flags.
  
  To the south of Karnataka, there was the assertive Dravidian nationalism of Tamil Nadu, and it cannot have helped Kannada pride that this grabbed the issue of separate state flags. The anti-Hindi agitation of the early 1960s brought the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) to power in 1967 and led to assurances from the Central government that English would continue to be used alongside Hindi, and that the three-language formula would be used in schools.
  
  Student activists in Tamil Nadu felt this was inadequate since there was scope of Hindi being imposed over time and, in 1968, some decided to revive the pressure by raising a “Free Tamil Nad” flag. The DMK chief minister CN Annadurai paid little attention to this — although he had been a proponent of an independent Dravida Nadu in the past, he had come to realise Tamil aspirations were best met within an Indian national framework. But he died in 1969 and his successor M   decided to support the state flag demand.
  
  
 
  Karunanidhi was careful not to position this in separatist terms. The proposed Tamil Nadu flag had the Indian flag in one quarter while the main space featured a temple gopuram as a symbol of Tamil culture. Perhaps this was why prime minister Indira Gandhi was initially cautious in her reaction. In a debate in Parliament on August 20, 1970, she noted that American states all had their own flags and that Indian states had their own emblems. She felt it was worth consulting all the chief ministers on this issue.
  
  
  
  
 
  
  Unfortunately, many in the Lok Sabha were in no mood to listen to this measured view. Pro-Hindi parties like the Jan Sangh, the precursor to the BJP, were angry about concessions to Tamil interests and the PM’s opponents in breakaway Congress factions were also looking for ways to make her look weak. Wrapping themselves up in patriotism, members like NPC Naidu of the Congress (O) protested that any concessions could have a chain effect: “Tomorrow in some other states, any party in power might propose a sickle and hammer, yet another state a Chinese or a Russian flag…”
  
  Views like this show how political expediency passing as patriotism has prevented any rational discussion of the real issue underlying state flags — the position of the states as viable and functionally independent, but not separate, parts of the Indian federal structure. Alleging separatism at any sign of the states asserting their identities is a convenient way for the Centre to get out of any real discussion on devolving rights. (It’s fair to note this dynamic works within states too. The Kannada flag movement should not, for example, object to the Kodava region waving proudly its own swordand-rifle-bedecked flag.)
  
  
 
  The roots of this attitude go deep and, as it happens, one of the first signs of its manifestation took place before Independence in what is now Karnataka, but was then the princely state of Mysore. This was an incident in 1938 that threatened to blow up into a major issue for the Congress, before being defused by pragmatism on the part of Gandhi and Sardar Patel — but with hints left at a lasting problem, of which the current Karnataka flag issue is just the latest manifestation. In the Independence movement, the princely states posed a problem for the Congress. They were too numerous and some too large to be ignored.
  
  Their general position as supporters of the British Raj and the anachronistic principle of monarchic rule were red rags to the radical elements in the Congress. At the same time, several rulers were significant supporters of the Congress, providing funds both directly and indirectly (many young nationalists had gone abroad to study with princely sponsorship).
  
  Gandhi, whose family roots were in service to the princely states of Kathiawar, was well aware of the huge respect the princes commanded at a local level. So he cautioned the Congress to be careful. In British India, it was easy to organise demonstrations against the authorities, but in the states they had to be careful to keep a balance. Occasionally, this didn’t work and often the results weren’t good for the Congress, for example in the Rajkot satyagraha of 1939 which Gandhi acknowledged as one of his few real failures.
  
  The Mysore issue took place the year before. The Congress had been conducting flag satyagrahas since 1923 in Nagpur by raising the nationalist flag as a way to conduct civil disobedience. But when activists in Mysore tried this in 1938, dewan Sir Mirza Ismail attacked this as disrespect for the maharajah as represented by the state flag of Mysore. Matters escalated when a rally at Viduraswatham village on April 25 became unruly and was met with firing that left between 10 and 32 dead and many more injured.
  
  Gandhi and Patel immediately realised the gravity of the situation. Congress activists were outraged, but Mysore state (and Sir Mirza personally) was too important and respected to be attacked without problems. Sir Mirza too realised the danger in letting matters get worse, and both sides worked out a compromise that would free political prisoners, set up an inquiry into the firings and, above all, agree on parity for the flags. The state declared that the Mysore flag, Congress flag and even the British flag could all fly together.
  
  Patel told Congress workers that the issue of the states would be decided after Independence, but till then “you should do nothing to bring the Congress flag into conflict with the state or create an impression of disloyalty to the state flag. You should respect both”. Sadly, this spirit did not last post Independence and regional symbols like the Mysore state flag were suppressed in favour of only the National Flag.
  
  The regional resentments this created, from the time of conversion of Mysore into Karnataka to the current drama over the Karnataka flag, shows how a little more respect from the Centre and less zeal in pushing homogenising national agendas like Hindi imposition, could have prevented so many unnecessary disputes. 
