PUNE: It is a faulty   system and methodology that makes   one of the top cleanest city in India on paper, experts have said.

 To drive home their point, they drew attention to the ground reality where the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has not been able to resolve the city’s garbage mess. 
 
 Pune finished 13th in the clean-city race as per the Swachh Survekshan, 2017 conducted by the Centre. However, an analysis by the New Delhi-based Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) states that cities such as Pune with   cleanliness ranking are actually focussing on collection of unsegregated waste and transporting those to landfills with a minimum quantum of waste being actually processed. 
 
 Interestingly, cities such as Panjim and Alapuzha advocating for a decentralised waste management based on household-level segregation, recycle and reuse were pushed back in the ranking system. Alappuzha (Kerala) has a decentralised model for waste management and was ranked 380 in the survey. On the other hand, the   of Panjim city with its five-point segregation system was 90. 
 
 On the contrary, a “cleaner” Pune is dumping its unsegregated waste at Uruli Devachi, prompting its villagers to launch an agitation against the practice.
 
 CSE’s analysis shows that Indore, which notched the first slot of the clean cities in the central survey, is at present struggling hard to manage its waste. Similarly, Surat (ranked 4th) is dumping 1,600 tonnes of unsegregated garbage in a landfill site daily. And that too without processing. 
 
 “The Survekshan methodology needs a serious re-look, as it is rewarding cities with environmentally unsustainable practices and discouraging cities working towards a behaviour change and local solutions,” said Chandra Bhushan, deputy director general, CSE. 
 
 Next year, the ambit of the survey will increase to 4,041 statutory towns and cities of the country. The methodology of assessment needs to put in place more points for segregation and decentralised treatment. “Solid waste management should move towards behaviour change and local solutions. It is only then that we can achieve the Clean India goal,” said Sunita Narain, director general, CSE.
 
 Swati Sambyal, a waste management expert, said, “Both Alappuzha and Panjim have no landfill sites or waste-to-energy incineration plants. Most of their waste is converted into compost or biogas. Inorganic wastes such as plastic, glass, metals and papers are sent for recycling. These cities make money from solid wastes, rather than spending crores on collecting and transporting wastes to landfills. Still, Swachh Survekshan 2017 has not given any recognition to these cities.” 
 
 Swachh Survekshan, 2017 aimed at capturing the outcomes on the ground of the ongoing efforts to make urban areas open defecation free and to improve door-to-door collection, processing and disposal of municipal solid waste. Of the total score of 2,000, 900 marks were assigned for performance in respect of open defecation free and solid waste management, 600 for citizen’ feedback and 500 marks for independent observation.
 
 “Pune city fulfilled most of the criteria. We will try to put in more efforts to improve our ranking,” said Suresh Jagtap, head of the Pune Municipal Corporation’s solid waste department.
 
