We usually tend to associate   with the image of men with greying hair taking leisurely strolls on the course while their caddies follow after. But 12-year-old Noida boy   is out to change that image. Last month, Arjun finished first in the under-12 category of the Kids’ Golf World Championship, becoming the first Indian to win the tournament. The little   says that he now aims to go professional, and become the number one golfer in the world – something no Indian has achieved till date.

 Arjun beat kids from 21 countries at the tournament, held in mid-December in Malaysia, to become the best player in the world in his age group. Since returning to Noida, the golfer has been busy with media interactions and felicitations – which he isn’t too pleased about. “Practice gets affected by all this. I haven’t been out on the course properly since I got back,” he says. 
 
 But while all the attention might have irked Arjun, his family seems to be all for it. “A few days ago, Arjun was practising at the range when Kapil Dev walked up to him, and congratulated him for his win. Kapil paaji is my childhood hero, and him appreciating my son was overwhelming. Iski wajah se hum bhi un logon se mil rahe hain jinse khud kabhi na mil paate,” says Arjun’s father, Bobby Bhati.
 
 Arjun was eight years old when he first developed an interest in golf. The Greater Noida resident tells us, “I could see the golf course from my house, and I used to watch players practise from my balcony. I was so captivated by it that I told my father that I too wanted to play. He bought me a golf kit, and I started practising.” Arjun has been coached by his caddy Gyan, for over three years from now, and has also received coaching from local coach Monish Bindra. Since he started playing, Arjun has won 69 tournaments so far; the Kids’ Golf World Championship is the latest of those triumphs.
 
 Even though, he has won scores of tournaments in a short span of time, it hasn’t been all smooth sailing for the 12-year-old. There were times when his family wanted him to quit due to how expensive golf is as a sport. Arjun tells us, “In 2015, my father asked me to stop playing golf for a few years because it was becoming financially difficult for him to support my passion. I simply told him that if I fail to finish in the top three in my next three tournaments, I would give up on the game. As it happened, I won the next three events, and he never asked me to give up the sport again.”
 
 Constant travelling for tourneys means that Arjun, who studies in Class VII at Greater Valley School in Greater Noida, misses out on a lot of his classes. But his teachers have found a way around that problem. He says, “My teachers have created a Whatsapp group, and whenever I miss a lesson, they take pictures and share it on that group. My school and my teachers have been very supportive.”
 
 Having conquered the junior circuit, Arjun now wants to turn into a professional. “I want to go professional as soon as I’m confident enough to play with seniors,” he says, adding, “My aim would be to become the first Indian to get the world number one ranking in golf.” Another thing that drives Arjun to play professionally is golf’s inclusion in the Olympics. He says, “It’s great motivation. Now, a golfer like me can play in the Olympics. I want to win a gold for my country, someday.”
 
 
 
