Bengaluru-based 1Fret Away started off as a four-piece band in 2007 and now, 10 years later, the band is planning a nationwide tour to celebrate this milestone. In addition to this, the band is also releasing an album later this year. The band comprises Vinay Balodi (drums, percussion), Kanya Murali (drums and session vocals), Sameer Murali (bass), Amogh Matt (lead guitar) and Arwen Magma (lead vocals and rhythm guitars). We caught up with the members of 1Fret Away to find out their success mantra, how they deal with challenges and their upcoming plans…

 
 
 Arwen, lead vocalist, says that the band has undergone a sea of change since the time of its inception. “We started off as a four-piece band and initially did not know which genre we would play. We were experimenting a lot in terms of  . I am a self-taught artiste and I used to listen to a lot of Nirvana, Green Day and such. We tried listening to other genres like punk   and tried imbibing it in our music. However, with all the experiments we realized that alternate/ post-grunge rock was best suited for us,” he says.
 
 Although the band has performed covers of many pop artistes, they do so in their own way. “We interpret new and popular songs, but we do so in our own style and that has worked for us. The audience can connect with the popular song, but when they hear a   version, it clicks. By doing so, we’ve stuck to our genre and cater to the audience as well,” says Amogh. Where does the band draw its inspiration from? “Our inspiration comes from different channels. All of us listen to different artistes and bands. But we all bring that together and that becomes the band’s inspiration,” says Amogh.
 
 
 
 So, how did the band manage to pull through 10 years? “Oh, we’ve faced so many challenges. Right from arranging the equipment to the band members, we’ve seen it all. One of the biggest challenges was the genre itself. The city is known as a metal hub; grunge or progressive rock is not something everyone liked. So, we had to convert pop songs and play it in our own style, in addition to our own compositions,” says Arwen. The band has also performed Hindi numbers but grunge style, adds Arwen. “We also had members from other band playing for us. And then there is the issue with venues. We didn’t have a lot of venues that would cater to our genre. I realized that playing commercial music gets you more recognition,” he adds.
 
 But what has worked for them is that they never wanted to disband 1Fret Away. “This band is like my baby. It’s my first homegrown project. For Amogh, this band is his heart and soul. We are all possessive about it. Although over the years we’ve had members come and go, we have never wanted to disband it,” adds Arwen.
 
 
 
 In order to celebrate their 10-year journey, the band has a 10-city tour on its agenda. “Our tour is about our music and genre. It’s more like a grunge tribute tour and we plan to have it in two phases. We will be playing our own compositions as well as songs from artistes and bands that have inspired us. We plan to tour in Bengaluru, Mysuru, Chennai, Hyderabad, Goa, Mumbai, Pune, Delhi and North East. We are also releasing a 10-song LP album in an effort to take our music to the masses,” Arwen sums up.
 
 
