AHMEDABAD:   (ATS) late on Tuesday night arrested three persons including Suresh Pillai of Thane, a   who works for  . They were arrested in connection with a gun attack on Borsad’s independent councillor, Pragnesh Patel. ATS is looking for three pistols – one of which was used to fire on Pragnesh.

 ATS sources said that Chandresh Patel, son of Shanta Patel, who’d lost the Nagarpalika seat to Pragnesh, had arranged the attack. Chandresh, who runs a cable business in Borsad, fled abroad before the attempt on Pragnesh’s life. Cops are hunting for three more accused in the case.
 
 “Chandresh’s friend, Shyamgiri Goswami, who at present is in hospital for treatment, will soon be arrested in the case,” said an ATS official.
 
 According to Himanshu Shukla, SP, ATS, apart from Pillai they have arrested Sagir Momin of Surat and Ghanshyamgiri Goswami of Borsad. “While Momin drove the bike, Pillai shot thrice at Pragnesh on the morning of January 13. Ghanshyam had given shelter to Pillai and Momin in Borsad,” said Shukla. ATS sources confirmed that Pujari had also directed his sharpshooter to kill a big businessman in Surat, who had refused to pay protection money. “We contacted Surat police after Pillai, who has a criminal record both in Mumbai and Gujarat, revealed Pujari’s orders,” said an ATS official. “Chandresh and Pragnesh had a fight in December 2016 in which Pragnesh had assaulted Chandresh. A case was lodged against Pragnesh in Borsad. This could have precipitated the revenge attack on Pragnesh,” said an ATS official.
 
 To even the score, Chandresh contacted Suresh Anna – an NDPS accused – who took him to Thane to meet Pillai. “Pillai was already in contact with Ravi Pujari, who used to send money to Pillai through hawala. However, after demonetization, Pujari was unable to send cash and had also lost contact with Pillai,” said an ATS official.
 
 Through Anna, Chandresh and his friend, Shyamgiri Goswami, went to Mumbai and met Pillai. “Pillai was offered Rs 25 lakh to kill Pragnesh. Pillai then called in Momin and arrived at Ahmedabad by train on January 3,” said an ATS source.
 
 “They stayed at Ghanshyam’s house and recced Pragnesh’s route. Eventually, they tried to kill Pragnesh on January 13. They then changed their clothes at Ghanshyam’s house,” added the source.
 
 “Momin fled to Surat and Pillai to Thane,” he added.
 
 ATS officials said that after the shooting, Pujari had called up Pillai. “Pujari told Pillai not to worry as he would be taking responsibility for the shooting. We are gathering evidence of direct involvement of Pujari in the crime,” said an ATS source.
 
 
