NEW DELHI: The next time you are stuck in a traffic jam on Mathura Road or Outer Ring Road, you will have real-time information on the extent of congestion on   installed by the traffic police. Called a variable messaging system (VMS), these boards are being placed at 50 locations near congestion-prone intersections, at arterial roads and before flyovers that witness large traffic volumes.

 The police have tested 22 such displays in south and central Delhi that became functional from Monday. The rest will be operational within a fortnight, said  , joint commissioner of police (traffic). “A total of 50 VMSs would be installed on a hundred stretches across the city, if these are successful,” she said.
 
 These boards have been installed on Mathura Road, Sardar Patel Marg, Rao Tula Ram Marg, Dwarka Link Road, IGI Airport Road, Ring Road (near Moolchand flyover) and on stretches of NH8 and NH24.
 
 The boards come in two sizes — 5m x2m and 3m x1.5m — and are installed across the road or on poles on sidewalks. Text messages in red will alert commuters about congestion and those in green will suggest a jam-free journey that the motorists can make.
 
 To   drivers in advance, the boards have been installed at spots where even if someone slows down to read the overhead message, it is unlikely to cause any hindrance to traffic.
 
 The cops sending out traffic alerts for long on Twitter and Facebook will have access to the VMS controls and can link them up with the social networking sites. A team at the traffic police headquarters in Todapur will feed updates to the displays through a 3G communication network.
 
 “DMRC and PWD have been asked to let the traffic police know about their construction and repair projects or any new pothole that may have sprung up on a particular stretch. At night, when the traffic volume shrinks, the boards will flash messages on road safety,” said Bhatnagar.
 
 The VMS is a part of the long-pending integrated traffic management system that has been pending for the past seven years. Though the traffic police have come up with plans to install independent systems which can be integrated with the final system later, not much can be seen on the ground.
 
 According to plan, the traffic police was provided with smart cameras, equipment and signalling systems that will be controlled by an automated system which will ultimately remove traffic policeman from roads. Traffic officials say that apart from a few trial projects, nothing much has moved in all these years.
 
 
