RANCHI: Days after the   government’s crack down on illegal slaughter houses in Uttar Pradesh, the BJP-ruled government in Jharkhand decided to ban all illegal slaughter houses in the state on Monday. The slaughter houses were given 72 hours to shut their illegal businesses if they failed to obtain licence from relevant authorities.

 SKG Rahate, principal secretary, home, issued an order to all deputy commissioners and SPs along with authorities of municipal corporations, municipalities and notified area committees to ensure that the closure was effected immediately.
 
 The  , that issues licences to 62 abattoirs across the country, has not issued the same to even one unit in the state. None of the country’s 75 abattoirs-cum-meat processing plants or 34 approved meat processing units have permission from the Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority are in Jharkhand. Ranchi Municipal Corporation has given licenses to a few slaughterhouses, and they are likely to be unaffected by the ban. 
 
 In the order, Rahate designated sub-divisional officers as nodal officers to ensure that all illegal abattoirs were shut.
 
 “Keeping in view safety and health of the general public, steps may immediately be taken for closure of illegal slaughter houses. The principal secretary said that proper rules and regulations are already in place, issued by the department of animal husbandry, municipal bodies and health department,” the order stated.
 
 With the issuance of the order, people engaged in the sale of goat meat or chicken will have to obtain licences from municipal bodies while those involved in slaughter of cows and buffaloes would have to close their “illegal” business.
 
 In 2004-05, the Jharkhand government had banned slaughter of cow and buffalo, violation of which invited imprisonment up to 10 years and a fine of Rs 10,000.
 
 Ranchi Municipal Corporation deputy mayor   said most abattoirs didn’t have a valid licence, and killing, selling or possessing cow meat was done in violation of the law. “It is our duty to ensure that the government order is implemented within the given timeframe,” he said.
 
 
