HYDERABAD: While the Centre has proposed increasing the premium for third-party  , the menace of   remains a big worry in the city .
Traffic cops say they have   for the offence and a whopping 4,500 vehicles were seized in the city over the last two months for  . Authorities estimate that nearly 45 percent of the vehicles plying on city roads remain uninsured. `Plying without insurance' is not only a mere violation of traffic rules but can upset the entire financial status of an individual who gets involved in an accident situation.
 
 To start with, having vehicle insurance is mandatory as per law. At the least a third-party insurance (covered expenses for damages to other person in case of an accident) is mandatory . In case of a fatal accident or a major accident resulting in grievous injuries, the liability on the person to pay turns out to be hu ge. From paying for medical expenses to paying for damage to the other vehicle and paying compensation can cost a few lakhs. It can sometimes even go up to `1 crore as observed in a few cases, says experts. “The amount that has to be paid depends on calculations based on the age, future prospects, number of dependents and the income of the victim. In a recent case in Mumbai, it had crossed the `1crore mark. If the victim is an old person or even a beggar, the compensation can be around `10 lakh, while it can touch `1 crore easily if the victim is young,“ explained  , road safety expert and founder Safe Drive India.
 
 The threat of being caught in a financial mess post an accident has increased manifold, given the number of accidents being recorded yearly . In the year 2015, 2,485 accidents were recorded in Telangana. The number went up to 2,535 accidents in the year 2016. In case of second and third hand vehicles, not having an insurance cover is almost double. “In case of new cars, buyers usually opt for first-party insurance as it covers vehicle damages as well as third-party liability,“ added Joint Transport Commissioner, Hyderabad, J Panduranga Naik.
 
