GURUGRAM: The murder of Pradhyumn Thakur has come as a wake-up call for Gurgaon’s schools. TOI spoke with some of the city’s school principals on the measures they are taking to ensure safety of their students.

 Certainly, for any school worth its salt, there can never be any compromise on the safety and security of its students. “It’s the topmost priority, because only in a safe and secure environment can your child be educated,” Dr (Cmdr.) Kartikay Saini, chairman,  , told TOI.
 
 Saini is happy to have his school subject to the scrutiny of an independent audit. Meanwhile, the   cameras (76 in all) and GPS in all Scottish High’s buses is checked twice every week to see if all is in working order.
 
 And safety is similarly non-negotiable for Ridge Valley School. “We ensure that our children are under surveillance all the time, and their safety and security is of utmost priority to us,” insists Gunit Ohri, principal, Ridge Valley.
 
 At Shiv Nadar, too, no chances are taken. 
 
 “We have spent time, effort and resources to get all systems and processes in place to ensure a safe school environment. These include police verification of every contractual support staff, restricted access to student areas for non-teaching staff, CCTV cameras at all focal points in the school, with regular monitoring to ensure optimal working condition,” said Monica Sagar, principal,  , Gurgaon.
 
 There’s also CCTV surveillance at Ridge Valley, on all floors and in each corridor, as well as on the school grounds. “There is a dedicated team of staff posted outside washrooms. Furthermore, there are floor-in-charges to cover floors during dispersal and when the students come in,” adds Ohri.
 
 Saini, however, feels the onus should be on schools to do more to comply with rules and regulations. 
 
 “If I make my school policy, or my rules and regulations, they should be exactly equal to and in tandem with the regulations enforced by the authority. My quality should be minimum at that standard – and more.”
 
 Suncity, for example, already has 200 CCTV cameras, and the school building’s every floor has lady guards to keep check. There is also GPS in the school. Still,   is leaving no stone unturned to guarantee its students’ safety 
 
 “In our ‘Cradle to Crayons’ playschool, we have deployed a one-of-its-kind safety indoor tracking system. This system uses Bluetooth devices within the school premises to provide near real-time information to parents. It uses GPS devices in buses to track kids while they are on their way to school and back, and shows the location live to the parents on their phone apps, on a map,” Rupa Chakravarty, principal, Suncity School, told TOI.
 
 Delhi Public School, Gurgaon, has had separate toilets for support staff for several years. 
 
 “We added CCTV cameras outside the toilets and in all corridors two years back. After this terrible incident, we have put an additional female attendant in front of all toilets. And children have been told to go to the toilet, tuck shop and medical room in twos,” shared Aditi Misra, principal, DPS-Gurgaon.
 
 Meanwhile, at Shiv Nadar, junior students are always accompanied by one of their teachers, or the nannies, when they leave the classroom to go to the washroom. “Besides, we also educate our children on topics like good touch and bad touch, cyber safety, bullying etc.,” added Sagar.
 
 So when it comes to the safety of schoolchildren, it’s always, to use a cliché, better to be safe than sorry.
 
 
