PUNE: Three more persons succumbed to   at different hospitals in the city in the past two days, taking the toll to 74 so far this year.

 The civic health officials confirmed the deaths on Monday. The condition of another 13 patients down with swine flu is critical. They have been put on ventilator support at different hospitals in the city.
 
 A 53-year-old man of Loni Khurd village (Vijapur taluka) in Aurangabad district developed influenza-like illness on July 23. A   and hypertension, he initially sought medical care from a neighbourhood doctor and later got admitted to a hospital in Aurangabad . It referred him to Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital on July 8. He died of swine flu induced acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and multi-organ failure around 3.30pm on July 22.
 
 Another victim, a 52-year-old resident of  , developed dry cough and later had breathlessness from July 12. He consulted a physician and got admitted to a neighbouring hospital when his condition worsened. He was referred to Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital on July 14.
 
 The man was recently diagnosed with diabetes. His condition later worsened. He developed ARDS and multi-organ failure and died around 8.50am on July 24.
 
 Another 46-year-old woman, a resident of Utroli (Bhor) village in Pune district, developed cough, weakness and loose motions from July 13. She did not seek medical care for five days. Then she took treatment from a neighbourhood doctor. Later, she was admitted to Ratna hospital in the city on July 20.
 
 She was shifted to Joshi hospital near   the same day for better medical care. The woman was recently diagnosed with diabetes. She developed bilateral viral pneumonitis with ARDS and died around 7.35am on July 23.
 
 Over 200 people have died of swine flu in the state this year in seven months, much higher compared to the last year’s toll. Health officials underline vaccination as a tool for prevention. Many people had got vaccinated in 2015 when there was an outbreak, bringing down the fatality the next year.
 
 
