NEW DELHI:   broke the jinx to down Chou Tien Chen in a lopsided men's singles final and win maiden   title in his third attempt on Sunday. The world no 4 Axelsen was in imperious form as he swept aside Chen 21-13, 21-10 in 36 minutes to clinch the title amidst a packed   on Sunday. 
 
 The event was played in the national capital but Axelsen might as well have been playing in Denmark considering the partisan crowd which breathlessly cheered for him all through, backing him when trailing and keeping his spirits high when he hurt his knee in the first game forcing him to take a medical time-out. But it was his day and he seemed intent on clinching the title that his so frustratingly eluded him in the past two years. 
  
 The scoreline clearly indicates how dominant Axelsen was on Sunday but the initial exchanges gave hopes of a thriller with the two opponents trading the lead. Chen, though had lost the first game when he attempted to engage Axelsen in a netgame but the strapping Dane was up for the challenge and a smash help him draw level at 5-5. From then onwards it was a one-way traffic. A deadly cocktail of powerful smashes and deft lifts forced Chen on the backfoot. With a beautifully executed net lift, Axelsen took a formidable lead of 19-12. An error from Chen, who played it wide, allowed Axelsen to pocket the game 21-13. 
  
 Chen would like to forget the second game as he had no answers to the tall Dane's leaping smashes and add to it a truckload of errors as he failed to land his returns inside the court. Consequently, Axelsen ran away with the game, this time, winning with even a better scoreline of 21-10 and lifted his second Super Series title. 
  
 In the mixed-doubles final, the defending champions China's Lu Kai/Huang Yaqiong beat compatriots Zheng Siwei/Chen Qingchen 22-24, 21-14, 21-17 to win 2nd consecutive India Open Super Series mixed doubles title. In an intensely fought final, the second seed pair of Kai/Yaqiong were initially trailing 4-7 in the first game but crawled back to draw level at 12-12. To the naked eyes, the lightning exchange seemed, at times, a blur. 
  
 At 22-all, Zheng, who won the All England 2017 mixed doubles title with Chen, unfurled a powerful smash and then sealed the game with another brilliant shot. The crowd gave its approval. The Zheng/Chen lost their edge in the second game, allowing the second seed pair of Kai/Yaqiong to open a 5-1 lead. They never came close to drawing level and surrendered rather meekly at 14-21. The decider was, again evenly matched but Kai/Yaqiong held their nerves to maintain the lead and seal it 21-17 even though their opponent kept drawing parity. 
  
 The first final of the day, an all-Japanese affair, was a women's doubles match between Shiho Tanaka/Koharu Yonemoto and Naoko Fukuman/Kurumi Yonao. The seventh seed pair of Tanaka/Yonemoto beat Fukuman/Yonao in three games 16-21, 21-19, 21-10 to win the title. This is their maiden Super Series title together.
 
