VISAKHAPATNAM: The   (VPT) is likely to receive a   in the next couple of months to monitor   coming in and moving out of the major port. 

 VPT sources said that the mobile container scanner will assist the customs and port officials in scanning cargo and to detect any irregularities in shipments. Sources said initially, one mobile container scanner will be provided to VPT and subsequently a decision may be taken on additional scanners depending on the increase in  .
 
 “The tender is being issued by the   for all the ports in the country. We have been asked to prepare the ground work necessary for placing the mobile container scanners in our port. Once the container passes through these scanners, it will help in direct port delivery. This means that the containers need not have to go through the container freight stations where the customs officials will conduct random checks by opening the containers. Instead, the mobile container scanners will do the job without opening the containers,” said a senior VPT official.
 
 Another VPT official confirmed the development and said that the container scanners are necessary in the current situation as some of the countries don’t accept imports without random checking. “Also, from April onwards all containers which are involved in transporting scrap must be subjected to mobile scanners,” the VPT official added.
 
 An industry source familiar with the development said, “The container scanner will also prevent unauthorised goods entering into the port. This will also help revenue intelligence to keep a check on whether an goods are declared wrongly during their entry or exit from the country.” He said, “This will also fasten the process of checks on containers.” 
 
 According to VPT sources, the major port is already been equipped with baggage scanners similar to those in airports to check the luggage of all the crew signing in and off the ships arriving at the port. 
 
 At the same time, the major port has also put in place a radiological detection scanner to keep a tab on radioactive materials entering or leaving the port.
 
  Sources said the radiological detection had been put in place nearly a year ago and it is functioning from a gate on the East Quay. 
 
 
