RANCHI: The   of the state assembly, which was on Thursday adjourned sine die five days before schedule has set a bad precedent in ways more than one. 

 Four opposition legislators were suspended for the entire session for hurling chairs, throwing slippers and spraying foam at   during the winter session in November last year. 
 
 Though the speaker agreed in-principle to revoke the suspension a day later,   (JMM) legislators Amit Mahto, Paulus Soren, Shashibhushan Samad and Congress MLA Irfan Ansari's suspensions were lifted on Thursday, minutes before the house was adjourned indefinitely. The MLAs, however, had not tendered any apology to the speaker for their behaviour. 
 
 However, three Bills concerning establishment of separate private universities, VAT amendment Bill, state minorities commission amendment Bill and amendment bill for Jharkhand state universities were passed through voice vote amid protests by opposition against amendments to the   (CNT) Act and Santhal Paragana Tenancy Act. 
 
 Due to persistent disruptions by the opposition parties against amendments in the tenancy laws, little over 1,100 questions tabled by legislators for the Raghubar Das government remained unanswered after demonstrations on the floor washed out all the question hours. 
 
 The second day of the session was adjourned to offer condolences to Littipara legislator Anil Kumar Murmu, who died of a cardiac arrest on the first day of the session. JMM's continued protests against the amendments to the twin land laws disrupted debate on the Rs 75,673.42 crore estimated financial budget which was tabled by chief minister Raghubar Das on January 23. 
 
 JMM found itself isolated in the opposition camp as Congress and Jharkhand Vikas Morcha - Prajatantrik (JVM-P) claimed that the Das government worked the chaos to their advantage and took "unilateral decisions".
 
 "Several important matters pending debate went unattended. Assembly is the only place where the opposition can restrict the government but it did not happen this time," JVM-P's Poreiyahat legislator Pradeep Yadav said. 
 
 Congress legislator  , who was rooting for the house to function, called for a better conduct. "The MLAs represent their people and the state as a whole. They have a right to protest, but it was important to debate and criticise the government's mistakes," he said. 
 
 The JMM camp, however, defended itself. "The CNT and SPT Acts are the biggest issue in Jharkhand. It has created a state-wide unrest. Being the largest party in opposition, it is our duty to raise the issue. The protests became inevitable because the government remained adamant. It was unprecedented when assembly proceedings were on despite opposition MLAs protesting at the well. They showed that they do not care," JMM legislator Kunal Shadangi said.
 
