AURANGABAD: Leaders from  , NCP and other political parties came down heavily on the   led government in state and centre for their insensitivity towards farmers at the ongoing Sangharsh Yatra on Saturday.

 Several prominent leaders were present on the ocassion, including former CM Prithviraj Chavan, leader of opposition Radha Krushna Vikhe Patil, former deputy CM Ajit Pawar,   leader  , former minister Patangrao Kadam, Dilip Walse Patil and a number of MLAs belonging to Congress and NCP.
 
 The leaders also had lunch with the children of farmers who committed suicide.
 
 Former CM Prithviraj Chavan questioned if the state government is waiting for an auspicious occasion to waive off farmers’ loans. “We have been demanding that the state should waive off the loans taken by the farmers. For the past three years we have been pursuing this issue with the state. Earlier CM Devendra Fadanvis kept saying that it was difficult to waive off loans of farmers. He later changed his stand and said that he would waive off the loans, after Uttar Pradesh does it. But now, the CM is saying that it will be done at an appropriate time. I want to ask if he is going to do it by finding an auspicious day by referring a calender,” he said.
 
 Chavan raised questions over the state government cutting down the allocation for irrigation-related projects in the budget. “During my term as a CM, several questions were being raised over the irrigation projects in the state. Now, the incumbent government should disclose the irrigation work they have completed in the past three years. We were not allowed to speak on this issue during the session,” he said. 
 
 NCP leader Ajit Pawar said that BJP has murdered the democracy. “BJP led government instead of waiving off farmer loans, suspended 19 MLAs, who were raising demands for the waiver,” he said.
 
 Pawar also questioned the government’s intentions behind reinstating of 9 of the 19 MLAs, who have been suspended. He said, “The state government is trying to create a rift by reinstating only 9 MLAs. But would like to inform the government that as a mark of protest, those reinstated will not resume work.”
 
