MUMBAI: Chief Selector   Talks About The Battle For The Wicketkeeper's Slot, Yuvraj's Comeback & His Equation With   ...

 When he was named India's chief selector in September last year, many were sceptical about former India wicketkeeper MSK Prasad and his panel. All Prasad had on his `CV' was six Tests and 17 ODIs. The 41-year-old and his `lightweight' selection committee boasted of a combined international experience of 13 Tests and 31 ODIs. However, the role of Prasad and his colleagues in India's recent streak of success cannot be ignored. Prasad spoke exclusively to TOI on the sidelines of the  . Excerpts ...
 
 
 
 I've always stressed on having healthy bench strength and competition. We've always rated Saha as the first 'keeper for the team, and then Parthiv as the next-best. Today, Saha has shown why he is the best. I don't think Parthiv is really far behind. He's got all the capabilities.
 
 
 
 
 Wickepeeking is an area which is my core competency . I'm happy to say that six to seven wicketkeepers are good and ready to even play for India.Rishabh, Kishan and KS Bharat are doing exceptionally well. We have the all-time greatest 'keeper-batsman in the shorter format, MS Dhoni, still playing. And let me clearly say it: he's still the best 'keeper-batsman in the world in the shorter format.
 
 
 
 
 Dhoni knows himself well. I can clearly say that it was purely his decision to quit and let's respect it, without going too much into it, because he's done so much for the country . By politicizing the issue, we're hurting his sentiments.
 
 
 
 All of us (the selectors) watched Yuvraj perform well in domestic cricket.He got big runs on the (pacy) Lahli wicket and got 600-plus runs. In the two games that I saw him, he never came out of the field for a single ball. I had a long, casual chat with him. He told me that he wanted to play the senior, mentor's role in the Indian team. We thought that he still had the hunger to play . We saw that if given the opportunity , he will definitely give it his best shot.
 
 
 
 
 I have a very good rapport with Virat. I have the highest regard for him.The Virat that the outer world knows and the Virat that I know are completely different. He's really accommodative and contributes well in selection meetings. What I really appreciate about Mahi and him is that both keep track of domestic cricket. The camaraderie between Mahi, Virat, and Anil (Kumble) will be good for Indian cricket.
 
 
 
 
 It was a very good series for Kedar and Indian cricket, because I was a bit worried during the New Zealand series (ODIs), where there was a bit if brittleness in the middle order. Now, I'm totally convinced that we have a strong middle order, with Manish Pandey , Rahane and Rayudu waiting in the wings.
 
 
