Coimbatore audience was in for a treat recently, thanks to standup comedian  , popularly known as Alex or The Yogi, who performed his first single show in the city. CT caught up with the standup comedian, who is also a yoga teacher for a quick chat.

 
 
 Stand-up is an honest art form. I wanted to do a show which is an extension of what I am. There are a lot of things going around us and we want to share your opinion about them. These days everything is a problem. We are struggling to get even the fundamental needs like water, food and air. So, I wanted to make a difference. I infused comedy into these issues. First, I tell my jokes and then plan on passing on my message as a comedy. I love music and my fellow comedians have been asking me to bring music in my comedy. Baggy (Bhargav Ramakrishnan, standup comedian) helped me put together comedy, music and messages and bring in a flow.
 
 
 
 I was watching standup comedians   and S Aravind performing in Chennai. Until then, I had wanted to become a Tamil movie comedian. I wanted to be an S Ve Shekher or Vivekh. But, I didn’t have the courage to discontinue my job and take up comedy. When I watched them perform, I thought I could do this. I just had to improve my English. In standup, you have to do everything right from scripting to telling jokes.
 
 
 
 I’ve been learning music for a while. I used to play tabla when I was young. I learned it for seven years and I’ve been learning vocal for twelve years now. I’ve listened to the music of Sirkazhi Govindarajan and MS Viswanathan. So, I wanted to bring them into my show.
 
 
 
 I am still performing to my Tamil people abroad. So, it is the same, since they know my background. They know what I am going to talk about and there is no need for an introduction. But, you should be able to connect with them. When I do a show in Edinburgh, I should talk about the city and what I understand about it. When I add five minutes of that to my show, it gives a completely different colour to it and they are able to connect with me. I talk about what’s happening back home, talk about the travel experience and all such small things.
 
 
 
 Actually, whenever a new artist is performing, the scope for standup comedy is only increasing. Each one of us is unique in our own way. When you compare yourself with another person, you start thinking about them and how they are performing.That’s when you lose yourself. You are focusing on their strength and not yours, so, you lose your uniqueness. You should be talking about things that are bothering you and what you are thinking about.
 
 
 
 I don’t think it happens in a live show, because people listen to me and they know in what context I make a joke. You always tease your close friend and not random people, because you love them so much. Similarly, I tease people who I love and they are AR Rahman, MSV, Ilaiyaraja. This is what people watching it online, don’t understand. They only listen to the bits I say about their favourite stars and get offended. ‘How can you make jokes about Rahman or Ilaiyaraja? Do you know music?’ These are the questions they ask. But, they fail to understand how much I love their music.
 
 
 
 I saw a lot of first timers here. They are new to standup comedy and they are watching me for the first time. Of course, the stage was bigger here, compared to a Mumbai or Hyderabad stage. There I am close to the audience and the intimacy factor was missing. But, I felt extremely comfortable. I used a lot more Tamil here than other places. I would say they were a brilliant audience.
 
 
 
 I have to quote   (popular Canadian comedian) here. He says don’t do standup comedy or anything for money or fame. Do it only if you are passionate about it. There will be ups and downs, but, when you are passionate about it, you will also enjoy the downs. 
 
 
