VADODARA: ‘Performing well in the second Indian Premier League (IPL) season is always tough for players as the opponents have already read you in the first season and then they come hard at you. I am very satisfied with my performance and this was the best season for me,” said  , who won man of the match award for his 47-run knock for   (MI) in the IPL finals. 

 The 26-year-old scored runs when it mattered the most and it helped MI post a respectable score and beat Rising Pune Supergiant. 
 
 “I was out of action for a long time due to injury but I had a good outing for Baroda in   Trophy this season. So I was confident of performing well in IPL,” Krunal told TOI. He scored 243 runs and took 10 wickets in the 13 games he played. 
 
 The all-rounder felt that despite the sport being tilted in the favour of batsmen, bowlers are getting smart in the IPL. 
 
 “The wickets were bit slow during IPL this time but bowlers too have developed skills to bowl effectively in T20. After all, it is the bowlers who help teams in winning the game,” Krunal added. When asked about becoming the first pair of brothers to play for the same team in IPL finals, Krunal said that playing with Hardik was amazing experience.
 
 “We used to discuss our games during IPL but it was not on serious note. In fact, we both make fun of each other when we fail to get more runs or wickets. We praise for good performance only once but teased often if either of us failed to deliver. But it was just on lighter note and we both take it very lightly,” Krunal revealed. 
 
 He is, of course, expecting to make it to the Indian team. “I am not thinking much about it but it is always a dream for any cricketer to play for India,” he said. 
 
 He was elated on Tuesday morning when Bollywood star, Amitabh Bachchan tweeted his photos with Pandya brothers. 
 
 “It was a dream come true when Amitabh Bachchan praised our performance and said that he always follows our game.   too appreciated my on-field attitude and shared his experiences with me. And I also managed to meet Shah Rukh Khan. God wrote best script for me. These were the best two months of my life,” said Krunal.
 
 
