NAVI MUMBAI: Many prominent RTI and social activists have opposed NMMC’s move to demolish   on top of terraces stating misuse should be punished but protection from rains was a genuine concern. But   said that it would demolish the ones where it has received complaints of misuse first.

 Additional municipal commissioner, Ankush Chavan said that if civic permission has been taken to build the sheds, then they wouldn’t be taken down. Survey is on to find out how many of around 6,000 societies took permission to cover the terraces due to leakages during monsoon.
 
 Chavan told TOI on Monday that they have forwarded the complaints of misuse to the ward offices and those will have to be demolished by societies. “If they do not take them down, then we will have to do it and recover the cost and transportation charges for dumping the waste to Turbhe landfill site,” he added.
 
 Many buildings in NMMC area were built by Cidco and have faced problems such as leakages and ceiling collapse have been reported. The sheds were a last ditch effort to protect the terraces.
 
 Sandeep Thakur, prominent RTI and social activist said that he had a talk with civic chief Tukaram Mundhe recently. “He told me that if the sheds have been built to cover open space used for waterproofing or containing the heat then they would not be demolished,” he said.
 
 Another RTI activist,   of Sahayak (NGO) has written to the urban development department inquiring if MRTP Act could be amended to give relief to societies as the sheds were mostly used to avoid leakages during heavy rains. 
 
 He said, “Misuse should be dealt with but if the sheds had to be constructed as the Cidco buildings were not constructed properly, then it is not the fault of the occupants.’’
 
 There is a general perception that Cidco built the buildings when there was ‘cement rationing’ and they are not of good quality. The arguments are strengthened many expert teams like the one from Bombay IIT found structural deficiencies in hundreds of such structures built in late 1990s. 
 
 
