GHAZIABAD: The arrival of a new government in Lucknow will have a bearing on ongoing development   in Ghaziabad. 

 One could expect that projects with names reflecting the outgoing SP government, like Samajwadi Awas Yojana or even the cycle track, will either be renamed or shelved. With Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in an election rally in Ghaziabad, openly pitching for a   audit of development agencies with direct reference to  , this is expected to happen sooner than later.
 
 “The Dilshad Garden-New Bus Stand Metro line never found favour with the Akhilesh Yadav government. As a result, it is facing a funds crisis. Neither the share of funds pledged by the government of India, nor that pledged by Ghaziabad Municipal Corporation, have arrived,” said a GDA official. “But with a new government, this issue could be resolved, because there’s now a BJP government in both the state and the Centre, which should oversee a seamless transfer of funds and remove bottlenecks,” the official added. The Centre has pledged to spend Rs 344 crore on this project.
 
 The CAG audit of development agencies, with regards to GDA, had become a bone of contention between the Centre and the SP government in UP. The latter resisted the move. “When PM Modi raked up the issue of CAG audit during an election rally in Ghaziabad, it became evident that if BJP came to power in the state, it would go for a CAG audit. Now that BJP is forming government in the state, this should soon become a reality,” said a GDA official.On the issue of renaming Samajwadi Awas Yojana, it is certain the BJP government will rename it, most likely as Deen Dayal Jan Awas Yojana. “One should not be surprised if it happens, as every government in the state has sought to rename schemes to reflect their party’s stamp. Mayawati had her Kanshi Ram housing scheme, for example,” said the GDA official.
 
 The fate of Akhilesh’s cycle track, too, hangs in balance. Many observers believed SP threw its weight behind the project to promote its election symbol. “Cycle track projects will also see overhaul, as BJP takes charge in Lucknow,” the GDA official said.
 
 
