NEW DELHI: In a bid to strengthen AAP, chief minister   will hold a series of dialogue and discussions with party workers. On May 25, Kejriwal will interact with farmers in Chhawla and neighbouring localities in southwest Delhi. He will take this exercise to more areas later. 

 “In the first phase, he will have a discussion with farmers in Matiala and Najafgarh while the second phase will cover Narela, Bawana, Kirari and Burari,” said AAP’s Delhi convener  .
 
 The dialogue will centre around the recent notification of land pooling policy under which 89 villages have been declared as urban areas. The interactions are part of an elaborate plan to organise party workers at different levels. AAP has recently appointed 3,000 mandal adhyaksh (zonal presidents)—each one them will lead a team at a polling booth—and will induct 700 more in the days to come. 
 
 The move comes in the wake of sacked minister Kapil Mishra’s appeal to a section of AAP workers, who were feeling “disappointed” with the party, to join him in his fight to “clean AAP”.
 
 The party led by Kejriwal will also hold meetings with district presidents, MLAs, councillors and candidates who contested the municipal elections. From June 15, AAP will organise workers’ conventions at each assembly constituency, which will be addressed by party national convener Kejriwal besides other functionaries.
 
 This is an extension of the “Mera Booth Sabse Majboot” campaign to infuse new blood into the party after its humiliating defeat in the civic polls. All party functionaries have to choose a polling booth and work towards strengthening the organisation. Rai said he had chosen one booth in his assembly constituency. AAP will extend this model to other parts of the country as well. 
 
 Meanwhile, reacting to the allegations against the party, Rai said: “There is a conspiracy to malign the image of the party and paralyse the Delhi government because AAP is emerging as a strong political force in the country. We grew at maximum speed in the shortest period of time. No party has grown so fast.” 
 
 Echoing Kejriwal’s remark, Rai said: “We will be in jail the day they (BJP government) find anything against us.” 
 
