DHARMAPURI: Police have stumbled upon a backyard rifle-making unit on the  .

 The Dharmapuri police arrested K Dasan, 40, a woodsmith-turned-rifle maker, and 11 other men from various villages in remote parts of the inter-district border for possessing rifles. Eleven rifles have been seized. Police ruled out a Maoist angle in making as well as posession of the arms and said they were used by villagers for hunting. Dharmapuri was once notorious for the presence of Naxals.
 
 “We have verified the antecedents of those arrested for possessing these rifles. They are ordinary farmers. They had purchased the weapons to chase away wild boars entering their farms. We suspect some of them used the rifles for hunting boars and rabbits too,’’ said Dharmapuri SP Bandi Gangadhar.
 
 Police said they got a tip about villagers possessing rifles in the inter-district border. A discrete probe was initiated and the police team found that Dasan from a remote village near Palacode was the one supplying the rifles. The police picked him up on Wednesday. Based on the information he gave, police tracked 11 other people from various villages who had purchased guns from him over the past two years. All of them were arrested on Thursday.
 
 Police said the rifles were very rudimentary. “These are muzzle loader guns which use gun powder as propellant and ball bearings as ammunition,” said a police officer.
 
 Police have decided to take into custody Dasan to find out if he had sold weapons to more people. “We suspect that there could be more such men making weapons and selling it to people,’’ the officer said.
 
 Farmers in the region say it is common among their folk to possess rifles to control the wild boar menace. “In several villages, farmers use rifles to chase away animals. Some of them also venture into nearby forests once in a while to hunt small animals,” said a farmer from Dharmapuri.
 
 Gangadhar said they would continue the crackdown on such illegal arms in the district. “In the past one year there were at least two incidents where such guns were used during domestic quarrels for firing. So we would want to end the menace completely,’’ he said.
 
 
