MANGALURU: Real talent in fledgling coastal wood is all set to get a major leg up in reel – thanks to Sangati Creations. Emerging as an independent production house,   on Saturday that announced its first project in Tulu Aan Mage, earlier in the week had launched its maiden Konkani effort in Zanvoy No 1. The production house has already set its eyes in making a foray in to Kannada film using what its promoters feel is abundantly available local talent.

 Cyril Fernandes, senior executive in leading oil marketing company and one among the troika that constitutes Sangati Creations – Mumbai based businessmen – Walter D’Souza and Leo Fernandes – being the other two – in a freewheeling chat with TOI on the sidelines of muhurath of Ann Mage said the idea to get in to film production came when he was watching Sophiya that   directed. “I offered to finance his next venture from the theatre itself,” Cyril said.
 
 Incidentally, the promoters have reposed their faith in Harry Fernandes after seeing his directorial work in earlier films   and Sophiya produced under different bannerto give wings to their creative dreams. “Harry is not so well versed in Tulu and it is a challenge for us as well,” Cyril said adding the veteran film makers pedigree across languages including Bhojpuri, Hindi, and now Konkani has made the promoters all the more confident in his abilities.
 
 With cast and crew for both films likely to be finalized shortly, Cyril said the coast has abundance of talent and the trio presently settled in Mumbai felt the desire to do something creative both for stage and film in the land of their birth. The common element in both films is upcoming talented actor Elton Mascarenhas who has two Konkani films under his belt at Zanvoy No 1 would be his third and Ann Mage his maiden venture in Tulu films, Cyril pointed.
 
 Hailing the entry of Sangati Creations in to film production business, actor-producer   said the intimate knowledge of the Mumbai market – a major one for Tulu film industry – that the trio possess – will definitely boost fortunes of Tulu films there. “We are barely able to get a toehold in Mumbai apart from customary exhibition and early morning slots,” he said. “Their pulse of the Mumbai market will prove to a boon to artists from coastalwood,” he said.
 
 Devadas Kapikad, actor-producer whose   too is in to movie production says he has no issues in using the deep pockets that Sangati Creations brings with it. “Tulu film industry can certainly do with healthy dose of funding,” he said adding even otherwise most Tulu films are produced with partners pitching in. “We can certainly raise the quality of our offering further if we have access to producers who are able to see our artistic point of view,” he says.
 
