Kamini.Mehta@timesgroup.com

 w/pix
 
 Chandigarh: Animal lovers and rescuers are disappointed with the government bodies for lack of compassion for animals and maintaining poor hygiene at the animal shelter. As a result the animal lovers have taken to Facebook to vent out their anger.
 
 They have also started coming forward and lodging complaints. Recently, an engineering student from UIET, Panjab University, gave a complaint against the shelter run by Society for Prevention of Cruelty towards Animals ( ) to the deputy commissioner and director, animal husbandry, to highlight the poor condition. A copy of the complaint is with TOI.
 
 He said, “On July 18, I found two kittens abandoned, malnourished and dying in the college. They were in a box and surrounded by a bunch of people who were doing nothing but predicting which one of them will die first. When I saw the box with those kittens inside, I immediately took them to the animal hospital in Sector 22, Chandigarh.”
 
 “Seeing the condition of the kittens, the doctor said their chance of survival is slim. He just wrote down the name of a medicine on a piece of paper and told me give this to kittens and hope for the best,” he said.
 
 After that he contacted SPCA which asked them to bring the kittens to the shelter. “Upon reaching there, we were shocked to witness the condition of animals housed at the shelter,” he said.
 
 “Stray dogs which were badly injured and needed immediate first aid were just kept in the open with no staff member attending to them. It was like they didn’t care at all. They took those kittens and kept them in a cage. The hygienic condition at the shelter was pathetic,” Saransh said.
 
 Thereafter, they decided not to keep the kittens in the shelter. “When we were leaving, the officials at the SPCA shelter said ‘it is good that you are taking them. Here, they would have died anyways’. It was a really a bad experience for me so I decided to write to the authorities. What is the need to spend so much on the shelter if it doesn’t serve the purpose? We found another home and after dropping the kittens there, I was sure they were in good hands. It has been two days and the kittens are doing well,” he said.
 
 He even took to Facebook to vent out his anger and said, “This organization, SPCA, should be booked for mishandling poor animals. SPCA is hell for animals. It is extremely understaffed and the staff members are not compassionate enough towards those needy animals.”
 
 Vikas Luthra from ‘Furever Friends’, a group of animal lovers and rescuers, said that bad condition of government-run shelters was the reason why animal lovers formed different groups to help the voiceless creatures.
 
 He said, “‘Furever Friends’ was established with the core idea of helping the suffering animals. We came up with the platform when we saw that the government organizations and NGOs did not provide requisite services and were ineffective. We felt that their while government bodies lacked compassion, the NGOs were doing everything for funds.”
 
 “In our group we wish to prove that it’s not the money but the zeal that can help these animals. At present we have more than 179 foster homes associated with us through our network and we are always on toes to provide services to our best abilities like arranging treatment for injured or sick animals, fostering and majorly adoption. It’s just a platform where people from all walks of life have come together to help and bring about some positive changes in the lives of animals,” Vikas added.
 
 Another animal lover, not willing to be named, said, “SPCA is the only shelter in the city where the condition was bad. Now some of our friends are working with them as volunteers and they are trying to make things better. There has been a little improvement as well.”
 
 Dr Kanwarjit Singh, joint director, animal husbandry, said, “We mostly cater to stray animals which are injured or ailing. Seeing their condition, one might get an impression that the condition at the shelter is not good. However, we are still in the process of expanding and modernizing the SPCA shelter. We are also looking forward to get one more ambulance. Moreover, we are open not only to suggestions, but we will like to invite animal lovers to come forward and join us to improve things.”
 
 
