Nagpur: Are the IT graduates produced by Nagpur University (NU) industry-ready? Are they are groomed and trained enough to meet the latest in the fast-paced cutting edge technology? The answers seem seem quite demoralizing.

 Employment opportunities for IT graduates of NU are shrinking as the obsolete curricula can’t match the needs of the industry, which wants recruits who are job-ready.
 
 According to some recent media reports, more than half-a-dozen top IT firms in India are about to lay off around 56,000 mid-level IT professionals. Most of these professionals have apparently failed to keep pace with the latest technological developments and hence, lack the required skill in cut-throat competition.
 
 Against this backdrop, thousands of IT and computer science students of the university find themselves grossly ill-prepared. Not only are the syllabi out of sync with the present day developments in technology, most of the private colleges severely lack infrastructure and teachers.
 
 Shashikant Choudhary, president of TiE (a non-profit, global community), says companies neither have the time nor the money to train recruits. “It is the fight between the kind of skills a candidate has and skills required by the industry. Most NU colleges suffer from lack of trained faculty,” he said.
 
 “Nagpur University churns out around 20,000 graduates in IT sector (IT, CS Engineers, diploma, BCA, MCA, BSc etc.) annually, but the absorption by industry is barely one-tenth,” he says.
 
 “As against the industry’s demands for highly skilled manpower, the university’s syllabus remains archaic by industry’s standards. So at this stage, getting jobs for middle and lower-level IT candidates is very difficult,” he adds.
 
 Wichita State University product Ketan Paithankar, who did his bachelor’s in engineering from Nagpur and is the co-founder of city-based computer networking company Recho.com, sounds a note of caution. “Industries in Nagpur are not in much trouble presently, but lack of skilled professionals or even freshers may eventually see more pink slips being handed out to them. The layoffs in big cities are due to the employees’ under-preparedness in adapting to new technologies,” he says.
 
 Shruti Sharma, working at a renowned Nagpur-based IT company and a university-affiliated college passout, says the NU curriculum is of no help in terms of industry services. “Once you enter the industrial world, you realize that whatever you have studied is mere theory. It is the company that trains you,” she adds.
 
 Currently, the IT sector needs expertise in artificial intelligence, machine learning, block chains and cyber security. Infosys recently started working on blockchain technologies. A blockchain is a ledger of records arranged in data batches called blocks that use cryptographic validation to link themselves together.
 
 Put simply, each block references and identifies the previous block by a hashing function, forming an unbroken chain, hence the name.
 
 NU students say they are not given adequate knowledge about any of the cutting edge technologies.
 
 Raj Meghwani, a Pune-based IT worker who passed out from an autonomous engineering college in Nagpur, says, “The condition of NU’s IT graduates is the same everywhere. Whatever the college taught us was of no use. They just gave us superficial basics, nothing more.”
 
 Kunal Padole, placement dean at Jhulelal Institute of Technology, says colleges do not have specialized trainers for these courses. “City colleges are unable to place around 40% students. Things will get worse if the recruiting industries become pickier,” he says.
 
 
