LUCKNOW: As the city prepares to celebrate Holi with synthetic colours, fancy pichkaris and water balloons, several temples will be celebrating ‘Phoolon ki Holi’ (Holi with flowers), this year. The concept, believed to have travelled from Braj region, is practised by many religious communities. 

 On Sunday, for the first time, International Society For Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON) celebrated ‘phoolon ki Holi’ at its Lucknow centre . “People got the chance to indulge in Krishan kirtan and holy mantra chanting while playing floral holi with their Lord. “All followers associated with ISKCON were extremely excited about the event. We held the event the way it is celebrated at our Vrindavan centre,” said Aparimay Shyam Das, the high priest of ISKCON.
 
 Following the practice for past seven years, at   near New Hyderabad, elaborate arrangements have been made for floral Holi organised on March 13 at 9am. “Nearly 20 quintal flowers have been ordered. The flowers would be mixed with herbal colors and over 3,000 people are expected to participate in the divine celebration,” said Sudhish Garg, from the temple association.
 
 Claiming to be the first to introduce Phoolon ki Holi in the city, this is the seventeenth year for Aashiana Parivar to have organised the festivity. President of the society R D Diwedi said, “This year, I have ordered for mainly bela flowers to play with because of its fragrance and along with it we have arranged for more than 5 quintal herbal gulaal and 10 quintal other flowers to celebrate the occasion on March 13. Part of the flowers would be purchased from the market while some of them would be those offered to the diety in our Temple. This way, the flowers offered would also be used in the celebration.” 
 
  trust has also organised ‘Phoolon ki Holi’ for the first time. “We are going to let devotees play with flowers and colors during the Mahaarti organised on March 12 at Gomti Ghat. Devotees will not only get to experience the divinity of this type of celebration, they will also witness Holika Dahan with it,” said Devya Giri, priest at Mankameshwar Temple.
 
 Wholesaler florists in the city also vouched about high demand of flowers and said they have already got huge orders for various types of flowers including marigold, roses and Bela in bulk ahead of the festival which, heralds the joyous arrival of spring.
 
 “Till now I have received order for 30 quintals of flowers that has to be sent to two temples and one residential society and more orders are expected near the festival date. With demand the price of flowers are also soaring especially marigold because it is mostly used for floral holi and decoration of temples,” said Ahmed, florist at Chowk market.
 
 BOX
 
 Additional supply on Holi day
 
 Keeping in mind the excessive water consumption on Holi Day, Jal Sansthan is planning to provide additional supply for three hours on Holi. Adding to the routine supply in morning and evening, extra water will be provided all afternoon. Besides, workers are asked to make sure all functional over-head tanks in the city are filled a day before. The employees at zonal offices have been asked to stay alert on the festival day and attend to all water problems in the city. “There is no holiday for either officials or workers on Holi and they are being asked to stay extra alert for emergencies. Water will be supplied three times on the day,” Sanjay Sinha, Jal Sansthan GM.
 
