

  Breaking free from the collectors’ shelf and all the nostalgia associated with these crackling musical discs, vinyl record   — probably, for the first time ever in history — have outstripped that of digital downloads. While the resurgence was recorded globally in the run-up to the year-end festive season, the UK witnessed a prominent spike in demand for vinyl albums in 2016. The hit releases on vinyl included Metallica’s Hardwired to Self-Destruct, Pink Floyd’s Animals, the Beatles’ Live at the Hollywood Bowl, Amy Winehouse’s Back to Black and Nirvana’s Never Mind. Hailed as a tipping point for the record industry, it is considered a resounding comeback of this medium, particularly after almost losing the battle to new-age formats around 2006. Cut to the   market in India, their sales still remain average. 
  explores the scene in the city…
 
  
 
 
  Speaking about the trend, Vikram Bhat, the owner of Mahatobar Distribution in Bengaluru, says, “The   industry has seen a remarkable growth in its demand over the past four years. Thanks to the availability of advanced record players, music lovers are now rekindling their love for the age-old gems. However, when it comes to the demand-supply regime in India, a number of factors come under the purview. Compared to the US and the UK, the number of stores selling vinyl albums are still very few here. The handful of companies manufacturing records struggle to keep up with the demand. And because, most of the chart-topping albums need to be imported from other countries, the price levels are generally high all the year round. At my store, the cost of a vinyl album ranges between `1,500 and `5,000 — which is much higher than other formats. Each record runs for a period of 45 minutes, roughly covering a maximum of eight tracks, depending on the length of a song. Moreover, cheaper digital formats are still a hit among the majority of customers, with only a niche group of ardent fans, aged between 25 to 50 years, still being faithful to the physical formats of music.” This outlet mainly deals in the Classic Rock and Heavy Metal genres. 
 
  
 
 
  When septuagenarian DS Sreenivasa Murthy patiently attends to customers at his little antique corner in the city, it’s more than just running a business. He is keeping alive his father DN Seetharama Setty’s passion for gramophones and records. Established in 1924, Seethaphone Company on Avenue Road is a favourite among those who still consider the   a charming relic. Sreenivasa says, “It’s good to hear that vinyl sales have seen a record high this year, but here things are yet to hit the mainstream. More than a medium of music, gramophones and records are now regarded as the perfect gift items for the elderly, who would probably use them to adorn their living rooms, or seen as a collector’s pride.” Apart from the wood-and-brass, hand-cranked replicas of the original Thomas Edison version of the device, the shop also offers the rare 78-rpm   records that were quite a rage back in time. “Albums of MS Subbulakshmi, Mohammed Rafi, Elvis Presley, The Beatles and the likes have made record sales on LPs and gramophone records in the past,” he adds.
 
  
 
 
  Describing himself as an analogue guy, vinyl collector Krishna Kumar, 46, says, “It’s all about the passion and vibrant musical experience that records can build. A quick flashback would show that vinyl albums have always had its ups and downs, in terms of popularity and availability. The digital revolution meant that hi-tech and crisp music that can be easily streamed online was favoured over physical formats such as cassettes, tapes and records. The lack of convenience and portability of the music systems or devices to play these formats also posed as a hurdle. Due to the drop in demand, big brands such as HMV and CBS had to close down their manufacturing units, leading to a hike in record prices. But things are changing now again. I am hopeful that the tables will turn in our country too, and we will soon see a vinyl revival.”
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
