Bhopal: The   sari that dates back to the 2nd Century is all set to wear a refreshing new look. Brilliant motifs on luxurious silk will add a sparkle to the traditionally hand-woven fabric. 

 With the collaboration of Central Silk Board of India and National Institute of Fashion Technology (NIFT), Bhopal, the sari — usually woven in silk and cotton — is expected to dazzle even in southern India in just six months, where the fabric has not been widely accepted. With the introduction of 100% silk yarn in weft, these saris will get a rich new translucent look and are expected to win over customers down south, say officials.
 
 Though Chanderi is still in high demand like other handwoven saris, such as Sambalpuri, the government is pushing for wider marketability across India, beginning with the south, which loves the sari. “New design development is essential for the craft sector to continuously ring in novelty and adapt to consumer’s evolving needs,” said Kislay Choudhary, project coordinator and professor at NIFT-Bhopal. US Toliya, director of NIFT, said: “It is essential for a traditional craft to keep diversifying according to market trends and consumer needs to flourish.”
 
 The sari got its name from Chanderi in Vindhyachal range, situated on the boundaries of Malwa and Bundelkhand regions in the 11th century. Since it was located near trade routes connecting Malwa, Mewad and central India to the ports of South and Gujarat, it added to its significance. Ancient texts speak of this geographical region as a famous centre for weavers between the 2nd and 7th centuries.
 
 “Weavers coat motifs collected from nature, such as swan, gold coins and heavenly bodies, on the material with gold, silver and copper threads,” said Yogesh Bihari Chaturvedi, a master weaver. “Weavers have experimented with traditional motifs — from flowers and peacocks to modern geometrical patterns,” he added.
 
 General manager of marketing Sunil Saxena, MP handicrafts development corporation said, “Weavers are working on it. It will take about six more months for the product to come out in the market. We will have to publicise it for marketing.”
 
 
