CHENNAI: With medical emergencies these days costing Rs 5-15 lakh or at times even Rs 50 lakh, medical loan startups like Credihealth, Arogya   and aggregators such as Cashkumar and BankBazaar are finding distraught family members knocking on their doors.

 For a majority of individuals, it is lack of insurance or being under-insured under the employer-paid health policy that has them seeking help from unconventional channels. But while loan startups charge 12-15% as interest, the rate could go up to 35% with aggregators. The repayment tenure is typically six months to four years.
 
 Arogya Finance, which has disbursed loans to the tune of Rs 2 crore with an average ticket size of Rs 1 lakh, says 40% of its clients are from middle-income group and the rest 60% from lowerincome groups. “The biggest difference between an insurance company and us is that we give loans irrespective of patient's age, health history , past diseases or present medical condition,“ says  , CEO, Arogya Finance, which has launched operations in metros like Mumbai, Pune, Delhi-NCR, Bengaluru and Kolkata.
 
 So why not take medical loans or personal loans from banks? “When it comes to banks, they assess the credit history of the individual before giving a loan, and that could often be the patientsole breadwinner. We look at the credit worthiness of the entire family and the loan is given on the family's ability to repay,“ he says. “We have also seen a lot of traction, with more than 3,000 customers for our prepa id medical cards, which cover emergencies of up to Rs 2 lakh. The cards, covering up to five family members, can be bought for Rs 1,000 with yearly renewal for Rs 250,“ Jose says.
 
 Another issue with insurance is the extent of coverage for terminal illness like cancer. Ravi Virmani, MD, Credihealth, says, “Midway through a procedure or treatment plan, patients might find their insurance cover has run out. We have had many patients for whom the surgery was bil led at Rs 3 lakh and their coverage was for Rs 2 lakh.They approach us for the Rs 1-lakh balance.“ Users on the platform can avail of loans ranging from Rs 30,000 to Rs 50 lakh for a repayment tenure starting from six months to 48 months.
 
 “Most people would first think of a moneylender when they have exhausted traditional means of credit, and they charge usurious rates of interest. We ensure that loan applicants pay 1215%,“ says Virmani.
 
 For aggregators like Cashkumar, the difference they bring is in their assessment of the situation -long-term credit for cancer treatment needs versus a short-term lump sum for an accident or surgery .Cashkumar marketing head Vikas Mirmira says that people in an emergency can jump at the first personal loan offer available. “Even in an emergency , one needs to protect one's interests. So we work at getting the most appropriate personal loan offer in quick time among the many banks and NBFCs we have tied up with,“ he says. Cashkumar has tied up with HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank, Kotak Mahindra Bank, Axis Bank and multiple NBFCs such as Bajaj Finserv , Fullerton and  .
 
 Cashkumar offers medical loans with no collateral, security or guarantor requirement, in the range of Rs 10,000 to Rs 30 lakh, and interest rates vary from 12% to 35%. Cashkumar has handled nearly 93,000 loan applications as of August with over Rs 30 crore in loan disbursements. Aggregators like Cashkumar make personal loans available for non-salaried, self-employed persons with a repayment tenure of 1-5 years. 
 
