Edited

 Jaisalmer: Barmer police has recovered 4.83 kgs heroin buried in sand for 15 years and arrested eight smugglers including two from Pokaran, Jaisalmer in this connection. One among two smugglers from Pokaran is deputy sarpanch of Marwa in Pokaran. Heroin, which were recovered two separate places, have been estimated to be of Rs 25 crore in international market. Police expect that more such recoveries are on the queue.
 
 Barmer SP Gangandeep Singhal said on January 13, police were informed that a person has left for Barmer from Chauhatan with heroin in a Bolero (RJ04 TA 1022) after which they put blockades at Kurja Fanta. After seeing police, chauffeur of the Bolero tried to speed away but his effort ended in smoke as the vehicle was stopped and three people, Nurshah, Doshu both residents of Arti and driver Arbu Khan of Lakdasar, were detained by police. Five packets of heroin weighing 4.440 kgs were found in their possession.
 
 The SP said during inquiry, Nurshah and Dosu told the police that they got the consignment from one Sarif, resident of Bhanwar, who had brought this heroin from one Kalu Khan of Fakiron Ka Tala. Culprits told police that the consignments were to be delivered to one Hanif of Kasumbala for Rs 12 lakh and further Hanif was to deliver the consignment to Rahamtullah and Jetaram both of Pokaran for Rs 20 lakh. After registering case, police sent a team that arrested Kalu Khan of Fakiron Ka Tala, Sharif Khan of Bhanwar, Hanif Khan of Kesumbala, Rahimtuallah and Jetaram, both from Pokaran.
 
 Singhal said during the inquiry that till now Kalu Khan had purchased heroin from Aban of Bhada. Attempts were made to detain Aban, but he was found absconding. After recovering heroin, houses of the suspects were searched in which 423 gms heroin were recovered from the house of Sumar Dosu, and a separate case has been lodged against him at Bakhasar police station. Singhal said the consignment of heroin was to be supplied in metro cities through the smugglers of Pokaran. The heroin recovered was part of 17 kgs heroin brought by Dalaram in 2000. Twelve packets have been seized and five packets were delivered to Kalu Khanwho who buried those packets in sand dunes near his hamlet. The heroine have become discoloured due to burial for so many years. 
 
 
