GURUGRAM: The department of town and country planning ( ) on Thursday sealed 10 flats, meant for the economically weaker section (EWS), in   group housing society in Sector 24. The project was taken over by the department more than two decades back and over the years, 11 of the EWS   were illegally occupied. Now, most of these flats were vacated and sealed. Only the occupant of one flat has been given a day’s time to vacate.

 Officials told TOI the flats were vacated and sealed following the direction of the District Consumer Redressal Forum (DCRF) in Gurgaon. “Soon, we will conduct a draw of lots for allotment of these flats to eligible people as per the direction of the forum,” said district town planner (enforcement) Rajendra Sharma.
 
 DTCP had given licence to Gulmohar Estate Pvt Ltd in 1985 for developing Garden Estate group housing society. However, in 1995, the department cancelled the licence of the project, following complaint of irregularities in allotment of EWS flats. “The project was then over taken by the government and senior town planner of Gurgaon was made the administrator of Garden Estate,” said district town planner (planning) Mohan Singh.
 
 Around the time, about 20 people led by Saveena Singhla had approached the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, seeking allotment of EWS flats in the society. “After several years of hearing, the forum in 2015 directed DCRF to ensure allotment of EWS flats to eligible people. The DCRF, in turn, directed the DTCP to carry out the allotment,” assistant town planner RS Batth said.
 
 Officials said a committee of DTCP subsequently checked the status of EWS flats in the project and it was found that 11 flats were illegally occupied. “Ten out of 11 flats have now been vacated and sealed,” said planning officer Jaibir Sharma.
 
 Singhla, who had been fighting the legal battle for the past two decades for allotment of EWS flats to eligible people, said, “If those from the economically weaker section had to fight such a long legal battle, then it defeats the purpose of EWS flats. We are now hoping to get our flats. The government should now develop a mechanism under which EWS flats are allotted in a transparent manner,” she said.
 
 She alleged that in most of the private developer projects, EWS flats are either not constructed or sold out. “Hardly genuine EWS people get such flats. As per rule, every project — be it of a private developer or Huda — needs to have 20% plots or flats reserved for EWS. But these rules are hardly followed.”
 
 
