AHMEDABAD: Deputy collector of Morbi   Sarvaiya, 43, had created a flutter in the local administration when she dared to become a   in 2011. Having decided never to get married, Rekhaba, who hails from the conservative Girasdar Rajput community, had chosen IVF for motherhood. But love is notorious to sweep you off your feet when you least expect it. 

 Rekhaba surrendered to love and married advocate   on November 25, 2016. Her mother, sisters and daughter Abigna stood in proud attendance at the reception celebrating her marriage. Many well-wishers even ribbed the class-I officer about her loving and living life in reverse gear! 
 
 Rekhaba, who is also a poetess, writer and painter, concedes she put Sanjaysinh through many trials but his patient and persistent love finally won her over. In fact, she confesses she had even intimated the local SP about Sanjaysinh harassing her by sending her text messages despite her orders to the contrary. "Later, of course, we went together to invite the SP for our wedding reception," laughs Sanjay.
 
 Sanjaysinh, a notary at the collectorate premises, got professionally acquainted with Rekhaba. What connected them was a tragedy. "Sanjay lost his wife and kids in an accident in 2014. As I had lost my brother in an accident too, I told him he will have to dip into his inner strength to survive the tragedy. Somewhere, he found the words inspiring and started looking to me for strength," she says.
 
 She confesses she tried to stop Sanjaysinh at every step, telling him she was not 'wife material' given her commitment to her responsibilities -- her job, mother and daughter. She also told her responsibility of deputy collector would leave her little time for dispensing duties as a daughter-in-law. "He brought me a pile of biodatas of very eligible girls received as marriage proposals but insisted he wished to spend his life only with me," she adds. 
 
 It took Rekahba's mother and daughter's intervention to convinced her of Sanjaysinh's unflinching love. "A man of my community who lost his family proposing to me -- I saw God's will there somewhere,"she says. 
 
 Sanjay says he found Rekhaba's feisty nature and attitude towards living her life on her own terms irresistible. "She is creative, spiritual, hardworking and bold enough to live on her terms. What's there not to love," says the advocate. 
 
 
