NEW DELHI: Key opposition parties, led by  , sought President Pranab Mukherjee’s intervention on what they alleged was rising intolerance and authoritarianism under the BJP government.

 With former PM   and Congress chief   in front, the delegation met the President just after the budget session of Parliament drew to a close on Wednesday.
 
 Among the complaints were vigilantism in the backdrop of a Muslim youth’s lynching in Alwar by “gau rakshaks” and “muzzling of dissent” by entities related to BJP. It also spoke about the “alleged tampering of EVMs, particularly in the recently concluded assembly polls”. The delegation alleged that the government was classifying many legislations as “money bill” to avoid the scrutiny of the Rajya Sabha. The “continuous violence” in Kashmir also found mention.
 
 in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad said, “An environment of fear and insecurity is prevailing in the country and voices of dissent are being muzzled. We have requested the President for his urgent intervention to protect India’s constitutional democracy and safeguard the fundamental rights of citizens.”
 
 contributed to the creation of an alarming situation never seen in this country,” the opposition alleged.
 
 The delegation featuring members of all major anti-BJP parties – Left, TMC, SP, BSP, JD(U) and RJD – came after a similar delegation met the Election Commission two days ago. With chief ministers   and Mamata Banerjee coming out again in favour of a “grand alliance”, the move raised hopes of improving coordination in the opposition camp.
 
 “In a democracy, the rule of law must prevail but selfstyled lumpen elements have indulged in violence, mob lynching and harassment across the country,” Azad said.
 
 “Triggering false debates, manufacturing post-truths, orchestrating an inflammatory narrative on nationalism, exploiting religious sentiments, and threats of violence to citizens, are vitiating the environment,” the memorandum said. It said agencies were being misused to harass leaders in the Opposition.
 
 The memorandum was signed by Tariq Anwar (NCP), Satish Chandra Misra (BSP), Dharmendra Yadav and Neeraj Shekhar (SP), D Raja (CPI), Sitaram Yechury (CPM), Sukhendu Sekhar Roy and Kalyan Banerjee (TMC), Sharad Yadav (JD(U)) and V Elangovan (DMK) among others.
 
 
