Denizens of Bengaluru sure know how to deal with attention-deficit syn drome (ADS, or gaining publicity), and how they deal with it can be best explained by the analogy of the pyramid.

 At the bottom of the pyramid are those citizens who manufacture controversies or create scandals for publicity . They may pry out clinching evidence through various means, by hook or by crook. These are generally people of power -the movers and shakers -who swear by the dictum “any publicity is good publicity“. 
 
 These include famous actors, politicians and high-flying businessmen. The next class of people who deal with ADS are those who enlist the services of a public relations (PR) organization to achieve the same. One would expect executives, white-collar workers and the upper middle-class resort to such tactics. But these methods are generally the preserve of the ones with deep pockets and influence -a miniscule proportion of Bengaluru's populace. For the hoi polloi amongst us, the ones at the apex of the pyramid, there is a sure way to achieve the same publicity with little or minimal expense: the ubiquitous banner or flex-board found on our road sides.
 
 The flex-boards of Bengaluru, thus, also hand us an impromptu lesson in economic divisions, something that even   or   may have struggled to explain. This economic marker of sorts has another distinction: a variety of forms that might put the Encyclopaedia Britannica to shame. It is worth exploring some of the key species among them to understand the city's functioning.
 
 The political flexes: Also known as the “blow my own trumpet“ flex. Usually associated with taking credit for miniscule achievements or those that were for long in the making.
 
 Not too long ago, a couple of roads -after a slew of complaints and representations -in my locality were tarred. The roads were not even thrown open to public, but flexes with images of the local corporator and MLA sprung out of nowhere. Not to be outdone, the opposition party too put up flexes car rying images of its leaders and an “MLA candidate“.
 
 Remember the inaugural of the first line of  ? A mere 7km stretch was opened, but was not the city inundated with publicity material of all sorts?
 
 The overtly political flexes: Also known as the complaint box.The political party in question levels allegations against its opposing party , reminding the public of its sins. Usually comes up during election time.
 
 The birthday-reminder flexes: Such flexes are the equivalent of   birthday reminders on our roads. Chances are, we may not remember the birthdays of all of our family members. But not so, with “distinguished“ persons of our society , including politicians.
 
 The religious flexes: These flexes come up during festive occasions throughout the year, be it Ganesh Chathurthi, Rajyotsava, Sankranti or Ramzan. Assumes two distinct forms -political and apolitical. Political religious flexes comprise season's greetings with the visage of the politician in question in prominent display . The apolitical variant has local associations, clubs pointing out that they are conducting the celebrations. These flexes are identified as a mélange of faces in various sizes, with the image of the deity festival usually pushed to an insignificant corner.
 
 The personal flexes: Just married? Won a gully cricket tournament? Downloaded the “DVD print“ of a movie in its second day of theatrical release? Booked train tickets on IRCTC website in one shot?
 
 Flaunt it. Imagination is key here.The banner can have as many dramatis-personae as it can. For instance, you could have matinee idol Dr   blessing the beaming couple on the banner or Sachin Tendulkar showering them with flower petals.
 
 The commercial flexes: Opened a new store? Offering festive discounts? A gold coin free for every bar of gold sold or the other way round? Put it up there and watch the stampede outside your business establishment.
 
 The flex-boards that are integral to the city may or may not have legal sanction, and may not necessarily be visually pleasing. Let us not even get started on the resultant garbage problems. Did someone say  ?
 
