SHILLONG: The people's club finally became the club of the nation. With the blowing of the final whistle, thousands of   supporters barged into the field to get close to the players and staff who had put a small club from the northeastern state of Mizoram on the national football map. Mizoram is no longer the nursery of Indian football but has become the powerhouse of the game with a 1-1 draw against arch-rivals   that was enough to be crowned the I-League champions.

 But it was not an easy game for the Khalid Jamil-mentored side. With the Mohun Bagan-Chennai City match in Kolkata hanging over their shoulders and the league top-scorer Aser Dipanda Dicka putting the hosts ahead with an accurate ninth-minute header from a Samuel Lalmuanpuia cross from left, the title contenders needed something extraordinary to make their dreams come true. It was especially difficult as Aizawl had not won after conceding first all season and the opening-minute jitters looked to have taken a toll on their movement.
 
 With   and Ashutosh Mehta missing the proceedings with suspension, it was left to the defensive skills of   and Zohminglliana Ralte to stop Lajong's attacks. Mahmoud al Amna, as always, showed his class in the midfield along with  , while   made some impressive runs into the Lajong box. In the 37th minute, Kamo Bayi almost got the equalizer but a goal-line clearance by Radeem Tlang kept the scoreline unchanged at 1-0 at half-time. "I told the players at half-time that this was the last 45 minutes you are going to get to attain your goals this season. So you need to give that extra effort to seal the title," Jamil said later.
 
 The Aizawl eleven looked much more fluid and organized after the change of ends. Then came the masterstroke from Aizawl's very own master tactician. The 40-year-old Jamil brought in   in the 46th minute. After having his first strike into the goal disallowed for off-side, the super sub got the job done when he put the ball inside the goal from a melee inside the box in the 67th minute.
 
 BAGAN WIN IN VAIN
 
 But with news of Bagan winning 2-1 against Chennai City coming in and Aizawl knowing that they would have to hold on to the draw, it was nervous final minutes for the visitors and Dicka made life still harder for them with some moves inside the box in the added time.
 
