Mohali:   in the absence of having a provision in the annual budget sanctioned for paying the   has failed to clear its pending dues. Sources in the police department said director general of police (DGP) Punjab has directed senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kuldeep Singh Chahal to make arrangements for property tax in supplementary budget and clear the dues.

 As a result of defaulting, municipal corporation (MC) has slapped a fine of Rs 20 lakh as the police department has failed to deposit property tax from the past five years. Police department owes Rs 50 lakh property tax against which the fine has been slapped.
 
 MC has recently issued a list of property tax defaulters in district out of which Mohali police stands as a defaulter for its four buildings and police posts. The buildings have been identified as state cyber cell in Phase IV, NRI wing in Phase VII, CID building in Sector 77, all the police posts located in Industrial Area Phase VI and VII and the residential quarters for the police personnel in Phase I, VIII, and Sohana.
 
 On the other hand SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal said some of the buildings do not fall under their jurisdiction as they serve for the state. “Also we had no provisions in budget to pay the property tax. We have prepared a report and forwarded the same to Punjab government for sanction in order to enable us to pay the property tax. Some of the buildings are also not under our jurisdiction and permission for the same has also been sought,” said Chahal.
 
 Municipal corporation commissioner Sandeep Hans said, “We have received a communiqué from the police department that they are in the process of depositing the property tax. We have slapped a fine of Rs 20 lakh as the police department had failed to deposit the property tax to the tune of Rs 50 lakh from the past five years. Our main aim is to make the recoveries and the further action will be taken if they again fail to deposit the tax.” 
 
 The civic body's official list of nonpayers shows the police department topping with dues worth Rs 50 lakh-Rs 60 lakh. GMADA follows next in line with pending dues worth Rs 25 lakh. Post office buildings in Phases V, VII, VIII, X, XI and 3B1 together owe Rs 2 lakh. Till date Mohali civic body has recovered Rs 7 crore from property owners.
 
 Mohali: Mohali police have no provision in the annual budget sanctioned to pay property tax. Sources in the police department said director general of police (DGP) Punjab has directed senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kuldeep Singh Chahal to make arrangements for property tax in supplementary budget and clear the dues.
 
 Municipal corporation (MC) has recently issued a list of property tax defaulters in district out of which Mohali police stands as a defaulter for its four buildings and police posts. The buildings have been identified as state cyber cell in Phase IV, NRI wing in Phase VII, CID building in Sector 77, all the police posts located in Industrial Area Phase VI and VII and the residential quarters for the police personnel in Phase I, VIII, and Sohana.
 
 In default, MC has also slapped a fine of Rs 20 lakh as the police department failed to deposit the property tax from past five years. Police department owes Rs 50 lakh property tax against which the fine has been slapped.
 
 On the other hand SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal said that some of the buildings do not fall under their jurisdiction as they serve for the state. “Also we had no provisions head in budget to pay the property tax. We have prepared a report and forwarded to Punjab government for sanction enabling us to pay the property tax. Some of the buildings are also not under our jurisdiction and permission for the same has also been sought,” said Chahal.
 
 Municipal Corporation Commissioner Sandeep Hans said, “We have received a communiqué from the police department that they are into the process of depositing the property tax. We have slapped a fine of Rs 20 lakh when police department failed to deposit the property tax to the tune of Rs 50 lakh from past five years. Our main aim is to make the recoveries and the further action will be taken if they again fail to deposit the tax.” 
 
 The civic body's official list of non-payers shows the police department topping with dues worth Rs 50 lakh-Rs 60 lakh. GMADA comes next with Rs 25 lakh. Post office buildings in Phases 5, 7, 8, 10, 11 and 3B1 together owe Rs 2 lakh. Till date the Mohali civic body has recovered Rs 7 crore from property owners.
 
 
