PUNE: Indian students hoping to pursue   are apprehensive following the introduction of a legislation in the US House of Representatives regarding   visa norms. 

 The students are now looking at backup options for their post-graduation from a wide array of countries including Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Ireland and Germany. There has also been an increase in the number of student applications for other European destinations like France, Italy and Spain.
 
 The legislation, introduced in the end of January, mandates that the minimum salary for H-1B visa holders be doubled, which would make it very difficult for US companies to hire foreign workers, including IT professionals from India.
 
 Bhishmaraj Joshi, an engineering student from the city, is planning to complete his masters in computers from a reputed US university and later land a job with an IT major there. However, following the introduction of the legislation, he is also looking at similar study options in Canada.
 
 In the undergraduate segment, Singapore and Dubai are the preferred student destinations. Career counsellors say the courses that students are opting for in other countries are similar to those in the US and might have greater benefits in terms of fees, accommodation and other aspects.
 
 Education consultants, The Chopras, say that at least 100-120 students from across the country have been applying daily to countries that they see as backup options to the US. Founder and chairman Naveen Chopra said, “Our company advises and processes applications for 36 countries worldwide. The number and mix of these countries changes when their regulatory frameworks change. Given the current US scenario, the countries that are seeing increased applications are Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Ireland, Germany, France, Italy, Spain and Singapore.”
 
 Elaborating on the US situation, Chopra said, “Students looking for scholarships will be at a disadvantage as the US, by far, offers the highest scholarship opportunities. Middle-class students, who are looking for jobs after graduating or those who wish to avail of migration opportunities, will also find the going tough if the US goes through with reducing post-study work opportunities for STEM courses and if the H-1B visa programme is curtailed or made more difficult.”
 
 Students who were looking at international options to pursue higher education have already applied for courses in academic year 2017. Those in a dilemma are students applying for the academic year 2018.
 
 Jaideep Gupta, chief executive officer and founder, Univariety, a technology solution that helps students make the best possible choices while selecting graduation courses, said, “Countries like the US, UK and Singapore have always been popular destinations for students. However, in the present situation, much of the student traffic may get diverted to other education hubs like Australia, Canada, Hong Kong and New Zealand. The quality of education and the facilities in these countries are pretty much at par with those in the US. What seems like a negative impact now will not last for long.”
 
 Education consultants said the tuition fees in countries like the US, Australia and New Zealand have always been rather expensive. However, countries like Canada, Hong Kong, Germany and Japan offer education at comparatively lower fees but provide quality comparable to the US.
 
 Don’t panic, Dilip Oak tells students
 
 Dilip Oak Academy, one of the oldest coaching institutes in the city for test preparation for universities abroad, recently issued a circular to its students advising them not to panic because of the goings-on in the US. 
 
 “Students should not get panicky since no executive action has been initiated by President Trump to cancel H-1B visas,” the circular said. “These are only proposed resolutions introduced by a few senators. Similar proposals were introduced in the Senate earlier. All these proposals will be debated in the Senate as well as the Congress.”
 
 The circular said many senators and Congressmen will suggest changes to the draft resolution. 
 
 “A final decision will subsequently be made. The exact date for such a debate has not been declared yet. Therefore, there is no immediate threat of cancellation of H-1B visas,” it said.
 
