NEW DELHI: The   from Lucknow was the original target of the recently busted terror module inspired by the so-called Islamic State (IS). However, the alertness of passengers forced the bombers to abandon the plan and place an IED on the Bhopal-Ujjain passenger train instead, triggering the March 7 blast that injured nine.

 Details of the probe, accessed exclusively by  , reveal that the IS module, after collecting arms, ammunition and explosives, decided on March 1 to carry out some “quick“ action. On March 3 and 4, the module recceed the Lucknow railway station to see how the IED could be safely smuggled into the train.
 
 Interrogation of the module's arrested members, including its `amir' or head Atif Muzaffar, has revealed that around 7.30pm on March 6, he and two others,   and Syed Meer Hussain, boarded Pushpak Express at Lucknow with a bomb given to them by  , the coconspirator killed in an encounter after the blast.
 
 But as luck would have it, they realised that they could not plant the bomb without alerting passengers. They deboarded at Bhopal around 7.30am the next day , and on finding the Bhopal-Ujjain passenger train ready for departure, decided to plant the IED on it instead. The IED was placed in the last passenger coach at 8.30am, after which Atif and Danish fled and joined Syed, who was waiting outside the Bhopal station.They then boarded a bus to Pipariya, from where they were arrested the same day .
 
 According to intelligence agencies, the suspects realised it was Tuesday and that the train would be crowded with devotees headed for a famous Hanuman temple at Bolai station. Atif, 23, leader of the self-radicalised module, was a firm believer in the IS ideology of establishing a Sunni caliphate. An avid follower of the controversial preacher Zakir Naik, Atif used the Rs 70 lakh inher itance he received after the death of his father to further his jihadi mission. He also sold a plot he owned to pay for the activities of the module.
 
 It was in February 2016 that Atif, along with Saifullah, Danish and one Faisal, decided to form a core group. For the next 5-6 months, the group criss-crossed the country to explore ways of migrating to Iraq-Syria. They explored land and air routes, visiting Srinagar, Jaisalmer, Mumbai, Kolkata and Kozhikode.
 
 They then planned on targeting non-Muslims within India and, with that in mind, procured seven pistols from contacts in UP and IED components like pipes, crackers, analogue watches and ball bearings from a Kanpur market. Atif, Danish and Saifullah learnt bomb-making from an IS manual and prepared an IED, successfully testing it in a field near Kanpur. A second test was on the railway track but with minimal impact.
 
