JAIPUR: For every 100 men in  , 59  , according to a first-of-its-kind   on   released recently.

 In sharp contrast, when it comes to work, only 15 women migrate against 100 men.
 
 The state-wise data shows interesting trends on migration. The desert state, known for the high dropout rate among girls, has thrown up some major surprises.
 
 The data shows that 81,666 women migrate from either the state or native city for studies which is 54,000 less when compared to men (1.36 lakh).
 
 The state has done poorly when it comes to sending women for work with only 2.87 lakh engaged in jobs outside city/state as against the figure of 15.54 lakh for male counterparts.
 
 This paints a sorry picture as women in the state seem to be getting fewer opportunities for work in comparison with men.
 
 Sociologist Rashmi Jain, who studied the   pattern in the state, says, “In the past decade, people have become more aware about providing education to girl children. This is a reason why the number of girls joining graduate and post-graduate courses has risen in the state and even prefer to migrate for studies.”
 
 Explaining the reasons why the same has not happened in jobs, Jain, says, “Early marriages, lack of security and the patriarchal society are still deterrents and create a negative ecosystem for women who want to work.”
 
 The factors which determine the migration of women for jobs are—formal sector, security, conducive working hours and good pay package.
 
 “I did my engineering in 2013 and have been jobless for the past one year by choice. The reason is that the pay package is close to Rs 30,000 in Gurugram, which my family thinks is not good enough to migrate,” said Manita Singh, an engineer based in Jaipur. 
 
 The total population who migrated from the state comes to around 2.22 crore.
 
 Another interesting fact highlighted by the data is that only 0.87% women stay with their families after marriage. This is less than the national average of 3%. 
 
 So, 99.13% women migrate after marriage. Sociologist Rashmi Jain points to migration of women after marriage to deep-rooted and embedded social, cultural and religious values.
 
 
