Gurgaon: The number of   from respiratory ailments being reported by hospitals in Gurgaon is rising year-on-year with the city’s consistently high levels of air pollution seen as the exacerbating factor, according to medical practitioners. 

 According to the data collected by TOI, 2,500 people admitted to five leading private hospitals in the city died in the last one year — from April 2016 to March 2017 — because of respiratory illnesses in which air pollution was an aggravating factor. The number of deaths reported in the previous year — from April 2015 to March 2016 — was 1,750, and in 2014 it was stated to be 1,530. 
 
 A comparison of these numbers brings one to a ballpark estimate of a 30% rise in number of fatalities in 2016-17 compared with 2015-16. However, this is only based on data shared by these hospitals. An accurate picture can only emerge once a comprehensive city-wide survey is undertaken. 
 
 The patients who died had been diagnosed with respiratory illnesses such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), asthma,   cancer, pneumoconiosis, anthracosis, silicosis, silicotuberculosis, berylliosis (a chronic lung disease), sinusitis, acute bronchitis, adenocarcinoma and ischemic heart. Air pollution has an exacerbating effect on almost all these  , not to mention the risk of triggering asthma in vulnerable, or even fit, people.
 
 An increase, according to doctors, has also been witnessed in the number of patients undergoing the pulmonary function test (PFT) that measures efficiency of lungs to transfer oxygen into blood. While a total of 5,986 people underwent this test in these five private hospitals in 2015, the number increased to 6,772 in 2016. This year, the number touched 7,000 by June.
 
 Around 50% of those who had undergone PFT in two private hospitals were diagnosed with functional impairment of lungs, while 20-30% patients were found to be suffering from lung impairment in the other three hospitals.
 
 Dr Himanshu Garg, a senior pulmonologist at Artemis hospital, said doctors had seen an unusual increase in respiratory diseases in the city this year, even during monsoon, when rains have a mellowing effect on pollution. “The number of people with respiratory ailments is continuously rising every year. Earlier, most pulmonologists used to take leave during monsoon as footfall dipped during this time of the year. But this year, we have so far conducted at least 400 PFTs a month and are witnessing unusually high numbers of patients with respiratory illnesses at the OPD,” he said. 
 
 Dr Manoj Goel, director and head of department (pulmonology and sleep medicine) at Fortis Memorial Research Institute (FMRI), said a survey conducted by the hospital on lung capacity of bureaucrats in Gurgaon was an eye-opener. “Around 68% employees of the Gurgaon administration reported shortness of breath in varying degrees, according to the 2015 survey. PFTs were done on 100 bureaucrats from Gurgaon. The survey revealed that even those sitting in air-conditioned offices are severely affected,” he said.
 
 Garg also said there had been 5-10% rise in reporting of inflammatory markers such as neutrophil, eosinophil and alveolar macrophages during sputum tests compared with last year. “Sputum analysis is a new clinical tool to diagnose obstructive airway diseases such as asthma, COPD, etc. Presence of inflammatory markers in sputum indicates ill-effects of air pollution on human health,” he said.
 
 Talking about the effect of air pollution on the heart, Dr Upendra Kaul, a Padma Shri-winning cardiologist, said, “Fine and minute particles, especially those less than PM 2.5 (size of 2.5 microns or lesser), are very harmful for health. These particles pass through filters of lungs and enter the blood, leading to excessive clotting and damage to vessel walls of arteries that supply blood to the heart and brain. This can lead to angina (chest pain), heart attacks and brain strokes.”
 
 Earlier this year, a study on global air pollution by the US-based institutes claimed India’s worsening air pollution caused some 1.1 million premature deaths in 2015 and the country now “rivals China for among the highest air pollution health burdens in the world”.
 
 The special report — State of Global Air 2017 — on ‘global exposure to air pollution and its disease burden’ noted that the number of premature deaths in China caused by dangerous fine particulate matter —PM2.5 — has stabilised in recent years but has risen sharply in India. It also said that both countries together were responsible for over half the total global attributable deaths, and that India had registered an alarming increase of nearly 50% in premature deaths from particulate matter between 1990 and 2015. 
 
 
