HYDERABAD: Indian Council of Medical Research ( ) will help the   in the preparation of a standard protocol for screening, treatment and preventive measures to be taken to keep hypertension under check.

 The state government has decided to collaborate with ICMR as studies by various agencies have revealed that nearly 30 per cent of the people aged above 30 years in   have high BP levels and about 10 per cent of these do not even know about it.
 
 Telangana medical and health department officials said negligence in getting treated for hypertension may result in serious problems to heart, brain and kidneys. Also, it is a costly affair to get the complications of hypertension treated.
 
 Doctors said the outcome of untreated blood pressure is same as that of untreated cancer. High BP is a silent killer that can cause significant complications. The consequences of organs getting impacted because of high BP are such that when a person suffers from stroke, he or she may not be able to use hand, leg, speech, and ability to smell also gets impacted.
 
 As per  , about 20 per cent of adults in Telangana suffer from high blood pressure with over 14090. The blood pressure of a healthy person is 12080.
 
 A study by another agency revealed that 30 per cent men and women in Hyderabad in the age group of 40-60 years have hypertension. They are at a high risk of heart diseases.The sample size for the study was 8,952 people who underwent preventive health check-up during January ­ December 2016.
 
 The report states that it has been observed that overall people who came for health checkup, 21.4% urban population and 14.8% rural population are suffering from hypertension. The key finds were that 10 per cent of youngsters in the age group 2530 years regularly drink alcohol and smoke tobacco in form of cigarettes, hookahs, etc., were identified with prehypertension.
 
 The ICMR will take up a comprehensive research to know the reasons for increasing cases of hypertension among adults and come up with a standard protocol including early detection, screening, diet protocol, salt intake, recommendations on life style changes among others.
 
