PUNE: Dejected by the lack of progress in  , her father says he has no choice but to turn to   for answers. 

 The gruesome murder, which took place on December 23, remains unsolved. 
 
 “My family and I are depressed, dejected and disappointed,”   told TOI from Kolkata. 
 
 “It has been so many days but the police in Pune have been not able to find anything about my daughter’s killer. It is nearly a month since Antara was brutally murdered. The police too have stopped contacting me. I came to know about the progress [or the lack thereof] only through newspapers,” he said. 
 
 On December 23 last year, Antara — on her way back from work at Capgemini — was hacked to death on an unlit pavement, just 500 metres from her workplace. The police have since taken   into custody, but with CCTV footage proving his presence in Bengaluru on the night in question, the cops remain clueless about the killer’s identity. 
 
 “I have heard that common people can get in touch with those who matter through social media, and request them for help and assistance,” Debananda said. “While I am not familiar with social media, I will try and send messages [through Facebook, Twitter] to high-ranking officials and leaders who will be in a position to help me,” he added. 
 
 “I will request them to help me find out who killed my daughter and why — a question that has been haunting me and my family,” Debananda said. “Though I have got no complaints with the Pune police, that the case still remains unsolved troubles me everyday. We come from an economically weak family and cannot do much. I do hope that sending requests to those in power will help,” the distraught father said.
 
 Last Monday, first class judicial magistrate H Y Kawale, at Vadgaon Maval, had ordered Gupta’s remand to magisterial custody. The suspect was later sent to Yerawada jail.
 
 “Ample custody has been given to the police,” magistrate Kawale had said, turning down the police’s plea for Gupta to remain in police custody for a further two days. 
 
 Santosh Gunjal, Gupta’s lawyer, said he will try and get bail for his client, a situation that was termed the “worst scenario” by Debananda.
 
