Poonam Pathania, a marketing professional is a regular at   events in the city. However, this year instead of going for regular practice, Poonam has decided to take up self-defense classes before she goes out for her annual   events. Her two-month long regime included tips on how to ward off men who tend to act fresh during such events. And her weapon? The dandiya sticks!

  “Every year I would attend classes to ensure I pick up the right steps for the garba performances. But this year, I wanted to focus on learning self-defense tricks to tackle those who misbehave. Now I can confront the situation without attracting attention, as my counter-attack will be part of my dance moves. I also know that I can use my accessories like oxidised metal bangles, safety pins or waistbands to defend myself,” she said.
  Like Poonam, there are several young ladies in the city who will not depend on pepper sprays or taser guns for self-defense this year. Instead, they have been taking classes to train in basics.
  
  Samaira Shah, who had witnessed some unpleasant situations in the past decided to teach basic defense steps apart from her regular dandiya classes this year. “Often girls suffer silently. And therefore, it is important to train the girls to use their accessories to defend themselves,” she explained. Narrating a horrifying experience, Akriti Bhalla, an IT professional confessed, “Last year when a guy tried to touch me inappropriately, I kicked and injured him with my heels. I have also learnt a few tricks using the dandiya sticks from  .”
 
  Komal Bansal,   evangelist explained, “The dandiya sticks can also be used as weapons during an emergency. You need presence of mind and confidence to tackle people who are misbehaving with you.”
 
  Fitness centres across the city have reported an increase in the number of women signing up for   and other self-defence classes to prep up for the festive season. “I have often seen some men taking undue advantage of crowded areas. I have always been alert, and my training in taekwondo has helped me a lot. And if you thought that it gets cumbersome to defend yourself wearing a chaniya choli, you are wrong. There are steps taught specifically for those who are dressed in such outfits. While playing dandiya, you can even hit someone with your elbow if they are harassing you,” said Rutuja Awhad, a voiceover artist. 
 
  
 
 
  “Over 3,500 police men will be deputed across the city during the festive season, especially in areas where events will be organised. There are several organisations who are working closely with the police, including the Police Mitra sanghatana.”
 
  — Sanjay Baviskar, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Special Branch 1
  
  
  
 
 
  We are planning to have female bouncers to help women in case of emergencies.
 
  — Nikhil Jain, a Dandiya and Garba night organiser at Bibewadi
 
  We have installed CCTV cameras at the venue, but we are also considering the use of drone cameras to keep a watch on the entire area where the event will be held.
 
  — Krupal Thakkar, event organiser at Gangadham road
 
 
