KOCHI: The   has declared as   a clause in   (NET) qualifying norms, finding that it could eliminate   even if they are more meritorious than candidates from  . This violates the right to equal opportunity of general-category candidates, the court said. 

 A single bench of the court gave the ruling after considering two petitions, including one filed by Nair Service Society, challenging the criteria fixed for qualifying in NET.
 
 From the candidates who secured minimum qualifying marks in the NET, a merit list was prepared by selecting the top 15% based on aggregate marks. For the three papers of NET, candidates belonging to categories such as OBC, SC, ST, and persons with disabilities had to score only 5-10% lower marks to secure a pass. In the merit list prepared on the basis of aggregate marks, separate categories were maintained for OBC, SC, ST, and PWD.
 
 It was alleged by the petitioners that such classification resulted in the number of candidates qualifying in NET from reservation categories to be much higher than the general category as more candidates secure minimum qualifying marks in reservation categories due to the lower qualifying marks. This infringes upon the right of general category candidates' fundamental right of equal opportunity in matters relating to public employment, they contended.
 
 Ruling in favour of the petitioners, the court said in the judgment, "When more than 50% of the vacancies in the post of assistant professor in universities and colleges are open vacancies and when NET qualification is mandatory for staking a claim for selection in the said vacancies, a criterion which is likely to eliminate more than 50% of the candidates from general category from acquiring the NET qualification cannot be said to be a valid one, especially when they, or at least a substantial number among them, are more meritorious than the candidates who are NET qualified from the reserved categories."
 
 "For the aforesaid reasons, I have no hesitation to hold that the impugned criteria would infringe the fundamental right to equal opportunity guaranteed to the candidates belonging to the general category under Article 16(1) of the Constitution and hence unconstitutional," it added.
 
 The criterion to be adopted to ensure the right of the reserved categories in a case like this should be one which would ensure justice to the candidates belonging to the reserved categories, equity for the candidates belonging to the general categories, and one that would ensure standards of the higher education system, the court said.
 
 
