A deep sense of disquiet bordering on turbulence continues to prevail at the   ( ) as it gears up for the final leg of admissions on Monday. Existing students may have tentatively called off their three-day protests over the administration’s “arbitrary” decisions pertaining to admissions, but they “haven’t surrendered yet”. 

 What caught their goat is the varsity making it mandatory for students to sign the controversial Annexure III, forcing students to agree to an exhaustive list of diktats, including steering clear of protests and demonstration. 
 
 Terming it unconstitutional and an attack on freedom of expression, they recently called for a protest ‘Burn Annexure III’. Insisting that they are not in favour of the new batch signing any affidavit masquerading as “rules in respect of general discipline”, they fear that the existing batches, too, will be asked to sign a similar undertaking. While they are “waiting and watching as of now”, some of them share their apprehensions about the university’s claim that everything is resolved. 
 
 Hyderabad Times listens in.
 
 Stop curtailing our freedom!
 This affidavit is undemocratic and unacceptable. The administration is sending a wrong message to parents of the students, who have secured admission to UoH, making it seem like this is a centre of illegal activities. We are not interested in protesting; it’s the administration’s failure that has forced us to take this route since there are severe issues related to academics and amenities. We will follow all rules if the administration fulfils its responsibilities properly instead of curtailing our democratic rights.
 —  , general secretary of UoH students union
 
 Varsity rules are undemocratic
 The UoH administration is bent on muzzling democratic freedom. The recent Annexure III and an earlier circular curbing protests at the university are undemocratic and against the principles of the Constitution. They have some fancy ideas on students’ activities and have installed surveillance cameras in the administration building, shopping complex and one of the canteens. Movement on campus has also largely been restricted. 
 —  , PhD scholar 
 
 Will fight tooth and nail
 We launched our protest to demand roll back of policies in the affidavit and admission related issues. The administration has prohibited students from expressing their opinions, even on social media. We called off the stir after they promised to let us know their stand on Monday, when semester registrations of the students start. If they still want to go ahead with the arbitrary rules, we will oppose them tooth and nail.
 —  , UoH students union president
 
 
