Much of the glamour quotient of tourism in Shim la is relegated to Mall Road or the Ridge. But with its old-world charm, the Indian   ( ) is also a powerful draw for thousands of people.

 In 2015, the building generated Rs 65 lakh revenue from entry fee.Last year, it earned Rs 78 lakh, which was around 20% more. The Scottish structure was built under the viceroyalty of Lord Dufferin between 1884 and 1888. Located on the western end of the Shimla ridge, 3.5 kilometers from the main square, it offers a glimpse of India's colonial past and the post-independence period.
 
 Also known as Viceregal Building or Rashtrapati Niwas, the IIAS building served as the viceregal lodge before independence. Afterwards, it became the presidential palace in the hands of the Indian government. In 1965, it was handed over to the  , who started the Institute of Advance Studies here. The building was the seat of the imperial government from 1888 to 1947. Before partition, important conferences and meetings were held here, which were part of the tumultuous run-up to independence. Historic meetings held here include the Simla Conference of 1945 and   of 1946.
 
 The institute was opened for the public in 1991 and was declared a heritage building in 1997. Over the years, there has been a significant increase in the number of visitors.
 
 Of the 2 lakh people who visited IIAS last year, 1.9 lakh were Indian and over 10,000 were foreign nationals. This has made it one of the most lucrative properties. Domestic tourists are charged Rs 40 to enter the building while foreign nationals are charged Rs 85 as entry fee. Those who want to view the building from outside only have to pay Rs 20.
 
 “People throng the place not only to catch a glimpse of history but also to appreciate the colonial architecture and facilities created around 130 years ago. Major attractions inside the building include wood work, impeccable interior design,“ IIAS secretary Prem Chand said.
 
 
 
 Sprawling over an area of 331 acres, the structure, in the past, provided a splendid setting for exotic fairs and garden parties. The colossal task of landscaping the lawns and grounds began during the viceroyalty of Lord Lansdowne. It continued through succeeding regimes. Although it is somewhat smaller today, the estate is still a formidable 110 acres
 
 
 
 
 It was Lord Lytton (1876-80), who chose   to construct the building that was to be the final Viceregal address in town. The first designs for the new viceregal residence were prepared by Captain H H Cole of the Royal Engineers. These were presented before the workaholic viceroy, Lord Lytton, at the Simla Fine Arts Exhibition of 1878.
 
 Lord Dufferin (1884-88) took great personal interest in the matter. He persuaded the secretary of state for India, Lord Randolph Churchill, to sanction the project, which finally cost Rs 38 lakh. The annual upkeep expense of the estate was estimated to be Rs one and a half lakh.
 
 Lord and lady Dufferin moved into the building on July 23, 1888. Among other things, Lady Dufferin took great pleasure in the newly-installed electric lighting.
 
 A fortnight later, the Dufferins held their first entertainment.
 
 A total of 66 people sat down to dinner at the table and while the electric light was enough, candelabra were used for ornamentation. The new building could host over 800 guests.
 
 Embellished with wrought stonework, the main block has three storeys and the kitchen wing has five. A tower rises above the rest of the building. Its height was increased during Lord Curzon's tenure (1899-1905). In Lord Irwin's time (1926-31), a public entry building was added. That was in the year 1927. The character assumed by the building at the time remains till date.
 
 The Viceregal Estate passed into the hands of the President of India after Independence in 1947. The spectacular building was renamed 'Rashtrapati Nivas' ( ) and came to be occupied by the President if at all for only a few days in a year.
 
 
 
 
 1 The first designs for the Viceregal residence were prepared by Captain H H Cole of the Royal Engineers. These were presented before the Viceroy, Lord Lytton at the Simla Fine Arts Exhibition of 1878. Lord Dufferin (1884-88) took great personal interest in the matter.
 
 2 Lord Dufferin persuaded the Secretary of State for India, Lord Randolph Churchill, to sanction the project, that finally cost Rs 38 lakh. The annual expense of upkeep of the estate was estimated to be Rs 1.5 lakh.
 
 3 Henry Irwin was appointed architect and chief superintendent of works. F B Hebbert and   were associated as executive engineers. With them were three assistant engineers A Scott, T Macpherson and T English.
 
 4 The overall plan of the Lodge was suggested by Lord Dufferin, who repeatedly examined and modified the drawings. The machinery of the   was placed in high gear and work on the site began in 1886.
 
 5 The architecture of the structure that finally came up drew inspiration from the English Renaissance. At the same time, it had a pronounced influence of the castles of Scottish highlands.
 
 6 From June 25 to July 14, 1945 the Shimla Conference was held at the Lodge and it was attended Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, Maulana Azad, Liaqat Ali Khan, Bhulabhai Desai, Master Tara Singh and Mohammed Ali Jinnah.
 
