NAGPUR: It seems that the   conducted by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Wednesday was quite a downer for the students. A lot of them felt that it was  

 Many students said that it was an okay exam, while most discovered it to be really tough. TOI spoke to some of those students and they had a variety of things to say. 
 
 Students Naman Golchha said that the paper was too lengthy. “The paper was really lengthy. The good thing about it was that nothing was asked from outside the course. I completed the paper 5 minutes before time. But when I talked to my friends, I discovered that they couldn’t finish the exam. They too found it lengthy. But overall, it was a good paper.”
 
  said, “The paper was quite difficult. There were more questions pertaining to journal entries than accounts and I found those hard. There were also a few debenture-based questions which were tough to crack. But apart from that, the paper was okay. I did the best I could.”
 
  was quite disappointed. He hoped that the CBSE would go for lenient checking. “As compared to previous years’ question papers and the sample papers that I had solved, the paper was really really tough. We expected some questions that were guaranteed. We had prepared all night for those questions. But they were not asked. I hope that since CBSE gave such a tough paper, they go easy on checking.”
 
 “The paper was really tough. It was the worst. It was not at all according to the prescribed standard. The questions were tough to answer. I would like to point out question No. 22. It was too technical and was not from the syllabus. It was the worst exam till date. I am very disappointed with how the exam went,” said a very disheartened Palak Chhabra.
 
 Smita Daniels, a teacher at Centre Point School, Katol Road, said, “I would say that the paper was 20% difficult. It was a standard paper, but the students found it quite lengthy. But I believe that the students who regularly studied and gave tests honestly should have faced no problems. It was a good question paper set by CBSE.”
 
 
