Tirupur: Following reports of dyeing units letting out effluents into Noyyal river, a team of officials from the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board inspected the river and Manickapuram irrigation   at Mudhalipalayam on Saturday. 

 The team, led by TNPCB’s joint chief environmental engineer, Coimbatore zone, Gokuldoss, tested the river and the tank water for total dissolved solids (TDS) level. The results of the test, conducted 10 days after complaints made to the board, revealed 2,600 parts per million (ppm) from the sample taken in the river and 1,100ppm from the tank. 
 
 However, a TNPCB official said since the hand-metre equipment was used to measure TDS, it may not be accurate. Proper laboratory tests will be conducted, he added. 
 
 During the first week of September, Manickapuram villagers found that the industrial effluents were discharged from a Common Effluent Treatment Plant (CETP) at Kasipalayam into the river and subsequently into Rajavaikkal, the canal which drains into Manickapuram tank. The CETP reasoned that it had accidently discharged the effluent. 
 
 Refusing to buy the CETP’s position, the TNPCB temporarily sealed the plant and its 23 member dyeing and bleaching units. “It was a routine inspection which would be held whenever the pollution is reported. The JCEE has inspected the river and the tank. The CETP has been sealed," said a higher TNPCB official.
 
 Meanwhile, Dyers Association of Tirupur conducted its 26th annual general body meeting in the city on Saturday and urged the state government to reduce the electricity tariff to Rs 2 per unit to the dyeing and bleaching units. The dyeing units said that the higher cost involved in treating the coloured water tends them to discharge the effluents, which is against the zero liquid discharge (ZLD) norms.
 
 The association also demanded the Union government to implement the ZLD in all other parts of the country, otherwise, the dyeing and bleaching units in the dollar city should have to compete in the unequal ground, said a press release.
 
 When the Madras high court in 2011 directed to close down the dyeing units which did not have effluent treatments plants to ensure the ZLD norms, the state government had provided Rs 200 crore loan, without interest, for establishing the ETPs in Tirupur. Now, the association has requested the government to write off the loan to assist the dyeing units which are already facing financial crisis.
 
 
