BENGALURU: A day after  , a young face in the JD(S), tried to carve out a   for himself by accusing his own party of  , party supremo and   said: “The boy’s future doesn’t seem bright if he continues in this fashion.”

 Hurt by the comments, Gowda said he has never indulged in suitcase politics and will not spare Prajwal. “It does not matter if he is my son or grandson. I will not dilly-dally over taking action against Prajwal,” Gowda told reporters.
 
 Addressing a party workers’ meet in Hunsur (Mysuru district) on Thursday, Prajwal had said that loyal workers are made to sit at the back and those who come with suitcases get a seat in the front. Prajwal has been working in Hunsur and plans to contest from the constituency in the 2018 assembly polls.
 
 Gowda said Prajwal’s hot-headed comments don’t augur well for his growth in politics and will create problems in future. The JD(S) supremo said his main agenda was the party’s survival and not make way for family members to enter politics. Trying to play down Prajwal’s remarks, Gowda said a few of his grandson’s followers were intentionally trying to mislead the young scion.
 
 In Mysuru, Prajwal’s father H D Revanna played down his son’s comments and said a final decision will be taken by Gowda. Former minister A H Vishwanath who has recently joined JD(S), declined to comment on the statements, adding that seniors in the party will respond to it. 
 
 State JD(S) president and Gowda’s son H D Kumaraswamy had said no one except him Revanna would get tickets. However, Gowda on Friday said: “Bhavani (Revanna’s wife) and Anitha (Kumaraswamy’s wife) may contest. But barring these two women from our family, none of the other women will get tickets.”
 
 
 
 
 The entry of Vishwanath, a Kuruba leader, has disturbed the political equations between Kumaraswamy and Prajwal. The Hunsur segment has two lakh voters, of whom both Vokkaligas and Dalits are a major chunk. There are over 30,000 Nayakas and 25,000 Kurubas besides 14,000 Lingayats and 13,000 Muslims.
 
 A section of JD(S) leaders is favouring Vishwanath as it fits the caste calculations, while Prajwal has been actively working with party workers in the segment since January, reaching out to people and meeting local leaders. Vishwanath, who rebelled against chief minister Siddaramaiah and quit the Congress last month, is eyeing the constituency, which is leading to tension within Gowda’s family over which all members should contest.
 
 Speaking with regard to Anitha, Gowda said it was but natural that she was seeking his approval to fight the polls. “Just because some one is asking for a ticket, he/she cannot contest. We need to support and assist her. I will speak to Anitha about this,” he said.
 
 Anitha has already held a series of meetings with the party workers in Channapatna, Ramanagara district and indicated that she will contest from the segment in 2018. She has contested twice from the constituency, winning in 2008 and losing in 2013.
 
 
 
 
 While Prajwal Revanna was given a stern warning, JD(S) national president and former Prime Minister H D   suggested that he was still soft hearted towards his grandson. To bring about a truce in the family, Gowda hinted that Prajwal is likely to succeed him as the candidate for the Hassan Lok Sabha seat. “I am not strong enough to contest parliamentary elections again. My health is failing. Aspirants for the Hassan seat are yet to be finalized,” he said.
 
 
