RAIPUR: Levelling charges on Chhattisgarh's Koriya district collector of beating up a government school teacher for being absent from duty and keeping the school unclean, more than 50 teachers demonstrated in front of police station and made a complaint against the  .

 Over 500 teachers on Saturday from across the district took out a rally before reaching Turripani police station. 
 
 Nearly 5000 teachers plan to stage demonstration on Monday in front of collector’s office and would keep the schools shut.
 
 The incident took place on Friday when the IAS officer   was on a surprise visit to a government primary school at Turripani in Sonhat block of Koriya. 
 
 According to information, not finding the teacher in school, the collector fumed and also scolded him for keeping the school unclean. 
 
 He allegedly slapped him twice on his cheek in a fit of rage. Several attempts to contact collector Narendra Dugga went unanswered as his numbers were out of range. 
 
 Talking to TOI, the victim teacher  , who is also the only staff in school, claims that as it was a festival of ‘Naag panchami’, the attendance was low hence, he had gone to collect students from village who often prefer to bunk school. 
 
 "I wasn’t absent from duty in stead I went to collect students and had also brought three of them along but as I returned, the collector was fuming and started scolding me in front of students and villagers. I wasn’t expecting he could raise his hand and he suddenly slapped me twice before insulting and misbehaving with me,” Singh said. 
 
 He added that Dugga was also upset with dust and dirt in school and he asked me why didn’t I broom the floor, “But I am the only staff in school, there’s no sweeper, no principal nor any other teacher. Though there was another teacher who has been attached to a government hostel. I alone teach students of Class I to V.” 
 
 Huge group of teachers went to police station and submitted a complaint but police refused to lodge an FIR, said a teacher.
 
 Turripani police station in charge told TOI, “A complaint letter has been submitted in the case by teachers and we would lodge FIR only after preliminary investigation.” 
 
 Now, agitated teachers plan to stage demonstration against the IAS officer in front of collector’s office on Monday with participation of over 5600 teachers and would keep the schools shut.
 
