CHANDIGARH: In the big fight between  ,   and   in  , there are three others who are contesting this closely watched election.

 Though largely overlooked by mediapersons converging to the star constituency, the trio -comprising an accused in a rioting case, another who has been booked for defiling a place of worship, and third who quit his job at a private college due to “political interference“ -is unperturbed by challenge ahe ad. Meet Aapna Punjab Party's Manmander Singh, Punjab Labour Party president and its sole candidate Gurmeet Singh Ranghreta, and candidate of SAD (Amritsar) Baljinder Singh.
 
 Ranghreta, a Mazhabi Sikh, is demanding reservation of the CM's post in at least seven of the 28 states in India.For SAD (Amritsar) candidate Baljinder Singh, focus is on local issues despite the fact that the constituency might decide direction of state politics. “Look at the manifestos of the three (main) parties. They are impractical. My biggest issue is the water supplied in Lambi. It's causing cancer and jaundi ce,“ he says.
 
 Though he is from a splinter group of AAP , Manmander has the same aim as that of the Arvind Kejriwal-led party -to uproot Akalis and Congress from Punjab. “I'm here to win the elections without using any kind of money power,“ claims Manmander, whose friends pit ched in with the money to help him file his papers and campaign for the elections.
 
 While Ranghreta was booked for rioting in Bathinda on October 19, 2012, Manmander was charged with defiling a place of worship on May 1, 2014.Both claim the cases were a result of their political affilia tions. “My family traditionally supported SAD. When we started supporting AAP , a group of SAD members assaulted me.When I retaliated, police came and filed a cross complaint. Later, they didn't even take my complaint into account and booked me alone,“ says Manmander, who hails from Mansa but is contesting from Lambi as he has relatives and friends there.
 
 Ranghreta claims he was booked during a protest by Dalits outside Bathinda bus stand to demand plots for homeless members of the community . “It is a fabricated case,“ he says.
 
 Baljinder worked at a Malout-based private college until December 23, 2016. “ As the elec tions were approaching, they started asking us to go to SAD rallies. It was unacceptable to me, especially because the incidents of bir sacrilege have taken place during CM Badal's rule,“ he says.
 
 Out of the three candidates, only Ranghreta has fought elections earlier. He had contest from Lambi and polled 356 votes only . “That does not affect me. I'm still going to fight for rights of Dalits in Punjab,“ he says. Baljinder says, “Paaji, main MLA di seat lai nai lad reha. Ehey taan loka nu ohna dey haq vaarey dassan di koshish hai (Brother, I'm not fighting for the MLA 's seat. This is to tell people about their rights).“
 
