MUMBAI: In an attempt to escape the clutch of police, a 24-year-old   and his two aides walked into the cyber crime police station on Friday posing as   and tried to conduct a sting operation on the investigation officer. They wanted to blackmail the senior police inspector of the   to not take any action against the accused. However, their spy camera did them in.

  said that on February 17, the trio—Navi Mumbai residents Shailendra Pandit (34), Parmeshwar Singh (22) and Rituraj Gupta (24), who is wanted in a cyber crime case— walked into senior inspector Neeta Phadke’s cabin in the cyber crime police station flashing identity cards that showed they were Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) officials. “They greeted with ‘Jai Hind’, which is usually done by personnel from the force. They said they wanted to inquire about the cases that I am probing,” Phadke said in her complaint lodged with BKC police. 
 
 A BKC police officer said, “Pandit introduced himself as special officer of CVC. They started questioning about the cases that Phadke is handling and her interest in specific cases.”
 
 However, Phadke felt something amiss when the trio started to focus on a particular case. And the sting operation came undone when she spotted a spy pen camera in the shirt pocket of one of the accused. Subsequently, Phadke handed over the trio to BKC police. Police found that the three men had fake CVC identity cards and fake letterheads with names of CBI officers.
 
 “The spy camera has been seized. The trio said Phadke had zeroed in on the whereabouts of Gupta in a cyber crime case. Their aim was to trap Phadke and blackmail her to not take action against Gupta,” a police officer said, adding that though Phadke had traced Gupta’s location, she didn’t know how he looked. “We are also probing how many officials they have blackmailed this way,” the officer added.
 
 Phadke, who has served in various departments, including anti-corruption bureau, was unavailable for comments. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Cyber) Akhilesh Singh said the BKC police is probing the case.
 
 They have been booked under Indian Penal Code sections 34 (common intention), 170 (personating a public servant), 174 (non-attendance in obedience to an order from public servant), 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), and 506 (II) (criminal intimidation). They are in police custody till February 20.
 
 
