It all started only over a year ago. Fourteen year-old   developed an interest in boxing after watching her younger brother Saqib play at the National Games. She insisted on playing the sport and was at first told a ‘no’. She didn’t give up the idea, putting her parents in a dilemma. “In Muslim culture, girls are generally not encouraged to play sports. But it is not as strict as we show. I asked a few people in our community. Even though several opposed the idea, there were a couple who encouraged me. In the end, she is not doing anything wrong. This is just a game, and we try to follow our culture as much as we can,” says father Akram Khan, a constable at police headquarters and a resident of Awasthi Nagar. Akram’s eldest son Sahil is also a national-level cricket player.

 Having clinched her first national victory with a silver at the 62nd National School Games held in Gwalior last year, Alfiya is on the cusp of representing India, and possibly the only girl in the city to be a boxer. She started off by winning the Nagpur District Boxing Association’s competition in January, followed by Maharashtra Boxing Association’s championship held in February in Parbhani, both last year. She has also won the gold in the state-level interschool boxing competition and divisional school sports competition. All this in a matter of a year.
 
 Every morning at 5.30, Alfiya puts on her boxing gear. Along with her father Akram, she exercises at the police ground, after which she heads to school. Come evening, she practises at the Mankapur stadium. Her father stays with her all the while. “I’ve opted for night duty so that I can accompany her all times. I even go with her for all tournaments. DCP Deepali Mhsailkar has been very supportive,” said Akram, a former sprinter himself. “I was interested in boxing but couldn’t pursue it due to financial problems. I thought, come what may, I’ll make my children play sports of their choice,” adds Akram.
 
 Alfiya’s shorts are longer than her opponents’, she wears a thin T-shirt underneath her boxing tank top and a hijab till she enters the club. Coy and stoic, she is a girl of few words. “The best part about boxing is that you get to fight,” she says very matter-of-factly.
 
 “Alfiya benefits from weight, height and age. Her strong grasping power has enabled her to perform exceptionally in such a short term, and she has good chances of winning bigger titles,” says Ganesh Purohit, a National Institute of Sports-certified coach. Alfiya is 5’8, and participates in the 71kg-77kg category.
 
 Alfiya’s example is starting to motivate other girls in the community. “My daughter Soha Alvi is in Std V and was inspired by Alfiya and she took up to playing badminton. Its time we get out of the orthodox mentality that Muslim girls shouldn’t play sports,” says NG Alvi, dean of SB Jain Engineering college, and a resident of Awasthi Nagar.
 
 
