MOHALI:   at commuters in the monsoons in the Tricity when most of the roads get clogged. In Zirakpur, it is not just the water accumulated on roads that troubles those driving vehicles but the water falling from the flyover adds to their woes. 

 The drainage system of the Zirakpur flyover is made in such way that the rainwater flows via multiple pipes and falls on the vehicles below from an approximate height of 50 feet. The problem gets worse when the visibility is not great, the wipers are moving at medium speed, vehicles are moving bumper-to-bumper and people on two wheelers and pedestrians are inching along side.
 
 Kulbir Singh, a local resident of Zirakpur, showed via pictures clicked from his cellphone water falling from the flyover on vehicles below, especially two wheelers. There are almost seven to eight such points where these ‘waterfalls’ are visible. Some of the daily commuters have found out that the hard way that every time they are beneath the flyover on either side of the flyover, after every 50m there’s a storm drain that channels the rainwater on to the vehicles below.
 
 Kulbir said that, “I live here in Zirakpur and the day this flyover was built, we have been facing this problem ever since. This becomes a matter of concern when visibility becomes poor, especially during night time.”
 
 Besides this, the force with which the water falls on cars does cause minor dents on bonnets and tops. The wiper alignment and moving wiper blades are also affected by this. It has been observed that due to this run-off of water maximum vehicles change lanes trying to avoid the ‘waterfall’ that at times cause traffic chaos and sometimes even lead to small accidents. 
 
 Kulbir added that, “The engineers who designed this expensive piece of civil work that took many years for completion never thought about this water run-off from the 50-foot height on vehicles and people. They had no idea about the danger of letting water drain in this manner on motorists.”
 
 The suggestion he makes is quite simple. He maintains, “The NHAI should come up with some plan and they should harvest this rainwater or they should channel the drainage of water right under the flyover into  .”
 
 
