HYDERABAD:   into the pantheon of heroes, but these   can be easily bought without even picking up the gun at blazing LoC or standing ground on frigid Siachen. Just walk through the   in Secunderabad, shell out just Rs 2,500 and walk out as a decorated army officer with all the trappings of uniform and medals pinned on the badge.`Tailor copies' or exact lookalikes of army medals are up for grabs and can be bought for a price as small as Rs 40-180 in private outlets not just in Lal Bazar, but also at Regimental Bazar, Mehdipatnam and Golconda.

 And here's the shocker.Soldiers flock to buy medals as the Army takes an abominably long time to hand over awards.Except for gallantry awards,   of practically every medal is up for sale.
 
 This correspondent was able to buy several such medals and badges.An entire uniform set was also bought. There have been several instances in the country, particularly in Kashmir, where terrorists in army fatigues have carried out attacks. They have easy access not only to uniforms, but also to badges as well as medals for flaunting.
 
 At a shop at Lal Bazar, this reporter had only to convince a shop-owner dealing in military goods that he needed medals. Though not on display , these were taken out from a box on the shelves.
 
 On occasions like Republic Day and Independence Day , medals for personnel of the three services, paramilitary force and police are announced by the government.
 
 While gallantry medals have names and army number of the recipient, others don't.
 
 This reporter could also buy a medal for participating in the 1991 Kargil conflict, code-named “Operation Vijay“. The `Samanya Seva Medal' for designated operations and the `Uchch Tungta Medal for serving in high-altitude operations were also bought with appropriate ribbons.
 
 “What other medals do you want,“ asked the shop-keeper.When this reporter asked for other availabilities, a Police (Special Duty) Punjab medal with a clasp was displayed.This had an engraved Ashoka Chakra with a ribbon. An original Suraksha Special Service medal was also bought, apart from a Sena Medal.
 
 Another medal to commemorate the 50th anniversary of Independence was also available for sale and had been bought.
 
