BHOPAL: State capital’s largest tertiary care hospital has undergone a major cosmetic change, nearly a month after the ‘surprise’ inspection by chief minister  . 

 Sparkling floor of in-patient wards, new upholstery and presence of bedsheets, is the visible change. It comes with presence of staff, doctors and guards. At the entrance gates of each ward sometimes there are more guards than nurses. 
 
 Medical ward are most guarded, given the infamous fights with angry patients and their attendants. Four such instances in the last four weeks led to junior doctors threatening a near shutdown of hospital services.
 
 The cleanliness has been visual and literal. Shockwaves from the shunting of Gandhi medical College (GMC) dean and appointment of a new superintendent of its associated hospital are still being felt. The presence of anti-social elements on the campus has reduced, claimed administration officials. Swaach Bharat mission has also reached   hospital. and some 90-tons of hospital waste has been recovered and disposed by BMC. 
 
 Some equipment considered dilapidated have also been declared functional. CT-scan (Gamma) machine used for oncology diagnostics is not being utilised for normal CT-Scan. Eleven tests have been conducted on Monday alone. Since 2010, Hamidia hospital has been relying on use of CT-Scan machine with the gas relief department, located within GMC campus. That machine too has been out of order for months. 
 
 Old dynamics of working is giving way to the new. Directorate of medical education (DME) has announced February 15 as the date for start of construction of new Rs 450 crore super speciality wing. It would take two years to complete. 
 
 Preparing for another surprise visit of politicians or top bureaucrats, there are brand new signages. Sanitation and cleanliness has improved and hospital superintendent’s office has implemented an emergency drug store to make available drugs for trauma victims 24x7. Emergency unit will have a dedicated pathology for sample collection of trauma and emergency care victims. Awaiting a culture test report, hospital will add two new operation theatres in next four days. 
 
 CM to visit Hamidia again: In a review meeting on Monday looking into developments at GMC, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan informed he would visit the government hospital for medical check-up, highly placed sources said.
 
 
