Ahmedabad: Despite the state government’s Waste to Energy Policy-2016, offering urban local governments the best way out to deal with their ever-growing garbage dumps, only 24% of daily garbage in urban Gujarat is recycled. The rest contributes to growth of garbage dumps. The facts were revealed in data tabled by the Swachh Bharat Mission, Gujarat.

 The data also shows that important municipal corporations like Rajkot, Jamnagar and Junagadh are yet to create any facilities to recycle waste.
 
 According to the state government’s Waste to Energy Policy-2016, Gujarat has the potential to generate approximately 100 MW of power from solid waste. The potential has been assessed taking into account all eight municipal corporations and 162 municipalities.
 
 Thankfully, Ahmedabad, recycles 31% of its daily domestic waste, even though the city produces 4,000 tonnes each day. In comparison, Gandhinagar Municipal Corporation, which maintains the state capital, recycles only 8% of its daily garbage of 75 tonnes.
 
 Taken together, eight municipal corporations and 162 municipalities in the state generate daily domestic waste of 10,145 tonnes, with only 2,402 tonnes being recycled. Officials from the state government Swachh Bharat Mission said that things will soon grow better as not just Ahmedabad, but even Surat, Rajkot, Vadodara, Jamnagar and Bhavnagar are setting up plants for power generation. AMC will soon upgrade its facilities to generate 45 MW from 3,000 tonnes of garbage. Pravin Patel, standing committee chairman of AMC, said that the civic body has signed two memorandums of understanding for converting 2,000 tonnes of waste into energy. The Gujarat Electricity Regulatory Commission has fixed the rate of power purchase and hence the generation of power would begin soon. Interestingly, officials say that Bhavnagar generates only 200 tonnes of garbage, but it recycles more than 65%, while Vadodara and Surat Municipal Corporation recycle only 16% and 12.5% of their waste, respectively. Officials said that with GERC fixing the rate for AMC, the remaining firms in five municipal corporations, too, will be benefitted. According to the Centre’s policy, power will be purchased at around Rs 7 per unit and the central government will subsidize the purchase. The state government has already adopted the same policy. The AMC will not incur any burden for setting up these power generation units.
 
 
