BHOPAL:   will decide on names of its candidates for Ater (Bhind) and Bandhavgarh (Umaria) assembly by-polls at the   meeting scheduled here on Wednesday.

 The by-polls have become politically significant and a prestigious as it would be the last by-polls before the next general elections to the state assembly in November 2018. By-elections for Ater and Bandhavgarh (ST) assembly constituencies would be held on April 9 while, counting of votes would take place on April 13.
 
 Ater assembly seat fell vacant due to the demise of former leader of opposition (LoP) and Congress MLA Satyadev Katare after prolonged illness. Similarly, by-poll to Bandhavgarh seat was announced after incumbent MLA and state minister Gyan Singh was elected to the Shahdol (ST) Lok Sabha by-election in November last year.
 
 As the last date for filing of nomination for both the seats is March 21, the party is believed to have reached a consensus over the name of former MLA Arvind Singh Bhadoria for Ater and Shivnarayan Singh, district panchayat member from Umaria and son of Lok Sabha member Gyan Singh, for Bandhavgarh assembly seat, said sources in the party.
 
 The party’s strategy for winning both the elections was made clear when the state leadership agreed to shift Munna Singh Bhadoria, former MLA and one of the claimants of the ticket from Ater, as vice-president of Beej Vikas Nigam (seed development corporation). The party also gave him the status of minister of state (MoS).
 
 Munna Singh was earlier appointed as vice-president of MP Housing Board, but he had refused to accept the post. After his appointment in the seed corporation Munna Singh was again unhappy as he wanted status of a cabinet minister. The party, however, successfully retrieved the situation by convincing Munna and giving a clear indication on the name of Arvind Singh as the next candidate from Ater.
 
 Bhadoria, who had lost to Katare in 2013 had defeated him in 2008, and has been camping in Ater from almost two months, now. The contest also assumes significance because these would perhaps be the last by-elections before the assembly election in November 2018 and would set the tone for the big battle, said sources in the party.
 
 The Congress will field late Satyadev Katare's son, Hemant from Ater in all likelihood. Hemant has been touring the area extensively after his father's death.
 
 On Shivnarayan’s name, BJP leaders have unofficially given a nod, however, minister Gyan Singh is waiting an official declaration so that he can relinquish his cabinet berth. Singh has been holding on to the cabinet seat even after his election to LS. He was lobbying for his son.
 
