Chennai: A new bi-partisan bill to be introduced in the US will have far more serious ramifications that any other Bill introduced in the past, said analysts.

 With the Republicans having a majority in the Congress, any new proposal will likely fall in line with President Donald Trump vowed intention of "Buy American & hire American."
 
 “Immigration issue to be of key investor focus going forward as any change could impact flexibility and increase the costs,” said Citi research analysts.
 
 Wedbush analysts also said that the H1B visa program issue is clouded with uncertainty. "Commentary suggesting potentially abolishing the program could materially impact the traditional offshore and onsite delivery model," the added.
 
 So why would the current bill have more serious repercussions that ones introduced earlier? Analysts said, bill introduced by Senators Chuck Grassley and Dick Durbin had more curbs, than that introduced by Darrell Issa, whose main provision was setting a higher H1B wage threshold. 
 
 The new legislation aims to further prohibit visa issuances, increase costs of onsite personnel, and devise new criteria under which visas could be awarded.
 
 “These are still only in the proposal stage. But, in the current political climate it is to be expected that newer bills will seek to be tougher. The new Trump government has made it clear they are not an advocate of the H1B visa. Their efforts going forward will be to tighten the programme,” said Mark Davies, an immigration attorney in the US.
 
 JP Morgan said that if the US sought to change the criteria for awarding H1B visas -- the move from the current lottery system to an auction, wage or education-based system will result in higher visa fees. HCL, on Tuesday said that it would hiring more locals in the US. A decision that all IT companies might follow suit, if there is an invocation of the "50:50 localisation rules, which would result in IT companies, having to hire at least 50% of their workforce from the US."
 
 “Minimum H1B wages thresholds specified in the bills will increase and there will more severe rationing/regulation of visas issuance. The new bill lays down that non-immigrant dependent employers would not be issued further H1B visas — which would definitely impact India IT’s onsite-offshore business model,” said JP Morgan, adding that among tier-1 firms, Wipro and HCL are relatively better protected than TCS, Infosys and Tech Mahindra. 
 
 But there are also other risks with the new bill. “You could be more preferential or conditional issuance of H1B visas. I think the Trump regime would be interested more in investments from India via a programme like EB5 than in a skilled-workers programme like H1B,” said Davies. 
 
 Analysts also suggest that H1B visas are likely to be issued on more preferable terms to those having advanced STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Math) degrees in the US, which only a small percentage of Indian IT workers in the US have.
 
 Another proposal that might have an impact is the non-displacement clause. “The employer will not displace any US employee that is similarly situated as the H-1B worker for 180 days before and 180 days after the H1B petition is filed. This does not seem feasible to us to carry out as clients that award project to offshore vendors employing H1B workers may not be able to wait that long in case vendors have to use H1B visa workers, assuming local US nationals/permanent residents are not available so easily,” said JP Morgan in its research note.
 
 
