NAGPUR:  's wait to play in the World Cup continued as the city's centre back, representing India in the   (IHF) Continental Trophy, missed the qualifying berth in Bangkok, Thailand.

 Having ended a 10-year-wait of an international handball player from the city, the 19-year-old was optimistic to win the yellow metal and qualify for the World Cup. The experienced Korean outfit, however, handed India a heartbreak 26-37 defeat in the semifinal. At the halfway mark, Korean girls' aggressive approach gave them a handy 19-8 advantage. Though the Indian team fought back after the break, they fell short. With this 11-goal defeat the Indian women's team missed the two qualifying berths for the World Cup. Despite losing the semifinals the Indian team was eager to stand on the podium. In the bronze medal game, India registered 39-36 victory over hosts Thailand to bring home a medal from the continental tourney.
 
 "We all wanted to play the finals and were eager to qualify for the World Cup but those Korean girls were too fast. In the semifinals we started on a positive note but came a bit under pressure that gave Korea good lead at the halftime. We made a comeback in the second half but fell short," Poonam told TOI after she came back to the city on Monday.
 
 
  Poonam Kadav with coach. (TOI Photo)
 
 A student of Sharirik Shikshan Mahavidyalaya, Koradi, Poonam added, "After losing the semifinal to the eventual champions Korea, we all decided to come back home with at least a medal and gave our best to defeat Thailand. Happy to win the bronze medal but I will always regret losing the semifinal. I learnt a lot from that defeat and will now work hard to fulfill my dream of playing in the World Cup."
 
 On her arrival to the city, Poonam was received by her coach and handful of handball lovers. As a member of Friends Club, Poonam trains under Dadoji Kondev Awardee   and Shiv Chhatrapati Awardee   at Yeshwant Stadium. She also received valuable inputs from state coaches   and Pankaj Kothari. 
 
 Poonam's performance at the Continental meet was applauded by  , president NDHA, BR Akre, Vijay Barse, former mayors   and Kunda Vijaykar, Vipin Kamdar, Atul Durugkar, Pankaj Kothari, Milind Makde, Rajkumar Naidu, deputy director Subhash Rewatkar, DSO Avinash Pund and all members of NDHA.
 
