LONDON: Face shorn of makeup and hair pulled back in an awkwardly bunched ponytail,  , the newly crowned Wimbledon champion, spoke of an urgent task that needed her immediate attention. "I have to find a dress for the gala," the 23-year-old said, flashing her dimpled smile. "That's my priority now."

 Asked which of the men's finalists she would like to dance with at the Wimbledon Ball, she picked  , but was quick to add that she liked   too. "I want to see if he's that elegant also when dancing," she said of the 35-year-old Swiss.
 
 Muguruza, who lost in the title-round here in 2015 in her first major final, and won the French Open last year, said winning a Slam was the result of everything, the many parts of her play coming together. "It's hard to find a recipe to feel good fitness-wise, tennis-wise, mentally. I think in this tournament I put everything together," she said. "Normally you're tired, I feel pain, my confidence is not there. I felt in this tournament I somehow managed to put everything together and perform."
 
 As Muguruza's coach Sam Sumyk was away with his wife, former player  , who is due to give birth, Spain's Davis and Fed Cup captain Conchita Martinez weighed in with her expertise for the Wimbledon fortnight.
 
 Muguruza took a leaf out of her mentor's book. Back in 1994, Conchita beat the then 37-year-old sentimental favourite   to win the Wimbledon title. Up against another popular figure in Venus, Muguruza said she had blocked out all external factors going into the final. "I'm like it doesn't matter who is the favourite here. We both have 5050 chances," she said, adding that Martinez told her, "To think of the final as just another match."
 
 The Wimbledon champion, now back in the top-five of the world rankings, said she was most impressed with Venus' longevity, especially given the battles the American has had to fight. "I'm surprised that she's hungry to keep winning. She has won almost everything. She's not young any more, she just shows this toughness," Muguruza said. "I don't know if I will be like this at her age. Probably won't because she's the only one. She keeps winning, makes two finals of Grand Slams this year. She's probably one of the best players today."
 
 Muguruza, who didn't have the best of starts in the final, sending down a double fault to start her opening service game, said, she likes playing on the big courts. "In every match I play I'm nervous, I think it's a good thing. Here, once I go to the big court, I feel good. I feel like that's where I want to be, that's what I practice for. That's where I play good. I'm happy to go to the Centre Court and to play the best player. That's what motivates me."
 
 The Spaniard went into the French Open as the defending champion, but exited the tournament in tears after going down to France's Kristina Mladenovic before a partisan home crowd last month. She said, despite what happened in Paris, defending a title was a good problem to have.
 
 "It's good when you win, and it's hard when you come back and have to defend it. But that's a good problem to have," she pointed out. "It was tough, you have a lot of matches to go. You wanted the trophy back. But I'm happy to be in this situation. I'm happy that once again I see myself winning a Grand Slam, something that is so hard to do. It means a lot. It means a lot of confidence."
 
 "I always come motivated to the Grand Slams. Since I lost the final here, I wanted to change that," she said. "This time I came thinking I'm prepared, I feel good."
 
