PUNE: State revenue Minister Chandrakant Patil is all set to replicate Pune division’s “zero pendency and daily disposal” model across the state.

 With the model bringing about a citizen-friendly administration and clearance of files within the stipulated time frame, the minister is set to review the progress of Pune division and announce replication of the same across the state.
 
 Speaking to TOI on Friday, Patil said that the division has been implementing zero pendency and daily disposal of cases since June. “We have regular updates from the division, which includes districts of Pune, Satara, Solapur, Kolhapur and Sangli. Pendency of files has reduced, so also the daily disposal of cases, as compared to other districts. I had seen Pune divisional commissioner Chandrakant Dalvi’s presentation in the revenue meet and, after another review, we would consider implementing the same in the entire state,’’ he told TOI.
 
 The revenue meeting, which was held in Pune two months back, had taken a detailed assessment of the model by   and a government resolution (GR) was to be issued in this regard. Patil said that he was to review division-wise progress of cases and a decision would be taken on the same.
 
 Meanwhile, Dalvi said that the model was implemented in the division wherein over 288 metric tonnes of unwanted papers, stocked up in five district collectorates, were disposed of. Nearly 217 offices do not have any pending files, Dalvi told TOI. He further added that nearly 44 lakh unused files and papers were cleared in the process and a guideline was issued to all the collectorates to maintain the system and take a note of the monthly progress. Rural development minister   has instructed all zilla parishad offices to follow this system and a GR will be issued to this effect.
 
 According to the divisional commissionerate, 56 talukas, 32 sub divisions, 97 branch offices and 29 sub branch offices participated in the drive that involved nearly 5,417 officials. 
 
 “Bundles of permanent files, files to be maintained for 30 years, files for 5-10 years and those that have to be destroyed have been readied by officials from all departments,’’ stated the divisional commissioner.
 
 The divisional commissioner instructed all revenue officers attached with district collector offices to clear pending files and address complaints. He also directed revenue officials not to go on tour on Mondays and Fridays and asked them to meet citizens between 3 pm and 6 pm in their respective offices on those days.
 
 
