NAVI MUMBAI: Growing differences between   and elected representatives in the   has inconvenienced city residents to a large extent. 

 None of the projects worth above Rs 25 lakh proposed by the civic administration has got administrative nod from the general body due to differences between Mundhe and corporators, including mayor Sudhakar Sonawane. 
 
 This stalemate has persisted for several months with no clear solution to the imbroglio in sight. As a result, citizens have been denied the right to enjoy many basic civic amenities.
 
 The civic commissioner enjoys the power of sanctioning projects below Rs 25 lakh and above the amount. All proposals have to pass through the general body for further tendering and execution of work. Observers said, the city has not witnessed any such big-ticket projects due to the ego clash between officials and corporators. Because of this confrontation, residents are feeling the pain of deteriorated infrastructure.
 
 As many as 19 development projects for all nodes proposed by the civic administration have been blocked by the corporators for more than once, resulting in inordinate delays in executing works. These include developing footpaths, ramps, drainage, roads, circles and electric poles, shifting feeder pillars, providing healthcare facilities, beautification of lakes, cleaning of nullahs among others.
 
 According to officials, works worth Rs 70 crore have been trapped in the process for over six months, pushing the city a year behind its growth chart on the development front. Major portion of the budget relates to barrier-free and walkability concept initiated by the civic administration. Remainders are appropriated for recreational facility, roads, healthcare and drainage.
 
 NMMC senior officials allege that the proposals were not taken for discussion and approval in the recently held back-to-back general body meetings on February 15 and 17. “The projects were simply sidelined without any reason. They are trying to scuttle my proposals, which are need-based rather than demand-based. The house members have blocked these projects more than once. I am doing everything for the larger interest of citizens,” said Mundhe.
 
 Sonawane, said, “Many proposals have to be verified to establish their genuineness. We will take up the proposals for discussion in the next general body meeting scheduled on February 22. Citizens can’t be taken for granted for rivalry between the civic chief and elected representatives. We have to take care of people’s interest.”
 
 
