GAYA: With 119   (MU) teachers working in post graduate departments, 44 constituent and four deficit grant minority colleges retiring this year, the faculty strength in the resource-starved university is set to dip to about 40% of the sanctioned strength. No recruitments have been made since 2003. In 2016 also, 118 MU teachers reached the age of superannuation.

 As per official figures, the number of sanctioned post of teachers in MU is 3,037. Of these, 2,099 posts are for the PG departments and 36 for old constituent colleges of the university. Altogether 715 sanctioned posts are earmarked for the eight constituent colleges. The number of sanctioned posts in the four deficit grant minority colleges is 223.
 
 In the PG departments and 36 old constituent colleges, as against 2,099 sanctioned posts, the number of teachers, as on January 1, was 812. Another 83 teachers in this category would be retiring by end of the year. In case fresh appointments are not made, the faculty strength may come down to 729 by the end of the year. 
 
 The situation is somewhat better in the eight new constituent colleges. As against 715 sanctioned posts of teachers in these colleges, the number of working teachers is 368.
 
 The number of sanctioned posts in the four deficit grant minority colleges, as per records, is 223. Of these, 45 posts are vacant and the number of working teachers in the deficit grant minority colleges, including MG College, Gaya and  , Patna City is 188. The record of these colleges in respect of faculty recruitment, however, is better as compared to constituent colleges.
 
 Conceding acute faculty shortage, MU VC Md Ishtiaq said he can do little in the matter as the university authorities do not have the power to recruit teachers, a job outsourced to the  . “I have asked principals and HODs of PG departments to hire the services of retired teachers to at least partially make up for faculty shortage. However, the response of retired teachers has not been very positive,” said the VC.
 
 About two years back, the Bihar Public Service Commission advertised 609 posts of assistant professors for MU. The university is yet to receive the recommendation of the commission for appointment against vacancies notified by the BPSC. 
 
 
