MUMBAI: Both   and   have begun parleys to explore options ahead of the mayoral polls.

 A section of the Congress is against extending any kind of support to the Shiv Sena in the BMC. “We have strongly opposed the Sena on all fronts and now if we support it, a wrong message will go out to minorities,“ he said.
 
 “Congress is unlikely to take a decision till the Uttar Pradesh elections are over. If Congress steps in now, it will have an adverse impact on its prospects in UP,“ he said.
 
 Ashok Chavan said though Congress leaders from the state met in Mumbai on Friday, there was no discussion on supporting the Sena nominee in the mayoral election. “The role of Congress will be crucial in the mayoral election. So far we have not taken any decision, we are watching the situation,“ he said. Matoshree is not averse to the idea of seeking Congress support to keep BJP from wresting mayoralty, sources said. The Sena-Congress link dates back to the 1970s when   had excellent equations with Congress stalwarts such as Y B Chavan, Vasantrao Naik and Vasantdada Patil, a party leader pointed out.
 
 Efforts were on at Matoshree to tap new allies--NCP (9) and MNS (7), for instance. Yet, the Sena-NCP-MNS' combined strength of 103 would not near a simple majority. Sena president Uddhav Thackeray has convened a meeting of newly-elected corporators and senior leaders on Saturday to deliberate on the post-poll crisis in the party.
 
 The BJP is keeping its option open of contesting the city mayor's election should the Sena thwart its overtures, sources said. The BJP, which has 82 seats, has drawn up a twin strategy: sending feelers to Sena for reconciliation while weighing the possibility of installing its own mayor. The Sena is aware of the BJP's “duplicity“, said the party leader. “We are waiting and watching the political scenario,“ he added.
 
 “CM Fadnavis would love to have a BJP mayor in case Sena rejects his overtures,“ said a BJP leader. The state BJP's core committee discussed the issue with Fadnavis at Varsha, the CM's official residence, Friday evening.
 
 The plot has become interesting as Nitin Gadkari has said the BJP and Sena should put the past behind them and team up to take control of BMC. “A lot of things happen during elections, a lot of things are said in the heat of electioneering. But BJP-Sena should bury the past and come together,“ said Gadkari. “The BJP-Sena share a common ideology. We have come together on the issue of Hindutva. I don't see any difficulty in the two parties coming together again,“ he added. State BJP minister Chandrakant Patil has voiced similar views, while Mumbai BJP chief Ashish Shelar has said the party would respect Gadkari's and Patil's “sentiments.“
 
 Uddhav may find it difficult to go back to BJP after his vitriolic onslaught against PM   and Fadnavis during the poll campaign, said observers.
 
 Uddhav parried questions of reviving ties with BJP. “Let me soak in the victory atmosphere,“ he said.
 
 NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik said, “Congress and NCP together have 38 votes, will have to take a decision on whether to participate in the voting process or abstain.“
 
