LUCKNOW: State’s economy may look up as   Government issues an   formula to heads of all departments. It tells the officials to check duplication of   so as to cut the burden on the   exchequer. 

 “Many similar schemes are being implemented by Union and state governments, respectively and letting only the Central schemes run will reduce the burden on the state,” read the notification bearing the formula from chief minister Yogi Adityanath. 
 
 The cost of Samajwadi Ambulance is borne by the state government though Union ministry of health and family welfare had funded a similar projectThe yogi government has now brought the scheme under the purview of National Health Mission which will help the state save over Rs 100 crore. 
 
 Another significant step is to check   of ongoing projects to save time and cost. Sources cited the example of Jai Prakash Narayan International Center in this case. “The initial project cost of JPNIC stood at Rs 265.59 crore in March 2013 and it rose to Rs 615.44 crore by the time its detailed project report arrived in December 2014,” sources in state urban development department told TOI. 
 
 The formula is part of an advisory issued by the department of finance and was issued by additional chief secretary finance Anup Chandra Pandey on May 19. It came up after Yogi and his ministers brainstormed over UP’s dismal financial status in April.
 
 It also discouraged undertaking new construction projects unless essential and to ensure cent-percent utilisation of buildings that are ready. It tells officials to transfer any cash to beneficiaries through direct bank transfer (DBT) or public financial management system (PFMS).
 
 The step, say officials, aims at improving the state’s financial status. According to data from the state finance department, a clear gap exists between earnings and expenditure. Estimates for the current year shows that government needs Rs 3,63,744.95 crore to meet its expenses while it will be able to earn about Rs 3,56,679.10 crore – the deficit being of Rs 7,065.85 crore. 
 
 Data also suggests that state’s burden of loans has also gone up significantly in the past few years. Against a debt of Rs 15,512.49 crore in 2016-17, state’s loan is expected to cross Rs 21,000 crore mark this year. 
 
 
