ROHTAK: Indian Institute of Management, Rohtak, will conduct the   (CAP) for admission into the new IIMs for the   (PGPM) for the 2017-19 batch. After the announcement of CAT-2016 results, the shortlisted candidates will be required to appear for a personal interview and written ability (PI&WA) test for admission into IIMs at Rohtak, Ranchi, Raipur, Trichy, Kashipur, Udaipur, Amritsar, Bodh Gaya, and Sambalpur.

 The new PGPM batch in all new IIMs will commence from July 2017.   -- which conducted the CAP earlier also -- will share the results with other IIMs post-evaluation. Last year, CAP was conducted by IIM Kashipur. An official of IIM Rohtak told TOI that their institute had decided to give more weightage to women and candidates from non-engineering background in the admission process. “The criterion for each IIM has been included in their admission policy, which can be found on their websites,” he said.
 
 IIM Rohtak strives to balance its male-female students ratio by giving more weightage to women candidates, and ensuring a healthy mix of students from diverse backgrounds. The students shortlisted for older IIMs might not have to appear for the CAP, as some of the older IIMs will share their PI&WA test score with IIM Rohtak. Those candidates who have been called by more than one older IIM will have their scores averaged with other IIMs, where they have been interviewed. Finally, the scores of PI&WI Test will be shared with other IIMs participating in CAP, who will then make their own merit lists according to the normalised scores.
 
 The dates of PI&WA, along with the locations will be put in public domain after the   are out, said an IIM-R official. In 2016, the cut-off percentile for general category of PI&WA test was 96, for other backward classes (OBC) it was 75, 65.3 for scheduled castes (SC), and 60.8 for scheduled tribes (ST) at IIM Rohtak. Sources said the percentile this year was likely to remain unchanged. IIM Rohtak came into existence in 2009 in Haryana, and its PGPM intake ranges between 150-160 candidates in every batch.
 
