THRISSUR: Union minister for environment  , who died on Thursday, had both   and   among the environmentalists in Kerala.

 He had a close association with the  , fondly called Nila, and was one of the founders of the Nila  . The organization was planning to hold a National River Festival at Nila and Dave was to attend the programme on June 3.
 
 His sojourns on the banks of various important rivers of India had included Nila. “He had camped for two days on the banks of Nila then and had walked from Palakkad to Ponnani, through the areas where the river flows,” said Vipin Koodiyedath, the secretary of the Vichar Vedi.
 
 He had then visited the cultural centres along the banks of the river, including the Vedic Village at Panjal, Thunchanparambu, Thirunavaya and Thrithala, which is known for its association with the legend of Parayi Petta Pathirukulam.
 
 According to Vipin, he had been supporting the various programmes of the Vichar Vedi even after becoming a minister.
 
 Kerala State Biodiversity Board chairman Oommen V Oommen said he was saddened by the demise of Dave. “He was supposed to preside over the annual biodiversity conference to be held later this month. We were expecting to have a detailed interaction with him on issues relating to the Western Ghats. Also on the cards were discussion on the amended Kasturirangan report the final draft of which is being prepared by the MoEF,” he said.
 
 However, environmentalists like S Faizi, member of the expert group on biodiversity and development of the UN Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD), said the minister’s performance was often disappointing in terms of the conservation of environment or the protection of the rights of the deprived sections over the natural endowments.
 
 According to him, the recent clearance given by the genetic engineering approval committee (GEAC) of the environment ministry for commercialisation of GM Mustard is one example of an environmentally-negative decision of the ministry. There have also been significant moves to water down the Forest Rights Act which ensured numerous livelihood rights to the tribespeople, Faizi said.
 
