PATNA: “Aapko chacha kehta tha, aapne mere saath aisa kiya. Aapko sharm nahi aayee (I used to call you uncle and this is what you did to me. Aren't you ashamed)?” asked an emotional   looking at his successor deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi in the Bihar assembly on Friday.

 The 29-year-old first-time   oozed confidence while he delivered his first speech as leader of opposition during the floor test of the Nitish Kumar-led NDA government, less than 36 hours after virtually being dethroned as the deputy CM. 
 
 Tejashwi ceased to be the deputy CM on Wednesday evening after Nitish, then heading a government in alliance with   and  , put in his papers.
 
 The former Ranji cricketer devoted major part of his 45-minute speech to pan his former boss Nitish and projected self as the guinea pig in Nitish’s “secret gameplan” to return to the BJP. “Didn’t you know my father (Lalu Prasad) was a convict in a fodder scam case when you allied with us for the 2015 assembly election? You used me as a pawn in your game-plan,” he said, addressing Nitish.
 
 He said he was never asked to resign, but Nitish would have gone back to BJP even if he would have quit. “You (Nitish) would have then come up with another ploy to break ties with us because you had inked a deal with BJP six months ago,” he said.
 
 Tejashwi reminded Nitish of his bitter remarks against PM   and even read out a poem Nitish used to recite while electioneering in 2015: “Behti hawa sa tha woh, Gujarat se aaya tha woh; Kaala dhan laane wala tha wo, Kanha gaya usse dhoondho”.
 
 In an oblique reference to the claim of Nitish’s JD (U) that his face ensured the win of Grand Alliance in 2015, Tejashwi pointed out Nitish’s party fought the Lok Sabha polls alone in 1995 and got seven seats, which was reduced to two in the 2014 polls. “Why didn’t the clean image fetch votes then? Nitish-ji needs either BJP or RJD to win power,” the rookie politician said.
 
 He asked Nitish if he would continue to oppose lynchings by cow vigilantes now that he has allied with BJP. “Hey Ram- Hey Ram karte-karte, Jai Shree Ram ke goud mein chale gayein,” Tejashwi said and added a veteran like Nitish kowtowed to the BJP-RSS out of fright even as he, despite being young, took on them.
 
 Accusing Nitish of promoting “self-centric” politics, Tejashwi asked him why he wasted the state’s time by forcing on it four governments in four years since 2013 (when Nitish quit and made Jitan Ram Manjhi CM after BJP projected Modi as its PM face) if he had to go back to BJP after all. 
 
 “It adversely affected governance and caused loss of government revenue as the official machinery remained confused. All this happened only to suit the personal vested interests of one individual, who is Nitish,” said the former deputy CM.
 
 
