PATIALA: Just two days after vice-chancellor   put in his papers, the   of Punjabi University here has demanded an inquiry into his functioning, alleging that he led the university to bankruptcy during his nine-year tenure.

 In a letter to Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday, the day he took oath as the 26th chief minister of Punjab, university teachers claimed that Jaspal’s term witnessed major financial, administrative and academic irregularities pertaining to the recruitment, construction, purchases of construction material, computer equipment, instruments, out-sourced work, publication bureau, promotions, papers and stationery and use of university cars.
 
 Demanding a comprehensive probe against the VC, the teachers said it needed to be ascertained how and under what circumstances a financially vibrant university at the time of joining of Jaspal in 2007 turned into a bankrupt entity, which was not even in a position to meet its day-to-day expenses.
 
 Prof Jaswinder Singh Brar of the economics department and convener of the front said, “The financial pendency of the university was monumental with a deficit of about Rs 150 crore, which consists of delay in payment of gratuity, leave encashment, medical reimbursement, GPF deposits coupled with unprecedented delay in opening of   accounts, non-transfer of money to NPS accounts and other such irregularities.”
 
 He alleged that the university in the past had paid huge amounts of money in the form of high interest on continuous over-drafting, which drained university resources and brought it to the brink of bankruptcy. The front claimed that the VC went on to create superfluous posts to adjust his ‘cohorts’ with ulterior motives, which had jeopardized the university functioning. Prof Brar said the prolonged bad governance ultimately led to 18 days delay in the payment of salary in February and there was uncertainty about the timely payment of salary in March too.
 
 “Keeping these factors in mind, the CM should constitute a high-powered committee to dig out the reasons that have led the university to bankruptcy,” he added.
 
 The front also demanded that all officials appointed by the outgoing V-C using his discretionary powers should immediately be removed from key positions, so that the inquiry could be conducted in a free and impartial manner. The front also demanded that an academic of impeccable integrity and vast experience should be instated as the VC. 
 
 
