CHANDIGARH: As the stage is set for talks between the Haryana government panel and the leaders of Jat community, chief minister   on Friday made it clear that his government would not withdraw cases related to heinous crimes in the violence during last year's agitation.

 A panel of Haryana government headed by chief secretary D S Dhesi and other officers would be meeting the Jat leaders on Saturday in   to resolve the ongoing agitation. The talks would begin around 10.30am at the oil refinery near Panipat. All India Jat Aarakashan Sangharsh Samiti (AIJASS) president   would lead the delegation, comprising five persons from each district, representing the Jat community.
 
 Speaking to TOI over the Jat reservation issue, the CM said he was ready for a dialogue for prevalence of peace in the state and accept those demands of Jats which were legally permissible. “We are even ready to withdraw minor cases related to cutting of trees or of similar nature but would not agree to appease anyone. If the demand would be to withdraw cases against those facing heinous charges for previous (February 2016) violence, we will not accept that. Even the Punjab and Haryana high court is monitoring the cases registered during the February 2016 incidents and we cannot agree on any point which goes against the court,“ he added.
 
 When asked about the involvement of any minister or leader of ruling BJP in Saturday's talks, Khattar said only the government-constituted panel members would talk to the protesters as they were well aware about the social, legal and other aspects of the issue.
 
 “I have given full liberty to the five-member panel to take a decision to resolve the issue. All legislators and other leaders of our party have unanimously agreed for the resolution of the matter and there is no disagreement on any point,“ CM added.
 
 Khattar also claimed that the Jat agitation in Haryana would not have any impact on Uttar Pradesh elections as people there understand that issues of the two states are different.
 
 Malik said they were firm on their demands regarding withdrawal of cases against those booked during the 2016 agitation and other issues.
 
 The state government had constituted a five-member committee headed by chief secretary Dhesi on February 7, to resolve problems of those agitating for reservation in Haryana.
 
