With the intention of extending a helping hand to the disabled and less fortunate people, especially kids, the embassy of   (UAE), in collaboration with Sun Foundation, Rashid Centre for the Disabled and FICCI, organized 'A Gala Night of Hope' in Delhi recently. The evening, which which also included an auction to raise funds for the children at both the foundations was attended by delegates from Dubai and the   in India and other business and Bollywood personalities. 

  
  (L-R)  , the chief guest at the event,   and Khadija Albanna
 
 
  
 Sheikh  , from the royal family of UAE, was the chief guest at the event. It was organized under the guidance of Dr Ahmed Albanna, ambassador of UAE and his wife Khadija Albanna. Vikramjit Singh Sahney, the chairman of Sun Foundation, along with Ahmed Hashim Khoury, chairman, Rashid Centre, held an exhibition displaying the talents of the students from the foundations. 
 
  
  (L-R) Lojain Omran, Sunil Sethi and  
 
 
  
 The auction included the leather jacket worn by Shah Rukh Khan in Dilwale, a lehenga worn by Deepika Padukone in Chennai Express, boxing gloves signed by  , and paintings by the students. SRK's leather jacket was sold for Rs1,60,000, and Deepika's lehenga for Rs1,00,000. Actress Raveena Tandon also attended the event. She said, "It is an honour for me to be a part of this night organized by these foundations that have been working really hard for women and kids. I would like to thank everyone who is a part of this beautiful cause."
 
  
  
 
 
  
 Apart from the auction and the exhibition, the evening also saw various entertaining performances. Emirati singers Fayez AlSaeed and Abdullah Bel Khair sang some Arabic songs and sitar maestro Ustad Nishat Khan performed a beautiful composition. But the special performers of the evening were the students from the foundations, who put up a dance performance with full gusto. 
 
  
  Vikramjit S Sahney, chairman, Sun Foundation with Dr Ahmed Albanna, ambassador of UAE 
 
 
  
  (L-R) Devir Singh Bhandari, Aruna Oswal and Chetan Seth (BCCL/ Samik Sen)
 
 
  
  LITTLE PERFORMERS: The children from the foundations during a dance performance at the event (BCCL/ Samik Sen)
 
  --Richa.Sharma1@timesgroup.com
 
 
