NAGPUR: While partly allowing Akola-based father’s  , the   allowed him to meet her once in a month, with a view to create a bond between them.

 He had challenged Akola Family Court’s verdict rejecting his application for the minor’s custody. Interestingly, he and his wife were divorced, remarried and had children from new partners, and this minor girl remains their only link.
 
 “A small request is made on petitioner’s behalf, who is undisputedly the girl’s father, that he may be permitted to meet the daughter at least once in a month. It would be necessary to create some bond between them, as their relationship is of the daughter and father,” the court stated.
 
 The man was, however, told to clear   to be paid to the girl, if he’s really desirous to meet her.
 
 “While directing the mother to grant daughter’s access to petitioner, it would be necessary to ensure that he clears arrears of maintenance liable to be paid to her. If he’s desirous of meeting daughter, it would be his duty to pay the maintenance amount,” the division bench said.
 
 The father, who is now working in Satara, was directed to meet daughter on Akola Family Court’s premises on third Saturday of every month. He would be allowed to meet her for two hours, but in presence of court counsellor. During each visit, he would deposit Rs3,000 towards maintenance arrears payable to the daughter. Additionally, he would pay to and for charges of both mother and daughter.
 
 The court, however, granted liberty to the mother to discontinue their meetings if the man failed to deposit maintenance amount during every visit. He was also told to inform in advance if he wants to cancel his scheduled visit, so that both mother and daughter wouldn’t be required to unnecessarily travel to Akola from Khamgaon, where they were currently staying. 
 
 The couple tied nuptial knot on May 20, 2003, and were blessed with a girl, nine months later. Thereafter, their relationship turned soar and they finally separated on June 17, 2006. The custody of daughter was kept with mother, as she was minor at that time. 
 
 In 2014, the man moved an application in the family court for getting   for providing her quality education and all necessities for her overall development. He pointed out that his former wife was busy with her two daughters from the second marriage, and wasn’t able to properly look after their minor daughter. The minor was residing with wife’s parents, who’re too old to look after her needs. Even his second wife and mother were ready to look after minor. Though he attempted to meet her, former wife prohibited and threatened him with false criminal cases.
 
 Denying all allegations, the wife contended that the man filed petition with a view to avoid maintenance amount to be paid to the daughter, which he had defaulted over the years. 
 
 However, the lower court rejected his plea on April 4, 2014, which he challenged in the higher judiciary.
 
