The Department of Technical Education (DTE), Kerala released the rank list and first allotment list for admissions to various polytechnic institutions in the state today. The students who had registered for the Polytechnic Admission 2017 can check the official websites - www.polyadmission.org and www.sitttrkerala.ac.in for their result. 

 The online process of Polytechnic Admission is conducted by the technical education department to fill the quota of regular seats in government polytechnics, government aided programs/ government seats in self-financing programmes, management seats under aided programmes and under NCC/ Sports quota for the academic session 2017-18.
 
 For the academic year 2017-18, a total of 11,670 seats are available in 51 government & government-aided polytechnic colleges, apart from 3,055 seats in self-financing institutions, said a report from DTE. 
 
 
 
 
 Polytechnic Colleges in Kerala provides diploma education through 43 Government Polytechnic Colleges, 6 Government Aided Polytechnic Colleges and 15 Self Financing Polytechnic Colleges. 20 Diploma Programmes in Engineering/Technology and Commercial Practice/Management are conducted in these Polytechnic Colleges. Special Diploma batches for the Hearing Impaired students are also conducted at three Polytechnics namely Kerala Govt. Polytechnic College Kozhikode, Govt. Polytechnic Colleges Kalamassery and Women's Polytechnic College Thiruvananthapuram. Details of the institutions and Diploma programmes are available on its official websites www.polyadmission.org and www.sitttrkerala.ac.in
 
 
 
 
 Directorate of Technical Education is dealing with all the technical education activities in the state. Currently there are 12 Engineering Colleges (9 Govt. Colleges and 3 Govt. aided Colleges), 51 Polytechnic Colleges (45 Govt. Polytechnics and 6 Govt. aided Polytechnics), 3 Fine Arts Colleges, 39 Technical High Schools, 17 Commercial Institutes and 42 Tailoring and Garment Making Centres functioning all over the state, under the control of the Directorate. In addition to this there are around 150 self financing Engineering Colleges both in the Govt. and private sector functioning in the state.
 
 
 
 
