PANAJI: Komal Thatal has come a long way. Hailing from Sikkim, the state that gifted the country the legendary Bhaichung Bhutia, the midfielder has crossed many a hurdle while moving from Sports Hostel, Namchi, to realising a long-cherished goal of playing for India in the   U-17 World Cup.
 
  The effort has taken him from the chill of home to the heat of Goa in the wake of which the lad has met challenges and endured hardship.
  
  Selected to the AIFF regional academy in Goa in 2014, Komal would settle for no less than a place in the India team and reflects on the early days of his stay in the state.
  
  “It was very difficult in the initial stages. In Sikkim it is very cold compared to Goa and I gave my everything to get selected in the team. It was very hard for me but I learned a lot and the journey has been great. I made it up to here and I hope to give my best for India,” said Komal.
  
  On October 6 in Delhi, Komal will put years of hard work to the test as India play the United States in the opener of the biggest   event the country has ever held.
  
  “Not only me but the entire team wants to do something big in this World Cup,” said Komal.
  
  The hosts are in Group A along with Colombia and twice champions Ghana. The team may be the weakest on paper but, coached by Luis Norton de Matos, who took over the reins just seven months prior to the tournament, have the potential to stretch their opponents.
  
  “There are players who have better quality (in the US team),” said Komal looking ahead to the opening match. “Our first goal will be to progress to the second round.”
  
  The midfielder stole the limelight last year during the BRICS U-17 tournament in Goa when he scored the equaliser in a 1-3 defeat to Brazil. But unknowingly, Komal created a piece of history by becoming the first Indian to score against the Selecao at any level. He collected the ball on the left flank and teased his way past two defenders before finishing with his right foot.
  
  “At that moment it wasn’t that great for me because it was just an equaliser and we lost the match. I recollected the goal after the game and found it pretty cool,” said Komal, who honed his skills under coach Suren Chhetri at Namchi.
  
  “He (Suren) said that I have talent but have to work on my speed and decision making. He picked me because I had something in me. In Sikkim, we love our football which draws huge crowds. I attended matches and soon started playing the game when I was seven years old,” said Komal.
  
  Komal is a keen follower of Brazilian football and idolizes Liverpool star Philippe Coutinho and PSG’s Neymar Jr. Born to a family of tailors, Komal credits his folks for unfailing support. “Whenever I asked them for boots and footballs, they never refused and always encouraged me,” said Komal.
  
  Komal is excited yet focussed on the first match. Not for him are the temptations of individual play. Instead, he endeavours to follow the prescriptions of de Matos who stresses on teamwork.
  
  After his ‘first’ against Brazil, the young Sikkimese bids fair to break new ground at the World Cup and beyond.
