Chennai: Over the last few years, the Motor Vehicle Bill has met with widespread criticism and opposition from major political parties. The main reason was because the bill sought to cap the liability of insurers, when it came to claims' payouts. For example, if the court declared that the victim's family should get Rs 60 lakh for death, then the insurer ended up paying only Rs 10 lakh (the tariff/cut-off) and the driver/owner of the accident-causing vehicle the remaining Rs 50 lakh.

 This put undue burden on vehicle users, felt many political parties. Now the same measure to limit the insurer's liability and place the burden on the consumer/policyholder is being brought in a new avatar. Under the provisions of the new bill, which has been passed by the Lok Sabha, the central government will have the power to prescribe ‘a base premium’ and the insurer's proportional/relative liability to that premium. What it means is the basic-third party cover offered will cover accidents only to a certain extent; for unlimited liability against any accident, policyholders will have to shell out more in premiums. “For years together the bill met with strong opposition only because of this clause. If this is reintroduced, the government is leaning in favour of business houses and acting against consumer interests,” said R Sankariah, industry veteran and insurance activist. When a person dies from a road accident, the court usually decides a compensation amount based on the person's monthly income and what his loss would mean for the family's resources. With salaried professionals earnings on the higher side these days, courts have pronounced compensation awards as high as Rs 1-2 crore. "While this is in the best interests of the bereaved family, it does cut into the profits of insurance companies; something that they would like to avoid if they can,” said Sankariah. Activists point to the futility of trying to recover accident compensation from individuals. “If the government makes the insurer's liability proportional to the base premium — then the bereaved family would suffer. Imagine the court decrees Rs 40 lakh as compensation, and for example only Rs 10 lakh is to be paid by the insurer; how will the person driving the vehicle pay the remainder (Rs 30 lakh to the bereaved family? Most normal middle-class individuals will sink into debt before they can afford to pay such an amount. Or the other scenario would be that they will not pay — and the bereaved family will suffer,” said Sankariah.
 
 
 
