CHENNAI: They saw, but they don't feature as witnesses in police records. Their narration is dismissed as being coloured with imagination, but their emotions are real. The men in khaki, they say, aren't our protectors.

 “They beat our people. I saw it,“ said Swaresh*, an 8-year-old from Nadukuppam, whose play area just outside his house has been reduced to a heap of ashes, mangled metal and two burnt vehicles. The children in the fishing hamlet which bore the brunt of the January 23 violence following the protest know no politics or owe allegiance to any faction. They believe what they saw.
 
 “A policeman caught me by the collar and pushed me. He let me go when my aayah shouted at him,“ said Swaresh, a Class IV student who hid from the violence in an auto with three friends. His friend Deepak, with a hint of bravado, said they later joined the crowd and hurled balloons filled with water and chilli powder at police.
 
 “They are heroes in our school. Our classmates keep asking then to repeat their experiences. We all clap for them,“ said Archana, 9.
 
 When a bystander pointed out that it was wrong to attack people, Aditya*, a sevenyear-old, retorted: “What about what the   did to us? We saw them hitting our people with sticks and throwing stones. They attacked us and questioned our brothers like they are criminals.“
 
 Most of them are in  . Calls to the principal went unanswered but a teacher, on condition of anonymity, said the violence has had an impact on the children. “It isn't fear as much as anger. They are used to see ing police come and round up youngsters in their neighbourhood.
 
 Several stories on why Nadukuppam came in the firing line have been doing the rounds -police claim they were instigated by `antisocial elements' and residents countered by saying they were just caught in clashes between police and the public. But the bearing it has had on the hamlet's children remains indelible. K Vijayan, a clinical psychologist who recently retired from the Institute of Mental Health, suggested immediate psychological counselling for these children. “Their story is the start of all juvenile offenders' stories -of oppression and distrust in the law. They don't see policemen as people who are there to help them but as people who harass them,“ he said.
 
