Lying on the southern tip of  ,   offers a relishing treat to lovers of both natural beauty and agriculture. Its deciduous forests, exotic water sources, expansive cashew plantations, lush green agriculture fields and its dairy farms help this Sanguem   to carve its own distinctive identity.

 The two rivers of Seraulim and Netravali criss-cross Netorlim, which is home to 4,000 persons of whom 2,800 are registered voters. It shares its borders with five villages including two in Karnataka, Kundal and Nuji, Mangal and Cazur in Quepem and Curdi-Vaddem in Sanguem.
 
 “Netorlim is famed for its tourist spots and its agriculture. The waterfalls like Mainapi, Saveri, Udenti and Pali, the wildlife reserve, the cashew trees and the milk production exercises a magnetic pull on both tourists and locals alike,” says Krishna Parwar from Margwada. Netorlim has seven panchayat wards, and ‘vadde’(traditional village wards) like Bandawada, Karke, Gharativaddo, Margwada, Zamkhkhadap, Gavaliwada, Dongri, Salginim, Nunem, Jakem, Taliwada, Patwada, Dabal etc. Its village panchayat consists of the revenue villages of Vinchundrem, Nunem and Verlem/Tudou.
 
 Residents’ Speak
 
 Netorlim is truly blessed by the Almighty as it prospers and thrives with both greenery and abundant water sources around the year. There is no scarcity of water. Our village is also doing well in dairy farming. There are over 500 cows and three dairy societies. In addition, cowdung is used as an important source for manure for agriculture crops
 
 Damodar Laxman Gavali | resident
 
 The villagers are proud agriculturists. In addition to cultivation of paddy and growing vegetables like chilly, sweet potatoes and fruits like bananas, mangoes and pineapples, Netorlim has carved a distinct place in the area of cash crops like cashew, coconut , sugarcane, areca nut, nutmeg, pepper etc. The cashew plantation provides income to almost all the villagers. It is a serene village where both Hindus and Catholics live in complete harmony
 
 Ayetin Mascarenhas | resident
 
 Sarpanch’s take
 
 Netorlim comes under the protected wildlife buffer zone and all efforts have to be made to enhance its tourism potential under the aegis of sustainable development which protects the fragile environment. This step on the part of the state government would act as a great aid to tide over the critical issue of unemployment which affects the village youth 
 
 Shashikant Gaonkar | sarpanch 
 
 RENOWNED RESIDENTS
 
 Dr Kamlakant Prabhudesai is an ophthalmologist who practiced for 35 years at Margao and also served the ophthalmology department of Hospicio, Margao. He retired 10 years ago
 
 Dr Amar Prabhudesai is a consultant interventional cardiologist and is known in the field of implantation of heart pacemakers
 
 Ayetin Mascarenhas is head of the famous cooperative society, VKKSS Curdi (Vividh Karyakari, Sahakari Seva Society Ltd) established in 1964, which looks after farmers’ needs like agriculture loans, fertilizer supply, purchase of seeds etc from almost all villages in   taluka
 
 Damodar Laxman Gavali is a scribe and award-winning theatre artiste connected with both the Konkani and the Marathi stage. He has been awarded several Kala Academy awards including the state Kala Samman Puraskhar for drama. He is also secretary of the Vishwanath Gude Memorial Trust which aids students to pursue academics
 
 Krishna Parwar is a theatre artist from Margwada who has acted in many nataks, including Rohideshwar and Raigad
 
 Heritage Trail
 
 Mainapi Waterfall
 
 The breathtaking locale situated at Tudav vaddo has continuous outpouring of water and is situated in the Netravali wildlife sanctuary. Lying 5km from the main entrance of the Netravali sanctuary, it is an exciting place for both nature lovers and trekkers.
 
 Budbudeanchi Tali
 
 Situated at Talivaddo, this one-thousand-year-old, sacred, miraculous bubbling pond, lies next to the Gopinath Temple and is used for bathing by widows during Shivratri (festival of lord Shiva). Incidentally, its water neither rises nor lowers and remains at the same level throughout the year.
 
 Gopinath Temple
 
 This centuries-old religious shrine is dedicated to Lord Krishna. Inside the sanctum sanctorum lies the linga representation of Lord Shiva. This place of worship is adjacent to the Budbudeanchi Tali.
 
 Sateri Devasthan
 
 The 800-year-old temple situated at Margwada is dedicated to Lord Shiva and on Shivratri, this sanctified place is popular for its 'zatra' (special procession of idols) and the two 'nataks' that are performed during this 'zatra'.
 
 Government High School
 
 The English-medium school at Dongri vaddo has undergone renovation and imparts education to around 300 students from Class 5 to Class 10. This school is among the landmarks in the village.
 
 Our Lady of Pilar Chapel
 
 The chapel is over 100-year-old. Situated at Gavaliwada, its premises was earlier used by a primary school for students living in Netorlim.
 
 Mahalaxmi Devasthan
 
 Situated adjacent to Sateri Devasthan is the 150-year-old temple. Devotees throng the revered place during Navratri (nine nights autumn festival) and Shivratri.
 
 
