CHENNAI: Clearly not amused with several public interest litigations being filed for a probe into the 
  , the Madras high court on Monday asked as to what extent the medical treatment details of a person should be put in public domain, merely because she occupied a public office.

 The hospital is also in a piquant situation as it concerned   details, the court said, wondering whether such illnesses as headache and other medical conditions of the public servant too must be put in public domain. 
 
 The bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Justice M Sundar was making the observations when a   of AIADMK cadre P A Joseph came up for further hearing. 
 
 The PIL was admitted by a vacation bench last month with an observation as to why not the court order exhumation of the body of Jayalalithaa. 
 
 Jayalalithaa was admitted to   on September 22. After 75 days of hospitalisation, she died on December 5. 
 
 Joseph had sought appointment of three former judges of the Supreme Court to call for medical treatment details from Apollo Hospitals and conduct a probe. 
 
 During arguments on Monday, senior counsel K M Vijayan said people were worried about the secrecy surrounding Jayalalithaa's death and that her leg was amputated during treatment prior to her death. Except medical bulletins by the hospital, the government had not released any details of Jayalalithaa's health condition, he said. 
 
 Questioning what was the source of this information, the bench said everything was over and that now there was no need to feel worried. 
 
 Senior advocate R Gandhi, who appeared on behalf another PIL petitioner, Ghanasekaran, said even the Governor was not allowed to visit Jayalalithaa when she was under treatment. 
 
 Senior advocate P S Raman, representing the hospital, however, told the bench that a complete discharge summary of Jayalalithaa was ready with the hospital and that it was ready to place it in court. He also denied there was any mystery in the death of Jayalalithaa. 
 
 The bench then raised three issues. First it sought to know whether the PIL petitioners, who included social activist K R ‘Traffic’ Ramaswamy and two AIADMK members, had any locus standi to raise the issue in court. Two, it sought to know whether there was any specific doubts regarding medical treatment given to Jayalalithaa. Three, it asked as to what amount of treatment details could be placed in public domain. The bench also observed that the absence of an immediate family member complicated the issue a bit.
 
 The bench then adjourned the case filed by Joseph to February 23 for further hearing and said the PIL of Gnanasekaran too would be listed to see if it raised any point not argued by the other PILs. 
 
 Meanwhile, a division bench of the high court in Madurai referred a PIL seeking a CBI probe into Jayalalithaa's death to the principal bench in Chennai saying similar PILs were being heard by the first bench. Last week, the Supreme Court declined to entertain a PIL of AIADMK MP Sasikala Pushpa saying she ought not to have approached the apex court directly.
 
 
