MUMBAI: Thirteen days after Hussaini Building at Pakmodia Street crashed, killing 33 and injuring 16, the JJ Marg police late on Wednesday night registered a case against unidentified office bearers of the Saifee Burhani Upliftment Trust (SBUT) for culpable homicide not amounting to murder. It entails imprisonment for up to 10 years.

 “We have registered a case against SBUT officials who are concerned with the Hussaini building. The probe under the fresh case has just begun. We have to establish everyone’s role in the case. Nobody has been arrested yet,” said Jaideep Gaikwad, inspector from JJ Marg police station.
 
 The 117-year-old ground-plus-six storey building at   crashed on August 31. Nearby buildings were evacuated soon after the incident. Police, which on September 1 registered an accidental death case, said it was engaged in collecting documents from various government agencies. 
 
 Police registered the case under sections 304 (II) (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the IPC. 
 
 The FIR does not mention MHADA as an accused. In May 2016, SBUT obtained an NOC from MHADA to demolish 64 buildings identified as dangerous. However, neither SBUT nor MHADA made any efforts to vacate these buildings. While MHADA claimed that the NOC for cluster redevelopment was issued in 2011 and thereafter SBUT was responsible for the repair, maintenance and demolition of the buildings, advocate S N Shroff said under the law the land-owner cannot use force to vacate residents. The landowner can only persuade the tenants to vacate. MHADA should not have stopped at issuing the NOC, it should have taken police help and ensured the tenants vacated the buildings,” he said.
 
 However,   leader in the BMC Rais Shaikh said that once SBUT was given the responsibility for redevelopment then the onus was upon them to get the building vacated. “The LOI (Letter of Intent) was issued to them and therefore they should have ensured residents were evicted especially considering most of the buildings were in a dilapidated condition. What happened was not acceptable and therefore stringent action should be taken in the case,” said Shaikh.
 
 The dead included three children—a 20-day-old boy, a three-year-old girl and a six-year-old boy. The preliminary reason for the crash is said to be the incessant rains which the city witnessed barely two days earlier, on August 29. Chief minister   announced Rs 5 lakh compensation for relatives of the dead and free medical treatment for the injured.
 
 The building was among those scheduled to be redeveloped under the cluster redevelopment scheme by the SBUT. The proposal had been submitted by SBUT to the high-power committee constituted by the Government of Maharashtra. In 2011, the building was given a warning notice as it was declared dilapidated. In fact the permission to demolish the building was also given to SBUT on May 27, 2016.
 
 
