JODHPUR: The horrific temple tragedy at Mehrangarh Fort, in which 216 young lives were lost, will complete nine years on Saturday , however, the report of   is still gathering dust with none of the governments willing to make the findings of the report public.

 Having lost all hope from the successive governments, the victims were left with no alternative but to file a petition in the high court, which was heard on July 22 this year and the division bench comprising Justice   and Justice Vineet Kumar Mathur had issued notices to the government seeking reply as to why the report was not made public.
 
 The reply is yet to be filed. It clearly shows that the governments are not willing to make this report public despite lapse of six years of its submission in order to avoid any backlash.
 
 Secretary of   said that in the six years since the report was submitted, we have run from pillar to post seeking to make the report public but all our pleas have fallen on deaf ears.Now, we are left with no alternative but to seek judicial in tervention.
 
 His counsel Vijay Mehta said that not making the report public has defeated the purpose of setting up the inquiry commission and has dealt injustice to the victims' families.
 
 “More so, the report will not only tell us who were responsible for this incident but also help us formulate measures required during such huge public congregations by throwing light on the shortcomings,“ said Mehta.
 
 216 youths had died in a stampedeon the first day of Navratra on Setpember 30, 2008, at the Mehrangarh Fort.They all had queued up to pay obeisance to goddess Chamunda.
 
 The then   government in   had constituted a commission in October 2008 headed by Justice Jasraj Chopra to probe the causes of the tragedy and fix the responsibility for this accident with directions to submit the report in three months.
 
 The commission got six extensions due to the hesitation of the victims' kin in appearing before the commission and submitting their representations. The report was finally submitted in May 2011 during the Congress rule and since then the report has been gathering dust with the successive governments.
 
