Having been together with   for 28 years, married for 19, Su san says her husband is a vital part of the Nashville community and is well known “but over the years so much had happened that it is hard to assimilate it all.“

 Talking to TOI, Susan said she had always felt safe within their city until after 911. “That is when people's attitudes started to change and I witnessed   being harassed by white and other ethnic races“ she said, adding that “They would point and call him Osama Bin Laden“.
 
 Talking about reputation of her husband she said Devinder was in the soccer hall of fame of Tennessee and the   (USL). “ He has a thriving environmental engineering business in Nashville and beyond. He was the first Sikh Indian undergraduate student at Vanderbilt University and also in his high school that was in a small college town, Lexington, Kentucky“ she said.
 
 She pointed out that with the election of president  , race relations and hostility surfaced but people tried to keep themselves in check .“But you really realized how we were divided as a how we were divided as a country.   was one of President Obama's biggest ad versaries and was constantly calling him out in the press for his birth certifi cate and his policies, she said “When Trump threw his hat into the presidential ring over 16 months ago, he began his political rhetoric about making America great again, code saying for making America white again. Since he began his political quest for president and became the president it has unleashed the ugliest part of our country “ she said.
 
 “Trump had incited the lowest part of his base to be violent against each other by instilling fear about ethnicity , religion and mistrust about all races unless you were white. I try not to let worry dictate my daily life about my concerns for Devinder's safety and I tell him to watch his back, we are a divided nation, there are so many angry people, white, black, Muslim, etc.about what this president is doing and then his tweets this past weekend about former president Obama wiretapping his phone are insane. Yes there is fear out there. I for one am so afraid of the white man“ she said.
 
 Susan said that more terror attacks had been enacted in US by white males that it was mind-boggling. “We are living in a world that is moving so fast that it seems Karma is being handed out more swiftly then ever before,“ she observed.
 
 Stating that she was sad for her country that she loved so dearly, Susan said that all people that didn't believe in this hate rhetoric and were up in arms over the harm done to anyone.
 
 She said “Sikhs seem to be targeted more because of the wearing of turbans and beards but there is plenty of hate being dished out on Jews, Mexicans, blacks, Muslims, etc. Hate crimes are on the rise across the board. There are many good people here but we have a very flawed system because we have congress, senate and president that are all Republican majority . We are praying for a Republican senator to break from the pack and be our hero and do the right thing“.
 
