MUMBAI: In the fastest follow-on public market fund-raising, India’s largest business services provider   plans to mop up Rs 900 crore, or $140 million, through an   ( ) in the next 10 days, people directly aware of the matter said.

 Quess, controlled by Prem Watsa’s   through  , had raised Rs 400 crore through an   ( ) exactly a year ago, which was among the top five most oversubscribed public issuances in the past two decades. The share price has risen threefold since the debut last July, giving the Bengaluru-headquartered company about Rs 12,000-crore market value. Quess shares ended Monday’s trade at Rs 951 as against the issue price of Rs 317 one year ago. The public issue was oversubscribed 144% last July. It is likely to eclipse the 14 months taken by   last year, which is the fastest follow-on capital-raising on the domestic bourses currently. 
 
 IPP is similar to raising funds through qualified institutional placement, though the market regulator has made the pricing requirements less onerous compared to the latter. 
 
 Serial entrepreneur Ajit Issac-spearheaded Quess is raising fresh capital — more than double the size of its IPO — to boost inorganic growth. The company has finished investor roadshows and is awaiting shareholder nod at the annual general meeting (AGM) on Friday to go ahead with the fund-raising. When contacted, Quess declined to comment on market speculation. The company provides technology solutions, integrated facilities management, industrial maintenance and staffing services. Quess reported an annual revenue of Rs 4,150 crore last fiscal with an operating profit of Rs 220 crore, which rose sharply from Rs 155 crore in the previous fiscal. Quess and its founder Issac have a track record of 16 acquisitions in the past seven years, six of which came in the past one year itself. 
 
 “They have a formidable M&A record and are likely to continue with inorganic strategy to add new geographies and service lines,” said an investor, who was part of the roadshows and speaking on condition of anonymity. Besides taking advantage of the soaring market value to strengthen the balance-sheet, the latest fund-raising will also help Quess promoters to move towards the Sebi-mandated minimum 25% float. The promoters hold about 89% in the company at present.
 
 
