THRISSUR: The work on the construction of the twin tunnel at Kuthiran which was suspended last Friday following protests by a section of local residents was resumed on Tuesday. The work on this twin-tube tunnel was resumed after the high court gave the required sanction on Monday. 

 A police team was deployed in the area to avert any untoward incident during the resumption of the tunnel work, as per the high court order.
 
 The nearly 1 km long tunnel on the national highway stretch between Mannuthy and Wadakkumchery will be a vital road infrastructure for Kerala as it would contribute significantly to ease the traffic between Kerala and rest of the country, through  .
 
 A section of the residents had tried to block the construction alleging that rock pieces had fallen on a house during the blasting operations.
 
 However, the officials of the Pragati Engineering and Rail Projects Limited, who are contractors for the construction of the tunnel, denied this. “We are conducting the blasting operations strictly in accordance with the law. There is a panel which is monitoring the blasting operations. The blasting inside the tunnel is carried out between 6am and 9pm, while in the outer areas it is restricted from 6am to 6 pm. We would have been ready to make corrections, but some people had launched agitations without any provocation, and sometimes even resorted to violence,’’ said Krishnam Raju, MD of   and Rail Projects Limited.
 
  Each of the two tunnels will have a length of 965 meters, width of 14 meters and height of ten meters, according to the   (NHAI). Drilling of one of twin tunnels is already completed, but the present operation is to enhance its height, from 7.5 meters to 10 meters.
 
 According to Krishnam Raju this operation will be completed in a weeks’ time. Drilling of the second tunnel is almost completed and this would be ready for use in another month, he said.
 
  Meanwhile, the district administration officials are awaiting high court directive on the disbursement of the compensation to the people who have suffered damage to their properties due to the tunnel blasting operations. The company had deposited Rs 3 crore for distributing the compensation, and the committee appointed to scrutinise the requests for compensation has cleared 253 applications. Another 100 people had applied for compensation later and their applications are being processed,   said.
 
