MUMBAI: The investigation into smuggling of antiques and artefacts involving American businessman Vijay Nanda will extend to two established international auction houses considering that several of these have been sold without carrying out due diligence, Directorate of Revenue Intelligence ( ) officials said. 

 These auction houses should have asked for provenance documents, a record of ownership of a work of art or an antique establishing its authenticity before putting up these for auction, an official said. “The stolen antiques will have to be recovered from the buyers and returned to India. We are in process of ascertaining how many artefacts have been sold,” an official said. 
 
 In a similar exercise last June, over 200 artefacts smuggled to the US by art smuggler Subhash Kapoor were returned to India. DRI arrested Nanda, an American of Indian origin, on Tuesday and a court has remanded him in judicial custody till February 20. 
 
 Officials have managed to retrieve pictures from Nanda’s mobile phone that could implicate him. “One set of pictures show him standing next to the sculpture in a temple. The same sculpture is then photographed in Nanda’s Byculla godown,” an official said. Among the various antiques recovered during the search were terracotta figurines from 1st century AD and bronze figurines of ‘Mahishasura Mardhini’ and ‘Ganesha’, which date to the 17th and 18th century. Sculptures or statues of ‘Varada Ganesha’, ‘Padmapani’, ‘Awalokateshwara’, ‘Standing Vishnu’ and figurines of ‘Naga and Nagini’ were recovered from the godown. 
 
 Officials from the Archaeological Survey of India examined the documents showed by Nanda and said they were fake. “They have ascertained the value of smaller items. The entire process will take some time,” said and DRI official.
 
 Officials have also found series of text messages exchanged between Nanda and members of the Chennai-based ‘Deendayalan syndicate’ that stole sculptures from temples in southern and eastern India with the help of thieves. Deendayalan and Kapoor are awaiting trial. 
 
 
