Curling up on a sofa and staying indoors all day during summers is passé. Malayali youngsters today are constantly on the lookout for something new and exciting to do, and the best part is that there are ample venues offered to them! Check out some of the novel and unconventional activities the youth are tripping on this summer.

 
 
 
  Ever since research scholar Aswani Dravid watched the animated movie Finding Nemo, she started harbouring a wish to take a deep sea dive. This summer, she added it to her bucket list and finally managed to fulfil her wish, at Kovalam beach.
 
  “It was like entering a new world. I don’t have words to explain the excitement when I saw multi-coloured fish swimming all around me. I felt like a mermaid in a fairy tale. The experience made my summer really special,”she says.
 
  While some prefer diving for adventure, others find it as a means to relax and beat the summer heat. Techie Justin George says, “I was lucky enough to spot some rare species like puffer fish, groupers, box fish and others. I found it relaxing to watch the fish glide by.”
 
  Suraj Khan, the organiser of this adventure dive at Kovalam, says that a major chunk of those who come to try out diving are youngsters. “We get more domestic tourists than foreigners for these three-hour sessions during the summer. Most of them are techies who come in groups. It’s like a monthly recreation for them.”
 
  And women are at the forefront to explore life under water! “There is no room for fear for these all -women groups, who are even more enthusiastic than the men to take a dive,” says Suraj.
 
 
 
 
  To beat the heat at the ground level, some have chosen to have fun up in the sky! And what could be better than paragliding off the scenic hills at Vagamon, Idukki? The summer is the ideal time to experience the most beautiful landscapes in God’s Own Country from a bird’s eye view, says Sajna Ali, a techie from Trivandrum. “It was thrilling to fly like a bird. The sport is offered only during the summer time as that’s when the winds are ideal for paragliding.”
  
 Sajna and around 30 women went for it as part of a travel group recently, Appoppanthadi, to escape the summer heat. “We are an all-women group and wanted to try out some extraordinary stunts. It was really fun to watch the birds fly underneath us. The 30 enthusiasts, who are in their 20s and 30s , said that more than being an adventurous act, “flying in the sky in parachutes soothed their mind and body.”
 
 
 
 
 While a road trip can be fun when you do it with friends, there is nothing that can give as much of an adrenaline rush as off road car and jeep races, say these four-wheeler lovers. Jocy John, a businessman and a travel freak, has been organising such races in places such as Vagamon and Wayanad. “Getting someone to perform daredevil acts helps them get rid of stress and also provide full on entertainment,” says Jocy.
 
 Every race he organises sees a participation of around 30 to 50 SUV or jeep riders, apart from a large number of spectators. “Each car will have a driver and co-driver, who will solve the tasks, move past hurdles and get going. The event is a mesh of adventure, travel and gaming. However we make sure that we meet the safety standards for the participants.”
 
  Though Shaheen Siraj has been following off-road races since his teens, he had never thought he would actually go for one. Recently he went along with his friends and has now made it a routine. “I have become an addict of off-road races now. Vrooming and racing ahead, trying to perform the tasks intermittently and making it to the final point gives a huge adrenaline rush.”
 
 
 
 
 For IT professional John Mathew and friends from Trivandrum, bicycle rides are what give them a high. “Cycling off-road gives you stamina, endurance, core strength and also self reliance, thereby infusing positive energy. Every weekend, we plan cycling trips with our friends in the early hours of the day. Sometimes we even compete with each other. It’s also a means to spend time with friends,” he says.
 
 The outskirts of Ponmudi are the favourite destination for Dr Subash Chandran and friends. He says that cycling along the hilly terrain helps them to get a spectacular view of the beautiful scenery. “More than being a sport, it helps one realise one’s strength and instils confidence to cross the limitations of the body and mind.”
 
