BENGALURU:   is well aware about who will break his all-time goalscoring record in the  . One of English football's greatest players, Shearer struck 260 goals during his stint with   and  , a club that immortalized him as a legend.

 Though   is the closest - trailing by 60 - Shearer believes it will be in-form   hotshot   (84 goals) who will surpass his record achievement. "Harry Kane reminds me most of myself. I can now see a player who can top the total of 260 goals I amassed with Blackburn and Newcastle," the former England skipper told 
 in an email interview.
 
 Ahead of his visit to Bengaluru for the Premier League Live fan park event later this month, the 47-year-old TV pundit spoke about his brief managerial stint for his boyhood club, witnessing Dennis Bergkamp's 2002 wonder goal live and how former stars Andy Cole, Paul Gascoigne and Matt Le Tissier would have gone for big money in today's transfer market.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Massively excited. It promises to be a great event, there are some big games on that weekend - including Liverpool against Manchester United - and I'm sure everyone will have a brilliant time. I came out to the Premier League event in Mumbai earlier this year, which was a great experience. The fans have a huge passion for the game in India.
 
 
 
 I learned that it is a very tough job, but I also really enjoyed it despite what happened at the end (relegated to the Championship). I loved the everyday questions that were posed, the adrenaline rush, and obviously the games.
 
 
 
 The longer you are out of it, the more difficult it is to get back in. I love what I am doing now (football pundit) - it's a very privileged job to be in. However, you still have to do hours of research to know what you are talking about, because whatever you say is out there forever.
 
 
 
 At the time I was annoyed because we had just conceded a goal! But having seen it again, and again, you have to appreciate the skill involved - it was a great finish.
 
 
 
 Both Manchester clubs have started the season well. Their new signings have settled in well and they have strength in depth. However, the likes of Chelsea, Liverpool, Spurs and Arsenal are all still in the hunt. That's one of the great things about the Premier League - it's so hard to predict.
 
 
 
 I think that the owners of PSG wanted to make a statement, which they clearly have done. We'll have to wait and see what the consequences of the deals are - there's no doubting they are quality players.
 
 
 
 The economics of football are straightforward. Clubs have assets, particularly broadcasting rights, and that generates income, that income is then invested. Clubs have always spent what they can on players. Rules are in place that ensure the clubs are sustainable, time will tell if the market has reached its peak but clubs are earning more money and therefore spending it, and that shows no sign of abating.
 
 
 
 The market has changed from when I was playing - but it's all relative to what clubs can afford. In their prime, the likes of Andy Cole, Paul Gascoigne, Matt Le Tissier,   and   would all be worth huge money in today's market.
 
 
 
 There are so many great managers in the Premier League - the likes of Pep Guardiola, Antonio Conte and Jose Mourinho have all enjoyed huge success over the previous decade. But if I had to pick one, I'd say Jose.
 
 
 
 The best defender I've played against was Arsenal's Tony Adams. His job was to defend and he did it extremely well.
 
