AHMEDABAD: Conveners of   (PAAS),   and   stir doyen, Jignesh Mevani, have threatened to disrupt   (VGGS) 2017, if fixed-pay and contractual employees were not made permanent by the state government by January 7. The   were speaking at a meeting of contractual and fixed-pay employees called by Pravin Ram, convener of   (GJAM). 

 Police detained more than 250 protesters trying to convene at the 'Jan Akrosh Rally', which was originally planned at Pathikashram Chhavani in Gandhinagar. However, employees led by Ram later started their programme at a parking area of Akhsardham temple, from where they were detained. 
 
 Pressing for demands of fixed-pay employees, Ram said, "The fixed-pay system should be abolished from a developed state like Gujarat." "Women working as ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activist) and anganwadi workers should be given full wages according to norms and unemployed youths should be given jobs immediately," Ram said.
 
 He also gave a memorandum of their demands to the additional collector of Gandhinagar.
 
 "We gave the list of our demands to the government representative. If the government does not consider our demands by January 7, then we will not allow VGGS to take place," Ram said.
 
 Thakor, Mevani and PAAS leaders, including Hardik's close aides, Dinesh Bambhania, Varun Patel and Lalit Vasoya, all endorsed his call. 
 
 At the meeting, Thakor said that government should focus on the issue of unemployment, and demands of fixed-pay and contractual employees should be accepted otherwise, the much-hyped VGGS will be disrupted.
 
 Extending support to Ram's movement, Mevani said, "If the Rs 60 lakh crore MoUs are really realized and the black money surfaced after demonetization, then the fixed pay and contractual employees should be given Rs 45,000 instead of current pay scale of Rs 4,500."
 
 PAAS leader Varun Patel said, "PAAS supports this movement and we will keep supporting the fixed-pay employees all their public meetings and protests."
 
 A senior police official told TOI that over 250 protesters were detained from the meeting venue because the organizers did not have permission to hold the meeting. All of them were taken to SP office for a while and released later, said the official.
 
 
