BENGALURU: India's elemental   seems to be in a `critical condition' with a meagre 19%   in the   (CHCs) across the country. According to the statistics released by the Union health ministry on Friday, which ring the alarm bells loud, there is a shortfall of 17,854 medical specialists including surgeons, physicians, pediatricians, obstetricians and gynecologists.

 CHCs, which are located in towns and serve as referral centres for patients coming from the primary health centres (PHCs), are vital to improving the country's healthcare landscape. The total number of specialist doctors working at CHCs across the country is 4,186 against the present requirement is of 22,040.
 
 The only place that has reported a surplus of specialist doctors is Chandigarh (UT) with 14 doctors in the CHCs against the requirement of 8. Among the states that face a shortfall of spe cialists, Uttar Pradesh (shortfall of 2,608 doctors) tops the list followed by Rajasthan (1,787), Tamil Nadu (1,464), West Bengal (1,271), Odisha (1,154), Gujarat (1,140), Madhya Pradesh (1,047) and Maharashtra (935).
 
 The shortfall of specialists in CHCs reiterates the clichéd argument that private hospitals continue to be more lucrative for doctors.The shortage will impact the healthcare scene negatively in the semi-urban set-up as the country's doctor-population ratio (currently 1:1,668 as per the population estimate of 1.32 billion) will increase if no corrective measures are taken. The predicament is the same in other states as well, as specialist doctors seek postings in metropolitan cities while categorically rejecting postings in smaller towns or rural areas.
 
 
 
 
 While India may be one of the most preferred destinations for medical tourism, the other side of the story is the lack of specialised healthcare in rural India. This means more poor people are forced to opt for costlier private healthcare in India.Doctors absent from duty is the major reason for people not finding government hospitals reliable.Mandatory rural postings have always been met with stiff resistance.
 
