JAIPUR/JODHPUR:   of all medical colleges called off their strike on Saturday evening after police arrested three accused attendants under Rajasthan Medical Protection Act, who allegedly assaulted three resident doctors in Jodhpur’s government hospital attached to Mahatma Gandhi Medical College.

 The resident doctors had given complaint against four persons for beating three resident doctors on duty at the MG Hospital on January 24 after an elderly female patient   passed away. The accused included a government doctor  , and three sons of the woman who died, including a DSP (Barmer police) Mukesh Chawda, Rajnesh Chawda and Amit Chawda demanding immediate arrest of them. 
 
 Sardarpura’s station house officer   said Amit had been arrested on the same day of the complaint while Mukesh was arrested on Friday night and his brother Rajneesh was arrested on Saturday morning. All the three have been sent to judicial custody.
 
 Taking action followed by their complaint, the medical and health department suspended doctor Ratnani while the three brothers including the DSP were arrested by the police.
 
 Jodhpur Resident Doctors ‘Association’s president Sukhdev Choudhary said that they were satisfied with the action taken by the police. “We had given complaint against four persons and since the action against all of them has been taken with the suspension of one doctor and arrest of three others including the DSP, we have decided to call of our strike”, said Choudhary.
 
 Concerned with the incident happened in Jodhpur’s medical college, health minister Kalicharan Saraf directed the officials to improve surveillance in the hospital by installing more CCTV cameras. Also, he directed all medical colleges’ administration to deploy more guards to maintain peace in the hospitals.
 
 Earlier, Saraf talked with the agitating resident doctors and asked them to call off the strike for the benefit of the patients.
 
 The doctors were allegedly assaulted on January 20. Since, then Jodhpur’s resident doctors had been protesting. But, resident doctors of Sawai Man Singh medical college in Jaipur joined their strike on Friday. Within a day, the doctors called off their strike as their demands fulfilled.
 
 “We were demanding that the four accused who assaulted the three resident doctors should be arrested under Rajasthan Medical Protection Act. Today police arrested them under the same Act. After the arrested, we have called off our strike,”   of Resident Doctors (JARD) general secretary Dr Manish Loyal said.
 
 The doctors resumed duties in the evening. Among those who are arrested is a deputy superintendent of police and a government doctor. They were accused of beating resident doctors,” JARD office-bearers said.
 
 However, in the day, in the absence of resident doctors, the patients faced difficulties. There were no resident doctors in indoor wards. However, the hospital administration made alternate arrangements by deploying senior resident doctors and medical officers to take care of the patients. In the outpatient department too, long queues of patients were seen as there were medical faculty and medical officers were providing the treatment.
 
 
