NEW DELHI/LUCKNOW: Police issued non-bailable warrants against rape-accused Uttar Pradesh minister   and six other persons on Saturday, in connection with the charges of rape against him.

 Prajapati's passport has been revoked for four weeks to prevent the absconding minister from attempting to flee the country. 
 
 On Friday, police initiated proceedings for a look out notice against Prajapati following reports that he 
  . 
 
 Immigration authorities across all international ports were put on alert and the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), guarding Uttar Pradesh's border with Nepal, has also been alerted about the possibility of such a move by Prajapati.
 
 Meanwhile, in a related development, the victim’s relatives filed a complaint with the Delhi Police alleging that a UP police officer, who had come to AIIMS to record the victim's statement, 
  . The complaint was filed at the Hauz Khas police station, alleging that a DSP-rank woman officer of the UP Police on Thursday barged into a ward at AIIMS, where the victim's 16-year-old daughter is admitted, threatened them and snatched their mobile phones.
 
 The victim’s daughter, who was also allegedly sexually assaulted by the minister, is undergoing treatment in a restricted ward of AIIMS. “The officer pushed the girl who is undergoing treatment and pestered the mother to record the statement. When we objected to it, the officer threatened to get us killed in a fake encounter,” alleged the complainant, who claimed to be a cousin of the victim.
 
 However, Chinmoy Biswal, additional DCP (south), said the allegations levelled in the complaint have prima facie found not substantiated as of now. Delhi police has also beefed up its vigil at railway stations and airports to look for Prajapati.
 
 “We have initiated the proceedings for look out notice against Prajapati,” said Senior Superintendent of police (SSP), Lucknow, Manzil Saini. About the complaint against the Investigating Officer (IO) filed by the victim’s relatives with the Delhi Police,   said such actions from the complainant’s side were unfounded and will be brought to the notice of the Supreme Court – which has sought a report from the UP Police in the entire case - as it amounted to non-cooperation from the side of the complainant.
 
 The Lucknow police are also set to issue a non-bailable warrant (NBW) against Prajapati from the designated court. Apart from the minister, police have also identified all the other accused in the case. One of the accused Ashok is posted as Lekhpal in his assembly constituency Amethi. Chandrapal, a head constable at security headquarters in Lucknow, was posted as minister's gunner. Rupesh, an employee at secretariate, is posted as personal secretary to the minister. Vikas is the son of a additional city magistrate in Lucknow. Amrendra is minister's representive in the constituency and Ashish is a contractor," she said and added "We have written to authorities for suspension of those in government service."
 
 Homes of Rupesh, Ashok, Vikas and Amrendra who reside in Lucknow were raided by police on Thursday night, while teams have been sent to Ashish's house in Kanpur and Chandrapal's in Jaulan.
 
