GURUGRAM: Parents trooped to Ryan International School’s   branch on Wednesday to check for themselves   arrangements on the campus, a day after the district administration spelt out detailed safety guidelines to be implemented in every city school.

 And a small group of parents, mostly women, who managed to sneak into the premises following some initial resistance from the school authorities, came out largely disappointed after seeing the “dismal” and “inadequate” safety arrangements.
 
 The parents said there weren’t enough CCTV cameras or female attendants, which have been ordered, along with other dos and don’ts, by the administration.
 
 Anil Kumar, whose two children study in Class IV and Class VII there, said they wanted to check if the school had taken adequate preventive measures, especially after the murder of Class II student   Thakur on Ryan’s Bhondsi campus on September 8. “The parents were not allowed to enter the campus initially, but when we protested, the school authorities let only female guardians in. My wife went inside. When she came out, she was upset. There are only 16 cameras in the school. It also falls short on various safety parameters,” Anil added.
 
 The angry parents then staged a protest and demanded a meeting with the principal. It was only after acting district education officer Ram Kumar Phalaswal visited the school that the principal came out to meet the parents. 
 
 “She wasn’t even interested. So much happened over the last one week yet they are so laid back. She came out only for 10 minutes, noted down our complaints and promised to address them,” said Subash, another parent. 
 
 Later, Phalaswal said that he had directed principals of all the schools to hold routine meetings with parents. 
 
 “The school does not have a parent-teacher association yet. I have asked them to form it soon. It is applicable for other schools as well. If the divisional commissioner is ready to meet parents, why won’t principals? They will have to. I have told them that they would be charge-sheeted in case they refuse meeting parents in future,” he added.
 
 The principal was unavailable for comment. 
 
 
