NAGPUR:   and the outskirts of east and north Nagpur are lagging behind West and South Nagpur in terms of development activities. The   did not pay attention to development of East and North Nagpur, claimed residents.

 “The NMC intends to make Nagpur a world class city and a Smart City. But, behind this talk, the often ignored aspect is the pathetic plight of the old city and east and north Nagpur. They have always been ignored and their future is also murky. The glaring inequalities make it seem as if Nagpur is not one, but two cities,” said Rakhim Bhattacharya, a resident of Yashodhara Nagar.
 
 Citing an example, he pointed out that NMC selected the already developed patch from Japanese Garden Square to   for the Smart Street project. “Why only WHC Road? Why didn’t the NMC select a stretch in North or East Nagpur,” a miffed Bhattacharya said.
 
 Ramesh Satpute, a resident of Pardi, said though his ward was regularized a decade ago, there are areas with no motorable roads, drinking water connections and sewer lines. “Some interior areas of east Nagpur which are densely populated badly need a makeover in terms of sanitation,” said Satpute.
 
 The middle-class families here have to deal with lack of amenities and are irked with their public representatives. Sanitation, roads, electricity and water supply are some of the major issues in the outer wards.
 
 The ruling party never bothered to bridge this widening gap between the East, North and old city and West and South Nagpur as they do not have any political interests here. “This is violation of our basic democratic rights,” said Kishore Sharma, a resident of Shanti Nagar.
 
 “Civic amenities like drinking water, drainage, electricity and transport are not up to the mark due to administrative neglect and lack of political will. There are just too many instances of discrimination,” said Prakash Tidke, a resident of Kalamna. 
 
 He said the slow pace of development in the fringe areas is causing concern among the elected public representatives as they are often grilled by public.
 
 Municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar defended the NMC and claimed that developmental works are being equally carried out in east, central and north Nagpur. He also cited examples of   coming up in Wathoda, Suresh Bhatt auditorium in central Nagpur and second phase of smart city project in Nara-Nari, Wanjra-Wanjri in North Nagpur. To a query why west Nagpur is only being selected always for any pilot projects, he clarified that residents of west and south Nagpur easily extend support for any project, whereas citizens of central, east and north Nagpur protested the NMC to launch even 24x7 water supply project. 
 
  corporator from Jagnath Budhwari, Dr Uma Gathibandhe, too admitted that the NMC was least bothered about development of ‘other areas’. However, she was very quick to add that old city areas were congested and this might be hindering development in this part of the city. 
 
 Corporator from Zingabai Takli, Arun Daware, said that Rs 15 lakh allotted to a corporator was sufficient for representatives from west Nagpur as all the areas are developed, but those who represent the outer wards require more funds.
 
 Demanding special attention for fringe areas, Daware said that the citizens are not fortunate enough to witness development commensurate to the taxes they pay, which have become 10 times higher now.
 
 Congress corporator Suresh Jagyasi too admitted that civic body’s attention towards outskirts, particularly north Nagpur, is lacking. He said that lack of development in this part of the city can be gauged by the fact that even Nara crematorium has been overlooked, on the other hand every year the NMC spends hefty funds for the maintenance of crematoriums in central and west Nagpur.
 
 “Even projects like   in North Nagpur sanctioned by former minister Nitin Raut, was shifted to South-West constituency,” he alleged. Citing another example of step motherly treatment, he said why the NMC didn’t start the LED streetlights project from North Nagpur. Even the civic body’s health department has been neglected, he said, adding that even garbage is not lifted every day.
 
 
