She always had weird notions about arranged marriages. She was well educated, modern and feminist to the core. She often equated arranged marriage with a defunct system in which the fairer sex or rather weaker sex, as often termed by society does not have much say.
 
  Radha (somewhat an old name for such a modern girl), was nearing 29 and yet un-married. As usual, more than parents it was her distant relatives who were more concerned about her marriage, and often said things which indicated that her whole life is meaningless and a big burden if she does not get married soon.
  
  Radha also wanted to settle down, but she had her own notion of 'Mr. Right' which was slightly, if not drastically, different from her parents or relatives. She wanted a dreamer like her, someone who had childlike innocence yet maturity when needed, someone who was passionate about little things in life as she was , be it gazing through a moonlit night or listening to the sounds of rain and experiencing the bliss that comes with it.
  
  But, life is no fairy tale and Radha was soon married off to Viren and this time, she could not oppose the match as she could no longer take the jibes of her relatives or the pain of her parents.
  
  Radha did not get the opportunity to know Viren beforehand or go through a courtship period with him before marriage. The best policy she thought, was to take the plunge and go with the flow, putting all her feminist ideas on the back-burner.
  
  Viren was a perfectionist, someone who was very good at his work but when it came to expressing his feelings, he often felt a loss of words. Radha expected him to express himself or at least communicate the basic things like what he expected of her or what he expected from this relationship. She thought communication is the key to a relationship and specially, when it is laid on the grounds of an arranged marriage, where they hardly knew anything about each other. The lack of expression brought some discontent into this newly formed relationship and Radha started wondering about its longevity.
  
  Soon Radha fell ill and doctors advised her a surgery. She was a woman, who had never taken a single injection in a her life and the thought of a surgery had definitely shaken her up. She looked at Viren and he comforted her by saying she is strong enough to come out of this. For the first time, she felt as if the conversation had taken some worry off her chest, as if someone had finally arrived to hold her hand and walk along her side through this ordeal.
  
  She realized the fact that his presence itself soothed her and those caring glances communicated much. The D-day came and although her whole family was there, it was Viren who was managing everything and acting like a pillar of support to everyone. For the first time, she felt proud to have him in her life. He counseled her and provided her with the much needed confidence to go through the surgery.
  
  The surgery was successful and Viren took care of her single handedly afterwards. She realized that her Mills & Boons idea of romance and love was not the idea that existed in this world. Here romance means being there through thick and thin, in sickness and health, in joys and sorrows. You necessarily don’t have to gift flowers or diamonds always, but you have to gift your time, concern and care.
  
  This one incident did what even 100 gifts couldn't have done. Radha has better understanding of Viren now. She knows that in his silence lies immense love for her. Funnily, she advises   to her younger siblings now and suddenly she has become an agony aunt to all those who dread arranged marriages.
  
  
  
