PATNA: Chief minister (CM)   on Saturday emphasised on  , saying it would lead to enrichment of   in the state.
 
  Highlighting various initiatives taken for skill development of youths under the purview of seven resolves of the state government, Nitish said, “The youths in Bihar are talented and hardworking. We are committed to imparting proper training and skills to them in order to create  .”
  
  The CM, while addressing a programme organised by state labour resources department at Samrat Ashok International Convention Centre on the occasion of ‘World Youth Skill Day’, said, “If Biharis staying in Delhi decide just for one day to skip work, life in the national capital will come to a standstill.”
  
  Deliberating on the initiatives being undertaken under seven resolves programme, Nitish said, “We have included skill development in seven resolves as it is in the foreground of the agenda of the state government, Accordingly, two out of seven resolves are dedicated to skill development of youths.”
  
  Enumerating the three schemes under ‘Arthik Hal Yuvaon Ka Bal’, Nitish said, “We are providing loan of Rs 4 lakh to youths pursuing higher education under student credit card scheme. Similarly, Rs 1,000 is being given for nine months to students seeking jobs for a period of two years in the age group of 21 to 25 years. Besides, Wi- Fi facilities are being provided at universities and college campuses and venture capital fund has been created for budding entrepreneurs.”
  
  The CM added that the state government is also imparting training to youths in three types of skills – language (English and Hindi), computer literacy and behavioural skills. “It was being observed that our youths faced difficulties in finding jobs owing to lack of communication and behavioural skills. But our initiatives under Kaushal Yuva programme is serving this purpose,” Nitish said.
  
  He added around 42,000 of 1.13 lakh students have been imparted training in various skill development programmes across the state since its launch on December 15, 2016.
  
  Nitish also spoke about the commitment of his government to build educational institutions in the recent past, including IIT, Patna centre of BIT Mesra, Chanakya National Law University, Chandragupt Institute of Management, NIFT and  .
  
  “The state government is also committed to setting up an engineering college, ITI, women’s ITI and GNM Institute in every district,” the CM said.
