NEW DELHI: Taking exception to Pakistan’s statements on the acquittal of   in the   blasts case, India has said it rejected Islamabad’s effort to meddle in India’s internal affairs and did not need any self-serving sermons from the neighbour.

 Pakistan’s attempts to link the verdict in the Ajmer case to the Samjhauta train blasts case was completely untenable. “We also totally reject the completely untenable link sought to be established by Pakistan with any other matter currently under purview of the Indian courts,” the ministry of external affairs said on Thursday.
 
 MEA spokesperson   said, “Pakistan is well advised to refrain from interfering in internal affairs of India in any form; not to resort to denial from the reality of terrorism emanating from its soil; and take action to dismantle the infrastructure of terrorism in the territory under its control and bring to justice the masterminds in its territory who commit, promote and support terrorism against its neighbours.”
 
 Baglay’s remarks are in keeping with India’s sharply worded responses to Pakistan over issues such as breach of ceasefire along the LoC and International Border and on events in Jammu and Kashmir.
 
 Responding to reports that Pakistan would make Gilgit-Baltistan its fifth province, he said, “Any unilateral step by Pakistan to alter the status of that part will have no basis in law and will be completely unacceptable.”
 
 Meanwhile, The special NIA court judging the   blast case of 2007 adjourned the pronouncement of the quantum of punishment for March 18.
 
 
 
 
 Home Minister   said on Thursday that countries which sponsor terror and violate the definition of terrorism as prescribed by the   should be punished by the international community. 
 
 The minister said coastal borders of 36 countries touch the Indian Ocean and nations, including India, need to work together to ensure safety and protection of maritime domains.
 
 
 
 
 Amid media reports of a possible attack on the Taj Mahal by a pro-IS group, security agencies said they had not received any specific input on the matter but were maintaining a high alert. 
 
 DIG (Agra range) Mahesh Kumar Mishra said, that they have not received any such information but are fully equipped to deal with any emergency situation.
 
