MUMBAI/PANAJI: The king of good times may have left the building but a Viking is all set to reign from   Villa at Candolim which the State Bank of India has finally managed to sell for an undisclosed sum.

 Liquor baron   Mallya’s famous Kingfisher Villa has finally been sold, interestingly to another millionaire with interest in beer. After failing to find bidders at consecutive auctions, lenders have agreed to a negotiated sale to actor-turned-businessman Sachiin Joshi.
 
 Joshi is understood to have paid marginally higher than the last reserve price of Rs 73 crore for the sprawling villa located along Candolim’s beach front. According to practice, banks are allowed to search for buyers if they do not get any response after failing to auction a property. When TOI contacted SBI chairman Arundhati Bhattacharya, she confirmed that a negotiated sale had been arrived at but did not divulge the name of the buyer.
 
 The 32-year-old actor has diverse interests but this will not be his first foray into Goa. Joshi holds the exclusive rights for Planet Hollywood brand in southeast Asia and has invested nearly Rs 250 crore in a 115-room resort at Utorda.
 
 Joshi-led Viiking Ventures acquired the Kings beer brand for Rs 90 crore from Impala Distillery and Brewery and has rebranded it to Goa Kings for export.
 
 As the vice-chairman of the JMJ Group of companies, the holding company, Joshi’s business interests range from fitness centres to sports. Joshi, who owns Viking Media and Entertainment, has starred in Hindi movies including Aazaan, Mumbai Mirror and Jackpot.
 
 Mallya’s sea-facing palatial villa, situated in Candolim, had earlier attracted interest from at least half a dozen players in the hospitality industry and a media group when it was opened for inspection to interested bidders during the end of September and early October. However, the reserve price of Rs 85 crore did not enthuse the buyers.
 
 Subsequently, lenders made another attempt to sell the villa in December when they brought down the price to Rs 81 crore, again without success. The last auction took place in March 2017, with a lower reserve price of Rs 73 crore.
 
 The 17-lender consortium led by SBI took physical possession of the property in May 2016 after a long legal battle with United Spirits over tenancy rights. Lenders managed to attach the villa two months after   held a party in the same venue to ring in his 60th birthday . The party was attended by Spanish pop singer Enrique Iglesias and Sonu Nigam.
 
 The villa was owned by United Breweries Holdings and mortgaged by Kingfisher Airlines to the consortium of banks to obtain loans in 2010. The villa is among many movable and immovable properties under lenders’ possession, which they are trying to auction to recover Rs 9,000 crore from Mallya.
 
