NAGPUR: Despite the government’s move to reserve 50% seats for  , most female members have failed to make their mark in politics as well as public life. The reason: most of them were  .

 Such women are “rubber stamps” and their male relatives are least interested in promoting them. The males do the backseat driving.
 
 However, some women corporators have made their own mark in  . In some cases, they were initially propped up by their male relatives but later they took off on their own. There are others who worked their way up without any male prop.
 
 The eminent women corporators that TOI talked to blamed their female counterparts for their rubber stamp existence. According to them, they lacked the will to do the homework and serve the public and, hence, their male relatives ran the show.
 
 They said women who were not interested in public service should not contest at all. This was not the case with these women corporators. They slogged as much as their male counterparts, perhaps even more.
 
 Former BJP corporator Kalpana Pande, who was the mayor in 2000, said that being an effective corporator was hard work and needed dedication. “You have to be available for the citizens to attend to their problems, even at odd hours. You have to meet the officers of   (NMC) regularly to follow up the issues. Unfortunately, most women don’t spare time for these activities,” she said.
 
 Pande, who is planning to contest again after a five-year gap, said in most cases, male corporators fielded their wives when their wards got reserved. “Most such women do not show any interest in public service. This is a wrong practice. If you don’t want to work hard then don’t contest. Don’t deny an opportunity to a deserving woman,” she added.
 
 Congress corporator Abha Pande said while 50% reservation for women got you elected, the woman had to develop herself by hard work. “In many cases, it is the husbands who represent the woman corporators in zone office, central office and before the citizens. If you don’t want to serve the people then don’t contest. More women are needed on the forefront because they are more sensitive to people’s problems than males,” she said.
 
 According to Shiv Sena corporator Alka Dalal, she was able to make a mark because she was educated and slogged a lot. “I used to study all the government resolutions (GRs) concerned. When you know the rules, no officer including the municipal commissioner can block your files. My study helped me do a lot of work as chairperson of women and child welfare committee,” she said.
 
 Former mayor Maya Iwnate of BJP said she did not know much about the NMC’s working when she was elected for the first time in 2002. 
 
 But she talks about how she made her way. “ My husband was very supportive and I gradually learnt the tricks. Other women corporators should also persevere in this way. It is easier for those who are genuine party workers and not wives of male corporators.” 
 
