BENGALURU: It's a  . Over 6,000 figurines are meticulously arranged in rows, with footnotes explaining a  . This is the scene at   in Basavanagudi, where the battle of Kurukshetra is this year's  . 

 Be it Lord Krishna counselling Arjuna, Yudhishthira taking over the throne of Hastinavathi, Arjuna creating a bed of arrows for Bhishma or Abhimanyu penetrating the the chakravyuha, the dolls depict major events which transpired during the 18-day war in the epic Mahabharata.Two months of hard work went into creating the stunning display, with the entire family pitching in.
 
 Brainstorming and researching on the theme began as early as July. And by August, the family members started placing the dolls as per the story line, says Veena.“The takeaway from Dasara celebrations is that we pass on our culture to our kids. My children delve deep into the subject, research about it and plan the entire arrange ment based on one theme.We pick up a story from mytholo g y and make sure the topic is relatively unknown,“ she adds.
 
 The family believes in simplify ing the mythological tale for those who come to see the display. They get at least 90100 visitors a day, who are spellbound by the spectacle.“This shows how hard the family has worked as a team.The display reveals some interesting nuggets of information, some of which I was unaware of. It has to be seen to be believed,“ says Padmavathi CV , Veena's friend. The warfare techniques employed by the Kauravas and counter techniques by Pandavas are well portrayed.
 
 While Veen' s son Kshiteesh Bharadwaj, a class 11 student, prepared the arrows for the warrior dolls using binding wire, her daughter Shrisha has arranged them thematically . “To get the hang of it, one should walk through the dolls slowly ,“ says Veena. To accommodate the dolls in two huge halls, the family has shifted some of the furniture to neighbouring houses. Apart from the Kurukshetra collection, traditional dolls are placed on seven steps on the third floor, which is used to preserve over 10,000 dolls the family has collected over the years. “We don't calculate how much we have spent on the dolls. The whole exercise makes us fit in both body and mind,“ says Veena's husband Ravindranath.
 
 Previous themes displayed by the family include Mahabharata, 108 Vishnu temples, Tirupathi hills, Mysuru Dasara Ambari, Dashavathara and Ramayana.
 
