MOHALI:   (CA) of the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has written a letter to   recommending action against the   the   

 Ravi Bhagat, chief administrator of GMADA, has also issued show cause notice to the concerned junior engineer for being negligent and not conducting timely inspection of the construction site. Bhagat has also written a letter to Deputy Commissioner (DC) recommending magisterial enquiry in to the matter. 
 
  TOI had highlighted the plight of the residents of Phase XI after foundation of their houses collapsed following construction of the Mohali Club. 
 
 Earlier, Bhagat had sought report from Amarbir Kaur Bhullar, estate officer plots and Devinder Singh superintending engineer of the authority.
 
 He has also directed the two officers to personally visit the spot and talk to the affected resident. They submitted the inspection report on Monday. 
 
 Bhagat said, "We have received the report and it has been found that the construction company had dug up the land beyond the permissible limit resulting in damaging the foundation of six odd houses." 
 
 He added, "Now we have recommended police action on this issue and have written a letter to Mohali police for taking necessary action as per the law. We have also issued show-cause notice to JE of the concern area for being negligent and not reporting the matter. Also we have written a letter to deputy commissioner (DC) recommending a magisterial enquiry of the site."
 
  While endorsing that she had received the letter, DC Mohali   said, "We have received the letter from CA-GMADA and we had sent SDM for inspection. It was found that administration has no role to play as the land purely belongs to GMADA. But if required and sought by either GMADA or police, we will deploy SDM level officer during the further enquiry by any of the authorities." 
 
  TOI had reported the plight of 10 families following the incident which forced them to vacate the houses and shift to temporary accommodations. Meanwhile, the construction company claimed that they have agreed to render all sorts of help to those affected . 
 
