KOCHI: The Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) Cochin   will introduce special   for transgenders from the   in July. The course is mostly aimed at enhancing the skills of those already employed. 

 IGNOU authorities said their immediate focus would be on the transgenders to be employed at  , who would require additional skills to enhance their career opportunities. 
 
 "For long, transgenders have been marginalized and denied equal opportunities in life. With good, inclusive education, they can be prepared for future," said M Rajesh, Regional Director, IGNOU, Kochi Regional Centre. 
 
 The centre will be offering mainly short-term skill development programs with a duration of a month to six months. These include computer literacy programs, which will offer the students basic computer skills, certificate courses in food and nutrition as well as a bachelor's preparatory programme (BPP) for educating those who do not have Plus 2 qualification but aspire for further studies and bachelor's degrees. 
 
 IGNOU authorities decided to start the short-term courses specially for transgenders after a transgender activist, Tripthy Shetty, approached IGNOU to check on the courses. "She informed that there are many like her who are interested to study but are worried about approaching authorities lest they are neglected," said Rajesh. IGNOU was the first university which opened admissions for distance education in all streams even for the 'other' category in 2012. 
 
 To start with, on Saturday, IGNOU has organized an exhibition at their regional campus wherein transgenders would get an opportunity to highlight their skills. Also, the same day an interaction between the transgenders and the IGNOU authorities will be conducted. 
 
 "We are expecting about 15-20 transgenders for the meeting. Each one of us have been looking at an opportunity to study and do well in life," said Tripthy Shetty. She admitted that due to lack of qualification and education they have few job opportunities. Also, there is marginalisation due to which get involved in sex trade and begging for survival.
 
 "We will be following up with those who come on Saturday with continuous psychological counselling aimed at getting them back to classroom with other students soon," said Rajesh.
 
 Though there has been a demand to subsidize the fess for the transgenders from the community members, Rajesh said that may not be immediately possible. "However, we will soon work with corporates to help with their fees so that it can be subsidized. Also, in the long run, once the transgenders have a graduation degree, we intend to start campus placement for them with the help of corporates," he added.
 
