NEW DELHI: The   ( ) is planning to redevelop the area near Saket City Mall and Press Enclave road following a visit by the lieutenant governor in the first week of January.

 LG   had conducted a surprise check to see the efforts put in by different agencies in the capital towards sanitation.
 
 The redevelopment plan includes making the area encroachment-free, removing illegal parking, construction of pavements and development of parks. Senior SDMC officials said that a meeting was held with various agencies and all will be involved to ensure that the order passed by the LG is implemented.
 
 Baijal had appointed south corporation commissioner   as the nodal officer for coordination between various agencies for improving sanitation in the capital. “During his visit, the LG had stressed on implementation of parking policy and all the stakeholders like the civic bodies, DDA, transport, PWD and Delhi Police are actively participating and coordinating with each other for the purpose,” said a senior SDMC official.
 
 “The south civic body will ensure that sanitary condition is maintained, apart from freeing the area of encroachments and illegal parking, in close coordination with Delhi Police and other agencies. We have been trying to decongest the area at the earliest,” said the official.
 
 Residents claim that the pavements in Saket are mostly encroached upon by vehicles or full of malba, leaving no space for pedestrians.
 
 “There is literally no space to walk on the pavements and illegal parking is a major problem for the area. We have been writing to the corporation for a long time, but no action has been initiated in the past,” said Bansilal, RWA president of Saket.
 
 “Now, due to the intervention of the LG a plan has come into the picture. We welcome the move, but the corporation should execute the plan and ensure that the rules are followed,” he added.
 
 Senior officials said that the parks will also be beautified in the area. “The Public Works Department has been instructed to beautify the areas under flyovers, while the corporation will renovate the parks,” said the south corporation official.
 
 “The emphasis is on beautification of the area and providing other services to people in an organised manner. We have initiated the work and it will get completed by February-end,” he added.
 
 
