CHENNAI: Asked how the DMK will vote in the assembly in the event of a floor test, M K Stalin, working president of the DMK, on Tuesday said, “The DMK’s stand will be beneficial to the country.”

 While Stalin’s cryptic statement may be open to interpretation, taken together with what he said on Monday and based on interviews with several DMK leaders, it appears that the DMK will rather allow the government to fall even if it meant fresh elections after a spell of President’s rule. The party sees itself as the beneficiary if a factional war were to break out, and plans to carefully position itself as a stable force that can address the people’s problems. Leaders recall the late 1980s when the AIADMK split after MGR’s demise and M Karunanidhi was voted to power with an overwhelming majority.
 
 The DMK, with 89 MLAs in the 233-member assembly, may choose to abstain from voting for tactical reasons in a particular situation but is not likely to bail out a rump AIADMK-led government for a long time. The party also calculates that the two factions may come around and work out an arrangement, if the BJP, in power at the Centre, lends enough weight.
 
 Observers point out that the DMK sees little value in propping up a non-DMK leader. It had made a show of sympathy bordering on support to O Panneerselvam, but on Monday Stalin came down strongly on OPS, saying he was only interested in saving his government.
 
 “Why would we project and give importance to someone from the AIADMK,” wondered a DMK leader when asked about the change in stance. The factional infighting within the AIADMK and the present anti-defection law that mandates 2/3rd of legislature party numbers for recognizing a split mean that the DMK has little scope for forming a government with support from a breakaway faction of the AIADMK.
 
 "We don't see a natural model that allows a stable government on our own. We don’t see a path from here to DMK's staking claim to power,” said another DMK leader with close links to Stalin.
 
 Meanwhile, all the DMK MLAs have been asked to rush to Chennai if they are not in the city and those in Chennai have been asked not to leave, so they can be fully present and vote in the Assembly as per instructions.
 
