KOLKATA:   appreciating decorations is one thing, but it doesn't stop there. Several of them, these days, even yank off   from pandals to preserve as keepsakes. This trend has become a major source of irritation and bother for  , some of whom had to even stop visitors from entering the pandal for a couple of hours to control the situation.

 Take the case of Hatibagan Sarbojonin, which has been a major draw this year, thanks to the colourful wooden birds from Varanasi that were brought in the thousands to adorn the pandal. The birds, ranging from two to six inches, many attached to lead pencils, were used to decorate the pandal. Throughout Puja, many visitors tore these away while walking out of the pandal, but on Sunday things went out of hand since visitors tore them off by the dozen and slid them into their bags. Angry organisers nabbed a large number of such visitors and recovered hundreds of birds and pencils from them.“The funny bit is that, they came up with answers like, `Since Puja is over, we thought these would be destroyed when the pandals are dismantled'.And most of these people are educated and quite well-off,“ complained Saswata Bose, joint secretary of the club. Visitors were stopped from entering the pandal for two hours, during which security was beefed up.Help also came from the local police station.
 
 This is not the first time that this Puja has suffered from vandalism. In 2013, when small model animals made out of buffalo horns were used for decorations, those too had been taken away by several visitors, Bose said.
 
 A similar fate was suffered by the  , which had folk and tri bal art as part of its theme. People found the papier mâché models attractive and tore them off the pandal.
 
 Behala Nutan Dal had become the talk of the town this year with its Andarmahal' theme that was inno` vatively created by Pradip Das, a young Government Art College passout. You had tiny kulungis at vantage points inside the pandal to recreate the feel of an old-world interior. In these shelves you had jars containing naru and nakuldana. Since these were within arm's reach, people were seen taking off jars to take out the goodies and eating them.
 
 Thakurpukur SB Park, however, learnt its lesson from past experience. In 2015, it had decorated its pandal with tiny brass utensils, which were heavily vandalized by visitors. “So, this time, when we decided to decorate our pandal with tiny wooden chairs, we arranged them in such a way that most of these would be out of reach. We had augmented security at all points where the decoratives were within reach,“ said Sanjoy Majumdar, cultural secretary of the club.
 
 
