CHENNAI: The stark interior of an operation theatre, the wait for a donor, waking up with a stranger's heart beating inside -Reena Raju was familiar with it all as she steeled herself for a second heart transplant. Eight years ago she had gone through the same drill and lived to be an example for other organ recipients like her.

 Ahead of World Heart Day , the 35-year-old national-level hockey player from Bengaluru had a message for those who are ailing: “I believe in miracles. I am here today because of two families I've never met,“ said   on Thursday , five days after she underwent a heart transplant for the second time.
 
 At the beginning of this month, Reena -who emerged as the face of   in the country after she underwent the procedure in 2009 -suffered multiple episodes of blackouts due to low blood pressure. Tests revealed multiple blocks in the blood vessels of the heart. “Bypass wasn't an option. There was close to 90% blockage in her vessels. A second transplant was the only way forward,“ said Dr K M Cherian, chairman of  , where Reena was referred to.
 
 She was immediately put She was immediately put on ventilator and mechanical support was provided for her fast-failing heart through extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO). She was also put on the urgent list for heart transplant. “Coordination was difficult. Her condition was deteriorating. But we didn't want to lose hope,“ said Dr Cherian. And then came the call on September 23. A family had agreed to donate the organs of their kin who was declared `brain dead'. It was a match.
 
 Doctors and the state transplant authority lost no time. The heart was harvested and transplanted the same day . This is the second time Dr Cherian has undertaken a procedure on someone who is an organ recipient. In the other case, the person required an angioplasty six years after she underwent a transplant. “I have patients of mine living for more than 15 years with a transplanted heart,“ said Dr Cherian.
 
 The medical team also produced a 13-year-old girl from   who underwent a heart transplant at the hospital recently . The daughter of two daily wagers, she was saved not just by the magnanimity of the donor's family but a group of doctors who came together to fund the procedure on September 18, two weeks after she was brought to the hospital.
 
