BHOPAL: The EVM that triggered nationwide controversy after reeling out BJP voter slips during a dummy test in Bhind was routed here from Kanpur after being used in the UP assembly poll, an Election Commission team said on Sunday after testing it.

 A five-member EC team reached Bhind on Sunday morning and conducted a random test of VVPAT machines. They also checked the lotus-slip EVM and said it was faulty. The controversy has already led to the removal of Bhind collector Illayaraja T, SP Anil Singh Kushwaha and SDOP Indraveer Singh, while 19 other officials face an inquiry with only a week to go for the Ater assembly bypoll.
 
 The Delhi team, which includes director-IT & infrastructure Mukesh Meena, additional secretary Madhusudan and AGM ECIL S K Singh said the ‘faulty’ machine was one of 300 sent from Kanpur after the recent UP elections. Going by the slips that it dispensed during the demo in Bhind by state chief electoral officer Saleena Singh on Friday, It was last used in Kanpur’s Govindnagar seat, say sources. 
 
 Congress has now questioned how these EVMs reached MP within 20 days of the UP election results. Congress and AAP staged protests on Sunday demanding the removal of CEO Singh. She was holding a demo for journalists when BJP slips allegedly came out on pressing different buttons. An alleged video of this went viral on Friday. Singh, however, says that the EVM later dispensed a Congress slip as well and EVMs cannot be tampered.
 
 The Bhind controversy has come handy for Delhi CM   who met chief election commissioner Naseem Zaidi earlier on Sunday and demanded paper ballot voting, raising doubts over the use of 12,000-odd EVMs in the upcoming MCD polls.
 
 On the other hand, resentment is brewing among the public against the transfer of Illayaraja T — the collector who won people’s hearts by taking a strong stand against the mining mafia and criminals and encouraging education. A large number of students and businessmen gathered at the collectorate on Sunday morning to protest the government's decision to remove the young IAS officer, saying he was not directly responsible for the EVM controversy. They sat under tents to hide from the 40-degree heat. When police removed their tents, the agitators moved inside the collectorate and sat under a tree to continue with their agitation. They said action against the collector was uncalled for.
 
 Among the protesters was a group of students from a coaching class initiated by Illayaraja to guide them for the civil services examinations.
 
 IAS officer Gopal Krishna and IPS Sushant Saxena have been posted as new collector and SP of Bhind district respectively. 
 
 
  
 
 
