CHENNAI: After a spike in the number of   in the past few months, the   cooperatives societies has directed its officers not to initiate legal action against farmers   payments. Nearly one lakh farmers had defaulted during last fiscal year, ostensibly due to drought situation in the state.

 An order to this effect was issued by the registrar of cooperative societies last week. “No statutory action shall be instituted against farmers for recovery of overdue loans from cooperative credit societies and no statutory notice shall be issued to them until further orders,” it said, recalling the government’s declaration of the entire state as drought-affected. The drought coupled with despair had the farmers taking their own lives in the recent months, and protests for drought relief made headlines across the country.
 
 As many as 7.62 lakh farmers availed loans to the tune of Rs 4,227 crore from the cooperative credit societies last year. “Due to the drought, regional officers have been directed not to trouble farmers with legal notices,” said an official. No interest is charged on crop loans for farmers who repay within a year, notwithstanding the 7% interest. The state meets the interest subsidy for crop loan, which is paid to cooperative institutions. Defaulters usually end up paying penal interest.
 
 While the state’s assessment revealed 13,305 villages – 68% of the total number of villages in TN — were drought hit, district collectors have been told to ask farmers to convert short-term loans into mid-term ones. “We don’t want to create any crisis for farmers,” cooperative minister Sellur K Raju told TOI. About 47,000 farmers have converted the short-term loans to the tune of Rs 144 crore to medium-term loans until May and got additional two years for repayment.
 
 Officials said the primary agricultural cooperative credit societies have also been told to issue new crop loans whether the previous loan was repaid or not. The government has estimated Rs 7,000 crore for disbursement of crop loan this year. K Balakrishnan, president of Tamil Nadu Farmers Association, alleged reports continued to emerge about private banks exerting pressure on farmers for loan repayment. “TN waived the crop loan for small and marginal farmers, but the Centre is not keen on a similar exercise this year,” the leader said.
 
 
