TRICHY:   (BDU) in Trichy has been exploiting temporary teaching staff appointed in its constituent colleges. They are asked to work for 50 to 60 hours a month but are paid only for 40 hours.

 A copy of the salary statement of a guest faculty hired on hourly basis, accessed by TOI, shows that the faculty has worked for 51 hours but has been paid only for 40 hours. During the 2015-2016 academic year, the university hired 85 guest faculty for its constituent colleges across the district. This was to meet the needs of the new PG courses introduced. In the following academic year, another 110 guest faculty were appointed.
 
 “We just have to accept their terms else we will be left without a job,” said one guest faculty. Former president,   (AUT),  , said that the university is trying to do away with the appointment of permanent teaching staff by appointing guest faculty. This has been happening since 2006, to cut down on expenses, he added.
 
 Guest faculty are eligible for vacation salary and their experience is taken into account for career advancement. They can seek priority during permanent appointment of teaching faculty in government run colleges since they are appointed by the university. But this is not the case with guest faculty hired on an hourly basis.
 
 “There is no future for us as BDU doesn’t provide us with any offer letter specifying our job profile. Our future in the teaching profession is uncertain as our experience is not taken into account for permanent appointment of faculties in government-run colleges,” said a guest faculty hired on hourly basis in a constituent college under BDU.
 
 When TOI contacted registrar in-charge of Bharathidasan University, R  , over phone, he said that the university administration has been following the UGC norms in terms in paying salary to the guest faculty hired on hourly basis. When this TOI reporter confronted him about the teaching staff hired on an hourly basis being under paid, he refused to comment.
 
 As per the   norms, guest faculty should be appointed on hourly basis only to compensate for classes when regular staff go on leave. However, the university has been hiring temporary staff to do away with permanent staff.
 
 “If guest faculty are paid as per the hours they have worked, it would exceed Rs12,000 per month which is the maximum sealing fixed for the faculty hired on hourly basis,” said the principal of a BDU constituent college in the district.
 
