DUBAI:  , India's newly-appointed   non-playing captain, got down to business, dashing off e-mails to players, asking them to complete a bunch of fitness tests before the second-round clash against Denis Itsomin's   in Bengaluru from April 7 to 9.

 “Fitness is the number No. 1 issue that Indian tennis faces,” Bhupathi, 42, who has taken over the reins of captaincy from Anand Amritraj, told TOI on the sidelines of the Dubai Duty Free tennis championships.
 
 “Playing five sets, handling Davis Cup pressures all contribute to the situation, it's not an easy ask, but we have to be prepared and I want to know,“ the former Davis Cupper said. “That's why I've asked for the tests to be done, to figure out what is missing and accordingly I can decide whether or not someone can play a fifth rubber. I want to be aware.”
 
 Bhupathi said he doesn't want a repeat of the drama that preceded the last tie, India's 2017 opener against New Zealand. The hosts were desperately looking for a replacement for the injured Saketh Myneni a day before the draw. “I'm in touch with the players; I know where they are playing, how they're playing. I'm in touch with them once every 48 hours almost,” he said.
 
 The team selection for the February clash - when India's No. 1 doubles pro   was overlooked for the 43-year-old   - raised eyebrows and questions on selection policies of the AITA committee. The selectors, short of answers the last time round, will meet early next week to pick the team for the April clash.
 
 “We don't need to announce the team till one day before the tie, we'll have a team of six, with two juniors (or young players) and pick from that,” Bhupathi said, refusing to put down a composition. “Whether or not we'll have a specialist doubles team depends on the opposition. I'm not just talking about the next tie, but in general. It'll depend on who we're playing, where we're playing and the conditions. I'm aware of doubles being crucial to the outcome, but there are four other matches that we could win, we should win and work towards winning. The question will be how we get the three wins needed to close out a tie. So, for some ties, we may go with a specialist doubles side, others with three singles players.”
 
 Bhupathi said there were no emotions involved when he picked Bengaluru's Karnataka State Lawn Tennis Association facility for the second-round tie. “I thought those conditions suit us best. It might also suit Istomin, who's playing great tennis, but it's also our best chance,” Bhupathi, formerly ranked World No. 1in doubles, said.
 
 The 42-year-old, who once called the Garden City home, said captaincy was a new challenge. “Most of the players, I've either played with or against, which is a unique situation,” he said.
 
