As the calendar turns over to the beginning of Hindu New Year, most of the Bhopalis observe fast for Chaitra  . Keeping up the tradition of ancestors, even young denizens go through nine days of abstinence from all varieties of grains and common salt. They rely upon fruit based and milk based products for sustenance through the hot days. To the their delight, café’s and food outlets around the city are providing delivery options at homes and offices, a facility that was not available previously. Moreover, every food outlet right from roadside kiosks to high end   are providing specially designed menu of fasting food for these nine days. So it is happy fasting this year for Bhopalis!

  
  
 
  As the city is growing, so are its ways. This year’s Chaitra Navratri has become slightly more convenient for young office goers and people fasting at home, with thalis and khicdi getting delivered at their doorstep or main gates. Ashok Soni, owner of one such outlet states, “Being in the hub of corporate offices, we see a lot of working professionals thronging our outlet for vrat ka khaana during Navratri. Most of them have to specially come down to the outlet just to satiate their hunger. So this year our food is getting delivered to their offices and homes via food apps. To keep up the spirit of festival we lay utmost importance on quality and type of materials used.”
 
  Gaurav Saxena, a 29-year-old sales professional who is observing fast this Navratri shares, “We get so caught up in our schedules that health and hunger gets the last priority. With various outlets opening up to the idea of delivery, this period has become better for people like me.” Nitisha Gupta, a HR professional also echoes the same sentiment, “I am glad that our trusted outlets are catching up with the fast pace of work life. I observe this fast every year, and I have sabudana khichdi and buttermilk only once during the day. But the entire process of making that khichdi is very time consuming, which is why most people like me prefer getting it from these food outlets. These days, a group of us get together and order our respective choices via apps. It is indeed a happy fasting period!”
  
  
 
 
  Gone are the days when a person would have to struggle to find a decent eatery for consumption of specially made fasting food. Catching up with the vrat game, uptown café and coffee shops which are generally known for the contemporary menu have also started serving sabudana khichdi, fruit platters, singhade ka poori and kaddu ki sabzi. Jaydeep Kumar Nayak, head chef of a Restobar states, “In our culture, feeding a person who practices any kind of penance is considered as an auspicious act. Keeping that and the evolving culture of fast, we have also started serving specially designed fasting food consisting of fruit raita, sabudana delicacies, makhane ka kheer, roasted sweet potatoes et.al. All these dishes are prepared with sendha namak (a form of rock salt) and in cooked in Ghee.” 
  
 
 
 
  Keeping up the festive fervour young denizens prefer to eat out instead of cooking at home. Vyomesh Adhikari, a 22 year old student says, “Due to my early morning classes, I don’t like to trouble anyone at home to make that special vrat food for me solely. I’d rather eat a sabudana khichdi plate available at kiosks around my college at just Rs. 30 a plate. Even if I keep this up for all nine days, it is not beyond the budget of my pocket money.” Even working professionals are following the same trend. Anshul Rajdev, a 30-year-old banker says, “I don’t get time to put together an elaborate fasting meal for my husband and myself early in the morning. With a variety of options available at our favourite food joints and cafes we prefer taking that meal. A typical vrat thali ranges from Rs. 80-100, while khichdi and buttermilk is available only for Rs. 30 or 20, so we generally order for a mix of various items over the fasting period.” 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
