LUCKNOW: The 8km stretch between   in   remained jam-packed for at least four hours on Sunday due to swearing in ceremony of BJP leaders and back-to-back VIP movements in the city. Dignitaries including governor Ram Naik and DyCM Keshav Prasad Maurya, apart from hundreds of senior government officers too had to wait patiently for jam to clear up.

 Situation worsened after 11.30am when all roads to Aashiana via Hazratganj and Cantt were choked and thousands of vehicles crawled on the route. GPO crossing, Bandariyabagh, Cantt flyover, Sarojini Naidu Marg (outside Pratibha theatre and Annexe building), Raj Bhawan, Awadh Hospital chauraha, Bangla Bazar and Uthrathia, witnessed bottlenecks for up to six hours and the situation got normal only around 5.30pm.
 
 According to traffic police personnel, city traffic was crippled as thousands of motor vehicles from various parts of the state started heading towards the venue at the same time to attend the ceremony. Back-to-back VVIP movements on Amausi-Barabirwa (Piccadilly Hotel) stretch only compounded the problem and ripple effect held up vehicles for up to 3km. A native of Rae Bareli district and young party worker Paramveer Singh was one such who started out for the venue at 11am from sector 14, Indiranagar in his SUV. “I got stuck at Bandariyabagh crossing and traffic was just not moving till Cantonment so I turned towards Raj Bhawan and decided to go via Lal Bahadur Shastri Bhawan but again I got stuck and reversed to try the GPO crossing and could not take left turn towards BJP office from the main crossing for 15 minutes with no way to reverse the vehicle any further,” said Singh. He continued to battle the bottleneck thereafter hoping to make it to the venue on time. Resident of Bhadruk in Aashiana, Harsh Jaiswal had to drop his cousin sister to the railway station on motorcycle. 
 
 “Normally, it takes 15 to 20 minutes to reach Charbagh from Bangla Bazar and Old Jail road but today the situation is different, hence I started 90 minutes in advance,” said Jaiswal, struggling to get past thousands of pedestrians moving towards Smriti Upvan. His house was located just across Bangla Bazar market road.
 
 Manpower deployed and resources available were insufficient to deal with the massive turnout on the roads. Vehicles were parked haphazardly all around Smriti Upvan. The half-a-dozen towing cranes deputed at the site were deployed to safeguard Amausi-Barabirwa-Powerhouse crossing-Bijli Pasi Qila–Smriti Upvan route. Additional superintendent of traffic police Habibul Hasan said the route had been earmarked only for VIP movement.
 
 
