NEW DELHI: As the   prepares for a 100% rollout of VVPATs and mandatory counting of   in a fixed percentage of polling stations across all constituencies, a preliminary estimation by the watchdog indicates the move will lead to a three-hour delay in declaration of poll result. 

 According to sources in the commission, an internal committee set up by EC to discuss the modalities of fully VVPAT-based polls and proposed matching of paper trail with   count in a few polling stations of each assembly segment, is looking at various options regarding when the paper trail count should be scheduled.
 
 "If it is to take place first, as in the case of postal ballots, the first trends may not be available before 11am. As of now, EVM count throws up initial trends within half-an-hour of the start of counting," an official said.
 
 The functionary said the panel also foresees possibility of tension between supporters of rival parties at counting centres, given the long wait till 11am before they can know which way the poll outcome is going. "Even if counting of paper slips is undertaken at the end of the EVM count, declaration of poll result will still have to wait for three hours more," an EC official said. The estimate is based on the fact that this is the average time taken to complete one round of manual counting.
 
 
 
 
 EC is expected to release guidelines on counting of   trail soon, enabling its introduction in   and Himachal polls due this year-end. "We decided not to go for an amendment of rules as the process would take longer," said an EC official.
 
 The EC committee is looking at mandatory counting of paper slips in no more than 4-5% of the polling stations in each constituency. AAP, incidentally, wants this percentage to be fixed at 25%. "This is impractical as it would delay counting and declaration of results by as much as 26 hours," said an official. It is still being discussed if polling stations for paper trail counting may be picked randomly or in consultation with the candidates.
 
 
 
 
 
