A week-long search for a history-sheeter bore fruit on Saturday, when he was arrested at the stroke of midnight after he had paid obeisance at a   at Marine Lines. A five-member team from the Dadar   (RPF) would have said a quick thank-you to the Lord, as the thief's routine of visiting a particular shrine every week played a part in the arrest.

 Ashok Pawar, 60, a petty thief from Dadar, had gone missing after he stole a portable data terminal (a machine that's used to swipe cards and read barcodes) from the Central Railway's chief parcels supervisor's office on platform number seven at the Dadar Station on March 17. It emerged upon his arrest that the device, costing around Rs 20,000, was sold to a scrap dealer in   for a measly Rs 30.
 
 The device had a huge collection of data, and the RPF formed teams to trace it.
 
 A senior railway cop who was a part of the search team said such devices have SIM cards which are used to trace them, just the way mobile phones are tracked. In this case, the device's location was shown to be Chor Bazaar.
 
 “We identified the thief through CCTV images. He was captured entering the office, and inquiries revealed his identity and address. He lived in a shanty near Dadar station, and we spoke to shopkeepers and other shanty-dwellers, who revealed the thief was a very religious person,“ said Sachin Bhalode, senior divisional security commissioner, RPF-Central Railway.
 
 Investigation further revealed the thief's routine: A visit to a gurudwara in   every Monday, a Friday visit to the Mahim Dargah, and an obeisance to Hanuman every Saturday at a temple at Marine Lines. “Our teams camped near these three places of worship and sure enough, he was spotted coming out of the Hanuman temple on Saturday night.He has been booked under Section 3 of the Railway Protection Act for unlawful possession and sent in judicial custody for two weeks,“ Bhalode said.
 
 The police also traced the device buyer, Aziz, who confirmed he had bought it for Rs 30. Aziz has also been booked for unlawful possession of railway property.
 
 “We had to act fast because it would have been very difficult to trace the device once its batteries drain out,“ Bhalode said.
 
