Writer and lyricist  , who belongs to small village in Amethi, was unwittingly caught in a war of words after he recently wrote a song for   for their election campaign. Having received an award from   last month, supporters of the party criticised Muntashir for being 'bewafaa' to a political party, which had bestowed on him such an honour.

  
  The chulha in the kitchen of his house in the village, on which his mother cooked food. "Uss khaane ka swaad was better than the one cooked by a seasoned chef," says Manoj
 
 
 "I was caught in this political maelstrom unnecessarily," says Muntashir. "I had been approached to write this song and I did that. I had never expected this backlash. I must have got at least a million calls and messages when the song was released. I was called all sorts of names and a traitor for writing for a rival party. But my take is that I will write for whichever party approaches me, irrespective of whether it is  , SP or BJP. Writing is my forte and I belong to this state, so I will do whatever is asked of me for the state. It's not as if I take an award from one party but go ahead and write for another rival party. I am not unfaithful, I am just doing my job," added the writer, who has also penned the dialogues for Hindi version of Baahubali. "I am so grateful to the present government for giving me this award, and the recognition that one gets at home is incomparable to any other award," says Muntashir.
 
  One thing that the singer regrets is not being able to come home to vote. "I migrated to Mumbai 18 years ago, so now I cast my vote in Mumbai only. I am not eligible to vote in UP, but I follow the UP political scene very keenly and minutely. I have friends in all major parties of the state, and I wish them all the best," he says.
 
 
  
  "The village well, which was enough to quench the thirst of entire village. Mineral water was just not needed," says Muntashir
 
 
  Manoj, who also made a quick trip to his village on his mother's insistence, shared some cherished memories from his childhood. Taking pride in being from Uttar Pradesh, Muntashir tells us, "As a kid, I was very fond of eating mud. And co-incidentally, the house that we lived in was made of mud, toh main pura din uski deewarein chaatata rehta tha. And for that I would get scolded by my mom. That's why now when people say that they find my writing very earthy, I can't help but remember my childhood," says Manoj.
 
  
  The huge tree behind Manoj's house in  . "Woh ped jahan jhoola daal ke main din bhar khelta thaa," Manoj recalls
 
 
  Recalling his childhood days, Muntashir adds, "One distinct memory that I have is of these big thick rope swings with long wooden planks that we would have in our village during saawan. There is a huge tree behind our house jis pe jhoola daala jata tha. Woh ped aaj bhi hai. My maasis, buas and friends would all swing on it and sing songs, with me perched on their lap. Woh jhoola jhoolna and koel ki awaaz aaj bhi mujhe bahut achhi tarah yaad hai. Another vivid memory is of my school where we used to sit on the floor on jute sacks and study. There was one master who used to teach all the classes aur unke paas ek badi si chhadi hoti thi. We were so scared of the chhadi ki shaayad bhoot se bhi utna nahi darte thay. But that time still feels like the best time, despite the conditions that we lived in."
 
 
 
 
