KOLKATA: Social media had started working overtime last week by sharing an audio clip which was claimed to be Shakira’s rendition of Paul Robeson’s ‘Ol’ Man River’ and Bhupen Hazarika’s ‘Ganga Behti Ho Kyu’! From WhatsApp to Facebook, this clip went viral. Some even went on to praise how good Shakira’s Hindi pronunciation is. Little did they realise that the clip was actually a hoax. The voice of this recording was that of acclaimed singer  . The recording was her tribute to Paul Robeson’s Ol’ Man River and Bhupen Hazarika’s ‘Ganga Behti Ho Kyu?’ TOI speaks to her on this issue. Excerpts:

 
 
 I have been singing for 50 years now. This is the first time that I have come across such a hoax. Some four days back, I received this clip from a listener in Jaipur who was amazed to see that my voice has been passed off as that of Shakira.
 
 
 
 
 Way back in 1999, I had recorded this song for an album with Raga music label called ‘Amra Korbo Joy’. Again in 2003, I recorded the same number for an album called ‘Agrogotir Pathe’. It is strange that after so many years, this song surfaced on social media without giving me credit. I have had a long association with  . I have sung with him on stage. He would sing ‘Ganga Behti Ho Kyu’ in this manner. Bhupen-da was alive when I had first recorded this number. I used to sing on a scale that was higher than what Bhupen-da would usually sang in. He would often sing on B Flat, A or C natural scale while I sang on C. Therefore, my rendition of this song was very different from that of others. In the last couple of days, I have had calls from people across the globe asking me how my recording has been passed off as that of Shakira. Finally, the owner of the music label got in touch with YouTube. It was removed after that.
 
 
 
 That is the irony of life. I am wondering if I should take look at it positively or negatively. People are protesting this hoax and that’s important for me. I am waiting for others to join in this protest too.
 
 
 
 It shows the ignorance of people. It also reveals how little people know about Shakira’s voice. They might recognise her but they don’t really know her voice. Otherwise, why would they mistake my voice with that of her? The saddest part is that there is hardly any media coverage these days on mass singers. Sometimes, they are wrongly clubbed with folk singers. On other occasions, mass singers are confused with people who sing for a particular political party. But that’s not the truth. If I was eulogising only one political party, I would by now have got some awards in my kitty. Nothing of that sort has happened to me. Mass singers believe in a certain philosophy of life. I sing because I believe in the Marxist ideology and want to give a voice to the struggling people of the society.
 
 
 
 
 Not at all. I have had a very long association with Hemanga-da. He and I had sung the ‘Sankhacheel’ song. It became very popular so much so that I was later even addressed as ‘Sankhacheel’ Purabi. Sadly, Hemanga-da never got the recognition he deserved. Salil Chowdhury got so much of acclaim. I respect him a lot too. But I also understand that a large part of that recognition was because of his success in the commercial world. Hemanga-da never believed in making any compromises. Today, even reality shows have contestants singing his songs. But then, there too an awkward thing happens.
 
 
 
 Whenever a stanza has a strong political commentary, the singer skips it during the performance. Remember his song ‘Ami je dekhechhi shei desh’? I have heard people sing it but they delete the stanza on  . This happens in case of other songs too. A song like ‘Thakile Dobakhana’ is immensely popular. It was a creation of Gurudas Pal. Even today, it is performed widely. But the singers delete the stanza on ‘bhondo yogi…’ When I hear such renditions, I feel it is an assault on these numbers. It is like amputating the limbs of a baby and then showing him to the world. That’s a great disservice to mass singers. People want to ride on the popularity of the numbers but don’t want to retain the powerful lines. A society that does such a thing will naturally also confuse my voice with that of Shakira.
 
