Edited

 Madurai: Madurai city has 190 water-bodies, including irrigation tanks, temple tanks, kanmais and smaller ponds, and has had the mercy of Rain God in the recent past. But in spite of Madurai having received fairly good rainfall, 361 mm from June to September to be exact, many of these water-bodies continue to remain dry, thanks to encroachments and clogged channels, say experts.
 
 The district as a whole has been receiving intermittent rainfall, including some days like September 8 when the city recorded 108 mm of rainfall — the average rainfall throughout the district on that day was 23.42 mm. If rainwater harvesting structures and the channels bringing water to the tanks had been kept in good condition, this rain could have helped to increase the groundwater table level.
 
 J Kanagavalli, water expert and programme co-ordinator at Dhan Foundation, says, “Last year’s drought proved how important it was to maintain the water harvesting structures that we now have, instead of going for new ones. The present Madurai city had 33 large water-bodies and they had existed till about three decades ago, by 1994 14 of these large water-bodies were lost as concrete structures were built on them.”
 
 After the expansion the Madurai Corporation’s total area went up to 148 square kilometres and there are 190 water bodies in its limits. Kanagavalli says some of the tanks on the outskirts were well-maintained by the people themselves like the Madakulam tank, which is now awaiting the arrival of the monsoon. The water-bodies were well maintained till the users of the tank were the custodians of it.
 
 Out of the 190 tanks 40 have lost their originality and now hold more sewage than good water. Almost all the waterways to the tanks are not maintained and remain clogged with garbage or encroached upon. “This is the time that we should act, otherwise how did Goripalayam which is on the banks of river Vagai become flooded in the recent rains, if the drains were maintained and in good condition,’’ she says, adding that water that flows into tanks and rainwater harvesting structures and on non-concretised channels will percolate and reach the groundwater table.
 
 Vandiyur, Madakulam, Sellur and Thenkkal are the only tanks which are alive now, though all of them have shrunk in size, but the waterways of these major tanks are either damaged or blocked. She says that conducting a detail study into the current status of the waterways and taking action to maintain them was the only way to save Madurai in future. The above mentioned tanks today are at least ready to hold water not because of the authorities but because of the people who depend on them. It was the Federation of Vandiyur Tank Water Development, Sellur Tank Restoration Association, and NGOs, which did some work on the tanks — some of them with their own funds. 
 
 Former councillor K Thilagar says that they had taken all efforts to desilt the Sellur tank and petitioned the government, when no action was taken, they decided to desilt it “but it rained and now the tank is holding a few feet of water, and borewells which had been bone dry are now yielding water. But if there is more rain all that water would overflow and go waste,” he adds.
 
 Oldest temple tanks in Madurai which could recharge groundwater:
 
 Name Area Capacity:
 
 Mariamman Teppakulam 22.97 hectare 0.24 MCM (million cubic meter)
 
 Koodal Alagar Teppakulam 01.25 hectare 0.01 MCM
 
 Tallakulam Teppakulam 03.70 hectare 0.01 MCM 
 
 Ramar Oorani ( P.Natham) 03.46 hectare 0.01 MCM 
 
 
