Minister for women and child development
 i says indifference of police and low conviction rate are primarily responsible for the spiral of crimes against women. In an interview to TOI’s 
 the minister suggests that police forces across states should have 33% women in their ranks to change the approach. She also laments the disruption in  , which prevented the maternity benefits amendment bill from being taken up by the  . Excerpts:

 
 
 
 No matter how stringent the laws are, ultimately it is a question of power play between men and women. As the male species get more and more frustrated, especially the younger generation — no jobs, very little education and no prospects or so they think — they take it out on somebody who they think is weaker than them. We have taken every precaution in the law. For instance, we have started setting-up ‘One Stop’ Centres and we are now coming up with the panic button. We have done as much as we could for women safety. In terms of violence against women, India is closer to the bottom of the world index. I am saying this on the basis of statistics given out by  . I am not citing this as an excuse. I myself want to understand why this is happening.
 
 
 
 
 We have fast-track courts but then they end up being slow track courts. If conviction are faster, we would have more fear. Having 33% women in the police force can be a deterrence to crime against women. Seven states have done it. The states who have not yet done it are just being lazy. We are following up almost every 15 days along with the ministry of home affairs. There is also a widespread belief that police will do nothing. I agree policing is lacking in certain ways.
 
 
 
 
 I am very strict about this Fund which has Rs 2,000 crore in it. There were many suggestions which would have served no purpose. A state wanted me to provide from the Fund for constructing lounges for women at bus stops. Similarly, I don’t think CCTVs in buses are any good. What I have suggested is that we want to put most of the money in One Stop Centres – to develop them as our front line defence. Each of these centres will have a nurse, doctor, psychologist, lawyers and documents for follow-ups. I want to set-up 665 centres by end of 2017.
 
 
 
 I was really keen on this amendment which will change nutritional patterns and mother-child bonding. It would be a game-changer. This bill was listed as number one every day, but the Lok Sabha did not run in the winter session. The way Parliament was not allowed to function was irresponsible. If there is a problem, you talk about it and not stall proceedings. I can’t tell you how sad women are. ¢Despite your optimism why was the Trafficking of Persons (Prevention, Protection and Rehabilita-tion) Bill not approved by the cabinet?
 
 I was very keen to see it come in the winter session but then it didn’t clear all the ministries and couldn’t get to cabinet in time. Around 15 drafts bills were made through the process of consultations with stakeholders. What we put out in the public domain was the base draft and then reworked it and only when we were satisfied with the document that we went ahead. Now it is with the cabinet. Hopefully, the bill will make it in the next session. One big change is it will stop the survivor of trafficking from being treated like a criminal. It focusses on rehabilitation. 
 
 
 
 
 What has changed is that you have a large number of 16-year-olds, who otherwise went scot-free, are now being apprehended. I don’t know whether I would put a 16-year-old as a child but all I know is that what we have here is a very nuanced Act. When this 16-year-old boy is taken, he is not sent to the adult system. He is given many chances. What we have thought to deter is people making 16-year-olds commit crimes just because they are juveniles.
 
 
 
 
