BENGALURU: “Much of your life is not in your control, except your attitude”. This was   from the University of Minnesota addressing an enthusiastic batch of graduates at   on Monday. 

 Dr Badrinath, chair, department of urology, University of Minnesota, and an alumnus of MS Ramaiah, was speaking at the convocation ceremony, which saw 220 students from undergraduate, physiotherapy, postgraduate and super-specialty courses graduate.
 
 It was a big day for Samarth S Gowda, who won a gold medal — the Dr Chan Peck Lui Award — for the best outgoing student and four other awards for his performance in different subjects. Deepthi G bagged seven awards. 
 
 “I joined the course two months late and I can hardly believe that I am leaving with a gold medal. The best part about this institution is that it never made me drown into books. A lot of importance was given to our overall growth. I was also part of the college basketball team,” said Samarth, who wants to pursue radiology or paediatrics.
 
 
 
 History repeated itself 41 years later when Dr Devesh Ballal graduated from the college with five awards. His father, Dr Sudarshan Ballal, had achieved the same feat in 1976, when he graduated from Kasturba Medical College, Mangaluru.
 
 Dr Devesh is currently pursuing MS surgery from his father’s alma mater. He topped the first year of MBBS (2011) with a score of 792 out of 1000; topped in opthalmology and paediatrics in 2013 and 2014 respectively and received two endowment awards —   for best outgoing undergraduate student in opthalmology (December 2013) and Shri MS Somaraj Urs Memorial award for best outgoing undergraduate student in paediatrics (December 2014).
 
 The young medico has an inclination towards hepatology (study and treatment of liver) and surgical oncology (treatment of cancerous tumours). “When I worked with an onco-surgeon, I realized the field has a dearth of doctors,” said Dr Devesh.
 
 Dr Sudarshan Ballal, chairman, medical advisory board, Manipal Hospital, was elated with his son’s success. “Parents are always proud when their children overachieve,” he said.
 
 Eight students bagged 14 awards for individual subjects; 22 endowment awards were conferred on the best outgoing students for undergraduate and postgraduate courses. 
 
