In the  ,   are shrinking at an alarming rate. Now,  , the city’s last surviving grasslands, is being threatened by   being dumped illegally at night. This   of   has, until now, managed to remain relatively untouched. But the reckless and illegal dumping of solid waste by contractors of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike may soon change that.

 Locals claim that for the last month and a half, garbage is not only being dumped quietly at night, but also being burnt. This has put the sensitive area – that has several critical research institutes – and the lake bed at high risk of pollution.
 
 “We have seen tractors, compactors and goods rickshaws going into the woods at night to dump garbage when it should have been taken to disposal units or dump yards near Dobbespet Industrial area. But to make things easy for themselves, many have started dumping garbage here,” said Muniraju, a local.
 
 Mahesh Bhat, a resident, says there are designated spots – “after the Central Poultry Development (CPD) Organisation” – were garbage is being dumped regularly at night. “There is a big banyan tree a few hundred metres from the CPD towards Byatha village. You will find plenty of garbage heaps there. We’ve complained repeatedly, but nothing has been done,” he said.
 
 According to Bhat, several important research projects have been carried out in this region. Besides the CPD, the animal husbandry department also has its semen bank here. Polluting this area by dumping and burning of garbage can significantly affect the functioning of these institutes, besides polluting the lake bed, he said.
 
 “Crores of rupees have been invested in rejuvenating the Arkavathi. The fact that the Hesaraghatta Lake has had water in the last few years has rekindled hope for this ecosystem. But this dumping of garbage may spoil every effort made until now,” said Bhat, adding that it was time the government stepped in firmly.
 
 
 
 
 Hesaraghatta has another menace. It is frequented by motorists who come with their two-wheelers and four-wheelers to try out what they insist is “off-road driving”.
 
 “The fragile grasslands here are damaged because of vehicles trying out stunts here. Added to this are the many film shootings that inevitably leave behind mounds of garbage, synthetic colours and other substances that harm the ecosystem.
 
 “Even though policemen were deployed here for a few months to keep out such illegal activities, things are going bad again,” said another resident, who did not want to be identified.
 
