NEW DELHI: After two wins,   were blown away by Kolkata Knight Riders but still remain in the top half of the   leaderboard with four points, the same as the top two teams of the tournament. On Saturday at the Feroz Shah Kotla, they will be up against the team that has suddenly looked rejuvenated following a massive 97-run win, hosts  . 

 Thought its still early days, Daredevils' batting and bowling clicked wonderfully in the last match, with   scoring the first century of IPL 2017, Chris Morris larruping 38 off nine balls and the wise pair of Zaheer Khan and Amit Mishra claiming three wickets each. This sends them into the next match on a high. 
 
 Against KKR on Thursday, KXIP were hit hard by a three-wicket over and that is where the match was lost. They possess the firepower to regroup fast, and how their batsmen tackle Delhi's bowlers on a slow Kotla track could be the deciding factor on Saturday. KXIP know Delhi can beat any team on their day, and will be looking forward to the challenge. 
 
 
  Feroz Shah Kotla, Delhi 
 
 
  April 15, 2017
 
 
  20:00 IST
 
 
  A high of 41 during the afternoon, expected to be in the high-20s in the evening. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 With no update on Shreyas Iyer's state following a bout of chicken pox, his Mumbai Ranji Trophy captain Aditya Tare should get another chance to open despite making 0 in the last game. 
 
 
  1 Aditya Tare, 2 Sam Billings, 3 Sanju Samson, 4 Karun Nair, 5 Rishabh Pant (wk), 6 Corey Anderson, 7 Chris Morris, 8 Pat Cummins, 9 Amit Mishra, 10 Zaheer Khan (capt), 11 Shahbaz Nadeem
 
 
 
 
 Mohit Sharma's three overs went for 30 runs against KKR, so T Natarajan or Anureet Singh may take his place. 
 
 
  1 Hashim Amla, 2 Manan Vohra, 3 Wriddhiman Saha (wk), 4   (capt), 5 David Miller, 6 Marcus Stoinis, 7 Axar Patel, 8 Mohit Sharma/Anureet Singh/T Natarajan, 9 Varun Aaron, 10 Sandeep Sharma, 11 Ishant Sharma
 
 
 
 
 - Delhi's Shahbaz Nadeem has the lowest economy rate of IPL 2017 - 4.50. 
 
 - Delhi's Chris Morris has a batting strike-rate of 300 this season, the highest. 
 
 - Glenn Maxwell has hit nine sixes in IPL 2017. 
 
 Head to head record: KXIP 10-DD 8
 
 
 
 
 "We are a young side and we need to show that on the field, the energy needs to be visible. I try to push them a bit, but I think it comes naturally to them. A win changes the atmosphere. It creates self-belief, and from that point of view, this is important." 
 
 
 "They [KKR] got away from us and that opening partnership basically took the wind out of us. One poor over where we lost three wickets, then we lost our way. We will have to regroup for Delhi." 
 
 
