Designer   will unveil her refreshing collection ‘Coral 101’ at the  . This surreal collection will be opened on February 5, at the LFW.
‘Coral 101’ verbalises the assortment of movements and depths of the deep seas that enunciate the fierce yet sensual attribute of the imagination. Inspired by the essence of the white corals and beautiful and magnificent seas, the designer has put forth a collection that captivates and celebrates the scintillating life beneath the elusive waters.
 
 Embodying the fluidity of the seas and the rigidness of the corals, this collection emphasizes on subtle sensuality with a blend of easy flowing fabrics like georgettes and chiffons, coupled with brazen embellishments in the form of corals. The amalgamation of beads and mother of pearls on gorgeous nudes create an alluring sense of mystery.
 
 Nagpur based Abha Choudhary says, “I am excited to present my collection on Day 5 at The  , this summer. This Resort wear 2017 collection reinforces the label’s approach to design with silhouettes that express freedom, amalgamating summery lines and drapes apt for a sojourned state of mind.”
 
 Her clothes are an expression of gloriously rich Indian aesthetics translated on fabrics. The label has created a unique style of its own reflecting the traditional Indian craftsmanship juxtaposed against fabrics in a contemporary vocabulary. Each ensemble is made keeping in mind the growingly stylish urban Indian women. From bespoke wedding-wear to functional fashion, the label indulges in creating distinctive pieces incorporating varied colors, fabric manipulation, embroidery, etc.
 
 Abha has made a mark on the industry by showcasing her talents at esteemed Fashion Weeks across the country and around the world. Her attention to detail and intricacy teamed with a distinct sense of design has helped her create a niche of her own today.
 
 Her latest collections that were showcased at Bangalore Fashion Week and India Fashion Week London, namely, Aura and Suhaag respectively, gained a lot of appreciation and opened newer avenues in the fashion realm.
  
  
 
 
