MUMBAI: In a significant order observing that schools are supposed to act and behave like parents with students, the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has ordered a school in Meerut, UP to pay a   of Rs 10 lakh to the parents of 16-year-old student who had died after suffering an asthma attack while appearing for an examination in 2003. 

 Calling it gross negligence, the panel on Friday said, “The carelessness and apathy shown by the school officials leaves no doubt about their   in taking care of the minor child and providing even the basic aid and assistance which every school is expected to provide to its students who are in distress. In fact, the school officials are expected to act and behave like the parents of the child in such an emergency.”
 
 The commission said that valuable time was lost on account of school officials waiting for family members of the child to arrive along with their doctor. “Instead of waiting for the family members, they ought to have immediately taken him to the nearest doctor or the hospital. On reaching the hospital or the clinic they could have intimated the family members,” the commission said. It held that the fact that the child did not carry an inhaler despite being asthmatic would not absolve the school officials from the gross negligence displayed. The family claimed it was informed by one of the students of the school.
 
 An appeal was filed before the commission by the child’s father   last year. Goyal was aggrieved after the state commission lowered the district forum compensation of Rs 10 lakh to 5 lakh. 
 
 Goyal told the commission that from the academic year 1998-99 his son Rishab, had taken admission to the school. 
 
 The school he said, was attached to a local hospital and the principal was informed about Rishab’s condition and his need for special care. On March 21, 2003, Rishab suffered the attack and was allegedly taken to the residence of the principal who expressed his inability to help him as no medical facility was available in the school. Goyal said that one of the students’s informed the family about his condition. Rishab’s sister rushed to the school and took him to the hospital where he was declared dead.
 
 The school denied the allegations and said that Rishab’s sister had arrived at the school with a homeopathic doctor, who after seeing the child advised shifting him to the care an allopathic doctor. The school alleged that she reluctantly, took Rishab to his treating doctor in whose care he died. The school management denied any negligence on their part. They also objected that a student cannot be said to be a consumer as defined in the Consumer Protection Act and therefore a consumer complaint was not maintainable.
 
 Refuting the arguments, the commission however pointed out that besides the fees, the school was also charging an additional annual amount of Rs 850. “The annual charges would constitute the consideration which the opposite parties were receiving from the students, in addition to the charges being recovered under the nomenclature ‘school fee’. In fact, even the school fee would be sufficient consideration for providing the basic aid and assistance which a student in distress can expect from his educational institution,” the commission said.
 
