CHENNAI:   minister's claim of cancer-causing agents in   from private dairies may have triggered panic, but a Food Safety and Standards Authority of India survey in the state shows dilution with   is affecting the quality of milk more than chemical contamination.

 Under the Union government’s mandatory National Milk Quality Survey, 106 samples were lifted from seven districts in the state in November 2016. While 22 were labelled sub-standard as they were adulterated with water, two of the samples were found to be contaminated with   powder. 
 
 The samples were collected from farmers who supply milk to Aavin and private companies, retail outlets and those who sell the commodity directly to the public. Food safety officers picked up the samples from Chennai, Coimbatore, Salem, Tirunelveli, Trichy, Krishnagiri and Madurai. They were tested at six government labs approved by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India.
 
 A senior official who was part of the survey said in both instances of contamination, the source seemed to be containers that weren’t washed properly. “But detergents are known to increase the fat value of milk and mask adulteration with water. It could have been introduced deliberately too,” said the official. Detergents can damage the intestinal tract and the digestive system.
 
 Tamil Nadu ranks eighth in the country in milk production. In 2012-13 the production stood at around 1.82 crore litres per day.
 
 The National Milk Quality Survey, initiated in September last year, is being carried out in more than 120 cities across India. The programme was launched by FSSAI -- the country’s apex food regulator -- following a series of reports questioning the quality of milk, which was later taken up by the   and a parliamentary committee. As part of the survey, food safety officials have been asked to look for 13 common adulterants, including vegetable oil, detergent, hydrogen peroxide, formalin, sugar, glucose, urea, starch and boric acid – all used to raise fat value and improve shelf life of milk.
 
