Launched in September 2012, Times Celebex is a monthly rating index based on several measurable parameters, including the stars’ Box-Office performance, their ability to stay in the news across print, TV and online, their brand endorsements, and their popularity among fans on the Internet and social media. These are taken cumulatively to assign the actors a final rank called the ‘T Score’. Times Celebex is a scientific and robust ranking system based on data collected from 60+ publications and 250+ TV channels, making it the first ever ranking system for Bollywood. We have put together the stars’ ranking for the month of June 2017.

  and   top Times Celebex powered by zoom for the month of June 2017
 
 Salman Khan has topped the list for the publicity brouhaha and reactions to his performance in his home production 'Tubelight' directed by  . 
 
 
  Rajput leaps from 33rd rank to 5th rank-His next projects like 'Kedarnath' made news. 
 Riteish Deshmukh leaps from 19th rank to 6th rank-His Marathi ventures kept him in the news. 
  leaps from 22nd rank to 10th rank-His fans followed him while he toured Europe. 
 
  
  
 Dhanush leaps from the 40th rank to the15th rank-His first international project became a 
 talking point. 
 Sidharth Malhotra leaps from 31st rank to 18th rank-His upcoming films like 'Aiyyary' made news. 
 Emraan Hashmi leaps from 41st rank to 28th rank-His 'Baadshaho' promos got the thumbs up. 
 
  
  
 Priyanka Chopra topped the list for making consecutive announcements about her forthcoming Hollywood outings and what she could be doing in Bollywood.
 
  
  
 
 
 
  leaps from 20th rank to 2nd rank-Her turn in 'Raabta' was talking point. 
  Bachchan leaps from 42nd rank to 35th rank-Her endorsements kept her in the news. 
 Ileana D’Cruz leaps from 25th rank to 16th rank-Promos of 'Mubarakan' and 'Baadshaho' were applauded.
 
  
  
 Bhumi Pednekar leaps from 44th rank to 38th rank-Her choice of films kept her in the headlines. 
 Taapsee Pannu leaps from 48th rank to 26th rank-Her turn in 'Judwaa 2' made news. 
  leaps from 13th rank to 6th rank-Her forthcoming projects became a talking point. 
 
 
  He flagged off promotions for 'Jab Harry Met Sejal'. His Eid bash too was talk of the town. 
 
 
  He continues to impress the audience with his choice of films. He started shooting for the real-life-inspired 'Gold' in London. 
 
 
 His pirate drama, 'Thugs Of Hindostan', went on floors. He also announced his comeback as the host of 'Kaun Banega Crorepati'. 
 
 
 : He was in the news for his film 'Raabta'' and his chemistry with his leading lady and rumoured girlfriend Kriti Sanon. 
 
 
  He kept himself in the headlines with his endorsements and production work. 
 
 
  He was in the headlines for the nepotism debate and his upcoming projects as a producer. 
 
 
 There was buzz around him for reportedly giving the nod to Vikas Bahl’s 'Super 30'. 
 
 
  His look in his pirate drama, 'Thugs Of Hindostan', made headlines. 
 
 
  He was in the news for his solo trip to Europe to watch football and his turn as a ruthless emperor in the period drama 'Padmavati'. 
 
 
  'Raabta', her film opposite her rumoured beau Sushant Singh Rajput, kept her in the news. 
 
 
 She gave the nod to Meghna Gulzar’s gritty film 'Raazi' which made headlines. 
 
 
 Her love life and her upcoming film with her father Kamal Haasan kept her in the news.
 
 
  She made headlines for endorsements, her turn as a queen in 'Padmavati' and the announcement of her next Hollywood film. 
 
 
 The first look of the actress from her forthcoming film 'Pari', her impending projects with Shah Rukh Khan and Ranbir Kapoor kept her in the headlines. 
 
 
  The first look of her character Haseena from the biopic on 'Haseena Parkar' got her appreciation. 
 
 
  There was buzz around her love life with Anand Ahuja and her forthcoming film with Akshay Kumar titled 'Padman'.
 
 
 Her split with her manager and rumoured beau Bunty Walia made news alongside her film with Sidharth Malhotra titled 'Ittefaq'. 
 
 
 The actress’ forthcoming films, 'Drive', 'Judwaa 2' and 'A Gentleman', made news. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
