NEW DELHI: Giving a new lease of life to many cricket officials facing stringent disqualification norms under   reforms, the   clarified on Friday that nine-year cumulative tenure in a state association would not debar one from nine more years of second innings in   and vice versa.

 The SC in its first judgment in July last year had accepted Lodha Committee's recommendations to debar any person from cricket management if he/she had cumulatively served nine years in state association or BCCI or together. However, the SC in January this year had removed the cumulative clause.
 
 This had led to   ( ), led by  , to send communications to state associations telling them that they did not remove all those members who had served total of nine years in either place ­ state association or BCCI, there would be no further release of funds to them.
 
 A bench of Justices  ,   and   said: “Certain communications have been shown to us, but as we understand the real concern is the question that relates to disqualification. To us, the direction and order passed by this court was absolutely clear and if we permit ourselves to say so, it was clear as a cloudless sky .“
 
 Referring to its order of Ja nuary 20, the bench said: “What has been meant by the clarificatory order is that if an office-bearer has completed nine years in any post in the BCCI, he shall stand disqualified to become an office-bearer of BCCI. Similarly , if a person holds the post of office bearer in any capacity for any state association for nine years, he shall stand disqualified for contesting or holding any post or office of the state association. To avoid any kind of maze, we proceed to state by giving an example. If a person has held the post of office-bearer in respect of a state association for a period of nine years, he will not be disqualified to contest for the post of officebearer of BCCI.“
 
 This order will reinstate C K Khanna as acting president, Anirudh Chaudhary as treasurer and Amitabh Choudhary as the board's joint secretary. Appearing for Himachal Pradesh State Cricket Association, additional solicitor general Tushar Mehta accused the CoA of BCCI of not honouring its contract with the state associations to pay the owner of the venue for a Test match Rs 2.5 crore. He said the state association was yet to receive money for conducting the India-Australia Test match at Dharamshala.
 
 “Another aspect that has been highlighted before this court is with regard to the holding of matches of Indian Premier League (IPL). We have been apprised that the matches are going to commence from April 5 at 10 venues. There have to be tripartite contracts (between franchise, state association and BCCI) and some have been entered into while some shall be entered into in due course. After the contracts are executed, following the principle of parity , the BCCI shall also honour the contractual terms,“it said.
 
 
