

 
 
 
 I'm not against journalists but I am against these short bits of news that are clogging our brain and not doing anything to improve our understanding of the world. A plane crashed in Mozambique, a bomb exploded in Syria. I don't need to know that. What I need to know is what the war in Syria is all about. Long articles, books and opinion pieces do the job. News is as bad as sugar for our system. It gives you a distorted risk map of the world. If you go by headlines, terrorism is way more prevalent than say, antibiotic resistance. Nobody wants to read about the less flashy things; they're not scary, and you can't show shocking pictures.
 
 
 
 
 I've avoided newspapers for about six-seven years. I did break it for the US elections. I'd really hoped Hillary would win. In hindsight, I shouldn't have wasted my time because I can't change it anyway. But now I'm clean again.
 
 
 
 
 I was one of the first guys in   to go on Twitter. But now I am off it. It doesn't help me make better decisions for my life, and it is stressful. Social media is entertaining but if it's entertainment I want, I prefer a book or movie.
 
 
 
 If you have a financial decision to make, don't go by the skin of your pants or listen to your gut. Be as rational as you can because your first instinct is usually wrong. If you know the thinking traps, then you can better avoid them.
 
 There are certain environments where you can go by your feelings say, in choosing your partner. But when it comes to complex financial decisions, geopolitics, internet, etc, don't go by your gut.You might get lucky but it's better not to go with your gut.
 
 
 
 Yes, and it has helped me tremendously, as an entrepreneur who has built a company and I am now an investor myself. But you will not be able to get rid of all these thinking errors. These are so hardwired in our brain that they're hard to get rid of. And I'm happy if I can improve the quality of my decisions by 5 or 10%.
 
 
 
 
 The books have sold extremely well in Germany. I don't know why. I think people are fed up with the other genre of self-help books ­ look deep inside of you, the truth is inside of you. My message is contrary to that and it's fresh and practical.
 
 
 
 Yes, it's not. How-tos are like playing the lottery. Some tips will work for you, others won't. My book is based on research and psychology.
 
 
 
 
 This book is mainly for business and financial decisions. I'd like to show how to apply these to life decisions. The sunk cost fallacy, for example. Say, you've taken a course and you realise early on that it's wrong for you but you stick on. We tend to stick with the wrong decisions because you've invested time and money. If you have to quit, the sooner the better.
 
 
 
 
 Men are completely outlandish when it comes to estimating their skills or knowledge. We don't know as much as we think we know. It's one of the reasons we make unrealistic resolutions. How often does it happen that you do everything on your to-do list? Yet we don't learn from it. When it comes to social proof ­ a phenomenon where people copy the behaviour of others ­ women tend to be swept away .
 
 However, in most of the traps, men and women are equally bad.
 
