LUDHIANA: Miffed over   of their daughter, a family of Rajesh Colony, Badi Haibowal, assaulted parents of the groom, who also lived in the same locality.

 Ajay Kumar, 24, who works with a dairy company, was in a relationship with Vishakha, 21, who lived in the same lane as his, for the past five years. Families of both had an argument when they came to know about the relationship.
 
 Ajay’s mother   said, “We supported our son, but Vishakha’s family was against the relationship. On February 7, both Ajay and Vishakha left home after which her parents fought with us and issued us life threats. On February 9, Ajay called us up to tell that they had tied the knot in a gurdwara and have reached the court for marriage. We also went there to meet them. However, we did not return home as Vishakha’s family was miffed and we were scared of them. The same day my father-in-law passed away and we had to return at night. That day too, they fought with us, but later neighbours pacified them.”
 
 Naresh Kumar, Ajay’s father, said they were getting threats from Vishakha’s family, so they again left their house and started living in a rented accommodation. In his complaint to the police, Naresh said on Monday, he and his wife came home to get some clothes. The accused, who were keeping an eye on their movement, turned up and thrashed them with sticks and bricks. They did not allow them to go back to their home. But when people gathered on hearing their screams, the accused fled.
 
 Inquiry officer ASI Gurpreet Singh of division number four police station said a case has been registered under sections 341 (wrongful restraint), 506 (criminal intimidation), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon) and 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of the IPC against 12 people, including six women.
 
 The accused have been identified as Lalit Kumar, father of the woman, his brothers -- Matty and Babbal -- his relatives, Sapna, Geeta, Sukhi, Poonam, Bani, Gattu, Vijay Sabharwal, Beant Kaur and Guddi.
 
 The police have launched a manhunt for the accused.
 
 This is the second such incident in three days. On Saturday, newly-wed Pankaj Kumar of Adarsh Colony was attacked with sharp-edged weapons outside court complex by his in-laws for marrying against their wishes.
 
 ‘Wife’ thrashed man who was remarrying
 
 On March 4, high drama was witnessed during a marriage function at a restaurant on Sat Pal Mittal Road, also known as  , after a woman, claiming to be the wife of the groom, created ruckus. The woman, Rakhi thrashed the groom, Vishal Kumar, 42, outside the marriage venue. She alleged that her husband was marrying a woman 18 years younger to him without divorcing her. Sarabha Nagar police had booked the husband.
 
