NASHIK: Hopes are running high among city-based students of Savitribai Phule Pune University ( ) after outgoing vice-chancellor   announced that the works for the   here will gain pace after August 31.

 The assurance by Gade and some of the provisions in the newly passed University Act have raised the hopes for this issue which has been pending for the last seven years. 
 
 “SPPU has over 900 colleges under its jurisdiction. So, having strong sub-centres is needed to properly conduct the university’s work,” said student leader  , who has been raising the issue of giving more facilities and powers to the sub-centre since 2013. 
 
 Another students leader, Ajinkya Gite said, “The current sub-centre has limited administrative powers. We have to contact the office of the vice-chancellor each and every time we raise a students issue at the centre. Whenever we approach with an issue to this office, we are either asked to visit the University’s Pune office or speak to the vice-chancellor over the phone.”
 
 Currently, the sub-centre is functioning in   at Canada Corner on a rented premises. The state government had allotted 62.5 acres of land in 2012 but the varsity could take over barely 40 acre of it as the other 12.5 acre was captured by encroachers.
 
 The university authorities struggled to get the encroachments removed and took over the entire land in 2016. The university has planned a state-of-art administrative building, student facilitation centre, department offices and lecture halls in the proposed sub-centre. 
 
 “The new University Act has come as a blessing for the Nashik sub-centre. The act gives pro-vice-chancellor status to the in-charge of the sub-centre. The in-change will have more administrative and decision making powers. So, the work will be complete within the given deadline of 3 years,” said Gade.
 
 Speaking of the facilities to be made available at the sub-centre, BUCD president, V B Gaikwad said, “Currently, the students have to contact the headquarters directly to obtain certificates or admission related queries. To avoid this, the sub-centre will have a full-fledged ‘student facility centre’ where full-time officials will be appointed”
 
