NEW DELHI:   fought valiantly taking the contest against   to the Super Over in defence of 153, but two-time IPL champions, MI, held their nerves well to register a hard fought win in Match 35 of the Indian Premier League season 10 at Rajkot on Saturday and consolidated their second position in the points tally. Jasprit Bumrah was the star of the Super Over, containing big-hitters Aaron Finch and Brendon McCullum, giving away just six runs after MI had scored 11/2. 

 Earlier in the night, chasing a target of 154, MI seemed to be on course for an easy win with Parthiv Patel scoring 70 off 44 balls, but Gujarat’s fightback led by James Faulkner (4-0-34-2) meant MI had to sweat it out in the middle longer for two points. 
 
 We break down the match in five: 
 
 
 
 
 The decision to bat first after winning the toss by Gujarat Lions was a surprise but Ishan Kishan, opening the innings with Brendon McCullum, had a clear brief - get quick runs. McCullum failed to provide the fireworks up the order as he was cleaned up by Lasith Malinga. But Kishan, continuing his good form with the bat from the previous game, took on the bowlers. He hit Mitchell McClenaghan for a four in the first over and then took on Malinga with a six over midwicket. He then dug into McClenaghan in the next over with two fours and a six and then greeted Harbhajan Singh with two boundaries. By the fourth over, Gujarat Lions had reached 46 for 1. 
 
 
 
 
 But despite the good start, Gujarat found themselves three down before the powerplay overs. Bumrah got rid of Gujarat skipper Suresh Raina for one when he chipped one to mid-on where Kieron Pollard took a good catch. In the next over, Malinga set up Finch with a string of slower delivery and then bowled another one, short this time, and Finch played one on to his stumps. Gujarat were on the back foot and even Kishan’s strokeplay was affected by the loss of wickets. Dinesh Karthik was undone by a wide delivery from Krunal Pandya and was stumped for two. Krunal bowled a tidy spell in tandem with Harbhajan to bring down the run-rate. Harbhajan was then rewarded with the wicket of Kishan when the former under-19 Indian skipper tried to break the shackles heaving a length ball towards long-on but Pollard took a good catch. Ravindra Jadeja too departed an over later when he mistimed one from Krunal and the skier was easily pouched by the bowler himself. Irfan Pathan added just two runs to the total before departing. Gujarat were tottering at 101 for 7. 
 
 But when it looked like MI might restrict Gujarat to under 130, Faulkner and Andrew Tye put their heads down and combined for a 43-run stand in just 19 deliveries. Tye was the aggressor hitting two fours and two sixes. Basil Thampi finished off the innings with a straight six and took Gujarat to 153/9. 
 
 
 
 
 As has been the case with MI, Parthiv Patel timed the ball well early on and set the ball rolling for them. He hit Thampi for a beautiful square cut over the infield off the first delivery to earn a boundary. Jos Buttler got two leg side deliveries in the same over and helped himself to two fours. Patel then took two boundaries off Faulkner, following it up with two fours and a six off Pathan. By the third over MI had reached 40 for no loss. Buttler departed owing to good piece of work by Faulkner at point but Parthiv continued. Nitish Rana walked out to the middle and pummelled Raina for a six over midwicket. Parthiv then reached his fifty off just 32 balls. Rana departed for 19 off the bowling of Ankit Soni, but Parthiv took MI to 104 for two by the 13th over. The visitors needed 50 runs from 42 deliveries. 
 
 
 
 The 14th over bowled by Faulkner changed the complexion of the game somewhat as he removed Rohit Sharma, who edged one to wicketkeeper Karthik, off the first ball of the over. In the next, Faulkner induced an edge off Kieron Pollard that went wide of Karthik. Pollard then survived when Thampi dropped the big man at short midwicket. But off the next delivery, Faulkner got the big wicket of Parthiv, edging one to keeper, and he departed for 70 off 44 deliveries. Thampi and Faulkner bowled tidy overs next up giving away just 10 runs between them. Faulkner finished off his night with another amazing over giving way just five. Thampi then removed Hardik Pandya off the first ball of the 19th over and got rid off Harbhajan. Pathan then affected a fantastic run-out from the deep to remove McClenaghan and got the equation to 11 off 6. Pathan was given the last over and Krunal tonked him for a straight six off the first ball. But the all-rounder conceded just four more runs in the next five. Ravindra Jadeja first hit the woodwork to remove Bumrah and with one needed off one, he again hit the bullseye off the last delivery and Malinga was short of his crease. MI ended with 153 all out. 
 
 
 
 
 After MI managed 11 for 2 in the super over courtesy Pollard’s four and a six, Bumrah showed why he is regarded as one of the best when it comes to death overs as he gave away just six runs from his one over. Bumrah started with a good yorker but that was a no-ball. Finch failed to connect with the ramp and could only add one run. A wide followed and then a brilliant slower one foxed McCullum. With 9 off 4 needed, another slower one foxed McCullum again but the Gujarat duo managed to steal a single after a fumble from Parthiv. Bumrah beat Finch again off the fourth delivery. With 8 off 2 needed, Finch took a single. With 7 needed off 1, McCullum could only get one run as MI beat GL in Super Over. GL ended with 6/0 in reply to MI's 11/2 
 
 
