PANAJI: Chief minister Manohar  , during a review visit to various departments located in the capital city on Thursday, assured that the   control room (PCR) would be upgraded and that more police patrol vehicles would be provided.

 Among the departments visited were the   Regional Registration Office ( ), Goa Handicrafts Rural and Small Scale Industries Development Corporation Limited (GHRSSIDC) and the department of textile, handicraft and coir. He also visited the Junta House. 
 
 During his visit to the police station, barracks, control room and headquarters, Parrikar was briefed about the department’s immediate requirements, which included a long-pending demand that the police control room (PCR) be upgraded from analogue to digital. At present, the department has 60 PCR vehicles and 10 highway patrol vehicles, which the CM promised to increase. He further directed the police department to submit a proposal suggesting ways to improve infrastructure at the police headquarters and station.
 
 Noticing the queue outside the FRRO, Parrikar said he would immediately organize for seating arrangements to alleviate inconveniences caused to visitors. 
 
 Upon visiting the GHRSSIDC office in Neugi Nagar, the chief minister perused the attendance register only to find that some employees had arrived late, and proceeded to ask them for reasons for their tardiness.
 
 At the department of handicrafts, textile and coir, where training is also imparted, Parrikar was in for a surprise. There were no students present. The CM then directed department officials to submit a proposal on ways to upgrade the centre under the Skill India initiative.
 
 Junta House was also part of the itinerary. Here, the PWD was directed to shift their office to facilitate the registrar’s office to move into the premises allotted to it around two years ago. 
 
 Noticing the queue outside the FRRO, the chief minister said he would immediately organize for seating arrangements to alleviate inconveniences caused to visitors
 
