The happiness of the Bengalis residing in namma Chennai has doubled this festive season as, for the first time, they are watching their regional cinema in the city.

 Bhaskar Mukherjee is a banking professional who moved in to Chennai six years ago, and in all these years, he says he has never come across any cinema theatre here screening a   movie. He is thrilled to watch  , starring Bengali superstar Prosenjit Chatterjee and rising star Aryann Bhowmik, on the first day of the show.
 
 “It was a great feeling to be able to watch a Bengali movie away from home, and in Chennai. The only thing missing was the celebratory atmosphere. Back home, if any Bangla cinema is released, it will be houseful on the first day of the show, but it wasn’t the case here. I hope more people come with their families to watch the latest releases. However, it is a very good initiative by the   film industry to have come forward to distribute their film in different regions for the Bengalis, who do not get the opportunity to watch Bengali releases on screen. I hope more cinema theatres in Chennai screen Bengali movies in the coming days,” smiles Bhaskar. 
 
 Apparently, this is the first Bengali film that the multiplex is screening and in the past, no other cinema theatre in Chennai has screened these films continuously for two weeks. “In the past, we had tried to screen Bengali cinema, but there were various obstacles. Either we wouldn’t get the content on time or the support system wouldn’t be well enough. I guess right things happen at the right time and this movie has released at the perfect time — Durga Puja. We will continue to bring Bengali movies hereafter as we had a good turnout of people on the first day of the show, with more than 75 tickets sold out online. On weekends, we are running houseful shows,” says K Meenakshisundaram, vice president of the multiplex.
 
 Rimpa Saha, a business analyst, came to Chennai almost seven years ago and says she is happy that she was able to watch Projapoti Biskut in the city now. “We really don’t get to see Bengali movies in Chennai. We had once watched a Bengali movie screened by the Bengali community in IIT. It’s really a great feeling that I watched two Bengali movies back-to-back for the first time in this city. It will be a really good opportunity for the Bengali community in Chennai if they continue to screen more Bengali movies. Nowadays, good Bengali movies get released in New Delhi, Bengaluru and Mumbai. So why not in Chennai? I think movie producers need to work on good promotion to attract Bengalis residing outside Bengal, especially when the number is significantly high. And almost every alternate year, a Bengali movie wins the National Award. So, if the films can be distributed properly, the large population outside Bengal will also be able to catch the releases.”
 
 Interestingly, one of the films, Yeti Obhijaan, is being screened with subtitles. “We are still trying to get subtitle for Projapoti Biskut,” says Meenakshisundaram, who further says that screening cinema from other region is not entirely a risky business as there are always takers here, though the collections cannot be compared with Tamil cinema. “We have been screening Marathi films for the past three months now and they are getting a good response. Chennai is a metropolitan city and we have multilingual population now,” he adds.
 
 IT professional  , who has been a resident of Chennai for almost five years now, says, “It feels amazing to watch Bengali movies during Durga Puja. I hope more theatres start screening Bengali films in the city soon.”
 
 
