NEW DELHI: With leader of opposition Vijender Gupta resorting to shayari to criticise the government’s budget, finance minister Manish Sisodia could not be left behind. He ended his rebuttal to Gupta with a couplet dedicated to CM Arvind Kejriwal which said, “Jane kiski duaon ka Faiz hai asar, main doobta hoon aur dariya uchal deta hai.”

 Sisodia, who said that other than the compulsory criticism by the opposition, the budget had been praised by finance ministers of several other states. He said that BJP had used “convenient calculations” to misrepresent the budget. “Even Union finance minister Arun Jaitley has said that there is confusion due to the planned and non-planned heads in budgets. The outcome budget will focus on target achievements and the AAP government has changed the definition of development. You count construction of kabristan and shamshan as development while we count people as development.”
 
 He countered Gupta’s allegation that Delhi’s financial deficit was a cause for worry, saying that the capital’s fiscal deficit was a mere 0.8% against the Centre’s deficit of 3.24% and an average of about 2% for most other states.
 
 Sisodia clarified that there is a difference between the budget speech and the actual budget, saying that works that the opposition had claimed were not part of the government’s agenda, like Wi-Fi and mohalla sabhas, had all been allocated funds.
 
 “Nothing has disappeared from the budget. We have made allocations for CCTVs, LEDs, street lights, unauthorised colonies etc. Again, contrary to data put out by the opposition, I will clarify that against the Rs 9,000crore that Gupta mentioned in his speech, we have allocated Rs 11,300crore on education this year. In health, the total budget is Rs 5,735crore and not Rs 5,033crore. You have compared only Delhi’s allocation on SC/ST with that of social security budgets of other states. Our social security budget is 7% of the total expenditure,” he said.
 
 The finance minister said that all with addition of rooms to schools, the government was taking steps to improve the quality of education and that Gupta would see that if only he “read the budget document carefully”.
 
 
