CHENNAI: By appointing a professor accomplished in economics as vice-chancellor of University of Madras at a time when the institution is facing a financial crunch, governor-chancellor C   Rao has sent out the right signals, say observers. All sections of professors in the varsity said P Duraisamy, a former head of the econometrics department, was the best choice among the three names shortlisted. The other two were former vice-chancellor   and S Sachithanantham, a retired biochemistry professor.

 Sixty-three-year-old Duraisamy took charge three hours after he got the order from Rao. A postdoctoral fellow at  , Duraisamy has a doctorate in economic science from Paris University. 
 
 He has served on many national level committees of UGC, NAAC, MHRD and Planning Commission.
 
 Duraisamy specialises in econometrics and labour market, and has published several papers on development economics and social sector like public health and education, some of them with his wife D Malathy, a professor of economics at IIT-Madras. He had led the NAAC accreditation team that visited the University of Madras during previous VC R Thandavan’s tenure, an associate said.
 
 Duraisamy has his task cut out as the university is in an academic and administrative mess, say professors. He has to usher in widespread reforms in the examination department, improve the quality of research and infuse new life into the Institute of Distance Education, apart from increasing the enrolment of students. Many files, including the procurement of costly laboratory equipment, are gathering dust. 
 
 The university senate presented a Rs 58 crore deficit budget for 2017-18 in March. After the retirement of many senior professors this year, 63% of the faculty posts are vacant. Crucial positions like registrar and controller of examinations have to be filled as the heads of psychology and criminology departments have taken dual charge of these important administrative posts. “Many top positions need the right person,” a senior professor said.
 
 IDE, which filled the varsity’s treasury, also needs a full-time head with a vision as around 30 centres outside Tamil Nadu and those within Chennai Metropolitan Area (CMA) have been closed. The Tamil Nadu government has taken a decision to comply with the UGC’s norms which put an embargo on institutions offering distance education courses outside their jurisdiction.
 
