JALANDHAR: The   in Jalandhar on Thursday was ordered by the son of businessman in whose house the killings took place. Police officials cracked the case within 24 hours and on Friday arrested  , son of fabrication  , on charges of having his mother, wife and a friend of the family murdered with the help of  .

 In their initial investigation, cops have attributed the murders to Amarinder's affair with his former employee Tejinder Kaur Ruby. The family had objected to their relationship. Ruby too has been arrested for allegedly conspiring in the murders. 
 
 Police officials said Amarinder had allegedly hired the killers to murder his wife but the assailants shot and killed his mother and friend Khushwinder Kaur Neetu as well as they were witnesses to the crime.
 
 Jalandhar police commissioner Arpit Shukla said Amarinder and Ruby fell in love when she and her husband started working at the fabrication factory. However Amaninder's family and Ruby's husband Sukhjit found out about the affair after which the couple left the factory.
 
 Again Amarinder's mother Daljit Kaur and wife Paramjit Kaur protested after which they got Ruby shifted to her parents' home in Jamsher village.
 
 Shukla said that Amaninder had considered divorcing Paramjit but his in-laws refused to end the marriage. Tired of the hurdles, Amarinder and Ruby conspired to kill Paramjit.
 
 Amaninder then contacted his former employee Vipan Kumar. Vipin engaged his friend Amritpal Singh of Chabbewal and the two agreed to the contract killing for Rs 8 lakh with Rs 1,04,000 as advance. The killers then recced the house on February 21. "Vipin and Amritpal visited the house on the pretext of replacing CCTV cameras but they removed the cameras and took keys of the back door of the house," Shukla said.
 
 "The plan was to ensure that Amarinder take away his kids from the house when the killers arrive," Shukla. "Amarinder had also assured the killers that his mother would not be at home on Thursday evening between 4 pm and 5 pm. But when the contract killers reached the house at around 4.30 pm they found the mother as well as Neetu there and killed them both along with Paramjit. They then called up Amaninder to say that the task had been accomplished. It was only after reaching home that Amarinder found out that his mother and Neetu too had also been killed."
 
