In a first of its kind operation at Daman, the Enforcement Directorate raided the illegal warehouse of liquor mafia Ramesh Patel alias Michael and recovered liquor worth over Rs 2.5 crore. ED also raided Michael’s properties in Mumbai. However, Patel gave the ED a slip. Efforts are on to trace him, the agency said. Michael is allegedly the biggest supplier of illegal liquor in Gujarat and had been on the   scanner for a long time.

 According to the police, there are more than 30 cases registered against him under the  . The investigation into the liquor baron revealed that generally a trailer truck with a shipping container loaded on it was used to smuggle IMFL. The trucks would use invoices of genuine manufacturing entities to camouflage the smuggling of the contraband through Daman checkpost as legal goods. According to sources, the raid became possible die to the political appointment to the post of administrator at the union territories of Daman and Diu.
 
 “Former state home minister   has been handed the charge of the Union territory since August 2016. After his appointment, it was expected that there would be a crackdown on the liquor mafia,” sources said. Police sources said that Michael is the main supplier of the IMFL, who owns and operates wine shops in Daman, from where the said IMFL is smuggled in bulk quantity into Gujarat through local bootleggers. He used his establishments Sai Wine Shop, Sai Enterprise,  ,  , to launder the money he got from smuggling IMFL.
 
 The ED has also seized three imported cars worth more than Rs 2 crore, which is suspected to have been diverted illegally to Gujarat. The police said that in the past, strong intervention from political leaders and bad coordination with local law enforcement made it tough to nail the liquor mafia. 
 
 Surat Range IG Shamsher Singh “It is true that after appointment of Praful Patel as administrator, the co-ordination with Daman police is better,” said Shamsher Singh. He added, “We went into details of Michael’s illegal trade and reported it to ED. On the basis of our reports, the ED took action,” said Shamsher Singh, IGP, Surat Range. The ED has initiated money-laundering investigations under Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (PMLA) against Michael, his wife Bhanuben Patel and others.
 
