DEHRADUN: Chief minister   on Wednesday morning shifted to the Uttarakhand CM’s official bungalow at New Cantt Road in Dehradun.

 The building has for long carried a tag of being jinxed due to the belief in political circles that the CM who stays there will not be able to complete his full term. The previous CM,  , had preferred to use the state government’s official guest house, lending further credence to the rumours.
 
 Refusing to be spooked,   had indicated soon after taking over as CM that he would be using the official residence. Nevertheless, he decided to make the shift on the second day of the Navratra season, considered auspicious for new beginnings, after conducting a two-hour-long puja along with his wife and two daughters. Many of his cabinet ministers like Satpal Maharaj, Harak Singh Rawat, Prakash Pant, Yashpal Arya and Madan Kaushik as well as state BJP chief Ajay Bhatt were in attendance.
 
 A close aide of Rawat told TOI on Wednesday that there was “no vastu dosh in the house and so experts were not needed.” He said the rituals conducted were that of a “usual griha pravesh ceremony.”
 
 He said the CM wanted “to keep things simple and so no expensive furniture would be kept in the house.” “The family use only five of the 60 rooms in the house. The CM has also asked that the swimming pool be closed since operating it will mean wastage of water at a time when the state is grappling with water shortage,” he said.
 
 The CM’s official bungalow, designed in the traditional pahari style, was built in 2010 at an estimated cost of Rs 16 crore and is spread over an area of 10 acres. It had no occupant for over three years because of its ‘jinxed’ tag.
 
 The CMs who have stayed here –– Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, Maj General (retd) BC Khanduri and Vijay Bahuguna –– could not complete their full terms.
 
 Asked about the house’s unsavoury reputation, ex-CM Bahuguna said it was “idle talk.” “Harish Rawat stayed away from the house but he lost polls from two seats. This is just idle talk circulated by rumour-mongers.”
 
 
