Rohtak: With Jat community members associated with Yashpal Malik, convener of the All India Jat Aarakshan Sangrash Samiti (AIJASS), refusing to relent on the dharna call from Sunday, Haryana police, accompanied by paramilitary forces, conducted a flag march in Rohtak city and surrounding villages on Saturday. They will hold a dharna at Jassia village of the district. Naresh Balhara, spokesperson of khap mahapanchayat, told mediapersons that tents were being pitched at the designated spots and dharna would commence at the scheduled time.

 Police and paramilitary forces also conducted a flag march in towns and sensitive places at Jind, Bhiwani, Jhajjar and Sonipat districts after the administration there imposed Section 144 of CrPC in the wake of the stir call. Meanwhile, the Jat Jagriti Sena continued their dharna at Sector 6 in Rohtak for the second day. Rohtak range inspector general of police (IGP) Navdeep Virk said adequate force was in place and paramilitary force had also reached in all districts to deal with the situation. 
 
 In Narwana town of Jind, a mahapanchayat was held under Binan khap for re-affirming their decision to start a dharna. Rangi Ram, former president of Dhamtana khap, warned the administration of not trying to scare the community by holding flag march ahead of the stir. “The government should not think of using power for suppressing the protesters or else they would be responsible for the consequences,” he warned. Pawanjit Banwala of sarvkhap mahapanchayat said the community was in a do-or-die mode to get their demand accepted.
 
 In Sonipat, deputy commissioner KM Pandurang warned the protesters against inflammatory speeches. Pandurang said that if such a thing happened, then the land on which the protest was being held would be confiscated. Meanwhile, a ban has been imposed on use on JCB machine at the dharna spot and spy cameras installed to keep a tab on developments near Gohana village.
 
 Bhiwani SDM Satpal Singh cautioned the youths to refrain from being present at the dharna site or else they would be debarred from getting a government job. “Even those who will stand witness during the stir will not be allowed to fill forms for getting government jobs,” the SDM said. He also directed petrol pump owners not to sell fuel in loose bottles. The administration has assured traders regarding any damage to their property.
 
 
