New Delhi: The   ( ) has decided to defer the launch of its housing scheme till February end or March. The scheme, which was initially scheduled to be launched by January end lacked basic infrastructure like approach roads, water supply, streetlights, etc.

 DDA also plans to resell 13,500 flats, which were returned by allottees of its 2014 housing scheme. “We have decided to announce the new housing scheme only after improving the basic infrastructure in our newly developed  . The engineering department has been directed to prepare a plan. Based on the time frame provided by them about the completion of work, we will plan the launch,” said a senior official.
 
 Sources said that the engineering department will take two to three months to complete work related to roads, streetlights etc. “By the time we complete the allotment process, the engineering department will be able to develop the area around the complexes and address all the problems related to essential services like water,” said an official.
 
 TOI had highlighted the problems faced by residents of DDA’s newly constructed housing complexes in its November 29, 2016 edition (‘On sale, these flats lack basic infra’). Close to 25,000 flats were put up for sale in the 2014 housing scheme of which 13,500 were returned. A majority of flats are located in Rohini and Narela.
 
 When TOI visited the areas, it found that there was no proper access road to the  . There were security issues, as streetlights were missing. Most of the shops in the housing complexes were closed. People also complained about irregular water supply and poor quality of construction.
 
 In six complexes in Rohini, water tankers were employed to fill the in-house tanks. In Narela, such tanks were kept outside the houses because repair work on water lines has been going on for over a year.
 
 In December, the land-owning agency had announced its plan to launch the housing scheme. To ensure that there were no large-scale rejections, DDA made some significant changes in its policy.
 
 First, the 11,000-odd LIG flats would be sold at the old rates (of 2014). Secondly, it did away with the five-year lock-in period — earlier, an allottee was not allowed to re-sell his/her property for five years. Thirdly, applicants were not allowed to get the registration money back in case they withdrew from the scheme after allotment of flats.
 
 But given the lack of infrastructure around the complexes, DDA has decided to first improve the basic facilities, so that the housing scheme gets a good response.
 
 
