BOKARO: Though meat shops have closed down almost everywhere in the state following government orders, it seems to have no impact on the   near the  .

 On visiting the rural areas, where mangso-bhat (meat-rice) is the traditional cuisine, one can find that the meat shops are still open.
 
 Mutton is being sold at the normal rate of Rs 420 per kilogram. For the meat seller here, no diktat can stop them from selling meat as every festival in the region, be it marriage or condolence ceremony requires a staple diet of ‘mangso-bhaat.’
 
 Residents of  , which touches the border of West Bengal’s   said ‘mangso-bhaat’ is a part of their culture and everyday life, they can’t stop eating it. The sale of meat in this area is also very high.
 
 “Majority of Hindus in this area also eat meat-rice. We never prefer chicken. Though the government has banned meat shops, we can’t stop eating it. At present, the meat shops are open but if at all they close, we will purchase it from the villages across the state border, situated in Purulia,” said Radhanath Mahatha, a resident of Barkama.
 
 Two mutton shops in Chandankyari market are still open. Ironically, these shops are situated on the main road, at about half a kilometer’s distance from the residence of the state revenue minister, Amar Bauri. The minister and other administrative officials regularly pass by the shops, but none of them object to it.
 
 The butcher said he is not selling the meat at a high rate. “We cannot do without ‘mangso-bhaat’ here in Chandankyari. As of now, I have received no direction to close the shop, so I am selling meat as usual and people are also purchasing it,” he added.
 
 But the meat shops in urban areas are closed and even the restaurants and hotels have removed it from the menu. For meat lovers in town, dhabas or meat shops in rural areas have become the place to go to.
 
 In Pindrajoda, another area touching the West Bengal border, people are purchasing meat from the shops in Purulia. Manoj Rajwar, a resident of   said, “Meat shops in Purulia district is close to our village, so we purchase it from there.”SDM of Chas was not available for comment. 
 
 
