Kolkata has witnessed two suicides by women in 48 hours. On Wednesday, Poulomi Rauth killed her nine-month-old son Prince and ended her life. Just two days later, Kalpana Bardhan set herself on fire. These two back-to-back suicides in the city -10 days after depressed model-turned-actress Bitasta Shalini Saha was found hanging at her residence - have again brought the spotlight on ways of dealing with   and if gender has any role to play in it.

 While Poulomi and Bitasta have exhibited signs of depression, Kalpana's kin insist she was apparently “fine" even on Thursday night. Dr Gautam Saha, who is the honorary general secretary of the Indian Psychiatric Society, said suicide cases can result from impulsive attempts. Sometimes, the victims leave behind a clue to express his or her mental trauma. Unfortunately, the family members don't pick up the clues and hence, can't save the victim. However, the most treacherous cases are those of “masked“ or “smiling depression“. Such victims put up a perfect picture of happiness while concealing their feelings of anxiety, despair, fear, anger, fatigue, irritability and hopelessness.
 
 As a result, their problems remain undetected.
 
 "They are very misleading because their relatives don't notice any problem. In fact, many such patients of   are very prone to committing suicide and can be more dangerous than the classic form of depression," Saha said. Those suffering from classic forms of depression might have suicidal thoughts but not the energy to act on them. However, those suffering from smiling depression can easily plan and end their lives. “Both genders are equally prone to this kind of depression," explained Saha, adding both men and women opt for similar methods (hanging and use of insecticides) of committing suicide though the former is more prone to using instruments like guns and knives.
 
 In the past two days, psychiatrist   has come across two cases of smiling depression. The first case was a well-known celebrity who is perpetually smiling. “She even smiled and spoke about her serious problems. The other case was of a girl who was also smiling away. But since she had depression, she was not able to do things girls of her age are expected to do. Her family members thought she was just lazy and criticized her.She was surprised when I told her that she was suffering from smiling depression," said Mukherjee.
 
 Gender, however, is an important factor while dealing with classic cases of depression. Studies suggest that women are twice more prone to depression than men. Most therapists in Kolkata point out the primary symptoms of classic cases of depression in men are more physical.
 
 
