LUCKNOW: Sharply rebutting the “baseless” charge of BJP chief   that the cost of the   highway was much higher than road   in   of the National Highway Authority of India, a top authority in the UP government said that the cost of the project was in fact far less compared to other similar work by the Centre.

 BJP’s attack on chief minister Akhilesh Yadav’s dream project was viewed in the government circles as “politically motivated” and with no substance.
 
 Addressing a public meeting of the BJP before the arrival of prime minister   at the Ramabai rally sthal on Monday, Shah blamed the UP government for exceeding cost of the Agra-Lucknow expressway that was inaugurated by chief minister  . The project has been completed by the UPEIDA. The BJP president said in his speech that a highway being constructed by the NHAI in Uttarakhand was much cheaper compared to the Agra expressway.
 
 Speaking to the TOI, the senior officer said describing Agra expressway to a mere widening of roads connecting all four pilgrimages in Uttarakhand was unreasonable. He added that a national highway is being widened from two lanes to four in Uttarakhand and this road will connect Gangotri, Yamunotri, Kedarnath And Badrinath. The 889km widening of road will cost Rs 12,000 crore. On the other hand, for the Agra expressway project, land was acquired as it is a Greenfield project. Secondly, more than 20 major bridges and 120 small bridges apart from dozens of ROBs have been constructed. The officer added that the Agra expressway is a six-lane project expandable to eight lanes.
 
 “Most importantly, the cost of construction of the project is around Rs 9,000 crore, while the acquisition cost of land, of which major share has gone to farmers was around Rs 5,000 crore, so per-km construction cost of Agra expressway is around Rs 46.50 crore,” said the officer. “Can Amit Shah justify this,” questioned the officer, adding that politics should not come into play in matters related to development of the state.
 
 
