GURUGRAM: Is the weekend   at the   deterring you from visiting Gurgaon’s dining hub? Worry not. Police have made entry into the market premises   from Saturday and believe this will ease entry for cars into the market. 

 Cars will be allowed to enter the market from only the Crowne Plaza side and exit from the Pind Balluchi and the Kindom of Dreams sides. 
 
 DCP (traffic) Balbir Singh on Friday met restaurant and store owners of the Sector 29 market to finalise the proposal.
 
 The area is often congested owing to roadside parking and passage of vehicles on both ways. According to the plan, vehicles will be allowed to enter the market only from the Crowne Plaza side, instead of the three entry points which currently exist. 
 
 Vehicles coming from the   and hotel Westin side, which currently enter the market in front of   restaurant (see map), will have to go around and enter from NEAR Crowne Plaza.
 
 Similarly, the exit points will be on the two other sides — via Swagath or via Pind Balluchi and Kingdom of Dreams. The proposal was finalised after Singh held a meeting with the representativesof stores and restaurants in the market at the Sector 29 police station.“There is acute traffic problem in this area. So, we consulted with the shop owners here and decided to regulate the traffic to free the roads of snarls. It will be implemented on a trial basis. If the move is successful, we will continue with the plan,” he said.
 
 Pawan Soni, owner of Prankster — a bar in Sector 29 market — approved of the changes. “We don’t want our guests to go through any inconvenience. This measure will help regulate the traffic in the area,” he said.
 
 Manish Sharma, owner of Molecule, another restaurant in the market, welcomed the move and thanked the DCP for initiating it. “Though our restaurant is situated on the rear side of the new one-way, we welcome the move as it will reduce inconvenience for people. Those who would get discouraged by traffic congestion may start coming to the market after the move,” he told TOI.
 
 Singh has instructed officers to ensure necessary signage is put up and commuters are informed about the changes. 
 
 The market is notorious for traffic congestion, which worsens over the weekend, thanks to the narrow roads leading to it. 
 
 Adding to the woes, vendors and vehicles park themselves along the road, disrupting traffic flow further.
 
 
