Pune: Military canteens, popularly known as   Store Department (CSD), have run out of adequate stock of essential goods owing to non-supply after the implementation of the Goods and Services Tax (GST), landing thousands of veterans and serving personnel in trouble.

 A senior   officer aware of the development told TOI, “Most of the CSDs in Maharashtra and other states are running dry because of non-supply of new stock post-GST. As a result, it has become difficult for the CSDs’ management to meet the daily requirement of customers.”
 
 He added, “We have been told that there were specific instructions to the CSD management to clear the pre-GST stock and then only they would be provided with fresh stock. Thus, the management is waiting to finish the old stock.”
 
 Several veterans and serving personnel complained that the government and the CSD management should have had an advanced plan to avoid the situation.
 
 The Southern Command’s main CSD store, where maximum veterans and serving personnel go for shopping, is also high and dry. The CSD stores at College of Military Engineering (CME), Bombay Engineering Group (BEG) and Air Force Station Lohegaon have dead stock, which will take a long time to sell, and most wanted items are not available.
 
 A senior veteran told TOI, “Essential items, particularly grocery, are not available in the stores. People there have been telling customers that they want to finish the old stock first.”
 
 Insiders said the stores were currently filled with the stock either required in the next season or can’t be sold immediately.
 
 Sources in the supply depot, Khadki, told TOI, “Post-GST, the depot has not got new stock and so there is no supply to the stores. Suppliers have to fix prices on each item, which is a time-consuming process. We expect to get the new stock in the coming weeks, which will be supplied to the stores subsequently.”
 
 A section of the sources said the government was planning to reduce the existing liquor quota for different ranks in the armed forces. The decision is likely to be implemented in the coming weeks.
 
 In the recent past, the army headquarters had issued a separate advisory in view of the implementation of the GST at stores across the country, a copy of which is in the possession of TOI. “Canteen Inventory Management System to prepare and forward revised software to all CSDs in order to switchover the billing process in GST environment,” the advisory states.
 
 The sources claimed that most of the stores were yet to get the new software and so they would not be able to sell new stock even if they got it.
 
 “Considering all these developments, it has become a cumbersome process for the management to resolve the current confusion at stores,” the sources added.
 
 The CSD was created to provide ‘easy access to quality products of daily use, at prices less than market rates’ to the soldiers, ex-servicemen and their families.
 
 The governing body of the Canteen Services in India is the Board of Control for Canteen Services (BOCCS)
 
 
