After the   banned the sale of alcohol in any establishment within 500m of national and state highways, many restaurants, hotels, and pubs in Gurgaon tweaked their entrances in order to increase the motorable distance to their establishment from the highway. The  , that houses the   hotel, is also among them. However, the move has not gone down well with the residents of the neighbouring Ambience Lagoon society since the new route passes through their society.

  The residents also claim that the mall authorities are trying to intimidate them into stopping their protest. 
 
  On Monday, the Ambience Mall authorities closed down the first three cuts along the road that connects the mall with the highway, which means that in order to reach the mall and the hotel, motorists will have to take a U-turn from the fourth cut down the road. While this increases the motorable distance of the mall from the highway, it also means that the new entrance road passes through the Ambience Lagoon apartment complex. The residents of the society – which houses 350 families – have complained to the authorities citing inconvenience and danger due to fast-moving cars coming to the mall and hotel. However, now the residents allege that in retaliation, the mall authorities have not only posted bouncers and guards at their society gate, but have also started denying them entry into the mall.
 
  
  Guards and bouncers arguing with Ambience Lagoon apartment residents about entry to the mall (BCCL/  )
 
 
  
 Sanjay Lal, vice president of the  , tells us, "They changed the route to the mall and the hotel from the highway to a road that goes through our society. We protested the move. But since Wednesday, they started denying residents entry into the mall, citing some reason or the other. Initially, we thought it was unrelated, but soon, it became clear that it is a strong-arming technique on their end. On Friday, they stationed guards on the entrance of our society's main gate and closed it, forcing us to take a U-turn some couple of hundred metres down the road to enter our own society. First, they were just inconveniencing us, but now, they are out to intimidate us." The residents say they have complained to senior police officials in the city as well as the   and Country Planning (DTCP) since the tweaking of the route is in violation of the town planning rules, but they say that no action has been taken as of yet.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  Residents say that there are additional guards and bouncers at the mall entry now, who are denying the residents entry. The guards stationed at the mall entrance say that they have received orders from their seniors to not let certain people inside the mall, which they are following. Mall officials say that the move is aimed at only stopping troublemakers, "We are not denying any resident entry into the mall arbitrarily. This seems to be a misunderstanding. The guards are instructed to stop only those who are known to create a ruckus and have done so in the past, and no law-abiding citizen would be discriminated against," says a security official from the mall, who did not wish to be named. While the bouncers and guards remain tight-lipped about the methodology used to determine those troublemakers, they say that they have been authorized to use force if necessary.
 
  
  
 
 
  However, residents allege that the mall authorities are targeting people who have been raising their voice about the route change. "They are only stopping a handful of people who have been protesting the mall’s decision to inconvenience us by making their entrance route pass through our society. A couple of days ago, they stopped a female resident who was going to watch a movie at the multiplex in the mall. How is she a nuisance?" asks Sanjay.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 The residents say that their problems do not end with just the entry to the mall being blocked or having to take a detour to enter their own society. Meena Ayri, a resident, elaborates, "I have an 11-year-old son who loves cycling on the society roads in the evening with his friends. But ever since the mall and hotel authorities have diverted their entrance through our society, there are cars driving down our roads at a high speed all day. It is too dangerous for the kids to play outside. They are virtually trapped indoors."
 
  Another resident,  , adds, "The new entry to the mall and hotel means that most of the cabs that come to drop off people there are parked in the 100m stretch between our society’s gate and the mall. That is the road we take when we walk down to the mall. Sometimes the cabbies pass lewd comments and ogle at the women. The girls in the society are so fed up that many of them have stopped stepping out of the society gate." Notably, there is a PCR van stationed near the mall entry that overlooks the above-mentioned road. The cops in the PCR van say that they would readily help the residents, but have not received any complaint regarding eve-teasing from them so far.
 
 
 
 
