BENGALURU: Charging the Congress government in Karnataka with corruption, and failure to maintain law and order, the BJP on Thursday presented a chargesheet listing the many failures under chief minister  . 

 The 63-page political chargesheet titled “Presented a mountain of promises but people went through a raft of hardship” against the Congress government was released by Karnataka BJP president   and leader of the opposition on the legislative assembly   here. Accusing the Siddaramaiah government of bad governance, corruption and betraying the people’s trust, the chargesheet lists its 29 major lapses.
 
 Pointing to the increase in murder rate in the past four years, particularly the number of political killings, Yeddyurappa said, “There have been around 6,521 murders, with 2,534 victims being women, in different parts of the state in the last four years. Nearly 1.25 lakh criminal cases have been registered in Bengaluru alone in this period.”
 
 Levelling charges of corruption at the CM, and other cabinet ministers, Shettar said, “The government has forced the anti-corruption agencies to issue clean chits in several instances including the diary case, the Hublot watch case and the MK Ganapathi suicide case.”
 
 Quoting the report recently submitted by the Centre for Media Studies, which named Karnataka the most corrupt state in the country, Shettar added, “The state secured 77 out of 100, the highest on corruption parameters in delivery of public service.”
 
 The BJP said that the Siddaramaiah government had neglected farmers and the economically backward classes, while looting the exchequer under the guise of Bhagya Schemes. The Congress government also came in for censure for its failure to effectively address the drought situation. Moreover, Shettar charged the CM, his cabinet colleagues and their kin with being involved in illegal extraction of sand. “1.93 lakh cubic metres have been illegally looted in the state,” Shettar said.
 
 Highlighting the government’s mismanagement of the finances, Shettar added, “The government has pushed the state into deep debt by borrowing Rs 91,269 crore in four years.”
 
 The former CM also slammed the Siddaramaiah government of failing to fulfil most of the promises made in the party’s manifesto for the 2013 assembly elections. “The government has failed to harness the potential for irrigation in the state, and farmers are being subjected to exploitation owing to lack of storage facilities and an efficient buy-back arrangement. We will present all the failures of the government to the people before the 2018 assembly elections,” he added.
 
 
 
 
 The divide within the BJP state unit showed no sign of disappearing anytime soon with leader of the opposition in the legislative council KS Eshwarappa choosing to absent himself for the presentation of the party’s chargesheet against the Siddaramaiah government. Jagadish Shettar said that he had not extended an invitation to the former deputy chief minister. “I have been releasing a chargesheet against the Congress government every year, and not once have I invited Eshwarappa to this. I have just continued the tradition,” said Shettar, who however, had no answers to questions on why Yeddyurappa had been invited.
 
 
