Coming after a cloud of uncertainty due to administrative chaos and a long home season, IPL-10 kept us glued to the couch, providing us with plenty of thrilling moments. 
 takes a look at the good and bad of the league...

 
 
 
 It was the most refreshing thing about IPL-10, and it's a development that augurs well for Indian cricket. For a change it wasn't just the Indian batsmen or bowlers doing well, but the domestic seamers who were occupying the limelight. While the likes of Bhuvneshwar Kumar, who took 26 wickets in 14 games@14.19, Jasprit Bumrah and Umesh Yadav re-iterated their class, it was the emergence of the little-known (Sandeep & Mohit Sharma, Jaydev Unadkat, Siddharth Kaul, Mohammad Siraj, Shardul Thakur) and unknown faces (Basil Thampi, Aniket Chaudhary, Avesh Khan) which came as a pleasant surprise. Bowling at a decent speed and employing variations, these pacers showed that Indian fast bowlers are no more easy meat.
 
 
 
 They can still get 'murdered' on the odd day, but the likes of Rashid Khan, Imran Tahir, Amit Mishra, Karn Sharma and   showed us that leg-spinners are a match-winning option in any format. Bowling with a Chris Harris type of action, Khan delivered deadly googlies which batsmen had just no clue against to boost the Sunrisers Hyderabad. The fact that along with Mohammad Nabi, he was the first from Afghanistan to play in the   added romance to his story. The sight of Tahir, who was summoned by Pune after remaining unsold at the auction, running across the ground after taking a wicket added to the charm of IPL-10.
 
 
 
 With almost one third of the games (19 out of 59 before the final) being decided in the final over (perhaps the highest number in an IPL edition) this was perhaps the most thrilling IPL ever. With nine out of their 15 games ending in the last over, MI kept their fans on the edge of their seats whenever they played, never ensuring a dull moment. Their most nerve-wracking finish came at Rajkot, when, thanks to a brilliant super over by Bumrah, they pipped the Gujarat Lions after the game ended in a thrilling tie.
 
 
 
 
 There were a few sniggers when he was bought by RPS for Rs 14.5 crores, but Ben Stokes proved his worth to propel his team into the final. Signing off as perhaps the most impactful English player ever in the IPL, the all-rounder smashed 316 runs in 12 games@31.60 (strike rate 142.98), including a brilliant hundred against Gujarat, took 12 wickets (avg 26.33, Economy rate: 7.18) took superb catches and effected run outs too.
 
 
 
 
 T20 cricket has always seen innovations, but KKR took the cake when they asked  , known more for his 'mystery spin' to open. The Caribbean left-hander had opened in a few games in the Big Bash League in the past, but no one would've expected the kind of success the 28-year went on to enjoy as he flung his bat. Beyond this innovative move, one saw the pacers develop a new skill which helped them not just survive, but go one up against some of the biggest hitters in the game -the knuckle ball. Australia's Andrew Tye used it well to take five wickets on his IPL debut for the Gujarat Lions, and then one saw the others pick it up as well.
 
 
 
 They aren't finished products yet, but India's young batting talent showed us glimpses of the future. Overcoming the loss of his father, Rishabh Pant smashed a 36-ball 57 for the Delhi Daredevils against RCB at Bangalore. Later, his 43-ball 97 against Gujarat, studded with nine sixes prompted batting legend Sachin Tendulkar to tweet that it was one of the best knocks that he'd seen in in the IPL. His teammate Sanju Samson put his career back on track by slamming 386 runs, including a hundred. MI's Nitish Rana and Pune's   were a surprise hit.
 
 
 
 The eliminator between KKR and SRH at Bangalore turned farcical after heavy rain delayed the start of Kolkata's six-over chase at 12.55 am. When Gautam Gambhir & Co won, it was 1.27 am. After the game, an exhausted KKR pacer,   criticised the late night finish, saying it was illogical to play cricket at 2am. KKR co-owner and Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan tweeted that there should be an extra day for the playoffs.
 
 
 
 
 This was easily the worst IPL when it came to umpiring. There were many howlers, leading players to lose their cool. At times, lbw decisions which looked plumb went in favour of the batsmen, while on other occasions, bowlers got lucky with a few bad calls too. During the MI vs SRH game at the Wankhede, the umpires forgot to count the correct number of balls as Sunrisers' skipper David Warner retained strike despite not taking a single on the last ball of the previous over. The BCCI defended itself by saying it wanted to give as much experience to the Indian umpires in high-pressure situations, but this is surely a cause for concern.
 
 
 
 
 Having been a regular for MI since the IPL began in 2008, Harbhajan received a jolt when he was dropped by the franchise for the opening clash against Pune. According to insiders, the decision didn't go down well with the 'Turbanator'. The experienced offie was brought in for the second game, and thereafter, proved to be frugal, maintaining an ER of 6.48, while taking eight wickets in 11 games. That, however, didn't prove to be enough to win coach Mahela Jayawardene's confidence, and he was dropped again for the playoffs. Have seen the last of 'Bhajji' in MI colours?
 
 
 
 
 The horrors of fixing, which has left the IPL tainted in the past, returned to an extent when it emerged that the police had arrested three suspected bookies from a Kanpur hotel which hosted players of Gujarat Lions and Daredevils. It was also reported that the cops had questioned two Gujarat Lions players who were allegedly named by the suspected bookies. While the BCCI has claimed that no players were found to have indulged in corrupt practices according to its Anti-Corruption Unit (ACU), don't be surprised if there's more to it than meets the eye!
 
 
 
 Wth   leading them and   and AB de Villiers in their ranks, RCB are supposed to be the most eye-catching team of the event, but all this Bangalore side managed was three wins, losing 10 out of its 14 games - making it the worstever season for them. It was a highly disappointing performance, and the chief 'culprits' were Gayle (200 runs in nine games@22.22) and Ab de Villiers (216 in nine games@27.00). Coming off a shoulder injury, Kohli hit four fifties, but failed to repeat the dream form he enjoyed in last year's IPL, when he had smashed a record four hundreds. The likes of Shane Watson, Kedar Jadhav and Mandeep Singh failed to make up for the stars' no-show, while the bowling, barring the spinners, was always going to struggle once Mitchell Starc opted out. 
 
 
