AURANGABAD: The city police have thwarted an attempt to register a false theft complaint of Rs 45 lakh and detained the three complainants. Police have registered a non-cognizable offence against the suspect for misleading police with false complaint.

 Primary investigations have revealed that the suspects work for a credit cooperative society that has a contract to collect electricity bill payment from customers at 14 bill collection centres in the city. However, they did not hand over the collected amount to the   and cooked up the theft complaint.
 
 One of the suspects is the president of the cooperative society, which bagged the contract from the MSEDCL about a couple of years ago. Another suspect is an accountant and the two others are employees of the society.
 
 As the MSEDCL is set to make the bill payment system digital from March 15, the authorities were insisting the society to deposit all the money they have collected from the 14 centres.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (zone-I) Vasant Pardeshi said, “The suspects on late Monday reached the   police station and complained that three unidentified men stole a bag containing Rs 45 lakh from their office.
 
 Taking cognizance of the complaint, Pardeshi, who is holding additional charge of the city police in the absence of commissioner of police Amitesh Kumar, rushed to the police station. He was followed by assistant commissioner of police (crime branch) Rameshwar Thorat and inspector  . After going through the complaint, they grew suspicious and decided to cross-verify the complaints. So, they went to the society’s office, from where the complainants claimed the bag was stolen.
 
 While going through the   footages, police found three of the complainants leaving the office with the bag, Pardeshi said.
 
 When interrogated, the trio confessed to cooking up a story since since they had swindled the money and were not in a position to return it. Later, they took the police to   lake, where they had thrown the empty bag.
 
 MSEDCL authorities said Rs 44.61 lakh is to be recovered from the suspects. 
 
