CHENNAI: A private firm that   (NHAI) commissioned for a feasibility report on upgrading a stretch of National Highway 47 (NH47) between Thiruvananthapuram and Kanyakumari faked details -including non-existent encroachments -to propose a new 70km four-lane stretch that hiked the project cost by at least `700 crore from the original estimate of `480 crore to `500 crore, former IAS officers and activists said, citing a study by IIT Roorkee to bolster the charge.

 The ex-officers and activists, who took up the issue with NHAI recently , said the firm came up with the `1,200crore proposal for a brand new stretch instead of the initial NHAI plan to widen the exis ting section, at the southern end of the 620km highway between Salem and Kanyakumari, for the benefit of a large infrastructure company . 
 
 After locals complained at the firm's proposed that the firm's proposed alignment for the four-way stretch would pose a grave threat to water bodies and farmland along the route, NHAI has set up a three-member panel to probe the issue. 
 
 The panel, consisting of three senior IAS offi cers, will also investi gate the allegations of a scam by contractors associated with the development after the firm's proposal, sources said. NHAI had in 2003 decided to widen the stretch of NH47, called `Rajapathai' when preIndependence authorities in 1932 started construction of the highway between Kanyakumari and the Kerala capital, then called Trivandrum.
 
 This section remains in barely motorable condition -in no small part due to the failure to upgrade and widen the highway . A firm that NHAI selected had in September 2008 submitted a feasibility report (detailed project report) recommending the construction of a new four-way lane, arguing that various encroachments, including religious structures and educational and healthcare institutions, on road sides of the stretch made widening impossible.
 
 Evidence that IIT-R researchers collected from the field, however, showed that there were no such structures on both sides at any point along the section of highway .Their study , conducted in association with the Institute of Town Planners, India (ITPI), said there was adequate poromboke (government) land on both sides, making it possible to “widen the existing [highway] without disturbing the structures by employing proper physical planning methods“. The existing stretch has a width of between 27m and 40m, said former IAS officer M  .
 
 “Under the Indian Road Congress norms, the minimum width for a four-lane highway is 23.5m, but the alignment that the firm proposed had a width of 60m,“ he said. He said the original terms of reference (ToR) mentioned in tenders NHAI floated for consultancy services to prepare the DPR, clearly stated that any firm interested in the project should take up widening work within the existing right of way to avoid land acquisition issues.
 
 “The proposal to create a `duplicate NH47' is in gross violation of the ToR clauses,“ Devasahayam told TOI. Conservation of Nature Trust, Nagercoil, chairman R S Lal  , who is fighting a legal battle against the new proposal, said nearly 80% of land through which the proposed stretch passes is fertile and agricultural land.
 
 “It will swallow up more than 200 wells, 75 irrigation tanks and 350 canals and directly affect more than 40,000 people,“ he said. When the southern bench of the   (NGT) re cently heard the case, Mohan said, NHAI stated that the new proposal would not affect any water body . But the NGT in June 2017 directed that NHAI construct 34 major and 43 minor bridges and 173 culverts and completely change the alignment of the new stretch. NHAI subsequently floated tenders again for consultancy services to prepare a DPR to realign the road.
 
 The ToR again mentioned that the project involved upgrading of the existing road.“Even before the deadline to commission consultants, NHAI started steps -demolishing buildings and cutting trees -to evict landowners along the new four-lane stretch,“ Devasahayam said.
 
