KOLKATA: The six-member team appointed to probe the Apollo death last week has launched an investigation to check if treatment had been delayed, unnecessary tests done and whether bills were inflated. It also started an enquiry to check medical negligence and if bills were unclear or misleading. The team, led by senior medic Subir Chattopadhyay, spent more than three hours at the hospital on Tuesday interacting with senior employees, doctors and nurses.

 According to health department sources, the preliminary findings have gone against Apollo Gleneagles. The hospital has been asked to furnish all prescriptions, papers and bills relating to the treatment of Sanjoy Roy, 30, who died at the SSKM Hospital on February 24, soon after being released from Apollo. The hospital had charged more than Rs 8 lakh for the treatment and allegedly refused to release Sanjoy till the entire amount was paid.
 
 The team interacted with as many as nine doctors and six nurses, seeking details of treatment, procedure and medical bills, said a hospital source. “While they spoke extensively to the doctors and nurses, the focus of their inquiry seemed to be the bills. They have sought every bill sequentially and it is clear that they are seeking evidence to check if they had been inflated,” said the source.
 
 “Bills will be scrutinized along with the tests recommended. The idea is to check if the tests were essential and if they held up treatment. Investigating doctors will also focus on the time taken to commence Sanjoy’s treatment and whether the crucial golden hour had elapsed before he was attended to. Finally, the team will enquire whether the hospital authorities had wasted time in releasing Sanjoy when he was being shifted to SSKM. This could be the most important part of the probe and Apollo could face action if this is proved true,” said a health department source. The   has also asked Apollo to provide all prescriptions and documents relating to the treatment by Thursday.
 
 At around 2 pm, the investigating team drove into the hospital premises. Team members went into the administrative block where they remained cooped up for the next three hours. Entry was barred for everyone, except a handful of hospital staff.
 
 With the enquiry noose tightening, the Apollo Gleneagles authorities went into a shell. Hospital officials remained out of bounds through the day. No official statement was issued by the hospital on Tuesday.
 
