MELBOURNE:  's 45-11 record in the opening Grand Slam of the year is a fair reflection of his campaigns here. The Scot has made five finals, but finished on the wrong side of the scoreline each time. The world No.1, looking for his first win at Melbourne Park, however, isn't taking his record or his run-ins with the No. 2 seed  , to whom he has lost four of those title clashes, too seriously.

 The 29-year-old, one of the hardest working players on the Tour, prefers to dwell on the modern mantra of 'positive thoughts' to reverse the trend. “I feel pretty confident after the way last season finished. I love it here, love the conditions. I've played really well here over the years, just haven't managed to get over the final hurdle,” Murray said, his countenance mirroring his intent. “I think I'm in a decent position to do it. I have a chance to win here. I'm playing well. Practice has been good. I feel healthy. I'll give it a good shot.”
 
 Murray may have the likes of the legendary Roger Federer lodged in his quarter of the draw and Swiss strongman   and Japan's quiet negotiator   in the same half, but it is the shadow of Djokovic - the likelihood of a fifth final against his steel-lined strokes - that hangs over Murray like a dark cloud. The Briton's loss to the world No. 2 in Doha last week, his 25th in 36 encounters, didn't help. Five of those reverses have come at the  , where he also lost an energy sapping semi-final in 2012.
 
 Murray, the Australian Open's top-seed, who falls back on data when planning his campaigns, said his play revolves around movement, not just against the top players, but against any opponent.“I feel like my movement and my speed around the court is a very important part of my game,“ Murray who opens against Ukraine's Illya Marchenko, who he beat in the second round six years ago said.“That's something that I try to work on all of the time.”
 
 “I watch videos to learn about things that I could do better,” Murray said of preparation when playing someone like Djokovic. “There are certain patterns of play that you practice that hopefully will help against certain players. Then also there's things that are extremely important to your game and what makes your game effective, not just against one player, but against the whole tour.”
 
 An ATP statistical study has linked Murray's ascension to the top to the amount of time the Scot has spent on the court. The analysis correlates Murray's improvement with the number of hours spent in competition. In 2016 the 29-year-old spent more time than anyone else in the top-10 on the court. The world No. 1 spent 162 hours on court, up from 151 in 2015. The Briton's average set time in 2015 was 44 minutes and in 2016, when he took over the top spot in the rankings, it climbed to 46 minutes.
 
