NEW DELHI: Ahead of  , intelligence agencies and the Special Cell of   are on the lookout for at least two terror suspects of Afghan origin. Sleuths are scanning south Delhi localities such as Lajpat Nagar, Bhogal and Khirki Extension, where most Afghan tourists and refugees usually stay, sources said.

 The operation has been undertaken after a recent meeting of different departments wherein the chief of an intelligence agency shared inputs about Jaish-e-Mahammed operatives having used forged Afghan passports to sneak into the country in order to carry out attacks around Republic Day. 
 
 In December 2015, Jaish’s faction based in Kabul had sent in two operatives who had stayed in Lajpat Nagar till mid January but aborted their mission and fled due to an accidental, low-intensity IED blast.
 
 According to sources, Rajpath and New Delhi district have been brought under a robust access control mechanism and the entire area has been divided into 25 zones. Each zone will be headed by a senior cop and an agency sleuth.
 
 The Special Cell was asked to carry out security drills and infiltrate Rajpath area. The cell, it is learnt, made 60 bids without any success. Cops told TOI that a fresh recce of buildings near Rajpath has been ordered. Around 50 spotters have been brought in from other states and they will be deployed, along with snipers, on the terraces and tree-tops. 
 
 NSG and SPG personnel will guard the portion of Rajpath where dignitaries will be seated. Delhi Police will form the outermost layer of the seven-tier security ring. Around 150 companies (15,000 personnel) of central forces will keep a watch on vital installations. 
 
 Rajpath will be a no-fly zone and to prevent vehicle-borne IED attacks, buses will be parked at intersections. In a meeting held on Sunday, a presentation on major suspects was shown to all stakeholders and suggestions sought for having watertight security in place.
 
 Last year, CIA of the US and France’s Directorate General for External Security had helped the Indian sleuths secure the capital ahead of the R-Day celebrations. French President Francois Hollande was the chief guest last year. 
 
 Troopers from the Corps of Signals of the Indian Army will also be posted around Rajpath round the clock to monitor movement of vehicles and visitors. Delhi Police’s SWAT commandos will be stationed on the parade route till Red Fort. 
 
 A police team has been trained by the Indian Air Force to spot UAVs and alert IAF personnel who will be deployed with air defence weapons. The Army has positioned its quick reaction teams (QRTs) comprising para commandos across Delhi to respond to emergencies. Overall, there will be more than 50,000 personnel from Delhi Police, CAPFs, SPG and NSG who will be on duty from Wednesday night. 
 
 Cops from various police stations have been asked to increase patrolling in their respective areas. Deployment has been stepped up near vital installations like embassies, monuments, stadiums and crowded markets. 
 
 
 
 
