KANNUR: The fight between the CPM and the   is intensifying over the alleged untouchability in Azhikkal   in the district, with the CPM arguing that there is no such issue while the dalit groups claiming that the CPM is misleading the people.

 A CPM delegation, comprising party district secretary P Jayarajan and party leaders MV Jayarajan and secretary KP Sudhakaran, which visited the temple on Sunday, had said there was no case of untouchability and the BJP was spreading canards. The party leaders visited the temple after the BJP took over the issue.
 
 According to the leaders, there is no ban on the dalits entering the temple or making offering though the dalit houses are avoided from ‘Thiruvayudham Ezhunnallathu’, in which the sacred sword to the goddess is taken to the homes of devotees. However, according the party, this is an old custom which is followed as per the tradition, and it is decided by the general body of the temple.
 
 Though the temple had forbidden entry to the dalits till 1970, and they had to keep certain distance away from it, and also their offerings were known as ‘adimappanam’ (slave money), the custom was changed and now there is no ban, said the leaders.
 
 This itself is the pointer to the double standards of the CPM, alleged Janadhipathya Rashtriya Sabha (JRS) general secretary and dalit activist Thekkan Sunilkumar, who launched the agitation against the old custom, saying that it is totally anti-dalit.
 
 “The CPM is trying to mislead people to hide its own shame, because we had never said that there is ban on dalits entering the temple,” he said addressing a press conference here on Monday. “We are made part of all the businesses in the temple but when it comes to aspects of spiritual bliss like the ‘Thiruvayudham Ezhunnallathu’ ritual, we are kept away which causes trauma to the young children, as it gives the feeling that they belong to an ostracized community.”
 
 He also said the dalit groups would continue their struggle against it because such discrimination is in violation of the Protection of Civil Rights Act, 1955. If the ‘adimappanam’ custom can be changed, what is the problem in including the dalit community as part of the ‘Thiruvayudham Ezhunnallathu’, he asked, adding that the CPM has the casteist approach and hence it is behaving like this.
 
