BHOPAL: After coming across copying cases running in hundreds during exams, Madhya Pradesh   Bhoj Open University (MPBOU) has decided to strictly check students before they enter exam hall. Sources said the university is planning to go in for tough measures, as adopted by Vyapam, which conducts a string of major entrance test and recruitment exams in the state.

 According to an official data, the university booked 1,600 students, including 900 at Bhopal regional centre for using unfair means during the ongoing exams for under-graduate courses. Sources said the university is likely to cancel the exam, which was conducted at   centre. Around 1 lakh students are pursuing various courses from the university. 
 
 University’s vice-chancellor   says, “There is an urgent need to overhaul the system during the exam.” “Copying by such a large number of students is not a good sign for any university. We need to strengthen the entire exam process,” Kanhere said. “There was a need to check copying in the past. I will not tolerate such issues,” he said. 
 
 Sources said the exam centre inchrages have told vice-chancellor they were not able to handle copying cases. Realising seriousness of the issue, the university has decided to maintain strict vigil at exam centres. 
 
 “There is a need for strict checking of students as flying squad can’t visit every centre at one time. We will prepare a road map in this regard,” said Kanhere. He, however, did not disclose as what kind of checking measures will be implemented. 
 
 Sources said the university is considering adopting measures like biometrics to put a check on copying. 
 
 He made it clear the university has decided to streamline the academic calendar. “Gone are the days when there was a tradition of submitting forms a day before the exam. Students must understand that they have to follow rules and regulations of the university,” said Kanhere. 
 
 Flying squads are formed at every regional centres this year for the first time. There are 11 regional centres of the Bhoj university.
 
