BENGALURU: People dependent on services of cab aggregators found it difficult to return to old ways of commuting on Friday. With   and   cabbies staying off the road for the second day, many had a tough time stepping out of their homes.

 Compared to Thursday, Friday saw even fewer cabs on the road. With apps not working or drivers accepting bookings only to cancel them, Bengalureans had no choice but to look for   or hop onto   buses. 
 
 Nayantara A, a student from Fraser Town, booked a cab to go to K R Puram in the morning and waited for 25 minutes for the vehicle to turn up. “Five minutes into the ride, the cabbie said he was scared to go to KR Puram as members from the drivers’ union would be waiting at some points. He feared they’d stop him and even damage his car. He asked me if I would prefer to be dropped at Ramamurthy Nagar instead and take a bus or an autorickshaw from there,” she Nayantara.
 
 Sushma Indrajit, a professional from Cambridge Layout, has already switched to her own vehicle. Once a regular user of the Uber Ola’s ride-sharing arrangement, Sushma said, “Though ride-sharing wasn’t easy on my pocket, it made sense given the chaotic traffic. I also preferred cabs for my mother who frequently travels to Malleswaram and Basavanagudi. But now we have hired a driver through an agency to drive her around. It’s costly, but we are left with little choice.” 
 
 Several Bengalureans were practically stranded, endlessly waiting for cabs. Among the worst affected were those headed to the airport; many reached Hebbal and struck deals with cabbies to take them to KIA. People were seen pulling their trolley bags on roads under Hebbal flyover. Some even shared cabs with other flyers. But thanks to shortage of cabs, the fare from that point to the airport, which is usually Rs 150 per person, was hiked to Rs 250 on Friday.
 
 Stir may soon turn nasty 
 
 This is the third time in a month that cabbies have called off services, agitating against the management and the government for failing to resolve the tiff between the two parties. And there are indications enough that things might turn nastier this time, with at least a dozen organizations claiming to represent the drivers joining the stir.
 
 Places like Koramangala, Indiranagar, the stretch between Silk Board and Mahadevapura and Whitefield had few cabs plying in the morning. However, as soon as word spread, union members forced drivers to stop ferrying passengers. By afternoon, the apps showed there were no cabs plying in these places.
 
 Sources in the Ola, TaxiForSure and Uber drivers association made it clear that they’ll prevent cabbies from plying. “Cabs won’t ply until the government and the management come together to resolve our issues, get rid of dynamic pricing models and fix the tariff, reduce the number of trips to get incentives and stop penalizing us for cancellations and other petty reasons. We cannot trust the government either,” said Tanveer Pasha, head of the Ola, TaxiForSure and Uber drivers association. 
 
 Meanwhile, the drivers’ unions plan to stage their agitation at one common point in the city on Saturday, and are seeking police permission for the same.
 
