NAGPUR: “The real challenge for hearing-impaired children will begin when they step into the real world and they can succeed only if we give them the confidence to overcome those hurdles,” said Dr   while speaking at the annual day celebration of Pranav   for Young Hearing Impaired Children, at Chitnavis Centre, Civil Lines.

 Chair is the director of research and medical education technology at NPK Salve Institute of Medical Sciences and Research Centre and was present at the function on Sunday as the chief guest.   Avantika Chitnavis was also present.
 
 Chari believes that differently-abled children will be given the same opportunities as other children in the future and special schools will no longer exist.
 
 Set-up in 2010, ‘Pranav’ is an initiative by   Trust. Its objective is to develop verbal language skills and motor coordination in hearing-impaired children to prepare them for admissions into regular schools by the time they are five or six years old.
 
 During the programme, children who were under training as well as those who completed it attempted to recite poetry. The difference was noticeable as the children who graduated had a clearer speech than their younger counterparts. Children who graduated from the centre are now studying in regular schools.
 
 The centre has specially trained teachers who teach children lip reading which helps develop verbal skills in them. According to Chitnavis, hearing impairment does not mean complete deafness and ‘residual hearing’ is present. However, this capacity may deteriorate as the child grows, she added.
 
 “Specially designed hearing aids are used at the centre to harness the remaining hearing capacity of the child and amplify it,” said Chitnavis, adding, “Giving children confidence to overcome their shortcomings is more important than training them to speak.” 
 
 A teacher from the centre said, “Newborns till the age of three can be admitted once the impairment is identified, the earlier the problem is detected the better.” 
 
