MUMBAI: The transport department released the final notification on the new city taxi scheme on Wednesday, which puts “severe restrictions” on driver partners of cab aggregators such as Ola and Uber.

 Rule 5(20) of the notification, for instance, states that vehicles that currently operate under the All India Tourist permits will not be allowed to run as aggregators under the new rules, unless the driver converts the tourist permit to an “app-based taxi permit” under the new scheme. Officials said drivers will no longer have the privilege of operating pan-India with the cab once they register themselves as app-based taxis in Mumbai. This could prove to be a huge setback for scores of drivers who currently operate under Ola and Uber platforms.
 
 The second big setback, as per the notification, will be the need for a mandatory PSV (public service vehicle) badge for every driver. At present, the majority of Ola and Uber drivers do not hold this badge but drive using a commercial licence. However, Rule 7 of the government notification mentions that the “driver shall have a valid commercial driving licence and also a valid PSV badge issued by the licensing authority”.
 
 Officials said a majority of Ola and Uber drivers are not badge-holders and they will have to queue up before the transport department to get their antecedents checked and police verification done before providing proofs of residence for the new driving badges. “It will put a stringent check on drivers and weed out unscrupulous ones and those with criminal records,” said a senior transport official.
 
 Another rule in the notification states that drivers need a uniform. “The driver on duty shall be in uniform as approved by the licensing authority or as per the company design.” 
 
 It further states: “Every driver will have to undertake refresher training on safe driving skills, gender sensitization and passenger etiquette once in a year... The driver will not pick up passengers by street hailing.”
 
 
