KOLKATA: The Calcutta high court on Thursday allowed the   till midnight on all days, starting from September 30 (Bijaya Dashami) and including October 1, the 10th day of  , when processions are taken out. The court, in its interim order, overruled the state government ban on immersions on October 1, saying its decision was based on apprehensions and had no material basis.

 A division bench of Actiing Chief Justice Rakesh Tiwari and Justice Harish Tandon followed the almanac dates for immersion and directed the administration to designate separate routes for immersion and Muharram   processions across Bengal so that they would not overlap with each other.
 
 The court asked the state director general of police, police commissioners and all police stations to publicise the designated routes for the sake of “amity and harmony“. The bench also tur ned down the government's plea to stay the operation of the interim order.
 
 “The state has no religion, which is one of the fundamental facets underlying secularism. There should not be any order of precedence in performing religious rites, rituals, ceremonies and mourning among religious communities. There should be equality in every citizen's right with corresponding obligation of the state to protect it,“ the bench observed. Responding to state advo cate general Kishore Dutta's repeated insistence for prohibition of immersion on Muharram day , the acting CJ said: “You are taking the last resort first. You have to go step by step. You are the state, you have the power. But don't do anything arbitrary .“ State advocate-general Kishore Dutta wanted to know whether the state's ban decision went against law. Acting CJ Rakesh Tiwari then reminded him that the state took an “extreme step“ based merely on apprehension. “Where is the material to substantiate your apprehension? You took an extreme step based on apprehension. You exercised power without any basis,“ he added.
 
 The bench mentioned that the right to religion, as enshrined under Articles 25 and 26 of the Constitution, was not absolute. “In such a case, where there is any possibility or apprehension for disturbance of peace, the sta te has to take steps to prevent (that) or regulate,“ the bench said, adding that was the preferred step to stopping “a religious sect or community from exercising its faith and rituals on any day“.
 
 The court asked the advocate-general the number of applications seeking licence from the Muslim community for Taziya processions. “Only one application was produced, which did not reveal any discord or disharmony be cause of the conflict between the two religious communities in  . No case has been made out in the course of arguments that there is any antecedent, which may reasonably lead to the possibility of untoward incidents, for which reasonable restrictions or prohibition can be made in the interest of maintaining law and order,“ the bench reasoned.
 
 State advocate-general Dutta pointed out that Durga immersion and Muharram dates came closer in a 25-year cycle. “It has been happening for the last two years. This has prompted the administration to take such a decision. I would urge the court not to interfere with the administrative decision,“ the advocate-general said but did not mention the 2016 order of a Calcutta High Court division bench that banned immersion on Muharram day.
 
 Dutta, instead, asked the court whether it would take responsibility if anything untoward happened, prompting Justice Tiwari to say: “Why should the court take responsibility? The administration is there.They have to take measures to prevent such untoward incidents.“
 
