KOLKATA: The Union Budget has achieved the right balance between providing a growth impetus and maintaining fiscal prudence, said  , MD and CEO, ICICI Bank. 

 "It has comprehensively addressed all areas of socio-economic priority: farmers, poor and under-privileged sections of the society, infrastructure development and strengthening of the financial sector. The Finance Minister has rightly prioritized investment in infrastructure and the rural economy, with a focus on inclusive growth and capacity building," she said. 
 
 "The increase in capital spending and the proposals for investment in a range of areas from affordable housing to roads and railways would not only have a multiplier impact on other sectors of the economy but also enhance employment generation and make the growth inclusive. The thrust on digital transactions will increase the size of the formal economy and also make the payment systems more convenient and efficient. The tax measures are aimed at improving direct tax mobilization by broadening the tax base and improving tax administration."
 
 "The continuity in policy, with the over-arching objective of sustainable and inclusive growth under-pinned by good governance, is very welcome," she added.
 
 
 
 
 The   has demonstrated fiscal prudence while placing a strong emphasis on infrastructure building and in addressing the housing needs of rural India and of specific income segments in urban India, said Anita Arundas, CEO/MD, Mahindra Lifespace Developers.
 
 “We welcome the conferment of infrastructure status to affordable housing, which can improve resource allocation to the sector, thereby reducing cost of capital for developers. Moreover, the changes under Section 80 IB with respect to size of units (built up area to carpet area), timeframes for project completion (3 years to 5 years) and geography (upto 60 sq.m. beyond the 4 metros) will encourage greater participation by organised developers in the affordable housing segment, thereby catalysing development and reducing the supply gap.”
 
 "Interest subsidies announced last year under PMAY and further broadened during the recent address of the Prime Minister will further help reduce cost of home ownership for the relevant segment. Enhancement of budget allocation under PMAY and to NHB will greatly help finance these segments. Overall, the focus accorded to housing and infrastructure will provide impetus to accessibility, connectivity and job creation, which bodes well for the nation’s economy.”
 
 
 
 
 "It’s a positive budget for the common man from the point of view of health care delivery Rs. 6000/- transfer to each pregnant lady which is a nationwide program will help long way in offering medical care to pregnant ladies during child birth, especially in rural India where Rs 6000/- is a large sum of money I am sure it will have some impact on the maternal and infant mortality in a positive manner, allotment of Rs.1, 84,632 crore for women and children alone will be a big support to protect the lives of venerable group of people, elimination of TB by 2025 is a possible target however with big investment," Devi Shetty, Founder and Chairman, Narayana Hrudayalaya, said.
 
 "The fact that government has made a declaration should help the infrastructure development to make it happen. Two Aims one is Jharkhand and Gujarat will definitely help improving the tertiary health care of that area and also to train world class doctors for which Aims are famous for. About undertaking structural transformation of the regulator frame work of medical education will be a game changer if implemented properly."
 
 “Over a period of three years we have seen positive developments by the government in transforming the frame work of medical education. The single step will be thousand times more powerful than additional allocation of funds. Aadhar based smart card for senior citizens to monitor the health will be a positive step towards universal EMR which is absolutely required for transforming health care using digital technology,” Shetty said.
 
 On the whole , he said, it is a positive budget for the common man from the point of view of health care delivery.
 
 
 
 
 “This budget has very little to offer to the tourism industry, but with plans to launch Incredible India 2.0 as the next phase of growth for domestic tourism with respect to India, there is something to look forward to. India has a vast railway network and the recently announced Railway Budget acknowledges the strength of this,” said Mahesh Iyer, COO, Thomas Cook Limited.
 
 One of the biggest announcements is the withdrawal of service charge on rail tickets booked through IRCTC. This will not only lead to more bookings but will enable the consolidation of a digital economy. Another significant development is the emphasis on safety and sanitation, by introducing bio-toilets, which will increase passenger comfort. It is also encouraging to note the measures that will be incorporated to make the Railways friendlier for the disabled. With emphasis on a digital economy, by introducing measures like elimination of service charge while booking rail tickets on IRCTC, launching DigiGaons to facilitate employment, skilling, and even augmenting transactions done via the BHIM app; the Finance Minister has laid out a path that directs the country towards digital transformation.
 
 “These are signs of a progressive growth story and we are confident that the steps charted in the Budget will act as catalysts for change and thus move people from the unorganized sector to organized sector. Having said that, from my point of view this budget is a subdued one,” Iyer said.
 
 
 
 
 “This was an appropriate, growth-oriented budget. There was a tremendous emphasis on rural and agricultural growth with several initiatives announced,” said Adi Godrej, Chairman, Godrej Group.
 
 "One of the welcome developments on agriculture was that a new legislation on contract farming is to be introduced. Once contract farming is strongly encouraged, it will add tremendously to agricultural productivity. Another positive was the announcement that all of India’s villages will be electrified by 2018. We welcome this emphasis on the rural sector as greater agricultural prosperity will boost rural consumption and strongly benefit our businesses, particularly Godrej Consumer Products and Godrej Agrovet.
 
 The budget also laid a strong emphasis on real estate development, especially affordable housing. Infrastructure status for affordable housing is a hugely positive step. Real estate is the single largest business in India and any measures to encourage growth in the sector should provide a fillip to GDP growth. We expect Godrej Properties will benefit considerably from the real-estate focussed measures announced today.
 
 There were several other bright spots in the Finance Minister’s speech, notably measures to ensure the empowerment of women, make our education system more robust and skill our country’s youth.
 
 We must applaud the Finance Minister for the new rules he put in place governing funding of political parties. This marks a much-needed step in the government’s drive to rid the economy of black money and should also strengthen our democratic institutions.
 
 The budget confirmed that GST will be implemented starting July 2017. The extension of MAT credit to 15 years is a good development. However, the increase in Income Tax rates for those earning over Rs.50 Lac is a negative development.
 
 All in all, the budget speech confirmed India’s strong macro-economic position. The Finance Minister’s proposals will cement India’s place as the fastest-growing major economy in the world, well on the way to becoming a developed economy by 2050."
 
 
 
 
 "COAI welcomes the budget and would like to congratulate   for presenting a well-balanced budget. The provisions announced are equally beneficial for Indian citizens and the private sector. It aims to empower various sections of the society financially, which will in turn drive growth in business. India is at the cusp of a massive digital revolution and industry is all set to lead from the front."
 
 Rajan S Mathews, Director General, COAI, said, “This budget has made pro-people announcements in order to promote nation-wide telecom connectivity. Rural connectivity has been given the necessary thrust and it will be beneficial move for the telecom industry as well. Industry will pitch in with all its strength and fill necessary gaps.”
 
 From the overall business perspective, it is a positive budget and the industry will find itself in better position to carry forward some of its ambitious network rollout plans. “We agree that there is no scarcity of spectrum in the country. We support the allocation and harmonisation of spectrum. Through a fair, transparent and open auction process. The primary issue is not the quantity of spectrum, but its pricing, quality, deployment and how soon the bidders will be able to access the allocated spectrum. Availability of spectrum is no longer an issue and we agree with the Finance Minister on this,” said Mathews.
 
 "The industry further welcomes the proposal to extend the period for claiming credit of MAT from 10 to 15 years relaxation in transfer pricing compliance on specific domestic transactions etc. This will contribute to the ease of doing business. Extension of window for 5% withholding tax from June 2017 to June 2020 on interest payable on ECBs (External Commercial Borrowings) and on Masala Bonds (Rupee denominated bonds) should also be positive for the industry."
 
 "We believe that the telecom industry will continue to play a significant role in promoting the financial inclusion and will ensure that all flagship schemes benefit all. We are pleased with the overall emphasis of the Budget focusing on the growth of the economy as well as providing improvements in the economic wellbeing of the country, which will help the overall telecom industry. However, we are disappointed the economic wellbeing and financial health of the industry has not been addressed through the specific asks which we highlighted."
 
 "We celebrate the aspirations of a billion Indians dreams and hope with an enhanced purchasing power, skilled work force, mobile adoption will receive a shot in the arm, also driving data consumption. We are hopeful that the Ministry will take into consideration our requests for stable policy environment and to minimize litigation and to enhance financial viability of the operators."
 
 "The industry remains committed towards a fully connected and digitally empowered India and we’re proud of the fact that we’ve crossed the one billion connections benchmark."
 
