NEW DELHI: For the graded response plan to effectively check severe air pollution in the  , various government departments, ponderous at the best of times, will need to get into the act swiftly, sometimes within hours. This makes the entire measure a test of tremendous  , but the Delhi government is optimistic this can be done. 

 “If you notice many of the steps listed in the response plan were implemented by Delhi government in November,” pointed out a senior government official. “We will be able to implement such measures, including odd-even road rationing. Certain topics like introducing differential rates for public transport during off-peak hours will, however, have to be examined.”
 
 Since Delhi normally enjoys only a month or two of acceptable air quality during the monsoons, the elaborate response plan will force many agencies to quickly set into motion a template of anti-pollution measures many times in a year. A panel to oversee this interlocking of official gears has, therefore, been formulated. 
 
 The   told the   on December 2 that a task force will be set up at the central level, comprising its officials and others from the ministry of environment and forests, Delhi Pollution Control Committee,   state pollution control boards, the Indian Meteorological Department and health experts. The task force will meet at least once a week — daily during the vexatious mid-October to mid-February period — to review air quality status and weather forecast. The task force will alert the Supreme Court-mandated Environment Pollution Control Authority on air quality and weather trends, which will then issue directions to chief secretaries of all NCR states on the required response action. 
 
 For the action plan to be implemented in Delhi, the participation of traffic police, transport department and the municipal corporations is crucial. The traffic cops will be responsible for preventing trucks from entering the capital, cracking down on visibly polluting vehicles and enforcing road rationing on “emergency” air quality days. The civic bodies will be required to crack down on construction projects and hike parking fee enough to deter car users when the air quality is “very poor”. The transport department will need to enhance public transport, introduce differential rates and increase the frequency of metro and bus services.
 
 Even though the odd-even scheme is considered an enforcement nightmare, the traffic police aren’t complaining, and a senior officer claimed that force is well placed to achieve the crisis-time objectives of declogging arterial roads that are prone to traffic jams and stopping heavy commercial vehicles from entering the city. Special drives will also be conducted to identify polluting vehicles, and around 50 teams on motorbikes will be deployed to chase and book such vehicles, the cops said.
 
 However, interventions such as hiking parking rates will require the municipal corporations to step in, and such steps will need political will. PK Gupta, commissioner of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, told TOI, “Where parking is concerned, we did not observe much impact when we raised the rates last year, but the orders will be followed as they come.” In the south civic body, the spokesperson assured, “If need be, the graded response action plan will be discussed in the House for a formal approval to enable all actions to be taken.”
 
 In the  , a spokesperson said that many measures required by the response plan had already been formalised, including checking of leaf burning, construction and burning of wood ovens. “We have a team that considers violations of the prohibition on burning of waste and flouting of pollution norms by construction sites. During pollution exigencies, this team will be asked to intensify its vigil.”
 
 
