Awhile ago, Shikha Sharma, managing director of Axis Bank Ltd, one of India's largest private banks, provided each employee with an ergonomic chair, regardless of stature. The ` 45,000 Liberty chair was to enhance employee health.

  Adidas, in their Indian headquarters in Gurugram, Haryana, has open spaces where you can take breaks. Sportz Interactive office in Mumbai has a running track in between rows of cubicles in their office for employees to run! Puma’s office in Bengaluru installed a rock-climbing wall to promote the motto of joyfulness.
 
  
 
 
  Workplace wellness is no longer just a fad. A lot of organisations are moving into a “culture of wellness”. In an age where work and home time have overlapped, people are obsessed with their health, and have very little time to exercise, various organisations are making efforts to create healthier and happier workers – within the workspace. 
 
  Entrepreneur Aditi Balbir says, “Millennials want fulfillment; they are seeking happiness in everything they do. Even at work, they don't want to miss out on good things in life.” Despite still being largely conservative in its approach to work, quite a few Indian companies have started to make changes for a healthy and wholesome employee relationship. One of the biggest changes has been flexi timings. 
 
  In fact, researchers from the University of Minnesota conducted a study showing how flexible schedules increased employees’ well-being and encouraged healthy behaviour in office. People were able to get more sleep and feel more energised than ever before. Says Vivek Bhargava, CEO, Dan Performance Group, “New-age workplaces, especially start-ups, have brought in a culture conducive to having a healthy work-life balance – a demand most people come with these days. We have concepts like floating leaves, duvet days (work from home), early punch outs, etc. to re-define conventional 9-5 approach.” 
 
  Radhika Mukherji, CEO, Happydemic, believes these days people look at dedication, hard work and productivity, not the number of hours clocked in. “Office schedules are relaxed to work around personal commitments – encouraged by organisations.”
 
  
 
 
  In short, employees would rather be “well-thy” instead of just running after wealth. Says Smita Sundararaman, founder, NatureHealz, “Gone are the days when employee welfare was limited to providing life and health insurance coverage. Companies are going all out these days to lure and retain the best possible talent – health workshops, yoga classes, diagnostic checkups, zumba classes, workstation re-designing, meditation, healthy meal options, flexi-working hours, in-house gyms, wellness gift vouchers, medical facilities, etc. The focus is turning towards prevention and continuous health management rather than reactive interventions when something goes wrong."
 
 
 
  Workplace wellness experts are redesigning offices to provide a happy, relaxed environment. Employees are encouraged to wear what reflects their individual styles. Architect Taran Saggu explains, “Modern office space is organically in sync with the new generation of the worker – layouts would include relaxation and recreation rooms, have plenty of natural light, build healthy food stations and fitness joints.” 
 
  As Gen Z spends more time in office than ever, they are making sure there are no compromises to living a holistic life. Very soon you may be walking to your office in your yoga pants. 
 
 
 
  While researching for her book Cold Intimacies: The Making of Emotional Capitalism, professor of sociology at the Hebrew University, Jerusalem, Eva Illouz noticed a strange side effect of people trying to be work-oriented: They started to treat their private lives like work tasks and viewed their personal lives as things needed to be carefully administered using a range of tools and techniques they had learned from corporate life. As a result, their home lives became increasingly functional, but cold. 
 
  However, Gen Y and Z - raised to be comfortable in their individual spaces, live life to the fullest and fittest, approach work with passion — are making sure the workplace is an extension of their personal lives – casual, colourful, sunny and healthy! 
 
  We are moving to a culture that promotes employee happiness. Office schedules are relaxed to work around personal commitments, which is encouraged by organisations
  
 
  Modern office space will be organically in sync with the Gen Y worker – layouts will include relaxation, recreation rooms, have natural light, health food stations, fitness joints
  
 
 
 
