New Delhi: The Centre on Monday empowered the Supreme Court-mandated   to enforce the graded response action plan to fight bad air. This essentially means that Delhiites should brace for another round of   and other such measures, should the air quality remain at the 'emergency' level for 48 hours.

 A notification, entrusting the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority with the task of implementing the plan with immediate effect, was issued by the environment ministry.
 
 EPCA, comprising environmentalists and senior officials from different departments, may now even order a stop on all construction activity and close brick kilns and hot mix plants, if necessary. Besides, differential rates could be introduced for travel during off-peak hours to encourage use of public transport and parking fee hiked by 3-4 times, depending on the air quality. EPCA will have in place a task force to monitor the situation and advise on action to be taken.
 
 The notification, issued in accordance with a Supreme Court’s December 2016 order, gives legal backing to the plan, which was prepared by the  . “The notification basically gives the policy the force of a statute. Anyone can move the court to ensure its implementation or report non-compliance. Without the notification, it was just a policy statement. Now, authorities are bound to act on it,” said Ritwick Dutta, an environmental lawyer.
 
 The task force will coordinate with chief secretaries and respective state pollution control boards for action and receive periodic reports from them. The environment ministry is, meanwhile, working on its yearly calendar, which is to be implemented from March. “The rationale behind a yearly calendar is to focus on certain measures round the year so that pollution levels don’t reach emergency levels,” said a ministry official.
 
 EPCA will hold a meeting this week to brief state governments in NCR on the plan. Bhure lal, head of EPCA, on Monday wrote to chief secretaries of the states, giving them a heads-up on the notification.
 
 “We are not designing this action plan for an emergency. In fact, the focus will be on poor, very poor and severe air quality days so that we can avoid an emergency situation altogether. The task force will advise us on pollution levels and we will issue directions accordingly. We may call a meeting on Friday to brief top officials,” said Sunita Narain, member, EPCA.
 
 “CPCB will define whether it’s a public health emergency and also forecast any such episode three days in advance… I can expect it (emergency) to happen during Diwali and the crop-burning period. EPCA will direct chief secretaries to roll out the plan,” she said.
 
 Data for the period between October 1, 2016, and January 13, 2017, reveal that about 8% of the days fell in the “emergency” category, 15% in “severe” and 51% in the “very poor” category. In contrast, the figures were 33%, 19% and 36%, respectively, for 2015-16.
 
 “This winter, the mixing height has been better than the previous year. This is because of two reasons: one, wind speed has been higher and, two, there has been action on sources of pollution, such as trucks, waste burning and construction dust,” said Anumita Roy Chowdhury, head of CSE’s clean air campaign. The action plan comes two years after WHO’s urban air quality database found Delhi to have the highest PM2.5 levels globally.
 
 Sunil Dhaiya, campaigner,  , said: “We welcome the notification as a logical and a necessary step. Certain actions, such as higher parking charges, greater investment in public transport and pollution-free mobility, need to be in force through the year. A major shortcoming of the plan is that it doesn’t include other thermal power plants in the region apart from Badarpur.”
 
