AMRITSAR: It's 7:30 am on a chilly winter morning and the Congress's latest celebrity entrant,   is off for a day's campaigning in Amritsar. He is contesting from the  , a seat won by his wife   in 2012 who like him recently left the BJP and joined Congress. Getting off to an energetic start, he arrives in the sprawling Company Bagh park to meet morning walkers. Instantly, he's set upon by a mob eager to click selfies.

 These journalists will string me up upside down, he complains to his clutch of fans.What kind of response is he getting? “Just look around at them,“ he bellows “I will hit the Badals for a six.“ Not only does Sidhu need to win in Amritsar but the Congress as a whole needs to hit a lot of sixes in the entire Majha region if it is to stay ahead in the T20 match for Punjab.
 
 Punjab is divided into three main regions. Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Pathankot and Tarn Taran form the Majha region of Punjab. Of the 25 seats in Majha, in 2012 the Congress won just eight, the Akali-BJP com bine seventeen. While the two sides were locked in a neck and neck battle in the numerically larger Malwa belt, it was the Majha setback that consigned the Congress to another five years in the opposition. One key contributing factor was widespread rebellion in its ranks. The local Congress leadership insists that the party has learnt from its mistakes. “We are sweeping Majha this time,“ asserts Sunil Dutti, Congress candidate from Amritsar North whose own candidacy however has once again created a rebellion in the Amritsar ranks. This time he insists the Congress is no longer a divided house. “Yes there was infighting in the past but now we are mazboot.“
 
 Amarinder Singh, the Congress's de facto chief ministerial face, was the MP from Amritsar until he resigned two months ago. At 74, the Raja of Patiala knows that this is probably his last battle. He maintains that reports that the Congress factions are undermining each other is no longer the case. “We are united, there is no question of internal sabotage.“
 
 In Amritsar city, some mischievous posters have been put up announcing Sidhu as a future chief ministerial candidate. Captain Amarinder plays down any rivalry with the cricketer-neta who shares a common original home turf in Patiala. “Sidhu has joined us unconditionally, the rest is all baseless speculation,“ he says.
 
 At 53, Sidhu is the younger, more charismatic face, his TV profile gives him instant recognition. “Sidhu is the first preference for young people,“ says Prof. Jasbir Singh Sabar, former professor at Guru Nanak Dev University. The youth in particular seem attracted to the Sidhu persona. “If Sidhu's with Congress, then we are with Congress,“ says Harjit, a young entrepreneur. In Amritsar at least, Sidhu scores over Amarinder who is seen as an absentee MP.
 
 Amritsar district with eleven seats has a robust Punjabi Hindu-Sikh mix: in 2012, the BJP-Akalis were able to tap into the region's complex demography to their advantage. But the mantra of 'change' has pushed the ruling alliance on the defensive. The   has struggled to make an impact here, failing to win over Sidhu nor being able to offer a strong, credible Sikh face to attract the Panthic vote. Many of its candidates are young, first time politicians. “We represent badlav, change, not the Congress,“ claims AAP's Somnath Bharti campaigning in Pathankot. “ People want a paradigm shift, not just a change from Akalis to Congress. They are scared of the Akalis, but in their frank moments, they say jharoo chalayenge.“
 
 It is the AAP factor which has the Congress worried: is there a silent voter who will cut into the Congress vote in Majha, and will a possible divided vote work to the advantage of the Akalis? “ AAP is not a factor in Majha,“ claims Captain Amarinder, “ And the voters here want to teach the Akalis a lesson.“
 
 But the Congress must know it is fighting contemporary political history. Except Andhra Pradesh, there is no state in recent times where the Congress has made a comeback after losing two consecutive assembly elections. “I am a student of history, and we are going to make history in Punjab this time,“ says Captain Amarinder author of several books on military history. Clearly, this is a battle in which an ageing Congress general is hoping to script a famous victory all on his own. But without a triumph in Majha, there'll be no victory for the Congress.
 
