THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Works minister G Sudhakaran has convened a meeting of public works department officials and experts on Thursday to discuss the strengthening works of   at MC Road here. The bridge, which has been closed for repair works, will be opened for traffic only after six months.

  P K Aravindan, former professor of  , a video inspection of the well under the pier revealed it was totally shattered. “It was after watching footage that I suggested to restrict even two-wheelers,” he said.
 
  He further said due to the damage sustained by one of the two wells, the other has moved 25.5cm from its original position. “This has damaged the deck slab. A new foundation has to be constructed for the second pier. The deck slab must be supported with a steel structure temporarily during the construction works. The well, four piles, pile cap and pier must be constructed as in the case of a new bridge,” he said.
 
  The inspection has also detected damage in the third pier. “Though the condition is not as worse as that of the second pier, I have suggested strengthening the third pier too. Otherwise, the entire process will have to be repeated after 5-6 years,” Aravindan said.
 
  When asked about the reasons for the damage, he said multiple factors ranging from use of poor quality materials, water flow and sand mining could have led to the condition. 
 
 “There was a 5-metre deep sand bed at the time of construction, which is absent now. Poor quality M 10 concrete was used for construction. However, we can’t blame the PWD because there was not much awareness of raw material quality during that time,” he said.
 
  Aravindan said everything would be finalized only after the discussion with the minister.
 
  Meanwhile,   has made changes in the schedule of ordinary services to ease the difficulty being faced by commuters due to the closing of the bridge. 
 
 Senior KSRTC officials said that three trips of Kottarakkara-Enathu and two Enathu-Adoor services have been arranged in the morning and evening.
 
 
