NAGPUR: Almost 14% of the   (IMR) (below the age of 5 years) in the country is due to diarrhea. But the central government's initiative to launch the Rota Virus Vaccination (ROTAVAC) for   last year is step towards combating this mortality.

 "Launched in March 2016 the ROTAVAC is being introduced in the country in phases. It was launched initially in Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Odisha and is expected to cover Maharashtra in six months or so. It is expected to minimize the over 1 lakh deaths that occur due to diarrhea every year," said Dr Uday Bodhankar, senior paediatrician and president of Commonwealth Association for Health and Disability (COMHAD).
 
 Speaking to TOI about the national immunization programme on the occasion of World  , national president-elect of Indian Paediatric Association Santosh Soans said ideally the government should make this vaccine available to every child under the age of five years irrespective of their economic status. But reaching it every child in the below poverty line home is the need of the hour.
 
 Dr Bodhankar said that in recent past India has taken big strides under the Universal Immunization Programme (UIP) in which polio, measles, rubella and adult Japanese encephalitis have become the basic vaccines coming from the government programme. ROTAVAC is an addition to the UIP. The pentavalent vaccine under the UIP protects a child from 5 life-threatening diseases - Diphtheria, Pertussis, Tetanus, Hepatitis B and Hib. DPT (Diptheria+Pertussis+Tetanus) and Hep B are already part of routine immunization in India; Hib vaccine is a new addition. Together, the combination is called Pentavalent.
 
 Dr M S Rawat, former professor and head of the paediatrics at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) told TOI that ROTAVAC should be made available to every child under the age of five years. "The vaccine is already available in the private sector but is slightly expensive. Hence it should be brought under the national programme across the country at the earliest," he said.
 
 Dr Deepty Jain, professor and head of the paediatrics department at the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College (IGGMC) and Nagpur IAP president Dr Nilofar Mujawar, too support the views of Dr Bodhankar and wish Maharashtra is covered under the ROTAVAC in the second phase and should be available in medical colleges and corporation hospitals.
 
