Ludhiana: A high-level drama over shortage of funds postponed the Finance and Contracts Committee (F&CC) meeting in which senior deputy mayor Sunita Aggarwal, deputy mayor RD Sharma, and SAD councillor Jagbir Sokhi raised their voices and asked the mayor Harcharan Singh Gohalwaria not to clear new development works. However, Congress leaders said since many works related to wards of Congress councillors, therefore the SAD-BJP leaders had got the meeting postponed. 

 On Thursday evening, the meeting was called to clear around 146 development works of various nature, but when the meeting was postponed, all the proposals had been stayed. SAD-BJP leaders raised the issue that roads in the city were in a pathetic condition, and commuters were finding more potholes than roads while driving. Moreover, since previous development works had come to a complete halt, it was not wise to clear more works.
 
 Deputy mayor RD Sharma said MC had no funds to complete even routine development works, so there was no point in approving more works. He said they had asked the mayor to first arrange funds, and then they would give the approval for further development works. Echoing the same, Jagbir Sokhi said officials failed to maintain basic services like streetlights, water supply, and sewerage, so where was the need to put more proposals in F&CC meetings. He said officials were claiming they would get funds by month-end. Therefore, they had asked the mayor to postpone the meeting till the arrangement of funds.
 
 Meanwhile, Congress councillor Balkar Singh, an F&CC member, said: “I could not attend the meeting due to certain personal reasons, but this is not the right step to postpone the meeting due to development works being related to wards of Congress councillors.” He said once the term of the mayor got over, they would get their works done through the MC commissioner.
 
 However, Gohalwaria ruled out any controversy with Congress councillors, and said they were all of the opinion since development works had come to a halt after the Congress government rolled back funds under the Punjab Infrastructure Development Board (PIDB), so there was no scope for more works. He said they had kept their agendas pending till another meeting was fixed. 
 
 BOX
 
 TENDER FOR PARKING LOTS
 
 In the meeting, development works related to tubewells, parks, construction of roads, laying water supply lines, and chlorination of tubewells, but the major controversial issue was the allotment of a tender for seven parking lots in the city, and starting a parking fee at the Rose Garden parking lot. MC officials had put forward a proposal to float tenders for seven parking lots again, because in the last bid, a technical fault had created problems. However, decision on the issue remained pending.
 
 
