
 It happened over time. It's a major decision. Anger is just one part of it. If you ask a Naxalite, anger is a quotient, but there is an ideology that you believe in...

 
 
 There is a buffet of ideologies for me to choose from. I've been a fan of certain communist and socialist ideals. Some have failed, some have succeeded. I've lived long enough to understand where all they failed.
 
 
 
 Not necessarily. I may have to make some adjustments and come to the centre because people matter more. I am willing to serve, but I am still cooking.
 
 
 
 Politics is too big a game to feel the absence of a Kamal Haasan. And art is a bigger sea.
 
 
 
 Well, if I take up a position legally, I will have to. It will be painful. I will still be connected (to cinema) but won't be actively engaging in it because my commitment would be something else.
 
 
 
 Right now they are going deep right. I have been vociferous against government on things like beef. I used to eat beef, but I've stopped. That doesn't mean others shouldn't eat beef.
 
 
 
 If my ideologies are not hindered and if it is only about administration, there can be (collaboration). Somewhere you have to think about the welfare of the state. I don't know if they find my ideologies comfortable. There is no untouchability in politics, if it is for the good of the people.
 
 
 
 Being a rationalist, for me, doesn't mean destroying temples. You cannot eradicate bhakti overnight, it may happen in due course.
 
 
 
 It doesn't matter. Only that they do not hinder the path I have taken.I am against corruption. I won't have truck with corrupt people.There the uncompromising attitude will come in. That leaves me with very little choice.
 
 
 Reaching the poor. If it doesn't reach the last poor man, your constitution is wrong.
 
 
 
 Corruption is not confined to one person. Corruption starts with that man who takes Rs 5,000 for his vote. We have to make people understand and end corruption. We were once cannibals. Somebody was able to put sense into people and cannibalism abruptly stopped.
 
 
 
 No. When I say abruptly, I mean when you look at the long history, it was an abrupt end. Corruption cannot be stopped overnight. You can contain corruption and that's a beginning. I might be a rookie, but I am not naïve. Let me talk about my own industry... Where do I stop corruption? I said I will pay my taxes, I will not touch black money.
 
 
 
 Both have to be used in good measure. If compromise means I have to allow a little corruption, I will be uncompromising. That's like having fecal matter on the dinner plate.
 
 Once in politics, you will have to criticise some people -including probably   -with whom you have been friendly.
 
 Criticising doesn't mean insulting. It can be done constructively and with great poise. And that's what   and I have promised each other. We have different paths. We don't agree with each other even on the kind of films we do.
 
 
 
 No. It is very juvenile when media says I want to become the chief minister.
 
 
 
 It doesn't matter. I can be in the chorus line singing, if it is for the good of the people.
 
 
 
 There will be a time when people will say with pride that I stay in a village. So I think I will choose a rural area to contest, but one can never say.
 
 
 
 We are planning one. Now with so many media, you don't need movies to sell your political ideologies. As for political messages, 'Viswaroopam-2' has some, so does `Sabash Naidu'.
 
 
 
 
