AJMER: Bad times, it seems, have begun for   here as the   is looking for an alternative to   from highways, while on the other hand villages are witnessing agitations demanding to close down these shops leased by the   in the district.

 From Bandrasindiri to Beawar and from Kekeri to Sikar Highway, there are more than a dozen shops which have to be closed down after the directions by Supreme Court. “Bids for such shops on highways were very high in comparison to other shops in the district but this time the department is going to face heavy losses,” said an official source.
 
 The problem does not end here. The directions also say that no liquor shops should be allotted near the schools, temples or education institutes. “This needs to be worked on as new schools and temples have come up at many places and, therefore allotting at old locations is causing problem for the department,” the official further said.
 
  There are more than half a dozen villages in the district that are agitating and demanding closing of new allotted liquor shops.
 
 In Bijaynagar town people staged protest and warned the district administration that if liquor shops open in Shastri Colony or Subhash Nagar then they come out on roads to protest. “They assured us that there will be no liquor shops in these colonies, however, they have allotted place for two shops. We are now protesting against this,” said a resident of Shastri Colony.
 
 In Sarwar people came out on roads demanding closing of liquor shop at Vijaypath. The crowd consisted mostly of women. “Public women’s toilet is in front of that shop and it will be difficult for women to use the facility here,” said a protester. She said that the shop has been allocated near the vegetable market and therefore, it will not be possible for women to cross that road.
 
 Similarly, in Pisanghan village the residents have been continuously protesting to remove the liquor shop from the village. “The shop is located on Mavadiya Road and therefore it will be problem for residents to move freely after evening. Children going to school from that road will get a wrong message from such shops,” said a local resident.
 
 There are more than two dozen villages from where excise department is getting applications requesting them to change the location of liquor shops in their region. People from Ajmer city too are protesting the allocation of shops in some areas.
 
 
