Low cost airline IndiGo is the latest addition to the list of air carriers offering attractive air fares this season. It has now dropped fares as part of a promotional offer on select flights and is selling all-inclusive tickets from Rs. 777. 

 IndiGo's offer closes on Friday and is applicable for travel between 21 July 2017 and 20 September 2017. 
 
 However, the airline did not disclose the number of seats available under the promotional offer and said that seats are subject to availability, adding that it is valid on bookings made 15 days prior to travel. 
 
 As is the norm in case of most promotional offers by airlines, the lowest fare of Rs 777 offer is applicable on relatively shorter routes like Jammu-Srinagar.
 
 IndiGo on its website said that the promotional offer is valid only on select non-stop flights from Ahmedabad, Amritsar, Bagdogra, Bengaluru, Bhubaneswar, Chandigarh, Delhi, Goa, Guwahati, Hyderabad, Jammu, Kochi, Kolkata, Lucknow, Mumbai, Port Blair, Pune and Srinagar. 
 
 Ahmedabad-Delhi (Rs. 1881), Bhubaneswar-Delhi (Rs. 2600), Delhi-Bengaluru (Rs. 2,599), Delhi-Goa (Rs. 2,848), Delhi-Guwahati (Rs. 2,899) and Delhi-Mumbai (Rs. 1,999) are some of the other routes which come under the promotional sale. The website showed tickets available on Delhi-Mumbai route available for Rs. 1,999 for journey later this month.
 
 Indian skies have been locked in a pitched fare battle for the last couple of years as airlines try to woo customers with discounted fares on a regular basis. Analysts believe the stiff competition among airlines amid robust growth in the number of passengers is leading to lower fares. Domestic air passenger traffic rose 15.15 per cent to 91.34 lakh in April, according to data from aviation regulator   (Directorate General of Civil Aviation).
 
 Under the GST or Goods and Services Tax regime that is due to roll out from July 1, economy class air travel is set to become cheaper. The tax slab for economy air travel has been fixed at 5 per cent against the existing 6 per cent. However, business class tickets are expected to become more expensive it's been put under the tax bracket of 12 per cent compared to the existing nine per cent.
 
 
