CHANDIGARGH: A 25-year-old resident of Deep Complex, Hallomajra, was killed after she fell from a speeding auto-rickshaw near   light point on Tuesday. Rajni used to work in a private company in Chandigarh. Police said her head banged against the footpath, leading to her death. The auto sped away. Police have registered a case.

 35-year-old dies as bikes collide
 
 A collision between two motorcycles snuffed out the life of a 35-year-old man hailing from Uttar Pradesh near Hallomajra on Monday night. Ashok was declared brought dead at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32. Police arrested the accused, Gopal Chauhan, 35, a resident of Mohali. He was booked under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC.
 
 Car kills biker in  
 
 A resident of Panchkula’s Sector 26 was killed after a car hit his motorcycle near Sector 47 on Monday night. Rohtash Singh was going for some work when the car rammed into him from the rear. He was rushed to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, where doctors declared him brought dead. Police arrested the driver, Satish Kumar, a resident of Sector 47.
 
 Woman falls from scooter, car crushes her
 
 A 28-year-old woman succumbed to injures she received after a car hit her when she fell down from her scooter in a hit-and-run near sectors 36 and 37 light point on Tuesday. Nikita Negi hailed from Uttarakhand and was staying in Sector 41. She worked in the Sector 17 post office. She was going to her workplace when the accident took place. Police have registered a case under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC.
 
 Car injures biker
 
 A resident of   was injured after a car rammed into his motorcycle near the cremation ground in Daria village on Monday night. Naresh Kumar was going home when the accident took place. Police have registered a case under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) and 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the IPC.
 
 Car overturns near toll plaza,
 
 A car overturned near Chandimandir toll plaza on Tuesday morning, causing a traffic jam. Police removed the car with the help of a crane. A man in a car was rushed to  , Sector 6. He was discharged after being given medical treatment.
 
