KOCHI: A police investigation report in the actor rape case submitted at the Angamaly judicial first class magistrate court indicates that the visuals of the assault were handed over to Dileep. 

 According to court sources, the SIT has informed the court it was prime accused 'Pulsar' Suni who handed over the visuals to Dileep. The actor failed to pay the promised money forcing Suni to try to blackmail him, the SIT report said.
 
 The prosecution had submitted that it wanted to extend Dileep's custody as the phone was not yet traced. According to court sources, the police report maintains that they are yet to interrogate advocate Pratheesh Chacko, to whom Suni allegedly handed over the phone while trying to surrender at a court in Ernakulam. 
 
 The SIT reported that the visuals were subsequently handed over to Dileep after the phone was given to the lawyer. "They wanted the bail plea to be dismissed as the accused could influence Chacko," said the source.
 
 The prosecution has cited several reasons, including the possibility of the accused influencing witnesses and the safety of the assaulted actor for denying the bail.
 
 The court, meanwhile, has extended the police custody of Dileep till 5pm on Saturday and deferred considering the bail plea of the accused to post-lunch session on Saturday. The prosecution submitted that the actor was not fully cooperating with the investigation.
 
 Meanwhile, ED sleuths visited the Aluva police club on Friday. "The department hasn't recorded the actor's statement. The team visited the police club to meet with police officers," said a top official with the ED. According to ED sources, a probe has been initiated by the department into the actor's 'binami' land dealings. The accused was brought to court at around 10.45am from the Aluva police club as his custody period was set to end at 11am on Friday. The accused's lawyer maintained that the police was extending the custody period so as to force someone to become an approver as they were yet to find any. The defense lawyer reiterated that there was no direct mention of the actor's name in the statements of the survivor. Dileep, who kept a straight face throughout the procedure, maintained that the police did not misbehave with him at any point of time.
 
 The prosecution, meanwhile, maintained that a compact disk with the recording of the progress of the case will be presented before the court. Advocate B A Aloor, meanwhile, has registered a complaint at the Angamaly court requesting the magistrate to direct Suni's former counsel to hand over the chargesheet and other documents to him.
 
  
 
 
 In a separate development, a complaint has been filed against actor Kamal Hassan at Kalamassery police station by a   resident for revealing the name of the survivor.
 
  Kavya visits temple 
 
 Amid rumours that Dileep's wife and actor   and her mother would be questioned in connection with the case, Kavya's family members visited the Rajarajeswara Temple at Thaliparamba and offered 'ponninkudam', the main offering in the temple.
 
