NAGPUR: Mano Banna Pungati, one of the only literate villager from Dubbaguda in Gadchiroli district, has transformed the place by involving women into tsar  .

 The move has also helped generate a sizeable income for the villagers and making them self-reliant, thanks to the support she got from Pune based NGO BAIF Development Research Foundation.
 
 A resident of Dubbaguda village near Bhamragarh, Mano has studied till standard XII in  , which helped her make the village defecation-free and get a toilet constructed for each of the 13 houses there.
 
 “I am thankful to BAIF for the support. I got inspiration from the organization to work for uplifting my village through sericulture and also making it defection-free,” Mano told TOI.
 
 She was in the city for a workshop under the ‘promotion of largescale tsar sericulture-based livelihood project’ being run by BAIF in 107 villages in Vidarbha’s Gadchiroli, Chandrapur, Gondia and Bhandara districts. She made a powerpoint presentation of the success in her village in front of divisional commissioner Anoop Kumar. BAIF is running the project under Mahila Sashaktikaran Pariyojna (MKSP).
 
 Mano, like all other villagers, has about 3 acres and grows paddy on it. But sericulture has come as a boon to them. “Except for one family, all others have formed a self-help group where we pool in all the money and then distribute among ourselves as per our needs. It has really helped in the economic development of each family and the village as a whole. My husband Banna is also standard X pass and we both guide the villagers in running the project,” said Mano.
 
 Pawan Patidar, additional chief programme executive of the project, said though BAIF is only involving women in the process of developing cocoons from the Disease Free Layings (DFLs) or eggs which are bought by the contractors involved in silk industry, the organization plans to extend the project to tsar cloth making.
 
 “We gives eggs to the women on subsidized rates and the sale of cocoons for further processing is done by the   (CSB). But in case of crisis when the prices dip, we mediate between the women farmers and   for procurement of cocoons at suitable rates to avoid any loss to them,” said Patidar.
 
 The workshop was inaugurated by CSB director S V Naik from Bengaluru and the divisional commissioner. Those present on the occasion included D N Shinde of Maharashtra Institute of Technology Transfer for Rural Area, A M Gore, deputy director of department of sericulture, Uday Patil, deputy commissioner MNREGA and Dhananjay Jadhav, senior project officer of BAIF.
 
