NEW DELHI: Every time he steps out of his house,   wants to shout, “My name is Khan and I am not a terrorist.” No, he is not movie star Shah Rukh Khan’s fan. But after spending 14 years in jail for involvement in 19 cases of bombings in Delhi, Rohtak Sonepat and Ghaziabad before being acquitted of all charges, he constantly feels the needs to  . 

 That is why he can relate with Mohammed Rafiq Shah and Mohammed Hussain Fazli, who too spent 11 years in jail before their acquittal in the Sarojini Nagar bomb blast case on Thursday. “Just as there is a rehabilitation programme for terrorists who lay down arms, there should be one for people mistakenly branded as terrorists,” said Khan, 39. “Compensation alone does not restore the accused’s lost dignity.” Meeting TOI on a street in Chandni Chowk, Khan talks of how the wrongful confinement robbed him of his youth. “I was a teenager when I was arrested and an old man when I was released,” says Khan. While he was languishing in jail, the world was moving on, so much so that when he was released in January 2012, Khan encountered a different world. “I came out to find smartphones, the Delhi Metro and LED televisions,” he said. 
 
 Khan had been bundled into a police Gypsy van in February 1998 and led away to be coerced into signing some blank papers. These effectively sealed his fate. “I had heard about torture in police custody and seen it in movies, but to face it in real life was different,” he said with a shudder. He was accused of masterminding 17 low-intensity bomb blasts that occurred in Delhi and in neighbouring towns between December 1996 and December 1997. 
 
 As his hopes hurtled from case to case, his father, a toy store owner in Chandni Chowk, and his mother were ever there to encourage him in his isolation, despite themselves becoming social outcastes overnight in their Old Delhi community. Khan observed with regret that his father died of a liver ailment because he could not pay for medical treatment after spending everything he had on the lawyers. His widowed mother fought for him till his release. She passed away last year after a brain haemorrhage that left her paralysed and speech impaired. Out of prison, Khan picked up the shreds of his interrupted life, first marrying his childhood sweetheart. He has a three-year-old daughter, whom he fiercely protects from being exposed to his history. He also worked with some NGOs that provided rehabilitation to similarly affected prisoners. Khan is today involved with a NHRC project. 
 
 
