
 
  There were two events, four days apart. Two emotional leaders took centre-stage, one openly in tears and the other visibly moved.
  
  Both the events were adorned by pictures of their predecessors — a beaming J   in one and a much younger   in the other. Both the Dravidian political behemoths in   have new leaders: the ruling All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam ( ) has chosen Jayalalithaa’s close aide and confidante   as their general secretary, even if in the interim.
  
  The rival Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam ( ) has voted in MK  , son of party chief Karunanidhi, as their working president.
  
  Karunanidhi, 93 and unwell, continues to hold the post of president.
  
  "After Anna (CN Annadurai), MGR (MG Ramachandran) and Amma ( Jayalalithaa), there will be no other icon in the party," said Sasikala while addressing the general body at the AIADMK headquarters in Chennai on December 31.
  
  "The AIADMK will live on for 100 more years. The party will conduct itself with army-like discipline," she said. This was just after she tearfully recounted how she had devoted 33 years of her life to Jayalalithaa and how her demise, on December 5, had left a void in her life. Stalin too choked while accepting the reins of the party.
  
  "I am assuming office of the working president with a heavy heart as it is happening at a time when our party leader is not well." The next generation of leaders has taken charge in Tamil Nadu. And the politicking has begun albeit cautiously.
  
  
 
  Stalin takes charge of the party in his 50th year in politics. The 63-year-old is far from a novice to the political arena, having climbed the ranks from a student leader to deputy chief minister, under his father Karunanidhi during the DMK’s last term in power (2006-11), and now leader of the Opposition.
  
  Stalin has battled many — from quarrelsome siblings to powerful district leaders who were unwilling to work under him — to get to the top of the notoriously fractious DMK. In the past five years though, he has had a greater say in appointments in the party from the ground up.
  
  
 
  The DMK’s workhorses on the field are predominantly Stalin’s men. "There is no change in the DMK," said party spokesperson and Rajya Sabha MP TKS Elangovan.
  
  "The reins have not been transferred to someone else in the DMK. It is only an administrative arrangement as our leader is unwell. Stalin has been guided by two senior leaders who have been running the party for so long. It is like patting somebody to come up so that he is not left alone." Stalin’s elevation has been in the wings.
  
  "As far as Stalin is concerned, it is just dynastic politics," says C Lakshmanan, associate professor, Madras Institute of Development Studies (MIDS).
  
  "The only good thing is that he was groomed for the post for many years. He rose up the ranks. But at the end of the day, he had an advantage simply because he is Karunanidhi’s son. It is an undemocratic process."
  
  
  Sasikala, meanwhile, has been forced into the limelight after the death of Jayalalithaa. She lived with Jayalalithaa since she was 29 years old, cared for her and ran her household as the charismatic politician attended to issues of state.
  
  Apart from a couple of instances when Sasikala was expelled from Jayalalithaa’s Poes Garden home and later recalled, the two remained close friends. They were also named as co-conspirators in a series of corruption cases, of which one is awaiting orders from the Supreme Court.
  
  Senior party leaders say that Sasikala is best equipped to head the party in the absence of a mass leader.
  
  "She has been with Amma for many years and was helping her run the administration. It is no secret," says a senior party leader on condition of anonymity. "She will make a very good administrator as she knew Amma’s mind better than all of us."
  
  Three weeks after Jayalalithaa passed away, Sasikala became general secretary of the party. Two days later, senior party leader and deputy speaker of the Lok Sabha M Thambidurai wrote a letter, urging Chinnamma (or little mother, as Sasikala is known) to take over as chief minister in place of  . The well-orchestrated transition came as a shock to the AIADMK cadre, who had just lost a cult leader.
  
  Posters in support of Chinnamma, which sprang up all over the state, were defaced or torn, seemingly by party cadre. "It is the DMK that is doing this to create confusion in our party," said C Ponnaiyan, spokesperson for the AIADMK.
  
  "Our party stands united." It is this, among many other problems, say analysts, that Sasikala will find as her biggest challenge. "There seems to be discontent among the cadre, which is revealed by anecdotal evidence," says RK Radhakrishnan, senior journalist and political analyst.
  
  "How soon she surmounts this problem is something we need to wait and watch. After 1987, when MGR died, there was no animosity towards either Janaki or Jaya. But now Sasikala seems to have incurred the animosity of the cadre. And this is mainly due to the mystery surrounding Jaya’s hospitalisation and her last days."
  
  Despite the rumblings of dissent, the party, for now, is firmly under Sasikala’s control. "We should not underestimate her," says political analyst Aazhi Senthilnathan. "She has taken many decisions even when Jayalalithaa was alive. Now she is doing it openly. She did not have the chair then, now she has the chair."
  
  
 
  The question though, according to analysts, is a more basic one: Can the democratic process be rescued under the new leadership? "Choosing the head of a party requires a process or a system that is democratic," says political analyst Lakshmanan.
  
  "In Stalin’s case this has happened to some extent. In Sasikala’s case, not at all." Senthilnathan agrees that democratic processes in both the parties would take a hit under the new leaders and that Dravidian politics could change under them, affecting even the governance of the state.
  
  "Neither Stalin nor Sasikala needs to continue the tradition of a Dravidian leader as we are witnessing the decline of traditional Dravidian politics in the state," he said.
  
  "They
  both want autocratic parties with no challenges to their leadership. The typical Dravidian culture does not exist anymore. Dravidian politics had a set of political goals over the years — separate statehood, language politics, women empowerment, reservation, to name a few. But we cannot say whether the parties will pursue these agendas. There will be a period of some confusion for some time until a real challenger arises."
  
  The DMK is adopting a wait-and-watch strategy vis-a-vis Sasikala, a relatively unknown politician. "As an outsider observing the AIADMK, I have seen the functioning of many senior leaders in their party," says Elangovan of the DMK.
  
  "There are more experienced leaders in the party like Panruti Ramachandran and Ponnaiyan who were originally in the DMK and later switched to MGR. But since power centres around Sasikala, they have rallied around her. She has not proved her mettle as a leader or a politician. It has to be seen."
  
  Senior journalist Radhakrishnan says that the status quo will continue as far as political rhetoric and administration is concerned. He says both Sasikala and Stalin will try to adopt the strategies of Karunanidhi and Jayalalithaa, which more often than not had worked for both parties. Their first challenge will be to consolidate positions within the party.
  
  While for Stalin, this is not a huge challenge; for Sasikala, taking the cadre along seems to be a huge problem.
  
  "Stalin is much better placed in the party, but he is not known to take everybody along. Anyone who doesn’t agree with his view has been shunted out of the party," says Radhakrishnan, wondering if the space for dissent in the DMK will shrink under the new leader.
  
  He adds that Sasikala faces larger challenges than Stalin. "An additional challenge for Sasikala will be to prove that the government is actually responsive to the people post Jayalalithaa," he says.
  
  For now, the writing is on the wall. Tread with caution is the mantra for both, before carving out each one’s individual niche. "We are still witnessing a challenging period for Dravidian politics, maybe even a declining stage," says Senthilnathan.
  
  "It is not a post-Dravidian era yet. It will run its present course for the next decade and a half. When you have no alternative to the DMK or the AIADMK in the near future, there can only be a continuation of the existing system."
  
  Lakshmanan says it could get worse. "The people are not politicised in Tamil Nadu," he says, arguing that politicians — instead of adhering to law, providing people with the basics of a good life and using their office for public good — are still trying to make the electorate ardent fans or followers.
  
  "We are tuned to a bhakt culture, a feudal mode of thinking, a giver-and-receiver kind of relationship with our leaders. I expect the coming days to get worse."
  
  
  
