KOLHAPUR: The civic body has proposed a 30% hike in   rates — first time in last three years. The proposal drafted by the water supply department will be tabled in the next general body meeting to be held later this month for approval.

 The hike has been proposed as officials claim the rates charged by the   ( ) are comparatively lower than the rates fixed by Maharashtra   (MJP) for water supply in urban areas.
 
 The MJP has fixed a price of Rs 25 per 1,000 litre of drinking water. However, the KMC is charging around Rs 16 to Rs 22 per 1,000 litre supplied to various consumers, including households and commercial units.
 
 The civic body also claims that since there has been no hike in water tax for the past three years and considering average increase in the expenses by around 10% every year, the 30% hike in water tax is justified.
 
 Giving details,  , KMC chief hydraulic engineer, said, “The state audit report of KMC's finances had suggested increase in water tax to meet the expenses incurred on the maintenance and repairs of the system. After the tax hike is approved, the KMC can generate additional Rs 8 crore every year. According to our estimate, considering the expenses for next year, the hike will be no gain-no loss for the KMC. The expenses planned for repairing leakages, lay new pipelines and replace the old ones, management of the staff and increase in the chemical, electrical and irrigation bills are high.”
 
 For the current financial year, the KMC has set a target of Rs 42 crore from water tax collection and is expecting a shortfall of Rs 4 crore. The KMC has estimated that once the water tax hike is approved they have to revise the target to Rs 50.35 crore for the next financial year and half of the amount will be generated from the household connection holders.
 
 “The KMC is facing a deficit of around Rs 13 crore in water supply management as expenses are on the higher side. The tax collected by other departments is utilised to run the water supply system,” claimed the official.
 
 “The proposed water tax hike is more for those consumers who utilise more than 40,000 litre of water every two months. For commercial connection the hike is Rs 5 and for industrial use the hike is Rs 10 per 1,000 litre. We have initiated action against large defaulters to recover dues for this year,” said Kulkarni.
 
 The KMC has started spot billing method to issue water tax bills despite opposition. However, the officials claim that owing to initial glitches they won’t be able to achieve the target of Rs 42 crore.
 
 
