NAGPUR: The one-year-old Indian   (IIIT) in the city has set bigger sight for the coming years. It has planned to set up its permanent campus that can accommodate 20,000 students along with   on Wardha. The new campus would also have big   and seven hostel blocks.

 Under its mentor director   (also VNIT director), the blueprint of entire plan is ready and they are just waiting for the formal approval from its Board of Governors (BOG). A model of new state-of-the-art campus is placed at the entrance of its makeshift premises at BSNL’s Regional Training Centre (RTTC). 
 
 “We’ve designed our campus in such a way that it could accommodate 20,000 students. Though it’s spread over 98 acres, we would be focusing on vertical expansion so that we could expand the facilities later for more number of students,” IIIT-N associated dean Ashwin Kothari told TOI.
 
 Maharashtra government allotted 100 acres behind Sutgirni at Waranga on Wardha Road to the premier institution for setting up its permanent campus. 
 
 “Even though we’re allotted huge area, our construction would be limited. We plan to have seven multi-storied buildings for hostels with a capacity to accommodate 1,000 students each. We would offer hi-tech facilities like green buildings with solar rooftops, a sewage treatment plant (STP) to recycle water, and a mega mess, just like in VNIT and central library,” dean said.
 
 The new premises would have three towers which would be offered for IT and software companies for setting up their units. “Our students would get hands on training in these companies while pursuing education. Even companies would get benefit of getting trained manpower. Their top officials could be invited to teach the students as visiting faculty. Their help could be sought while designing the curriculum. Being in same premises would be convenient for both of them,” the dean informed.
 
 The IIIT-N administration is leaving no stone unturned in providing good facilities to the students in its temporary campus as well. Besides hostels and sporting facilities, they were offered eight laboratories, sound proof auditorium, a dark room, cafeteria and about 100 computer terminals with four servers.
 
 “We’ve installed these equipment on temporary basis and those could be removed and relocated at new campus with little efforts. We also have some of costly equipment like spectrum analyser. Currently, we’ve seven full-time faculty while 10-12 teachers are from VNIT, who’re also highly experienced,” Kothari said.
 
 Some of its faculties had already started research on various projects. Atish Daryapurkar received grants of Rs60 lakh for his project.
 
 Last year, only 51 seats could be filled up out of 60, despite the fact that admissions were closed in second round itself. It was because some students withdrew after getting admissions in IITs or NITs. Among them, maximum are from Nagpur and others cities in Vidarbha.
 
 TOI is closely tracking the IIIT-N’s growth, right from the time it was first conceptualized to its starting operations last year. On April 12, 2008, it had first reported about Union HRD ministry's decision to set up IIIT taken during the 11th Five Year Plan (2007-12) to address the challenges faced by the Indian IT industry and growth of the domestic IT market.
 
 Accordingly, it contemplated to set up 20 IIITs on the private public partnership (PPP) in the country where the central and state along with the industry will be stakeholders. Currently, Allahabad, Gwalior, Jabalpur, and Kancheepuram are having centre-sponsored IIIT while three others in Hyderabad, Kerala and Bangalore are sponsored by the respective states on PPP models. The centre provided Rs100 crore, state Rs35 crore while Rs20 crore were pumped in by the private partner for setting up the centrally-sponsored institution.
 
