NAGPUR: The three Telangana-based   leaf contractors, intercepted by   police on Alapalli Road with Rs75 lakh cash on Tuesday, also had over 7,000 pamphlets in their possession. The contractors were supposed to hand over the literature to a top Naxalite for distribution among the tribals during the ongoing observation of 50 years of the   uprising between May 23 and 29 in Gadchiroli district.

 The Aheri police team also unearthed Rs1.1 crore from the contractors’ apartment at Botlacheru near Aheri. Investigators are now trying to find out from where the pamphlets were printed. The police are recovering the call detail records of the contractors and plan to place some of their phone contacts under surveillance.
 
 A senior officer said the pamphlets were in Marathi. “The content of the pamphlets reflected the Naxalites’ ploy to exploit the sentiments of the Naxalbari movement from where the idea of their outfit had originated,” he said. “The Leftist rebels are trying to rope in mass support, replenish their lost manpower strength and give an impetus to their sagging movement by highlighting the uprising of peasants and landless labourers in West Bengal’s Naxalbari village in the 1960s,” said the officer.
 
 It has been reliably learnt that the three arrested tendu contractors — Pahadiya Tapla (35), Ravi Tankam (45) and Nagraj Samayya Putta (37) — were set to meet top Naxalite Nandu who is now promoted to the rank of divisional committee member. The delivery was set to take place at Korchepalli near Damrancha in south Gadchiroli. The contractors, who have been working in the district for more than a decade now, worked for Warangal-based Khalil-ur Rehman. The police had already got a strong hint regarding ‘Nagraj’ contractor taking cash with him for the Naxalites and this had prompted security forces to plan a trap.
 
 Naxalites extort substantial amounts, running into crores of rupees, from tendu leaf contractors every year as ‘protection money,’ despite repeated warnings from police department.
 
 Additional SP, Aheri, R Raja said interrogation with the contractors was underway. “It seems that the three were supposed to distribute the additional cash to other formations too,” he said. “We have also summoned the employer of the three contractors (Rehman),” he said. The tendu contractors are in custody of Aheri police till May 28.
 
 In recent time, the Naxalite movement in Gadchiroli has suffered many setbacks. Demonetization also crippled their monetary strength, said sources. The rebels had been lying low but they recently carried out a powerful landmine blast at Bhamragarh in which one policeman was killed and 23 were left injured.
 
 In February, contractor Irpa Usendi was nabbed by   police at Burgi while travelling with Rs four lakh cash. Usendi, who was one of the two labour contractors at Surjagarh mines, had come under limelight after the Naxalites had torched 80 vehicles at the project site in December last year. As per police records, Usendi is also cousin of top Naxal cadre of south Gadchiroli Sainath.
 
