Nagpur: The   Group would be investing Rs250 crore in its Nagpur   which it plans to complete in about five years. It would also be keeping 25% seats reserved for Nagpur domicile students who would be getting 15% concessions in fees, across all courses. 

 The group plans to open the off-campus of ‘Symbiosis International University (SIU)’ at the 75-acre land in Wathoda, allotted by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC).
 
 The ground-breaking ceremony would be performed on Friday at its proposed campus in Wathoda at 10am. A plethora of dignitaries, including chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, union minister Nitin Gadkari, education minister Vinod Tawde, guardian minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule, mayor Pravin Datke, Nagpur University VC Siddarthavinayaka Kane and SIU chancellor SB Mujumdar, Rajiv Yeravdekar and Bhama Venkatramani, would grace the event.
 
 “This is first time in our 45-year history that we would be reserving seats and also granting concession on merit,” principal director Vidya Yeravadekar said on Thursday. 
 
 NMC commissioner Shravan Hardikar, SIU vice chancellor Rajani Gupte, faculty of management dean R Raman, faculty of law dean Shashikala Gurpur, Symbiosis Institute of Design director Vinay Mundada, and others accompanied her.
 
 TOI, on December 30, had reported about the well-known group from Pune setting up its campus at Wathoda. However, the group would require MHRD’s nod to start its various courses here. It plans to offer multidisciplinary courses, which are extremely popular among the students in entire country like management, law, architecture, and interior design besides entrepreneurship and innovation.
 
 “We actually planned to commence operations in 2019, but if NMC clears all our proposals, we could even begin MBA course in 2018 itself,” Yeravadekar said.
 
 SIU plans to open a new wing of ‘School of Planning and Architecture’ which is not there at its Pune campus. “It would be completely new establishment which would be a centre of excellence,” the director added.
 
 SIU would also have ‘Symbiosis Centre for entrepreneurship and Incubation’ where short term courses would be offered to the candidates to help them get jobs in micro industries spread across length and breadth of Vidarbha. 
 
 “They would be offered sandwich courses where the focus would be on practical training. We plan to offer BBA in tourism management and BBA in agro-tourism. We would introduce specialized courses for this region like in forestry, mining, food processing, textiles and also in logistics as Nagpur is emerging as big hub,” said Yeravadekar.
 
 Other group office-bearers heaped praises on Nagpur stating that it would be next big emerging city. They said with premier institutions like IIM, IIIT and MNLU setting up their campuses here, it would also attract industries just like what happened in Pune.
 
 
