CHENNAI: More than 50% of Class 5 students and about 30% of Class 8 students in rural   cannot read Class 2 level Tamil text. While English skills of the state's students have come under the radar many times, the latest Annual Status of Education Report (ASER) shows that a larger percentage of students have fared better in reading English letters compared to Tamil letters.

 Among the 33,075 students surveyed across 31 districts in rural TN, the report released by Pratham, an NGO, shows the overall reading skills of students, even at the Class 8 level, is grossly inadequate.
 
 While the performance of government and private school children in reading Tamil is not impressive, government high school students have improved in reading Tamil text compared to their private school counterparts. This trend, experts say, has been noticed for a few years now, with more students from government schools to private ones. Given that Tamil is the medium of instruction in government schools and it is English in private schools, it is understandable that the Tamil reading skills of private school students are poor, but the overall findings paint a dismal picture, they add. The poor reading skills, educationists fear, will be a s big hurdle for students as they go up the academic ladder. “When children can read, they can make so much more a sense of the content. The reading skills have been poor for some years now but the main issue is that the government brushes it aside or tries to hide it instead of making a noise about it. They should make so much noise that teachers too become conscious of the need to address the issue seriously,“ said  , director of coaching centre Ahaguru and founder of Aid India, which deals with educating students from rural backgrounds.
 
 The main problem, he says, is the lack of focus in the teaching methodology being adopted. What is needed is quickly assessing the levels at which the children are and training them to move to the next level. Activity based learning formats let a child do his/her own thing with no real push on `progress'.
 
 After-school programmes too are known to help students pick up reading skills.Private schools have little incentive to improve themselves. But if government schools start taking the issue seriously and take steps to improve, private schools will be forced to follow suit, said experts.
 
