HYDERABAD: In a few months from now, Telangana could be  . This is because Telangana chief minister   is firm on providing livelihood to the   and towards that end, wants to distribute pigs spending Rs 900 crore to members of this community so that they can rear them and also turn Telangana into a major  , popularly called pork.

 After taking steps to rehabilitate half a dozen communities such as weavers, fisher men, Yadavs, Kurmas, was hermen and Gouds with   costing hund reds of crores of rupees, the plan to provide pigs on a mas sive scale to the Erukala community is the latest initative of the TRS government. Animal husbandry minister   is gung-ho about the plans of the government to distribute at least Rs 900 crore worth pigs among the community. The government has decided to distribute one unit of animals comprising five female and a male pig to about 1.20 lakh Erukala families. Each unit is likely to cost Rs 75,000. “It is probably the first time that Erukula community leaders were invited for a meeting in the Secretariat and told about the government's decision. This community has been neglected by successive governments and now the chief minister wants to uplift the community by providing them with self-employment opportunities. Distribution of pigs is one such scheme,“ minister Talasani told STOI on Saturday .
 
 The minister said pork has good demand in neighbouring Tamil Nadu, Kerala and the northeastern states. “I have asked officials to also find out what variety of pork is liked in foreign countries so that we can supply even that breed of pigs so that the pork can be exported,“ the minister said. At present, in India, pork production is concentrated mainly in the states of Uttar Pradesh (30%), north-eastern states (25%), Bihar (15%), Bengal (6%), Karnataka (4%), Jharkhand (4%), and Kerala (3%).
 
 Officials of the animal husbandry department have been told to prepare modalities of the scheme with focus on rearing of pigs in “hygienic and farm-type environment“ and not the traditional way of leaving the swines loose in the villages. Animal husbandry director D Venkateshwarlu said the apprehensions of pig being a carrier of swine flu virus is a thing of the past. “We want to discourage rearing of pigs the traditional way. There is no scope for pigs being let loose in habitations now that the Swachh Bharat campaign has been launched. We are planning for a farm-type rearing of pigs where farms would be set up outside villages with water supply and feed being given in addition to regular visits by veterinary doctors,“ he said.
 
 Animal husbandry deputy director Jagannatha Chary said each female pig gives birth to between 9 to 12 piglets and the gestation period is 115 days. “It will a major source of economic activity for the Erukala community who have been rearing pigs since generations. We are planning to distribute Yorkshire breed pigs as its pork has demand even in international market. Each pig will give a maximum of 35 kg pork,“ he added.
 
