Safety and security don’t just happen, they are the result of collective consensus and public investment. We owe our children, the most vulnerable citizens in our society, a life free of violence and fear’ — said the late South African activist  . However, promising children a safe environment has increasingly become difficult in the times that we live today. Repeated incidents of  , rape, trafficking and kidnapping have left parents across the country helpless. The latest incident of a seven-year-old boy, Pradhyuman Thakur found with this throat slit in a school toilet in Gurugram after an alleged sexual attempt by the bus conductor has put them on high alert. 
Anuradha Vyas, 34, is one such parent. Between being glued to the television for the latest update on the case and having sleepless nights, tossing around for solutions to worst case scenarios, she decided that she had to do more than just teach about the good-touch, bad touch to her nine-year-old daughter, Preetha. One of the first things she did is to share a password with her. “I told her that should anyone approach her, offer her sweets or take her home (or anywhere else) by taking our names, she should ask for the password,” says Anuradha, adding that she’s not stopping at that. She and her husband, Aditya plan to invent more such code words and signs to help her daughter stave off predators.
 Like her, there are many parents out there, who are doing the same. They have now taken it upon themselves to train their kids to be alert and instill strength and confidence in them. We spoke to some of them, who shared the new strategies they have adopted to make their children alert about the monsters out there. 
 
 
 Children are easy targets as they are innocent, vulnerable and trust anyone easily.  , a   and mother of two daughters, including a five-year-old says, “If a stranger offers kids a chocolate, they tend to accept it easily. So, we need to condition kids to refuse goodies from strangers. I tell them that I will give them whatever they want, but not to take anything from an outsider. I try not to tell them too many negative things as it may instill fear in their minds. It may also prevent them from growing up into healthy and independent individuals.” Seconding Aparna, Apeksha Kanchan, mother of two, adds, “We also tell them that mummy-daddy will never change their mobile numbers without informing them. Every time we visit a crowded 
 place, we first mark a place and show it to them so that they can reach it in case we get separated.”
 
 
 Just knowing about good-touch and bad-touch is not enough, says Mansi S, a teacher, who’s taught her eight-year-old boy to use force if necessary. “I have told my son to shout loudly if anyone tries to hold him by force. In fact, we have practised it at home too. We have demonstrated the ways he can resist when he’s held by force or ambushed. I have also told him to bite that person’s hand and run away from the scene when he gets distracted.” Deepesh Seth, a businessman and father of a six-year-old boy, says, “I had seen a video where they teach kids about the danger points — chest, between the legs and bottom; if anyone touches at any of these points, they need to shout the loudest, run to a safe place, preferably a crowded area and tell an older, trustworthy person about the incident. I have shown the video to my child and we repeat the instructions to him too.”
 
 
 While the education system may or may not include it in the curriculum, parents have begun to realise the importance of self defence. Says Rachana Srivastav, mother to two toddlers, “Self-defence classes should be made mandatory in school, just like they have art, music and dance classes. It should be part of the syllabus, where they begin training for it from the age of five.” 
 When they had to pick between karate and bharatnatyam, parents of eight-year-old Ishita decided to enroll her in the former. Tanuja M, the mother, explains the reasons for making that choice, “We were waiting for her to turn eight, so that she could start learning bharatnatyam. But when we took her to the classes, we saw that they offered coaching in karate too. We would have liked her to do both, but the timings clashed, so we decided that the need of the hour is to make her learn self -defence. Besides, I have seen kids, who learn karate are alert and have a positive attitude towards fitness. My daughter can take up a dancing course some other time.”
 
 
 A Bandra-based professional make-up artiste, Amrin Mukhi usually drops her kids to school in her car. Just as she was was thinking of sending her young ones via school bus, reasoning that she will save time which would help her finish other chores, the horrific incident made her change her plans. She says, “I spend around two-and-a-half hours dropping and picking up my two kids and was thinking of sending them by a school bus. But after these reports, I do not have the heart to even think about a school bus. After the incident in Delhi, this whole topic lays heavy on other parents as well. In fact, most of the conversations on parents’ WhatsApp groups are about how can we make sure our kids are safe in school.” One such message with a warning about group of child traffickers on the prowl has gone viral among school groups. “On September 12, we had an incident in our society, wherein a stranger entered our building, befriended some children and left after taking pictures of some 5-6 year olds from our building. We are shocked that he managed to do so inspite of the presence of many other older kids and nannies. Thankfully one of the older kids spoke about it to his parents at night. When they passed on the message, the other kids also confirmed the same. This is very unnerving,” states the message. “I thought it’s my duty to keep you informed so that you are alert and can ensure the safety of your children. You would agree that once someone has taken the picture of your child, it won’t take too long to forge an ID card and fetch any child from the bus or school premises. Our children need to know that NO MATTER WHAT, they need to keep away from strangers and let us know if any stranger has approached them,” concluded the message.
 
 
 Whenever parents get time with their kids, they need to talk to them about their day and how it went. They should not hesitate to share and address any untoward happening. Arpita Singh, mother to a five-year-old, says, “Gone are the days when we asked kids just about their studies in school and homework. Now, we need to ask them if anyone made them uncomfortable. Or when the bus driver spoke to you, was anyone else present in the room? We need to assure them to not to be afraid of anyone. They need to be bold and be able to speak up against anything wrong and confide in their parents.” 
 Vaidehi Bapat, a homemaker, says, “Parents should talk to kids about things that might happen when they are on their own outside home. Children should be able to share incidents that make them uncomfortable with their parents, who in turn should believe, even if the perpetrator is known to them.” Parents should bridge the gap between their kids and themselves by having a healthy environment at home. Says Swamini Savant, mother to a five-year-old, “We should make them realise that their parents are always there to help them irrelevant of any circumstances. If our child believes in us, he won’t be afraid of anyone.”
 
 
 Kailash Satyarthi, Nobel laureate and child rights activist, has declared a war against rape of children and kicked off ‘Bharat Yatra’ against trafficking and sexual abuse of children from Kanyakumari on September 11. Touted to be the world’s largest march, the month-long yatra will culminate in New Delhi on October 16. “The age of rape victims is getting lower and the heinous crime is getting even more horrific as the victims are being murdered, the time for talk and preaching is over,” Satyarthi reportedly said, attacking the ‘moral epidemic’ in the country. Lakhs of children from across the country are expected to take part in the march. 
  
  
 
 
 Actress Tara Sharma Saluja, whose talk show deals with children and family issues, suggests that parents should have regular discussions with their kids, without causing panic in their impressionable minds. Says Tara, “Good health and security of our kids is the biggest priority of every parent. This recent spate of horrific incidents is concerning and as parents, both Roopak (her husband) and I have regular chats with our sons about safety, without making it too graphic and scary for them. From a young age, we have told our kids never to accept anything from strangers. Unfortunately, sometimes it’s not just strangers but known people who may pose as a threat, so we are very particular about trusting the kids with only a handful of people.” She agrees that parents can’t be with their kids all the time but can equip them with safety guidelines and ensure that these measures are met. 
 She adds that awareness also play a big role. “Kids should be educated about good-touch and bad-touch. Communication is key, so they must always talk to their parents if they have any concerns about anyone behaving oddly with them. And schools should have safety measures like scannable ID cards and CCTV cameras. On a wider scale, we must emphasise on safety at grassroots level, so that perpetrators are aware of severe consequences.” 
 
 
