CHENNAI:   (CCB) has booked actor-turned politician   on charges of cheating a   of Indian origin to the tune of Rs 3 crore. Police said Ritheesh had promised   a lucrative business deal and transfer of ownership of a plot of land three years ago.

 An FIR was registered based on a complaint filed by Athinarayanan with CCB police. The Madras high court had already issued an order last month directing the police to probe into the case. 
 
 Police sources said Athinarayanan had moved to Chennai from the US on a doctor’s advice after his son fell ill in 2014. The man, who was running a consultancy in the US, had saved around Rs 3 crore. After reaching Chennai, the complainant was introduced to Ritheesh, then an MP, by a common friend. The two spoke about varied business interests. According to the FIR, Ritheesh told Athinarayanan that he possessed a huge plot of land in Sriperumbudur where they can set up a business venture. He also told to the complainant that he had signed business contracts on iron and steel ventures, and for sand quarrying with a company in Kerala.
 
 In the first week of January 2014, Ritheesh had taken Athinarayanan to New Delhi and introduced him to two MPs from Delhi and Andhra Pradesh. Ritheesh introduced them to the complainant to flaunt his political clout, said police. Later, the same month, Ritheesh had asked Athinarayanan for money saying it had to be invested in a contract with a company. He promised Athinarayanan double returns in less than three years. Ritheesh said he would transfer the ownership of a few plots of land registered in his name to Athinarayanan. He later took the complainant to Sriperumbudur where he showed him a vast stretch of land claiming to be his. To prove the ownership he handed over a huge bunch of papers which, the complainant said later, were allegedly forged.
 
 Believing this, Athinarayanan paid the money which was never returned to him despite several attempts. However, Ritheesh had given three cheques of Rs 1 crore each to the victim which bounced. Following this, Athinarayanan filed a complaint. The case is being heard at the Poonamallee court.
 
