State-run engineering major   has emerged the lowest bidder in the tender to build a 2,400-MW joint NTPC-Jharkhand government power plant, surprising the industry with its aggressive offer.
 
  BHEL beat Larsen & Toubro and Korea's Doosan, which were eyeing the contract which includes engineering, procurement and construction of three 800 MW units coal-fired power plant being built by   and the Patratu Thermal Power Station.The project was estimated to be worth around Rs 14,000 crore, but BHEL's is slated to win it with the lowest bid of Rs 11,628 crore, three sources in the know told ET.
  
  "BHEL's bid is remarkably low as steel prices have gone up almost 20% in the last two quarters and the pro ject also includes air pollution control system, which will make it expensive. The industry did not expect the bids to be cheaper than Rs 6 crore per megawatt," said a top executive from a power company that was not in the race for the project.
  
  BHEL's bid was worth Rs 11,628 crore translating into Rs 4.8 crore per MW. It is 13.7 per cent cheaper than L&T's Rs 13,220 crore. Doosan's bid was significantly higher at Rs 22,792 crore, sources said.
  
  The companies were keen to bag this project as it was one of the rare active bids in the beleaguered thermal power sector, where generators are not taking up new projects due to lack of demand from state-run power distri bution companies. With few major investments in the conventional power sector, companies such as BHEL, L&T and   have been left with weak order pipelines and low capacity utilisation of 25-30 per cent.
  
  
  
  
  While the low bid will benefit NTPC, some industry executives raised concerns over BHEL's ability to execute the project at such low margins.
  
  "BHEL's bid does not factor in the current input cost, let alone the likely increase in costs going ahead," another senior industry executive said.
  
  NTPC declined to comment since it has not yet made a formal announcement. BHEL could not be reached for a response.
  
  In a report last month, Axis Securities said that on a like-for-like basis, boiler and turbine-generator pricing has increased by 15 per cent over the past 12 months due to "return of rational biding". 
