AHMEDABAD: On Monday, Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) claimed that the 153 private and government hospitals in the city had reported only 22 dengue cases between June 1 and July 15. When TOI contacted three AMC-run and two government civil hospitals, the actual number turned out to be 113.

  AMC under-reporting dengue cases can have disastrous implications for the health of unaware citizens. Such under-reporting does not augur well for a city that has reported the country’s first three Zika virus cases. These cases also came into the public domain only when the   published the information. The dengue, Zika and chikunguniya viruses are all spread by the Aedes aegypti mosquito. 
 
 Amdavadis can fight the Aedes aegypti menace only if government bodies are transparent about actual dengue cases. According to the AMC’s Monday press release, there were just 22 cases of dengue in June (16 cases) and July (6 cases till July 15), while the civic body-run and two civil hospitals told TOI that there were 113 cases till July 17. These include 88 cases (51 cases in June and 37 till July 17) cases from civic body-run hospitals namely VS, LG and Shardaben hospitals and 25 cases (13 in June and 12 till July 17) from Civil Hospitals at   and Sola.
 
 Bhavin Solanki, medical officer of AMC’s health department, said, “It takes us five to seven days after we receive cases to evaluate and finalize the numbers. We are yet to evaluate and confirm certain cases that hospitals have reported earlier.” In fact, a random check at two private hospitals in the city, Shalby and Apollo hospitals, revealed some six cases of dengue.
 
 Dr V K Kohli, an assistant entomologist with AMC, said, “The incubation period for Aedes aegypti mosquito bites is three to ten days. This means that three to ten days after the patient suffers a mosquito bite, they start showing symptoms of vector infection.” This clearly indicates that cases reported in June as well as July were caused due to mosquito bites in June and July itself.
 
 When asked if blood samples of patients testing negative for dengue are sent for Zika testing, he said, “Government hospitals and urban health centres were asked to test samples of pregnant women only. There is no such mandate issued to private hospitals.”
 
