New Delhi: A major incident was nipped in the bud in Gandhi Nagar of Shahdara over suspicion of beef being sold at a meat shop. The   immediately called veterinary physicians who confirmed that it was buffalo meat.

 The shop owner, who is licensed to sell the meat, was fined Rs 10,000 after he confessed that he had bought it from an illegal slaughterhouse in Gazipur. His shop was also shut down for a few hours till he got clearance from the municipal corporation.
 
 “We have been running this shop for the past 25 years. This is not the first time that we have been accused of selling  . We had been threatened twice earlier by unknown people who wanted to ruin our reputation so that our business suffers,” said Parvez, the meat shop owner.
 
 Parvez claimed that his family doesn’t have personal enmity with anyone. “The person who floated the   must have been aware about a wedding at our house and aqiqah (sacrifice) rituals for which I had bought the meat,” he added.
 
 In another incident, cops fired at two men who were trying to flee in a mini-truck with five cows. The PCR got a call at 2.30am about the men transporting the cows. When they saw the cops, they sped towards Raghubir Nagar.
 
 The cops in the PCR van then called for backup. “When another police van intercepted them from the front, the accused men broke through a police picket near Pacific Mall and sped towards Khyala,” said DCP (PCR) Monika Bhardwaj.
 
 Soon, more police vehicles joined the chase and the two men fired a couple of rounds at the cops. The accused soon reached a dead-end and while taking a U-turn near Subhash Nagar hit a Santro. A cop then fired at the mini-truck’s tyre and it burst, but the men continued to drive it. Finally, the accused got down and tried to escape on foot.
 
 “The accused have been identified as Shahid (24) and Umar (25). A country-made pistol and 10 live cartridges were seized from Shahid. A case has been registered at Paschim Vihar police station,” said Bhardwaj.
 
 In a third incident, three people, including a woman, were brutally beaten up in south Delhi’s Vasant Kunj on Sunday for hitting a cow. The woman had pushed and hit the cow after it brushed against her while she was walking across the place where it was tied. Four people, including the cow owner, have been arrested.
 
 
