PATNA: “What power cut? We are not resorting to load-shedding,” is how Patna Electricty Supply Undertaking ( ) GM Dilip Kumar Singh reacted on Monday when told about the sleepless night people in Patna spent on Saturday and Sunday due to the power outages that rendered their fans and ACs non-functional.

 While the mercury has been hovering around 43-44 degree C for the past couple of days earning the city the dubious distinction of being hotter than desert cities like Jaisalmer, Jaipur and even Abu Dhabi, residents in western Patna, including Ashiana Nagar, Anandpuri, Boring Road and Pataliputra Colony areas, are facing the second whammy in the form of frequent power cuts.
 
 “Didi, I haven’t slept for the last two days; will not do all the utensils today,” declared domestic help Madhuri of Kurji Mor as she entered the house of her employer on Vivekanand Marg. “Ek toh bijli kaat-kar sarkar ne maatha kharab kiya hai, doosre aap,” fumed another domestic help Neha as her employer on Boring Road was late in opening the door to let her in for the day’s work.
 
 A government officer’s wife, Purnima Roy, was equally furious. “Power supply network seems to have gone haywire just when we need uninterrupted supply the most. Prolonged power cuts are few and far between, but short-duration outages are frequent throughout the day,” fumed the housewife, a resident of west Boring Canal Road.
 
 Samanpura resident Niyaz Khan was worried about his children. “My small daughter started crying on Sunday night due to the discomfort. All of us slept almost in the morning when power supply resumed after hours,” said Khan.
 
 Pesu officials deny power crisis. “There is no capacity constraint in supplying power in Patna nor are there any breakdowns. There was a snag in the transmission line of Sampatchak and Khagaul power grids on Sunday, which primarily affected the supply in western Patna. But the issue has been resolved. If at all power cuts are being reported, it must be due to local issues in the area, which also get resolved within maximum 30 minutes,” the Pesu GM told TOI. 
 
 According to him, the daily demand of power in Patna at present is 510MW, which is being met “completely”. The power demand of Patna in peak summer season is normally around 525MW.
 
 Not only in Patna, people in districts also complained about truant power supply. “It has been erratic since the wee hours today. We were informed by the fuse call centres that transmission from six feeders in the city was stopped due to a breakdown. Power supply was restored after around four hours, but it kept on tripping frequently thereafter as well. Many areas of Bhagalpur do not get power supply for even 10 hours in a day for several days now,” Mantu Singh of Lal Bagh in Bhagalpur told TOI over the phone on Monday.
 
 Bihar requires around 4000MW power daily. As of now, the state draws 3003MW from the central sector while 100MW is generated by its Kanti thermal unit. Besides, 1010MW power is purchased from open market for which short-term and long-term agreements have been made with different power producers, said sources.
 
 
