PUNE: The Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) will mark the third death anniversary of iconic cinematographer   with a three-day festival.

 Murthy is known for his mesmerizing black-and-white cinematography for   films such as   (1957), Kaagaz Ke Phool (1959), Sahib Bibi Aur Ghulam (1962). Murthy's magical touch immortalised   in Guru Dutt's classics Pyaasa and Kaagaz Ke Phool. Those who don't know much about Murthy's work need to watch the picturisation and light-shadow interplay in the song 'Na  ' (Sahib Bibi Aur Ghulam). He also showcased his genius in colour films like Shikar, Love in Tokyo, Jugnu and many more VK, as he was fondly known, also filmed Shyam Benegal's Bharat Ek Khoj (1988), Govind Nihalani's Tamas (1986) and commercial flick Razia Sultan (1983). To Murthy goes the unique credit of breaking the “glass ceiling“ by being the first film technician to win Indian cinema's highest honour,   award in 2008.
 
 The inauguration of a photo exhibition of Murthy by chief guest Govind Nihalani will mark the beginning of the festival on April 7. This will be followed by a performance by actor Tom Alter on a song from Pyaasa. Some veteran filmmakers like A K Bir, Jehangir Choudhary, Ishwar Bidri, G. S.Bhaskar and Jayant Kaikini and others will talk about Murthy as the legend of Indian cinema.
 
 On April 8, a Films Division documentary Light, Shadow and Me on Murthy will be screened. Govind Nihalani's talk V K as my mentor, FTII students' presentation of a paper on Murt hy and A. S. Kanal's speech on “Lyrical approach in VK's songs“ are the other highlights of the day .
 
 Besides, Nihalani, Bir, Jehangir Choudhary and G.S. Bhaskar will participate in a panel discussion on director and cinematographer's synergetic collaboration in Indian cinema and its relevance in today's digital era on the second day of the festival.   will also be screened on the second day.
 
 On April 9, apart from Chitrahaar ­ songs from various films shot by Murthy , Shyam Benegal will speak on Murthy as his cinematographer during the making of TV series Bharat Ek Khoj. Shivendra Singh Dungarpur will elaborate on preserving for posterity in relation to the creative works of Murthy . Jayanth Kaikini will express his views on VK's contribution to the cultural ambience through cinematography , theatre and music.The festival will conclude with the screening of Sahib Biwi aur Ghulam.
 
 Screenings of films shot by Murthy are open for general public, the statement said.
 
