Surat: Union territory of Daman and Diu administrator Praful Patel said on Friday that there was no plan to merge Daman with Gujarat. “Central government has no such plans,” he reiterated. 

 Under serious pressure from residents in the Union territory of Daman following a bandh to protest against Gujarat high court’s observation on merging Daman with Gujarat, the Daman administration and local BJP leaders have started an exercise to pacify the people. 
 
 Daman and Diu administrator Praful Patel told TOI, “Since the day, I took charge as the administrator, the rumour of merger has been set in motion. We won’t let Daman to be merged with Gujarat at any cost. No such proposal has been sent by the administration. Central government does not have any such plan either. Gujarat high court just gave a suggestion during a hearing in a prohibition case of Daman.”
 
 Patel added, “I would like to advice the people of Daman that it is not right to call for a bandh, over a suggestion given by Gujarat high court. I request them to stay away from all such rumours.” 
 
 Two days ahead of the visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, trade and business fraternity, including general public of Daman, unanimously decided to observe a bandh on April 15 to protest against Gujarat high court’s suggestion on the merger of Daman with Gujarat to implement prohibition law effectively. The atmosphere in Daman is charged following Gujarat high court’s merger suggestion. Opposition parties led by Congress have become active after the court’s observation. 
 
 In 2015, Union minister of state Haribhai Chaudhary had come under the line of fire from people in Daman for his statement that the Central Government was seriously thinking of merging Daman and DNH with Gujarat. 
 
 Daman and Diu Pradesh Congress Committee (DDPCC) president Ketan Patel told TOI, “This is first time that the administrator has spoken about the merger. He could have done this six months ago to assure the people that he won’t allow the merger of Daman with Gujarat at any cost and that the Centre has no such plans.”
 
 
