HYDERABAD: Regular air crashes are being reported because the   is still using the ageing HJT-16 Kiran aircraft fleet that has long ago been recommended to be phased out by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) for training fighter pilots. Following the crash of Kiran aircraft at Keesara on Wednesday, experts once again stressed the need for replacing the Kiran fleet for the Stage -2 training of   fighter pilots.In 2014, CAG pulled up   (HAL) for a 14-year delay in inducting Intermediate Jet Trainers and even after three years of the CAG report, the prototype of HJT-36 Sitara is yet to be inducted as it failed the crucial spin test. In the spin test, the aircraft has to be stalled midair and recovered as part of the training process.

 Member of Air Force Association for Telangana and AP retired wing commander TJ Reddy told TOI, “IAF training is carried out in three stages. They are Stage-1(basic), Stage-2(intermediate) and Stage-3 (advanced). IAF has Swiss-made Pilatus aircraft latest series for basic training for pilots. For Stage-2 Kiran Mark-2, a two-seat basic jet trainer built indigenously by HAL, is being used. It can be solo or dual flight depending on the advancement of training. The reasons for the crash could be utilisation of over-used and aged aircraft, inclement weather or pilot error.Besides, various aspects of how many hours that aircraft has been in operation, maintenance records and technical details should be studied. Basic training is imparted at Bidar, and for intermediary training, the trainees are sent to  ,“ Advanced jet trainer British Hawks are used for combat flying in Stage-3.
 
 The CAG report revealed that Kiran and Iksara aircraft were being used for Stage-2 training since the 1970s. While Iskara were phased out in 2004, Kiran is yet to be put to rest. In its report, the CAG said, “Due to considerable delay in production of contracted IJT aircraft, IAF continues to depend on the ageing and depleting Kiran fleet for training purpose.“
 
 The CAG observed, “IAF operates only 39 aircraft for training purposes against the authorisation of 79 Kiran and out of these, only 19 were in flying condition. Due to this, IAF was finding itself extremely constrained in completing the training of Stage-II pilots in time,“ HAL had revealed in 2015 that Kiran would stay for three to four more years. According to experts, this would mean mishaps are inevitable during training.
 
