BARCELONA: The government will put all the spectrum that didn’t find any takers in the last sale, as well as higher frequency bands, on the auction block in the next round expected in the second half of this year, telecommunications secretary   said.
 
  The Department of Telecom will soon send a request to the sector regulator for its recommendations for the next auction, Deepak said. “I believe auctions would be held between July and December - it will be annual auction done every year. How much of spectrum to be sold, the price, newer spectrum bands, all issues will be considered,” he added.
  
  His comments come even as  , chairman of market leader  , said local telecom operators were now spectrum surplus and that they didn’t need to buy anymore airwaves this year. He even said that the government might not hold an auction in the next fiscal year starting April 1.
  
  While Deepak said there would indeed be an auction, he added that the government was also not unduly concerned about the possibility of some spectrum remaining unsold.
  
 “But we would like to give an opportunity to the industry to buy spectrum as and when they need,” he explained, while elaborating also that   now have sufficient opportunity to buy airwaves from each other or the government. “They should never have this feeling of being deprived short or scarce of spectrum.”
  
  Deepak was speaking to reporters on the sidelines of the   on a day when global industry body   came out with a report on India, terming it a “lighthouse” country whose reforms and ease of business policies could be emulated by other nations. Deepak also gave a keynote address at the event, highlighting major policy steps such as spectrum sharing and trading taken by the government.
  
  The industry wasn’t a “monolith. Others may want it,” Deepak said, while explaining that there will still be demand for spectrum in the market. He compared the annual sale of bandwidth with the business at a supermarket.
  
  “If a supermarket doesn’t sell all its goods in one day, it doesn’t get a heart attack or high blood pressure. It will sell the next day, next week, next month,” he said. Confirming that the falling revenue of the sector had alarmed the  , Deepak said the body had indeed written to the regulator to look into the matter.
  
  “The fact that the commission is worried about the decrease in government revenues as well as the potential impact on the health of the has been conveyed to the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India,” Deepak said.
  
  Last week, ET reported that the Telecom Commission, the highest decisionmaking body of the telecom department, had pulled up the regulator for the falling revenue of the sector, a direct impact of the free voice and data services provided by new entrant Reliance Jio Infocomm. The commission had pointed out a fall of .`685 crore in licence fee as well as spectrum usage charge to the government and said that the figure could rise by an additional 8-10% in the coming quarters.
  
  Deepak however, refused to comment on the next steps, which the government could take to help the sector reel out of the competitive pressures. “The level of competition is the same whether there are five operators or 10 or 12 as we had earlier. So, after five, competition does not increase, but if there are 20 players there is needless fragmentation of spectrum without increasing competition,” he said.
  
  Speaking about introductions of 5G technology he said the department should be coming out with a policy on use of higher band spectrum in the next three to four months, including 5G.
