CHENNAI: When   displayed a slide with two identical glasses containing equal amounts of   in each, little did the audience know that the physicist was going to give a solution to their water woes. They curiously watched as Soni started pouring the water into the sand glass. Half the water glass could empty into the sand. "Sand and gravel are great for water storage. They are aquifer material. If we can productively use floodplains in  , they can provide enough water for the whole state," said Soni, who was delivering a lecture based on his book "Naturally - Tread Softly on the Planet" at M S   on Tuesday. 

 Soni, however, explained how floodplains were used to provide water, citing an example from Delhi. He said people had always stayed away from the floodplains of the rivers in India as they always overran their banks during the monsoon. "The Yamuna river floodplain in Delhi is about 100 sqkm in area and on average 40-50 metres deep. It can hold about one-and-a-half billion cubic metres of water. The recharge value of flood plain is cheaper compared to recycling of the same volume of water," said Soni. Floodplains of Cauvery and other rivers must be used for this type of 'preserve and use' scheme," he added.
 
 A floodplain is an area of land adjacent to a stream or river that stretches from the banks of its channel to the base of the enclosing valley walls and experiences flooding during monsoon. 
 
  "If you want to lead a healthy life, you need to know about the existence of your planet. Natural resources are being used indiscriminately. The world has downloaded 30 trillion tonnes of concrete and waste on the earth's surface during the last ten years. It's a dangerous situation. We need to overcome this by learning from nature [about] how it manages to sustain itself," he said.
 
 The diversity of the network is interconnected, according to Soni, and people only find out how critical a species is when they lose it or when a new one is introduced. "The European rabbit was introduced in   in 1800s to provide game for hunting. But it took over the grassland in a few years, depriving many native species of food, habitat. Culling didn't help. It had to be eliminated by introducing myxoma virus and calicivirus fatal to the species," he said. 
 
