AGRA: In a shocking incident coming months after the gang-rape of a mother and her teenage daughter in July last year on NH 91 near Bulandshahr, a gang of six armed robbers barged into the house of a former deputy inspector general of police from Himachal Pradesh near Jikarpur village in Tappal, Aligarh, less than a kilometre away from the Yamuna expressway, and tortured two   of the house for over three hours. They later went out and robbed a private double-decker bus ferrying passengers to Lucknow from New Delhi on the e-way where they shot at two when passengers resisted. 
 
 According to Aligarh senior superintendent of police Rajesh Kumar Pandey, “The incidents occurred late on Saturday night and the roles of one of the watchmen at the former DIG’s house, who had joined just a couple of months ago, as well as the bus driver and conductor who had halted the bus at the spot to apparently change a punctured tyre, a claim later disputed by the passengers, are being probed.”
  
 Tappal station officer Rajver Singh told TOI, “The victims, a 32-year-old woman who is the wife of the house caretaker, and one of her younger relatives, were alone at the house when the assailants barged in. They were asking for some cash of the former cop which the women had no clue about. They assaulted them for over three hours leaving them injured and also causing burn injuries to one of the victims.”
  
 Later, they targeted the bus passengers and robbed them, shooting at a couple of them who resisted.
  
 “Between 2:30 and 3 am, they left the   and came on the expressway after cutting the barbed wiring alongside the road. They targeted the stationary bus, when driver Gurdeep Singh along with conductor Ajay were changing the tyre, which they claimed was punctured. They robbed valuables mostly cash from 12 passengers and shot at two of them who resisted. The victims were sent to a nearby private hospital in Jewar,” the SO said.
  
 Identified as Puran Singh and Raj Singh, both residents of Khoda in Ghaziabad, the victims were shot at with a country-made pistol and are now in a stable condition.
  
 Rajesh Singh, a close friend of the victims who was traveling along with them to Lucknow, said, “The assailants had fired shots at me, but the bullet hit Puran and Raj. The assailants even hit a soldier’s head (identified as Vivek Yadav) with the butt of a pistol, when he resisted the loot.”
  
 Contrary to police claim, Rajesh said, “Every passenger of the bus was robbed. They did not even spare women. They misbehaved with them and took away their jewellery and other belongings.” He claimed, “The driver and conductor of the bus might have been involved in the robbery, as no one heard any tyre burst. They just halted the bus for nearly half an hour, perhaps to allow the assailants to enter the bus.”
  
 According to Aligarh SSP Rajesh Kumar Pandey, a case under sections 395 (dacoity) and 397 (robbery or dacoity, with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt) of the IPC has been registered against the unidentified miscreants and six men have been detained for questioning.
 
 
