ROHTAK: Buoyed by the large gathering on the Sunday sit-in over the call of ‘black day’, the   (Aijass) on Sunday announced their decision not to celebrate Holi to press for their demand. Donning black ‘chunnis’, turbans, and bands, the Jat protesters -- including elders and women -- reached the Jassia sit-in in tractor trollies, raising the demand of Jat reservation. The large crowds of protesters -- including supporters of controversial   -- coming from villages from across the district, laid a siege at National Highway-71A from Rohtak to Gohana.

 The operations at Makdoli toll plaza were suspended, making it a free run for Jat sit-in bound vehicles. Attempting to target the business community, Jat leader   asked the protesters to refrain from shopping from establishments not carrying the message for Jat demands. Attacking the BJP government for not accepting their demand for withdrawal of criminal cases, Malik said if the ruling regime was so serious about upholding the law of the land, then why action was not taken against BJP workers in the past 12 months. “BJP workers were directly involved in triggering tension and attack on the Jat community, but action against them has been missing, and the government pretends to have no knowledge about it,” alleged Malik.
 
 Appealing to protesters to be ready for a Delhi siege, Malik said the date of surrounding parliament would be announced on March 2, in which Delhi and Uttar Pradesh Jats would protest at Jantar Mantar. He said the date probably would be just after Holi festival, and the protesters would lay complete siege on National Highway-1 (Sonipat-Delhi), 10 (Rohtak-Delhi), and 8 (Rewari-Delhi). He said: “About 50,000 protesters would enter Delhi on March 2, and five crore after Holi, leaving no space for others on that day.”
 
 Meanwhile, there was an announcement of the contribution of Rs10,000 from nine Jat regiments to the Jassia sit-in. Aijass secretary   said that as per prior announcements, Jats would not pay electricity, water, and outstanding loans from March 1.
 
