While   enthralled his fans with an electrifying performance at Navi Mumbai’s DY Patil Stadium last night, not many know what the Canadian pop sensation did soon after arriving in Mumbai at 1.30 am on Wednesday. The 23-year-old singer went straight to his hotel from the airport, and soon after, left for a quick darshan of South Mumbai. 

 A source said, “He was on his toes since his arrival. Instead of resting at the hotel, he explored the streets of Mumbai. Accompanied by his security in-charge   and a couple of his personal bodyguards, Bieber visited the Gateway Of India at 4 am. He got off the car and enjoyed a stroll on the road, before returning to the hotel.” The source added, “Initially, Bieber wanted to walk around the streets without security, but he wasn’t allowed to because given his immense popularity, it would have been a security hazard.” 
 
 After coming back to the hotel, Bieber enjoyed a traditional Kerala massage by a special masseuse flown down from the southern state. Later, he took off for his performance on a chopper from Mahalaxmi Race Course. 
 
 
 Salman Khan’s bodyguard Shera, who has previously handled the security of various international artistes touring the country, including  , Peter Andre, Diana King and  , spoke to BT about the special arrangements made for the singer. He said, “I have a team of around 50 people working with me. I will be with him throughout the tour and have been stationed in the hotel since Sunday.” 
 
 Talking about the pressures of handling an international celebrity like Bieber, he added, “The stressful part is handling the press and the crowd. Justin has a huge fan following among the youth. Many of my friends and acquaintances have been seeking my help to get a picture clicked with him, but I am very professional. Even my son called up from the US saying that he is coming down to see Bieber, but I asked him to go to the concert on his own.” 
 
 
 Checks into his hotel
 Takes a spin around SoBo
 Enjoys a walk along the Gateway of India
 Relaxes with a Kerala massage at the hotel
 
 
  
  
 
 
