NAGPUR: The   (BJP) seems to be in a perpetual poll mode since 2014 when it won a majority on its own for the first time at the Centre and later the same year emerged the single largest party in Maharashtra. This was followed by impressive performance in virtually every elections, right from the   to   in the state.

 With the high court on Saturday giving green signal for the grand birthday bash for   at the historic   on May 27, the party would like to use it for boosting its PR exercise. 
 
 The function being organized ostensibly by a public committee is set to be a BJP show as it will be attended by the all-powerful party president Amit Shah and half-a-dozen chief ministers of BJP-ruled states. 
 
 Besides Devendra Fadnavis, UP’s Yogi Adityanath, Rajasthan’s Vasundhara Raje Scindia, MP’s Shivraj Singh Chouhan and Chhattisgarh’s Raman Singh are expected to attend the function. Party sources said arrangements are being made for seating 40,000 people at the ground. 
 
 Gadkari will be presented a ‘purse’ of Rs61 lakh to mark his 61st birthday, which in all probability he will donate to a public cause. Besides this, several other events are being organized by the party.
 
 At a city unit meeting held on Friday, BJP city president and MLA Sudhakar Kohale announced that the party organization will be expanded in such a way that in 2019 Lok Sabha elections the target of getting 7 lakh votes for Gadkari could be easily achieved. 
 
 On Saturday, the city unit also named presidents for each of the 38 municipal units (prabhags) to coordinate for three programmes — Deendayal Upadhyay centenary, booth-level expansion and life-membership fund-raising — that the party had undertaken.
 
 While the BJP is upbeat, the picture in the main rival political party — the Congress — is a stark contrast. Despite poor electoral reverses in every elections in the last three years, the Congress is unable to get its act together and douse simmering fires of infighting and groupism. 
 
 While the BJP is readying for the 2019 elections, the Congress camp is not sure who will be its next Lok Sabha candidate. Meanwhile, at the NMC level there could be face-off over nomination of city president Vikas Thakre as co-opted member next week.
 
