Those were the days when I vacationed in Mumbai, ‘the city that never sleeps’, in July and August! Apart from shopping and the cinemas, watching over my 5-year-old grand niece, Tiaara, when she played with her friends, and listening to her endless talk was a good ‘time pass’. She was full on entertainment from dawn to dusk!
 
 Wanting to participate in Tiaara’s  , some days, I would walk her back from the designated school bus stop. This provided me with an insight into her compassionate nature. She would narrate stories of how she helped a slow learner that day, shared her snacks with her friends and went hungry in the bargain, the candies she had saved for her grandma and so on and so forth. Non-stop chatter while stopping to play and pat the stray dogs that followed her! They were her friends too and she had kept names for them. How wonderful to be a child and live day to day! I thought.
  
 On one such visit to Mumbai the opal gemstone fell off from my new gold ring. My whole world collapsed, and I was engulfed more by impotent anger than by unhappiness, at the loss. At 60, I still hadn’t outgrown my childhood habit of bringing the roof down when I lost one of my precious possessions! I am the worst person to be around in such times. The hunt for the truant opal got underway. Every dark nook and cranny in the apartment, hitherto unexplored, was invaded by the broom but yielded no result. Then armed with a flashlight, I crawled under the bed and peered into the darkness. In the ensuing commotion Tiaara stood on the bed, looking sorrowful but not quite comprehending what was happening. Seeing her crestfallen face her grandmother explained to her, my predicament. She then pleaded with my sister, “Please Naanima give her one of my rings”. I surfaced from under the bed and gently told her that it was the opal that was lost and not the ring. Tiaara then said, "Naanima, please take a stone out of one of my rings and give it to Sheila Bebe". Her caring plea had laid bare my immature and hysterical behaviour. Ashamed, I calmed down and abandoned the frantic search.
  
 Soon after that memorable incident my holidays came to an end, and I left Mumbai. The lost gemstone became a thing of the past and was never referred to again. Tiaara is now a 10-year-old, an achiever in studies, sports and cultural activities. What is wonderful is that her selflessness and thoughtfulness is still intact!
  
 
 
 
 
