CHANDIGARH: Bacchus lover will have to shell out more in   with the new   effecting an across the board increase of 20% in prices of all the brands of  ,   (IMFL), and foreign liquor in the state.

 Excise Policy for the year 2017-18 was unveiled by excise and taxation minister Captain Abhimanyu on Sunday. The policy is being tagged as “vendor friendly” as it seems to favour the retailers than the buyers.
 
 What’s more, those living in Gurugram and Faridabad excise zones will have to pay more for drinking in pubs and bars as the licence fee has been increased from Rs 12 lakh to 15 lakh per annum. This excludes other levies.
 
 Unlike previous years, the policy extends several choices to the vendors. Now, the vendor has an option of selling any kind of brand, be it countrymade liquor or IMFL or both from the same premises.
 
 Keeping in view the orders of Supreme Court banning liquor vends along all highways, the state government has given the contractor freedom of chose the location of the vend. This come with an additional facility of allowing the licensee to open two sub-vends at the places of his choice in the particular zone allotted to him.
 
 Abhimanyu, who is also the finance minister of Haryana, will present his third budget on Monday.
 
 The excise department achieved the revenue target of just Rs 4,071 crore against the target of 4,900 crore. Abhimanyu hinted at fixing Rs 5,500 crore as target for the next financial year. The minister said that he expected the licence fee and statutory levies for the licencess will help in achieving the current year target.
 
 There can be a maximum of 3,500 retail outlets of CL and IMFL in the state for the year 2017-18. However, since the licensees have been allowed to open two sub-vends under each vending licence, the number of vends in rural and urban put together could go as high as 9,000.
 
 “Allotment of liquor vends would be made on the basis of zones in a shift from allotment on the basis of group of vends as in the previous year. The zones will comprise of six retail vends, wherein the allottee will have a freedom and flexibility to locate his vend within his zone subject to the legal provisions and directions of the Supreme Court in this regard,” said Abhimanyu.
 
 “The licensee shall also have the flexibility to either sell country liquor or IMFL or both at any of his vends in the zone. Further, to plug the menace of bootlegging, two sub-vends per zone have been permitted in the urban area for the first time, against a fixed fee of Rs 10 lakh per sub-vend,” he added.
 
 He said that again for the first time, the state government had decided to auction via inviting bids for wholesale license of supply of imported foreign liquor (bottled in origin) in Haryana to tap the optimum potential of government revenue. The government was likely to fetch additional revenue of above Rs 50 crore this way, he added.
 
 Policy highlights
 
 — Liquor rates to go up in CSD canteens as excise duty has been hiked by 100% to 300%
 
 — Special policy for the sale of foreign liquor in Haryana. One centralized distributor will be set up and Rs 50 crore has been fixed as license fee
 
 — Liquor vends have directed to ensure issuance of receipts for the sale of liquor of Rs 1,000 or above. They have also been directed to encourage cashless transactions
 
 — There will be no effect on the functioning of bars and restaurants on and around the national highway and state highways across the state
 
 — This year a total of 185 Panchayats have asked the department to not to open vends in their areas. Last year, only 5 panchayats had opted for it. There is no such provision for the cities, confirmed excise officials
 
 — Now, policy has allowed two sub vends under one main vend in the urban belts as well. Government claims that this has been done to curb the practice of bootlegging in Haryana
 
 Liquor and petroleum products not under GST
 
 In Haryana, only liquor and petroleum products have been kept out of the ambit of the good and sales tax (GST) Act which will come into force from July 1. The increase in excise duty is believed to an attempt to cover the losses due to implementation of GST, as well as, closure of some vends operating along the national and state highways.
 
 ‘Bars on highway not hit’
 
 Finance minister Capt Abhimanyu on Sunday said that the bars and restaurants serving liquor would not be affected the Supreme Court order directing closure of liquor vends along all highways. This has been vetted by the attorney general of India on the communication sent by advocate general, he said.
 
 
