CHENNAI:   general secretary V K   on Monday said everyone, including O Panneeselvam, wanted her to be the CM on the night former chief minister J   
  . "I refused. At that time the CM post did not seem important to me. I am telling you this because you should know. You were not there at that time. I wanted to be by the side of Amma's body," Sasikala told her supporters outside the Poes Garden residence of the late chief minister.
 
 She said chief minister   was an ordinary man and he was brought to these heights by Jayalalithaa. "He is now trying to divide the AIADMK. He has proved he was never a loyalist," she said.
  
 "This could have happened on December 5, the day Amma died. I knew several people were making attempts to break the party. That night, even while I was grieving, I called five ministers, including Panneerselvam, and asked them to assume charge. I told them that Paneerselvam can be CM and others can keep their portfolios," said Sasikala, who has staked claim to for the government in the state. 
  
  
  said she has the support of 129 legislators and was confident of forming the government.
  
 "If you hide the comb, marriage won't stop. We will open Amma's photo in assembly. I can say, AIADMK will come to power. We came to power for two consecutive terms. We will do next time too. I will do anything for that," she said.
  
 She said Jayalalithaa was made propaganda secretary of the party by former chief minister M G Ramachandran when he wasn't well. "Amma's job was to collect grievances from people and submit it to him. She was a perfectionist. There was no place in   she hadn't visited. Today AIADMK has more than one crores cadres. I always encouraged her."
  
 "After MGR's death, there was no one with Amma. She was standing by MGR's body. I stood behind her. We learnt about what was happening only by listening to the conversations between senior leaders. Suddenly, they took his body inside for family rituals. Senior minister shut the door on us. Then when they opened it, they placed the body on the military vehicle. One army man took us close to the body so we can place the wreath. My nephew Dinakaran was with me," she said
  
 "Some of Janaki's (MGR's wife) relative pushed Amma from the vehicle and Jeppiar (founder some educational institutions who was then Metrowater chairman) beat her on her back. He was a tall and well- built man. At that time, Dinakaran was a small boy. He caught his hands and bit him. That's all he could do. By then Amma fell down and I helped her get up."
  
 "The then police commissioner Sripal wanted us to take Amma home as ministers were planning to beat her up. We brought her to Poes Garden. She fell. Our helper Rajamma brought water. I splashed water, wiped her face took her upstairs," she said.
  
 "Amma felt ashamed and refused to get back to politics. I begged her to stay on," Sasikala claimed.
  
 "My story is similar to that of Amma. My role was to read petitions given by AIADMK cadre and give it to Amma. I have never taken part in anything else. I used to arrange her tours and be part of coalition talks."
  
 "I was stunned that Panneerselvam was friendly and talking to members of DMK in the legislative assembly. I thought it wasn't good. So did other ministers. "
  
 "DMK leader Duraimurugan said if Panneerselvam was CM they would extend support. I expected OPS to say that he did not want their support but he did not say it," she said.
 
 
 
 
