MUMBAI: Expressing concern over a number of incidents in the last one year of objects being placed over   to cause an accident,   on Friday told the railways to spell out measures through technology or manpower it plans to take to prevent its recurrence. 

 A division bench of Justices Vidyasagar Kanade and Pukhraj Bora asked the railways about steps taken to nab persons responsible for these incidents. 
 
 “Several million people travel in trains in Mumbai every day and any untoward incident will cost hundreds of lives. The railways should address this issue on a priority basis,” said the judges. “It could be a terrorist act or sabotage. Without looking at the cost, you should look at technology that will help you detect objects placed on tracks and install it immediately. This concerns the lives of passengers,” added the judges. 
 
 The court has asked the railways to increase the gangmen and take the help of railway police and home guards to monitor tracks 24x7. The court has scheduled next hearing on March 17, when it has told the railways to address it on the issue. The issue was brought to the notice of the court by activist Samir Zaveri, during the hearing of a PIL seeking measures to reduce deaths on tracks and providing emergency medical aid to victims. The court was discussing the issue of boundary walls when the activists referred to incidents of rails being placed on tracks. Advocate Jamshed Mistry, who is an amicus curiae (friend of the court) in the case, said it was a security issue.
 
 Advocate Suresh Kumar, counsel for the railways, said technology for detecting obstacles or objects on tracks was under consideration. The advocate informed the court that the railways had in joint study with JJ School students identified 174 trespass-prone locations on Central and  . Construction of boundary walls and their repairs had been included by the Mumbai Rail Vikas Corporation under MUTP-III project. The court told the railways to settle payment dues of agencies which had undertaken the boundary wall work. The HC was informed that Cidco had refused to undertake any more work on the walls as the railways owed it over Rs 90 crore. 
 
 
