Nagpur: On October 2, 1981, a few hours after he had gunned down dreaded dacoit Pan Singh Tomar, Vijay Raman was surprised to get a call from Havana. ‘ Maharaj’ — the late Madhavrao Scindia — wanted to speak to him. Scindia, who was in the Cuban capital then, told him that BBC was playing up the news. “After the courtesy words, he told me how the international media was trying to focus on the socio-economic condition in India which had forced a former army-man and accomplished athlete to ‘bite the bullets’ to fight injustice. It was disturbing for both of us,” said Raman, who is a 1975-batch IPS officer of MP cadre.  Raman retired in 2011 as special director general of police of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF). He was in the city on Monday for a live chat show organized by Rani Laxmibai Durga Utsav Mandal in Laxmi Nagar. His three-decade journey from Kerala to Kashmir was well-captured at the near-three-hour riveting interview conducted by Devika Nadig which had the audience in an excited trance. Now a Pune resident, Raman spoke about his career in fatigues and creating a Guinness World Record by circumnavigating the globe in a Contessa car in 1991, covering 40,075 kms in 39 days, seven hours and 55 minutes.  Tomar encounter  “Tarikh’ (date),” he said, and dramatically paused, reflecting on the encounter night of October 1, 1981. An informer met him sharing an input that Tomar was resting at Ratiyon Ka Pura village with a plan to loot it a day later. “A couple of times earlier he had cheated me. Still, I went ahead with the plan even though I had only around 50 cops with me. This included the Addl SP Handa, DySP late Ghuraiyya and an inspector. As per rules I should have had 10 time more the number people in my team.” Strategy  “We had surrounded the village with 130 men which had an U-shaped topography. The Addl SP circled the village while myself, DySP Ghuraiyya and an inspector entered the hamlet with around 10 men,” said Raman. “I asked two constables to climb the terrace of a tall house to take the vantage position. I asked them to fire intermittently to create a confusion in the minds of the dacoits regarding our position and strength.” The Catch-22 situation Raman said there was an unforeseen predicament for him and his men. “As the dacoits started firing from inside the village and Addl SP Handa started retaliating from the periphery, it left me, Ghuraiyya, the inspector and a handful men in the crossfire. We had to take cover of a raised platform in supine position as the bullets flew from both directions above our head,” he said. After fighting the urge to smoke a cigarette throughout the night, Raman raised himself when the shooting from the dacoits’ side died down. It was then he spotted a body of a tall, well-built man a few meters away. “The body was later identified as that of Tomar,” he said.  The Ghazi Baba episode  Raman said that he had to ask DGP of Border Security Force (BSF), while working on deputation with the unit, to post him at Srinagar to take on Parliament attack and Kandahar hijack mastermind Ghazi Baba. “Once my informer and I spotted him walking down the street. I was all set to jump from my jeep and nab him red-handed but was held back forcefully by the informer who later told me that Ghazi Baba always wore a bomb belt if he was walking by himself,” said Raman. The Ghazi Baba encounter Raman said the final encounter of Ghazi Baba kicked off after one of his visitors was nabbed by BSF cop. “We followed the man to the locality where he pointed to the place where Ghazi baba was holed up. Some jawans and officers were injured in the operation. After considerable exchange of fire, we asked the elderly, women and children to vacate the house. Among the persons leaving the place was Ghazi baba’s wife with a child in arms. For identifying Baba’s body, we called a press photographer who had once clicked him. He was not in town and was to return later in the night. The entire country was waiting for the confirmation. When it came, everyone was relieved,” he said. Fencing my country  Raman, posted as IG security of the BSF, had taken up the uphill task of fencing the border of Kashmir despite continuous firing from the Pakistan side. “Many rules had to be bent, many risks taken but we completed the task,” he said. Dacoit Malkhan’s in Delhi The dreaded Chambal-based dacoit Malkhan Singh, who had once threatened Raman to abduct his son and also kill him, landed up in his New Delhi 8th floor apartment one evening. “Never having seen an elevator, Malkhan had climbed eight floors. He was seeking pardon for having manipulated my transfer. He came with few men who were carrying weapons to surrender,” said Raman.