MUMBAI: Matoshree has expelled corporator   for indulging in anti-party activities. 

 A formal announcement to this effect was made by the party on Tuesday. This is the first case of infighting in the Sena at a time when it is fighting with its back against the wall to retain control of the BMC in the upcoming elections. Abhishek is the Sena corporator from Dahisar and the son of party veteran Vinod Ghosalkar. Abhishek could be on his way to the BJP, it is learnt. There was no confirmation from either Vinod or Abhishek on the latter’s next course of action. Abhishek on Tuesday was admitted to a private hospital after he complained of restlessness. When TOI tried to reach him one of his close aides said that due to blood pressure problems he was admitted to a hospital at Malad. 
 
 Abhishek incurred Matoshree’s wrath after he openly clashed with former mayor Shubha Raul, corporator Sheetal Mhatre and nominated corporator Avkash Jadhav over the inauguration of a garden in Dahisar recently.
 
 The BMC issued the trio a showcause notice for allegedly violating the civic code. Later on January 21 the BMC officials went ahead and registered a non-cognizable offence against the trio as well with the MHB police station at Borivli. The three corporators had alleged that the BMC officials were purely working under the pressure of Ghosalkar who had got the civic body to register a complaint against them. Abhishek had complained that the garden was inaugurated after the code of conduct for the   came into effect on January 11. Taking a serious view of the intra-party crisis, Matoshree asked Abhishek to withdraw the complaint. However, Abhishek did not pay heed to Matoshree’s edict following which party president Uddhav Thackeray ordered his expulsion.
 
 Raul said Abhishek’s act was childish. On Tuesday, she along with Mhatre and Jadhav met civic chief Ajoy Mehta demanding to know why the ward officer registered a police complaint. “Did we indulge in violence that the BMC had to register a police case?” asked Raul, adding that they had a meeting with Uddhav on Tuesday morning where it was decided to expel Abhishek.
 
 “This could have been resolved in a better way had the person concerned abided by the party’s orders,” said Jadhav. 
 
