KOLKATA: Two days after Partha De’s death it is still not clear who has bought 3,  . On Thursday, a good part of the police probe was spent on establishing his monetary transactions since his release from Calcutta Pavlov Hospital. Officers visited a public sector bank in Park Street and have plans to visit the   registry office by this weekend. Their main objective now is to find out who owns the property at Robinson Street.

 TOI managed to contact Partha’s aunt Mukti De on Thursday. However, there was little she wanted to share. “I am not in a position to comment on this (the family stand vis-a-vis claiming Partha’s body or any part of his property). Do not disturb us,” she said over phone. Police said that neither Mukti nor Partha’s uncle Arun have revealed their present place of residence to cops. Sources, though, said they believe that the couple, along with their son, had shifted out of the Robinson Street house — where Partha had lived for six months with the rotting corpses of his sister and two dogs in 2015 — and moved to Triangular Park. “They had moved out last November after their house at Robinson Street was sold off,” said a source.
 
 One of Arun’s tenants who moved out of Robinson Street a little over two months ago said the place was sold off long ago. “The theory that property and land sharks trying to get hold of it at any cost might have been the cause of Partha’s suicide is an impossibility. I think the media is unnecessarily trying to spread bad blood.” She stressed that the property was sold off “after every member of both families were in perfect agreement over the decision”. She added that the decision to sell off the premise was taken much before Arabinda De had committed suicide.
 
 She, however, was unwilling to comment on whether the tenants were asked to move out within a specified time. Nor did she say if she knew who the new buyer was. She sounded upset when asked whether the tenants were given a compensation package to vacate the premises. “These are personal details that I am not willing to divulge. The media is overstepping its limits.” 
 
 TOI on Thursday reported that 3, Robinson Street was sold for Rs 46 crore and tenants received approximately Rs 2.6 crore per family to vacate the property. 
 
 Asked whether she had seen Partha during her long association with the property, the tenant said, “I am unwilling to say anything about that either. There is too much misconstruction already. All I can say is that the property and its value has nothing to do with the tragedy.” 
 
 
