MOHALI: A 46-year-old mother of three has given a new lease of   in a case of  .“My mother died the same way she lived, by caring and giving,“ said  , the son of brain-dead   whose heart, kidneys and pancreas were harvested and transplanted into three terminally ill patients at PGIMER. Her cornea will restore the sight of two more patients.

 The Sector 25 resident was out on her evening stroll when a speeding vehicle hit her from the rear near her house on May 10. She was rushed to Government Multi-specialty Hospital, Sector 16, from where she was referred to PGIMER. However, despite doctors' best efforts, Jaswinder Kaur could not be saved.
 
 Following the family's decision, the doctors harvested the heart, kidneys, pancreas and corneas of brain-dead Jaswinder Kaur for transplantation. The surgery was successful. All the patients are now stable and will be under observation.
 
 Gagandeep Singh said her mother always felt it was her duty to help people.“From providing food and clothes to the needy to giving regular donations for solemnizing marriages of daughters of the not so privileged, compassion was the core of her being, so much it was her final act too,“ he said. Dr Vipin Koushal, nodal officer, Rotto, PGIMER, while paying tributes to the donor family, said, “Through their magnanimous gesture in their hour of grief and despair, the family has conveyed a very strong message of unconditional love, compassion and humanitarian spirit.“ Living examples of Mother Courage, they doubled their strength to bring up their families single-handedly.
 
  Honoured during a Mother's Day event here on Saturday, Baljinder Kaur, Neelu Bajaj and   have stories that can inspire any parent.
 
 Baljinder Kaur, a single mother from Mohali, overcame gender stereotyping to drive auto-rickshaw to earn for her son. Her struggle started when she had to separate from her husband after a few years of marriage, when her son was all of four months. “I came to my parent's house and stared stitching clothes, as there was no earning hand in the family .My brother had died a few years ago and my father was disabled. I gathered the courage to pick up my brother's autorickshaw,“ she said.
 
 She is Mohali's first woman auto-rickshaw driver, and makes a good amount out of it. She is now determined to make her son a police officer.
 
 Tailor wears a smile: Married at 19, Neelu Bajaj discovered that her husband was unemployed. They separated after the birth of her two children and she started stitching for earning. She progressed to join a designing institute and earn a job there. Now her daughter is a doctor and a mother of two, while her son is a chartered accountant who got married recently . She said: “Now when my children are settled, I feel relaxed.“
 
 Into record books: Rekha Ahirwar, winner of 'Mother of the Year' award, is from Jhansi in UP . Rekha's struggle started young when her mother passed away and she had to support the family . Born into a poor family , she was married at 17 to a college clerk. 
 
 With no help from her husband, a woman who has passed just Class VIII, educated her seven sisterin-laws and her own five child ren. Her three daughters and two sons hold PhDs. Her youngest son is assistant professor at Panjab University (PU) --an achievement that has found her a place even in the Limca Book of Records.
 
