KOLHAPUR: The district   will be taking active steps to reduce   across the district says  , new district superintendent of police (SP). 

 Over 450 people have lost their lives in road accidents in the last six months. The new SP has assured to curb the accidental deaths across the district.
 
 Mohite is the newly appointed SP. He had earlier served for the Mumbai police traffic department. In an interview with TOI on Friday, Mohite said, “My main focus will be to improve basic policing and eliminate traffic concerns of the city. I will make sure of bringing about this change in the next six months.”
 
 He said, “I am going to form a new traffic advisory committee to take care of the traffic infrastructure in the city. The earlier committee was not up to the mark which has led to increased number of road accidents.”
 
 “We will be designing parking lots in those places which are mostly used for parking vehicles. Also, there is a need to improve traffic junctions and a drone based study has to be undertaken for the same. Our main focus will be to resolve the traffic issue with the help of the common people,” he added.
 
 Mohite emphasised on introduction of the new system in traffic management. He introduced the concept of   for people who violate the traffic rules. They will be fined through the digital mode and the manual fine slips will be stopped. “The traffic violators will not be fined in the first place. However, if traffic is violated for the second time, the vehicle owner will be impounded. The data of the traffic rule violators will be saved in the main server and each time the violation takes place the details will be shown on the hand-held device,” said Mohite. 
 
 Over the increasing theft rates across the district, Mohite highlighted the importance of transparency in the system. “My responsibility is to keep things in order. I have to improve the transparency index and reduce the level of corruption in the system. Transparency can be achieved only if the intervention by the police in every process of administration will be reduced.” he added.
 
 
