BHUBANESWAR: Doomed to a state of limbo for years by  's popularity, the BJP in a bid to revive its political fortune in the coming days has begun to market its unexpected success in the just-concluded panchayat election. 

 Prime Minister  's repeated reference of party performance in election rallies in Uttar Pradesh, the Vijay Utsav planned across the state on Saturday and Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan's media meet in New Delhi during the day are seen as part of this grand strategy. The party, sources said, after the official declaration of the results on Saturday, is planning to invite all elected zilla parishad members to a felicitation function here. 
 
 "I thank the people of Odisha for reposing their faith in the BJP. This shows people want clean and transparent governance," the Prime Minister said at an election rally at Gonda in UP on Friday. Stating that Odisha was always being discussed for starvation, illiteracy, poverty and unemployment, Modi said the poor people of the state have drawn the attention of the country by deciding to stand by the BJP. There was a time when there was hardly a place to raise a party flag, he said.
 
 Union oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan described the panchayat election results as a reply to stagnancy and incompetency of the Naveen Patnaik government. He said the results proved that the November 8 demonetisation initiative taken by the Prime Minister had the people's support. Pradhan, who extensively campaigned this time, quoting media reports said his party has bagged 307 (elections were held for 848 out of 852) ZP seats. 
 
 Accompanied by Union minister Jual Oram and the party's state in-charge Arun Singh, Pradhan said the BJP got unprecedented success in Malkangiri, Kalahandi and Mayurbhanj district. Of the 187 ZP seats in the KBK districts, the BJP won 90, giving a heavy blow to the Congress he said. 
 
 The BJD, however, maintained that the BJP's bluster would pose no threat to it. The party reminded the BJP that it was part of the government for nine years. While pointing fingers at the BJD on poverty in Odisha, the BJP should not forget that it was an alliance partner in the government for nine years, BJD spokesperson Pratap Keshari Deb said.
 
 Leader of opposition Narasingha Mishra described the BJP statement on poverty as a publicity stunt. Did the BJP not know about the KBK poverty during the  's NDA government days and when the party was in power with the BJD in the state? Mishra asked. 
 
