CHENNAI: A former executive officer of the Chitlapakkam panchayat is part of an effort to encroach upon the bund and walkway of the lake in the area by extending a temple, residents have alleged. 

 A group of residents led by  , an activist, on Saturday submitted a petition in this regard to panchayat executive officer B  .
 
 Jayaram, who along with many youths in the area is spearheading a campaign against the encroachment, said the lake once spanned 80 acres. Now, it spreads over a mere 30 acres. "The new constructions have encroached upon a larger part of the lake."
 
 Three temples and a commercial complex have already encroached upon the lake, thanks to 'help' from civic officials and political functionaries, the petition alleged. Now, one of the temples is being further extended, the residents said.
 
 "The former executive officer, who has been adamant on going ahead with the extension ahead of an event on February 5, wants us to allow him to do so. But, we will not allow the water body to be affected," Jayaram said.
 
 Civic group "Chitlapakkam Rising", of which Jayaram is a member, has been spearheading many campaigns to protect the neighbour hood. Its members on weekends clean and paint walls of major landmarks in the area.
 
 S  , a resident, said it was time the authorities concerned took steps to protect water bodies. "There is a concerted effort by unscrupulous elements to grab land from the lake. We will do our best to stop them," he added.
 
 Another resident, who did not wish to be identified, said that the authorities were meant to protect water bodies. 
 
 "In this case, politicians and civic officials are ganging up to encroach upon the lake. And they want us to be mute spectators. That will not happen," he said.
 
 Shenbagarajan acknowledged that the residents had approached him with a petition. "I have accepted it and assured them that action will be taken against those who are encroaching on the lake. After looking into the petition, I will issue a 'stop work' notice to the temple authorities," he said.
 
 
