CHENNAI:   garnered nearly 60% of the votes polled in TN in the  , that too without even a   in the state assembly. 

 The BJP received the full support of all the three factions in the  , except one MLA as per the final data released by the Election Commission. The status of MPs’ votes is not known as the EC has not released data on MPs’ voting. BJP’s lone MP from the state, Pon Radhakrishnan also voted in Chennai. MPs from other parties had voted in Delhi.
 
 “In Tamil Nadu, one MLA has cross voted in favour of UPA presidential candidate Meira Kumar. There are 134 votes in favour of President-elect   and 98 votes in favour of Meira Kumar,” said an Election Commission official.
 
 Strength of the AIADMK, including that of assembly speaker P Dhanapal as per the 2016 assembly election results is 136. With the R K Nagar constituency remaining vacant, the total tally of the AIADMK and its three allies is 135, but only 134 votes were polled in favour of Kovind on July 17.
 
 Similarly, in the DMK-Congress-IUML combine, the total number of MLAs of the three parties is 98. But   chief M Karunanidhi did not vote. The UPA’s tally should have been 97, but one MLA from the ruling combine voted in favour of Meira Kumar, taking her tally to 98.
 
 Before the Presidential poll, AIADMK ally Manithaneya Jananayaga Katchi chief Tamimum Ansari had said he would not vote for the NDA candidate as the Centre had imposed conditions on trade of cattle. “We found that Ansari voted for the UPA candidate and due to that the tally has come down for AIADMK,” said the EC official.
 
 AIADMK is upset that an MLA, who won on the party symbol, has defied the party in the Presidential poll. “If Amma had been alive, would Ansari have dared to vote against the party stand? Since the party is divided and we only have a chief minister and no party chief, allies are not towing the party line,” rued a senior AIADMK leader in the CM’s group.
 
 Meanwhile, political parties in Tamil Nadu have congratulated the President-elect. “I wish to convey my heartiest congratulations to you on your resounding victory in the election to the post of President of India,” said chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. Similarly, DMK working president M K Stalin, in a message, wished Kovind on behalf of the party and its president M Karunanidhi. “I congratulate you on your victory. I hope that you would uphold the secular and diverse culture of the country,” said Stalin. Former chief minister O Pannerselvam has also wished the President-elect.
 
 
