NAGPUR: Melody and poetry came together on the second day of   memorial   at   on Saturday. Bhav Swaranjali, a concert based on the best known works of five poets — Suresh Bhat, Raja Badhe, Grace, Anil and Purushottam Darvekar — was presented by ten talented city singers. That all five poets belonged to the city made the event special.

 “Writings of these poets marked a turning point in Marathi poetry which till then was all about devotional and spiritual compositions,” said anchor Kishor Galande. He took the audience through the works of these poets as he narrated numerous anecdotes behind the making of these popular songs and also mentioned that barring Raja Badhe who moved to Mumbai, the other four lived in Dhantoli. As singers presented songs like ‘Aatach amrutachi,’ ‘Chandane shimpit jashi,’ ‘Ti geli tevha’ and ‘Majhya pritichya phula’ penned by Suresh Bhat, Raja Badhe, Grace and Anil, the audience comprising a good number of senior citizens soaked in the magic of an era gone by.
 
 These poets broke the mindset that all talented artists and writers come from Mumbai and Pune, Galande said. “They forced others to notice Vidarbha and their writings were happily accepted by the Mangeshkar family who composed and sang the poetry,” Galande added. They wrote differently. Raja Badhe was considered to be the king of bhavgeet while Suresh Bhat’s compositions were soaked in shringar raas, those of Grace were a mixture of fast changing thoughts and Atmaram Raoji Deshpande ‘Anil’ excelled in the style of ten line poetries that he created.
 
 Also paying a tribute to the late classical musician was another event which was staged at Mangalay Abhijaat Sangeetalay, Bajaj Nagar, on Sunday morning. The event was organized by Pt   and had city’s well known classical vocalist Chitra Modak making a presentation. Starting with a bandish in raag Nat Bhairav, Modak presented bada khayal ‘Main toh nikli paniya bharen ko’ in raag Jaunpuri. She concluded the presentation with a Holi in raag Mishr Piloo, ‘Holi khelan kaise jaaun’ and another composition in Mishr Bhairav, ‘Naina morey taras gaye’. 
 
 The event is organized every three months to pay tributes to Deshkar and features classical singers from the city. “It is extremely satisfying to make a presentation in memory of our guru,” says Modak after the conclusion of the event which was seventh in the series. Deshkar passed away two years back and his birth anniversary was observed on March 13.
 
