Mumbai:   on Monday   senior  , S M Dwivedi, for alleged   when he was assistant municipal commissioner of N ward (Ghatkopar).

 Dwivedi had allegedly given construction permission on a plot reserved as RG (recreational ground) at Sainath Nagar in Ghatkopar (W) and had also favoured a builder to get additional FSI. Dwivedi was unavailable for comment.
 
 Mehta also told the inquiry department to probe a ‘‘criminal angle’’ into allegations against Dwivedi. The department will probe if Dwivedi supported illegal activities in exchange for a bribe.
 
 Mehta had last December warned some ward officers (assistant municipal commissioners) of suspension if they do not initiate action against encroachments in their areas and make footpaths pedestrian-friendly. During his visit to those areas, Mehta had found footpaths in bad condition and illegal encroachments. Dwivedi’s ward was among them.
 
 Most ward officials took the warning seriously and initiated action against encroachments. An official stated that the condition in Dwivedi’s area remained same as it was earlier. Mehta had also received several complaint where Dwivedi had allegedly supported the illegal encroachment. An official stated that the public open space is very sensitive issue for the civic authority, despite of that Dwivedi had given a 5,000 sft structure construction permission on plot reserved for public open space in Sainath Nagar and it annoyed Mehta.
 
 Recently, Mehta shunted out Dwivedi from N-ward and ordered a deputy municipal commissioner to inquire about the allegations. The inquiry concluded that apart from allowing a structure on the reserved public open space , Dwivedi had also helped a builder to get free FSI from the BMC. The builder was supposed to construct a road and drainage system close to his upcoming project, in lieu of that   had promised him additional FSI.
 
 But, the builder had not completed the work, despite of that Dwivedi informed earlier   that the road-drainage work had been completed which helped the builder to get the additional promised FSI.
 
 An official said that it’s rare instance in the recent past when the civic administration itself had suspended a senior officer on corruption allegation.
 
