NEW DELHI: Saturday turned out to be a soothing day for   superstar  . 44 hours after landing in the Capital, Durant fulfilled his wish that brought him to India - visit  .

 A day after conducting a record-breaking coaching clinic with 3459 Indian kids, a weary-looking Durant spent Friday night at the Jaypee Greens resort in Greater Noida, which would help him to avoid Delhi traffic the next day.
 
 On his second morning in India, Durant and his crew left for Agra at around 8 am. After a nearly two-hour road trip the two-time MVP of the NBA reached his destination and India’s most popular tourist attraction - Taj Mahal.
 
 Since cameras are not allowed inside the Taj, Durant and his crew took a handful of pictures from the outskirts with the 81-meter tall ‘symbol of love’ as a background.
 
 Durant sat on a bench outside the world’s most famous monument of love for his first live picture with the Taj Mahal. Amidst tight security, the Champion Golden State Warrior was given a VIP treatment and was provided special entrance at the Taj Mahal. 
 
 Engrossed with the beauty inside, Durant was tight-lipped for most part of his visit but the 28-year-old was seen greeting his followers too. For a few minutes he rested over a bar capturing the beauty on his mobile.
 
 Durant’s VIP tour of Taj Mahal lasted for about an hour then he with his crew had lunch at a special suite of Oberoi Amar Villas that has a balcony overlooking the Taj. Durant and his agent, who is like his brother,   clicked some pictures from the balcony where NBA-India brought the 2017 title winning trophy – The Larry O'Brien NBA Championship Trophy. 
 
 After clicking a picture Kleiman tweeted his first photograph in India saying, “Larry and the Taj”.
 
 Around 2pm Durant and his crew left Agra for Greater Noida where he had a small and pending interactive session with the 22 NBA academy players before flying back home late in the night.
 
 While appreciating the Indian hospitality and love the Superstar said, “It’s been overwhelming to be honest, it’s so much love here and is definitely appreciated by me.” 
 
 On his 60-hour sojourn and a first holiday in India, Durant hopes to comeback with regular visits in the country. Durant wants to have a similar influence in India as the impact   had in China 
 
 While signing off and giving a hope to many Indian cagers he said, “I just be myself. So just I can do and come out here and be myself and hopefully people see the passion that I have for people and for the game. Hopefully, I can come back and specially more. My first visit has gone well. The greatest thing is that my people felt comfortable here, so let’s see what happens.”
 
