NEW DELHI: Kick-starting a nationwide crackdown on thousands of   engaged in laundering black money allegedly belonging to several corporate houses and politicians, the   (ED) on Saturday conducted searches aimed against 300 such firms at 110 different locations spanning 16 states.

 The shell companies searched included those associated with NCP’s jailed functionary and Maharashtra former deputy chief minister Chhagan Bhujbal, prominent Andhra Pradesh politician and chief of YSR Congress Jaganmohan Reddy, an allegedly politically resourceful former chief engineer of NOIDA and some entities linked to Uttar Pradesh’s National Rural Health Mission scam.
 
 The raids covered Kolkata, Mumbai, Delhi, Bengaluru, Chennai, Patna, Ahmedabad and Bhubaneswar among other cities. In Delhi, the premises of a chartered accountant on Barakhamba Road was searched and it was found that he had floated more than 200 shell companies.
 
 The CA had given “accommodation entries” to many people in UP, including a top politician who fared disastrously in the just-held assembly polls and also those engaged in illegal sand mining. Mumbai resident Jagdish Prasad Purohit “admitted” to the ED that he ran 700 shell companies and provided “accommodation entries” to Bhujbal for over Rs 47 crore.
 
 Searches on Rajeshwar Exports revealed what ED called “specific details” of the firm sending Rs 1,476 crore to Hong Kong for importing diamonds which were found to be “ grossly overvalued”. The company has been under scrutiny for its alleged links with some prominent politicians in Delhi.
 
 “In another case, a shell company was found to have exported carpets to its sister concern incorporated outside India. The export proceeds were never realised and the person behind these companies moved the RBI to write off outstanding export proceeds,” said the ED press statement.
 
 Institutional money laundering by “dormant” companies, suspected to be anywhere between six to seven lakh in number, has been seen as the biggest challenge before this government. Many of these companies have carried out high-value transactions and deposited huge cash in banks during the period after demonetisation of high value currency notes.
 
 The government has involved all major revenue intelligence agencies in the exercise, including the income tax, Securities and Exchange Board of India, the RBI, the intelligence bureau and the corporate affairs ministry to cleanse the suspected 6-7 lakh companies out of a total of 15 lakh registered with the RoC, sources said.
 
 The wealth of information on these “dormant” companies have also been gathered through an extensive exercise by the income tax which had recently carried out several search and survey operations across the country.
 
 
