JAIPUR: Poor quality of construction of city roads was exposed when after heavy downpour, cave-ins and damages were witnessed on many arterial routes.

 A major accident was averted near Chomu Circle as 30 feet deep trench was created after the road caved-in. The incident occurred in late night on Monday. A tree and electricity pole was also uprooted when the road caved in. Residents believe that a major tragedy was averted, as it was a busy road and people park cars on the stretch which caved in.
 
 While no casualties were reported, the civic body cordoned off the area and diverted the traffic. JMC officials attributed the sewage overflow as the reason behind the incident.
 
 Meanwhile, residents of Sanganer continued to face inconvenience as civic body failed to repair the Sanga Setu bridge even after 24 hours. The bridge connects many colonies of Sanganer, Mansarovar with Tonk Road. The repair was hampered due to the internal fights between   (JMC) and Rajasthan Housing Board ( ).
 
 On Tuesday morning, the JMC officials reached the spot and started the repair work. After a while, JMC chief directed the officials to discontinue work claiming that the area falls in RHB’s periphery. However, RHB claimed that sewerage line, which is connected to sewerage treatment plant (STP) near Chauradiya petrol pump was transferred to JMC few years ago.
 
 Rains were another example of the dismal condition of the city's infrastructure that has left the residents in lurch. They were seen wading through submerged roads in Raja Park, Hanuman Nagar and Pratap Nagar. In other areas, the roads disintegrated due to waterlogging. Residents staying in posh colonies are also facing inconvenience due to waterlogging during monsoon season as water is flowing into the houses in absence of proper drainage channel.
 
 The heavy rains also took a toll on areas such as Chandi Ki Taksal, Amber Road Choti Chaupar and low lying areas of Jhotwara, Khatipura and Sikar Road where roads were submerged in water.
 
