LUCKNOW: The demand for a white paper on the   for privately owned heritage homes situated in Lucknow, was made by citizens and   at the concluding day of the   festival, on Tuesday. 

 Laying out the problems and the way forward for such a conservation, it was also suggested at the literary panel, 'Can historic homes of Lucknow be saved by FICCI-FLO’, that a pressure group of heritage enthusiasts be formed for bringing about awareness in owners, providing expert advise and link funding options. 
 
 Putting solutions forward, Prof Vandana Sehgal, dean and head of the architecture department of APJ Kalam Technical University (AKTU), said, “Government should list these properties, grade them in categories A, B and C as is done with protected monuments under which the changes that can and cannot be made to a structure are put in force, educate owners on maintaining these houses and give incentives such as house tax rebate to owners for maintenance.” On public awareness, she said that while old homes are made with lime mortar that needs to breath, use of plastic paint on it leads to seepage issues. 
 
 Padma Shri Sunita Kohli highlighted that listing would not be a difficult task, given that INTACH already has a listing format for monuments, which can be adapted for homes in Lucknow too. “The best practical example to take up as a policy would be the one by Mumbai's municipal corporation,” she said. “There is an urgent need for awareness and restoration by public and private set-ups before we lose all heritage,” said author Adity Chakravarty.
 
 Speaking about the restoration work done at the Habibullah estate, turning a part of it into a boutique retail space as an example, Jyostna Kaur Habibullah said, “We should form a focus group, extending advise to those interested in restoring their heritage properties, making them financially viable spaces by helping owners link up with brands willing to adhere to a heritage property.” 
 
 Interior designer, Nayab Bakshi, who has also turned a private bungalow into a heritage hotel said, “We had great difficulties keeping the old charm of the place intact. There should be more such efforts made instead of pulling these properties down for high rise apartments.”
 
