MUMBAI: In a relief to  , the Bombay   on Friday continued its order to restrain state authorities from cancelling the provisional admissions granted for 2016-17 to students aged above 20 in case of five-year integrated LLB courses and above 30 years in case of three-year LLB courses. 

  and another student had moved the HC to challenge the Bar Council of Indi’s age bar, which was being sought to be imposed by the state government by granting only provisional admissions to such students. The BCI had in September 2016 said that students above 20 years and 30 years cannot be granted admission to the five-year and three-year LLB courses respectively.
 
 A bench headed by Chief Justice Manjula Chellur after hearing advocates appearing for the Bar Council and advocate Yasmin Tavaria who had herself filed a public interest litigation on the age bar issue to challenge the BCI rule said she would wait for the report of a new committee. The BCI appointed a committee headed by a former SC judge to take a look at the legal issues surrounding the age bar on law school admissions. The HC adjourned the matter by few weeks to enable the committee report to come in. The committee will advice the BCI on the issue. 
 
 The Maharashtra State Law Common Entrance Test (CET) had in its prospectus said that “candidates who do not fit in the above age criteria will be given provisional admission subject to final approval from BCI or the state law department.’’ The students had moved court to challenge the age bar provisions.
 
 At the last hearing Venkatesh Dhond said unless the prosectus is stayed, the admissions already granted may be jeopardised.
 
 Advocate Tavaria had last September challenged the constitutional validity of the BCI age-bar rule. 
 
 Amit Sali, counsel for BCI, had earlier tendered its 110-page reply in court. He had said, “We want to streamline the law admissions. We want committed people to come in…’’ The chief justice said, “Are you saying those who join a few years later are not committed?” 
 
 There are divergent judgments on the issue, with Bombay high court, Allahabad HC and Punjab & Haryana HC agreeing that setting an age bar is not right while Madurai HC holding that removal of the age limit by BCI was not proper.
 
