BHUBANESWAR: Nearly three weeks after the state Crime Branch (CB) interrogated chief of Odisha Stevedores Limited (OSL) Mahimananda Mishra in connection with the alleged kidnapping of a manager of J M Baxi & Co, a stevedoring agency, at Paradip in 1995, the   now suspect the business tycoon's alleged link with the mysterious disappearance of another employee of the same firm in 2005. 

 Niranjan Padhi, a resident of Chhatrapur in  , continues to remain missing since December 2005. Padhi was supervisor with  , police said. Though Padhi's family had lodged a complaint against some unknown persons a few days after he went missing, the police have since made little headway.
 
 "We are in touch with Ganjam police to gather information on whether anyone from OSL was involved in Padhi's mysterious disappearance. The matter is being examined," SP (Jagatsinghpur) Jai Narayan Pankaj said. SP (Ganjam) Ashish Kumar Singh said he will verify the angle.
 
 Padhi's daughter Sunita alleged her father had been receiving threat calls from some persons, who introduced themselves as representatives of the OSL. "In December 2005, we had lodged a complaint against unknown persons at Chamakhandi police station in Ganjam after my father went missing. In the complaint, we had mentioned how the unknown persons claimed themselves to be OSL representatives. After some days, we were forced to withdraw the complaint as we were threatened by goons," Sunita told TOI. 
 
 "We again lodged a fresh complaint in 2015 at Arjipalli police station in Ganjam. We seek justice. We strongly suspect my father was murdered," she said. OSL officials could not be contacted for comment. 
 
 Sources said the Jagatsinghpur police will soon send a team to Haldia in West Bengal after receiving information that Padhi had last contacted his family from Haldia a few days after he became incommunicado. Mahima Mishra was a prime suspect in the 1995 abduction of Baxi company's manager Pratap Chandra Das. 
 
 Das was allegedly kidnapped from a hotel in Paradeep on July 13, 1995. Though crime branch had investigated the case, they had given a clean chit to Mishra. The case was then closed as there was no evidence against Mishra. 
 
 After Mishra's arrest last month in connection with murder of Seaways Shipping executive Mahendra Swain, the crime branch reportedly reopened the case and interrogated Mishra on January 3.
 
 So far, the police found at least 13 cases, including abduction, murder and attempt to murder, against Mishra, who enjoyed immense clout in power circle. 
 
