Lawyers and judges squared off against one another, this time on a cricket ground instead of the courtroom, when the   and the Chief Justice XI played against each other in their annual   at a floodlit Kotla stadium this Saturday.

  
    President RS Suri bats as Supreme Court judge Justice L Nageshwar keeps wickets (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
 
 The IPL might be a week away from making its presence felt in Delhi, but the T20 season kicked-off at   this Saturday night with another high-profile, though slightly different, game. Lawyers and judges squared off against one another, this time on a cricket ground instead of the courtroom, when the Supreme Court Bar Association XI and the Chief Justice XI played against each other in their annual T20 cricket match at a floodlit Kotla stadium.
 
 
 Chief Justice of India Jagdish Singh Khehar was the chief guest of the evening and also the non-playing captain of the CJI XI. He opened the proceedings by facing the opening ball of the match as his team batted first. "We have organised this game to be a stress-buster for the bar and the bench," he said.
 
  
  Justice  , Supreme Court judge and the CJI XI team captain (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
 
  
  (L-R)Justice Kurian Joseph, Justice Deepak Gupta and Justice   (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
  
  Justice Deepak Mishra, Supreme Court, bowls the ceremonial first ball of the SCBA XI innings and Justice Abhay Manohar Sapre, Supreme Court (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
  
  Justice  , Chandigarh HC and Justice S Muralidhar, Delhi High Court (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
  
  Advocate Yasobant Das opens the innings for SCBA XI and Senior advocate   bats (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
  
  Justice TPS Mann, Chandigarh High Court (L and inset) and Justice  , Delhi High Court (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
  
  Justice Ashok Bhushan, Supreme Court and Gaurav Bhatia, secretary, Supreme Court Bar Association (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
 
 
 For many, it was their first time playing serious cricket in decades. Senior advocate RS Suri, president, Supreme Court Bar Association, and the non-playing captain of the SCBA XI, told us that he had picked up a bat for the first time after class 5. He said, "I am playing for the first time since the gully cricket days of my childhood. It's good because this improves communication between the bar and the bench. After the tense proceedings in the courtroom, you need a breather like this."
 
 
 
 The action on the field was as intense as any T20 game the ground has hosted. True to the spirit of the courtroom, appeals flowed freely and judgments (by umpires) were swift. The CJI XI batted first and scored an impressive 135 runs in their 20 overs, courtesy some hitting by Justice Najmi Waziri and Justice Rakesh Jain. The SCBA XI started strongly in response and had no trouble reaching the target comfortably, winning the prestigious match (and bragging rights) for the second year in a row. Supreme Court judge and the CJI XI team captain Justice Madan Lokur said, "The contrast between the field and the court is immense. These are two different worlds, but it's good to step into this world for a day and forget the seriousness of the court for a few hours." Gaurav Bhatia, honorary secretary, SCBA, added, "These are priceless moments for everyone and the match was played with great spirit and camaraderie. The strong bond between the honourable judges and lawyers is what all of us cherish the most. Special thanks to Justice Vikramjit Singh and the DDCA for their support in organising the match."
  
 
