BENGALURU: As the mystery shrouding   officer  's death in Lucknow last week deepens, the vacancy his   has left has led to   in the   

 According to sources in the food and civil supplies department, the prolonged absence of Tewari from office because of personal reasons, even before his death, has led to a number of uncleared files in the commissionerate. Among the prominent ones is approval of Rs 18 crore towards ration shops owners who are supposed to get a commission for the services they provide. The fair price shopowners are now threatening shutdown from next month owing to the long delay.
 
 Tewari was supposed to have returned from his mid-career training and leave on May 5, said the sources. He had applied for a month's leave till the beginning of May. As a result, the government had made the registrar of cooperative societies, M K Aiyappa, commissioner in-charge. After Aiyappa was relieved on May 5 so that he could focus on his core department of cooperation, Tewari had once again sought leave extension till June 5. Unable to extend his leave any further, chief secretary Subhash Chandra Khuntia cancelled Tewari's leave and asked him to resume his duties immediately. Now, with Tewari dead and Aiyappa relieved of his duties, the absence of a commissioner has put all files on hold. "Tewari's absence from office, even before his death, has held up several files awaiting clearance from the commissioner. A new commissioner will have to be appointed for the department to clear the files," sources said.
 
 While the department deputed an in-charge commissioner, it's difficult to ask him to clear files as he may be overly cautious in dealing with serious issues such as release of payments. Earlier in April, the government transferred senior IAS officer Harsh Gupta to Kalaburagi as regional commissioner. But considering he is well versed with the PDS system, Gupta remains to be in-charge of the food and civil supplies department.
 
 Food and civil supplies minister U T Khader said the government was functioning with a deputy director in-charge and was seeking a replacement for Tewari.
 
 
