BENGALURU: An   biker couple came to know the hard way that even if you live in an upscale area in the city, there is no guarantee that you will not get beaten up for doing what you like ­ if the people around you do not approve. The couple was reportedly rounded up and questioned by the apartment residents for taking their bikes out in the night. The argument ended in both the parties trading blows at each other. The couple and the flat owners have filed a complaint and counter complaint against each other. The couple, who are in the city on vacation from UAE, had purchased a Harley Davidson and a Royal Enfield Himalayan bike and used to go on night rides as during the day the roads are jampacked. But the sound from the vehicles caused much nuisance to the aged and the children of the apartment -so much so that the residents decided to confront them.

 Twenty-six-year-old Kusuma Nagaraj, an interior designer, and her 32-year-old software encryption engineer husband Abdul Salim moved to the city just four months and were staying in a flat at the Mahaveer Desire apartments opposite the   railway station.
 
 "We go for late night rides as were unable to enjoy our rides during the day. The motor cycles have not been altered. If the residents had problems with the sound made by the motor cycles, the association should have e-mailed us or should have communicated with us.Instead, nearly 20 of them got together and beat us both," Kusuma told BM. The couple are undergoing treatment for the injuries they sustained in the incident that occurred around 12.05 am last week.
 
 "We will shift out of the apartment before we leave the country. It was a scary experience. We suspect that the sound as claimed by the residents might be from some other bikes in the apartment and not from ours. Many students too stay in the apartment, whose bikes it could have been," Salim told BM.
 
 However, 43-year-old Palachandra Gowda, who has filed a complaint against the couple, said that it was the couple that has been creating nuisance for three to four days. "There are 160 flats in the apartment and most residents are troubled by the sounds. I stay on the ninth floor and the sound of the bikes wakes my son from sleep. The worst affected are the aged people, who stay on the first floor. The son of the aged person had even pleaded with the couple to stop creating the late night nui sance. The couple beat up the   ( ) president and others and a complaint has been registered against them," Gowda said. The Soladevanahally police have registered a complaint and counter complaint in this regard.Following the complaint by the couple, a case of assault on woman with intent to outrage her modesty (IPC 354), causing hurt by dangerous weapons (IPC 324), wrongful restraint (IPC 341) along with other sections of   has been registered against those residents who are alleged to have assaulted them.A case of causing hurt by dangerous weapons (IPC 324), intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace (IPC 504), criminal intimidation (IPC 506) along with other sections of the IPC has been registered against the couple based on the complaint filed by one of the residents.
 
 "The case is in the preliminary stages of investigations. We are yet to go through the CCTV footage.We will also summon an expert to find out if the motor cycles have undergone any kind of alteration," said an officer.
 
