A video by an Indian-origin American woman aggressively confronting US press secretary   has gone viral on social media. In the video, she is heard asking Spicer from behind the camera what it is like to “work for a fascist”. 

 A smiling Spicer says “thank you” and looks the other way. He is eventually heard telling her, “Such a great country that allows you to be here.” The questions and Spicer’s comment has prompted an avalanche of online reactions with support and hostility equally divided.
 
 The woman,  , 33, who heads an education startup that empowers parents to lead changes in schools and communities from Washington DC, uploaded the 50-second video on her Twitter and Medium accounts on Monday. By Tuesday, it had over 1.3 million views.
 
 Recounting the episode, she wrote about how she was at a local store to get her phone fixed when she spotted Spicer.
 
 “I realized what an enormous opportunity it was to get answers without the protections normally given to Spicer. I was honestly quite nervous and wanted to come up with more cogent questions but did not have time to do so,” reads her blog post, where she also mentions her earlier political activism against the Trump government’s policies.
 
 She then proceeded to switch on her phone camera and shoot a video of Spicer as she lobbed questions at him.
 
 “How is it to work for a fascist? Have you helped with the Russia stuff ? Have you committed treason too? Just like the president?” she is heard asking off camera as Spicer smiles at her and repeatedly mutters “Thank you.” As she persists, he says, “Such a great country that allows you to be here”.
 
 Chauhan said she heard the audio over and over to make sure that was what he said. “That is racism and it is an implied threat. Think about the sheer audacity of Spicer to say that to my face with a smile, knowing that he that he is being recorded on video and the position of power he holds in our government,” she said of Spicer’s comment.
 
 Sharing the video on Twitter, Chauhan wrote, “Asking @PressSec questions in   Store since he doesn’t like the press”. She was referring to the adversarial relationship US President Donald Trump’s administration has with the US media. Trump’s chief strategist   has called the press the “opposition party” on record. 
 
 Last month, several media outlets such as The Guardian, BBC, and CNN were denied entry to an off-camera press briefing at the  . Reactions to the video were divided. “This vile Indian woman, Shree Chauhan, @shreec abused Sean Spicer at an Apple Store,” wrote @Portosj81 on Twitter. 
 
 However, another Twitter user @Alt_FedEmployee, whose account description reads “Hates Trump” wrote: “1. Lady harassed Sean Spicer the way trumpsters (sic) harass women every day. 2. Spicer admits Trump lied. Guess which trumpsters are focused on?”
 
