GUWAHATI: The death toll in floods rose to 53 on Friday with three more bodies retrieved from Dhemaji, Dhubri and Nagaon districts. 

 However, the overall flood situation improved slightly with the number of affected people coming down to 14,97,352 on Friday from 17.43 lakh on Thursday. At present, 25 districts covering 2,240 villages are reeling from floods and nearly 80,000 hectares of cropland are still under water. Over 25,000 people have taken shelter in various relief camps in the affected districts. 
 
 As on Friday, South Salmara district in lower Assam is the worst hit with over 3 lakh people battling with the deluge, followed by Morigaon where over 2 lakh people have been hit. 
 
 The prospect of more floods looms large with the Brahmaputra and its tributaries flowing above the danger mark in several places of the state. The   river in Karimganj district is also flowing above the danger mark.
 
 On Friday, chief chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal had a meeting with NF Railway general manager   here for taking the help of railways to transport relief materials for the affected people. Railway minister   had already instructed the Railways to to assist the state government in dealing with the situation. 
 
 Ram has promised that the NF Railway would extend all possible help to the administration to restore communication links snapped due to floods. Union power minister Piyush Goyal also assured of helping Sonowal. 
 
 Governor   on Friday visited the flood-hit   district and interacted with people. He has asked the district administration to ensure that all the affected people get adequate relief materials, including baby food. The governor also asked the district administration to provide sufficient doctors and para-medical staff for camp inmates. 
 
 The scale of damage to infrastructure has increased with new embankments, roads, bridges and culverts getting washed away in the last few days. Many places are still cut off from rest parts of the state after roads and bridges were damaged. Even as floodwaters showed a receding trend, erosion is continuing to a pose threat to human lives and properties. 
 
 
