CHANDIGARH: The story of how   president Captain Amarinder Singh’s detractors started attacking him for being a member of the erstwhile   has been narrated in his authorised biography, ‘Captain  : The People’s Maharaja’.

 “The election posters projected him as Maharaja Amarinder Singh (for 1980 Lok Sabha that he won from Patiala) and the opposition was quick to use this horrific image against him. His perceived and often real inaccessibility to the public, consequent to his royal standing would, become the main poll plank. The charge has stuck till today. The posters, however, now term him as Captain Amarinder Singh,” reads the book written by Chandigarh-based author Khushwant Singh.
 
 The book also delves into the politics that was at play when the former CM was parachuted as the Congress candidate from Amritsar in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. “Come 2014 and it wasn’t only Amarinder strategizing his future moves. His detractors within Congress, too, had a smart plan up their sleeves to ‘exile’ him from Punjab’s political scene forever. With run-up to the 2014 general elections indicating a distinct wave in favour of Narendra Modi, a scheme was devised to push for Amarinder Singh’s candidature as Lok Sabha candidate from a constituency that was an Akali Dal BJP stronghold. The thinking was that another electoral loss would be enough to script Amarinder’s political obituary,” it reads.
 
  “Interestingly, it wasn’t only a section in the Congress but also a faction within the BJP was eager to see that Amarinder contested from Amritsar. This faction wanted Jaitley to lose the election. Such political subterfuges across party lines were building up and leading to circumstances beyond Amarinder’s control. The last straw came when Sonia Gandhi spoke to him over the phone. ‘Will you fight for me Amarinder?’ is what she emphatically asked,” it reads.
 
 The biography also traces the uncertainty over Amarinder’s political future after he quit from Parliament and Congress over Operation Bluestar on July 10, 1984. “The Congress upped its ante against Amarinder. There were a series of press releases condemning the erstwhile scion of Patiala’s decision. Several Congress leaders hailed the Army action. In a joint statement, they declared that the resignation was a ‘direct encouragement’ to anti-national and communal forces. The resignation… elevated, among a majority of Sikhs the position of the Patiala scion, who till then could only win in his home constituency,” it reads.
 
 
 
 
 The chapter titled ‘Imperfections and Perfections’ attempts to make an objective analysis of Amarinder’s regime as CM. “The five-year term that started on a rather positive note for Amarinder Singh in February 2002 had started looking like a lost opportunity by the advent of 2004. Amarinder, who had begun his tenure with great expectations, appeared to be sliding into despair.”
 
 “The general perception, which was vehemently refuted by Suresh Kumar, his principal secretary, was that he could not synchronize well the demands of the people and his personal life in a manner that would give total control over the state as chief minister. His inability to kick start the day early only gave him less time to attend to mounting issues of the state.”
 
 It adds: “Very few people with genuine grievances could reach him for redressal due to the various layers of coterie around him. Those who managed to break through the cordon were helped immediately.”
 
 
 
 
 As part of the holiday (in 2007) were friends from Pakistan, one an attractive, fifty-year-old journalist Aroosa Alam. He had met her earlier in 2006 at the South Asia Free Media Association (SAFMA) summit in Jalandhar. Following that meeting, their friendship had blossomed in the years ahead. And predictably, this bond of affection between the two stirred up a storm in both countries. “...Aroosa Alam also created a furore within the family, who found it unfathomable and hurtful to see the patriarch distance himself from them.”
 
 
 
 
 “It is a very cold night. Until Santji returns, Maharaja Sahib you can take some rest and keep warm by covering yourself in one of the quilts, said the sewadar trying his best to be as hospitable as possible to the two royals. “Perhaps I can claim to be the only person to have slept in Jarnail Singh Bhindrawale’s bed other than him,” quips Amarinder while describing the long wait for him.
 
 
 
 
 One of the two chapters on Amarinder’s bete noire, chief minister Parkash Singh Badal, points out, “It is ironic that when a public man indulges in corruption, the man on the streets suddenly turns sympathetic towards him or her when the government starts investigating the case…The saddest part is that the main issue of corruption has got sidelined.”
 
 
 
 
 “When in office, Amarinder also survived a conspiracy to assassinate him near Gurdwara Nada Sahib in Panchkula. Luckily for him, he did not turn up for the event where an ambush to kill him had been set up by some militants. ‘Something kept telling me not to go and I decided not to go,’ confides Amarinder,” the book reads.
 
