PUNE: Twelve-year-old Arnav Herlekar knows that a book can give wings to imagination.

 A lover of fiction, the student of   loves getting lost in the world of books. The day care that he attends at Maharashtra Knowledge Corporation Limited office is one of the volunteer organisations that borrow books from the state government-recognised Pune   Granthalaya to run a free library.
 
 With reading habits of kids dwindling, Pune Marathi Granthalaya is making attempts to get books back in fashion by setting up a cluster of free libraries in and around the city.
 
 Started in 1981, ‘Vasantik Mofat Balvachnalaya’ is an initiative held during summer vacations every year to encourage children to read. Though the initiative mainly focuses on children, people from any age group are free to visit these libraries. Starting with 20 libraries in the initial year, this year 40 organisations / individuals have approached Pune Marathi Granthalaya to set up libraries. Of these, 23 are within the city while 17 are in the surrounding rural areas.
 
 “Children cannot be faulted for not developing the habit of reading. They learn from what they see. Parents hardly have time to read books these days, so it is unfair to expect children to develop this habit. At least through this initiative books will reach the children,” said Sudhir Inamdar, a member of Pune Marathi Granthalaya.
 
 Under this initiative any person/organisation willing to open a free library has to approach Pune Marathi Granthalay before April and fill an application form. Before April 14, books are given to these volunteers and they are also given reimbursement for their commute. The library gives 120 books to each volunteer who wishes to set up a free library. The books can be exchanged after every 15 days.
 
 “We ask them specifications like which genre of books they prefer to read, what is the age group of children who come to read etc. Based on the answers, we give them books. We usually consider Class V children as the base but there are books for younger children too,” he said.
 
 Rutuja Gaikwad, an 11-year- old student from Stella Maris School, said, “We are free to do whatever we want here and I prefer to read. During school days, I only get to read textbooks but these books have nice stories and colourful pictures. I like reading them.” Gaikwad also attends the MKCL day care centre.
 
 Sanjana Shah, who supervises the day care at MKCL, said, “I got to know about this initiative from a parent who knew about my love for reading. I regretted not knowing about it for the last many years. I try and tell as many people as possible so that children can benefit from this initiative.” Shah, who is a teacher, has been borrowing books for children for the last two years.
 
 She said that keeping books around children prompt them to glance through them. The day care that she supervises has children from the age of three to 13 years. “Out of the 120, I chose to take 100 Marathi and 20   books. All the children here go to English medium schools, I try to read out Marathi books to them so that they develop a love for their state language,” she added.
 
