NEW DELHI:   under the   category’s   started on Saturday and for sport’s quota it is expected to begin from  .

 Depending on the student turnout under the first merit list, colleges will release the remaining few lists based on the availability of seats.
 
 Most colleges received 200 to 400 applications under the ECA and sport’s category. Of these, around 20 students have been offered admissions under the   and a little over 30 students were offered seats under sport’s quota. The level of competition has dismayed even students who have ranked second or third under the ECA category as they either missed out on their choice of course or college. 
 
 “After the students decide on their final choice we will have more seats to accommodate most people on the merit list,” said Shalini, DU’s admission in-charge for ECA.
 
 Admission committee members said that students get seats depending on their merit and the course they have opted for. As per the merit list, if a student has not applied for a popular course, they are more likely to get admission in their choice of college as courses like English, economics, political science, commerce and psychology was offered only to those who secured the first few ranks. 
 
 “As per university rules, it is upon the discretion of the colleges to double the number of seats offered to students for few courses. We have offered a course to more than one student following this directive,” said an admission committee member at Ramjas College. In the first list the college has offered courses like English and political science to two students each. Maximum students are expected to take admission on Monday after withdrawing their applications filed earlier under the general category.
 
 Shounak Banerjee, who secured the first rank in the Indian instrumental music category, got admission to the college of his choice. “I didn’t apply to other colleges and only registered for BSc (honours) statistics at Ramjas College as I was confident I would make it to the college of my choice,” he said. 
 
 However, other candidates are not as confident. Payel Mehta who applied under the sport’s category was not confident of getting the college and course of her choice so she visited over six colleges since morning to inquire about the lists. 
 
 “I had applied for psychology but then I got to know from volunteers that candidates who do not have a good rank won’t be given the choice of course so I applied even for Hindi in a few colleges,” said Mehta.
 
 
