Surat: Over three lakh workers employed in the powerloom, textile ancillaries and textile dyeing and printing mills in Sachin GIDC are literally living at the mercy of the God, if a big mishap takes place.  Sachin GIDC, which houses over 2,250 units including weaving, textile ancillaries and textile dyeing and printing mills, is without a proper hospital to take care of the workers’ health.  In the absence of a full-fledged hospital, the unit owners have to rush their workers, injured or severely ill, to the government or private hospitals located some 11 kilometre away from the GIDC. Sources said the GIDC had provided around 10,000 square meter land to a foundation for developing hospital facility in 1998. However, the caretakers failed to set up a hospital, and instead built a dispensary, which is ill-equipped to handle an emergency situation.  Sachin GIDC was established in 1964 on 703 hectare of land. At present, there are 2,250 units, including 1,750 textile units, 70 dyeing and printing mills, 40 dyes and chemical units, 50 engineering units and the rest are textile ancillary units.  Sachin GIDC has annual turnover exceeding Rs8,000 crore and it provides direct employment to over 3.5 lakh people in textile, chemical, textile processing and engineering units.  Last year, Sachin Industrial Cooperative Society Limited (SICSL) had shown interest in developing a state-of-the-art hospital project at an estimated cost of Rs5 crore on the existing land allotted by the GIDC for the hospital. However, the foundation running the dispensary is dilly-dallying on vacating the land.  Sachin Weavers’ Association president Mahendra Ramoliya said, “There are around five industrialists in Sachin GIDC who are among the top 10 taxpayers in the city. They are ready to fund the hospital project, but we are waiting for the foundation to vacate the land, which it is not doing. Workers and unit owners are suffering due to non-availability of hospital facilities. It is crucial during an emergency to rush the workers to a hospital on time or else their lives are at stake.” A GIDC officer said, “It’s the GIDC’s job to allot land and provide infrastructure facilities, but not the hospital. We had given the land for hospital, but there is a small dispensary now. It is up to the unit owners to join hands and develop a state-of-the-art hospital.”