JASSIA (Rohtak): Caught between Jat reservation protesters and armed   Police battalions for last 13 days, the Jassia village of Rohtak district is starting to show the signs of fatigue caused by tense environment. One of the first victims of the charged up situation are the students of   here. The All India Jat Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti (AIJASS) sit-in at Jassia is being held right outside the school along the National Highway-71A that connects Rohtak to Panipat.

 Hundreds of protesters at the dharna raise slogans of ‘Jat Ekta Zindabad’ the whole day, which is being repeated by the students of the school, located a stone’s throw away from the dharna site. “We have caught some students with ‘Jat Ekta Zindabad’ written on the backside of their notebooks and slips in their instrument boxes,” said a teacher of this school affiliated to the CBSE.
 
 Then there are those students who flaunt their caste (Jat) on social media like Facebook carrying forward the message in their own way to support the reservation demand for the community. When confronted by teachers, these students remains unapologetic about their new found love for the cause and repeat reasons they hear from the blaring loudspeaker at the dharna venue.
 
 The residential school has about 900 students from the state and outside. A majority of them are from Rohtak and neighbouring villages dominated by the Jat community.
 
 Several villagers whose wards study here are regular visitors to the dharna in Jassia. School starts at the same time when the protesters start to gather at the site. School authorities have to shut doors of classrooms to drown the voice of the activists administering oath of caste unity to the agitators. The situation becomes more serious during the high profile visitors, like Yashpal Malik who is the president of AIJASS.
 
 The school has installed high resolution cameras around the premises for security reasons to keep watch on their surroundings. With no other exit route, the buses carrying students have to pass through the sit-in venue while bringing them to school or dropping them off every day.
 
 Though the protesters’ committee extends cooperation to ask the crowd sitting on the way to clear the road for the school buses to pass, some parents remain anxious till their wards reach home. Their fears emanate from the fact that four private schools, located on NH-71A, had to face the brunt of Jat agitators during the stir for quota last year, when the protests turned violent in February.
 
 One of the officials of Duhan school, requesting anonymity, told TOI that they face a fear of less turnout for admissions this time due to the ongoing agitation. “The admission process started from February 1, while the dharna was in progress outside our building since January 30,” said an official of the school.
 
 School director Ashok Duhan said they were assured by AIJASS committee that the dharna would remain peaceful and no damage would be done to school in any situation. “I also come from same community to which protesters belong, and have requested them to protest peacefully,” he said.
 
 Rohtak deputy commissioner   said they were keeping a special tab on the school’s security and would not let protesters go in that direction.
 
 
