NEW DELHI: The   has filed a case against former Delhi   secretary  , a  , for alleged irregularities in handing over security of state government hospitals to three private companies. 

 CBI spokesperson R K Gaur said Seem hired three private security agencies for deployment of guards at Delhi government hospitals illegally, by violating tender provisions, transaction of business rules, ignoring CVC guidelines and without taking the approval of the LG. After registering a case, CBI teams carried out raids at Seem’s office at Delhi secretariat, his residence in Jasola, and offices of private companies in Delhi and Gurgaon. The agency claimed to have recovered crucial documents pertaining to the irregularities.
 
 Giving details of the FIR against Seem, CBI sources said three private companies – Knight Watch Security Pvt Ltd, Innovision Limited and SIS (India) Limited – were hired to provide security for six months on nomination basis by removing the old guards of Director General of Resettlement (DGR), which is a forum of retired military/security forces personnel and provides security to several government departments and PSUs.
 
 The three private companies were paid in excess of norms, which led to a loss of Rs 10.50 crore to the state exchequer. The CBI said DGR was much cheaper than the three companies hired by Seem. “In this particular case, pre-approval was not taken from the LG’s office for the tender. After the contract was discussed with the same companies which were to be given the work, the tender was sent for post facto approval to the state cabinet,” said a CBI officer. 
 
 Seem is director of the department of State Health Mission in Delhi government and operates from Delhi secretariat.Hours after the CBI raid, AAP accused the Modi government of misusing the agency against the party. Sanjay Singh, senior AAP leader, tweeted, “Soon, everything came to normal in the AAP; the central government today left its parrot (CBI) behind Satyender Jain. They kept on disturbing us and we kept on working.”
 
 Seem was made health secretary of Delhi government last year but Najeeb Jung had termed his appointment illegal and against the rules. Jung had found that Seem, an IRS officer, was holding the post meant for an IAS officer.
 
 The CBI has filed three FIRs and four preliminary enquiries related to illegal contracts and arbitrary appointments referred by former LG Najeeb Jung. The other two FIRs pertain to appointment of Nikunj Aggarwal by health minister Satyendar Jain as his OSD and the working of Delhi Waqf Board. 
 
 The PEs, which were based on the findings of the Shunglu panel, relate to appointment of Jain’s daughter Soumya in the health department, one against deputy CM Manish Sisodia for running ‘Talk to AK’ campaign, Feedback Unit started by Delhi government and hiring of architects in PWD. Apart from this, the CBI has registered a separate enquiry against Jain for allegedly laundering Rs 16 crore.
 
 
