Nagpur: In an unprecedented move, the Nagpur University has decided to allot special quota in its postgraduate departments for students from the Naxalite-infested Gadchiroli, who are enrolled with Gondwana University. Following direction from the chancellor Ch Vidyasagar Rao to vice-chancellor SP Kane, the NU would be reserving 20% seats each in Group A (Science courses) and Group B (Humanities). The Gondwana students will also get quota in Group C having LLM, MFA, MCom, Mass Communication, which was not part of centralized admission process (CAP) for NU. The Gondwana students, too, would need to directly approach these departments as they are not part of CAP. For the first time, the NU had conducted CAP for its PG courses and had got tremendous response to Group A (science courses). After CAP round II, the only seven vacant seats of Group A courses, too, were filled later. In Group B, humanities courses didn’t attract much students as only 40% seats were taken after CAP I and the remaining seats are being filled through spot admissions. The NU would be increasing the intake of courses it would be offering to Gondwana University students. On Wednesday, the NU started sale of forms and Gondwana University students can submit their applications till July 21. The three-member committee, that monitored NU PG admissions, has again been entrusted with the task of conducting CAP for Gondwana students. Led by GS Khadekar, the panel includes Sanjay Dhobale and Shyam Koretti. The merit list would be displayed on July 24 followed by counselling and admission on July 25. Between July 25 and July 27, shortlisted students will need to confirm admission by submitting the requisite documents and paying the fee. Khadekar said, “It is for the first time that Gondwana University is getting special quota. In 1983, three seats used to be reserved for Amravati university following its bifurcation. In 1986, the then executive council decided to give one seat for within Maharashtra students and one for outside. This still continues.” He added that Gondwana students were also given preference within the state category. “The students mostly belong to Naxalite-affected region and face financial problems too. The quota would ensure good students are not deprived of education,” Khadekar said. Another reason for allotting the quota was that the NU’s sister institution still doesn’t have many courses and students are forced take admission in private colleges where fee becomes an issue for them.