The island village of  , also known as Santo Estevao or Zuem, holds a position of eminence in this part of Goa, traditionally called   (Islands).

  Located in present-day Tiswadi taluka, St Estevam covers an area of 8.2sq km and enjoys several sobriquets that it has been given including ‘Xhakecho Zunvo’ (Island of Vegetables) and Ilha de Verde (Green Island). St Estevam is famed for the cultivation of the seven-ridged green ladyfinger called ‘Bhendde’ in Konkani. This has led its natives to be called ‘Bhenddekars’ and they belong to the chardo (kshatriya) caste.
 
  One of St Estevam’s mini-islands called ‘Tolto’ occupies an important place in the village’s history. Villagers say there was an important passage called ‘Ramachi Tar’ which connected Tolto to Dauji in Old Goa. Between, the 16th and 18th centuries, Tolto had nine beautiful houses belonging to the Portuguese ‘fidalgos’ (aristocracy).
 
  St Estevam has over 10 sluice gates in its khazan lands. Presently, it houses nearly 5,000 residents, of which 3,580 are voters. Almost
  80% of the population is Catholic. Till a few years back, the village had an important lore attached to it as most of the matrimonial relationships were confined within the village.
 
  St Estevam comprises seven wards and has a unique dwelling structure model. Even today, one will find rows of houses having common walls and common roofs. “This is the legacy of the past which aided the villagers to seek help in times of attacks by enemies,” says Raimundo Dias of Mangueiral vaddo.
 
  “Zuvemkars were known in the past as ‘tarvotti’ (seafarers). This is a very old attribute from the time of arrival of the Portuguese in Goa. The wooden ships of the Portuguese sailors were repaired in the Cumbharjua canal. During every voyage from Portugal to Goa, some sailors died on the way due to scurvy disease and St Estevam’s men used to substitute these deceased sailors on the way back to Portugal,” says V B Monteiro, a senior priest from the village.
 
  Another attribute of the village is the unity of residents which was very much admired in the past. It is precisely because of this unity that residents faced all odds which the village underwent over the centuries. Stories handed down from generation-to-generation talk about constant repairs to the village bunds which were breached by monsoon floods, as well as rebuilding of the village church that was destroyed by enemies.
  In economic terms, St Estevam is among the most prosperous villages of Goa. Old-timers recount that the then chief minister Pratapsingh Rane used to quote St Estevam village as an example for its highest per capita income.
  
  Residents' speak
  Our village is unique because its indigenous people belong to the same caste and many families have ties within the village itself because of matrimonial bonds
  venan bonaventure dias | resident
  All efforts should be made to save the village’s land for Zuvemkars as it is connected with their heritage and there is no land available within the village for construction purpose
  evaristo rodrigues |
  resident
  
  Sarpanch TAKE
  The panchayat is with the people in opposing the 40,000 sq m project promoted by Balaji Property and Developers under The Goa Investment Promotion Board (IPB) at Tolto. Be it the internal meetings in the panchayat or gram sabhas or even in the written communication to the chief minister who is the head of IPB, we have made our clear disapproval to the project
  orlando menezes, sarpanch
  
  
  RENOWNED RESIDENTS
  Dr Miguel Caetano Dias (July 9, 1854 –July 26, 1936) – was a physician general, noted surgeon and ex-head of the health services, Goa government. His bust is located next to the post office near San Tome Chapel, Panaji.
  Victor Manuel Dias – was a big name in medicine and surgery. He was the pioneer of the first radio broadcast in Goa.
  
  Dr Jose Maria dos Remedios - was the first Goan chief justice of the high court of Goa in 1825.
  
  Dr Alvaro Dias – Last Goan chief justice of the high court of Goa in 1962.
  
  Antonio Dias – was director of Goa Health Services.
  Eufemiano Dias - ex-director, PWD and noted architect.
  
  Fr Leandro Da Rosa (1885-1957) – a famous priest was popularly known as Padre-Mestre Rosa. He held many positions concerning theology including chairs of Sacramental Theology and Special Dogmatics in the Rachol Seminary.
  
  Angelo da Fonseca – was an outstanding international Goan artist, known as the ‘father of Indo- Christian art’.
  
  Venith Afonso – documentary filmmaker of ‘Bapuji’ fame.
  
  Fr Crescencio Monteiro – noted linguist and professor.
  
  Dr Bailon de Sa ­– former UN advisor, former vice-chancellor at a university in Ghana, Africa, and president of the Instituto Menezes Braganza.
  
  Dr   (1943-2009) – was an officer of the Indian Revenue Service. He was a Ph.D in Sociology. As an academician, he served the Goa University as head of its Konkani department and also its acting vice-chancellor.
  
  Fr Bismarque Dias - was a firebrand activist-priest, who vehemently took up the cause of destruction caused to Goa’s fragile ecology
  
  Dr Rufino Monteiro – is a physician and football aficionado instrumental in setting up of the Goa Football Development Council.
  
  Jose Francisco Xavier Ferrao – former deputy commissioner of customs and central excise, Bangalore.
  
  Dr Vicente Pereira – scientist.
  
  Dr Ehrlich de Sa – scientist.
  
  Dr Oswald de Sa - former professor, surgery.
  
  Heritage trail
  
  Chapel of our Lady of Boaventura
  The former parish church at Tolto is the oldest chapel in the village. It has completed 450 years. It served as the main centre of worship when the parish church was destroyed in two attacks.
  
  St Stephen’s Church
  Named after the proto-martyr, it’s origin dates back to 1575. It has been reconstructed twice as it was attacked and ravaged first by Sambhaji on the night of November 25, 1683, and then 108 years later in 1739 by the army of the Maratha Bhosles. The feast is celebrated by villagers on December 26 annually.
  
  Chapel of St Anne
  This chapel at Mangueiral vaddo was built by Ligorio Simpliciano Fulgencio Pereira and his wife Apolonia Visitacao de Siqueira. It has completed over 100 years.
  
  Fort of Santo Estevam (Fort of St Francis Xavier)
  A historical place of eminence on the hill which is presently under the directorate of archives and archaeology of the government of Goa.
  
  Cupantli Manos (sluice gate)
  A mesmerizing locale harbouring two sluice gates. It has been a favourite hotspot to discuss politics of all hues.
  
  Statue of Christ the King
  In the vicinity of St Francis Xavier fort lies the majestic statue of Christ the King. It was brought from Rome in 1926 by Fr Antonio Leonardo Roberto da Rosa, a son of the village. Every year, the feast of its dedication is celebrated on December 27.
  
  Casa do Povo de Santo Estevao
  This is another favorite spot for residents.
  It houses many offices, including the rural health sub-centre, post office, the Comunidade de Jua office and the sports club. It also has a hall for weddings, village meetings and parties.
 
 
 
 
