KOCHI: Hindu fundamentalists have kept over 60   who fell in love with men of other religions under illegal detention at Tripunithura and are forcing them to abandon their lovers, a Hindu woman has alleged before the  . In an affidavit, the woman said she herself was detained for 22 days but managed to escape.

 The allegations were raised by a 28-year-old Hindu woman from Thrissur in an affidavit filed in response to a habeas corpus petition filed by her 29-year-old lover Rinto Issac of Thrissur after the woman went missing from their rented home on July 27th. They had gotten married at a temple at Peechi and had given notice for registering their marriage as per  , as per the petition.
 
 Through the affidavit, the woman, who is an Ayurvedic doctor, said “I was detained by my father and family members and was tortured by Hindu fundamentalists in the counselling centre at Tripunithura to estrange my marital relationship with the writ petitioner (Rinto). I was taken to this counselling centre the name which appeared to be a Yoga and Charitable Trust on 31-7-2017.”
 
 “I found around 65 such inmates undergoing incarceration there. We were forced to sleep in the open floor of dormitories and the doors of bathrooms did not have any lock. The inmates include those suffering confinement for years. We had to live among wet clothes and there was no facility even to dry up our washed clothes. Most of the inmates are ill all around but no treatment is given. The counsellors used to prescribe medicines by searching in the Internet. I was under confinement for 22 days,” the woman said in the affidavit filed at the court.
 
 The gang at the centre showed her photos to prove that Rinto is under their constant surveillance and threatened her that he would be killed if she goes and live with him. She escaped when her parents took her to her elder sister’s house at Muvattupuzha and joined Rinto, the woman said.
 
 In addition to seeking police protection from Hindu fundamentalists, the woman has sought a court directive for a detailed investigation into the criminal activities of the trust that runs the centre at Tripunithura. Considering the affidavit, the court has directed for making the centre a party in the case to know its views.
 
