With the state assembly elections coming in about one and half years, it was natural for chief minister Vasundhara Raje to prefer appeasement over economics as the Budget presented for 2017-18 on Wednesday exhibited all the hallmarks of a populist exercise with allocations to social and community services rising 43.57% over last year.

 While the quintessence of the Budget pivoted around roads, water, electricity, health, housing, and pensions, Raje, who holds the finance portfolio, went a step further by offering scooties to general category students who are eco nomically backward.
 
 “The Budget is based on the government's vision document mission 2020. It aims at a happy Rajasthan and a happy Rajasthani,“ she said.
 
 Even as the chief minister didn't show mercy on the smokers and raised the VAT on cigarettes by 15%, she refrained from tinkering the tax rates factoring in the impending GST rollout expectedly from July this year. Rather, some relief was given selectively such as exempting entry tax on yarn and removing entertainment tax on online booking service charges.
 
 Raje said despite the state's present poor financial condition, the government has made an attempt to boost social infrastructure. “Infrastructure development has been given a lot of focus. The Budget for public works department (PWD) at Rs 6,657.32 crore has been raised by 58.47% as compared to last year. Similarly, the Budget for water resources has been raised by 15.68% as compared to last year,“ said Raje while addressing the media. The Budget has proposed a series of measures to provide relief in stamp duty and registration fees, but the beaten-down real estate sector is unlikely to get a meaningful boost. The proposal to levy cow and infrastructure surcharge across the board will put additional tax burden on the sector that is desperately looking for a rebound.
 
 Tourism, the backbone of Rajasthan's economy , also got an impetus as Raje proposed Rs 88 crore fund to market the state aggressively . In the same vein, allocations for art, culture and archaeology department also increased by 49% to Rs 156.83 crore. The sector is expected to gain from the decisions to reduce of air turbine fuel tax by 1% and to connect Kota, Ajmer and Sawai Madhopur with Jaipur.
 
 As part of the initiative to deepen digital penetration in the state, the government is planning to provide Wi-Fi facilities in 190 cities in next financial year, she announced.
 
 Medical education is anoth er sector that got the attention of the chief minister who announced a 33% increase in allocation that included Rs 20 crore for heart transplant facilities at SMS Hospital, construction of trauma hospital at Mathura Das Hospital in Jodhpur and a kidney transplant facility at Kota medical college.
 
 Skill development is a priority area for Raje who promised to create 15 lakh jobs after coming to power in late 2013.
 
 For 2017-18, she increased the outlay by 31% to Rs 1,007 crore that includes creating a skills university at Jamdoli, new ITIs in 18 panchayat samitis. There is also a plan to set up a Japan India manufacturing institute in Neemrana.
 
 In a bid to enhance her propoor image with a strong leaning for women empowerment, Raje proposed to double the subsidy and incentive amount for the marriage of a daughter under `Sahyog and Uphar Yojana'.
 
 She also announced that the pension under Mukhyamantri Specially-abled Samman Pension Scheme (Rs 750 per month) would be applicable to all eligible without age criteria.
 
 Appreciating the youth for their achievements in the arena of sports over the last three years, Raje announced a string of measures to improve the infrastructure in this area.
 
 Reacting to the Budget, former chief minister Ashok Gehlot said, “This is BJP government's fourth successive hopeless budget. BJP promised 15 lakh jobs, 20,000-km roads and many other things for students, youth, farmers, SCST, minority , SBC, EBC. None of these have been fulfilled.“
 
 Strangely , the Budget this time had no mention of refinery in Barmer and investment proposals received from the Resurgent Rajasthan.
 
 
