GHAZIABAD: An embarrassed   police has suspended three policemen who had on Friday detained a boy and a girl, both college students, during an “anti-Romeo” drive at a park in Navyug Market.

 The   of the students showed why there is a fear that the campaign to stop sexual harassment of women on roads is being turned into a moral policing exercise by some policemen.
 
 The three suspended cops — assistant sub-inspector Mehtab Singh, constable Vineet Kumar and driver constable Pankaj Kumar — face a departmental inquiry, a police officer said. The suspension came hours after a video of the students being detained was posted on social media and shared widely through messaging platforms. 
 
 The three cops, in PCR van 1347, had spotted the boy and the girl sitting on a bench inside the park on Friday morning. They walked up to the two and began questioning them. This attracted the attention of others in the park as well as people outside. A crowd started gathering but the unfazed policemen continued to grill the duo. They then ordered them into the PCR vehicle.
 
 “It was humiliating for the boy and the girl as a huge crowd had gathered to watch them being questioned by the cops. One could see the girl unsuccessfully trying to hide her face when she was escorted by the cops to the PCR van,” said an eyewitness.
 
 The two were taken to Sihani Gate police station and detained there for some time. Meanwhile, videos of the incident started circulating on social media, drawing sharp criticism. The students were soon let off.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Ghaziabad SSP Deepak Kumar said, “The anti-Romeo drive has been implemented to check harassment of women, but in no way does it give officers the licence to harass a consenting couple. In Friday’s incident, prima facie it appears that the constables involved did not follow the set principles, so they have been suspended.”
 
 The presence of a woman officer is mandatory when a woman is detained by the police. This was not the case when the students were detained, which makes the cops’ move to detain them tantamount to harassment, police sources said.
 
 
