MUMBAI: "I escaped the Nepal earthquake without a scratch. A glitch in my heart could not have killed me so easily," said  , a 68-year-old gritty retired banker, who underwent two critical cardiac procedures at one go and lived to tell the tale. To add to the odds, her body weight was all of 35kg, her lungs were weak and the heart's pumping capacity was down to 25% at the time of the surgery. 

 An avid traveller, Pathak never let her weak lungs come in the way of her life's plans. She even ticked off Ladakh from her bucket list where breathing problems often get the better of travellers. But a gangrenous infection of the intestine slowed her down. Pathak started losing weight after undergoing a surgery to correct the problem--she lost 25kg in one-and-half years. 
 
 The heart problem only aggravated the weight loss. During a routine visit to the  's  , it appeared that she had two major heart blockages and narrowing of a heart valve. To correct these, she needed to undergo both bypass surgery and aortic valve replacement. But the hospital was worried that she may die on the operation table.
 
 "She was just skin and bones and in a fragile condition. We refused to operate on her not once but twice. The family, however, persisted that she will pull through," said cardiac surgeon Dr   of AHI. In the risk score drawn up by the hospital to analyze a patient's probabilities of surviving such a high-risk operation, her chances of dying were 90-95%. "However, her courage and willpower helped her recover after this major operation," said Panda. 
 
 In the surgery that lasted ten hours, doctors performed part of her bypass surgery with the beating heart technique and the rest by putting her on a heart-lung machine. After the bypass surgery, her heart was stopped to replace the narrowed valve with the new one," said Panda. She recently went home after two months of hospital stay. 
 
 Phatak said she has gained around 2 kg after the surgery. "I am waiting to regain my strength so that I can travel," she said.
 
