KOCHI: Very few Indian sportpersons have risen to No.1 status in their respective spot. Hyderabadi shuttler   is one of them. Though PV   has leapfrogged her in rankings, there is no doubting the fact it was Saina's achievements on the world circuit that proved to be an inspiration for a generation of Indian shuttlers, including Sindhu. "I wanted to be World No. 1 and I did that. The first thing you need to do is to have belief in you, the rest will follow," she added. "It's not easy to play at the highest level as all the players from rest of the world are very tough. When I beat them, you may get a feeling that they are very easy to defeat, but that is not the case. The amount of training and hard work I undergo daily is beyond imagination," said the London Olympic bronze medalist, who was in the city to attend a promotional event.

 PV Sindhu has now emulated Saina's achievements on the world stage and the senior Hyderabadi finds a reason behind her junior's rise. "Sindhu has been playing at the top level for more than seven or eight years. When you play continuously for these many years, then results will come," the 27-year-old   said.
 
 But the other Indian girls in the circuit have not been able to match the achievements of the Hyderabadi duo. India's only other representation in top-50 of women's ranking is the 21-year old Rituparna Das, who is ranked 48th. "I don't have the feeling that rest of the women shuttlers in the country are not good enough to play at the top level. Rituparna is a player with a very good technique. I think she needs to improve her strength," said Saina.
 
 She also said that she wanted the junior players to gain more experience by continuously playing at the top level. But saying that she admitted that India does not have too many women shuttlers who can make it to the top level. "Rituparna is close enough and there is Rithvika. But we need more girls coming into the top league. It is true that we don't have too many girls coming through in Indian badminton when compared to boys," she said. "There are fourteen or fifteen boys who are of the same level and they are winning tournaments. I was so happy to see   and   playing the final of a Super Series," she added.
 
 Saina has struggled on her return to court after a knee surgery last August and admits that she is yet to get back to her best. "Coming out of an injury is much easier, but it's not easy to recover from a surgery. I feel better now and the only thing lacking is winning. Otherwise, I'm practising well and let's see how I perform in the upcoming tournaments," said Saina who will be leading the Indian contingent in the Thailand Open GP Gold which begins on May 30. 
 
 
