By 
 

 For many years until recently,   in Puttenahalli had been a target for robbers. From footwear to bicycles to   and robberies, this neighbourhood – once a   and bankers – had gained notoriety. But when complaints to the police didn’t bring a lasting solution, the residents put their heads together and made it happen.
 
 “There was a time when robbery was a major problem in our colony. The police station was far and by the time we called them to the spot, things would have changed already. So as residents here, we wanted to do something in our own capacity,” said, VV Sreenivasa Rao, a  
 
 Complaints over the phone to the   didn’t help, nor did the Cheetah patrolling, done for a few minutes around midnight.
 
 “We used to hide inside cars near our houses and keep vigil. One day we saw a car come in. A few from the vehicle went into every house in the area looking for chappals and expensive shoes. These were dumped into a sack and carried to the waiting car. We tried to catch them, but were not successful,” said Rao.
 
 Things reached a head and residents decided to do something seriously. The welfare association raised funds to procure CCTV cameras that were installed at prime locations of the colony. They also put up a board warning passersby of CCTV surveillance. The footages were monitored at the welfare association office every night by a group.
 
 “We spent around Rs1.35 lakh for 8 cameras and their installation. One day, we found someone suspicious in the area, and tried to grab him. But he realised we were hunting for him and managed to give us the slip and escape,” said Rao. The residents efforts and constant surveillance bore fruit. Crime came down significantly.
 
 After Puttenahalli got a police station, the residents approached the cops for regular checks in the area.
 
 
 
 
 But the efforts didn’t end here. The residents decided to leave nothing to chance and took up night patrol. Rao said: “Even before installing CCTV cameras, this idea was there in our minds. We formed a group of 20-30 people who didn’t mind patrolling at night. This was done every night in shifts of 6-7 residents. We used to start at 1 am and kept vigil till 4-5 am.”
 
 Those with tighter schedules patrolled during weekends.
 
 A resident of the colony said: “We love doing this. We feel responsible for anything that happens here. We have lived here since ages and we want the colony to be free of fear. Even cops visit every night to ensure our safety.”
 
