MANGALURU: The sultry weather in the city notwithstanding, students and aviation enthusiasts turned up in hundreds at the  , which is hosting the two-day national-level aeromodelling competition ‘Aerophilia 2017’, the curtains on which rose on Friday.

 The sky buzzed with the humming of the radio-controlled (RC)  , and the crowd was treated to a host of manoeuvres that left them beguiled.   that ran on fuel brought by two flyers from Dubai — Abdullah Jaseem, manager for health and environment in port and customs, and Essa, a cop — were added attractions at what was an avionic fete, with the atmosphere resembling that of an air show. Their planes were called NX7 Gaui.
 
 Members of the Mangalore Flyers Club were among the showstealers at the event, with their RC aeroplanes dazzling the crowd with spectacular feats. As many as 30 teams from across the country, including teams from NITs and IITs, have descended on Mangaluru to participate in the event. The competition will entail the participants having to design the aircraft, which will be judged on the quality of their design and working capacity.
 
 Some of the models that were on show on the inaugural day of   2017 included Ticarno, Adarsh-Helicam, besides other jet aircraft. Among other objectives, the event is aimed at encouraging students and youngsters to explore the possibilities in the field of aeronautics.
 
 A Drone Race is among the highlights of the event. According to the organizers, such a contest is being held in the country for the first time. A first year engineering student at the college, Sumanth said, “The race involves two rounds: In the first, the speed of the RC aircraft will be tested, as the drone will have to reach the finishing line as quickly as possible, while in the second, it will gave to perform manoeuvres inside the arena.”
 
 The event was organized by Team Challengers, a group of students in Sahyadri College of Engineering and Management, who are very passionate about aeronautics and robotics. 
 
 Students who participated in the SAE International Aero Design Competition 2016 hosted at Fort Worth in Texas, USA, and other aero-modelling competitions were part of the organizing committee.
 
 
