JODHPUR:   along with the  , who was shot dead by assailants on Sunday night, held   and demanded the government to ensure peace to conduct business in the city on Monday.

 Protesters, under the banner of Vasudev Israni Hatykand Sangharsh Samiti, also called for a bandh on Tuesday. While giving a 24-hour ultimatum to the police to arrest the killers, they also demanded the immediate removal of police commissioner Ashok Rathore.
 
 “We don’t want any compensation. But arrest the criminals and remove police commissioner Ashok Rathore for his failure in containing crime in the city. We just want peace to prevail in the city so that we can conduct business without fear,” said Deepak Chandani, a member of the samiti.
 
 Meanwhile, the city police remained clueless about the killers. They interrogated some suspects, including the staff at Israni’s shop.
 
 “We have interrogated the staff of Padmraj Electronics and have also been scanned the CCTV footage in and around the shop,” said an official.
 
 Over the past seven months, Jodhpur has been target for extortion attempts, with hardcore criminal from Punjab, Lawrence Bishnoi, eyeing the city for his criminal activities. He has been lodged in Ajmer’s Ghughara jail for the past two months after he was found using mobile phones in the Jodhpur Central Jail.
 
 In March, similar attacks were made by criminals as they fired at the houses of a renowned doctor, Sunil Chandak, and Manish Jain, a tour and travel operator. Jain’s luxury car was set on fire by the criminals.
 
 Israni was similarly shot at on June 19 at his shop. The car of a handicraft businessman from the city, Ritesh Lohia, was vandalized on June 20, the very next day.
 
 Though police had arrested Bishnoi, three of his aides and filed two cases, they failed to apprehend his henchman, Harendra Jat, who is operating on the behalf of Bishnoi from Jodhpur.
 
 Police had identified him as the accused behind the previous attack on Israni but failed to arrest him which led to the fatal repeat attack on Israni on Sunday night.
 
 Besides the high court, the human rights commission had also taken cognizance of the spurt in shooting incidents and sought a reply from the police. While appearing in the court, police commissioner Rathore had said that the jail was a breeding ground of criminals from where they carried out operations using phones.
 
 
