VISAKHAPATNAM: Given the increasing instances of lifestyle diseases such as diabetes and obesity, people and patients are seeking alternative methods such as yoga, naturopathy and traditional diet to address these health issues. While continuing with their usual medications, they are opting for the alternate system of treatment to keep the ailments under control and to modify their lifestyle.

 Yoga camps are being conducted in   to address the problems of obesity and diabetes besides diet counselling. With the right kind of asanas and pranayamas, a healthy and balanced diet and with the right mindset to control stress and anxiety, experts said diabetes can be controlled and minimised. Obesity and diabetes are interlinked and obesity is the root cause or condition behind several other ailments such as cardiac problems, stroke, diabetes, hypertension and arthritis.
 
 “Given the demand, we are conducting a yoga camp for diabetic patients after testing all their medical parameters, sugar level, body mass index (BMI) and so on. Daily, one hour of yoga is enough and gradually as per one’s capacity, the difficulty level of the asanas can be enhanced. However, it’s mandatory that one takes up yoga under the supervision of a qualified teacher or instructor and not try to do on one’s own by watching the internet. Practising and following the right posture is very important, otherwise there would be pains and side effects,” said Prof TV Anandrao, director of the department of yoga at AU. Assistant professor R Tulasi Rao, naturopathy and yoga specialist from AU said that a variety of asanas, pranayams and meditation techniques can be followed for 45 minutes to one hour. But the particular dhanurasana (bow pose) should be practised for 3-5 minutes daily as it’s one of the most effective asanas for diabetic patients. Besides this, tadasana, triyaktadasana, pavanmuktasana, ardhamatchandrasana, bhujangasana, salbhasana should be practised.
 
 “To control weight-gain and obesity, 12 poses of suryanamaskarams can be practised in two rounds, repeating each posture six times. In between the two rounds, savasana or rest should be taken. This is an effective way to burn calories. Besides, trikonasana and veerabhadrasana can address problems of abdominal fat deposition or android obesity. Apart from these, the pavanmuktasana series, navasana, bhujangasana and salbhasana can be practised as well. Daily 45 minutes of asanas, 10 minutes of pranayama with five minutes of rest can go a long way in controlling obesity,” said Prof Rao.
 
 
