BHIWANDI: A day after TOI reported about the ordeal a Bhiwandi man and his girlfriend went through for hugging in public, police have registered a case against seven people for kidnapping,   and  , among other charges. The accused had forced the man to post an apology video online. TOI was the only paper to have reported the incident. 

 Last Saturday (March 11), Salim, along with a friend, drove down to Shabnam's college to meet her (names changed to protect identities). Seeing her, he stopped the car in the middle of the road, got out and rushed towards her with a rose. Then he proposed the old fashioned way, with friends cheering on and applauding. A passerby shot the act and posted it online. The video evoked strong reactions from the leaders of the couple's community, prompting the man to apologise. The man left the city on Friday but returned on Saturday after police assured him protection.
 
 Narendra Meghrajani, assistant commissioner of police, Bhiwandi region, said, "Forcefully taking the couple to a dhaba and making the man apologise amounts to wrongful restraint and kidnapping." 
 
 A case of rioting has also been registered as the number of people involved were more than five, Meghrajani added. The police action has brought some relief to the families of the couple. A family member said, "Action ought to be taken against those who try to take law into their hands in the name of religion."
 
 In the apology video, the man said that he and his girlfriend are set to get engaged and their families are aware of their relationship. "I accept my mistake and will never repeat such a thing again. Because of my mistake, do not trouble my friends, sister, mother and other people," he said. However, in another video, a friend of the man said that he had been forced to apologise as he had "brought bad name to the religion". 
 
 Baddiuzzaman Khan from  , who had threatened to demonstrate against the couple as they had "indulged in actions that are against the religious tenets" and also planned to make them do squats in public, was called to police station. In a U-turn, he played down the incident and said he wanted to set a deterrent.
 
 
