It was with great shock and distress that the south film fraternity learnt of the abducting and assaulting of a well-known actress on Friday night. The brave actress was quick to react to the situation, and she sought the help of her friend and filed a com plaint with the police officials upon escaping. Her friends and colleagues have come out in support of her -while a few met her in person and lent helping hands, others expressed their solidarity on social media, not just to her, but to the entire women community out there, who have faced similar situations. Though investigation is happening at full-throttle, with a few in connection with the crime already being nabbed, actors from  , includ ing the ones who worked with the actress, opine unani mously that   should be enforced as soon as possible.

 
 
 When the actress' driv er is involved in such a case, I really don't know what to say you tend to stop trust ing people. We trust these drivers and makeup men a lot.These people stay with us for so many years that they actually become part of the family . What will happen to the men who were caught? They would be released on bail or would serve prison for a few months. If my facts are right, the offender had already tried abducting another actress a few years ago. Which means he was let out that time, too? He is a repeated offender. A strong law should be passed so all the men know they are going to be treated to strict punishment 
 
 
 
 
 This can hap pen to any girl. It clearly shows that there is absolutely no safety for women in our society . Even I travel alone to shoots -nobody accompanies me. Where is the security for me? After this shameful incident, my mother got scared and she called me and asked if she could accompany me to shooting spot. I feel that very strict punishment has to meted out to the perpetrators so that they are not repeated 
 
 
 
 
 We need to wake up. There is no point in having debates, candle light marches and protests as they are not going to help. There should be a productive movement. What to do we do? Why is this frequently happening. Actress or a child, no one is being spared. The occur rences are becoming too frequent to comfort. Something is seriously wrong. I might give my opinion on this, but how will it change? What is the cause? Time has come to take more serious actions 
 
 
 
 
 It is so shameful, the thought of molesting a girl, when you your self are born from a lady . What dirty and dis turbed mind do these people these people have. I'm so angry at what has happened. I stand with her right for demanding the justice required
 
 
 
 
 This incident proves that there is no way to keep way to keep yourself safe.I was gifted a pepper spray by my co-stars during the shoot for my debut film years ago. After this incident, most of my co-actors called on me to inquire if I carry that spray along. I am more paranoid than ever 
 
 
 
 
 I never imagined that this could hap pen to an actress, someone who is in the public eye al ways. We have to travel at odd hours because of shoots.
 This incident angers me beyond words 
 
 
 
 
 It is a shocking and shameful act.I'm requesting my colleagues to be care ful from now on. Their safety is the first priority.The production team should ensure that artistes travel with their personal staff only and should not send them alone on outdoor shoots
 
 
 
 
 The sad thing is that such incidents happen repeatedly , and yet proper measures are not taken to curb it. I don't know what terms I should use to refer such people. It is disgusting that people who were considered as trustworthy were behind this shameful act. People advise the use of pepper spray for safety to women, but what if a woman is in a situation where she is not able to use it? It is easy to talk about so many things, but difficult to implement all of them 
 
 
 
 
 It is a shame that our country, which boasts of rich culture and tradition, doesn't know to respect women. It is sad to learn that this has happened to an actress. Forget about safety for actresses, safety for women, in general has become a question. Men who indulge in these kinds of activities bring shame to the entire community. Recently, it was the rape of a seven year-old girl in the city, and now this. I hope and pray that she recovers from this trauma as soon as possible. I am glad that she's filed a complaint. The cops should take action immediately and those found guilty should be punished as per the law
 
 
