JAIPUR: At a time, when the   (JMC) has decided to launch  , many temporary   once again went on   on Monday.

 The strike was announced as the JMC administration had failed to pay remuneration to these sanitation workers. Sanitation worker association is demanding payment for the month of January.
 
 There are nearly 3,500 temporary sanitation workers in the city. Many of workers went on strike as payment was not given to them on time. “Till February 20, the payment for the month of January was not paid. Earlier too payment for only half the month was given,” said a member of sanitation workers association.
 
 Due to absence of workers, heaps of garbage were seen lying around in many areas of the city. According to the reports Walled City area was worst affected.
 
 A JMC official claimed that the sanitation drive was not affected as permanent employees replaced the temporary workers. Also, directions were given to the contractor to settle the payment issue at the earliest and resolve the matter. City residents, however, informed TOI that permanent workers were only deployed on major routes for sweeping. Ratna Jain of Mansarovar Colony said, “Despite registering a complaint with the JMC, garbage was not picked up. The area is stinking and our children are being exposed to this which in turn can cause diseases.”
 
 The citizens will have to suffer due to the   of the JMC. “The officials do not monitor the contractor this is the reason payment is not given on time. The workers are on strike for the 10th time in two years. Action should be taken against the contractors as it is the residents who suffer due to contractors,” Rajiv Aggrawal of Mansarovar area.
 
 The city is already facing shortage of workers. If existing workers too go on strike the condition becomes miserable. As per the high court directions, for every 1,000 residents, five sanitation workers should be deployed. By this standard, at present the city is facing a shortage of 13,000 workers. There should be at least 18,000 workers in the city.
 
 
