Bijnor: To reduce pressure on courts which are dealing with ever-increasing number of cases, Bijnor district magistrate has ordered the appointment of “nyaya mitras” (justice friends). The nyaya mitras will render help in legal and administrative matters to plaintiffs and also help them in getting justice. The online applications for post of nyaya mitras will be accepted till May 31. According to officials, district courts across the country were grappling with a backlog of 2.8 crore civil and criminal cases in the period between July 1, 2015 and June 30, 2016. One of the reasons for the huge number of pending cases is the shortage of judges in subordinate courts..  Giving details, district magistrate Jagat Raj said, “Most of the district courts are grappling with the burden of pending cases. These cases have become a challenge for the judiciary department. Now, law and justice ministry has decided to appoint justice friends. The ministry has sent a letter to us in this regard. Apart from this, the Chief Justice of India also instructed all high courts to launch a campaign to sort out these pending cases. For this, the justice department of India has selected 227 districts of north and east India. Besides, 27 districts of Jammu and Kashmir have been also marked where a large number of cases are pending.”  On the justice friends, Raj said, “Govt will set up a district convenience centre (zila sividha kendra) in each of the districts selected. At these centres, former judiciary and administrative officers who worked as judiciary officer, will be appointed as justice friends. They will sort out pending cases based on their knowledge and experience. Nyaya mitras will not affect the autonomy and independence of the judiciary. But they only reduce pending cases and will provide legal help to needy plaintiffs.”  Former judiciary officers can apply for this post online till May 30, the DM added.  Talking with TOI, senior lawyer Anil Chaudhary said, “It is a good move on the part of the government. They will not only lessen the burden of the judges but also help the justice department as cases will be decided soon.”