Having gone out of production in 1996, the cult motorcycles Jawa and Yezdi still have many in Chandigarh, and its periphery, hooked to their killer looks and dependable performance.

 Nearly 50 Jawas and Yezdis descended on a parking lot near Government College of Arts in Sector 10 to celebrate World Jawa Day late afternoon this Sunday. The opportunity of seeing nearly all models of the two motorcycles pulled in people ranging from wide-eyed teenaged girls to bearded, sunglass-wearing Enfield bikers. For many at the event, the gathering — which had ArriveSafe president Harman Singh Sidhu, the man behind the SC’s liquor ban around highways, as the chief guest — was a reflection of how a club dedicated to the two motorcycles has swelled from a first meeting of just eight persons in 2010 to attracting a crowd of nearly 300 for the annual event. 
 
 In the crowd, there was the oldest member of Jawa Yezdi Club Chandigarh, 77-year-old Rakesh Kumar. The Chandigarh resident told TOI that he last rode his 1969-year, 250CC Jawa four months ago. "I fell in love with it the moment I saw it," he said.
 
 When asked what kept him going, he preferred to give an open-ended answer: "It’s like life. You just keep going. The man above decides when you stop."
 
 FOUNDING TRIO
 
 For the trio that founded the club, Harpreet Singh Shergill, Harsh Dhaliwal and N S Dhaliwal, the idea behind the group was to connect with like-minded people.
 
 Of the three, Shergill, a burly, six-foot-tall man, is the outspoken one who networks in town, while Harsh is the mannered organizer. The most adventurous of the trio, N S Dhaliwal, is the seasoned biker. "I never thought we'd grow so big. It’s all because of Facebook. I was last here two years ago and was touring India after that. Even in this time, people attached with us has grown," he said on the sidelines.
 
 POWERFUL 2-WHEELERS
 
 Giving a low-down on what sets Jawas apart, Harsh said the motorcycle was the first of its kind in India of the 1960s. "It was incomparable, right from the looks to the engine," he said.
 
 Karam Singh, who has been restoring the two bikes, said the motorcycle can climb the steepest mountain roads. "Even now, decades-old Jawas can be taken on a ride to mountains; they won’t give you any trouble. These bikes have a powerful engine and are lightweight too. That makes them easy to handle," he said. "By the way, the twin exhaust does not only look good, it keeps the engine cool too."
 
 At Sunday’s event, the club had kept Rakesh Kumar’s Jawa on a pedestal and lined up the remaining motorcycles on its sides. Declaring the purpose behind the move to the informal, friendly gathering, Shergill said the senior-most member wanted to mark 50 years of his riding two years early. "A soothsayer has told him he won’t be here till then. We don’t believe him, but still want to make a celebration out of it," he said.
 
 Talking about the type of people who have joined the club, Harsh said there were youngsters, middle-aged people and even seniors. "You have already met Rakeshji. Just look around, most of these young boys were either handed down motorcycles from their fathers or they bought one and got it restored," he said.
 
 MEETINGS
 
 Members of the club, Harsh said, met once a month. "We go on short rides regularly. The club’s open to other riders tooEven those with Enfields can join us," he said. "All you need to do us send a shoutout on Facebook."
 
 As the Sun was about to set, members of the club felicitated Sidhu. "We believe in riding safe. Sidhu ji has always batted for safety. Also, he loves Jawas. It was obvious we’d call him," said Harsh.
 
 Talking about future plans, Dhaliwal said the club was only an informal of getting like-minded people together. On the other hand, the indomitable Shergill had a simple answer: "More rides, more get-togethers. You must have heard the saying: ‘The more, the merrier’."
 
 
