“Women constantly change their minds when it comes to appearance. Most like to try to do something different with their looks. However you don’t need to do something elaborate for that. Simple things like tweaking your hair a bit or wearing another shade of lipstick than you normally do on an everyday basis, is a great way to look different,” says   professional Amyn Manji. Since the secret lies in tweaking, here’s what you should do when you’re want to step out for an evening out:

 
  Eyebrows shape your eyes and face, so if you have an enviable archs, half the battle is won. Says Farhaan Shaikh, make-up professional, “When you make your brows full and straight, they give you an innocent look, while defining an arch will make you look edgy.”
 
 
  Save on those pennies that you use to get a haircut or colouring done. Instead tweak your hairstyle a bit to make it look trendy and different. A middle parting will lend a symmetrical look to your face, while a deep parting will make you look mature. Further you can also go in for a braid or a bun that are perfect options for a makeover.
 
 
  With the weekend almost upon us, the time is just right to change the way you look by flaunting bright and bold colours in your make-up. You can always opt for a bright red lipstick or do the smokey eye look. Adding bright colours to your hair can make it look funky. Says Manji, “In case you do not wish to colour your hair completely, you can add extensions in bright colours such as purple or fuchsia.”
 
 
 Choosing a different scent from what you normally wear will also amp your look. It is best to choose one according to the occasion you are wearing it for. For example, if you are going for a party in the evening, you can wear something that has a hint of musk. But if you are going for an occasion during the day, it is best to choose something light and fruity.
 
 
  The best way to ensure that you look great and different is by dabbing an illuminating cream that will highlight your features before you apply a foundation. This will make your skin glow after you’ve applied your make-up. You can opt for a BB or a CC cream for that flawless look. 
 
