MUMBAI: The   might be under   coverage, but that doesn't seem to deter   On Saturday,   from the   and escaped with an accomplice waiting outside. 

 An FIR was filed with Sahar police but no arrests have been made. The men arrived by the same flight as their victims. "They were in the seat ahead of us. I realised it when we saw the CCTV footage," said Rajesh Vora (62), whose wife's bag was robbed. "My wife had an iPhone, credit cards, jewellery, keys and about Rs 15,000 in cash in the bag," Vora, a Versova resident said.
 
 If booked in advance, Mumbai-Bangalore tickets can be bought for as low as Rs 1,900, so stealing bags from the airport appears to be a lucrative option for thieves. In 2015, the CISF cracked down on gangs involved in over 100 thefts at airports like Mumbai, Delhi, Bangalore, Chennai. The thieves would book themselves on flights with a check-in bag, then reach the terminal first to steal from the conveyor belt. The CISF also got complaints from Goa, Bhubaneswar, Trichy, Vizag, Jaipur. 
 
 In the latest case, the thieves didn't have a check-in bag, said Vora, only a plastic bag as handbag. The incident took place around 4pm, minutes after Vora and his wife landed from Bengaluru and walked into T2. "We were waiting at the conveyor belt with two trolleys. One had my camera bag and handbag while my wife left her handbag on the top rack of the other," said Vora. As passengers were waiting for their check-in baggage, Vora's wife went to the washroom. "At one point I thought our bag had arrived and went to pick it up only to realise it wasn't ours," he said. His wife returned to find her bag missing and asked her husband, which was when the couple realised they were robbed.
 
 "We rushed to CISF personnel nearby. They traced relevant CCTV footage," said Vora. Two men were seen hovering near Vora. As his attention was on the conveyor belt, one man flicked the bag, put it inside their plastic handbag and left. They got into an auto their accomplice was waiting in. The PSI investigating the matter could not be contacted for comment.
 
 
