KOCHI: Ride Block, a   for skateboards, developed by former students of TocH Institute of Science and Technology , Kochi, has been hugely successful in finding funding from abroad. Flipmotion Inc, a barely three-year-old startup which is behind the innovative product, has attracted funding to the tune of nearly Rs 2 crore from foreign investors.

 “Ride Block is like a   for skateboards,“ said  , co-founder and CTO of the startup. The motion tracker, which is fitted under the skateboard, could give live reports of distance, speed, rotation, jump height and angle to the user.
 
 One of their funders is   Ventures (QCV), the investment arm of the global chipmaker. “QCV , along with Accel Partners, has invested $100,000 in our startup. Make in LA, an American accelerator in the Los Angeles, has invested a further $150,000 in our project,“ said  , co-founder and CEO of Flipmotion Inc, on the sidelines of YES 3D-2017. “Flat6Labs, Abu Dhabi-based accelerator which had selected us, has invested $35,000,“ he added.
 
 Jose explained how he got introduced to skateboarding, at a relatively young age, “I had access to cable TV in Wayanad and our generation grew up watching Tony Hawk, the American skateboarder. While at the sixth standard, I first got a penny board, which is not even a proper skateboard, from Kozhikode“. Apart from getting funds, Ride Block team's one yearlong stay at Los Angeles' Make In LA accelerator was quite helpful in fine-tuning the product further, he said. “We started exploring there. We had mentors, hardware advisors and even got help from the professional skateboarders. We also had access to 3D printing, laser cutting and CNC milling machines“.
 
 Also, through the Make in LA connection, the startup was able to set up a booth at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas in 2016 and 2017. The exposure at CES helped them to get potential partners and they are currently working on the private beta stage of the product. Jose and Nair are planning to sell their products globally through distributors.
 
