VARANASI: Following his meeting with   president Amit Shah in Lucknow on Sunday, seven-time MLA from Varanasi City South Shyamdeo Roy Chaudhary 'Dada', who has been denied a party ticket, on Monday said hopes for his candidature are still alive as the party has kept symbol allotment for the seat on hold. On the other hand, Neelkanth Tiwari, who has replaced Dada on a BJP ticket and was also summoned by Shah to Lucknow, claimed that he had been asked to continue canvassing. The nomination process for eight assembly seats of Varanasi, where polling will take place in last phase on March 8, will end on February 16. 

 The release of candidate list by the BJP for UP assembly election on January 25 had reportedly come as a shocker for Dada, who had said that he had not made any claim for had not made an party ticket but should still have been told about the party's decision earlier. After getting the party ticket, Tiwari had visited Dada's residence for a courtesy meet. However, Dada refused to campaign for the party. Meanwhile, Tiwari and his supporters intensified their canvassing by using BJPs city unit office as their election office. Taking note of the protests, Shah called Dada and Tiwari at the party's Lucknow office on Sunday .Talking to TOI on Monday, Dada said Shah met him Tiwari separately in the state capital.“During my interaction with Shah, I said that I wanted to express my pain. In reply, Shah said that not only him but even Prime Minister Narendra Modi was aware about me. Shah asked me not to worry as he is looking into the matter personally,“ said Dada.
 
 On speculation that he had been offered a berth in Rajya Sabha in the future, Dada said no such issues were discussed during the meeting. He said the party has already given authorization forms of symbol allotment to all other declared candidates but the said form had not been given to Tiwari so far. He said Shah has assured him not to get worried, and this means hopes for his candidature from City South are still alive.Tiwari admitted that the party has asked him to wait for the authorization form for symbol allotment till Tuesday. Regarding the outcome of his interaction with Shah, Tiwari said it was very brief conversation and the party chief asked him to go out in field and continue canvassing.
 
 UP BJP chief Keshav Prasad Maurya confirmed that Shyamdeo Roy Chaudhary met BJP chief Amit Shah.“Some solution to the issue raised by 'Dada' would come by tomorrow (Tuesday). On whether Chaudhary will get a BJP ticket, Maurya said, “Dada chunaav ladd bhi sakte hain aur lada bhi sakte hain (Dada can either contest himself or make someone else fight the polls).“
 
