TRICHY: Two-wheeler riders coming to the   railway station to pick up or drop passengers have alleged that railway authorities are barring them from parking their vehicles on the southern side of the station. They claim that they are chased away by the   personnel based on instructions from the railway officials. 

 Due to this, they are forced to go around the railway premises to park the vehicles for a brief period or else shell out parking fee for 12 hours at the two-wheeler stand. Adding to their woes, if they are found parking their two-wheelers at the space allotted in front of the divisional railway manager's office, the vehicles are chained and detained. 
 
 Being one of the busiest railway stations in the state, thousands of passengers arrive from various destinations. Hundreds of passengers from Trichy and surrounding areas also travel to neighbouring districts like Thanjavur, Ariyalur, Karur, Nagapattinam and Pudukkottai for work. Though there is a dedicated parking lot for two-wheelers, no space has been allotted for those coming to pick up and drop passengers, they say.
 
 The two-wheeler parking lot, located on the northern side of the station, is already insufficient to accommodate hundreds of vehicles that come, forcing hundreds of   to park their vehicles in the open space on the opposite side. Due to this, there is no assurance to the safety of the vehicles, rue the motorists.
 
 "It is unfair on the part of the railway authorities to force us into the parking area, where we have to pay for 12 hours, when we park our vehicles for just around 30 minutes. Before enforcing such action, authorities should first establish the required   to facilitate commuters," said L Rajkumar, a staff of a private concern in Trichy. 
 
 Railway officials keep on telling that they would set up an additional parking lot for two-wheelers, cars and bicycles along the new entry and exit lane, however, nothing has fructified so far, the vehicle users allege. 
 
 "Provision for a temporary parking lot should be established for this purpose as we are not allowed to park our vehicles other than the two-wheeler stand by RPF personnel," S Karthikeyan, a college student who arrived at the station to pick up his relative coming from Madurai.
 
 When contacted, a senior railway official said, "Since the space is being utilised for illegal parking, the new divisional railway manager instructed the officials to clear the area."
 
 
