NEW DELHI: With India suspending cross-border trade with   along the Line of Control (LoC), Jammu and Kashmir chief minister   on Wednesday expressed hope that Prime Minister   follows the footsteps of former prime minister   and resolves the present situation in the state and take forward ties with Islamabad.
 
  “The situation from 1989 till date has been very difficult. There have been ups and downs, but I am hopeful that we will be able to resolve it because the PM is very keen and always talking about toeing the line of Vajpayeeji and Vajpayeeji is a very popular leader not only among the mainstream politicians but also separatists and Pakistan,” Mufti told reporters on the sidelines of third edition of counter-terror conference organised by India Foundation.
  
  “Everybody talks about Vajpayeeji. I am sure if we tow his line we will be able to overcome it,” the chief minister added.
  
  Recalling that India and Pakistan have been fighting since 1947, Mufti said even then there were the Tashkent agreement and the Lahore agreement. “So, I am hopeful we will be able to pick up the threads from where we left, from Prime Minister’s visit to Lahore we should be able to move forward,” she added.
  
  The Indian authorities suspended cross-border trade with Pakistan along the LoC on Tuesday after Islamabad continued unprovoked ceasefire violation in the border district of Poonch. The firing severely damaged the Trade Facilitation Centre (TFC) at Chaka-da-Bagh.
  
  But ahead of the next Indo-Pak Permanent Indus Commission in Pakistan that is being viewed as an attempt at thaw relations after a year of frosty ties, Mufti expressed doubts over the utility of the 56-year-old   (IWT).
  
  “Indus Water Treaty is detrimental to interests of India,” Mufti said. This remark could be an attempt to reflect Jammu and Kashmir's expectations ahead of 113th edition of Permanent Indus Commission.
  
  Last September, Mufti had supported the Modi government’s position on suspending talks under IWT following terror strikes in the Uri Army camp.
  
  Emphasising on the need for good governance to combat terrorism, Mufti said, “We need good governance to shrink terrorist bases.” “I hope the PM who has moral authority will take forward the process. Pakistan has to abide by commitment there will be no infiltration,” Mufti said while referring to the Indo-Pak ties.
  
  However, Mufti contradicted the Modi government’s position on China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC). “China and Pakistan have economic corridor. Why can’t we be partners to the corridor. Pakistan wants us to be part of the  . We should join.” This is the second time that Mufti has supported CPEC.
