NEW DELHI: “Sentencing for killing a cow is five or seven or 14 in different states. But, in case of death of a human being caused by rash or negligent driving, sentence prescribed in law is only two years,” said a city court on Saturday, while awarding a two-year jail term to the son of a Haryana businessman for mowing down a motorcyclist with his   car in 2008.

 Additional sessions judge   held the accused,  , guilty under sections 304 A (causing death by negligence), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 279 (rash driving) of IPC. The court also directed Bhasin to give Rs 10 lakh as compensation to the victim’s family and Rs 2 lakh to the injured.
 
 The judge noted that on completion of three years in power, the government advertised various initiatives under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 26, 2017. On the completion of four years, the court wants the government to take steps for enhancing the sentence for the offence under Section 304-A IPC. 
 
 “Hence, a copy of this order be sent to Narendra Modi... to look into the sentence prescribed for the offence of causing death by negligence because sabka saath sabka vikas...is possible only when the people do not die in road accident in huge numbers,” the court said. “Human life is precious...road users have a fundamental right to life and liberty, which includes right to safety under Article 21 of the Constitution. It is the duty of the state to ensure safety for people on the roads and it cannot shy away from its duty.” 
 
 The court expressed its displeasure at the fact that even in Delhi, which is India’s capital, there are no exclusive lanes for non-motorised vehicle like bicycles. “Most of them are either used for parking or encroached upon by locals,” it said. “I am compelled to observe that India has a disreputable record of accidents,” the judge added. 
 
 Providing an anecdote from his own experience, the judge said, “Whenever I passed through the stretch (Ambedkar Nagar T-point to Moolchand), I saw two-four vehicles in the cycle lane. As far as foothpaths are concerned, everyone knows that in several places the same are occupied by people and vehicles are stationed or they are encroached upon.” 
 
 The court also cited the report of  , which says India accounts for 10% of the global road accidents with over 1.46 lakh fatalities annually—highest in the world.
 
