NEW DELHI: Nitish Kumar’s snapping of ties with RJD-Congress marks a mortal blow to attempts to craft a grand ‘secular alliance’ to take on BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, a development that is set to send the anti-saffron camp back to the drawing board but with fewer options at hand.

 Nitish’s drastic action means the departure of a leader who had credibility in popular estimates besides being a satrap whose victory as an   mascot, with the support of  , inflicted a rare defeat on  .
 
 It is set to leave a gaping hole in any alliance that comes up in future without him.
 
 Where it will hurt the ‘secular’ camp is that it will reconfigure the chess board in Bihar, which has 40 Lok Sabha seats. Faced with a rampaging BJP, Congress strategists had thought creating a ‘mahagathbandhan’ in 80-seat Uttar Pradesh and 40-seat Bihar would limit the BJP’s gains and put the ‘secular’ bloc back in contention in national sweepstakes, evident in how arch-rivals SP and BSP have backed the idea of joining hands after the assembly defeat in Lucknow.
 
 The idea of a grand alliance took shape when RJDJD( U)-Congress joined hands to defeat BJP in Bihar polls two years ago.
 
 The nature of divorce — pegged on JD(U)’s demand for resignation of Lalu’s son   as deputy CM on charges of corruption —goes beyond numbers and threatens to crystallise the political battle around the issue of corruption. 
 
 It is a plank on which the ‘secular’ alliance may not be comfortable given BJP’s seeming success in painting rivals BSP, SP, RJD and others as tainted.
 
 Much to the chagrin of the ‘secular’ camp, BJP’s Hindutva-plus strategy is widely seen to trump the opposition’s concerted bid to corner the Modi government on ‘communalism’ and ‘poor economy with lack of jobs’.
 
 So much so that an avowed ‘secularist’ like Nitish appears to see gains in re-embracing the BJP under Modi, after having divorced it on the issue of BJP making Modi its PM candidate in 2014.
 
 And yet, the tussle may go beyond numbers and issues to centre around atmospherics and political mood that strategists believe decides the game. Congress and allies are seen to be losing the battle of perception, a string of big assembly defeats coupled with exodus of allies.
 
 Gujarat seems a case in point where Shankarsinh Vaghela’s departure could upend what was seen as Congress’s best chance in Modi’s home state. Party leaders said the gloom about the future was leading to disarray.
 
