AHMEDABAD: In a move to curb the archaic practice of deploying police personnel for personal work of senior cops, the state home department has directed the   office to remove   deployed without permission at residences of  . 

 Acting on the home department’s directive, the DGP has withdrawn such guards from residences of about seven   officers.
 
 Sources from the home department said it had come to notice that some IPS officers had deployed guards, other than the official orderlies directly without obtaining proper permission from the office of the DGP.
 
 The age old orderly system has also come under heavy criticism, with police personnel deployed at senior police officers residences being made to do petty household jobs.
 
 Senior police officials said recently there was a flurry of videos on social media by jawans of paramilitary forces claiming that they were made to do other jobs, including washing of private cars belonging to officers while they had joined the forces to serve the nation.
 
 According to sources in the DGP office, one of the seven IPS officers who has been asked to clarify deployment of three guards at his residence without permission is Manoj Agarwal, currently posted as home secretary.
 
 According to sources Agarwal has also been asked to clarify why he was still holding an official car, which was provided to him during his tenure as the head of the police recruitment committee, at his residence.
 
 Sources added that a letter to withdraw the guards from Agarwal’s residence was shot with the signature of DIG S K Dave, currently posted in DGP’s monitoring cell.
 
 “I don’t know about others but had sent the letter on the directive of the DGP office,” said Dave.
 
 Meanwhile the IPS officers from whose residences the guards were removed, said they would now justify the deployment of guards at their residences with proper permissions.
 
 While DGP P P Pandey was not available for comments on the issue, several top police officials believe that issuance of letters only to particular officers would aggravate the ongoing row between two groups of IPS officers.
 
 Recently differences between two groups of IPS officers surfaced when the personal secretary to the DGP, PVK Chandrashekaran, was not allowed his eighth extension.
 
 While some officers supported the extension of Chandrashekaran, there were others who argued that other juniors were not getting promotions as he was being granted extensions. 
 
