MUMBAI: It’s been a hard day’s night for John, Paul, George and Ringo, still groggy after their long flight from London to Mumbai, as the four men collapse into a chair and make for a surreal sight.

 With more than a passing resemblance to  , Steve White who morphs into the head-shaking Paul McCartney, Gordon Elsmore who drums left-handed as Ringo Starr, Stephen Hill who wears his hair and guitar like George Harrison, and Paul Canning who turns into John Lennon, together comprise  , the longest-running Beatles   in the world. 
 
 Mumbai will get to witness the magic of the Liverpool quartet at   on Friday evening where the group will play a charity concert to raise funds for   that supports treatment of   at  .
 
 While both the acts—original and clone—have been successful in tipping the crowd into hysteria, The Beatles fell apart in 1970 and two of the Fab Four have since died, while The Bootleg Beatles continues to roll on. “In 1979, there was a musical in America called Beatlemania for which they wanted British boys. So they came to the UK and found four lads. When the show came to an end, those four lads who had learnt all that music and mannerisms did not know what to do with it, so they decided to go on their own as The Bootleg Beatles. It’s been 37 years and still going strong,” says White. 
 
 The band has been heard by members of The Beatles and joined on stage by David Bowie, Rod Stewart, Oasis and Iggy Pop. Their favourite anecdotes date to the time Harrison met his metamorphosed version and corrected a chord for ‘Free as a Bird’ and when McCartney threatened to heckle them in jest at the Queen’s golden jubilee celebrations in 2002.
 
 While their sing-alike, look-alike enactment is close to the distinctive quality of The Beatles with each gig spanning four eras from the moptop collarless suit to bushy moustache and flamboyant uniform, the only artistic licence that the band takes is with an eight part live orchestra to recreate certain soundscapes.
 
 But this lifetime of impersonation ends at the stage door. “We don’t take our role off stage and into our personal lives. And no, I don’t go home and take heroin!” smiled Canning, the Lennon impressionist. 
 
 
