BHOPAL: The Union government is finding it extremely difficult to recruit   in its hospitals, including the Bhopal Memorial Hospital and Research Centre (BMHRC) said Dr  , director general of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and secretary, department of health research (DHR) here on Wednesday.   is no exception, he said.

 Dr Swaminathan was in Bhopal to attend a meeting of   constituted monitoring committee to review various aspects of Bhopal gas victims’ medical care.
 
 BMHRC has been criticized by activists for being unable to attract required number of specialists and doctors. The centre caters to more than 5 lakh gas victims and their dependents and is administered by DHR.
 
 “Patient care as advised and directed by various court orders has to be ensured by hospital administration and the government. We have expressed issues about lack of medical care at BMHRC including immediate recruitment of more specialists and availability of medicines,” said activist Abdul Jabbar. 
 
 “There is an unsigned notice that a doctor should only perform four operations in a week and doctors have been told only to prescribe the medicines which are available in stock,” alleged Jabbar. 
 
 NGO activisits Rachna Dhingra, Satinath Sarangi, ND Jayprakash and monitoring committee member Purnendu Shukla also met Dr Swaminathan.
 
 Activists also pointed out the research and progress of ICMR run National Institute for Research in Environmental Health (NIREH). Dr Swaminathan also visited the new campus site for the institute at Bhauri. 
 
 ***
 
 BOX:
 
 Video-con to improve coordination
 
 In a move to improve coordination between Gas Rahat hospitals and BMHRC, web-based video conference meeting will be held every day. The decision was taken after a meeting with MP department of health and family welfare principal secretary Gauri Singh and DHR officials. There is a need to improve coordination between Gas Rahat department run hospitals and BMHRC, said an official. Another way to link up the two, is via an integrated hospital management information system. As per SC directive, health booklets of gas victims is also desired. Gas Rahat has 11 hospitals whereas BMHRC apart from its main campus at Karond, has 8-outreach units.
 
