KOLKATA:  ,  , crushed soft drinks bottles, broken tombstones and dogs jostle for space just next to the   of   at the  . As Kolkata gathers to pay respect at the grave of one of the greatest personalities of Bengal Renaissance on his 193rd birth anniversary on Wednesday, it can’t ignore the eyesore this space has become. Besides lack of funds and passionate youngsters in the Christian Burial Board that’s the custodian of this cemetery, the added problem is the adjoining ‘bandarpatti bustee’ residents of which treat the cemetery as a dumping ground.

 If the heritage status downgrade of Dutt’s Kidderpore home has caused fair amount of disgruntlement, this grave apathy in maintaining a decent environment at his graveyard is equally unsettling. Adhir Kumar, the general secretary of the Michael Madhusudan Swaran Samiti that organises a programme on January 25 at the cemetery in the presence of politicians and intellectuals is aware of the issue. “There was a time when the graves of Michael and Henrietta were in abject condition. Under the aegis of freedom fighter Mukur Sarbadhikari, efforts were made to restore them,” Kumar said.
 
 Though Dutt’s grave is relatively clean, one might occasionally find an empty cigarette packet thrown inside the enclosure by careless visitors. But just behind this tomb lies one of the dirtiest areas of the cemetery. “Earlier, the place used to be illuminated. There was a guard appointed by the Christian Burial Board to ensure no nuisance was committed. With the passage of time and lack of resources, things have deteriorated. It isn’t possible for us to clean the surroundings. We can appeal to the Christian Burial Board to do something about it,” Kumar said.
 
 Ranajoy Bose, executive member of the Christian Burial Board, too is aware of it. Fund is definitely an issue but the real problem is how to deal with grave vaults that belong to families whose successors now live abroad and aren’t that keen about coming to Kolkata to maintain the graves. Sometimes neglected grave vaults are located just next to the heritage grave, making it difficult for the Board to do anything there because of legal issues. “In this cemetery, we have 12,000 vaults and 1.5 lakh bodies. Because of the alluvial soil, there is an additional problem of tombstones breaking down easily,” Bose said.
 
 However, the most crucial issue is the sheer lack of respect for heritage by some people in the adjoining ‘bandarpatti’ slum. “Some ‘doms’ living in the bustee would throw pig entrails here,” said 74-year-old Bose.
 
 After the Institute of Neuro Sciences was built, some slum dwellers shifted out and the problem was partially sorted. But Bose alleged that people residing in the adjoining four-storied building have also contributed to the dirt. “If we had enormous amount of money and more structural assistance from KMC, this place could have been kept cleaner,” he said.
 
 
