Chennai: The new central government notification banning the sale and purchase of cattle from animal markets for slaughter has raised the hackles of farmers in the state, with many saying it would only compound the problems of cattle owners already reeling under a sever drought.

 The clause which says any owner wanting to sell cattle has to give an undertaking and sell it only to farmers is a violation of the fundamental rights enshrined in the Constitution, said Karthikeya Sivasenapathy, managing trustee of Senapathy Kangayam Cattle Research Foundation.
 
 “If you want to stop the killing of cattle, close down the abattoirs. Why are they targeting the poor cattle owner?” he said. The Centre, by introducing this rule, wants to create a religious divide among people, he charged.
 
 Kalingarayan Irrigation Society member V M Velayudham said the new rules were condemnable. Already, cattle owners across the state are struggling to survive due to the failure of the monsoon last year. “Many cattle owners are taking all efforts to protect their cattle. But, when they cannot afford to maintain the cattle, they have to sell them. The new rules notified by the Centre will only make it more difficult for them, he said.
 
 The use of cattle for farming had come down drastically, with just 50 % of the cattle population being used for such activities, Kodiveri Dam association president Subi Thalapathy said. A majority of the farmers in the state, who are able to procure tillers and other mechanised devices for farming at an affordable cost, have almost stopped using bulls. Maintaining cattle has become an additional burden for farmers/cattle owners who invariably have to sell them and it may be to a person who is not a farmer, he argued.
 
 In Tamil Nadu, bulls of the Bargur breed have always been raised for their meat. Within 300 days of their birth, the fattened animals are sold to abattoirs. “With no use for the farmer, how can he maintain cattle. These days, cattle maintenance has become an expensive proposition and the farmer has no other option except to sell cattle for a good price. If the state government can give an assurance on the maintenance of old and infirm cattle, the burden for farmers will come down,” he said.
 
 A clause in the notification, which prohibits the use of nose ring for bulls and the cows, clearly shows that those who drafted the policy wanted to indirectly bring imported breeds into the country to destroy the local population, said Sivasenapathy. “In Tamil Nadu, it is a tradition to put nose ring for cattle that have been domesticated.” 
 
 
