PATNA: The symbolic appropriation of Emperor   from ancient Indian history for cultural and political gains in the present times has now got a new twist in its saga in  , as the second partner of the NDA from the state after the   affiliated cultural organization Rashtriya Kushwaha Parishad (RKP) has taken to appropriating the ancient Indian emperor’s legacy.
 
  With that, the Bihar NDA has acquired a new twist in its tail. The Akhil Bharatiya Mahatma Phule Parishad (ABMPP), affiliated to   (RLSP) led by Union minister   in the PM Narendra Modi led government at the Centre, would celebrate the birth anniversary of Emperor Ashoka at S K Memorial Hall here on Monday. Upendra would be the key speaker on the occasion.
  
  “It is for the first time that the ABMPP is organizing the function here to celebrate the birth anniversary of Emperor Ashoka. We believe in his legacy of judicious rule that our history knows about and has also left for us,” said Rajesh Yadav, ABMPP national general secretary and RLSP national treasurer.
  
  Incidentally, RKP national president and BJP MLC Surajnandan Kushwaha announced at a press conference on Sunday that his organization would organize the function to celebrate the 2,322nd birth anniversary of Emperor Ashoka on April 8. The state BJP brass — party’s state chief Nityanand Rai, former deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, leader of opposition in the state assembly   and former state chiefs Nand Kishore Yadav and Mangal Pandey — would address the participants, he added.
  
  Curiously, Surajnandan had first organized ‘Maurya Yatra’ covering different parts of the state in 2013, when the then Gujarat CM Narendra Modi (NaMo) was declared the BJP’s PM candidate, and then followed it up by celebrating the birth anniversary of Emperor of Ashoka the next year. Further, after NaMo became the PM, the then posts and telegraphs minister Ravi Shankar Prasad released a postage stamp at a function held here in 2015 a few months before the Bihar assembly elections.
  
  “Emperor Ashoka was a nationalist. We celebrate his anniversary, because we also consider him as belonging to our Kushwaha (Koeri) caste. We are his ‘vanshaj (descendant)’ and cherish his memories to pass on to the future generations,’’ said Surajnandan.
  
  This has been the assertion of Surajnandan right from day one. This assertion also stirred up a national debate, as in no historical or non-historical reference there is mention of the caste label/identity of Emperor Asoka. In contrast, ABMPP considers him as belonging to all, not just one section or caste.
