MADURAI: Efforts will be made to make   free from open defecation in all the wards by the end of this year, special officer and corporation commissioner   said on Friday. 

 Presenting a budget of 2544 crore with a surplus of 1.89 crore for 2017-2018, Nanduri said so far 56 wards have been declared open defecation-free, and steps will be taken to declare the remaining 44 as   this year. 
 
 Presenting the budget, the commissioner said that streamlining of the entire process and collection of the pending dues for the civic body, with almost 90% of the taxes being collected by deadline of March 31 had helped in preparing a surplus budget. 
 
 Thrust will be given for the smart city programme for which a detailed project report (DPR) had been submitted to the government for 1,342 crore and 200 crore had been made for the year 2017-2018 with state and central governments contributing 100 crore each. 
 
 The core infrastructure elements under smart city programme would be adequate water supply, assured electricity supply, sanitation, solid waste management and good e-governance with citizen participation. Also, the heritage pathway from the   railway station to Thirumalai Naicker Mahal via Sri Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple has been taken up under   innovation initiatives and work is in progress at an estimate of 4 crore. 
 
 The newly-added wards of the Madurai Corporation from 73 to 100 are to get the underground drainage system and the Tamil Nadu water and drainage board has prepared a revised DPR for 617.30 crore under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) scheme. 
 
 Meenakshi temple has been selected as the iconic places under the Swachh Bharat mission and the Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) has come forward to contribute 11.36 crore for cleanliness and sanitation works around the temple, which will include reverse osmosis water ATMs, modular sewage treatment plant, traffic islands and e-toilets. 
 
 A proposal for 45 crore for the conversion of the causeway bridges at Oppulapadithurai and Kuruvikkaransalai has been submitted to the government for approval. 
 
 The education sector is also all set to get a boost in the budget with the higher secondary schools that do not have smart classrooms to have them installed and multi-sport and multi purpose sports facilities are to be provided to the schools.
 
 The commissioner said that steps will be taken to enhance the green cover of the city and a scrap waste sculpture park will be established here. Madurai is also to be the first city in the state to have a park for the disabled children, with all infrastructure and play equipment to help these children, this is being established at a cost of 30 lakh with public-private partnership. 
 
 A biomethanation plant and pyrolysis plant which will convert plastics into oil, are to be constructed under the PPT mode, this year at Vellaikkal in the Madurai, he added.
 
 
