'  is your quintessential Mumbai boy — casual, cool, unstarry, unassuming and funny. In an industry where being politically correct is the unwritten norm, his spontaneous repartees come as a breath of fresh air. In a freewheeling chat with BT, the young actor speaks about his upcoming film ' ', fitness, relationships and Katrina Kaif. 

 
 
 Fame has affected me in a good way. The truth is, I never wanted to be an actor; I grew up like any other kid. I didn’t belong to the film industry, nor did I think ‘main hero banoonga’. I’ve worked my way up doing supporting roles. I took up London Dreams (2009) because it was shot abroad (smiles). I love to watch rock concerts live, but it’s impossible to live that way after becoming an actor. All in all, it has been a journey of self-discovery. 
 
 
 
 Last year was full of ups and downs. When ' ' didn’t work, it affected me a lot. It hurts when a film doesn’t do well, as you put your heart and soul into it and expectations build up. Fortunately, I started shooting for 'OK Jaanu' within a month and that helped. There’s nothing like work to take your mind off setbacks. Now, I am nervous and excited as 'OK Jaanu' will release next week. But yes, it’s a nice way to start a year. 
 
 
 I don’t believe in making New Year resolutions, but I want to buy a house soon and spend more time with my family. I have strong willpower and when I decide to do something, I do it. I don’t need a particular day to make decisions.
  
 
 
 Sometimes, you go for dinner with a friend and things get blown out of proportion — that’s ridiculous. It’s like you can’t go to a friend’s house without being linked to her (Katrina). I don’t want to overthink and stop interacting with people because of this. After a while, you stop worrying about the repercussions and let people make their own assumptions. You get used to it; else, you won’t be able to have a conversation with anyone. 
 
  
  
 
 
 Let’s just say, I am chilling at the moment and would like to continue doing that. I am not taking things too seriously; I am not in that zone right now. 
 
 
 
 I like to work out and eat healthy because cinema is a visual medium and I cannot show up on the set with a pot belly. You’ve got to look appealing, unless your character requires you to be otherwise. But I also know that it’s not just about having a chiselled body. Cinema is getting more character-driven, so every role doesn’t require six-pack abs. For instance, 'Ok Jaanu' didn’t require me to sport six-pack abs or get rid of my chest hair, as I play a normal guy in the film. 
 
 
 
 'Aashiqui 2' was intense and Shraddha and I were excited to do 'Ok Jaanu' together, because it allows us to show a different side of ours to the audience. It’s an opportunity to get our off-screen camaraderie and humour on screen. 
 
 
 
 It’s an advantage to know that you are making something that’s done well already. The story has worked, and that makes you confident. They (the actors in the original) have set the bar high, but we’ve tried to add our own essence to this film. 
 
 
 
 It’s been seven years since I entered the industry and competition was always there. That’s the name of the game. I guess people are more focussed and professional now.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
