KOLKATA:  , the French economist who was awarded the   for his analysis of  , feels India needed to move more progressively on   to ensure it did not hurt the poor, and that more experts should have been consulted before the decision was taken.

 “I want to emphasise that one has to move progressively and ensure that the poor who are most dependant on cash don’t suffer too much. In countries like Denmark and Sweden, where the number of poor are few, the government is handing out debit cards with a small amount of prepaid money that will help the poor sustain without getting into debt,” Tirole said in reply to a question on the morality of demonetisation, when it has thrown up more invisible victims than direct beneficiaries.
 
 Fellow Nobel laureate  , who was also present, has already said that he considered the demonetisation decision was taken in a hurry without considering its consequence. “I don’t think this (demonetisation) decision was taken after considering all sides. It was taken hurriedly without thinking of consequences,” he told reporters at Santiniketan on December 30.
 
 Tirole, though, argued in favour of the move, saying it would help India fight corruption in the long run.
 
 Speaking to TOI on the sidelines of a lecture he delivered at Presidency University on Thursday morning, he said: “People want to get rid of cash for several reasons. For India, it is to do away with corruption. Cashless economy is probably a good thing, of which I am in favour. But by removing big denominations, one is not going to get the corrupt money right away. One will end up in a situation where this money is already invested in real estate or gold. What it will do is make future corruption difficult.”
 
 Tirole, however, felt more experts could have been consulted, hinting at the decision being driven by politics rather than economics. “There is more and more distress on experts, not just in India but across the world. Donald Trump, the president-elect of the US, dislikes experts and does not want to listen to anything they have to say on climate change, economy or anything else,” he pointed out.
 
 Terming Trump’s selection of climate change denialist Scott Pruitt to head the Environment Protection Agency (EPA) a “disaster”, Tirole said it was obvious he strongly despised advice from experts. 
 
 “It was the same for Brexit, where experts were again ignored. Even in my own country, there is more and more distress of experts,” said Tirole, who teaches economics at Toulouse University in France. 
 
 The work that won him the Nobel shows that not only is regulation vital for the growth of healthy capitalism and an entrepreneurial society, but it is essential for curbing crony capitalism.
 
 
