CHENNAI: When the government rolled out the   ( ) Rules in August, it promised a home for at least few of the 62,000 children living in various institutions.

 A month on, the undertaking is still on paper as district child protection units struggle for funds and manpower.
 
 The new rules for rehabilitation of children in conflict with law and those in need of protection emphasise on two alternatives for institutionalization, besides adoption foster care and sponsorship. Whi le officials in the Directorate of Social Defence maintain that they are planning a series of educational activities to promote both programmes, they are unsure of the outcome.
 
 Data sourced by TOI shows that since 2011 only five children have been placed in foster care by the government. The Directorate's records show 2,854 children received sponsorship in 2016. However, senior officials admit the amount given to them was nominal.“We usually give them `2,000 for a period of three months, and then we identify a new set of children,“ said the official.The department is allocated `10 lakh per year for the programme. “With this money , we can only sponsor around 40 children per district,“ he said.
 
 Sponsorship allows children to stay with their biological families with external financial support. “Most corporate companies that engage in CSR activity and individuals are unaware that the government has a similar programme too. In the absence of private participation, we have to make do with the limited funds we have,“ said an official. He said individuals and companies can approach the child protection units of the respective districts who are mandated to keep a record of children in need.
 
 R Vidyasagar, former child protection specialist, Unicef, said a study done five years ago revealed that 97% of the children in the state's orphanages had either a single parent or both parents or a near relative unable to take care of them. “ At least 70% of the parents voluntarily give their children to orphanages. Most of them cite financial reasons. Sponsorship is the only way to ensure the child does not grow up in an institution,“ he said. According to estimates by Unicef, a child needs at least `25,000 a year.
 
 Agnes Shanti, former chairperson of the  , was among the proponents of foster care when she was in office in 2013.
 
 Foster care can be long term, short term, or children can be placed in a group based on orders of the Child Welfare Committee on the recommendation of the District Child Protection officer.
 
 “We tried to push the programme among couples in the IT sector who already had one child and wanted to foster another on voluntary basis without legal hassles and the long wait for adoption, but there were few takers,“ she said.
 
 Activists say the government can't use shortage of manpower as an excuse for its failure to conduct follow-ups.
 
 “If it can't ensure the implementation of programmes, what is its responsibility?“ asked A Narayanan Ananth, director of city-based advocacy group CHANGEIndia.
 
 
