Ludhiana: The autopsy report of 20-year-old theft accused, who died two days ago in Jodhan police custody, mentions head injury as the likely cause of death.

 The report was prepared by a board comprising three doctors following the autopsy in Ludhiana civil hospital on Tuesday evening. The findings of report are significant as cops had claimed that Ashu Kalra of Mini Chappar in Mandi Ahmedgarh had died of cardiac arrest.
 
 Kalra, who was picked up by Jodhan police in a theft case at Chappar Mela, had died under mysterious circumstances on September 18. While family members of the deceased had blamed cops for the death, senior police officials had maintained that the youth had died of cardiac arrest.
 
 The autopsy report, a copy of which is with TOI, said, “In this case, cause of death in our opinion is a result of extensive head injury. Injuries are ante mortem in nature. Any other additional cause of death to be ascertained after chemical examination report.” 
 
 There were 14 injuries in all as per the post-mortem report.
 
 A board comprising Dr Bindu Nalwa, Dr Harish Kripal and Dr Rajesh Garg conducted the autopsy on Tuesday evening.
 
 Sources in the hospital said the viscera of the deceased has been sent to Forensic Science Laboratory in Kharar for chemical examination, which would help find the exact cause of death.
 
 When asked to respond on the findings of the post-mortem report, senior police officials refused to respond, saying that a judicial probe was already underway. “A judicial inquiry is being done by a judicial officer after the sessions judge passed the orders for the same. We will not comment on the issue as the matter is investigated by ‘elaqa’ magistrate. The post-mortem examination of the deceased and cremation was done on Tuesday”, said superintendent of police (detective) Gurdeep Singh.
 
 Meanwhile, Ashu’s cousin Harish Kalra said he was young, hale and hearty and there is no way he could have suffered a cardiac arrest. “He was picked up by the police and we came to know about his death on Monday evening,” he said.
 
 Police sources said that the relatives of the deceased including his maternal uncle Krishan Kumar agreed to allow the post-mortem after an assurance that the family would be adequately compensated. Senior police officials on their part, however, declined to come on record over the issue of compromise.
 
 Harish Kalra said that cops have promised to pay a compensation of Rs 11.5 lakh to Ashu’s mother. “His father had died more than a decade ago, there is nobody in the family to pursue the case,” he added. 
 
 The issue, however, has led to a row with human rights activists claiming that those responsible for the death should be allowed to go scot-free.
 
 “We are shocked to hear about the death of a person in the custody of Jodhan police. What is more shocking is that a woman constable too had died under mysterious circumstances in the same police station. We just hope that the State Human Rights Commission should take suo motu cognizance of this incident or we will approach it,” said human rights-cum-social activist Keemti Rawal.
 
 
