NEW DELHI: "In golf, there's a chance to change your life every week." That's what   had learnt over the years. After 18 months of frustration and intermittent periods of self doubt, the last week of April brought good tidings as he turned in a final round card of eight-under 64 to claim the Yeangder Heritage by two strokes in Chinese Taipei.

 The Asian Tour jinx was broken after nearly 12 years, but he "didn't do anything different". "I was working hard like any other week but this time everything fell into place -luck, plans, game, the putts. It's not that you create this magic formula out of the air," the Delhi golfer said a day later, contented at home watching   cricket on the television "much to the displeasure" of his wife Maya.
 
 The 35-year-old knows it will all start from zero again when he tees up two weeks later in Thailand. But for now, he is looking forward to a new addition to the family in August and enjoying the fruits of yesterday's success. "Winning is the greatest feeling. It was all a da ze immediately but slowly sinking in. All the times I was second guessing myself, thinking was it bad form or just the end of the road?
 This takes away all the pain, and fills me up with hunger and eagerness. Golf, or any other game, teaches you to never give up."
 
 Olympics 2020 is on the mind of the 2002 Asian Games gold medalist. "The Majors mean a lot to me and I am going for the qualification tournaments. I have five to seven years of top golf in me. I wanted to qualify for Rio but because of health and other reasons, I couldn't pursue the goal. You need to strive for something. Now I am setting it as a direction, path."
 
 Seven months ago, Kapur was lying on a hospital bed recuperating from a liver abscess operation, and dreaming of nothing more than to be competitive. He returned to the fold two weeks later but in hindsight, he knew he made a mistake. "I was too eager to make up for lost time. The doctors prescribed rest for two months but I didn't listen. I thought if I could walk, I could play. It was only after my first 18 holes in Korea when I just didn't have the strength to get on the bus I realized I had come back sooner. It kind of snowballed. I think it happens to everyone, look at Tiger. It's only in the last two months that I've been fully fit. It's like playing Ranji to prepare for Tests, I should have played smaller events."
 
 The learning never stops. The irony is that sometimes one has to take a step back to move forward. "2013 was a good year for me with my Challenge Tour wins and  's invitational tournament triumph. I was just outside the World Top 100 but post the US Open in 2014, everything went downhill. I wanted to take my game to a different level and put too much pressure on myself."
 
 Frustration followed as he yearned to be a complete player. "There was so much doubt that I turned to others. The technical changes turned out to be detrimental. Then I realized it was all about going back to the basics."
 
 Shiv will be going back to the place where it all started in a fortnight's time -the   in Bangkok, the venue of his   Masters of Asia victory in his rookie 2005 year. Life begins again, but with a new perspective.
 
 '  used to give me spiritual advice'
 
 Kapur had dedicated his Yeangder win to late actor Vinod Khanna. "He was my father's childhood friend," said Shiv. "He used to give me spiritual advice and gave me my first book on Osho. He taught me how to control my emotions and be a good person. He was always humble."
 
