KOLKATA: Even as the new health law puts pressure on private clinical establishments to rationalize their charges, a city   has set the cat among pigeons by introducing uniform doctors’ fees, investigation and procedural charges for patients admitted across their rooms and cabins. 

 An overwhelming majority of hospitals in Kolkata continue to have differential rates for patients admitted in their suites, private cabins and general wards. Doctors’ fees, investigation charges and other service costs vary as much as 10%-15% depending on the kind of room you choose. The difference in charges for a week-long stay in a six-bedded cabin and a suite could be as wide as 50%-60%.
 
 But now, Belle Vue Clinic has done away with the differential rates. Other than the bed charge, patients are being charged uniformly for everything else, irrespective of whether they are being treated in a cabin or a ward. Every bill is accompanied by a notice which declares that the ‘charges for doctors’ fees, operation theatre and investigation have no link with the bed charges’. “We believe the system of fixing charge as per the room category was not fair. So, we have made it uniform,” said P Tondon, CEO, Belle Vue.
 
 While it’s not illegal to have different rates, many believe it’s unfair to differentiate between patients on the basis of the beds they opt for. “While a doctor might be paid more for attending to a patient individually in a private cabin, there’s no logic behind fixing a higher rate for an investigation or a procedure for which no extra effort is being put in. Nor is the hospital incurring any extra cost,” said a hospital official.
 
 A top official of a leading TPA said most city hospitals stick to differential pricing for patients. “The doctors’ fee, investigation charges, service charges generally differ with the room. In a cabin, all the charges will be higher than a bed in the ward,” he said. The official added that hospitals generally argue that through differential pricing they cross-subsidize patients in the wards. But the difference is often much higher than the subsidy offered. 
 
 “Ward patients are supposed to be subsidized with the extra amount generated from patients in cabins or in semi-private rooms who pay a higher rate. But it’s not always done very honestly. Some hospitals are contemplating a move from the system,” he said.
 
 Patients in luxury suites and semi-private cabins have to be attended by extra staff which raises the cost, according to Rupak Barua, CEO, AMRI Hospitals. “Unless we charge a little more for the services, it will be difficult to serve ward patients at a reasonable rate. We are looking into our charges, though,” said Barua.
 
 At  , too, investigation charges, doctors’ fees and procedural charges vary according to the kind of room a patient has been admitted into. “Those admitted in a suite obviously pay the highest for services, followed by those in semi-private rooms and then wards,” said a doctor at Fortis. Woodlands Hospital follows a similar system.
 
 Eminent cardiac surgeon Kunal   defended the private hospitals’ decision to have differential rates. “If you look at it from the point of view of morals and principles of healthcare, it’s unfair. But you can’t deny the private healthcare sector the right to generate a decent profit,” said Sarkar.
 
 A prominent cardiac hospital in south Kolkata has two rate categories, one for its private cabins and the other for twin-sharing rooms. “But our procedural and investigation charges are uniform for all. Some extra charges are levied for providing personal care, though,” said a hospital representative.
 
 
