NEW DELHI: In an unprecedented action, the   ordered the Tamil Nadu government on Monday to appoint afresh 11 of the 14 members of the state public service commission, saying mass appointment to constitutional posts in a single day smacked of arbitrariness.

 Five years ago, the SC had quashed the appointment of P J Thomas as central vigilance commissioner saying pendency of a criminal case against him would vitiate the institutional integrity of CVC. The SC had quashed Thomas’ appointment despite acknowledging his personal integrity.
 
 Following this rationale, a bench of Chief Justice J S Khehar, Justice D Y Chandrachud and Justice L N Rao refused to stay a Madras HC decision to quash the   appointments made on January 31 last year.
 
 Appearing for the TN government, attorney general   questioned the judiciary’s power to interfere in appointments to Constitutional posts. 
 
 The bench said: “We agree it is the sole prerogative of the government to make the appointments. But when appointments to 11 constitutional posts are made in a single shot, it is bad. The first illustration is that of a district judge who was refused extension of service from 58 years to 60 years by the HC.”
 
 Rohatgi said the retirement age was 58 years for the district judge. He was denied extension and not prematurely retired to make him unfit to be appointed as member of TNPSC.   Khehar said: “Please do not give this argument. I have done this most part of my life as a judge and know why a district judge is denied extension of service from 58 years to 60 years.”
 
 DMK member   had petitioned the HC alleging that of the 11, six were lawyers owing allegiance to the ruling  , one was a district judge rejected by the HC from grant of extension, one an IAS officer whose ACR was full of remarks putting a question mark on his integrity, and another was a draughtsman who had a diploma in civil engineering.
 
 The HC in its December 22 judgment said: “It is on the anvil of the election notification, suddenly, these posts were filled... only the chosen ones were asked to just submit their biodata.”
 
 Rohatgi said the Constitution did not lay down anything except the qualification for the members. The CJI replied: “(This) does not mean you can appoint anyone. Would you not examine whether the person is suitable to hold the post?”
 
