NAGPUR: About 250 teachers from Nagpur   (ZP) schools will get a hands-on intensive two-day training on how to record, edit and even upload  .

 The  , tentatively scheduled for March 25 and 25, is part of a process to increase the number of techno-savvy teachers in the state so that technology can be leveraged to increase quality of education in classrooms.
 
 Dipendra Lokhande, district education officer, said, “This training session will be beneficial for teachers who are interested in understanding how they can improve the way education is imparted in classrooms.”
 
 The state’s prestigious campaign Pragat Shaikshanik Maharashtra (PSM) puts a lot of onus on the use of technology. The state education department believes that if students are taught using visual aids, then even comprehension of complex topics will be simplified.
 
 Pramod Wankhede, part of the team organizing the seminar, said, “We will be sending out the details soon so that maximum teachers can participate. Our aim is to enhance teachers’ skills and make them adept in handling videos.”
 
 Gajanan Waghmare, a ZP school teacher who is playing a crucial role in the upcoming seminar, said, “We have invited two experts from western Maharashtra who will guide the teachers on making perfect videos. The educational videos should look professional and impart quality education.”
 
 The state government has been pushing education officials to innovate and introduce new methodologies using technology for making learning ‘fun’ for all the students. 
 
 For this, the state government started a group called ‘techno-savvy teachers’, an online community, which grew fast with thousands of teachers registering voluntarily in its database.
 
 Information about registration details is spread from education department officials to teachers under their jurisdiction, and those willing can join. This platform helped teachers from government and government-aided schools to come together and build an an immensely powerful knowledge-sharing resource community.
 
 Waghmare said, “Now, tech-savvy teachers across Maharashtra are connected through WhatsApp and even Facebook pages where best of practices are shared. Teachers right from Mumbai to Gadchiroli are communicating directly now and learning from each other’s experiments.”
 
 To push the digital education campaign even further, the state government has asked all schools to install LCD 32”-inch screen TVs in every classroom by March 31. But as reported by TOI, that target is almost impossible to achieve in such a short time period.
 
 Lokhande said, “I look at it as a beginning because at least now almost every school has one LCD installed where students can view educational videos and other related content. Soon, things will get ramped up and we will reach a point where each and every classroom shall have a television set installed.”
 
 The training seminar scheduled later this month will focus on producing content for these TV sets. While already a lot of it is available on the net made entirely by government school teachers, there is a need to keep the content updated.
 
 Waghmare said, “Playful learning videos, like maths tables sung in a melodious tune, help students memorize better. Our focus is to ultimately produce enough quality content to improve standard of our students.”
 
