MUMBAI: India’s social sector programmes are usually believed to be poorly planned and shoddily implemented. But a new study which analysed Indian non-profits says that India- faced with a plethora of challenges- is actually offering lessons across the world, and particularly to, US. 

 The study’s other surprising finding is, instead of disrupting the government, about 80% of these fast-growing organisations studied, seek to collaborate with it, to reach out to the socially and economically challenged population.
 
 The study by philanthropy advisory,   and recently published in   says there might be no better lab than India for studying the challenges non-profits face in trying to scale up, while stretched for resources.
 
 Close to 80% of Indian organizations we studied apply the collaborative mindset with government institutions– the most prevalent,” said Bridgespan partner and coauthor of the study, Soumitra Pandey. “They seek either to fill gaps in existing programmes, like Akshaya Patra’s assistance with providing midday meals to school children, or to spur innovation by example (Agastya’s hands-on learning programmes in science, technology, engineering and math delivered to government schools by van or motorcycle)”
 
 Bridgespan studied 20 Indian nonprofit organizations ïncluding Aravind Eye Care, EducateGirls, Karuna Trust, Mamta Health Institute, Pratham, SEWA, Gram Vikas and Goonj, that have deftly managed the tension between scale and scarcity. It identified five recurring mind-sets that India’s nonprofit leaders use to maximize outreach, and assist millions of people in need:
 
 The denominator mindset: When thinking about a nonprofit’s impact as a fraction, the denominator represents the total size of the need, and numerator the quantity of need that the nonprofit is currently meeting. Many of India’s nonprofits use denominator thinking to stay focused on addressing the total size of the need, rather than on perfecting a solution that serves relatively few.
 
 The dignity mindset: Elevating the humanity of each participant is critical when confronted with addressing the needs of millions. Many of India’s nonprofits focus on preserving an individual’s dignity, in an effort to avoid reducing and compartmentalizing the human experience into numbers on a spreadsheet.
 
 The radical frugality mindset: When scarcity abounds, most Indian nonprofits not only focus on reducing costs, but find ways of using frugality to scale up. They optimize operational expenses and rein in capital expenditures, while at the same time ensuring that no cuts are made in areas that might starve innovation.
 
 The innovative hiring mindset: One of the biggest impediments to a nonprofit’s growth in India is the scarcity of people who have the right skills to fill certain types of jobs. Some nonprofits have responded by searching for people in overlooked but promising corners of the talent pool.
 
 The collaborative mindset: While would-be innovators in Western countries tend to focus more on “disrupting the system” or “thinking outside the box,” many of India’s larger nonprofits have sought to innovate within the system, and make government a vital ally.
 
 More often than not, the leaders of nonprofit organizations that work closely with government institutions also ensure that their organizations’ roles and functions map closely to the government’s. Their logic: The more they mirror the government’s organizational structure, the easier it will be to build productive and collaborative partnerships with the government.
 
 Interestingly, some of the mindsets fueling growth for Indian NGOs are important food for thought for US social sector, where change tends to start in pilot projects, smaller increments, versus thinking first of the denominator of total need, Bridgespan partner Rohit Menezes, coauthor of the study, told TOI.
 
 “But one mindset, radical frugality, already is taking hold (in US). In one example, a longstanding, but relatively costly clinical prevention programme for diabetes is radically lowering its costs by moving sessions to community-based organizations, like the YMCA, that see youth frequently and can reinforce behaviour change, or to online-supported treatment”, he adds. 
 
 In another example, US nonprofit College Summit, which helps low-income youth gain access to college and post-secondary degrees, recently lowered the cost of its programme through technology, which allowed increase to reach sixfold.
 
