AMARAVATI: Contrary to the pro-farmer posturing of N   government, a capital region farmer whose home was bulldozed four months ago for the foundation-stone-laying ceremony of administrative and finance blocks in Amaravati is yet to receive the promised compensation despite knocking on the doors of practically every government office in Vijayawada and Guntur. While Union finance minister   announced tax relief in the Budget for the 25,000 farmers who had to give up land for Amaravati, officials of the capital city area seem to have no time for local farmer couple Prameela Rani and Rathaiah.

 Incidentally, Jaitley was the chief guest at the founda tion ceremony. Rathaiah's land (Survey No. 346) at Rayapudi village in Thullur mandal was chosen by the `vastu' consultant of the state government, but his house-cum-shed was an obstacle. So, district collector Kantilal Dande met the farmer and officials were directed to clear the area. However, Rathaiah resisted saying he would not remove the building as it was not part of the land which he had surrendered under the Land Pooling Scheme (LPS). Stumped, officials promised to pay for da mages. Fearing trouble if he stretched the issue too far, Rathaiah agreed and allowed the administration to perform the function on his 0.3 cents.
 
 The Guntur district administration went into an overdrive and spent several lakhs to make the foundation ceremony a grand success, but then forgot Rathaiah.
 
 The officials who promised him compensation for damages, started questioning him, said Rathaiah, adding that he had visited the local   (CRDA) office in Thullur as many as 100 times.Officials finally directed the roads and buildings (R&B) department to make an assessment of damages and submit a report. After another two months, R&B executive engineer (EE) P   submitted a report to the superintending engineer (SE) stating that `2.8 lakh be paid to Rathaiah.
 
 But nothing has moved since and Rathaiah's wait continues as Guntur district joint collector   reportedly told him that they were under no obligation to compensate him.
 
