KOLKATA: Kolkata is poised for a major infrastructure change. With the   allocating a huge Rs 1,800 crore for city’s   for 2017-18 financial year, citizens can expect improvement in areas of water supply, roads, sewerage, solid waste management and parks, among other things.

 Mayor   placed the Rs 4709.01 crore budget on Saturday.
 
 For the first time, the KMC has earmarked 38% of its budget allocation for infrastructure development. The civic authorities have increased the total budget outlay from Rs 3,745.10 crore to Rs 4,709.01 crore this year. This has been possible thanks to the special development funds from the state government and loan from a foreign donor agency. 
 
 The civic top brass will offer a major tax reform for city’s property owners.
 
 Come April, the property tax payers will be able to apply online for determination of property tax under Unit Area Assessment (UAA). The KMC assessment department will set special helpdesks across the city to train property owners on filling the UAA online.
 
 A section of south Kolkata residents who suffer from an acute water crisis may finally get adequate filtered-water supply from Garden Reach water treatment plant. A new plant with a capacity to produce 25 million gallons of filtered water will be constructed to cater drinking water needs of Joka, Behala, Tollygunge, Kalighat and Kidderpore. Residents of Cossipore, R G Kar Road, Northern Avenue, Bagbazar, Hatibagan may be fortunate enough to get a 24-hour water supply if an   funded project bears fruit. Under the project, the KMC will install water meters in housing complexes of these areas to calculate the nature of wastage of filtered water before going for a 24x7 water supply. Similarly, people staying in areas off Bypass may get 12-hour metered filtered water supply.
 
 Residents in some areas of north Kolkata living amid a sinking feeling because of inundation, may finally get relief from waterlogging with the KMC sewerage and drainage department taking up upgrade project in areas like Ultadanga Road, Raja Dinendra Street and Picnic Garden Road apart from giving special relief to residents of Behala, Joka and E M Bypass by laying permanent underground sewer lines under Kolkata Environment Improvement Project (KEIP).
 
 The city will look cleaner with the KMC solid waste management department investing majorly on buying sophisticated machines for garbage disposal and installation of more compactor stations to replace waste spilling vats. Some of city’s major roads including AJC Bose Road, Gariahat Road, Northern Avenue, Bishop Lefroy Road and Roy Bahadur Road will get widened by next year. So in all probability, city’s infrastructure is slated to take a big leap in the year ahead.
 
 
