Mumbai: The pioneering family of organized recruitment services in India, the Agrawals are consolidating their presence in executive search by merging the operations of   and the erstwhile  .

 Executive search firms Accord Group and Stanton Chase India have combined forces to widen the reach and leverage senior candidate access and engagement in the country and across the globe. Accord has provided leadership executive search services to companies in India and the region for two decades. Similarly, Stanton Chase has been operating in this space with a national team. The merged entity, which will be named “Accord”, will have teams across Mumbai, Delhi, Gurgaon, Bengaluru, Chennai and Kolkata.
 
 Over the last few years, Stanton Chase India has seen a few changes in its franchise arrangements. Three years ago, R Suresh, who was heading Stanton Chase International’s India venture, exited the franchise. Later, the Agrawals took over the franchise operations for Stanton Chase India with founder B P “Bish” Agrawal as its chairman. However, its business interests did not clash with Accord Group India, a founding partner of  , one of the fastest growing global networks in executive search with a global footprint and comprising around 350 partners in 35 major markets in the world.
 
 Sonal Agrawal, managing partner, Accord Group India, told TOI: “The promoter family will now give up the India franchise for Stanton Chase International and merge the business with Accord Group India, which will bring the combined business under the AltoPartners’ global network.” It is not known who will take on the India franchise for Stanton Chase International.
 
 Aftert the merger,   will chair the combined firm, and his daughters   and   will be the managing partners. “Combining two powerful firms allows us to significantly widen, deepen and further leverage senior candidate access and engagement in India and across the globe. Our team comprises an unmatched group of senior and experienced consultants with over 500 man-years of consulting experience with deep and unparalleled sectoral domain and functional knowledge,” said Agrawal, while adding, “the merger has allowed the firm to invest in more specialised verticals and services and significantly enhanced its research capability”.
 
 The businesses under the two entities largely complemented each other. While Stanton Chase India serviced clients in the industrial and manufacturing segments, Accord Group India services clients in the consumer and services segments. Accords clients range from large conglomerates to medium-sized corporations which have operations in the Indian sub-continent, and are equally split between global and Indian companies. In addition, the firm also works with private equity portfolio companies.
 
 
