NAGPUR: Like every year, the   (NMC) has decided not to run a single city bus for almost one and a half days during the Holi festivities. The NMC’s   it through a media release on Thursday evening.

 Confirming the decision, a senior official from   told TOI that the bus will remain off the roads from 7pm on March 12 till March 13 on account of Holi. The operations will resume on the next day on March 14.
 
 Most of the drivers are from other cities, and almost 60% of the   have applied for leave for Holi. “Last year too, we had not operated the buses,” the officer said. “In 2015, the NMC had operated city buses but a couple of buses were also smashed by some hooligans,” he added. Around 1.20 lakh commuters use the city buses every day.
 
 The decision is strange since state-run   does not stop plying buses on Holi. It only reduces the frequency in the morning hours. In Mumbai, the local bus service BEST and local trains run fewer services on public holidays and Sundays. No other city in the country ever closes down its services on account of any holiday as it comes under the essential services.
 
 Commuters expressed concern over this move of the NMC. Achal Gajbhiye, a college student and a resident of Kamptee said: “I travel to college via city bus. The decision will cause inconvenience as we have classes on that day. I will have no choice but to hire an autorickshaw on that day. Something similar like this happened some time ago, and we students had to show our displeasure to ensure proper working of buses.”
 
 “My major means of conveyance is bus. It is going to become really problematic if buses are stopped. I will have no choice but to opt for an autorickshaw. It is going to cost quite the amount to travel from Hingna to Nandanvan as my office is there. I believe hiring an auto rickshaw will be even more difficult on Holi,” pointed out Umesh Singh, a marketing officer.
 
 Another miffed commuter Vishu Verma said, “I have my Std X board exams. If buses are stopped on the day of the exam, then it is going to be really problematic as I’ll have to hunt for an autorickshaw. I travel a long distance from Isasani to Dhantoli and so I’ll have to go out of my way to make sure that I reach the exam centre on time.”
 
