PUDUCHERRY: The ban on   along highways may have led to the closure of 162 shops in the Union   but the resultant pinch on   has been   -- just Rs 7 lakh only. According to excise  , Puducherry (including Mahe, Yanam and Karaikal) had around 460 liquor outlets as on March 31, 2017. 

 By April 1, 2017, that number came down to 300, thanks to the Supreme Court ban on liquor shops along the highways. Yet the excise revenue month-to-month comparison shows just a tiny dip -- the excise revenue for the month of April 2016 was Rs 53 crore whereas April 2017 clocked justa Rs 7 lakh loss. Industry sources say this shows that there has been a sharp increase in boot-legging to neighbouring Chennai which has made up for the loss of revenue due to the closure of the highway booze shops. Puducherry’s lower liquor excise duties create a price differential with neighbouring Chennai and Bengaluru and is one of the city's prime tourist attractions. 
 
 “There have always been people who come to Pondy and stock up on liquor,” said a liquor store owner in the city. “That trend is true for brandy and whisky brands because these are the categories popular in Chennai and Bengaluru respectively.”
 
 So part of the expected shortfall is on account of the movement of liquor between Puducherry, Chennai and Bengaluru. But there are a couple of more reasons for the marginal shortfall. “The real brunt of the shutdown of liquor shops along the highway will come in the next couple of months,” said another prominent liquor store owner. “Across the country, there has been a 30-35% drop in liquor sales and Pondy will be no exception.”
 
 A number of liquor shops denotified have already paid the necessary amounts to the government but have not been able to shift to a new location. Others are waiting for the clearance on denotified arterial roads to come through. Till that happens, they will remain shut and the full impact of that closure on excise duties will happen in the first quarter of the fiscal, said sources.
 
 Puducherry’s liquor rates are anything between 10-20% cheaper than Chennai or Bengaluru. The city’s liquor excise rates have been one of its chief tourism triggers given that it gets most of its domestic tourists from these two neighbouring states. With the court ban on highway liquor stores, that pull is now more prominent for day trippers looking for a toast or two.
 
 
