NEW DELHI: With   stumbling at the threshold of power in Goa and Manipur, party general secretaries   and   have come under fire for failing to cobble majorities in the two states.

 A day after it became clear that Congress had fumbled after landing within striking distance of forming governments in Goa and Manipur, the party was agog with how its famed management skills were found wanting just when power games mattered the most to its fortunes.
 
 Success in forming governments in the tiny states, with Punjab already in the bag, would have helped Congress arrest some of the perception of post-2014 decline, especially in the wake of humiliating defeats in UP and Uttarakhand.
 
 In party circles, the criticism is centred around Singh and Joshi. In Goa, Congress is seen to have failed in the basic step required in the event of a hung assembly — of locking support of   of Vijay Sardesai ahead of every other task. 
 
 In Manipur, Congress had to keep the independents and smaller outfits ready for contingency because it was predicted that it could fall short of numbers. Party leaders said the principal failing was the inability of Congress managers to anticipate that   would be on its toes to cobble support of smaller outfits and independents, which required them to counter the rival by moving in first. 
 
 The other failure was that Singh could not ensure timely election of the leader of the legislature party, which would have enabled them to stake claim ahead of BJP. It provided BJP with crucial time to win over support of minor players and form a coalition government. 
 
 Viswajeet Rane’s resignation from Congress has already shown that the party is vulnerable in view of BJP holding the levers of power. Rane is expected to vacate his seat for CM  . 
 
 In case of Joshi, even his travel to Imphal came after the results while BJP had its men stationed in advance to target smaller parties and independents, Congress leaders said. 
 
 According to a senior office-bearer, multiple-term chief minister Ibobi Singh also faltered in covering his flanks with smaller outfits despite knowing them personally for so many years.
 
