HYDERABAD:  , an essential ingredient in Indian kitchens, is `desi', and its origins are somewhere in  .
In an important finding that could help India file a patent on tur dal, scientists from the city-based   for Semi-Arid Tropics ( ), and eight other research institutes from across the world, have traced the origin of the first cultivated Tur dal or pigeonpea to India.
 
 India has lost patent fights for several plants because it could not prove that they were Indian in origin.
 
 The researchers traced the origin of cultivated or domesticated tur dal to India while conducting re-sequence of the genome or DNA of as many as 292 varieties of this special legume. They also discovered new traits such as resistance to various diseases that affect the crop and its insensitivity to photo-period (the duration of daylight hours required for reaching maturity). The study was published in the journal, Nature Genetics, on Monday night.
 
 According to an ICRISAT statement, this major breakthrough will lead to the development of superior varieties of the legume, which can enable higher production and profits for smallholder farmers, better market value and bring it within an affordable price range for the consumer, especially the poor. But, the crop yield has remained stagnant over the last six decades.
 
 Tur dal is cultivated over thousands of acres in Telang ana and AP . Scientists from the Institute of Biotechnology, Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University (PJTSAU), Hyderabad, were also part of the research group.
 
 Dr Rachit Saxena, senior scientist (pigeonpea genomics), ICRISAT, said, “The research mapped similarities and dissimilarities between modern cultivators, land races and wild species to arrive at source and subsequent movement of pigeonpea from South Asia to sub-Saharan Africa and finally to Central and South America.“ICRISAT's director general, Dr David Bergvinson said, “This breakthrough will help us better understand grain's quality traits, unlock huge potential of this crop and allow farmers access to high value markets.“
 
