NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court said on Friday that the ban on sale of firecrackers in the   would   after the   told the court that those available in the capital have failed to pass the pollution test. The court directed all manufacturers make full disclosure regarding chemical contents on the packets of crackers.

 Accepting the submission of the board, a bench of Justices Madan B Lokur and Prafulla C Pant said that companies should not be allowed to sell firecrackers without their samples being tested by the government agencies to meet the laid down norms. 
 
  had directed way back in 2005 to maintain a standard on chemical composition for firecrackers to ensure that they do not cause excessive air and noise pollution but manufactures have failed to comply with the order.
 
 CPCB, which has prepared a report on harmful contents in the firecrackers, told the court that chemicals contained in them exceeded the safety limit fixed by the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation(PESO). It was also pointed out that the manufacturers did not display the chemical contents on packets of firecrackers as directed by court more than a decade ago.
 
 Advocate Vijay Panjwani, appearing for the Board, told the bench that CPCB had no facilities to undertake chemical analysis and it was done by Shriram Institute of Industrial Research - a private institute- which came to the conclusion that crackers available in the market did not fulfil the fixed standards, leading to excessive noise and air pollution.
 
 “The comparison of chemical compositions of firecrackers samples analysed by the laboratory with reference to the chemical formulae prescribed by PESO show that some of the parameters are exceeding the prescribed chemical formulae prescribed by PESO,” the report said.
 
 The board filed its report in compliance of the order of apex court which had on November 11 banned sale of firecrackers in the NCR and had directed the board to examine the contents of firecrackers. 
 
 “The grim situation of air quality adversely affected the right to life of the citizens,” the court had said. The firecracker traders pleaded they should be allowed to sell their stocks outside NCR. The bench, however, made it clear that it would not allow polluting firecrackers to be sold in other cities.
 
 
