HYDERABAD: With the water at Srisailam and   reservoirs drying up, fireworks are expected to take place when Telangana and Andhra Pradesh officials attend the meeting of the   (KRMB) scheduled to be held in Delhi on May 30. The meeting is crucial for the two states as less than 2 TMC feet of water is available as against a demand of over 20 TMC feet. Both Telangana and   have been arguing that the other state had utilized more than what was awarded by the board and are gearing up to present a detailed report on the `over drawal' of water by the other.

 KRMB has to take a decision on pumping water from below 502 feet at Nagarjunasagar and below 775 feet at Srisailam to utilise the available 2 TMC feet water. While the previous award of the board allotted the water to AP , Telangana raised its objection stating that the drinking water needs of Nalgonda needs to be addressed immediately .
 
 Telangana is demanding from KRMB the allotment of at least 4.5 TMC feet of water to meet the drinking water needs of Nalgonda and Hyderabad city . The irony is that even if the two states go ahead and pump water from below 775 ft. at Srisailam and 502 ft. at Nagarjunasagar, the maximum realization would be hardly adequate. AP has al ready made it clear that it needs more than 6.5 TMC feet of water to quench the thirst of Krishna, Guntur and   and the  .
 
 “Hyderabad will find the going tough as the level at Nagarjunasagar has gone below 504 feet. Below that level, pumping would be difficult as it would require higher powered pumps and costs a bomb with no guarantee of continuous working,“ said a senior official of Telangana irrigation department.
 
 Meanwhile, Telangana irrigation officials have decided to lodge a complaint with the KRMB against Andhra Pradesh for demanding more water from the Nagarjunasagar project. Accusing AP of giving misleading information on the Krishna water utilization, Telangana officials want to calculate the water used by AP . It also decided to protest over non-deployment of telemetry equipment in the AP side while completing the task in Telangana side.
 
 “AP is trying to delay the erection of telemetry meters fearing exposure of its wrong figures. It is now raising an objection over the positioning of the meters only to delay the erection and demand more water. Out of the total 47 places where the meters have to be installed, 19 are in Telangana and most of them have been installed,“ pointed out a chief engineer. To avoid any disorder in the meeting, the board is planning to invite irrigation ministers of both the states on May 30.
 
