DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand cabinet on Wednesday approved a new excise policy restricting sales in the nine hill districts of the state to six hours a day, from 12 noon to 6pm, even as it set a new   of Rs 2,310 crore for 2017-18, a   from last year’s collection of Rs 1,905 crore. The new laws would be implemented starting June 1.
 
  The plain districts of Dehradun, Udham Singh Nagar, Nainital and Haridwar would enjoy a 12-hour opening unlike shops in the hill districts of Champavat, Almora, Bageshwar, Pithoragarh, Pauri, Rudraprayag, Tehri, Chamoli and Uttarkashi. The government has also set different revenue targets for the different districts and the district magistrates would be required to sanction shops accordingly. However, they didn’t elaborate the plans on how the state would earn its increased revenue target with the new limitations.
  
  The new policy comes after several anti-alcohol groups led by women of Uttarakhand took to the streets to protest against liquor vends in residential areas following the   ban on sale within 500 metres of national and state highways. However, Uttarakhand, which derives much of its revenue from liquor sales, couldn’t put a blanket ban on alcohol like in Bihar and as demanded by the protesters. State urban development minister  , who is also the spokesperson for the state government, said, “Going by the directives of chief minister TS Rawat, we have brought down the number of operational hours for liquor shops in the hills.”
  
  Time and again Rawat has insisted that the state intends to reduce its dependence on liquor sales for revenue generation and concentrate more on tourism, which is the most profitable industry in Uttarakhan. With the hill districts hit by several protests against booze dens, the government seems to have put more restrictions on hill districts than the plains.
  
  Apart from the restrictions, application charges for license to sell Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) has been raised from Rs 22,000 to Rs 25,000. Norms for license allotment remains unchanged though. A 2% cess would also be charged on the MRP. “1% of the cess money would be used for road safety projects and the remaining for social security,” said Kaushik.
  
  The minister further warned of stringent action against shop owners if they are found charging more than the approved rate. In order to bring complete transparency in liquor sales, the government has made computer-generated receipts and card swipe-machines mandatory. “Our teams will conduct surprise visits and raids to ensure compliance," added Kaushik.
  
  The new policy has also granted permission to Garhwal Mandal Vikas Nigam (GMVN) and   (KMVN) to open bars in their guest houses. GMVN and KMVN would be given a 50% rebate in application charges.
