PUNE: With hill stations like Madikeri, Ooty,   in   reeling under  , tourists from Maharashtra are opting for the northeast and   

 Even hotspots like Goa and Mahabaleshwar have lost much of their appeal this season, with tour companies blaming the rising heat quotient.
 
 Travel to northeast has registered an exponential boost - registering a 40% jump, said sources, with destinations like Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim and Manipur attracting a large number of tourists.
 
  sources attributed the hot weather and increasing water scarcity in south India for the drop in numbers. Met department data showed that northeast was among the coolest spots this summer, with day temperatures in some locations as low as 25 C and minimum below 15 C. 
 
 Sujit Katre, owner of Smile Holidays, has around 65 clients travelling to Sikkim, Darjeeling, Assam and Meghalaya this summer. "Tourists to the northeast have increased by 40% this season. As the weather gets warmer across India, the choice of destinations in India has narrowed down considerably this year. With people having inhibitions about travelling to Kashmir, and Himachal Pradesh being over-explored, the northeast has emerged as the most preferred destination," he said.
 
 Himanshu Agashiwala, chairman, Indian Association of Tour Operators, Maharashtra chapter, said Darjeeling and Sikkim have begun to attract more tourists from Maharashtra this summer. "The entire northeast has witnessed a 20% increase in tourists this season, while Leh Ladakh has registered a 100% rise in tourist flow. Due to the unbearable temperature in south India, Kodaikanal and Ooty, tourists to these hill stations have dropped by 50%," Agashiwala said.
 
 G Krishna, chairman of the Pune chapter of Travel Agents' Association of India, said with temperatures rising in several tourist spots in the country, prospective travellers are on the hunt for cooler climes. "Consequently, we have seen a dip in tourist flow to destinations in the south such as Ooty, Mysore, Coorg and Munnar due to the recent heat wave in parts of south India as well as water scarcity there. Conversely, travel to the northeast has picked up by 40% as the weather is relatively cooler there," said Krishna.
 
 Tour companies said that tourist spots such as Goa and Mahabaleshwar, too, have lost their charm this year due to the spike in heat quotient. 
 
 Vikas Agrawal, director, VT Travels Pvt Ltd, said, "Till last year, we witnessed a preference for places like Kerala, Mahabaleshwar, Goa and coastal Karnataka in summer. With an unprecedented rise in temperature this year, tourists are opting for the northeast and Leh Ladakh."
 
 Agrawal said that Mahabaleshwar, which witnesses its peak season post April 15 every year, currently faces day temperature in the region of 35 degree C, which tends to put travellers off. 
 
 "Both Leh Ladhak have registered a jump of 10% to 15% in tourist inflow," he said. Manoj Bajaj, franchisee holder, Veena World, added, "With Munnar and Ooty losing appeal, travel to the northeast has picked up this season. I have had travellers approach me for packages to the northeast, which was not the case last year.
 
