AURANGABAD: The Mukundwadi railway station will get a makeover by April end. 

 Two days after TOI published a report highlighting the slow progress of the redevelopment works at the station, railways authorities have pledged to complete all pending works and set up a   facility. 
 
 On Friday, the brass of the railway administration from Nanded division of the   (SCR) visited the spot to take stock of the situation.
 
 A K Sinha, divisional railway manager (DRM), Nanded along with a bunch of senior officials inspected the station for nearly 40 minutes and ordered for speedy progress of different works.
 
 Sinha said, “Construction work of reservation facility would be completed before April 30. Certain technical issues had halted the progress of ongoing works, but we will ensure speedy execution going forward.”
 
 Sinha specifically said that a section of local population living around the station were causing menace. “The construction material from ongoing work was getting stolen and it was one of the reasons for the retarded progress of work,” he said.
 
 He also said that locals were the ones responsible for damaging the compound wall of the Mukundwadi station. “The wall was deliberately damaged by locals so that they can easily move around station,” he said.
 
 Sinha said that he has additional plan of carrying out trenching at both the ends of the station’s platform to avoid movement of locals on railway tracks. “A portion of boundary wall and trenching would be constructed simultaneously,” he said.
 
 As regards to demand for Express trains’ halt at Mukundwadi station, railway authorities said such a preposition would be considered at a later stage. 
 
 Omprakash Varma of advocacy group   said that the visit of DRM and other officials can be termed as fruitful only if the pending works get the necessary push.
 
 He also sought the help of   (RPF) and local police to put check on nuisance of locals staying around Mukundwadi station. 
 
 Vikas Ratnaparkhe, a commuter, said, “Mukundwadi station can be developed as key station if railway authorities and public join hands. The option of funding through Corporate Social Responsibility should also be explored to give facelift to the station,” he said.
 
 “Formally inaugurated on January 9, 2000, Mukundwadi railway station witnesses sale of tickets worth around Rs 30,000 per day towards passenger trains alone with figures shooting up to Rs 1 lakh during the peak season days,” say activists strongly advocating development of the station. 
 
