KOCHI: After difficult times on and off the pitch, the call-up to the India 'A' team for the first warm-up one-day against England could come as a much-needed shot in the arm for  . Despite his terrible run in the Ranji Trophy and the subsequent disciplinary issues for which he was pulled up by the  , members in the national selection panel (both senior and junior) have shown faith in the 22-year-old from Kerala and it could be seen as a sign that they believe he is one for the future, especially in the limited-overs.

 Though the warm-up match at   in Mumbai on January 10 won't be counted as international, it is an important platform for Sanju to show that he is on his way to rediscovering his form after recovering from a knee injury. "This opportunity has come at the right time for me and I am raring to go," Sanju told TOI from Bengaluru where he was attending a pre-season camp of his IPL franchise Delhi Daredevils.
 
 When Sanju made his international debut against Zimbabwe in 2015 in a T20I, he was part of a weakened team as most of the seniors were resting. However, he would be taking the field against England alongside some big names, none less than his idol  , who will be captaining the side. "I have played quite a lot of matches against him in the IPL but this will be the first time I will be playing in Dhoni bhai's team. It's really exciting and I am looking forward to it," said Sanju.
 
 If his performance in the Ranji Trophy alone was taken into account, Sanju may not have merited a place in the side. He scored only 334 runs from seven matches while other wicketkeeper-batsmen like Rishabh Pant and   made a name for themselves with their exploits. But the reputation Sanju had carved out as an impact player in shorter formats seems to be still intact as his inclusion establishes.
 
 With the U-19 and India 'A' teams serving as an effective feeder for the national team ever since Rahul Dravid took over the reins of these teams, it was no surprise that Sanju got a look-in. Sanju, a regular with the India 'A' team played a key role in the Indian side winning the quadrangular series in Australia before the start of the Ranji season. "He came in at the late middle order and played a couple of crucial innings. His reading of match situations is good and he has shown his potential over the years. It's good that the selectors have shown faith in him," said  , who is part of India 'A' coaching staff.
 
 Another former player who has been closely following the youngster is former Indian wicketkeeper and former selector Kiran More. "He's an outstanding player. He has always been in the reckoning. Everyone goes through bad times. That's part of a sportsman's life. But he has the talent and the character to come back and perform," said More who recently spent time with Sanju at the NCA.
 
 The next few months could be crucial for the Kerala lad. He will be integral to Kerala's challenge in the domestic T20 and one-day tournaments. Following that, there is the little matter of the IPL and Sanju knows he has to keep performing. "I don't like to dwell on the past. Whatever happened has happened and right now I am in a good frame of mind and I would try to do well in every match that I play," he said.
 
