ALLAHABAD: With the polling dates fast approaching, the candidates are leaving no stones unturned to achieve success. The ongoing   has evolved as a place where the aspirants seek blessings of the Almighty by performing yagna at the Sangam. Saints are performing al yagna for the political clients from UP and various other states going to polls. Even Muslim candidates could be seen there.

 Many leaders arrive at the the camp of the guru (the head priest or saint) for perfroming ‘purna aahuti’ (religious sacrifice) for success in the elections. 
 
 One such yagna is being performed at the camp of Dev Tirth Adhoskhanand Saraswati on Triveni Road. The saint is performing Peetambara and Bagla Mukhi Yagna. 
 
 A Muslim candidate from west UP is also trying to please god. There are political leaders from from Haridwar, Roorki, Manglore assembly constituencies. 
 
 A yagna is being performed by Jyotishacharaya Vinod Ojha. The seer is performing  , along with 11 of his subordinates for his political disciples from Ranikhet, Rudra Prayag and Khanpur from Uttrakhand. Netas from Saharanpur, Dhampur, Chandpur, Lucknow, Patti Bilaspur, Ludiana, Amritsar and Mansa and Goa are also lining up at Sangam. 
 
 Rameshwar Maharaj of Khak Chowk is performing Rajrajeshwari Yagna which would include 1.25 crores ‘ahuti’ (sacrifice) for the political leaders who has approached him for success in the election. 
 
 Yogi Harsh is performing yagna for his disciples contesting Pratapgarh, Sultanpur and other places in his camp located at Kali road. 
 
 After performing the ceremony, the prasad would be sent to the devotees if they are unable to arrive for the final ‘ahuti’. 
 
 The saints also guide the political disciples about the colour of their clothes, the mantra which they have to recite in spare time and the time slot for campaigning. 
 
 These dharm gurus have no inclination for any specific political party. Their jajman (disciples) are from various states and different political parties.
 
 “Jajmann ask us to perform yagna for their success in various fields, including assembly elections. And there is nothing wrong in it,” Satua Baba of Khak Chowk said. 
 
 
