BHOPAL: The one-day special session of   was adjourned sine die on Wednesday, after passing a resolution to declare river   as a living entity by majority of voice vote.

 The resolution introduced by environment minister Antar Singh Arya stated that river Narmada is the lifeline of Madhya Pradesh and the government is compelled to protect the legal rights of the river as a living entity.
 
 Speaking during the debate, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said that the government has moved the proposal to give living entity status to river Narmada to control pollution, illegal mining on the river banks and to save the river from getting depleted.
 
 “Giving living entity would not only conserve the river but also save the environment. We can lodge a complaint in the name of river Narmada against all illegalities. As Narmada is the biggest river in the state, we have initiated the conservation programme from Amarkantak. After the success of this campaign we will also initiate conservation of Kshipra, Gambhir, Ken, Betwa and Kali Sindh rivers with public participation”, said Chouhan.
 
 “After this resolution we will move ahead to table a bill on this issue and would ensure that any attempt to harm the river or create pollution would be dealt with strictly through legal actions”, warned Chouhan.
 
 Taking a jibe at the Opposition remarks on politicising the Narmada Sewa Yatra by exploiting religious sentiments, Chouhan said that the campaign has received acclamation from across the world and the results could be seen in the coming years. It would be the biggest river and environment conservation campaign in the world, claimed the chief minister.
 
 Chouhan called upon the Opposition members to actively participate in the save river programme and also the massive plantation drive on July 2, where crores of saplings will be planted on the banks of the river Narmada.
 
 Earlier, raising objections over the  , Congress leaders alleged that the chief minister not only politicised the issue but also failed to check illegal mining and transportation of sand from the river bank.
 
 Leader of Opposition Ajay Singh demanded that the government should seize legal and illegal mining activities along the river bank with immediate effect. This would help save the river. Congress MLAs Govind Singh and Ramnivas Rawat said that government should check extravagances in the name of Narmada Yatra.
 
 “Crores have been spent on inviting film stars and guests, on gala feasts and worldwide publicity of the Narmada campaign. This fund could be utilised in hospitals, farm relief, education and providing water in rural areas”, said Congress MLA Govind Singh.
 
 Congress MLAs Kamleshwar Patel, Mukesh Nayak and Ramnivas Rawat asked the government to declare the details of the funds utilised in the Narmada Sewa Yatra.
 
