GHAZIABAD: They bought wafers and fruit juice and offered them to a five-year-old child if she came to a nearby building. When she followed them there, they took her up the stairs to the first floor, raped the child and then throttled her till her breathing stopped. 

 That was March 31. And as a massive manhunt began for a 19-year-old mason who was thought to be the prime suspect, Ramashish Yadav stayed put. He even visited the child’s house to ask her parents about the probe. Police, politicians and the DM visited the locality to assure the girl’s family of justice but Yadav did not flee. He just hid in plain sight, keeping track of the investigation, absorbing every update, to plan his next move accordingly.
 
 But something happened he hadn’t accounted for. A witness surfaced and connected him to the crime scene. Police moved in swiftly. On Tuesday, the investigation into the March 31 rape and murder at Indirapuram’s Kanawani saw its first major breakthrough with the arrest of Yadav, a 24-year-old daily wage labourer, from nearby Shakti Khand. 
 
 Police are now hoping he will lead them to Afroz (19), who fled after the crime.
 
 Ghaziabad   Deepak Kumar said, “During investigations, we got to know that there were, in fact, two persons involved in the crime. We received a tip-off that Ramashish, a friend of Afroz, would be in Shakti Khand on Tuesday morn-ing. He was arrested near Sarvottam Apartments. He has confessed.”
 
 The girl’s father said Afroz and Yadav were close friends. “They were often seen smoking cannabis together. Afroz was my tenant and had vacated my house two days before the crime. The duo came to my house on March 31 and asked for a glass of water, which was given by my daughter,” he said.
 
 Then, using the wafers and juice they had bought, the two lured the child to the under-construction building barely 300 metres away. “After offering the girl the eatables, Ramashish raped her while Afroz held her hands. The latter gagged her when she started crying. Ramashish, in turn, held the girl while Afroz raped her. They strangled her after she fainted, and hid her body beneath bricks,” SSP Kumar added.
 
 Yadav’s involvement in the crime was suspected after a local resident told police that he had seen Afroz and Yadav together on the day of the crime. “We have conclusive proof of Ramashish’s involvement in the crime. Some clothes with blood stains were recovered from the accused, and have been sent for forensic tests,” the SSP said.
 
 Yadav has been booked under sections 376 (rape), 376D (gang rape), 363 (kidnapping) and 302 (murder) of the IPC and sections of the POCSO Act.
 
 Three police teams have been sent to   to nab Afroz who, like Yadav, is from there. “We have conducted raids in Khagaria and Patna districts to nab him, but he has not been caught yet. We hope to arrest him soon,” Kumar said.
 
