CHENNAI: On Maha Shivaratri, Prime Minister   unveiled the 112ft tall bust of Adiyogi. In yogic culture, Shiva is known as Adiyogi, the first yogi, the originator of yoga. Consecrated by  , founder,  , and   awardee, the bust is a tribute to the first yogi's unparalleled contribution to humanity. A few days after the event, seated on an open terrace with the picturesque Velliangiri hills in the background, Sadhguru speaks to TOI about the relevance of Adiyogi, and shares his views on issues ranging from   to the current political situation in  .

 
 
 
 Today, as a generation, you have come to a place where unless something is logically correct and scientifically verifiable, you can't digest it. Your children, the next generation, will not accept anything which is not logically correct. Even if God comes and says something, if it is not logically correct, they'll reject it. Human intellect is coming to a place where authority cannot be the truth anymore; truth will be the only authority.
 
 In every other aspect of life we use science and technology. It is time we address the inner well-being in a scientific manner too. Once you realise this, Adiyogi becomes super significant because he addressed human mechanism in as scientific manner as it can be addressed.
 
 Nobody has looked at human mechanism with the depth with which he did - in 112 ways, which also stands for the major junction points of energy called chakras in the body. There are 114 chakras, two of them outside the body. Adiyogi is the source of yoga. Though his antiquity goes back to more than 15,000 years, he belongs to the future. Never before was humanity as prepared as it is today, to be willing to look at the most intimate dimensions of our life in a scientific manner. So now Adiyogi becomes significant.
 
 
 
 
 Adiyogi is needed in everybody's mind and heart. How many actual physical things you create is not important. People are demanding that four should come up. But I am not a real estate person. The only real estate I work on is the human mind and human heart. At one time I said there will be four in the four corners of the country, but that was said more as rhetoric. But today, we are in a world where even if it is in one place, the entire world can know it.
 
 
 
 
 It is not about the bigness, it is about the dimension, the geometry. There are many aspects of geometry to the Dhyanalinga space. In a way, fundamentally, yoga means geometry because we are talking of union. Yoga, at one level, is to align your individual geometry to the larger cosmic geometry, in such a way that if you sit here, you feel you are the cosmos.
 
 
 
 
 Politics is not for me to determine, it is for people. When people have the opportunity to vote, they must vote responsibly. This time around, with the death of a leader, things have changed in a certain way but probably people feel it is better to have a government than not have a government. So you can only choose from what you have and they have made their choice.
 
 
 
 The problem with India is that for every solution you have a problem. Everybody was complaining, nothing is being done about the black money, everybody is corrupt. Somebody tries to do something - how effective (it was), we will know over a period of time. I feel it takes a certain amount of time to make a judgment on what has been the impact of demonetisation. But when somebody takes such a step, with good intent, I think the nation should support and make it work.
 
 
 
 Yoga is a system which helps take charge of your health by doing some simple things. Eating right, living right, sitting right, standing right, breathing right, so that if not mukti, at least you get health, mukti from rog (disease). So now the Prime Minister, or any leader for that matter, takes an interest in this and does yoga with the people and says please do this, you can get healthy because we as a government can never provide this for you. You must take charge and do the right things, so that you are healthy, is that a political thing? And why does secularism come into health and well-being of a human being?
 
 
 
 These are all people whose stomachs are full. When more than 50% of the population has not even eaten properly, you are talking about nuances of democracy. It is a crime. After everybody has eaten well, then we talk of nuances. What is a nation? It is just an idea and an idea has to be enforced with a certain level of emotion or involvement, otherwise a human being will not function. National anthem and flag, are these for eternity? No, this is for the making of a nation. In the early part of making of a nation, these things are crucial. If people don't feel they belong to this nation, how do you build a nation? If you don't care for nationhood, the first thing you must do is tell our armed forces, 'Please you idiots, don't go and die on the border? Why are you hanging around there in extreme conditions, when bullets are flying at you, why are you wasting your lives? Because we don't care'. Somebody is dying for you, and you are talking this rubbish about how nationhood is not needed.
 
