NEW DELHI: Manohar Parrikar’s abrupt departure from the defence ministry to shore up his party’s fortunes in Goa has left several critical tasks unfinished, including military reforms that are midway and a battle with the bureaucracy over a Make in India plan aimed at creating the country’s Boeings and Lockheed Martins.
 
  Finance minister   was assigned additional charge of the defence portfolio following Parrikar’s resignation from the cabinet, the government said on Monday.
  
  President   has accepted Parrikar's resignation from the council of ministers with immediate effect, a communique from the Rashtrapathi Bhavan said. The President has also directed that Jaitely shall be assigned the charge of the defence ministry in addition to his existing portfolios, it said.
  
  Parrikar is expected to wrap up his affairs at South Block this week before heading off to Goa as chief minister but his successor will have an uphill task to get things back on track with regard to modernisation, promoting the private sector and reforms such as rightsizing the armed forces.
  
  Sources said defence secretary G Mohan Kumar could get a sixmonth extension beyond June to smoothen the transition to a new minister. At the heart of the issue is the way in which Parrikar operated as   – taking the bureaucracy head on and assuming personal responsibility for several decisions.
  
  The new blacklisting policy for example gives the defence minister sweeping powers and the responsibility that comes with it for giving leniencies to companies that have been banned for corruption charges.
  
  With Parrikar gone, such decisions may not be taken comfortably by a successor knowing the implications of any missteps. Similarly, Parrikar had been in a fight for the past 18 months with the entire bureaucratic setup in the ministry over the strategic partnership model – a plan to select key private sector companies for major defence manufacturing contracts.
  
  The bureaucratic view has been that the model being considered by Parrikar would be against all competitive norms and it would be impossible for a government to ‘guarantee’ orders to the selected company for 25 years.
  
  This tussle over the strategic partnership model has been the reason for the stagnation of the Make in India plans for the defence sector. All major projects that would have come under this – naval utility helicopters, conventional submarines, fighter aircraft, ammunition – have not moved ahead in the past two years as the ministry could not finalise the model.
  
  The fate of over half-a-dozen committees that Parrikar set up will also hang in the balance. A specially appointed committee of retired officers and bureaucrats was Parrikar’s answer to several tricky issues, including rightsizing of the army, setting up of a new defence procurement agency and updating the promotion policy of the armed forces. While most of these panels have submitted their reports, his departure has cast doubt about the prospect of their implementation. 
