Nagpur: In an endeavour to create awareness about the growing stream of Arts, Ramoji Krian Universe (RKU), a Creative Careers School, under Hyderabad based Ramoji Group, held a   guidance   at Chitnavis Centre on Thursday.

 The seminar was addressed by three notable personalities of the industry, actor-director Vivek Vaswani, renowned media academician UK Chowdhary and city based film director Shyam Dharmadhikari who was also the chief guest of the event.
 
 City based young achievers were felicitated with the ‘Young Voyager Nagpur 2017 Award’ for successfully achieving great heights in their endeavours at a young age. The awardees were Dipti Gurjar, an advertising entrepreneur, Abhishek Acharya from the field of animation & VFX, Sugandha Deshpande from the field of music and Akshay Rathi from the field of entertainment business.
 
 Chowdhary, who has been the Dean of Symbiosis Pune, briefed the participants about the various opportunities that come along in the   stream. He also spoke on making a career in writing, journalism, sound engineering and other performing arts. He also talked about the various sub categories of different subjects and the ability to discern an individual’s calling for a career.
 
 Summing up his address, Chowdhury said, “The physical, intellectual and aesthetic development of an individual simultaneously is very important. All the streams are equally rewarding in their own areas of application, no stream should be looked down on. We must focus on developing creativity and dynamic logic rather than memory and static logic. It’s a time for innovation, not repetition.”
 
 Vaswani commenced his address by reminiscing the days when Shah Rukh Khan stayed at his home in Mumbai. He recalled how he put a lot of thought into strategically launching Khan, so that he could not only gain popularity but also gain profit out of his profession.
 
 “This is the peculiarity of RKU (which is in the process of becoming a university), it teaches you and mentors you to be able to translate your skills, knowledge and talent into a successful profession. The stream of arts and aesthetics has big money, we must not leave behind our ethics to make money,” Vaswani said.
 
 The event was followed by a question-answer round between the speakers and the participants, wherein students and parents among the participants got their doubts clarified about success, job security and other factors that are usually matters of concern for aspirants embarking on unconventional careers.
 
 (Reporting by Mahima Meshramkar)
 
 
