ABU DHABI:   couldn't have started for a better debut in a   event as their captain   was crowned the   champion by taking the Red Jersey and topping the general classification.   of Team Orica Scott went past the finish line in a bunch sprint winning the Stage 4 held at the   edging past Stage 1 winner  .

 Ilnur Zakarin of Team Katusha Alpecin was second and Tom Dumoulin of Team Sunweb was third in the overall standings, while Andre Greipel of Team Lotto Soudal finished third. Cavendish, the brand ambassador of the tournament, also took the Green Jersey with overall points. Quick Step Floors' Julian Alaphilippe took the final intermediate sprints and landed the White Jersey.
 
 It was a day of atonement for Ewan on the rain-slicked roads of the Al Marina Circuit. The Australian had suffered a crash in the first stage and missed out winning the second stage when a premature celebration inches from the finish line saw him getting pipped by Marcel Kittel. This time around though, Even, after putting in a late acceleration, approached the finish line and waited to cross it before raising his hands in the air.
 
 "I guess I started this race on a real low with that crash and then I finished on an absolute high. After stage 2 I'm really happy to repay my team with a win," Ewan said after the win. "They did a great job, we started working early and we knew which the important corners on this course were. They controlled the race from 15km out and no one really came past us from that moment on. If you really want to be on top you need to beat Kittel, Cavendish and Greipel and for me beating them all here. I'm over the moon with that."
 
 Despite the rainy 143-km stage, the peloton of 153 cyclists did not get any respite and rode at an average race speed of 46.5 km/h. Once the rain got harder, the agrression grew and the riders upped their speed to over 60 km/h.
 
 As soon as the flag went down, the likes of Dylan Teuns (BMC), Patrick Konrad (Bora-Hansgrohe), Kirill Sveshnikov (Gazprom-Rusvelo), Rafael Valls (Lotto Soudal) broke away from the main group but none could maintain the lead. From there it was just a matter of time before the pace was picked by Ewan and giving him company were Cavendish and Greipel.
 
 "When we came to the slow part, after the last intermediate sprint, I said to the guys we should take it up. On a circuit like this, if you leave it later, you can lose the team and only use half of them. I think I sprinted past the line today just to make sure I didn't make the mistake of celebrating early. What happened the other day and the mistake I made did go through my mind," Ewan said.
 
 "My next races will be Tirreno-Adriatico, Milan-Sanremo, Gent-Wevelgem; then I'll start building for Giro, which is my next big goal. This win gives me confidence for Milan-Sanremo. The races I've done so far have been nothing like Milan-Sanremo but I'm training for long races to get ready. This year at Sanremo is a learning experience but if I can make it to the finale of course I'll go for the win."
 
 But the man of the occasion remained Costa, who had aced the third and the most decisive GC Stage the day before and in a way secured the title, was 26 laps of 5.5km each from wrapping things up. And even though he too got troubled by the rain, there didn't emerge any problems in the end. 
 
 "It's true that in the rain the circuit was tough and complicated. It was a good thing that the team did such great work and in the end we won without too many problems," Costa said. "The form is good and I hope I don't have any problems between now and Tirreno Adriatico. I'm sure that, having won here, I go to Tirreno with even more focus. That said, I had raced more than some of the guys here. Tirreno will also be very different as there is a time trial and a team time trial.
 
 "The team's focus was to protect me and they did that really well. We were actually able to arrive pretty easily in the end and so I was not very worried. I was more worried about the rain but everything arrived all right in the end."
 
 Costa's happiness was not just echoed by his team-mates but also the owner Mr. Matar Al Dhaheri, who, as the Abu Dhabi winner, puts it, was delighted by the example it has set for UAE's young side for the coming events. 
 
 "He didn't speak too much but he was really, really happy and I think he was focused on that my victory is really good for the family," Costa said. "One of the goals of the team is to raise awareness of cycling here and for kids. We really are pushing the morale of the kids; the victory is good for the health of the country so it's more important than just from a sporting perspective."
 
 
