Visakhapatnam: At the CII-sponsored Partnership Summit, what seemed to really rejuvenate the Indian and foreign delegates and participants is a steaming cup of Araku coffee. In fact, the hot cuppa added to the flavour of deliberations amidst the various plenary sessions on sustained growth and economic development and signing of MoUs.

 The coffee and handicrafts stalls set up by Girijan Cooperative Corporation (GCC) and DWCRA, respectively, at the Partnership Summit venue turned out to be quite a hit among the participants including the foreign dignitaries.
 
 Sophie Barbier, an Australian settled in Singapore, has come as a representative of the Global Education and Leadership Foundation. While sipping Araku coffee, she remarked, “I prefer strong coffee to tea and the taste of this coffee particularly is special and different.”
 
 Aleira Susane, a professor from Iowa State University, USA, was also bowled over by Araku Coffee. “I just landed some time ago in beautiful Vizag and got a taste of this delicious coffee at this summit venue. It’s very nice indeed,” she said.
 
 Speaking about the response to Araku coffee, A Ravi Prakash, vice-chairman and MD of GCC, averred, “Demand for coffee and other GCC products is overwhelming. Whenever any international summit takes place in AP or even in Delhi, we supply Araku coffee to the delegates and VIPs and it’s appreciated everywhere. Through e-auction our coffee is also exported to various European countries. Last year at the CII summit, we sold coffee and other GCC herbal products worth Rs 5 lakh in just two days. This year too, we expect the figure to surpass Rs 5 lakh.”
 
 The MD informed that around a lakh tribal population from various mandals of Vizag agency is currently engaged in the coffee cultivation industry. “The coffee grown by the tribal people is completely organic and the government directly purchases from them without involving any middlemen, so the profit from coffee sales goes to the poor tribal farmers. Earlier, these farmers were engaged in ‘podu’ or shifting cultivation, which was detrimental or unproductive to the soil. But now, they have shifted to growing coffee, which is environment-friendly. The farmers are also earning double the amount by growing coffee than they were earning through shifting cultivation. This way, both the environment and their interests are safeguarded,” added Ravi Prakash.
 
 The famous Araku coffee is grown in Agency mandals including Paderu, Araku, Anantagiri, Chintapalli, GV Veedhi and G Madgula.
 
 Apart from the coffee at GCC, the DWCRA stall displaying handicrafts of AP was favoured by the participants of CII. “Foreign delegates like to take back Etikoppaka and Kondapalli toys as souvenirs while Indian dignitaries usually prefer the uppada pattu sarees, a specialty of Andhra Pradesh,” pointed out K Sanjay, district project manager, District Rural Development Agency (DRDA) and added that they are looking forward to around Rs 2 lakh worth business in just two days from the summit venue. 
 
 
