JAIPUR:   of  , which was moving at snail’s pace due to   is expected to gain momentum as the   ( NCRPB) has given consent to sanction loan for the project.

 The Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) had recently sought a loan of Rs 1,098 crore, which is 70% cost of the project from the NCRPB for revival of Dravyavati river. A senior JDA official said, “The final decision for the disbursement of loan will be decided in the meeting scheduled on January 27. Consent has been given after the state government agreed to give guarantee for the loan.”
 
 Out of the total cost of the project, the JDA so far has spent nearly Rs 125 crore. The state government had recently appointed Tata Projects-led consortium to complete the Dravyavati River Rejuvenation in 30 months. “It is proposed that NCRPB will provide loan at the interest rate of 7.5% to JDA. The board will give 15% subsidy if loan is repaid on time,” added the official.
 
 The awarded firm has started work to rejuvenate the 47 km long river which is located between Jaisalya village at the foothills of Nahargarh Fort and River Dhund. Over the years polluted water from nearby areas, garbage and debris caused comprehensive damage to the condition of this river.
 
 The civic bodies have also planned to initiate drive to remove encroachments after rehabilitating the affected house owners. An official told TOI that under the project JDA has proposed to construct around 11 sewerage treatment plants (STPs) with a capacity of 180 mld. Out of 11, the area of six STPs has been encroached upon.
 
 Moreover, JDA has proposed to construct check dams. The width of these check dams will be between 12 metres and 102 metres, depending on space availability. “Directions were given to start a drive against encroachment after preparing an action plan for rehabilitation so that river front can be provided to the company to initiate work,” said a JDA official.
 
 The firm would also plant nearly 16,000 trees and 65,000 square meters green area will be developed under this project .The relevant environment clearance for the project was also recently obtained.
 
 
