KOLKATA: While   turned out to be a nightmare for women in an  , Kolkata also witnessed at least one similar case the same night, when a young actor was allegedly   and pushed around. However unlike their counterparts in Bangalore who did little to help the victims, the   wasted no time in registering a case.
 
 In fact, though the incident took place in an area under others' jurisdiction, cops at Jadavpur police station did not turn the woman away but registered her case immediately , zeroed in on the accused with the help of CCTV images and arrested five of the accused late on Monday .
 
 The vehicle used to commit the crime--an Innova--has also been seized. The incident took place around 2am in January 1 when the 24-year-old actor, along with her frie nds, parked their car near a paan shop on Prince Anwar Shah Road. Presently, five men in the grey Innova drove up to them, demanding to park their vehicle at the same spot. An altercation broke out and as the woman stepped in to protest, she was allegedly molested and her friend beaten up, punched and thrown to the ground, said Badana Varun Chandra Sekhar, DC (south suburban).
 
 “I live in Baranagar. On December 31, after completing a shoot at Tollygunge, I met some friends in the evening. Later that night, we went to Dha ka Kalibari to buy some cigarettes when these five men stepped out of their SUV and started taunting us. When one of my friends protested, he was assaulted. When I tried to protest, they first assaulted me and then molested me. We raised an alarm and some bikers came to our rescue. The accused fled after abusing us,“ said the victim, adding she managed to note down the vehicle's number and contacted the police the next morning.
 
 What transpired next has two versions: One, the woman dialled 100 the next morning.But instead of the Lake police--under whose jurisdiction the incident took place--responding to the call, the Jadavpur police swung into action.But the other version from the cops is that the woman approached the Jadavpur police directly .“As the woman came to us directly , we did not go into jurisdiction details. We registered a case and began a probe,“ said DC Sekhar.
 
 The police identified the vehicle of the accused from CCTV images. “We activated our sources across Lake and Charu Market areas and picked up the five, Sk Surajuddin (26), Sk Sahiluddin (20), Ananda Mondal (21),Goutam Naskar (32) and Biswajit Das' (30), from different places last night. They live in Lake and Charu Market areas. They have been remanded in judicial custody till January 24,“ the police said.
 
