KOZHIKODE: The official process for the execution of the   programme in the three districts of   included in the first phase project will commence soon. Three districts of Kasaragod, Kannur and Malappuram will get the benefit of the project, the execution of which was commenced as a pilot project at Peoorkada district model hospital, Thiruvananthapuram last month. The other districts found in the first phase of project include Iddukki, Alappuzha and Ernakulam.

 The project aims at enhancing the quality of services and efficiency of operations in the government health centres. It will link the entire government health institutions ranging from primary health centres to medical colleges through a wide area network which will enable the health officials to keep a watch on the day-today activities of the health centres.
 
 Under the scheme, all the health records of patients approaching for treatment at the government hospitals will be collected and stored in electronic form. These health data will be digitalised and entered in the state data centre through Kerala state wide area network. The data will be stored on the basis of either   or voter Identify cards furnishing by the patient at the time of data collection. At present, there exists no mechanism in the government health sector to store information of patiens approaching for the treatment.
 
 P P Pramod Kumar, E-health nodal officer of Kozhikode district, said the effective execution of the project will result in major change in the working condition of the government hospitals. "Under the scheme, every person will have a health card and the doctors at the government hospitals can easily track the past medical history. The facility will help the doctors greatly even if a patient arrives at the government hospital under unconscious condition, the doctors can prescribe treatment just tracking the medical records of the patient online by clicking the unique identity number of the admitted patient on the health card,’’ he said. "The   will be implemented in Kozhikode district in the second phase of the project,’’ he said.
 
 Meanwhile, V Vinod Raj, technical manager, e-health project, said the execution of the project in the districts included in the first phase of the project will be commence soon. "The execution of the scheme will enhance the existing quality and efficiency of operations of government health service in the state. it will help the higher officials to access real time data on communicable and non-communicable diseases from both outpatient and inpatient wards and even update on clinical laboratories ,’’ he said.
 
