KOLKATA: Gaps between  . Blocked. Illegal auto stands in the bus bays. Removed. Small vehicles entering bus bays. Booked. Buses dropping passengers in the middle of the road. Fined.

 It was a picture in contrast on   on Tuesday, a day after TOI reported the problem points that possibly resulted in multiple accidents over the last few days, with cops swinging into action and making concerted attempts in removing the clutters.
 
 Since morning, policemen were spotted bringing in truckloads of guardrails from   in the gaps between the main carriageway and the bus bay, through which buses sneaked in and out of the bay to pose a threat to motorists till the other day. At least 11 such gaps were blocked with iron rails by the evening. “Traffic cones were replaced with guardrails at several places to ensure buses could not knock them off at ease,” said a senior traffic officer manning the operation.
 
 As the day progressed, more policemen – from constables and traffic volunteers to senior officers – were seen on the road, keeping a close eye on violations. At  , officers began a crackdown on cars and auto rickshaws that were found entering the bay dedicated only for buses. “The bays are meant only for buses but we found autos and cars taking it to avoid being stuck in the traffic. So we began a crackdown and soon things were in order,” said an officer. Buses that tried to ignore the bay and were plying through the carriageway were also fined and were forced to ply along the bay.
 
 At  , the place beside the underpass gate, where dozens of autos were parked turning it into a a stand, were also penalized by the police and soon the area was cleaned up. “There is no registered stand for the autos in this place. So we removed them to free the carriageway,” said the officer.
 
 Officers were also posted on the road to ensure buses don’t pick and drop passengers from the middle of the road and come to the edge of the footpath. On Monday, TOI had reported how buses were picking and dropping passengers in the middle of the road and passengers had to dodge incoming traffic to reach the footpath or board the bus.
 
 Another senior officer of the traffic department said they had initiated a communication with the PWD to ensure that the new underpass that is coming up at Teghoria in the next few months be erected on the extreme end of the road and not in the middle as they stand now. “During the construction of the existing underpasses, expansion plans of VIP Road were already finalized. I don’t know if it was shoddy planning on their part or was a deliberate effort to make the underpass gate in the middle of the road. However, now we are writing to the agency to ensure that new underpasses are built on the edge of the road,” said the officer.
 
 
