KOLKATA:   is   for her husband, Manas Mullick, since the second week of March. The complaint she had filed against a doctor is gathering dust. She has submitted all   to cops who, she claims, have not responded yet.

 Mullick is not alone, though. There are 18 such   cases lodged in the city now — all of which have been lodged post-February. Except a mere couple of them, the probe has been limited to cops collecting documents from officials concerned. As the wait becomes longer, both the police and the health department continue pointing fingers at each other for the inordinate delay.
 
 “Police officers probing the medical negligence cases are in a fix. Each week sees new complaints, but we lack the necessary expertise. The law states that we have to seek opinion from a medical board. What can we do if we this board is not formed,” wondered an IPS officer. Top police sources claim most cases are confined to about five police stations — Purba Jadavpur, Phoolbagan, Ultadanga and Beniapukur. “It could have been better if we could have had one single committee to deal with such cases as envisaged in the new Act,” felt a source. 
 
 The health department claims at most times, the police work is sloppy. 
 
 “Tell me one important case where there has been a delay on our part. The cops cannot drag their feet in such cases,” said a health department official. 
 
 Now, the Lalbazar brass has decided to follow up each case with the health department on a weekly basis. “We have written to the health department and followed up with reminders. But several cases which have not grabbed much media attention are pending with them. Without the medical committee set by up the state health department recommending anything, we are forced to just sit on the complaints,” claimed an officer. 
 
 Sources said only a handful cases — the one involving the death of Sanjoy Roy at SSKM after he was treated at Apollo Hospital and Sunil Kumar Pandey at Medica Superspecialty Hospital — have seen the health department appoint the mandatory committee.
 
 Even on Thursday, the cops had to file two more cases. Hours after an FIR alleging negligence was registered against hospital authorities and two doctors of a Mullick Bazar-based hospital, another was registered at the Purba Jadavpur police station against another EM Bypass hospital doctor. This particular case was transferred to the Purba Jadavpur police after being initially registered at the Garfa police station.
 
 In the present case, originally recorded at Garfa police station on March 26, the complaint of Tapan Roy Chowdhury of Santoshpur alleged that his daughter Urvashi Kleinman was admitted to the EM Bypass hospital intermittently between January 30 till April 14 and was being treated by the accused doctor. 
 
 According to the complainant, it was the physician’s negligence which caused Urvashi’s death. A case under IPC 304A (death due to negligence) has been started.
 
 
