NEW DELHI: A 24-year-old woman, Premlata, and her nephew’s 22-year-old wife, Sonia, were found murdered with their throats slit at north Delhi’s Timarpur on Monday.   had a surgery a week ago and had asked her nephew Mohit and Sonia to come over to help her with the daily chores as her family had gone to Kanpur. 

 Premlata’s neighbours told police that the couple entered the house at 9am, but no one saw Mohit leaving. Police said that the house belonged to Premlata’s father  , who is a property dealer. Officers said that at 11am, one of Kumar’s tenants —who lived on the third floor of the same building — informed police about the incident. 
 
 A team rushed to the spot and found the women lying in pools of blood. Kumar had gone to Kanpur, along with his son, for a family function two days ago. During this period Premlata asked Mohit and Sonia to come over. The couple had come to Delhi from Agra eight days ago. At 10.50am on Monday, Kumar called up the tenant saying that he had been calling Premlata for some time but she was not responding. Asking her to check on his daughter, he later called few more people from the locality, asking them to do the same.
 
 The tenant reached the house first and found it bolted from outside. She called out for Premlata several times, but got no response. She then opened the door and found Premlata and Sonia lying dead inside. 
 
 Police said that both women had been attacked with a ‘screw driver’ like object and stabbed several times in their faces and throats. Premlata’s body was found in the washroom, while Sonia’s body was spotted in the lobby. Their phones were found lying next to their bodies, crushed. 
 
 “We are inspecting the matter and would scan the phones as we suspect there must be some clues regarding the murder in them. Mohit, who is absconding, is the prime suspect and we have formed several teams to arrest him,” said  , deputy commissioner of police (north). 
 
 Police suspect that Mohit could have had a fight with his wife and killed her and when Premlata tried to intervene he killed her too. All angles were being probed, police said. Police said that family members of both women had been informed and the bodies would be handed over to them after postmortem. 
 
