PUNE: Slain   OP's father handed over a memorandum to police commissioner   on Thursday apprehending involvement of more than one person in his daughter's murder, going by the nature of injury marks found on her body.

 “We gave a memorandum to the police chief as we feel there was more than one suspect in Rasila's murder. She was brutally beaten up and one man cannot commit such act,“ her father, Raju, told reporters soon after meeting Shukla. He was accompanied by Rasila's brother and uncle.The family has also sought appointment of noted lawyer Ujjwal Nikam as a special public prosecutor in the murder trial.
 
 Shukla later told TOI, “I have apprised them about the progress made in the case so far and they seemed happy with the same.“
 
 Rasila was found murdered at her workplace on the ninth floor of a building on Infosys campus in Hinjewadi IT park on January 29. The Hinjewadi police have arrested   (27), a security guard of the company, in the case.
 
 Saikia, who hails from Lakhimpur in Assam, is currently lodged in judicial custody . His arrest was based on company's   footage that showed him entering and exiting the offshore dedicated centre (ODC), where Rasila was working alone, multiple times.
 
 Police have also recovered Saikia's blood-soaked shoes, which he allegedly used for smas hing the victim's face, and ha ve also collected other eviden ce including her ID-cum-ac cess card used by Saikia for en tering and exiting the workplace.
 
 Raju said, “We wanted to understand the progress made by police in the investigation while seeking the police chief 's permission to let the family members examine the CCTV footage.“
 
 The family members left for the Hinjewadi police station after Shukla told them that they can examine the CCTV footage there.
 
 Referring to their discussion with the police chief, Raju said, “We are content with the police investigations so far and want to ensure that the suspect gets a stern punishment, no less than a death sentence.“
 
 Meanwhile, Shukla said Rasila's father also raised concerns over the state of working women in software companies.
 
 “He suggested that companies must have complaints panel looking after the problems of women employees. Secondly, teh family has demanded appointment of Nikam as public prosecutor. I have assured them that the matter will be taken up with the state government,“ she said.
 
