CHANDIGARH: When Congress vice-president   named   the party’s chief ministerial candidate for Punjab, it marked the normalisation of a relationship which had turned into a roller-coaster and nearly gone off the rails.

 For Congress watchers, Amarinder’s official projection as CM candidate is a far cry from last year when the Patiala royal nearly left the party, chafing at the leadership’s refusal to declare him the mascot.
 
 Amarinder did not take kindly to the promotion of his baiter Partap Singh Bajwa as state unit chief but kept quiet after his failure to catapult Congress to victory in the 2012 assembly polls despite being its CM face.
 
 However, the swagger was back in 2014 when he heeded the leadership’s request to contest the Lok Sabha polls from Amritsar and he roundly defeated BJP biggie  .
 
 That was when he staked claim to the lost throne, and went all the way to threaten a revolt. Rahul was the obstacle to his ambition.
 
 As the unrest peaked and he appeared set to launch his own outfit, Amarinder was persuaded to stay back by promising him the organisational reins.
 
 Within months, the compromise was injected with a dose of sweetener when Congress designed an advanced assembly campaign around his name and face.
 
 While there was no doubt that he would head the government in case of a Congress victory, the official declaration marks a moral victory for the defiant satrap.
 
 Rahul’s reconciliation with Amarinder’s primacy in Punjab politics underlines the royal’s strengths despite his mega failures. Belonging to the dominant Jat Sikh community, he is the only pan-Punjab face in Congress ranks.
 
 Amarinder had burnished his religious credentials forever when he quit Congress in protest against  , and is now seen as an antidote to Akali Dal’s religious appeal.
 
 The Gandhi scion spotlighted Amarinder’s salience on Friday when he said Punjab would be run by Punjabis -- a “son of the soil” plea for votes and a jibe at rival AAP amid talk that Arvind Kejriwal could head the state in case the newbie wins.
 
 By all accounts, the announcement has not pleased a considerable section of the party which believes Amarinder blocked the emergence of new leadership in the state unit and then flagged the “TINA factor” to arm-twist the AICC.
 
 The ball is now in Amarinder’s court. Having been named the captain to steer the Congress ship in considerably choppy waters, he has no option but to deliver.
 
