CHANDIGARH: Unfazed by its dismal show in the recent   assembly polls,   (AAP) has decided to enter the fray again for civic elections in four key cities of the state. Arvind Kejriwal-led party, which had sat out the municipal elections in Chandigarh last year, will be contesting local bodies polls, scheduled for June this year, in Amritsar,  , Patiala, and Ludhiana.

 While boasting of momentum after a convincing victory in assembly elections, the   cadres are still anxious about the way the state leadership would handle the twin issues of rooting out drug menace in one month and waive off loans of farmers. This has apparently given a fresh hope to the Delhi-based party.
 
 AAP's Punjab convener Gurpreet Singh Waraich told TOI, "The party has decided to contest the local body elections and the ball will be set rolling after the Delhi municipal elections are over. AAP leadership is focused on that at present."
 
 Punjab local bodies minister   has already indicated that the elections in the four cities would be held on schedule in June. Work on ward delimitation had already begun, he had said.
 
 "I don't think after a miserable performance in the assembly elections, AAP will be able to find suitable candidates at all place in the state. As it is, voters would want to go with the party in power so that developmental works do not suffer," said a Congress leader.
 
 The ruling SAD-BJP alliance had swept the last municipal corporation polls in Punjab in 2012 with its candidates romping home in most of the wards in Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Amritsar and Patiala municipal bodies. Elections were held in June 2012, but the new houses took oath in September.
 
 In 2015 too, out of 2,037 wards in 122 municipal councils and nagar panchayats, SAD had won 813 wards while its ally   won 348 wards. The Congress, which was looking to strengthen its position in these elections, won 253 wards while Independents were victorious on 624 seats.
 
 "The party has raised the stakes by setting deadlines for resolution of the drug problem and this has raised expectations. The party manifesto clearly stated that the drug supply line will be checked in one month, which means by April 16. 
 
 Besides, while the Uttar Pradesh government has already waived loans of marginal farmers, Punjab has decided to set up a panel, which will give a report in one month. When AAP cadres are still demoralized, SAD would like to take the municipal elections as an opportunity for resurgence even though the elections come too close to the assembly results," said a Congress leader.
 
 Meanwhile, many AAP leaders in the four cities have already launched social media campaigns, targeting the Congress government for dithering on the debt waiver issue and projecting themselves as probable candidates of the party.
 
 Talking to mediapersons in Jalandhar on Wednesday, Sidhu had said municipal elections in the state would not be delayed. On delimitation, he said that in Amritsar, for instance, he had no objection to number of wards being increased from 65 to 75.
 
