PUNE:   is one amongst the most prominent thoroughfares in the bustling civilian area of  .

 Most streets in here are defined by what surrounds them. While   is a shoppers’ bliss with apparel stores almost amassed on top of the other, East Street is one that of books, restaurants and the occasional movie theatre. In Gaffarbeg Street’s grimy and dusty backdrops is the Chhatrapati   and a shrine frequented by people of all faiths. Old Modikhana and Bhimpura are packed with masses, often in squalor.
 
 Sachapir Street is a conglomerate of all that. There are teeming residences, old and abandoned bungalows — some of them renovated into apparel boutiques, restaurants, and religious gatherings — in a myriad of architectural styles.
 
 The history of the street revolves around the people of all ethnicities and professions who have lived here all along. The octogenarian owner of an old bakery, manager of a small construction firm, the regulars of Café Yezdan’s cup of tea, or the Parsi family that lives in a villa inspired by Portuguese architecture, all bear accounts to the street’s past.
 
 “There is no community you will not find here. That is the beauty of this street, besides the people who have lived and work here for over generations,” says Solomon who cooks for a local restaurant, originally from Tamil Nadu.
 
 The street’s character changes every few metres from its starting point Rani Laxmibai Park opposite to the Cantonment court. The court building itself is over a century old and crumbling under the weight of thousands who throng the complex every day.
 
 There are refurbished outlets of old tenants on the street- iconic jewellers, dressers, sports goods outlets, and an old police outpost. The lanes branch out into the chaotic Shivaji Market which is a mix of eclectic aromas, colour, people and even animals. And then there is the Radio hotel, a students’ favourite for its cheap meat preparations.
 
 Fifty metres ahead is the Parsi quarter. The Dastur Meher Road spreads out from the Sharbatwala Chowk. Everything that defines the Parsi community in the city can be found here.
 
 The house doors are marked with the mythical bird Faravahar, a symbol of Zoroastrianism, subsequently, Iranian nationalism. The community centre and prayer hall lies just nearby.
 
 Beyond this point are precincts of both rising and dropping fortunes. Some of the bungalows have been rebuilt over the years on the main street and inside the fetid lanes while others are today’s popular restaurants. The rest are just abandoned and almost haunting to look at. Who owns these houses?
 
 “Kaeen owner log to chal basse hai sir (Some of the owners have already died, sir), while their cases remain in court,” says Nasir Imam Shaikh, a nearby resident.
 
