INDORE:   whistleblower Prashant Pandey on Monday threatened to seek contempt of court proceedings against CBI and asked the investigating body to withdraw its submission made before the   that some people were creating digital records and making false complaints in the Vyapam case.

 CBI submission, in an affidavit filed before the Apex court, said it will be taking action against such individuals involved in making false allegations and creation of false records.
 
 Pandey claimed that CBI observation relates to hard disks, pen drives and other digital records seized during investigation into the Vyapam Scam. The Supreme Court had left it for the CBI court in   to take a decision on the veracity of the digital documents, thus collected.
 
 CBI had filed the counter-affidavit before the Apex court during hearing into petition by Pandey seeking transfer of investigation of Vyapam scam cases to CBI from Madhya Pradesh STF.
 
 CBI in the affidavit said it had reached a conclusion that the allegations of tampering of the seized hard disk was false and some of these persons making such allegations were found to be indulging in creation of false digital records and on that basis, making false complaints. 
 
 “CBI would also be taking necessary steps against the culprits in accordance with law, for making such false allegations and creation of fake documents,” the affidavit said.
 
 Pandey said in the letter that the submission is an open threat to the petitioner and others for bringing the Vyapam scam cases to judicial notice.
 
 “Unfortunately, it seems CBI as an investigating agency is more interested in initiating prosecution of the whistleblower, who has been agitating Vyapam scam for last two years before the constitutional courts of India,” he said.
 
 The veracity of forensic report on the digital documents seized in Vyapam scam is subject matter of CBI court, as per the directives of the Supreme Court. The submission in the counter-affidavit is in clear contempt of Supreme Court.
 
 If the CBI fails to withdraw the affidavit’s paragraph 10, containing the submission, Pandey said he may approach the Supreme Court under contempt jurisdiction against CBI.
 
