PANAJI: The All India   Federation ( ) has left the door ajar for Goa’s top teams to return to the top tier of Indian football.

 Former champions Dempo Sports Club, Salgaocar FC and Sporting Clube de Goa pulled out of the   this season in protest against the AIFF’s proposed restructuring of Indian football. The   were aghast at plans to make the Indian Super League (ISL) a top-tier competition and relegate I-League to the second division. But with the federation now maintaining that the proposed merger will take place only two or three years later, Goan clubs are being welcomed back.
 
 “I would be happy to see them back,” AIFF president Praful Patel told TOI in an exclusive interview. “I would only say that it’s unfortunate that the Goan teams pulled out. They should come back to the I-League,” he said.
 
 The Goan teams took a collective decision to pull out of the I-League and are likely to stick to their guns, unless the federation provides a clear roadmap for the development of Indian football.
 
 Interestingly, Patel will be the guest of honour at Dempo Sports Club’s golden jubilee celebrations in the city on Tuesday and is likely to address the issue of Goan clubs’ pull-out during his customary speech.
 
 “We do not have anything against any club. I would be happy to see them back. Whether it’s the ISL or the I-League, we need representation from across the country.” “Chennai has shown that two clubs can exist there. We have some people in Hyderabad who are interested in setting up a club. There is interest in Gujarat, Tatas are keen on Jamshedpur. We want teams across the country. I am happy to note the contribution of Goa and Kolkata,” said Patel.
 
 Technically, after missing out on the I-League this season – Dempo, in fact, after being promoted – Goan clubs will have to play in the second division to work their way to the top but the AIFF has made exceptions in the past. Aizawl FC were retained in the I-League despite being relegated a year earlier.
 
 “We have to see how we can accommodate. I don’t have an immediate answer,” said Patel.
 
