PUNE: All the big political parties have put   the announcement related to their candidates in the hope of striking mutually beneficial  . The lists, which were to be declared before January 15, are not ready as yet as the seat-sharing formulae have not been worked out. 

 “As per our first timetable, we were expected to declare our first list by January 20. But it does not seem possible at this moment, because we have to finalise the seat-sharing formula with Shiv Sena,” Yogesh Gogawale, city unit chief of BJP, said. The party has got a good response so selection of candidates has become tough task.
 
 The Shiv Sena has also withheld any decision on giving away tickets. The party had planned two rounds for the declaration of candidates. It has now been reduced to one round. 
 
 “Our list will be ready by January 25. Some names could have been declared earlier, but it will not happen now since our future with the BJP is still unclear,” Vinayak Nimhan, Shiv Sena’s city unit chief, said.
 
 NCP leaders were planning to take a lead in the selection and by declaring the first list of candidates as soon as the elections are announced. 
 
 “There are a few seats where our candidates will not change and their names will be announced immediately. The wards where more than one candidate is interested will be announced in second phase. Some candidates will be declared at the eleventh hour,” NCP leader Ajit Pawar had said at the convention.
 
 All these plans have altered after talks with the Congress and the candidates will be announced after a call on the alliance. “Some feel that if they tie up with the Congress, it may claim the seats which the NCP wants. There may be confusion over seat sharing. Hence, the declaration of candidature has taken a back seat,” a senior NCP leader said.
 
 Early declaration of names is important for the candidates as they get more time to reach out to the voters in the bigger wards. The Congress too is holding its horses. “Our candidates are ready, but we are waiting for the results of the talks with the NCP. We will not compromise on seat sharing which disrespects our party. Sitting corporators and party workers should get a fair chance in the seat distribution,” Arvind Shinde, leader of the Congress in PMC, said.
 
