MUMBAI: BJP president   has extended a formal invite to   for Prime Minister  's dinner for NDA allies.

 Shah rang up the   president on Thursday and requested him to attend the dinner scheduled for April 10 in New Delhi. While the Sena has accepted Shah's invite, it is unclear if Uddhav will attend it. The PM is expected to seek views of the BJP's allies on the NDA candidate for the presidential election, it is said.
 
 The invite is the BJP's move to assuage the Sena whose support Modi needs to install the NDA 's nominee in Rashtra pati Bhavan. Although the BJP bagged more than 300 seats in the recently held UP state assembly election, the party still needs 25,000 votes to win the presidential election.
 
 “The situation is a tad delicate. We can't afford to upset the Sena at this point of time,“ said a senior state BJP functionary on Friday.
 
 Sensing the BJP's vulnerability, the Sena has begun to act tough. Senior party leader San jay Raut recently demanded the BJP high command should take the Sena into confidence while deciding the NDA nominee and top BJP leaders visit Matoshree in this connection.
 
 “Amit-ji struck a middle path by calling Thackeray. There was no way Amit-ji could have driven to Matoshree. After all, he is the president of a national party which is in office at the Centre and in most states,“ said the BJP functionary . The Sena made matters dif ficult for the BJP by recommending RSS chief  's name for the presidential election. While Bhagwat promptly rejected the proposal, Raut reiterated his suggestion in a signed article in Saamna last Sunday.
 
 BJP's dinner invite to Thackeray comes at a time when the allies are at each other's throats on the loan waiver issue. Matters came to a boil recently when the Sena, which shares power with the BJP in Maharashtra, joined the Opposition to bring the state legislature to a halt for four consecutive weeks on the issue.
 
 Also, Sena legislators have been sore with chief minister Devendra Fadnavis over nonavailability of funds to keep development projects going in their pocketboroughs. They met Thackeray on Thursday.Following his instructions, they discussed the state fund issue with the CM on Friday.
 
