Shimla: Despite not being a producer of asafoetida (hing), India consumes 40% of world’s total production each year. So far, hing is produced only in Afghanistan, Turkmenistan, Baluchistan, Iran and Iraq, but now for the first time efforts are on to produce it in Himachal Pradesh as a scientist from Bilaspur district has procured seeds of hing from Iran. If experiment remains a success, it would change the economy of the hill state as 1kg of pure hing is sold for Rs 35,000.

 It was difficult to procure hing seeds as the their producer countries do not export them. Coffee Board of India director and former scientist Dr Vikram Sharma said he had received the seeds for chemical characterization. 
 
 He said as around one lakh seeds are available with him, he would further develop seedlings from them. He said that from one plant, around 750g of seeds are expected. He has planned to produce 20-25kg of seeds and distribute them among farmers of the state, Uttarakhand and Kashmir. 
 
 Sharma said that in India, hing is used in spices and medicines, but till date no efforts have been made by any government to ensure its cultivation within the country. As hing is also produced in snowbound areas of Afghanistan, there is plan to plant the seeds in cold desert of Spiti valley in Lahaul-Spiti district apart from mid-Himalayan regions. He said hing is one of the best plant spices to be cultivated in sub-Himalayan region, specifically from Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal, Uttarakhand and some hilly parts of Bihar states.
 
 But, due to its less production, the cost is very high. He said farmers of Northern Himalayan region of India should come forward to cultivate it for the uplifting of their socio-economic status and agro-horticulture developmental reforms.
 
 “It can be cultivated along with other valuable spices like dalchini (cinnamon), fruits like avocados and international essential commodities crop like coffee plantations to make agro-horticulture more viable and flexible for poor agriculturists of above states,” he added.
 
 He said if the government takes proper initiative to establish a sub-Himalayan development board, then the barren wasteland will turn into goldmine for farmers of mid-Himalayan region.
 
 
