GURUGRAM: Residents of five private societies in   are mulling various options of how to get civic authorities to take responsibility of roads in their neighbourhood. Their choices include not voting in the upcoming   polls, or else get the road repaired themselves and then ask MCG if they can charge outsiders for using their roads. 

 Residents said they would like to ask whether MCG is responsible for maintenance of roads in their sector. They have decided that if MCG says they have nothing to do with it, then RWAs will maintain the roads and start charging outsiders for their use.
 
 “MCG has to declare whether they own this road or not. We need to know from them, whether we’re within our limits to repair them and start charging toll from outsiders to recover the road repair charges. Last week, Fresco residents contributed money and fixed potholes on a portion of the road leading to their society entrance, using cold mix technology,” said RWA president Nilesh Tandon of Nirvana Fresco.
 
 A meeting of several RWAs was held on Sunday, with representatives from  ,  ,  ,   and   (Block I). According to residents, while the areas are yet to come under MCG, the government can still get developers to build the roads by putting pressure on them through department of town and country planning.
 
 P S Kohli, secretary of Nirvana RWA, said residents will meet the MCG commissioner next week. “We will submit letters informing them that residents from our societies will exercise NOTA and abstain from voting for any candidate, if roads are not fixed before MCG polls. The same process will be repeated in the assembly elections later as well,” said Kohli.
 
 Residents said they will also be holding a series of protests if the roads in their societies are not repaired on time. TOI had earlier reported that a group of resident welfare associations from Nirvana Country, Fresco and South City 2 were planning a protest on the coming weekend.
 
 The protest, named ‘No roads no votes’, is to drive home the point that residents will not vote in the upcoming MCG elections unless their society roads are repaired on time.
 
 “We’re aggrieved by the condition of roads in our areas, and hence we will be joining the protest, but we are also in talks with the government. We are hopeful that the road will be repaired soon in our area once the takeover is done,” said Neeraj Yadav, president, RWA, South City 2. When TOI contacted MCG officials, they passed the buck to developers. “The responsibility of road maintenance is with the developer, as the area is yet to be transferred to us,” said a MCG official.
 
 
