LUCKNOW: Galloping horses break the monotony in the air in this village, otherwise given to an occasional child shouting at the discovery of his friend playing hide-and-seek.

 ‘Badal’, ‘Chetak’ and ‘Vishwas’ seem to have caught the fancy of the Sisendi village in Mohanlalganj constituency of the state capital. The three horses, named after those owned by great warriors, bring with them the feel of a time when kings used to ride in their kingdoms.
 
 The horses have been hired by the daughter of an SP candidate. ‘Badal’, who was the horse of Rani Laxmi Bai, stands to reach unfathomable heights. ‘Chetak’, named after the horse of Maharana Pratap, stands to have the speed of lightning, and ‘Vishwas’, named after Shivaji’s horse, stands for worldly wisdom.
 
 As the ‘warhorses’ march on the road, villagers come flocking to witness the ride and listen to the message the riders have to deliver. For 60-year-old Munni Devi, it is an amazing experience. “It’s the first time in my life that I have seen a campaign on horses. Three people on horseback come here, stand in front of the gate and tell us about the welfare schemes of the government, then move to another house and deliver the message. The entire exercise is very fascinating,” she said.
 
 “It’s very exciting. We look forward to the time when the horses march in our village, it reminds us of the old days when the kings and emperors used to ride in their kingdom. It also gives a feeling of transparency and clarity of the candidate”, said Atma Ram, resident of Nagram.
 
 The children of the village too run after the ‘karavan’ (cavalcade) as soon as they spot it, while rival parties are apparently at a loss when it comes to capturing the imagination of the people here.
 
 The idea was floated by Anshika Verma, daughter of SP candidate from Mohanlalganj, Ambrish Singh. Anshika is a student of BCom (III) at the National PG College in Lucknow. At a time when online campaigns are trending, these stallions promise the return of golden and peaceful days. The names of the horses too have been chosen so as to strike a chord with the public sentiment, Anshika told TOI.
 
 Anshika goes on to say that the party is carrying forward on the development plank of Akhilesh Yadav government. She explains that she will convince voters about schemes like Viklang Pension, Lohia Awas Yojna and Women Power Line 1090, besides development work like the construction of the Lucknow-Agra Expressway.
 
 
