 is definitely getting interesting as the finale is approaching closer. The reality series which is witnessing high points one after the other, is now all set to see a grand wedding on the show. Yes, you read it right. Bhojpuri actress and   contestant  , who is currently locked inside the house, is all set to tie the knot with her beau   on the show tomorrow (Jan 17, 2017). Vikrant will be proposing his lady love today on the sets and if everything falls into place, the wedding will happen tomorrow.
 
  Vikrant is super excited about the same and hasn't slept since the plan was chalked out. He says, "I was out of India for a show when the makers of Bigg Boss contacted me. I was instantly kicked about it as Mona and I had decided to take our relationship to the next level. Luckily, people at Bigg Boss knew about it and they asked me If I would like to marry Mona on national television. I think I am very lucky that I am marrying Mona on a such a big platform and I am thankful to the makers."
  
  
 
  
  When asked, what are the preparations he is doing from his side to make the wedding a memorable one, "Frankly, speaking I haven't got enough time to think about it or do any preparation. The moment we locked the decision, the first thing I did was to run and get a diamond ring in Muscat. I will pop the question to Mona with this ring. Rest let's see how things happen. Our families are also involved so they will be taking care of a few things and rituals," said Vikrant.
  
  This is not the first time when Bigg Boss house is witnessing a wedding. In season four, TV actors   and   had also taken the nuptial vows on TV. However, they were paid a whopping amount to get married on national television.
  
  On being asked, if the makers are also paying him to tie the knot on small screen, Vikrant said, "No, I haven't taken any money to get married. Because Mona and I were as it is going to get married after the show. It's just that now the wedding is happening early. Our wedding will not be like Sara and Ali Merchant's. It will be a real wedding and we are not getting married for money."
  
  What if Mona rejects his proposal and wants to focus on her career at the moment, he said, "I always think positive and I know more than me, Mona will be excited for the wedding," said the Bhojpuri actor.
  
  Vikrant was initially disturbed with Mona's closeness with inmate   on the show. In fact, when the last time he entered the show, Manu and Vikrant did not share good rapport.
  
  When asked about his reaction to Manu saying bad things about him after the exit, "I never doubted Mona. I always knew she was acting. As a partner, I didn't appreciate the things that were happening between them on TV as a lot of people close to me were watching the show. Any guy would get insecure. As far as Manu is concerned we all know he loves backbiting. Salman sir recently told him he does girly stuff I think this itself proves what kind of person Manu is. It was a big slap on his face. He never said anything to me on my face, had he done that I would have given it back then and there," concluded Vikrant.
  
  
 
  
  
 
