MUMBAI: Mumbai coach  's job is on the line after his team played out a drab, goalless draw against a very young   at the   here on Sunday .

 This is Mumbai's third straight draw after losing six straight matches and sources have said that the management is running out of patience with Kashyap.
 
 TOI had reported on Sunday on how Kashyap had reportedly asked the Mumbai trio of  ,   and   to leave the team, a decision that didn't go down well with majori ty of the team members and fans. Their demotivation showed on the field as the team lacked the fighting spirit and didn't really look threatening though they were in command for most of the match.
 
 They did pose a threat in dead ball situations, but Minerva goalkeeper Arnab Das was up to the task, pulling off at least three brilliant saves.
 
 The only entertaining part about the match was both sets of fans. The away team supporters may have outnumbered the home team fans, but they couldn't silence the chants of the latter.
 
 The `Yellow Brigade', Mumbai FC's official fan club, had planned chants against Kashyap, and they didn't disappoint.From the word go, they called for Kashyap to be ousted but only in words that are un printable. In a strong show of support to Steven, Allan and Pratik, the Mumbai fans kept chanting the names of the trio throughout the match.
 
 Kashyap, though, remained defiant, saying that his team played well. When asked if he was frustrated with the result, he answered in the negative.
 
 “There's no frustration. We dominated the match but we couldn't get the goal.All we have to do is try harder next match,“ he said, also choosing to see the funny side of the chants against him. “These people choose to come here and watch the match rather than go out partying. So I have to respect that because they are an important part of the club. I have nothing against them as I know when we win, they will start supporting me again,“ he said.
 
 Mumbai controlled the ball well in midfield, but struggled to combine with the strikers. Their first chance of the match came in the 11th minute when Anderson Da Silva's header from a Thoi Singh cross went past the goalkeeper, only for the offside flag to be raised.
 
 
