NAGPUR: On the World Sparrow Day on March 20, the Nagpur forest division has decided to implement a   programme at Japanese Garden,  .

 Nagpur deputy conservator of forest (DyCF) G Mallikarjuna said, “We have been sanctioned Rs1 lakh for the purpose. To start with, on March 21, the World Forestry Day, we will distribute at least 300 earthen bowls to students at a rally at Maharajbagh.” These are used to provide water to birds.
 
 “We have also ordered 1,000 artificial nests to be distributed to interested people. These will be first installed at Seminary Hills on priority. We have also placed 10 steel stands on which bowls with water and feed will be kept for sparrows,” said Mallikarjuna.
 
 This is perhaps for the first time such an initiative has been taken up by the forest department. Similar sparrow conservation programme will also be launched at   (SGNP), Borivali, and forest department’s Rambagh Colony in Chandrapur.
 
 “Though aimed at sparrows, the initiative will also help 268 bird species seen in Seminary Hills area,” said honorary wildlife warden Kundan Hate.
 
 For the last three days Nature Forever Society has been implementing ‘Great Sparrow Count’. Many NGOs and individuals took part in the event.
 
  as part of the worldwide celebrations. Buoyed by the appeal, many bird watchers in the city installed bird feeders and also set up artificial nests for sparrows.
 
 Avid bird watcher from the city Venkatesh Mudaliar said, “We installed 20 artificial nests for sparrows in   area. Four spots were identified where sparrows were in good numbers.”
 
  coordinator Mohammed Dilawar said the event evoked good response from groups and individuals. Sparrow population around the world is declining. The humble house sparrow is one of the world’s most common and widespread species.
 
 “Apart from the house sparrow, there are 26 distinct species of sparrow. It was an effort to create awareness about all these species spread across Asia, Africa and Europe,” said Dilawar.
 
