THANE: Investigators in the   have unearthed transactions of more than Rs 10 lakh from the prime accused  's bank account which was deposited over the past couple of months, the prosecution told the court while seeking police custody of the 21 accused arrested by the  .

 The accused were produced in the special court of AN Karmarkar on Saturday wherein the district government pleader pointed out to the court that the offence was very serious in nature and various aspects of the case were to be investigated.
 
 So far, a total of 24 persons have been arrested in the army exam paper leak case, of which 21 were produced in the special court where the prosecution sought extension of the police custody, claiming that the probe is in a crucial stage at this juncture.
 
 The courtroom was packed to capacity with several advocates, most of them juniors, and spectators wanting to have a glimpse of the armymen allegedly involved in the racket.These armymen were of lower rank of clerks.
 
 The prosecution told the court that investigators have found that despite not having eligible qualification to appear for the exam, Shinde and the other accused had forged documents, including domicile certificates.
 
 Currently , a house searches are going in Satara, Pune Phaltan, Nashik and Goa and the sleuths have found a bulk of admission forms, receipt books, attendance musters, cheque books admission forms among other papers.
 
 “These is a lot of crucial evidence in the case and investigators want to join the dots,“ said senior official Sangita Phad.
 
 While a check of money trail and accounts of Shinde found deposit amounts of more than Rs 10 lakh, that of accused Akshay Sable has shown traces of money trail and transfer of money to Shinde. “Sable does not have any income source was found with transactions worth lakhs which requires investigation,“ Shailesh Nagarkar, the investigation officer in the case told the court.
 
 The court extended the custody of the accused till March 8.
 
