On Saturday, a day before polling, some   relaxed, played cricket or prayed, others held last-minute meetings and remained busy with work. Candidates of different constituencies shared with TOI what they did on the day before voters seal their fate.

 
 
 At 8am, candidate for this seat Pradeep Kumar Singh of Sarvoday Bharat Party bows to the Constitution, about which he spread awareness through his campaign and then spent some time alone in the park near his home in Indiranagar. “I find solace in nature,” he said. Independent candidate Prabhu Nath Rai, president of Bhojpuri Samaj, held last-minute meetings and performed a puja on the Chhath ghat he had visited before filing his nomination, while at his home-cum-office in Neelgiri Apartments, SP-Congress alliance candidate Anurag Bhadauria took time out to play with his “grameen” cricketers in a friendly match.
 
 
 
 Rashtriya Lok Dal candidate Jagdish Rawat, visited the spot on his family farm where his parents were cremated, where he has always gone to pay his tributes on every important day of his life. “I get strength from here and after winning, I will come back.” Independent candidate Ramesh Kumar visited his ancestral Chiranjeev Mahadev temple, while another independent candidate Jitendra Kumar worked from home. “I called all well-wishers and appealed to them to cast their vote,” he said.
 
 MOHANLALGANJ
 
 Samajwadi Party candidate Ambrish Singh’s close confidant Ram Kumar Lodhi, was crushed to death by a speeding truck in Sisendi on Saturday. “I was going to the temple when I got the news,” Ambrish told TOI, adding, “It is tough to cope with loss of someone who contributed so much to the campaign.” Supporters of independent candidate supported by BJP and the Apna Dal, R K Chaudhary thronged his Indiranagar residence and he appealed to all to vote and not press the NOTA button. BSP candidate Ram Bahadur, stayed home in Vikasnagar spent time with family and enjoyed home-cooked food. 
 
 LUCKNOW CENTRAL
 
 BJP candidate Brajesh Pathak sought blessings of Lord Hanuman visiting temples in Hazratganj and the one near DM’s residence. SP candidate Ravidas Mehrotra held some “indoor” meetings with booth workers of SP as well as Congress. BSP candidate Rajeev Srivastava started his day with his morning walk. “I visited polling booths to check arrangements and told party workers to help out voters facing any problem,” he told TOI. Congress candidate Maroof Khan spent the day meeting people and settled outside his office opposite Safed Baradari discussing preparations with party workers.
 
 LUCKNOW NORTH
 
 BJP candidate Neeraj Bora organised a puja at his house, while BSP candidate observed a fast on Saturday. SP candidate Abhishek Mishra started the day with prayers and met his supporters. “I also have responsibility of stepping up the party’s campaign in the next four phases.” After meeting poll agents and close aides, Bora met BJP leader and former Uttarakhand CM N D Tiwari. BSP candidate Ajay Srivastava, alias Ajju, ended the day with a puja at Shani Dev temple. 
 
 BAKSHI KA TALAB
 
 SP candidate Gomti Yadav, woke up at 6am and prayed at home before visiting the Mahadev Temple. He met senior citizens and sought their blessings. Avinash Trivedi of the BJP started his day with Bhagwati prayer and went to Hanuman Mandir. Lok Dal candidate Rajendra Prasad Yadav sought wishes of locals.
 
 SAROJININAGAR
 
 Candidates spent the day mostly meeting party workers.BJP candidate Swati Singh said she met booth-level officers to check if they had got the election slips delivered. SP candidate Anurag Yadav huddled with party workers and thanked them for their hard work in the past 18 days. RLD’s Sharda Pratap Shukla devoted the day to party workers. 
 
 LUCKNOW WEST
 
 BJP candidate Suresh Srivastava said, “I started my day with puja at home as usual. Later, I met close relatives and workers in their homes,” he said. BSP candidate Armaan Khan spent all day meeting workers. “We met volunteers and booth-level workers to know if there were any problems,” he said.
 
 
