Nagpur: A team of doctors at the Meditrina Institute of Medical Sciences (MIMS) have reconstructed the damaged trachea (wind pipe) of 32-year-old Girish Dafare by using tissues from elsewhere in his body. The doctors claim that this is a rare surgery and probably the first of its kind in the country. 

 The surgery not only brought back Dafare’s voice, it also gave him a new lease of life. A depressed Dafare had threatened to commit suicide soon after losing his voice.
 
 The operation was an “extremely challenging” task. The team, which did the procedure, was also doing it for the first time. The entire surgery was done over a period of one and half months in stages. 
 
 “The procedure lasted 12 hours. We read the literature and discussed the issue with many experts before deciding on taking the course followed in the procedure,” said Dr Sameer Paltewar, the MD of MIMS and the neurosurgeon who had treated the patient for his brain injury following the accident which had led to the complications.
 
 Dafare told TOI that he couldn’t speak after being treated for a head injury at MIMS itself. He was told by Dr Paltewar that repeated tracheostomy could cause complications like the tracheal stenosis (blocking of the trachea). 
 
 “I went to Mumbai for an opinion but was turned back by 3 top hospitals. So, I came back to MIMS and got a ray of hope when they did the first procedure. I had sent an SMS to Dr Paltewar threatening suicide as I couldn’t see the misery my parents were going through,” said Dafare.
 
 His father Suresh, a retired railway employee, says that he didn’t have the money (about Rs 12 lakh) needed for the surgery. “All I could raise was about Rs2.5 lakh after mortgaging my house. I am thankful to the hospital for not charging me the balance. It is a new life for the entire family. Girish can go back to his job with a telecommunication company now,” he said.
 
 Plastic surgeon Dr Parikshit Janai and ENT surgeon Dr Gaurav Agarwal, who did the reconstruction of the trachea and then fitted it into the right place, felt that it was “a risk worth taking”.
 
 Dr Paltewar said that the trachea was damaged badly because of continuous ventilation to the patient for over three weeks. The ENT team at MIMS had done an end-to-end joining of the trachea. But the operation didn’t succeed and the sutures broke. The broken tracheal tube was pulled apart half into the neck and chest, creating a gap of 4.5cm.
 
 The doctors then decided to go for the tracheal reconstruction of the missing part. “That is why we took cartilage from the two ears and fabricated a trachea by putting it over the radial artery in the hand. The tissue flap was converted into a tube like trachea. We even put a stent to avoid collapsing of the trachea in future,” said Dr Paltewar.
 
 The anaesthesia team, which helped manage the procedure, was led by Dr Deepak Madankar, Dr Sheetal Samel, Dr Neelesh Mathankar, Dr Ritesh Borkar and Dr Latika Panpaliya.
 
 Senior ENT surgeon from city, Dr Madan Khapre, called the procedure “commendable and rare”. “The first step was to do an end-to-end anastomoses. If that fails, than reconstructing the trachea is a logical step and the only option. The procedure is creditable,” he said.
 
 Another ENT surgeon from Mumbai said that the best thing to do in such cases should have been end-to-end anastomoses. “You need to wait and watch whether the trachea stays or collapses. Since a stent is also put it may sustain,” he said.
 
 
