When a band took the stage at a literary festival with electric guitars and drums, nobody expected a modern take on ‘Tilak karta trepan thaya...’ written by Akha Bhagat, a 17th century Gujarati poet of Ahmedabad. But the fusion was an instant hit with the crowd. Alakh-Sound of Soil, an Ahmedabad band behind the experiment, is ready with more shows for cities in Gujarat and in Mumbai. Apart from Akha Bhagat, the line-up includes medieval literary luminaries such as Mirabai, Ganga Sati and Bhoja Bhagat. 

   , the lead singer of the band, said that the idea stemmed from a suggestion made by Dhruv Bhatt, an author, to take renowned Gujarati works to the new generation through a medium it would appreciate. “A literary form such as chappa, which was mastered by Akha Bhagat, was challenging to sing but we are happy with the result,” she said.
 
 Apart from her, the group includes Chintan Naik, Divij Naik, and Tumul Buch along with other musicians. The group members said that it was a nostalgia trip on adrenalin for many of the audience members who heard renditions on timeless themes such as faith, spirituality, and social problems. “We will be happy if the effort takes our language’s treasures to the next generation,” said Chintan Naik.
 
 Palitana’s   retraces folk littérateur’s steps
 
 He dresses like Jhaverchand Meghani, lauded as the Rashtriya Shayar by Mahatma Gandhi. The dress is not just for show. Ranchhod Maru, 53, has been retracing the steps of Meghani — littérateur, freedom fighter, and social reformer — over the past 15 years. So far, Maru has covered over 400 locations mentioned in Meghani’s books on Saurashtra’s folklores and songs. 
 
  “I was fascinated by Meghani early in my life, when my grandfather used to tell me stories about him,” said Maru, a mason. “And I used to dream about the characters mentioned in his works such as ‘Saurashtra ni Rasdhaar’ and ‘Sorathi Baharvatiya.’ I could never study beyond class I but I have read all his works.”
 
 How did his journey start? “When I visited Gir in 2002, I came across villages mentioned in Meghani’s work,” Maru said. “It gave me pleasure that I cannot describe. I never looked back. I saved money and travelled. People were very helpful and many told me back-stories from their memory.” Maru said he was indebted to his family for allowing him to pursue his passion. He is penning a book on his journey. Maru’s tale is full of trivia about Meghani and his works. “I interact with children and youth and talk about Meghani,” he said. “Meghani is still revered everywhere. My work provides the geography of his works and will also list existing and destroyed sites.”
 
 
