Mumbai:   has picked up Rs 45 crore in venture debt from   for setting up a new cold chain and warehousing facility. This comes at a time when the Bengaluru-based online food and grocery portal has been in the market scouting for fresh funds and had explored acquiring its smaller rival  , as reported by TOI earlier . The grocery e-tailer had mandated investment bank Morgan Stanley for a $150 million fund-raise, which was expected to close by April but people familiar with the ongoing discussions said the financing round may take longer to materialise.

 BigBasket’s move is significant because online juggernaut   has mapped out a major push for the food and grocery segment in India, paralleling its global strategy around this space. The Seattle-based online retailer has said it wants to invest $500 million in food retail here through offline stores.
 
 Big Basket and Grofers, too have submitted their   plans to enter the food retail segment through brick and mortar stores. Amazon’s homegrown competitor,  , recently said it is keen to break into the grocery business after previous attempts to make inroads in this category did not scale.
 
 The interest of online retailers around daily consumables, food and groceries is largely because it has high repeat purchases, not typical of other categories like electronics and furniture.
 
 “We are in the last leg of a pilot which will ensure that all fruits and vegetables are maintained at constant temperature and there by improve shelf life of the produce by almost 10 days. This will be done using large scale equipment such as pre-coolers and ventilators . Funding such capex requirements is best done through debt.” said Hari Menon, co-founder,  , which runs Big Basket.
 
 The e-grocer saw its sales grow 231% to Rs 563 crore in the financial year ending March 2016.But net losses zoomed to Rs 277 crore from Rs 61 crore, on the back of increased marketing spends like signing Bollywood actors Shahrukh Khan as a brand ambassador, spiralling cost per delivery , and expenditure incurred on setting up warehouses. Its investors include Abraaj Capital, Ascent Capital, Zodius Capital, World Bank’s IFC, Helion Venture Partners, Bessemer Venture Partners, among others. BigBasket claims to be clocking an average of 50,000 daily orders out of which 25% is on its express platform, while Grofers does around 10,000 average orders per day.
 
 
