NAGPUR: The local unit of BJP, which had made an electoral promise in 2014 to carve out a separate Vidarbha, is treading cautiously over the political divorce vis-à-vis separate state of Vidarbha. However, Shiv Sena members celebrated their party’s move to part ways and   have also greeted with glee the divorce, hoping that it would pave the way for formation of the separate state.

 “It is a big relief for the statehood struggle. At least one hurdle is cleared now. For decades, the BJP has been using it as an excuse, citing long-term ally Sena’s avowed stance against dividing Marathi-speaking Maharashtra as the main reason to keep the issue dangling,” said Anil Kilor of Janmanch, an NGO. 
 
 The NGO had conducted an informal referendum in several Vidarbha villages in which 95% voters supported separate state of Vidarbha.
 
 “Right now the situation is unclear since the Sena continues to be part of the state government. The day the Sena walks out of the Fadnavis government, the BJP would be better placed to take its own decision on Vidarbha,” Kilor said.
 
 The pro-Vidarbha organizations are unhappy that the BJP is still silent on the creation of separate Vidarbha. “No doubt the Sena-BJP split is positive development as far as the statehood agitation is concerned,” said Vidarbha Connect (VCan) president  . “Now, CM Fadnavis and Union minister Nitin Gadkari, who promised us separate state, should speak out openly and put pressure on the Modi government to fulfil the promise,” Samarth said.
 
 A recently launched weekly publisher   is also hopeful that the Sena-BJP split is permanent, it would bode well for creation of Vidarbha state. “The BJP is the only party which has passed a resolution in its national executive to create the state. With Sena out, the ball is now in the BJP court,” said Singalkar.
 
 If posts on social media are an indication, the pro-Vidarbha groups are now out to teach the Sena a lesson. “In last Assembly elections, when Sena, BJP fought separately, the Sena could barely win four seats while the BJP riding on statehood promise won 44 seats in the region. Now it is time to wipe out Sena from Vidarbha for working against the interests of Vidarbhites,” said one post. “The Sena won four   seats, three of them in their stronghold of western Vidarbha because of the alliance with BJP. Now the BJP will fight against Sena to wipe it out completely from the region,” said a VCan member.
 
