MUMBAI: Geeta Kapoor (58) did not find anything amiss when her choreographer son called for an ambulance and rushed her to a private   in Goregaon on April 21 to treat her falling blood pressure. But more than a month later, as the hospital has failed to contact the son to take Kapoor home, her darkest fears have come true that she has been abandoned.

 SRV Hospital in Goregaon is in a quandary as a perfectly healthy Kapoor is fit for discharge but has no one to pay for the treatment and sign the discharge papers. She has no home to go back to, the hospital has found. They have sought police help in tracing her son or finding an alternative for her, which could be sending her to an old age home. The   is close to Rs 1.5 lakh.
 
 Doctors recalled how Kapoor was rushed in an unconscious condition. The hospital had sent an ambulance along with a nurse to their residence after a frantic call from the son on April 21. “As soon as the ambulance brought her to hospital, the son asked if a deposit had to be paid. He left the hospital on the pretext of looking for an ATM and never returned. Since admission, no one from the family has asked about her,” said Dr Dipendra Tripathi, chief intensivist of the hospital.
 
 While public hospitals encounter such cases more often, doctors say such incidents are rare at private centres. Tripathi said the senior Kapoor was in a bad condition at the time of admission as she was clearly undernourished. The doctors, however, did not find signs of physical assault, Tripathi confirmed. “Her BP was low. She was definitely not well-fed,” he added. After abandonment, she is battling depression, the doctor said. 
 
 More surprises were in store for the hospital when they visited the residence to look for the son. Neighbours told hospital representatives they had rented the apartment three months ago and had vacated it within hours of sending the mother to hospital. Interestingly, the son had said he was a resident of Four Bungalows in Andheri at the time of admission. Tripathi said the mother too confirmed the Andheri address. “We have approached police to track the family,” he said. Tripathi said the hospital has tried reaching out to Kapoor’s daughter, allegedly an air-hostess, and daughter-in-law. 
 
 API   of Goregaon police station said they cannot shift a patient to an old age home or a public hospital on the basis of a complaint from a hospital. “More so when the person’s biological relatives are alive. We can’t risk moving such a patient. What if something happens to her? We can only assist the hospital in looking for the son,” he said. He added that the son was communicating through text messages and assured the hospital he will pay up and take his mother as soon as he has time to spare. The hospital, however, feels the assurances are false and lamented that police have done little to help them as they filed an application on May 2.
 
 
