BENGALURU: The Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) 2017, the gateway for admission to 18 national law schools across India, held on Sunday was anything but easy, said aspiring lawyers who wrote the exam in Bengaluru.

 Over 50,000 students across the country had registered to take this online exam for admission to both undergraduate and post-graduate law courses. This year, CLAT was convened by the  , Patna. 
 
 Those appearing for the exam in Karnataka wrote the test in 6 centres, 5 of which were in the capital, with the sixth being in  .
 
 “Across India, 47,106 students took the exam; this number is 93% of those who registered. Of the 1,535 students who registered for the UG exam in Karnataka, 1,333 turned up at the centres. For the PG exam, the numbers were 169 and 148, respectively,” said officials from National Law School of India University ( ).
 
 “I struggled with the general knowledge section, but found the other sections easy,” said Pallavi Pinto, a candidate who is hoping to get admission to NLSIU.
 
 “I took a very long time to solve the maths section, but then I think maths is everybody’s weak point. Even though they were multiple-choice questions, we still had to devote a certain amount of time on each question, so time was definitely an issue,” said Sanjana Mishra, a student.
 
 “Even though our exam started at 3pm, we had to report at 1:30pm for the biometric attendance and I had to travel during peak hours for this. I was exhausted even before writing the exam,” said Veena Suryanarayan. 
 
 Sugandha, a PG student, said: “Surprisingly, environmental law was difficult. I expected more questions from international law and contracts.”
 
 Many science students who also wrote ComedK on the same day had a tough time reaching the centres.
 
 “Since I had to appear for ComedK exam in the morning, it was difficult for me to travel from one centre to another. I managed to reach   just in time for CLAT. While assigning centres, they should have thought of science students who’d be forced to travel long distances. Else, they should have given us the option of choosing centres we’d be comfortable with,” said Simran Chawla, a candidate.
 
 
 
 
 “In the undergraduate paper, the maths and general knowledge sections were tougher than usual, but English, legal aptitude and logical reasoning sections were on the easier side. In the legal aptitude section, there were a few questions on legal maxims which students found tough,” said Anita T of Paradygm Law, a coaching institute in the city.
 
 
 
 
