KOLKATA: Bengal is one of the nine states, including Rajasthan, Kerala and Delhi, where more than 75% parents have claimed that fees in their children’s school have increased beyond 10% for the 2017-2018 academic session, a nation-wide survey has revealed. 

 Among the 800-odd respondents from Bengal, most have enrolled their children in private schools affiliated to CBSE or ICSE board. More than 52% respondents from the state said the fee hike in their children’s schools was over 20%. Around 24% parents in Bengal said the fee hike was between 11% and 20% and another 24% said the hike was between 0%-10%. The survey, done by community social media platform LocalCircles, was based on int-erviews with parents. 
 
 Nationally, 54% said their children’s school had increased fee between 11% and 20%; 15% said the increase was above 20% and 31% said the increase has been between 0 and 10%. 
 
 More than 9000 parents/grandparents participated in the survey nationally.
 
 The study assumes significance after the CBSE last year asked all schools to reveal their fee structure to bring in transparency. Also, the association of schools affiliated to ICSE and CBSE in Karnataka last week decided not to hike fees by more than 10% every year.
 
 Last month, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had expressed her desire to sit with the private schools to put a cap on the ever-increasing fee structure.
 
 While the survey talks of an average increase in school fees, a closer look at the fee structure of several schools reveal that the hikes have been made under several heads and in some cases the resultant fees are double that of the previous year.
 
 A prominent CBSE school in central Kolkata is among those which have implemented a fee hike. A Class IX student of the school paid a quarterly fee of Rs 29,000 for 2016-2017, which was increased to Rs 31,000 for the new academic session. 
 
 Another school affiliated to ICSE at Tollygunge increased its fee by 8%- 9%. In 2016-2017 a student of Class V here paid a monthly fee of Rs 1,350, which was hiked to Rs 1,465. The session fee was also increased from Rs 3,700 to Rs 3,800.
 
 Most schools in the city claimed a 10% hike in fees was normal and cited rising expenditure and the cost of retaining quality teachers as among the reasons that force them to hike fees every year. 
 
 “The capital expenditure keeps increasing. How can the schools sustain without hiking fee every year?” questioned Sujoy Biswas, principal of  . 
 
 “The student teacher ratio in my school is 12:1. No school can compete with us. There is an increase in DA, salary of teachers every year. We offer air-conditioned bus services and three meals are included in the fee. We also don’t charge any additional fee for city excursions. Hence, 7%-8% hike is done every year,” said principal of  , Seema Sapru.
 
 According to the director of Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, Anindita Chatterjee, the nominal 10% hike every year was unavoidable. “There is hike in electricity tariff as more air conditioners are being installed. The staff rooms, class rooms, laboratories, conference rooms in our school are now air conditioned,” she said. 
 
 A school affiliated to CBSE in Alipore said a fee hike of 10%-12% was normal. “The rate of inflation is between 10% and 15% each year. We include new activities every academic session. Be it archery or horse riding, everything involves a price. Hence, we are bound to hike the fee as well,” said the principal. 
 
 Principal of BSS school, Sunita Sen, too echoed a similar view. “This year we have hiked the fee marginally by 5% to cover our overhead costs,” 
 
 
