On Friday, Harmanpreet Kaur’s explosive batting and Deepti Sharma’s tight bowling ensured that the Indian women’s   team made it to the final of the 2017 ICC Women’s Cricket World Cup (WCWC). This is the second time that India is in the final, after having lost to   in the 2005 WCWC final, and will be looking to make history, if they manage to outmuscle hosts   at the iconic Lord’s venue.
India’s impressive run at the tournament has increased the interest levels in women’s cricket all over the country, and in Bengaluru, it’s been no different. A quick look at social media trends and hashtags reveals the slow but steady rise in interest in the tournament. Die-hard cricket fan Girish G, who is happy with the amount of coverage and attention that the women’s cricket team has received, attributes all the attention to a variety of reasons. He says, “First off, India has been playing very well and has to be credited for all the brouhaha surrounding the team. Second, it’s a great decision by the broadcasters to telecast more matches than previous world cups. That automatically increases the viewership. Third, there is a rising interest in women’s sports, especially cricket, which is possibly a result of the growing gender equality movement in recent times. The fourth and most important factor, I would say, is social media. When you see so many people posting links and status updates about our women’s team doing so well, it’s easy to get caught up in the frenzy and become a fan.”
 The team’s good run so far has got city athletes excited as well. Professional billiards player, Padma Shri   tweeted about the importance of team work after India’s win over Australia in the semi-finals. He elaborates, “All through the tournament, it has not been the story of just one Indian player carrying the team on her shoulders. Instead, it has been different players in different matches stepping up and delivering, be it in batting, bowling or fielding. That kind of depth has definitely worked in India’s favour. Beating a dominant, reigning champion in the semis can be a huge confidence boost, so more than England, India’s biggest challenge is their own mindset — if they consider the final as just another game, and enjoy the hype around it instead of feeling the pressure, they stand a great chance to create history.” 
 Pro-golfer   says, “The team has been fabulous and their performance has been inspiring. They’ve managed to get me hooked to cricket after a long time, and I can’t wait to watch the final with my golfer friends. As a female sportsperson, I’d say the coverage and interest levels in women’s sports has definitely gone up, but there’s a lot more that can be done. Viewership and interest in women’s sports will go up only when they are telecast more, so broadcasters need to change their mindset of choosing to relay a sport only if it has high viewership.”
 While the excitement surrounding India’s final outing is palpable, unfortunately, it isn’t big enough for city pubs and restaurants to make arrangements for screening, with no live screenings. But that won’t deter fans from having their own private viewing parties. Finance student Smrithi Surana, who has been following the World Cup right from the beginning and will be having her friends over to watch the match, feels that the final will be more about mental strength and composure than mere physical talent. “Both teams have worked their way up the tournament through a lot of hard work and are balanced equally when it comes to skill and talent. What will set the winning team apart is their mental composure. Psychologically, both teams have something in favour of each of them winning — England has won the World Cup both times they hosted it in the past (1973 and 1993), while India has already defeated England (by 35 runs) when they met earlier in the tournament. Both countries are well-deserved finalists, so the match will be an exciting prospect. We can’t wait for it.”
 
 
 
 Sudeep, who has been in London with Shivarajkumar for a schedule of The Villain, will cap off his trip by heading to Lord’s to watch the Women in Blue take on England in the final, and, hopefully, witness history being made. “ Wrappd a gud schedule. All excited to witness th Indian women’s world cup cricket finals at Lords on Sunday.Can’t miss this proud moment,” he tweeted.
 
