Vadodara: A fresh controversy surfaced at MS University on Monday when university’s   and a students’ group came face to face over an ‘aarti’ programme that was organised by the students group at the Donors Plaza ground. 

 Sources suggest that the students group which identifies itself as Bhagwa Hindu Sena had organised a programme to do ‘aarti’ of ice ‘shivling’ of Lord Shiva near Faculty of Law building in which it had invited students from various faculties.
 
 The university’s vigilance staff which reached the spot stopped the students group from organising such programme on the grounds that university does not provide permissions to hold such religious programmes at the campus. After the vigilance staff and the student leaders came face to face, police was also called in. High drama unfolded as students group continued their ‘aarti’ and refused to listen to the vigilance staff and the police that had reached the spot. 
 
 “Do we require police permission for doing puja at our own campus,” said Priyanka Patel, the former vice-president of MSU Students Union, who had also reached at the ground to join the ‘aarti’ programme. 
 
 “We have told the police that we are neither using loudspeakers nor creating any kind of law and order situation and hence we should be allowed to do such aarti at the campus,” she said. P P Kanani, head of university’s vigilance staff however told TOI that as per university rules, religious functions cannot be held at the campus. 
 
 “We asked the students group whether they had prior permission from the police to hold such a programme. They showed us the receipt of the application which they had submitted but did not have any permission,” he said. 
 
 The university also condemned the actions of the students group. “University does not give permissions to hold religious functions or programmes of any kind to any institute, group or individuals,” it said while terming the programme as an act to spoil the academic atmosphere of the campus. 
 
 Ironically, while some faculties are not allowing students group from holding such programmes, at Faculty of Commerce, a students’ group organised a ‘katha’ but there was nobody to stop them. Such programmes have become a rage amongst student outfits ahead of the MSU Students Union polls.
 
 
