BATALA: A boy, aged one and a half years, died on Thursday while more than 24 persons, most of them children, were taken ill after consuming ‘karha parshad’ from a local gurdwara in this town of Gurdaspur district.

 According to reports, panic struck the industrial town after many children and adults who had consumed it reported of uneasiness and giddiness on Wednesday. All had gone to pay obeisance at Gurdwara Guru Teg Bahadur in Guru Nanak Nagar.
 
  SSP Deepak Hilori told TOI that toddler Baljit Singh died on Thursday after consuming ‘karha parshad’ from the gurdwara. He stated that the police were procuring the CCTV footage of the gurdwara and had rounded up granthi Paramjit Singh for investigations and registered a case in the matter.
 
 Many men and women also reported of uneasiness and irritation in the throat after eating it. Gurjit Kaur, mother of Baljit, said she often visited the gurdwara, where they were offered dry parshad. “But on Wednesday we were given ‘karha parshad,’ which everyone ate,” she said. Gurjit further said that after midnight she found her son struggling to breathe and was feeling uneasy, following which her family took him to the Batala civil hospital, where his life couldn’t be saved.
 
 Another seven-year-old boy Ranvir Singh was referred to Amritsar for medical treatment after his condition deteriorated.
 
 BOX: Weapon recovered in   worker’s murder case 
 
 Gurdaspur: The SSP, Jasdeep Singh, said here on Wednesday that police had recovered the murder weapon with which Gurbachan Singh Khalsa was allegedly shot dead by a retired Army officer Surjit Singh and his son Sunit Singh. “We have initiated proceedings to stop his pension, seal his house and freeze his bank accounts,” he said. In a political rivalry, Gurbachan, an Akali worker, was shot dead by Congress supporter Colonel Surjit on March 13, two days after the results of   assembly elections were declared. The police have so far arrested one person while the father-son duo is still on the run.
 
