MUMBAI: A fresh report by the   on the progress of the inquiry in the June 23 death of Byculla women’s jail inmate   attributed her death to multiple contusions and prima facie mentioned the complicity of six accused jail police officials. But, observing that the facts so far “don’t augur well in the manner with which the probe is proceeding”, the Bombay high court on Monday directed a   to inquire into the cause of death. 

 A bench of Justice R M Savant and Justice Sadhana Jadhav directed the city crime branch to furnish all investigation records to the metropolitan magistrate. The state said the jailer had sent a letter to the local magistrate about Shetye’s death on July 6.
 
 Section 176 (1A) of the CrPC provides for an independent inquiry by a magistrate in addition to a police investigation to find out the cause of death of a person in custody. But the law requires that a magistrate be informed within 24 hours and the court asked the additional government pleader Mankuwar Deshmukh if it was done. The FIR was filed on June 24. The government lawyer said that a wireless message was sent to various authorities, including the “district magistrate”, for the inquest panchanama. 
 
 The court said it was “not impressed” by the justifications the state now sought to give. “Do not shirk the responsibility on the magistrate. A magistrate cannot suo motu conduct an inquiry under unless information is given. You approached the magistrate on July 6. You had first mentioned it as an accidental death, even at the first hearing of the PIL in court…You are trying to just justify everything that you have done. Have you given a copy of the videograph to the magistrate…It is only because we asked for the papers that you have produced them,” the judges orally observed at various points of the hearing attended by DCP (detection) Dilip Sawant, investigating officer Prabha Raul and other officers, including from the jail. The judges also voiced their “suspicion” that the “purported July 6 letter to the magistrate” was “done deliberately”.
 
 The bench observed that barring a copy of the FIR against six jail officials and the post-mortem report, no documents were given to the magistrate who the state is now saying would be doing an inquiry. “How can the inquiry be conducted?’’ the bench asked. 
 
 The court was hearing a PIL filed by a Malad resident Pradeep Bhalaker for a CID inquiry into the jail death.
 
  His lawyer Nitin Satpute said JJ Hospital doctor Vishwas Roke, who issued the death card, was employed on a temporary basis for 120 days. “If that be so, it is difficult to fathom how he can be suspended,” the HC said in its order on Monday. The state in its report on the inquiry said an enquiry is being held to see if there was dereliction of duty on the part of the doctor.
 
 The bench warned that “non-compliance” of its order “will be viewed seriously and action will be taken against erring officers”.
 
 The court reminded the state how it was “very perturbed” by the ‘death information card’ which recorded ‘no visible injury’ on Manjula’s body though the PM report had mentioned multiple contusions. The court had at an earlier hearing kept a copy of the PM report in a sealed cover and on Monday sought a copy of the inquest panchanama too to be kept with the HC registrar in a sealed cover.
 
