NOIDA: Eight months after he fled from police custody, the prime accused in   youth wing functionary Vijay Pandit’s murder case was arrested by the special task force of the   on Monday after a brief shootout in Noida’s phase II area. 

 Avanesh alias Anni, a sharp shooter of the Sunder Bhati gang, escaped from police custody in June last year after he offered cops accompanying him to a Surajpur court sweets spiked with sedatives.
 
 Acting on a tip-off, a two-member STF team intercepted Anni and his relative Umesh around 12.40 pm while they were going to meet their accomplices in Ilabaas village in Noida’s phase II area. “Anni suddenly took out a pistol and fired five rounds at the STF men who retaliated by firing back four rounds at him, in which he sustained a gunshot injury in his right leg. His relative, however, fled from the spot. Anni is currently undergoing treatment at the district hospital,” said Raj Kumar Mishra, DSP of STF (Noida).
 
 A pistol and two live cartridges have been recovered from Anni’s possession. Mishra said Anni was hatching a plot to eliminate Pandit’s wife Geeta, who had taken to streets to protest her husband’s murder, and Ravi, the main witness in the murder case of Dadupur village headman Harender Pradhan. “Anni was gathering arms to execute his plan before Holi,” he said.
 
 Earlier, Anni was arrested by a team of local police in June 2014, along with three other accused in the Pandit murder case. Back then, police had claimed to have solved the case by ascribing the murder to an old fued. But subsequently cops had found out that, on September 12, 2012, Pandit's acquaintance Ravinder Sharma was allegedly murdered in Dadri area and that the BJP leader was pursuing the case.
 
 According to cops, Arun alias Alli, the main conspirator in the Pandit murder case, was also an accused in the murder of Sharma, a case in which Pandit was apparently motivating the witnesses to fight for justice. Police said it was Alli who had hatched the conspiracy to kill Pandit to avoid conviction, and while he was in a Bulandshahr jail, he had met Anni and gave him the contract to kill Pandit.
 
 Pandit was allegedly shot at by Anni and Ankit Gurjar, another sharpshooter of Sunder Bhati gang. Ankit, too, had escaped from police custody last year, but was nabbed again.
 
 The DGP had announced a reward of Rs 30, 000 on Anni’s head. He has 29 cases registered against him including four robberies and two murders. With his arrest, STF said all the accused in the Pandit murder case are either under arrest or in jail.
 
 
