CHENNAI: Leader of the opposition and DMK working president M K  , PMK founder leader S Ramadoss, CPM MP T K Rangarajan and other leaders have strongly condemned police action against pro-jallikattu protesters in Chennai and other places on Monday. 

 Police used teargas and lathicharged the protesters after they refused to call off the stir despite the   government passing an ordinance paving way for holding  .
 
 In a statement, Stalin condemned the state government for its ‘dictatorial and undemocratic attitude’ of using police force to end the students’ ‘peaceful’ protest against the ban on jallikattu instead of opting for resolving the impasse through peace talks.
 
 Stalin, while lambasting the state government for failing to handle the issue in an effective manner, said the students decided to continue the protests because chief minister O Panneerselvam neglected his pleas to hold discussions with them to brief them on the passing of an ordinance and efforts taken by the government to organise jallikattu. The chief minister also ignored my plea to take students' representatives while meeting the Prime Minister, he said.
 
 The DMK leader said the chief minister instead straightway declared that he would inaugurate jallikattu event in Madurai and directed his ministerial colleagues to launch the event in various districts without ensuring any safety and precautionary measure to gain 'political mileage.' 
 
 The chief minister’s reluctance to meet the protesting students and decision to use police force to put an end to the agitation undermined the peaceful protests by the students and youth in preserving Tamil tradition and culture.
 
 Stalin questioned why chief minister ordered police to lathicharge the students, who sought only two hours’ time (to disperse). He urged the chief minister to meet the protesting students and assure them that there would not be any further ban on jallikattu by outlining the initiatives undertaken by the government.
 
 In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Rangarajan sought his urgent intervention in the jallikattu issue and urged Union government to give an assurance for amending the act concerned to remove bulls from the list of animals that are not to be exhibited. 
 
 “In the meantime police are using force to disperse the crowd, which is aggravating the situation. At this juncture the central government’s assurance regarding the amendment in the current parliamentary session would help to solve the crisis,” he said.
 
 CPM state secretary G Ramakrishnan sought the government to hold discussions with them to resolve the issue besides initiating efforts to pass a permanent bill to ensure the conduct of jallikattu in future without any hurdle.
 
 Ramadoss condemned the police action declared that the peaceful protest of the students and youth had created history by forcing the state government to pass an ordinance, which did not see the light for the last two years. He said those who attempted to gain political mileage using students’ protests but were snubbed by the students have launched efforts to mislead the protests. 
 
 “In such a situation police must have handled the students; protest in a sensitive manner. Police must have held peace talks with the students and explained them about the ground reality and dispersed them. However, police refused to do so,” Ramadoss said in a statement.
 
 PMK called off jallikattu events proposed on the Republic Day (January 26) across the state after the Tamil Nadu government passed an ordinance.
 
 
