CHANDIGARH:   have withdrawn the security cover given to   supremo Om Prakash Chautala’s family in Haryana. Sources in the Punjab government said that the security wing of Punjab Police had provided around 36 security guards, who used to guard their houses and farmhouses in Sirsa, Chandigarh and Delhi.

 While the police top brass was tightlipped over the decision, the Parkash Singh Badal-led Punjab government has withstood political attacks over providing security to Chautalas for years. As Punjab home minister, Sukhbir Badal has even promised to review the police security being provided to “outsiders” after Ponty Chadha’s murder in 2012. But there was no move to call back the cops deployed in Haryana.
 
 The powerful political families of Haryana and Punjab — Chautalas and Badals — have long standing ties. Prakash Singh Badal was a close friend to “Tau” Devi Lal and relations continued to grow among the next generations. Both families were seen standing for each other during worst times with Devi Lal even performing “kanyadan” when Parkash Singh Badal’s daughter Parneet Kaur got married to Adesh Pratap Singh Kairon as the Akali stalwart was in jail at that time.
 
 Security cover to Chautalas was being provided by the Patiala unit of the   (PAP). They had also been provided escort vehicles.
 
 Sources said that Punjab Police officers had planned to withdraw the security after the polling in Punjab on February 4, but were under pressure no to do so. The decision was apparently taken on Thursday night. Incidentally, it was on Thursday that INLD leaders had courted arrests on the Punjab-Haryana border on the issue of digging of SYL canal.
 
 On Friday, PAP vehicles were sent to bring back the security guards from Sirsa and Delhi. They had been sent back to the PAP battalion in Patiala.
 
 Meanwhile, none of the members of Chautala family were accessible for their comments on the issue. Former CM’s younger son Abhay Chautala and his son Arjun Chautala are in police custody at Patiala. Elder son Ajay Chautala is lodged in Tihar jail. Ajay’s sons Hisar MP Dushyant and Digvijay are on their way back from the US.
 
 Sources in the INLD said they had no knowledge of the matter and asked TOI to get in touch with the Punjab Police to seek comments.
 
 An INLD leader said, “Why would Abhay Chautala require security cover from Punjab when he already has it as the leader of opposition in Haryana. He has the rank of a cabinet minister and has been provided security by Haryana Police.”
 
 Punjab ADGP (security) B K Bawa while declining to comment on the issue said, “I am occupied somewhere else, please call later.”
 
