

 Among major improvements in its approach, SPPU plans to boost its perception through social media. “Out of the five parameters that the National Institutional Ranking Framework ( ) was based on, it was ‘perception’ that hampered our overall rating. SPPU has the potential to be in the top five institutions. Today, presentation and responses count a lot, especially through social media. So far, we were not very active on this platform. There are many negative comments on the social media which have been there for years. If those would’ve been dealt with in time, our score might’ve improved. It is important to be in sync with the world trends and from now on, we will be focussing on publicity, marketing and social media outreach to better the varsity’s overall performance,” says Gade.
 
 Surprisingly,   International University ranks 61st in the universities and 97th in the overall list. Vidya Yeravdekar, principal director, Symbiosis Society, informs, “We were under the impression that Pune is synonymous with Symbiosis, but after the NIRF ranking, we understand that’s not so. We are examining where we are lacking in marketing and will be working on it.”
 
  
  
 Ravindra Pardeshi, principal, Fergusson College, says, “There are certain criteria to be met — the percentage of placement, competitiveness, academics, public and peer perception etc. We are happy about being placed 35th in the rankings but there are many other surveys too, conducted by other agencies, where we are placed amongst the top-10   of the country. Right now, we are comparing our scores with other colleges and identifying our shortcomings. We will definitely try to better the ranking next year.”
 
  
  
 Out of the 724 participating institutions, only 20 were from Pune. Less participation by city- based institutions in the ranking process have reflected on the final scale as well. Though the city is considered the Oxford of the East, there are hardly three traditional colleges, two management colleges and four each of engineering and pharmacy colleges that appeared in the top-100 colleges list in the respective categories. There were only 20 institutions from the city out of the total of 724 in the NIRF. 
 
  According to Gade, “Most of the colleges under SPPU have been awarded good grades by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC), but the low participation in the NIRF has resulted in lesser institutions on the list. A lot of the city’s colleges have all the attributes to feature in the top-100 colleges of the country, and next time, hopefully, they will prepare and participate in the respective categories.”
 
 
 
 Many outstation and foreign students enroll for courses at city colleges every year, and a good ranking for the university means even more students will prefer studying in the city.
 “This was our first year of participation and we ended up 10th across universities. The ranking plays an important role in getting good faculty and students,” feels Gade.
 
 
 
 These rankings play a very vital role in getting more students to join the university. SPPU being ranked 10th is a big achievement. I feel the various facilities, including a biotechnology department and research space, have contributed to the ranking.”
 
 
 Teachers, especially the visiting faculty, should be a lot more involved in the teaching process in college. There’s also a lack of interaction between the teachers, which if done, could facilitate an exchange of ideas. Maybe some training courses for the teachers to better their methods could also help. 
 
 
 It's good to know that the Maharashtra Institute of Technology (MIT) has made it to the engineering category list. A suggestion would be for the institute to encourage its faculty members to be up-to-date with emerging trends and technology and incorporate the same in their teaching methods. I've also observed the difficulties students face when they come for admission. An institute's hospitality largely contributes to the perceptions one would have about it. Admissions could be more streamlined and student-friendly. 
 
 
 
 
 
