NAGPUR: A   was organized on Monday evening by Shri Swami Math, Malviya Nagar, on the occasion of pragat din celebrations of Shri Swami Samarth and   Moreover, this was the tenth year of the founding of shri Swami Seva Mandal. So unlike every year, where an artiste performs classical music at the temple premises, a jugalbandi was conducted for the first time on the occasion. Violinist Shirish Bhalerao and flautist Arvind Upadhye, joined forces to put forth a soulful performance. They were supported on Tabla by Dr Devendra Yadav.

 “It is a jugalbandi, but we would like to call this performance as ‘sah-vaadan’ (performing together. The word Jugalbandi feels more like a competition,” said Upadhye. The talented duo began with rendition of a bada khyal, chota khyal and dhrut in raag Yaman. Their music complemented each other and the melodies flowed with ease. Set up of the programme, in the premises of the temple, added serenity to the ambience and devotees and visitors alike kept pouring in. Bhalerao and Upadhye then played a thumri in raag Mishra Pilu, and ended the programme with raag Bhairavi.
 
 “Shirish and I have been friends since a long time, and have performed Jugalbandis in the past. We perform directly on stage without prior practice because over the years, our understanding of each other’s styles and scales have matched. He is more into vocals, whereas I’m into instrumental music form. The ragas we chose yesterday were according to our mood from the range of beautiful evening ragas,” Upadhye added. 
 
 The music event was first organized in 2007, where Ajit Kakade had performed. In 2008, Anuradha Podwal performed at the premises. Noted artistes such as Vaishali Sawant, Ravindra Sathe and others have also performed ‘seva.’ Artistes come frequently and play music in the temple at intervals, said Ajay Kolhapurkar, president of  . “The temple is a sadhana sthal (place of discipline). Music is the only way to instantly experience spirituality and form a connection with god,” he added.
 
 
