JAIPUR: The   of   on Sunday arrested two people in connection with the killing of an   near Shyam Nagar area of the city on Friday morning.

 Addressing a press conference, additional commissioner of police (first) Prafull Kumar and deputy commissioner of police (Crime Branch) Dr. Vikas Pathak said two accused, Vivek Pandey and Krishna Gopal, have been arrested in connection with the crime, whereas the third accused Sanjeev has been nabbed from Uttar Pradesh.
 
 “The trio wanted to loot a manufacturing firm in which they were working five months ago. To get ahead with their plans, they needed a vehicle. They booked a cab from UBER and shot driver Nand Ram,” said Vikas Pathak.
 
 The police sent a high alert to state police control room soon after the shooting was reported. A massive search operation was launched across the city and barricades were set up in areas where the crime took place.
 
 Seeing the unprecedented police presences, the trio dumped the taxi near Mangiyawas and fled. “Based on technical information and ground intelligence reports, the crime branch zeroed in on three suspects, Vivek Pandey, Krishna Gopal and Sanjeev. While Pandey and Gopal were arrested after interrogation, Sanjeev fled to Etawa in UP and was later apprehend,” Pathak told TOI.
 
 The DCP said that Nand Lal Gujar, who was rushed to Jaipuria hospital, succumbed to his bullet injuries and died on Sunday afternoon.
 
 “The criminals had fired two shots at him. The first bullet missed Nand Lal and went through the car’s glass, another bullet hit his stomach and he fell down,” Pathak, who led the investigation team, told TOI.
 
 The sources within crime branch told TOI that trio was planning to rob the taxi and loot their former boss, “The trio’s real target was their former boss, they wanted to loot his house and fled from the city, but got stuck in firing case failed to get ahead with their plans,” Pathak.
 
 The duo are being interrogated by the police at Shyam Nagat police station while Sanjev is being brought to Jaipur from Uttar Pradesh.
 
