MUMBAI: The Supreme Court has come to the rescue of a family which could not develop its own residential property in JVPD because of last year’s Bombay high court ban on new constructions in Mumbai.

 Last week, the apex court granted permission to the Goenkas to restart   on a plot in Nutan Laxmi housing society in Vile Parle. The family had bought the bungalow plot for Rs 63 crore two years ago and planned to redevelop it into a family residence. The Supreme Court order applies only to the Goenkas’ project.
 
 Last year, the high court stopped all new constructions from March 1, 2016 after the state government and the BMC failed to solve the problem of the polluting dumping grounds. 
 
 The court pulled them up for their inability to treat and dispose of municipal solid waste.
 
 Since the past one year, all new housing society redevelopment projects in Mumbai are at a standstill, except those involving redevelopment of old and dilapidated buildings in the island city and slum rehabilitation schemes.
 
 The Goenkas, who started constructing a building for its own expanding family, were badly hit by the order.
 
 The family razed the bungalow and started constructing a ground-plus-seven-storey building.
 
 But the BMC refused to sanction further building permissions to the Goenkas because of the high court order.
 
 Amit Goenka and his family then approached the high court for  . But the high court dismissed the petition last September, forcing the Goenkas to file a special leave petition in the supreme court.
 
 The family said it purchased the 664 sq m plot much before the high court stayed new constructions in the city.
 
 “The property was purchased with an intention to provide residence for the family of the petitioners, consisting of about 15 members. The redevelopment is therefore not a commercial project aimed to earn profits, but is a private activity aimed to provide residence for the family,’’ said the Goenkas in its SLP.
 
 The petitioners said the family shifted temporarily to a tenanted property after the bungalow was demolished. But “in view of the blanket preventive order, they are constrained to continue to reside in the tenanted property, and prevented from enjoying the subject Property, which has been lawfully purchased for a considerable sum’’.
 
 Last Friday, a division bench of Justice S A Bobde and Justice L N Rao granted permission looking at the facts and circumstances placed by the petitioners.
 
 The family gave an undertaking that it would recycle the building   instead of carting it away to the dumping ground. The debris generated during construction is approximately 5% of the total construction volume. The family said the construction site would be a ‘zero garbage zone’ as it would include a provision of an internal waste disposal plant which is compliant with the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. “This would not add or contribute to the existing problem of municipal solid waste disposal in Mumbai. The plan proposed by the petitioners for disposal of solid waste is in consonance with the stated objectives of the BMC itself with respect to reduction of municipal solid waste in Mumbai,’’ said the petition.
 
 BOX: December 16, 2015: The Goenkas purchased the property for self-use as residence for 15 members of the family
 
 February 26 and 29, 2016: Bombay HC halts all new construction from March 1, 2016. It said increase in Floor Space Index (FSI) and grant of permission for large-scale construction by BMC contributed towards increase in the municipal solid waste generated
 
 July 16, 2016: The Goenkas approach the Bombay high court, seeking directions allowing them to complete their building
 
 September 22, 2016: High court dismisses the petition, stating that if the Goenkas are allowed permission, it would open up the floodgates for other litigants. Family moves Supreme Court
 
 April 28, 2017: Apex court clears the project for further construction given the facts and circumstances of the case
 
 
