MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Wednesday dropped   proceedings against municipal commissioner  , taking note that orders sanctioning and regularizing   constructions by a corporator’s husband have been revoked.

 A bench of Justices Abhay Oka and Anuja Prabhudessai withdrew the showcause notice issued to Mehta on October 10 for civil and criminal contempt of court for regularizing illegal constructions by the husband of Congress   Binita Vora from Vile Parle (W).
 
 The notices were issued after the HC was told that despite its June 17 judgement and order to demolish the unauthorised structures, Mehta sanctioned them and subsequently regularized them. The June 17 judgement was passed in a petition by Shiv Sainik, Jitendra Janavale, whose wife Aarti lost against Vora in the 2012 civic polls. Janavale’s petition said Vora incurred disqualification as her husband, Mehul, built the outhouse of their bungalow into a commercial showroom.
 
 The judges took note of Mehta’s apology, in which he said he was unaware of the judgement and that he had taken action against erring officers. “Considering that now the orders granting sanction and regularization have been withdrawn, it is not necessary to continue the criminal and civil contempt against the municipal commissioner,’’ the bench said. It added that “as of today, the additions and alterations’’ made by Mehul and “change of user is not regularized”.
 
 Mehul was granted liberty to file a fresh application for regularization of the additions and alterations made to the bungalow and outhouse at Vile Parle.   was directed to take a decision within 60 days and communicate it to Mehul’s architect. If the application is rejected, the demolition is not be to carried out for a month. 
 
 Opposing leniency to the unauthorised structures, Janavale’s advocate, Sagar Rane, said, “Public perception is that if you are a corporator, you can very well get away.” The bench directed that Janavale be intimated so that he can file objections to be considered by BMC while deciding Mehul’s application. “We make it clear that subject to what is observed, BMC is under obligation to abide by the (June 17) judgement,’’ it added. The court directed that disqualification proceedings in the small causes court against Vora shall be expeditiously decided and cannot be stayed or adjourned as a fresh application for regularisation is filed.
 
 
