Lucknow: After three days of strike in several districts,   sellers have decided to hold a silent protest across the state against the BJP government’s crackdown on illegal slaughterhouses and unlicensed outlets. 

 Iqbal Qureshi, the president of Meat Murga Vyapari Kalyan Samiti, UP, said the meat sellers had decided to hold a silent protest across the state on Thursday. Poor families of meat sellers are starving, so they will march in protest, Qureshi said. 
 
 Shops selling mutton and chicken remained closed in Lucknow, Moradabad, Meerut, Sitapur, Jhansi, and Barabanki for the third consecutive day on Monday. Shops, however, remained open in places like Varanasi and Allahabad. 
 
 In Allahabad, deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya said the government was ready to find alternative sources of livelihood for those hit by the crackdown, but would not buckle under any pressure.
 
 “The agitation against ban on illegal slaughterhouses and meat sellers will not have any impact on the government. The state will continue to take action against illegal slaughterhouses. The government is ready to find jobs for the people who have lost their livelihood due to closure of slaughterhouses. We are only implementing the existing law,” he said.
 
 Maurya said the National Security Act would be enforced against those engaged in smuggling or killing bovines. “The NSA will be enforced against people engaged in smuggling bovine or killing them. DMs and SSPs will be held responsible if there is any negligence in implementing the law.”
 
 Reiterating the BJP government’s stand on liquor ban in the state, he said, “The government has no plans, but action will be taken against any model shop situated within 500 metres of temples.”
 
 In Bareilly, the local traders blamed the previous SP government for the present crisis in the meat industry as it did not comply with the National Green Tribunal's (NGT) order on modernizing abattoirs run by the state government. There are 20 slaughterhouses in Bareilly district that have shut operations after the present government ordered compliance of the old ruling.
 
 In Meerut, a BJP worker and well-known gaurakshak was beaten up by Bajrang Dal workers for his alleged involvement in running an illegal meat packaging unit in Jai Bheem Nagar locality on Sunday evening. Rahul Thakur, who leads Krishna Gaurakshak Dal, was thrashed by Bajrang Dal activists when he turned up at a meat packaging unit to witness what was meant to be ‘secret operation’. Bajrang Dal activists were raiding the unit following a tip-off that it was allegedly packaging buffalo meat illegally
 
 
