COIMBATORE: Former vice-chancellor of Anna University and the man behind the launch of   satellite, R M Vaasagam inaugurated the Coimbatore chapter for Indian Society of System for Science and Engineering ( ) at the   on Friday. The city is the 10th chapter in the country. 

 Inaugurating the chapter, Vaasagam, who is the alumnus of the college's 1963 batch, said, "Coimbatore is an ideal place to begin this chapter. It has the right blend of people- industries, academia and research and development institutes. There are already 900 members in the chapter. This should increase quickly." 
 
 Speaking about the system department, the former VC, who is a systems engineer himself said, "A Japanese scientist called Hideo Itokawa, who was Vikram Sarabhai's friend was the one who started the systems department in  ." 
 
 The director of Satish Dhawan Centre, ISRO, Sriharikota, P Kunhikrishnan was also present for the inauguration. He is also the national director of ISSE. "We started in Thiruvananthapuram and then took some time to stabilise things. I am happy with the overwhelming response that we have got from the people here," he said. "More than 10 organisations have offered participation in the society, including defence, industries and academia," he added. 
 
 The principal of PSG College of Technology, R   was appointed as the chapter's president and the principal of Coimbatore Institute of Technology, V Selladurai will be the vice-president. "We have the heads of city's two best institutes to lead the society. I am sure that they will help in bringing out great systems," Kunhikrishnan said. 
 
 Rudramoorthy said, "Today, we are moving into a world where innovation is inter-disciplinary. However, unfortunately our education system does not allow us to pursue inter-disciplinary education. We have to define ourselves in one discipline," he said, adding that this society will help bring together people with different backgrounds." 
 
 The chapter's vice-president, Selladurai said, "This chapter has been started at the right time as we have got smart city project for Coimbatore. Such avenues will build up opportunities for the chapter to come out with ideas to design systems."
 
