BATHINDA: Clad in his signature sleeveless jacket and copiously quoting Alama Iqbal and Ostrovksy in a bustling Civil Lines of Bathinda Urban constituency,   gives all the impression of a rebel from the ruling Badal clan.

 He is one: Just ahead of the 2012 assembly elections in the state, Manpreet had in 2011 taken up the cudgels against his own, all-powerful “tayaji“ -Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal.
 
 Six years on, Manpreet is the cynosure of the Congress, and the one in whom party vice president   is seeing hopes of “young blood“.
 
 Manpreet's meetings with Rahul, occasionally on the sidelines of the founder's day of their alma mater The Doon School and St Stephen's took him to pen a 109page manifesto, the one that has become the talk of towns and brought Manpreet closer to the Gandhi family. “It was one of the most productive time of my life, when I worked for five years in PPP and finally merged it in the Congress after six years. At the time of merger, we presented an 11-point charter to the Congress on why we had formed PPP -to finish VVIP culture, end policeneta nexus, and take Punjab out of debt. I am thankful to the Congress for letting me accomodate in the manifesto what we were trying to articulate in PPP. Entire mani festo of PPP has been incoroprated in toto,“ says Manpreet.
 
 “Manifesto also brought me closer to Congress leaders like former Punjab CM Rajinder Kaur Bhattal. We toured to meet roadside vendors, knitwear-manufacturers, fur nace-owners, used car-owners, jewellers, stock market traders, dry fruit traders and rice millers for days and days,“ he adds.
 
 After having two dilligent yet failed starts -one when his debutant People's Party of Punjab (PPP) failed to win a seat in 2012 and second when he lost by a small margin of 19,000 votes against his sister-in-law Harsimrat Kaur from Bathinda Lok Sabha seat in 2014, Manpreet doesn't hide his emotions. “The way Harsimrat and CM are making frequent visits to Bathinda comes from the fact that they have staggering hatred for me. That's because I dared to rebel. I dared to contest against the CM's daughter-in-law. They will try every trick up their sleeve to beat me again. It (my victory) is up to the people,“ he insists.
 
 But he doesnt harbour malice when it comes to PPP rebels. While former colleague Bhagwant Mann is AAP's star in Punjab, Dev Mann is shaping up well and Kiki Dhillon is fighting for Congress.
 
 “I am proud of the fact that they all are products of my school of politics.
 
 I wish them good luck in their ca reers,“ he says.
 
