MUMBAI:   on Friday directed   Rail Corporation Ltd (MMRCL) to show if it had clearances from the ministry of environment and forests (MoEF) for proposed Metro III stations of Hutatma Chowk, Churchgate and  .

 “We want MoEF clearance certificates for each of the stations. We have to be satisfied,” said a bench headed by the chief justice. It passed the direction after it was told that MoEF had refused permission for constructing three stations in   as they fall under the coastal regulatory zone. The court is hearing petitions challenging the proposed cutting of nearly 5,000 trees for the Colaba-Andheri Seepz line. It last month stayed the cutting of trees till further orders.
 
 Senior advocate Janak Dwarkadas, appearing for a petitioner, said MoEF’s rejection was “discovered’’ on inspecting records. Regarding the Cuffe Parade site, he added, “MoEF said it is a children’s park. You cannot have a station here. They ignored. They went to the tree authority and took permission and 100 trees were cut.” Dwarkadas argued that the court must appoint an independent expert committee, saying there was “complete and total abdication by MMRCL and tree authority of their statutory functions’’.
 
 Senior advocate Aspi Chinoy, representing MMRCL, said it has “requisite permission’’ and regarding the Cuffe Parade site, “the station is only in the area reserved in the development plan for a road”. Chinoy earlier said that the tracks and stations will be completely underground, except for access and ancillary services. He said 90-95% will be restored as vacant flat area. He also said uprooted trees will be restored and replanted at the same place or in the vicinity; this will be in addition to statutory requirements of planting thrice the trees cut for any project. “This is our unequivocal undertaking to the court,” said Chinoy. 
 
 Chinoy also said “the cost will be enormous and delay will be enormous’’ due to the HC’s stay on the project. “We are aware of the project’s importance but we are also aware of the environment’s importance. If they have apprehensions that an impact assessment study is not done, it goes to the root of the matter,’’ said the bench, posting the hearing on March 16.
 
