MUMBAI: Day one of the   trial at a sessions court hit an unusual roadblock even before it really took off. Proceedings began without star witness Shyamwar Rai but contained parts of his confessional statement, prompting objections from the defence. Lawyers for the accused,  , his wife   and her former husband Sanjeev Khanna, immediately opposed, on law points, the depositions of sub-inspector Ganesh Dalvi of Khar police station.

 The objections led to a brief halt and then to an adjournment of the trial to March 16 to enable an appeal against continued deposition of the first prosecution witness in the high court.
 
 Dalvi, the first witness produced by   (CBI) special prosecutor Bharat Badami, stated how he had recorded the FIR in the murder case. He spoke of being on patrol duty on Carter Road when he noticed Rai, who on seeing cops began running. Dalvi said he got suspicious and caught Rai. Dalvi said a pistol and bullets were recovered from a bag Rai carried. He was arrested in a case under the Arms Act for illegal possession of a fire arm on August 21, 2015. 
 
 While interrogating Rai, Dalvi said the former driver of Indrani made a “disclosure…’’ As soon as he was about to elaborate, the defence cut him short and objected. Shrikant Shivade, the new defence counsel for Peter stood up and objected to the deposition continuing.
 
 Shivade and Sudeep Pasbola, defence counsel for Indrani, said laws of criminal procedure and evidence did not permit use of statements made to a police officer in the form of a confession. Niranjan Mundergi and Shreyans Mithare lawyers for Khanna, adopted their arguments to oppose continuation of the deposition.
 
 Shivade said the prosecution must clarify if they want to justify Rai’s statements to the police as an accused or as a witness. “Even if his statement is as an accused, as he has ceased to be an accused, they are not admissible as evidence under Section 27 of the Evidence Act. Likewise, if they are as a witness, use of any statement by a witness to a police officer is prohibited in a trial under the Criminal Procedure Code,’’ he said. 
 
 Badami said, “Rai continues to be an accused till he fulfils the conditions, of making a full disclosure, of a pardon granted by court.’’ He said Dalvi’s statement must be taken on record and trial ought to continue as it cannot be delayed further since all accused are in custody.
 
 Special CBI judge H S Mahajan court deferred the matter to decide whether to allow Rai’s confessional statement to be brought on as “evidence’’ through Dalvi’s deposition. The judge, after going through the panchanama—Rai’s statement made to police which contained a confession—underlined a portion of the statement which he held would be admissible. He directed that part of it could be taken on record. The judge said the part where Rai gives details on the kidnapping of Sheena and how he along with Indrani and Khanna had taken Sheena in a car to Bandra and later her body outside the city, could be taken on record as Dalvi’s deposition. Rai’s statement to the police did not mention Peter. 
 
 The judge said, “So far as the panchamana goes, there is information regarding the offence committed. As such impliedly, it’s the base of further investigation which ended in registration of the present offence… You can record spots from where she was kidnapped, killed and her body was disposed and not the name of the accused.”
 
 After the order, Shivade, Pasbola and Mundergi made a joint application for an adjournment to enable an appeal against it in the HC. They said the order would affect other similar ‘panchanamas’ that contain “confessions to cops”. Judge Mahajan granted time till March 16, when unless there is an order in the HC by then, the trial will resume.
 
 
