VARANASI: Of the many gifts   would give to the city during his visit on September 22 and 23, one is `annakshetra' ( ) to set up near Kashi Vishwanath temple.

 The south and north Indian dishes would be cooked as `prasad' of Lord Vishwanath in modular kitchens of the proposed annakshetra on its three floors.
 
 The annakshetra will come on the place where Jammu Kothi of Jammu and Kashmir's royal family existed on   road. After its foundation laying by Modi, annakshetra building will be constructed and made operational by Shrawan in 2018.
 
 Divisional commissioner Nitin Ramesh Gokarn said that after approval of the proposal and design of the building of annakshetra of KVT by the state government, it was decided that the PM will lay its foundation stone during his next visit. A total investment of Rs 13 crore will be made on this project. Construction will start immediately after foundation laying ceremony to make it operational within 11months.
 
 KVT, which has one of the 12 Jyotirlingas of Lord Shiva, was built in 1777 by Maharani Ahilya Bai Holkar of Indore.The KVT's dome was covered with gold donated by Punjab Kesari Maharaja Ranjeet Singh in 1839. Despite being one of the prime Hindu shrines of north India, this temple has no annakshetra. The temple caters `bhog' only to Dandi Swamis at Sanyasi Kaksha (room) located in its premises. The demand for Annakshetra was raised by pilgrims thronging the holy city from across the world for long time. The KVT administration and temple trust had been searching for a suitable land where Annakshetra could be created in the vicinity.
 
 Jammu and Kashmir royal family's Jammu Kothi, which was looked after by a trust headed by Karan Singh, was purchased by the KVT as it fulfilled all criteria for creating Annakshetra.Centuries back, J&K royal family had made Jammu Kothi here for the lodging and fooding facilities for the pilgrims reaching here from Kashmir. The building was lying dilapidated.
 
 Annakshetra will be a three-storeyed building, having solar energy plant with separate lifts for pilgrims and staff. The kitchens will be modular while dining courts will have the capacity of accommodating 1,000 pilgrims at a time. Catering bhog to 15,000 people per day will be possible there. Food will be catered to poor pilgrims and devotees free of cost while for those, who are capable or interested in making payment for the consumption of food, rate list will also be displayed there.
 
 
