Music-composer  's song 'Beat Pe Booty' from 'Flying Jatt', took Bollywood by storm with celebs like Hrithik Roshan, Ekta Kapoor, Mouni Roy, Prabhu Deva, Ganesh Acharya and  , dancing to it after choreographer-director   challenged them to it. Vayu, of the Vayu-Tanishk fame, also has songs like '  Tera Swagger' and the latest chart topper 'Majaa Ni Life' and ' ' from   to his credit. 
In Allahabad recently to meet his bua and mama, Vayu, whose family now lives in  , shared memories of his time spent in the city. "A generation before me lived in UP. I have spent a lot of my childhood in Allahabad. I used to visit the city during summer vacations as my mamaji and buaji live in Allahabad. My elder brother, who works in the telecommunication sector, is living in Kanpur," says Vayu, who has also composed the song 'Twist Kamariya' from 'Bareilly Ki Barfi'.
 Telling us more about what attracts him to Allahabad, Vayu says, "The best thing that I like about Allahabad is that I have my family there. I love the diversity there. It is a growing city which has so much of an old world charm if you go for religious things along with the architecture. Yet, it is tuned in with the modern world so well. It has been a fascinating city with lots of history, variety, and culture mixed together."
 A regular visitor to Lucknow too, Vayu says, "Lucknow toh hamesha se hi mujhe nawabon ka sheher laga hai.   mein hi hamaara zyadatar waqt beet’ta tha jab bhi hum aate thay. Lucknow mujhe bahut bada sheher lagta tha bachpan mein. At one point of time, I was even scared that I will get lost in this big city. I remember the Imambara trips there. You whisper at any corner of the building and har jageh woh sunai dega. And not to forget Lucknow ka khana, uska toh kya kehna hai. Maine zindagi ka pehla kulfi-faluda Lucknow mein khaya tha."
 The mass communication graduate, who started off as a lyricist with  's ' ' in 2009, Vayu says that Bollywood is now more about meaningful lyrics. "The audience today wants something meaningful. People today now have a better understanding of content and that is why content is king today. You need to keep up with the trend and if you want people to accept your words, you need to learn from them and give them something that they like. Today, social media gives you a direct feedback and that too instantly. You get to know immediately what kind of a song you have written and what the junta feels about it. And this has made lyricists and music directors more cautious about content. As writers, we should not forget our responsibility and not write demeaning or offensive lyrics."
 
 Abhishek.Shukla2@timesgroup.com
 
