COIMBATORE: The curtains for the third edition of Coimbatore Book Festival will go up at the Codissia trade fair complex here on Friday. Chairman of the national book trust   will inaugurate the 10-day event being organised by the Coimbatore District   Industries Association (Codissia), with the help of Book Sellers and Publishers Association of South India (BAPASI), Chennai. The book fair will be open from 11am to 8pm every day.

 A total of 170 publishers from Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka, New Delhi and Maharashtra are expected to participate in the event. “In total, there will be 265 stalls,” said a press statement issued by Codissia.
 
 The inauguration ceremony will see renowned writer Jayamohan being conferred on the lifetime achievement award. The main attractions of the event include a literary festival, elocution and drawing competitions for students, skits, debates and drama.
 
 “There will be a literary festival on July 22 and 23 where we will have a congregation of writers, poets and noted personalities from the literary world,” said the chairman of the book festival, S Soundarajan.
 
 The book festival would also feature a   called Arivukkeni. “There will be elocution and drawing competitions for school and college students in English and Tamil. We have reached out to 50,000 students in 200 educational institutions and spread awareness on the significance of reading good books,” Soundararajan said.
 
 Another highlight of the book festival will be the special event to be hosted to commemorate literary icons. “One icon will be remembered each day. It will help bring forgotten writers on the past century in limelight. There will also be entertainment programmes on all days from 6pm,” the chairman of the book festival said.
 
 Soundararajan said they had initiated a movement to set up a library in all industries and about 100 of them have accepted their proposal. “Many industries have given their employees coupons worth Rs 100 each, which can be redeemed at the book festival,” Soundararajan said.
 
 The previous edition witnessed a footfall of 60,000 and generated revenue of Rs 2.5crore.
 
 
