BENGALURU: The three manual scavengers, who met their death inside a manhole at Kaggadasapura on Monday night, were working on the   for laying sewage lines, which, incidentally is being funded by  .

 Chairman of the Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board ( ) Tushar Girinath told TOI that the labourers had not taken safety precautions before entering the pit. “BWSSB engineers involved in the project too are at fault, and we will initiate action against them,” said Girinath, citing an internal enquiry report.
 
 While safety norms prescribe that a neighbouring manhole needs to be kept open, when one is being cleaned, this rule was ignored on Monday. Also, BWSSB engineers were unaware that labourers were entering the manhole. “Ideally, a blower has to be used before starting the cleaning process. A jetting machine was to be used for cleaning. The chief engineer who visited the spot said that attempts were made to divert sewage while cleaning was under way, but these were not successful,” Girinath added.
 
 The scavengers were involved in laying sewage lines between KR Puram and Kadubeesanahalli, work on which began in 2013-14. In 2015, unhappy with the work, BWSSB issued a notice to the contractor. “Rectification notices were issued in 2016 too,” said Girinath, adding that the final payment had not been made.
 
 BWSSB will soon begin an audit of the equipment available at service stations. The agency is also conducting workshops on safety measures and operating procedures. A workshop for BWSSB personnel in the west wing started on Friday. “We will conduct them in all the wings soon,” said the BWSSB chairman.
 
 
 
 
 Contractors hired by BWSSB could be blacklisted, if deaths occur during the execution of projects they are tasked with. This clause will henceforth be included in BWSSB’s contracts. Asked if the contractor entrusted with the work on the Kaggadasapura manhole would be blacklisted, Girinath said, “The contractor will be issued a notice, and penalty will be levied. We are also looking closely at other projects the contractor was involved in,” Girinath said.
 
 Officials from the   for Safai Karamcharis met BWSSB office bearers on Friday to discuss the compensation to be paid to the families of the deceased workers.
 
 
 
 
 The Karnataka government is contemplating a new legislation to protect, and ensure the safety of safai karmacharis (manual scavengers). “Under the provisions of the proposed legislation, scavengers will be allowed to enter manholes only if policemen, fire department personnel, an ambulance and an engineer from the civic agency are present. Machines should be used to clean manholes. Services of scavengers should be used only when absolutely necessary, and under supervision,” said minister H Anjaneya, adding that the BWSSB had paid a compensation of Rs 10 lakh each to the family of the three workers who died after entering a manhole in Kaggadasapura on Monday. 
 
 
