HYDERABAD: It was a tragic end to a love story that tried to defy all odds. Ten days after   committed suicide, police discovered that her husband  , who was missing since May 2, was murdered by her family members, apparently for their family ‘honour’. Rachakonda police on Saturday arrested Swathi’s father Srinivas Reddy and cousin Sathi Reddy for the  .

 Swathi, who was from the Reddy community, had eloped with Naresh, who was from the Rajaka (washermen) community. The couple married in Mumbai on March 27 against the wishes of their families.
 
 Rachakonda police said Srinivas and Sathi Reddy killed Naresh by hitting him on the head with a rod at an agriculture field owned by the former. They kept Naresh’s body between two tyres and set it on fire using petrol, police added. 
 
 During a press conference here, Rachakonda commissioner Mahesh Bhagwat said Swathi had returned from Mumbai along with her husband Naresh on May 2. The couple came after Swathi’s parents convinced her they would accept her marriage and perform it formally as well. 
 
 “During investigation, we came to know that Srinivas and Sathi Reddy found someone clad in white shirt moving under suspicious conditions near their house. While searching, the duo came across Naresh, who did not give a proper reply when questioned. They then forced Naresh on a bike and took him to Srinivas’s field,” Bhagwat said. 
 
 There, they quizzed him about the marriage. Srinivas then hit the victim with an iron rod . Later, he set him ablaze. When the body did not get burnt completely, they bought petrol and set it ablaze again. On May 3, Srinivas collected the remains in a bag and dumped it in the nearby Musi river,” the commissioner said. 
 
 It was after Naresh’s father A Venkataiah lodged a complaint with   Town police that the mystery came to light. As there was inaction from cops, he filed a habeas corpus plea in Hyderabad high court. Even as he suspected the role of Swathi’s father, police did not question him.
 
 But as cops had to trace Naresh and file an affidavit by June 1, on Friday night they took Srinivas into custody. On interrogation, he confessed to his crime. A heart-broken Venkataiah is now seeking death sentence for the culprits.
 
 
