BHOPAL: Geeta, the deaf and mute girl who was brought to India from Pakistan around 18 months ago, is ready to marry and the government will help in the wedding, external affairs minister   Swaraj said on Saturday. And it is her ‘Mama’ (maternal uncle) — chief minister   — who will do the rituals.

 “Geeta will find her groom, and Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan will solemnise the marriage, being the ‘Mama’ of the girl,” Sushma said after meeting Geeta at her home in Bhopal on Saturday in the presence of NDA’s Presidential candidate Ram Nath Kovind and CM Chouhan.
 
 Geeta, who was shifted to a hostel in Indore, had triggered a flutter when she suddenly “disappeared” from her room on Thursday. The hostel administration informed police, who launched a frantic search, and found her on the way to Annapurna Mandir after 45 minutes.
 
 “I informed external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj’s private secretary   about her brief disappearance. The minister is expected to meet Geeta during her visit to Bhopal,” director of Mook-Badhir Sangathan, Monika Punjabi, had said after Geeta was found. It is believed that Geeta, who had come from Pakistan in search of her parents, is disappointed that she hasn’t yet found them. As many as 15 claimants have come forward but Geeta couldn’t identify any of them, said hostel authorities.
 
 After meeting Geeta on Saturday, Sushma rejected reports that she wanted to go back to Pakistan. She said Geeta told her during the meeting that she had gone to the temple and did not try to escape. “Geeta is not unhappy. She went to the temple to offer prayers and is unwilling to go back to Pakistan. If she is ready to get married, we will help her,” said Sushma.
 
 The external affairs minister had played a crucial role in bringing Geeta back to India after 14 years from Pakistan. Geeta looked happy to meet Sushma and asked for a group photograph with her, CM Chouhan and Kovind. Geeta was accompanied by her caretaker, hostel staff and officials of the external affairs ministry, said Rajendra Sikka, assistant of EAM Swaraj. Murlidhar Dhamani, a senior official of the hostel administration, also denied reports of Geeta trying to escape, saying the minister had a detailed chat with her and she did not complain about any unusual happenings.
 
 
