PANAJI: Goa has been allotted Rs 100 crore by the Union ministry for   under phase II of the   Scheme, tourism minister Manohar Azgaonkar announced on Friday. The   will be used for developing the state’s coastal circuit from Panaji to Palolem. 

 The Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) formed by the department of tourism, made a detailed presentation before the central sanctioning and monitoring committee headed by secretary tourism Rashmi Verma following which the project was approved for coastal circuit development in the State, said a tourism department official.
 
 Azgaonkar said that with this plans to improve tourism   under coastal circuits in North and South Goa will get a boost. 
 
 The Swadesh Darshan Scheme is envisaged under the Central Financial Assistance (CFA) of the ministry of tourism with the aim to fund projects that fall under the gamut of touristic potential due to history, heritage, or cultural importance as well as innovation. 
 
 “Goa tourism will continue to work towards conceptualising new plans and projects and will try and tap financial assistance schemes for tourism projects in Goa,” Azgaonkar said.
 
 While the initial allotment of Rs 100 crore under phase I for coastal circuit development is being utilized for developing the coastal belt in North Goa from Sinquerim to Keri, the phase II allotment of Rs 100 crore will be utilized for developing the South Goa coastline from Panaji to Palolem. 
 
 Projects have been envisaged all along the South Goa coastline, however, some of the key coastal areas that attract major footfalls will get a facelift, including Dona Paula, Miramar, Colva, Benaulim and Palolem, said a tourism official. 
 
 Some of the components include providing basic amenities of toilets, lighting, tourist facilitation centres, CCTVs, GIS system, beautification, etc. Majority of the beaches, including prominent ones, lack basic facilities even Goa has been touted as an international tourist destination for over two decades.
 
 Azgaonkar said that guidance and support from chief minister Manohar Parrikar helped in getting the funds sanctioned. 
 
 A meeting of all tourism stakeholders, including sarpanchas of all coastal village panchayats and concerned authorities, to identify areas for setting up of toilets, changing rooms and other public utility facilities at various beaches will be held on top most priority, he added.
 
