PUNE: Chief minister   on Monday said the state government wants the proposed eight-lane, 128km ring road around Pune and   to be developed as an economic corridor by integrating tourism, industrial and agri-based activities.

 Fadnavis said the government would consider both the proposals submitted by the Pune Metropolitan Regional Development Authority (PMRDA) and the Public Works Department (PWD). While executing the project, the state would ensure that there is no overlapping of stretches in the proposals submitted by the two agencies. The CM was speaking to reporters after a PMRDA meeting chaired by him.
 
 Fadnavis said the government had constituted a committee comprising principal secretaries of the urban development department and the PWD, and officials of MSRDC and PMRDA to look into the proposals. This committee will decide on the stretches to be developed in the jurisdiction of respective departments. “The proposed ring road is being designed in such a way that it will have a provision for metro rail,“ he added.
 
 The CM said the main aim of the ring road was to provide better connectivity and have a comprehensive development around Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad.
 
 Earlier during the meeting, Fadnavis sanctioned Rs 799.65 crore annual budget (2017-18) of the PMRDA. He said the budget had substantial provisions for the ring road and   metro rail, which is being developed by the PMRDA. “The authority has been working on these projects, which are now expected to be taken up for execution in the coming year,“ Fadnavis said.
 
 Guardian minister  , during the meeting, instructed officials to make provi sions for hospitals and rest rooms at every 15km of the ring road.
 
 “Agencies should also develop feeder routes along with the ring road and remove all encroachments that have cropped up on the path of the ring road,“ Bapat added.
 
 PMRDA chief   said the ring road would not have any traffic signals. “The administration has completed aerial survey of PMRDA region,“ Zagade added.
 
