DHUNNE KE (MOGA): As Rajeshwari Gayakwad’s stumps got rattled with  , every Indian’s heart sank into their chest.   (in Moga, Punjab) that was preparing for   was no different.

 At 191/3, the Indian team was cruising towards a convincing victory, and at that time Moga – especially Harmanpreet Kaur’s residence – was replete with celebrations.
 
 But as India lost seven wickets for 28 runs and were bowled out for 219, the scenes changed dramatically. The bhangra stopped, the dhols were silenced and the hooting in favour of the Indian team was totally hushed.
 
 There was a stoic silence at Harmanpreet’s residence; however, soon the people who had gathered recovered and admired the Indian team’s performance over the World Cup.
 
 “We may have lost this match, but this performance has ushered a revolution. Now more and more parents will encourage their girls to take up sports,” Harmanpreet’s father, Harmandar Singh Bhullar said.
 
 “The 171 that Harmanpreet scored was a game changer for women’s cricket in India. Earlier, women cricketers seldom got recognition. But, now these girls are household names. Finishing runners-up among so many teams is also a huge achievement,” he added.
 
 Harmanpreet’s mother Satwinder Kaur told TOI that a grand welcome awaits her daughter. “The Indian team lost the match, but they won the entire nation’s hearts. The entire village is waiting for Harman to return. She will receive a grand welcome, I can guarantee that. She has made all of us, the entire Moga city proud with her performances,” she said.
 
 Relatives, residents from nearby areas and cricket fans thronged Dhunne Ke village throughout the day. The phones of Harmanpreet’s family continued to ring. “It is not only an honour for Punjab but for the whole country that the Indian team reached the final,” said the cricketer’s father, Harmandar Singh Bhullar (52), who works as a clerk with an advocate in district courts in Moga. “I have played football, cricket, basketball and handball. I was a district-level football player in 1985-86. She had sports in her since her childhood days. When she was in middle standard, she would see boys playing cricket in the ground in her school, Gyan Jyoti School-Daara Pur, and later she too started playing with them”.
 
 Harmanpreet’s sister Hemjit Kaur, who is an English professor at a local college, recalleds how her sister would collect card pictures of Varinder Sehwag, who is her favourite player and later brought a big picture of his for her room. She added that her sister loved inspirational movies.
 
 She said BCCI officials should especially receive the team at the airport. “I hope they get a warm welcomed from from the airport to their native homes,” she added.
 
 Hemjit Kaur said that her sister did feel nervous sometimes while returning home from practice late in the evening, but braved all of it for her passion. “She has made our village proud. Already, many girls from our village have started dreaming of making it big in cricket,” said Karan Singh, the chairman of Bhai Kanhaiya Ji Sports Club, which had honoured Harmanpreet three years ago.
 
