BERHAMPUR: Hundreds of people, mostly women, thronged the   at Buguda, 70 km from here in  , on Sunday on the occasion of the  , when the   is worshipped. 

 People from far-off places visited the 300-year-old temple, also known as wooden Konark, for its exquisite art work in wood early in the morning and worshipped  , the main deity of the temple. 
 
 "While daylong rituals were performed to mark Samba Dashami, the main festival will be held on Magha Saptami on February 3," said Mahanta Bhakta Rama Das of the temple. 
 
 Apart from performing rituals, people from different parts of the country visit the temple for its fine wood carvings and murals, which are the major attraction of the temple. 
 
 The temple was built by Srikar Bhanja, one of the kings of Bhanja dynasty, in 1790 AD. 
 
 It is built in the shape of a chariot of the sun drawn by seven horses. The roof of the temple has been covered with copper plates on which tiles are fixed at present.
 
 If the Sun Temple at Konark is famous for its stone carving, the Biranchi Narayan temple is famous for its wood carving. 
 
 "We think it was the first wood carving made in the state," said former vice- chancellor, Utkal University of Culture, and noted historian A K Pattnaik. The temple is also famous for its marvellous murals. The wall paintings depict Ram and Laxman receiving visitors and warriors on a hill in a rocky land. The paintings of the temples are based mostly on the stories of Ramayana.
 
 The picturesque paintings include Sita Syayambara (marriage), killing of Mayamiriga by Lord Ram, Sita harana, construction of Setu bandh and the battle between Ram and Ravan. 
 
 The stories of Krishna leela and the car festival of Lord Jagannath are also painted on western and the northern walls of the temple respectively. "Art lovers and research scholars from far-off places, including foreigners, visit the temple for a glimpse of its wood carving and wall paintings," said Girish Chandra Padhy, a researcher. The Archeological Survey of India (ASI) should take over its protection so that the temple can be preserved well, he said. 
 
 Locals have been demanding proper protection measures for the historic temple since long. "If timely action is not taken, the temple will be ruined in course of time," said a devotee.
 
