MYSURU:   who are pursuing courses in institutions across the city are being keenly watched by the special branch of the city police, said GR Janardana, director of the International Centre,  .

 Four foreign students in the city, whose campus activities were found unsatisfactory, were sent back to their respective countries recently.
 
 With the recent murder of an African student and other incidents in Bengaluru, Mysore University authorities are keeping an eagle eye not only on African students but all foreign students in the university.
 
 The city is home to nearly 1,500 students from over 40 countries -- 763 students at the University of Mysore, 400 at St Philomena’s College, 125 students at JSS University and many more.
 
 Most foreign students prefer to study in India as quality education is not expensive, the cost of living is reasonable, and the environment for education is conducive. A year’s study in America requires nearly $45,000 but in India, it works out to an average of $5700 every year. India also attracts foreign students because of a multicultural and inter-disciplinary learning environment, say experts in the field.
 
 GR Janardana told TOI that there are no complaints against any foreign students, including African students, from the public or other students. “We are keeping a tab on students both on campus and off it. If any student is found misbehaving, stringent action will be initiated. As soon as the students enroll for various courses, intelligence sleuths keep track of their movements for the first six months. Heads of departments are also given the responsibility of keeping track of their students. If they are found to be creating problems for the public, they will be deported,” he said.
 
 Students whose attendance is less than 75% are not allowed to write exams, and this is reported to their respective embassies. Each foreign student is like a country ambassador, and should understand their role and responsibilities. We are also planning to counsel all students after informing the vice-chancellor, Janardana said.
 
 
