BHUBANESWAR: The   started   and launched the   (MCA) in   on Sunday. The project aims to provide the   the status it deserves in the national and international map of physical art and culture. 

 "The main idea behind Project Chauni is to facilitate Chhau artistes with an innovative module of training and subsequent performance opportunities, ensuring a respectable livelihood for them. So a monetizing formula was devised by reviving Chhau's dying ties with those who have kept the form alive despite challenges," said Mayurbhanj district collector, Rajesh Prabhakar Patil. 
 
 A Mayurbhanj Chhau Performing Unit (MCPU), a website on Mayurbhanj's Chhau tradition, a video CD on its techniques, a CD on conservation of the music of Mayurbhanj Chhau were also released on the occasion. 
 
 As many as 60 dancers and musicians have been selected from 213 organizations practicing Chhau across Mayurbhanj for MCPU. They were trained at a 12-day workshop under the guidance of eminent teachers from the district and outside. 
 
 "The number of Chhau performances of artistes from Mayurbhanj has undergone a subsequent fall in the past few years so MCPU will ensure performances for the artistes. The selected artistes were categorized according to their talent and experience and will accordingly get chances of performance and remuneration," Patil added.
 
 The MCA will hold training classes at various places to impart proper standardized trainings. In the coming days, interactional training workshops to choreograph both traditional and contemporary Chhau routines will be held.
 
 "To meet the gap in training of the artists, a curriculum has been developed for proper training in dance and music after much research with the current gurus and senior artistes. All the basic techniques such as the Topka Ufli and the Upa Ufli were recorded in videos and more than 80 dance items were documented for preservation," said Bibhudatta Das, coordinator of the project.
 
 The trained artists will perform during the three-day Chitra Parva to begin from Monday. 
 
 
