GURUGRAM: Parents are up in arms against a   that came up right across the gate of  , which according to them, is a pick-up point for the children. The school is situated in the   in  .

 “The liquor vend is right across the gate of the school. Imagine the kind of plight the students are subjected to. This kind of atmosphere will have a bad influence on them,” said one of the parents, who doesn’t want her name to be published. She said her two children are studying in the school, one in Class X and the other in Class III.
 
 She also alleged the area was quite notorious as there was a joint which sold drugs in the vicinity. She said it was shut down after the school authorities intervened and took stringent action. As per the law, she claimed, within 150 metres of a school, hospital or a religious institution, a liquor vend cannot be set up. In this case, the school is just around 100 metres away from the liquor vend. Thus, the parents are up in the arms, and are demanding that it be shut or shifted to another place. “The liquor vends in Gurgaon are open from 7am till 2 am. Imagine the kind of risks our children will face. There could be even law and order problem,” said Sudhir Sachdeva, whose two kids are studying in the junior wing of the school.
 
 Protesting parents are also alleging that while on one hand, the state government is trying to shift liquor vends from highways, on the other, it’s not coming up with rules to shut liquor vends that are operating in the vicinity of educational institutions. “There is a 500-metre buffer to be maintained from the highways for schools, it is only 150 metres in case of schools, which is ridiculous,” said the mother of a girl student who studies in Class X. 
 
 The parents have decided to approach excise officials, and have also fixed an appointment with deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh. Such issues have been cropping up time and again in the city after the zoning rules for vends were changed in the excise policy 2017.
 
 Deputy excise and taxation commissioner Sneh Lata Yadav, when contacted by TOI, said, “I have spoken to residents on Tuesday, and I am supposed to meet them on Wednesday. I will be visiting the site as well on Wednesday morning. Only after the inspection and my discussion with residents, I will able to comment on the matter.” She, however, said as per the policy there is nothing wrong in the location of the vend, and the department would ensure that nobody created nuisance in the vicinity in case the vend was to stay there.
 
 
