Kolkata: In a major crackdown on   companies, some of which were floated to stash ill-gotten money, the Registrar of   (ROC) has served notices on as many as 11,955 such entities operating in Bengal. The ROC show-cause under section 248(1) of the Companies Act comes after it was found that these companies did not carry out any operation for the two preceding fiscals; neither did they apply for dormant status. 

 These companies have been given 30 days to respond along with relevant documents, failing which they will be struck off the ROC rolls.
 
 The ROC missive, and the notice issued by the task force on black money to central agencies last week asking them to share data on shell companies, point to money-laundering through the shell route in Bengal, particularly after the Ponzi boom. Such shell companies also find mention in the report of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) on black money led by retired judge Arijit Pasayat.
 
 It was found that between 2011 and 2015, around 16,000 shell companies were set up in Bengal. Last month, the income tax department, in a report to the Union finance ministry, had noted that there were more than 17,000 shell companies in Kolkata. 
 
 The Enforcement Directorate identified some of these shell companies during a countrywide raid on April 2. During the raid it was found that many of the registered addresses were fictitious even though there was proof of their financial footprints. In some of the cases, these shell companies were allegedly used to launder money across the country.
 
 The task force on black money, which comprises the Union revenue secretary and heads of all law enforcement agencies, have asked central investigating agencies like CBI, ED, Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO) and the I-T department to share inputs on a war footing. It has also asked the agencies to focus on prosecution without delay and sought an action taken report from these companies without any delay. The task force will then send a detailed report to the Prime Minister’s Office.
 
 
