NAGPUR: A spell of heavy rain accompanied by wind led to power breakdowns all over the city on Wednesday night. It once again exposed the shoddy power infrastructure of   and SNDL, which claim to have spent crores on it. The multiple breakdowns also raise a question mark over maintenance practices of the two companies.

 A MSEDCL official said power supply went off at about 2am at Shivaji Park, Dandige Layout, Shankar Nagar, Dharampeth etc. “We restored supply within five and 12 minutes. Localities served by Gokulpeth feeder had to go without power for 30 minutes. However, damage to an underground cable caused a two-and-a-half hour breakdown in   while Subhash Nagar had to go without power for two hours,” he said.
 
 Breakdowns also occurred near Anand Talkies, Bhagwaghar Layout, Ramdaspeth, Trimurti Nagar, Prasad Nagar, Bhende Layout and All India Reporter feeders. Supply was restored within 20 to 55 minutes. The official said MSEDCL staffers worked through the night to ensure that supply was restored as soon as possible.
 
 Several localities in SNDL areas also witnessed power breakdowns. A franchisee spokesperson said that as thunderstorm had been predicted the repair teams were alert for any such condition, and restoration works could be completed within average time of 47 minutes. “A major tripping due to squirrel getting trapped within the bushings of transformer at Mankapur caused an extended fault, which could be identified only in the morning. However, the area was backfeeded and alternative supply ensured within a short time,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said the city received 5.3mm rainfall accompanied by thunderstorms.   experienced an unusual 15.8mm rainfall.
 
 The change in weather caused a sudden drop of 5 degree Celsius in minimum temperature. The minimum temperature of the city recorded on Tuesday night was 27.5 degree, while after the rainfall the minimum temperature went down to 22.2 degree, 4.2 notches below normal, on Wednesday night.
 
 However, the rainfall has not caused any major difference in the day heat. The maximum temperature recorded on Wednesday was 42 degree, while it marginally went up to 42.4 degree on Thursday.
 
 As per IMD forecast, the city is likely to witness cloudy skies throughout the day on May 5. Till May 9, the day temperature is likely to stay between 43-44 degree, while the night temperature is expected to stay between 26 and 27 degree. Between May 7 and 10, IMD predicts partly cloudy sky with possibility of rainfall, thunderstorm or dust storm.
 
 Wednesday’s rainfall was restricted to Nagpur and Wardha districts. With that, the two districts were coolest in the region, the city being on top. With the 15.8mm rainfall at Wardha, the minimum temperature of the district dropped to 23.5 degree, 2.9 notches below normal. In the same time, Akola at 29.5 degree was the hottest, followed by Amravati, Buldhana and Chandrapur at 27 degree.
 
