BHOPAL: What’s with   and police and their winged mysteries in  ? For the second time this year, a beloved parrot of a cop went   and was found after the distraught policeman announced a cash reward.

 Oh yes, to make this mushy story even mushier, the missing parrots answer to the cute names Tunnu and Chiku. 
 
 In a span of three months, the parrots belonging to a DSP and a constable disappeared, forcing their masters to announce rewards. While the DSP announced a reward of Rs 5,001 to trace his Tunnu, the constable announced Rs 3,000 to find its Chiku. Both paid off — and paid up.
 
 Chiku, who loves to perch on Pawan Aniya’s arm, disappeared on Monday. “Chiku went missing around 2.30pm. It came as a catastrophe for my mother, who went into grief and quit eating,” constable Pawan, a resident of Betul told TOI.
 
 “Chiku seldom lived in its cage. It would move freely around the house. We don’t think birds should be locked up, any way. Chiku has been living with us for two years and never tried to escape. On Monday afternoon, some kids came to my house as guests with their parents. I was on duty and my mother was alone at home. The kids were playing and they broke some wooden furniture. Chiku got scared and flew away,” said Pawan. 
 
 “The bird is like a family member. My mother refused to have food. It was only after Chiku was found at 1.30pm on Tuesday that she had her lunch. I too was worried, not able to understand what to do and how to find the bird. I posted on social media that I will give a cash reward of Rs 3,000 to anyone who finds Chiku. I also sought the help of local newspapers. They published my appeal,” said the cop. 
 
 The good thing is that Chiku isn’t used to flying too far and landed on a nearby shop. “A boy named Pramod saw the bird and rescued it. After coming to know about my message on social media, he contacted me and I got my Chiku back. I gave the boy Rs 3,000 as reward,” Pawan said. 
 
 He may have got the cash reward idea from DSP   Samar, a poet and a cop with a gentle heart, whose pet parrot Tunnu went missing in January. It was only after Samar announced a reward for the bird on social media that it was found after three days. A paanwala identified the parrot, rescued it and returned it to the DSP. 
 
 
