MUMBAI: Twenty-two years after a man was charged with abetting the suicide of his 32-year-old wife for her inability to bear children, a sessions   acquitted him recently. Radheshyam Sharma (56), who was out on bail for most part, was arrested four months back after he failed to appear in court despite repeated summons. 

 The case fell apart after the complainant, a relative who the woman confided in, died, case papers went missing and the sole witness, a family doctor who was aware of the woman’s medical issues and subsequent fights with the husband, did not support the prosecution case that the accused tortured the victim. Sharma remarried after the victim immolated herself in 1994. 
 
 The complaint against Sharma was registered by the family friend on November 18, 1994. He told   police he knew the victim’s family as they were from the same village in UP. He said the victim and accused had been married for 15 years at the time of the incident. 
 
 The victim had delivered a baby 10 years before the incident but the child died soon after birth. The man told cops that she had repeatedly told him that Sharma used to harass her. He alleged that in March 1994, when he visited his village, the victim who was there, told him that the accused wanted to remarry and used to assault her. The man said that at the request of the victim’s mother, he brought her back to the city. But he found Sharma only two months later, as he had moved to Nashik for business. 
 
 On November 11, 1994, the victim visited the complainant and allegedly told him that Sharma was beating her and forcing her to leave the house so that he could remarry. The complainant reassured her that he would send his wife to speak to him. But on November 16 the accused visited his home and told him that the previous day the victim had died after setting herself ablaze. He stated that the accused sought his help to secure the release of her body by acting as a relative. The complainant said the next day, when he visited the home of the accused, he could not be found. Suspecting his involvement, he told cops the accused had instigated the victim to take her life. 
 
 In December, the cops told the court that the original papers, chargesheet and FIR were missing. The court allowed the cops to lead secondary evidence in the case, in the form of certified copies of original documents. 
 
 The court, while acquitting Sharma, held that the complainant and other witnesses were not examined, and considering the doctor’s evidence, the prosecution had failed to prove the case.
 
 
