Ludhiana: The District Consumer Redressal Forum has penalized a multi-brand retail outlet Rs6,000 for charging nine rupees in excess for a product sold by it. The forum directed the multi-brand retail outlet to pay Rs4,000 of the total amount as compensation for mental harassment, and remaining amount of Rs2,000 as litigation charges to the complainant, besides refunding the excess charged amount of rupees nine to him.

 Forum president GK Dhir and member Paramjit Singh Bewli directed them for compliance of the order within 30 days from the receipt of the order passed on 5 June. The complainant received the order copy on July 4. In his complaint, the complainant — Amit Kumar Mishra of Mundian Kalan — said that he purchased a handwash from Vishal Mega Mart in Sector 32 on Chandigarh Road on 27 April last year by paying Rs159, though the MRP of the said product was Rs150. He added that when he contacted the company, they refused to receive the complaint, but misbehaved with him.
 
 The complainant said that he had sent a letter through registered post on 6 May last year. He added that after more than two months, the multi-brand retail outlet did not give any reply to the complainant and that is why, a complaint was filed to seek apologies for the misbehaviour done by the company, along with seeking a refund of excess charged price of rupees nine, plus Rs50,000 for physical and mental agony, and litigation expenses of Rs5,000.
 
 The judgement said the product purchased by the complainant on 27 April last year had a maximum retail price of Rs150 printed thereon on the date of purchase. The forum added that the complainant had lodged a complaint with the multi-brand retail outlet on 6 May through registered post, and the same was delivered to them on 7 and 9 May last year, as seen from the superintendent post office, Ludhiana. The judgement read that even the record of telephone bills shows that the complainant made calls even on 28 and 29 April last year. It added that the complainant had raised a protest against excessive charging of price than the MRP of Rs150 through Facebook on 27 April 2016 itself at 9.56pm.
 
 The advocate appearing for Vishal Mega Mart, Sector 32, Chandigarh Road, said in reply that the complaint was false, frivolous, and vexatious, and the same was filed for abusing the process of law. He added that the complaint alleged to be filed with malafide intention for harassing his client, just to get wrongful monetary gains. It is claimed that the complainant had failed to prove any unfair trade practice, deficiency in service, or negligence on the part of Vishal Mega Mart.
 
 
