SURAT: The Diamond City’s oldest ‘one-way’ route at Bhagal junction has been causing a big trouble for commuters, especially those wanting to travel to railway station in their cars or drive to National Highway (NH)-8 via Varachha. 

 For the last many years, the route from Bhagal junction to   is banned for four-wheelers and the vehicles have to pass through a narrow road from Ruwala Tekra via Galemandi. As the road passes through the heavily-packed Bhagal vegetable market, it is difficult to find driving space on less than 30 meter road, with vehicles parked on both the sides. 
 
 The traffic is so heavy throughout the day that it is difficult to drive on the narrow road. Most of the residents in the walled city, Adajan, Rander, Nanpura, Athwalines, Parle Point, etc. have been using this route to travel to the railway station or drive towards NH-8 via Varachha. 
 
 Residents have been demanding that the authorities end the one-way traffic system at Bhagal to ease the flow of vehicular traffic on the entire Rajmarg starting from station to Chowk Bazaar. 
 
 RTI activist   has written to police commissioner demanding lifting of the one-way restriction at Bhagal junction for smooth flow of traffic. 
 
 “There is a one way from Bhagal junction to Delhi Gate for four-wheelers since the past many years. This notification was issued when the main road was very narrow, but after demolition and line alignment some years ago, the road is now widened. However, the one-way rule still exists,” says Rajesh Modi.
 
 He added, “As the traffic is comparatively less on Bhagal to Delhi Gate, both the sides of the road is encroached upon by street hawkers from Cinema Road to Bhagal, occupying around 30 per cent of the road.” Surat Citizens’ Council Trust president Sharad Kapadia said, “It is high time that the authorities take a decision on traffic management considering the high volume of vehicles plying on the city roads. The one-way system should be abolished completely on the main carriageways in order to streamline the traffic flow.”
 
 A police officer said, “Given a sharp increase in vehicular population in the Diamond City, it’s time to review the traffic situation. The department is doing its surveys around the city to help streamline the traffic movement.”
 
