
A few days ago, 29-year-old   aka Neha visited a prospective employer at a posh housing society in Gurgaon after a guard alerted her that a new ‘madam’ had shifted in and was looking for a cook. After a round of probing questions about her work experience, family, background and timings, the ‘madam’ abruptly asked her if she was a Muslim. Khatoon explained that though she had been born into a Muslim family, her Hindu husband and his family had christened her Neha. Khatoon, who came to Gurgaon from Bengal 17 years ago to escape a child marriage, didn’t get the job.
 
 Such discriminatory experiences are common for domestic workers across India. Recently, Medha Khole, a scientist at the Indian Meteorological Department in Pune, filed a police complaint against her cook Nirmala Yadav accusing her of concealing her caste and marital status. She later withdrew the complaint but the incident betrayed Indian society’s most deeply-held prejudices.
 
 Several placement agencies admit that they often get requests on the basis of caste and religion. “Ninety nine percent of the clients make their preferences clear when they approach us,” says Anupam Sinhal of Book My Bai, an online recruitment platform for domestic workers “We have to go by what the employer wants, because otherwise they will just reject the worker later. In fact, due to desperation for work, a lot of female Muslim help even change their names legally.”
 
 Gauri Singh, who ran the Gurgaon-based training and placement agency   and now runs a digital training platform for domestic workers called Dekho Seekho, has a similar story. “When we clarified that we didn’t discriminate on the basis of caste or religion, people would say, ‘Don’t lecture us’,” Singh says. In one instance, a client asked the help to adopt the name Rashmi instead of Reshmi Bibi because her mother-in-law wouldn’t accept a “Muslim maid”. “Some clients would keep rejecting maids without telling us that the problem they had was with religion,” Singh adds.
 
 Bias is even more pronounced when it comes to hiring a cook. “Domestic workers from scheduled castes are not allowed to cook in the home, but are given work like cleaning and sweeping,” says Sister Christine Mary, national coordinator for the  . “For cooking, employers look for a person from their caste or upper castes.” Mary is also critical of placement agencies which openly advertise for domestic workers from particular communities.
 
 Domestic workers like Khatoon often experience more everyday forms of discrimination, such as being given separate utensils, not being allowed to use the same toilets, and sometimes, not even the same lift as the tenants. “Lower caste women are asked to wash utensils but not allowed to eat from them,” says Maya John, convenor of the Delhi-based Gharelu   (GKU).
 
 John points out that cases like the one in Pune and the July conflict at Noida’s   complex, which started over the alleged locking up of a domestic worker, are often rooted in disputes over wages rather than caste and religious rifts. “In Delhi NCR, it suits opportunistic employers to hire workers from lower castes because that labour can be used for long hours and at cheap rates. Often we see that when a worker is claiming their wages or asking for leave, it takes an ugly, casteist or communal form,” John says.
 
