A scene from the movie   2, which shows   being stripped by the police officer, played by actor P  , has been allegedly leaked online. However, the particular scene has been deleted in the movie, which got released last Friday, after   raised objections to it.

 The film team claims that they are completely unaware on how the video got leaked online. Actress   on her twitter page has requested everyone to be patient as she will clear everything within few days. 
 
 The actress, who was upset and agitated over the issue, spoke to us saying, "Yes. I shot for it, but I was not nude. I have pictures that show my body parts covered up with a towel that were clicked in my caravan. What is eventually seen in the film is the result of computer colour grading, which was made to show the scene in that fashion. My character, Chandri, is a victim of sexual abuse in this scene, so this was meant to showcase that. I am appalled at how the scene has been circulated by people and has been shown repeatedly on media platforms. It shocks me that people want to share content like this among themselves."
 
 Speaking about the treatment of the scene Sanjjanaa says, "I knew I was shooting a bold scene and that it would be 'sensational' in terms of how the word is used in the industry. As actors, we are fully aware of what is being shot, but we have no control on how it is being picturized. I thought it would be shot aesthetically, but the way it has been picturized is downright vulgar. The fault is in the making. It might have been shot like that keeping the mass audience in mind."
 
 The actress, like the rest of her team, is worried about how the video will be taken down, even as some platforms have been forced to do so. "The scene is not even in the film, so the question about who leaked it is obviously restricted to the core team. If it was uploaded through a computer, we could have tracked the source. This has gone viral on Whatsapp first, and that is making it difficult to track the source. I have a team working on removing all links and related content that has been appearing online," says Sanjjanaa, adding, "My family is in a state of panic, but they are, of course, being supportive and standing by me."
 
 The movie Dandupalya 2 has been in the news for all the wrong reasons. Recently, actors Sanjjanna Galrani and   were at logger heads in a press meet owing to promotion issue.
 
  The movie which is based on the gang called   has actors Makrand Deshpande, Ravi Kale and petrol prasanna in the lead roles. Dandupalya 3 is set for August release.
  
