PATNA: Brace for "dog days" over the next three months as, according to a latest forecast by India Meteorological Department ( ), there are 47% chances of maximum temperature remaining above normal in Bihar and other core heat wave zones in the country from April to June. 

 Both maximum and   are expected to be higher than their respective normal by 0.5-1 degree C in eastern India, including Bihar, over the next three months. Besides, normal to above normal heat wave conditions are expected in the region this summer.
 
  The seasonal forecast based on initial weather conditions in March has been recently issued by   (IITM), Pune. The report released by IMD earlier this week stated that both average maximum and minimum temperatures for the season are likely to be above normal by 0.5-1 degree C in eastern parts of the country. The average mean temperature too is expected to be 0.5-1 degree C above the respective normal in the three summer months. 
 
 Weathermen at   too claimed that above normal temperature conditions are expected in the state. "Hot days are expected to continue till June-end, wherein we are expecting above normal temperature conditions in the state based on prevailing climate conditions in the region and sea surface conditions in the  . May is likely to be the hottest," said Anand Shankar, met scientist and director in-charge at Patna Meteorological Centre. 
 
 Maximum temperature in Patna already touched 40 degrees C mark last Monday.
 
 The met scientist, however, added rising temperature conditions might be tamed by frequent spells of North wester. The North wester is a weather system that brings sudden thunderstorm activities in summer, starting usually from the second week of March. 
 
 "Excess heating would be followed by Nor'wester thundershowers. The frequency of Nor'wester is expected to be highest in April, followed by May," said Shankar. 
 
 As per meteorology, excess heating of the land during summer season results in convective currents that in turn help in formation of low cumulonimbus clouds, bringing rain accompanied by gusty winds, brewing a typical Nor'wester.
 
 Bihar has already witnessed four spells of Nor'wester thundershower activities. In fact, the state is facing the fourth spell of Nor'wester at present, but the rainfall has been comparatively less this time. The IMD in its all-India weather bulletin has issued forecast of isolated to scattered rainfall in Bihar on Friday and Saturday. 
 
