NAVI MUMBAI: Five persons, including two women, were booked after the group, claiming to be   and journalists, waylaid a tempo at the   on Monday night without informing the police as it suspected the vehicle was loaded with beef, which is banned in Maharashtra.

 Vashi police subsequently arrested two, who are claiming to be journalists of a Kandivli-based newspaper.
 
 All five have been charged with wrongful restraint and confinement under Sections 341 and 342, and unlawful assembly under IPC Sections 141, 142 and 143 of the IPC in the FIR. The arrested duo was remanded in magistrate custody on Tuesday .
 
 “The group claimed it intercepted the vehicle as it suspected beef was being trans ported in it. Two of them claimed to be journalists from Mumbai who worked for a registered newspaper. But they do not have the authority to intercept any vehicle on the highway . If they suspected beef is being transported, they should have informed the poli ce. We would have taken a legal course of action,“ said senior inspector Ajay Landge.
 
 Since the tempo was loaded with meat, a veterinary doctor with the local civic body was summoned after the incident. “The   vet checked the documents that men tioned the technical aspects of the butchered meat and confirmed that as per the papers, the consignment was of buffalo meat. Also, the meat was been transported legally to a cold storage at   in   as they had the valid invoices, which has been verified,“ said the police.
 
 “The incident is not related to cow vigilantism. But there seems to be some vested interest of the group that will be investigated,“ said Landge.
 
 The animal activists claimed that the meat category can be confirmed only after forensic analysis. NMMC veterinarian Dr Vaibhav Zunzare said the NMMC does not have facilities for preliminary tests to confirm the animal whose meat is being tested. But the documents with the transporters and the technical details showed that the meat was of buffalo and the opinion was given accordingly to the police. 
 
