LUCKNOW: It was a bright, colourful, happy and   sight to behold as the city and state’s first Awadh Queer Pride parade was taken out here on Sunday, almost 18 years after Kolkata raised the flag for the first pride walk in the country. 

 As rainbow flags fluttered in the air and drumbeat resounded the air there was huge participation in the almost 1.5km procession from Sikanderbagh Crossing to Gandhi Park at Hazratganj to uphold pride for the   (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, intersex and asexual) people and all those supporting the cause. 
 
 There was a hearty display of solidarity from the community as well as its supporters, leaving guests at the parade from other cities completely amazed.
 
 “It is surprising to see   come out in such large numbers, outdoing pride walks of Jaipur and Nagpur and even though it is a long time after India’s first pride walk happened in Kolkata in 1999, we are glad it is at least happening,” said Venkatesh, who came from Kolkata to be part of Lucknow's historic moment. 
 
 Standing in unison for the pride walk, the participants were in their best costumes and colours. “A country where queer people are free is truly free and everybody can walk with dignity, so we are here to celebrate diversity of gender and sexuality, against any discrimination,” said Darvesh Singh Yadavendra, the organiser of the   Committee. 
 
 Terming the participation ‘fabulous’, Ashok Row Kavi, chairman of Humsafar Trust, Mumbai said, “Lucknow was the epicentre of gay culture in the Gangetic plain which was evident in even its literature such as Umrao Jan Ada and was suppressed by the British. We are only keeping the tradition alive though the modern Indian political class is ashamed of it.”
 
 Chanting slogans like ‘I am gay, it’s Okay’ and ‘Hey hey, ho ho, homophobia has to go’, the walking party was above religious divides. Dressed in a white kurta pyjama and green skull cap, Faraz held above his head a special placard that read, “I am a queer Muslim, get over it”. Standing close to him with a thick beard was Chennai-based Ram clad in saffron robes. “In Uttar Pradesh, there are talks of Hindutva up and about, but there are also orthodox Brahmin and Kshatriya who are queer and exist. My attire is another way of saying that religion and sexuality co-exist.” said Ram.
 
 With his ‘Mr Gay World’ sash tied across the torso, Rohan Pujari, the first runner-up at the Indian leg of the international pageant said, “Mumbai is open to LGBTIA but given Lucknow's sophisticated culture, such a surprising turnout was not expected. It is encouraging.” And to support the community that was opening up, some for the first time, representatives of the heterosexual society played a huge role. “They are no different from anyone and we are here to stand by them to ensure they get their basic human rights,” said Mahendra Rawat, supporting the cause. 
 
