DEHRADUN: In the biggest administrative reshuffle since chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat’s government came to power as many as 21 IAS officers were shifted on Monday.
 
  The list also includes the names of three new district magistrates (DMs), whereas departments were withdrawn and additional responsibilities given to senior administrative officers.
  
  The charges for centrally-sponsored schemes, higher education and programme implementation have been withdrawn from chief secretary S Ramaswamy.
  
  Additional chief secretary (ACS) Om Prakash has been given the additional charge of public works department and rajya sampatti.
  
  Umakant Panwar was made principal secretary of centrally-sponsored schemes, project implementation, sports and transport, while Manisha Panwar was also given industry.
  
  1988-batch IAS Radha Raturi has been given additional responsibility of principal secretary, personnel and vigilance.
  
  The charges of secretary personnel, vigilance, public works department were withdrawn from Arvind Singh Hyanki, and he was given charges of forest and environment.
  
  Radhika Jha, secretary to the chief minister, has been given additional charge of energy and alternative energy.
  
  Kumaon commissioner D Snethil Pandiyan has been given additional responsibility of secretary agriculture, horticulture and rural engineering.
  
  Garhwal commissioner Vinod Sharma was given additional charge of secretary, protocol and higher education.
  
  Additional secretary, planning (minority welfare),   has been made Chamoli DM, replacing Vinod Kumar, who has been kept in the waiting list.
  
  Rudraprayag DM Ranjana Verma and Bageshwar DM Mangesh Ghildiyal have swapped their districts.
  
  R   has been made secretary, tourism and tourism development. The charges of secretary, tourism, mining, protocol, youth welfare, were withdrawn from  .
  
  On April 27, the   government had made first administrative reshuffle when as many as 19 IAS officers were given new responsibilities, including the transfer of five DMs.
