There seems to be a clear horizontal divide between   workers and leaders in the  .

 Party heavyweights from the gounder community, the numerically powerful and politically influential caste block that appeared to pose a challenge to the ascension of Sasikala as party chief, now strongly support her. But grassroots level supporters from the same community, like those from other castes in the Kongu region, seem to have taken a diametrically opposite stand, wanting O Panneerselvam to continue as chief minister.
 
 Not many are vocal, but they resent Sasikala's ascension. She seems to have lost her ground especially with women, while OPS has won the confidence of people as was evident from the response of a cross section of people in the indus trialised pockets of Coim batore as well as rural hin terland this correspondent spoke to.
 
 On Thursday, a group of residents from Kinathukadavu, a predominantly rural constituency populated by gounders, were running a campaign asking their MLA to support OPS. "I strongly feel that members of our community prefer the unassuming OPS to Sasikala, who is under shadow of suspicion over several is sues," said a leader of a gounder outfit in Coimbatore, preferring anonymity.
 
 The AIADMK office on Huzur Road in the heart of the city looked deserted on Thursday with just a handful of cadres trickling in and out. “We still don't know what actually happened behind the screens to make OPS quit. He should have been allowed to continue," said a middle-aged cadre.
 
 “Sasikala should clear her name from corruption cases before seeking to become CM," said an associate of MLA V C Arukutty who is backing OPS. Posters have come up in Kavundampalayam congratulating him for supporting OPS. A few cadres whom TOI spoke to said Sasikala had not learnt any lesson and was still encouraging her family members to interfere in party affairs. “It was shocking when OPS said Diwakaran was the one who played a key role in his ouster,“ said a cadre.
 
 On the other hand, the heavyweights, right from K A Sengottaiyan to Lok Sabha deputy speaker Thambidurai and senior leader C Ponnayan, all gounders from western Tamil Nadu are in the forefront, unleashing attacks on OPS.
 
 But there is an undercurrent of local power struggle within the party . All those who have extended support to OPS were neither in the past known to be close to him, but the common thread linking former dairy development minister P V Damodaran, ex-mayors T Malaravan and P Rajkumar and former MLA Rohini Krishnakumar is that they were all sidelined from the party at the behest of rural development minister S P Velumani.
 
