Mumbai: Hit by several terror attacks over the past 25 years and a series of other tragedies, Mumbai, it is said, is ready for just about anything. Yet nothing had really prepared the city for Friday morning as the metaphorical crush hour turned into a cruelly literal one. In the first stampede of tragic proportions on the city’s suburban railway network, 22 commuters were crushed to death and at least 39 injured on the narrow, rickety and overcrowded Elphinstone Road-Parel station foot over-bridge at 10.25am as the rain came down overhead. No other stampede on any suburban railway network in India has claimed so many lives.

 With the usual rush-hour crowd swelling further on the bridge because of the rain and bringing its weight to bear on those already waiting on the two staircases that lead to the exit on the western side, and with many commuters opting to wait on the bridge until showers (27.7mm in the area that is moderate) receded, the situation had turned precarious, as it often does on this bridge. 
 
 The stampede was “prima facie” triggered, according to Western Railway, by panic sparked by rumours that the bridge was falling. A “tremendous push from behind towards the exit” caused the crush, WR officials said.
 
 While one survivor confirmed the rumour had sparked panic, two other theories were put forward by eyewitnesses: one, an onrush of commuters following fears of the leaking under-construction roof falling and two, a spark that went off from an electric pole next to the bridge that caused a commuter to slip on the damp steps and resulted in people toppling over.
 
 While the stampede took place on the two staircases (one at the Churchgate end and the other at the Dadar end) on the Elphinstone Road side of the bridge, all casualties were on the staircase at the Dadar end (see graphic on P 2). 
 
 The presence of flower vendors (with their baskets) and buyers on the bridge may have compounded matters, some eyewitnesses said; many of them get off at Elphinstone Road (on Western Railway) and Parel (on Central Railway) to avoid the rush at Dadar station in order to reach the Dadar flower market nearby for Dussehra sales /purchases.
 
 Those injured were rushed by fellow commuters and passersby to Parel’s KEM Hospital, where 20 were declared dead on admission, and two died soon after being admitted. Nine of the 22 victims were women and one an 11-year-old boy. Thirty-nine were brought in injured and have been admitted; of these, one was on ventilator and the rest were stable, KEM dean Avinash Supe said. Most injuries were related to fractures and respiratory distress, Supe said.
 
 A station official said the number of passengers using both the Elphinstone Road and Parel stations every day is 3-3.5 lakh, the result of mill lands giving way to swanky corporate offices and residential high-rises. But the footover bridge that offers interconnectivity to CR and WR passengers is only 5m wide and 32m in length, and the staircases are even narrower: 2.1m wide each. 
 
 Friday’s tragedy also occurred on a day railway minister Piyush Goyal was to flag off 32 additional suburban services on WR and 28 on CR. Goyal was on his way to Mumbai from New Delhi when disaster struck.
 
 Yukti Marwah, a 28-year-old who works in Worli, said she was lucky to survive. She takes the crowded bridge every day and was on the left side of the bridge when the stampede took place. She recalled that people were crammed together, taking shelter from the shower. “People began pushing and shoving. I fell down but managed to get up because a man behind me helped,” she said. “I don’t know who he was and I couldn’t even see his face because there wasn’t enough space to turn around.” Fortunately, on her side of the bridge, the crowd wasn’t surging up the staircase. This allowed her to escape. Her colleague, on the right side of the bridge, wasn’t as lucky. He got caught in the stampede and ended up unconscious. While standing on the bridge, Marwah heard a few men joking about how it might collapse. This soon snowballed into a rumour that added to the panic, she said.
 
 Ashok Agarwal, an eyewitness and owner of the canteen at Elphinstone Road station, said five trains had arrived in quick succession at Parel and Elphinstone Road stations around the time of the incident. This may have also played a role in the crowds surging.
 
 Shravan Mehta, an office-goer who narrowly escaped as he had just stepped off the staircase, said it was the alarm about a spark on the pole that led to a commuter slipping. “And then we saw people just topple over,” he said. Mehta rushed to help the injured.
 
 Dhanashree Dagre, a local resident, said, “Many women and men were dressed in purple for Navami, the day of goddess Siddidatri. When their bodies were being taken away, we could see the ornaments were missing.”
 
 Jhanvi Mohite, another local resident, said: “It wasn’t possible to go downstairs as the narrow lane that separates our colony from the bridge was packed to capacity with policemen, rescuers, commuters and the injured. Never have I witnessed such a painful sight as bodies were pulled out after much struggle. When we saw the bodies of women, some of us ran into our homes to collect bedsheets and blankets which we threw down so rescuers could use them to cover the victims with.”
 
 Kishore Kamat, who has a garment shop next to the station, said, “We immediately lined up 10 taxis and rushed the victims to hospital.” 
 
 There are no CCTVs on the bridge, but visuals shot by eyewitnesses on their phones showed people lying on the ground, many not moving at all, and attempts to revive them by locals. Footwear and belongings lay scattered near the bridge and on the stairs; they were later removed by rescuers.
 
 One side of the bridge has been barricaded by metal sheets either for passenger safety or for privacy of the buildings next to it. Locals said they had to pull out the sheets and rescue people through that route as rescue agencies took time to reach the spot.
 
 Local resident Rajesh Bansode said he had been writing to railway authorities for seven years asking them to expand the bridge or have another arm to it, but no action was taken. “Parel is in fact another disaster waiting to happen,” he said.
 
 Goyal had an emergency meeting with top railway officials to ascertain steps taken by the administration to improve entry/exit points on the suburban network. He ordered an inquiry to be conducted by WR’s chief security officer to find out the cause of the tragedy and steps that need to be taken to prevent such incidents. A committee comprising the chief security officer, chief security commissioner and some others will conduct the inquiry on October 3.
 
 Meanwhile, Dadar police have registered an accidental death report and initiated their own inquiry which will be supervised by additional commissioner of police (Central region) Jay Kumar and deputy commissioner of police (zone V) Rajiv Jain.
 
 
