NASHIK: Brace yourself to shell out more money on the   you planned to purchase this   as the   of the flower have shot up by 50%.

 While this has been the condition for the last couple of days, the prices are expected to   by cent percent on Tuesday.
 
 The steep prices are also due to the increased demand for Nashik roses from cities like Indore, Delhi, Baroda and Surat.
 
 The prices of roses, which were recorded last at Rs 20 per dozen on Saturday, increased to Rs 30 per dozen by Monday.
 
 A flower vendor, Devidas Pandit said that the demand for roses have increased in the last two days due to Valentine’s Day. “The prices have increased from Rs 20 a dozen to Rs 30 a dozen in just two days due to a rise in demand. The prices may rise up to Rs 50 a dozen by Tuesday. I am also supplying roses to Indore, Delhi, Baroda and Surat as there is a good demand for roses from these places. I have been sending three boxes daily (1,000 flowers per box),” Pandit said.
 
 A rose grower, Rajiv Oza, who has a polyhouse on four acres of land near Dindori is also exporting roses. Oza said, “Last year, the export of roses had stopped on February 6 due to lack of demand. As there was a huge supply of roses from Africa, it had reduced the demand for roses in the UK, Middle East, Australia and other countries. Due to this, rose producers had to sell their stock of six days in the domestic market. This also led to the prices of the roses crashing, last year.”
 
 This year is good rose growers like Oza though as the export of the flower has roses continued till February 11. “So, we can export roses to other countries. This has also helped us to fetch good prices for roses. The rose prices are also better this year as compared to that of last year,” he added.
 
 Last year, farmers had to sell roses at the price of Rs 100 per 20 flowers during Valentine’s Day. Now, the prices have increased to Rs 160 per 20 flowers in the domestic market due to a sharp rise in demand.
 
 “We need the airport at Nashik to be operational as that might help boost the export of roses. Currently, we have to export our roses from the Mumbai airport. There is a huge potential for roses, but we need proper infrastructure and other facilities to be able to export from here comfortable,” said Oza.
 
 
