RIBANDAR: Manoj Chari would have been excited at being appointed presiding officer of Goa’s first-ever polling station manned entirely by physically challenged officials. But he had no inkling that challenges would surface immediately after polling began on Saturday morning. 

 Preparations for the elections at Government Primary School at Sao Pedro, Ribandar, were smooth. At 3.30pm, on the eve of polling day, the   (EC) had transported officialsall of them with orthopaedic disabilitiesin a specially modified vehicle to the polling station. They spent the night there in relative comfort in appropriately designed sleeping and bathroom facilities, made specially for their benefit.
 
 But, when the first voters arrived at 7am the next day, the electronic voting machine (EVM) was found to be faulty. Chari, despite his relative lack of experience, did not panic. He kept his cool and informed his seniors, who ensured the machine was replaced within half an hour, following which voting resumed.
 
 “Everything has been smooth since,” Chari told STOI, handling his duties with unusual calm in the high-profile Panaji constituency where the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is facing a tough battle to protect its turf for the first time in 25 years.
 
 The polling station at Sao Pedro has been turned into a ‘divyang’ polling station, under a special initiative of the EC. All stafffrom the presiding officer to the peondrawn from various state government departments, are physically challenged. Even the officers kept on call are disabled.
 
 Despite the booth being manned entirely by physically challenged officials, it does not have any disabled voters.
 
 “We have 778 voters. None of them are visually or physically challenged,” says Chari, as he fidgets with a Braille voter guide on his table. 
 
 The officials did their job well guiding voters, showing them the way to the EVM and guiding them out once they exercised their franchise. 
 
 The team’s seamless method of working impressed many, including Panaji MLA Sidharth Kuncalienker, who is being challenged by United Goans Party leader, Atanasio ‘Babush’ Monserrate. 
 
 “This is among the best managed polling stations I have seen so far,” Kuncalienker told the officials at the ‘divyang’ polling station on a visit, while several others also had favourable things to say.
 
