NEW DELHI: The CBI started separate probes on Wednesday into allegations of corruption against Delhi deputy CM   and his colleague, health minister  , a move which can only aggravate the intense hostility between   (AAP) and the Centre.

 CBI's preliminary enquiry against Sisodia, arguably Kejriwal's most trusted associate, concerns alleged irregularities in a contract to private firm Perfect Relations for a social media campaign, `Talk to AK'. Conceived along the lines of PM's `Mann Ki Baat', it aimed at enabling Kejriwal interact with people through social media. 
 
 Sources in CBI alleged that Perfect Relations made Rs 1.5 crore payment on behalf of the government in ad half of the government in advance which created liability for the state government. “It has to be seen how it was allowed,“ said a source.
 
 Official sources said Sisodia could be questioned very soon. The agency also launched a PE into the allegedly irregular appointment of Jain's daughter Saumya as advisor in the state health department. Saumya's appointment was revoked after a controversy broke out A PE is the first stage of a formal probe against a person or entity by the CBI. If criminal charges or corruption is found, the agency turns a PE into a regular case (FIR) later.
 
 Both the probes were initiated on the reference of former lieutenant governor  , who, after vigilance inquiry , had found “irregularities“ and “nepotism“ in these matters. Although the allegations against Sisodia and Jain, perhaps the second most influential member of Kejriwal's team after the deputy CM, are not new, the timing of CBI's move, in the run-up to polls in Punjab and Goa, where AAP hopes to do well, may attract allegations of vendetta. 
 
 The two fresh probes come weeks after the agency started investigation into an alleged spy unit formed by government.
 
 `Talk to AK' was started in July 2016, around the time when AAP was aggressively preparing for elections in Goa and Punjab. AAP had said at the time the move was intended to reach out to people across the country and Delhi government had launched an extensive campaign to publicise it.
 
 Kejriwal had done one session of `Talk to AK' for one hour during which he took questions from people. The government had made arrangements at Delhi secretar iat from where Kejriwal interacted with people.
 
 The second PE was registered to probe appointment of Saumya Jain as advisor to mission director, state health mission, department of health and family welfare, government of Delhi, to look into health sector reforms with retrospective effect from April 18, 2016, in response to her application made on April 1, 2016.
 
 The CBI named Saumya, MD of health department Tarun Seem and unknown officials of Delhi government in the complaint.
 
 A letter by then LG Jung to the CBI had claimed that “although the appointment of Jain has been made on April 18 but the mission director under which she has to work has given approval for her appointment on May 10, 2016“.
 
 The letter also mentioned that as per her application and biodata, she didn't seem to have any experience of the health sector as Saumya came from an architecture background. 
 
