MUMBAI: The directors of a private firm indicted for defrauding State Bank of India in connivance with its retired   have been ordered to pay a compensation of   to the bank. 

 A special CBI court convicted seven persons, including directors M P Abraham, 79, and Sajji Abraham, 47, and then   chief manager V B Mantri, 68, to five years in jail for fabricating company documents to enhance their   with the bank. 
 
 “In my view, while awarding sentence in like cases, it is necessary to consider to make good the loss to the bank and to recover the public money which the accused have utilized for making wrongful gain,” said special judge Hemant S Mahajan.
 
 Mantri, who is in jail, has appealed against the conviction in the Bombay high court and sought bail.
 
 On December 27, 2002, the then deputy general manager of SBI lodged a complaint with the CBI’s Bank Securities and   Cell, alleging that the directors of Trinity Petrofilm Pvt Ltd (TPPL), in connivance with then chief manager of SBI, Mulund branch, had cheated the bank of Rs 9.24 crore. The company was engaged in manufacturing chemicals and petroleum products.
 
 The prosecution alleged that the TPPL directors committed fraud, falsified accounts and siphoned off large amounts borrowed from the bank. The bank suspected conspiracy among Mantri and the directors cheating the bank.
 
 The 110-page judgment copy said TPPL had credit facilities with Syndicate Bank, Mulund (W) branch. In September 1997, this account was taken over by the SBI. The prosecution alleged that during that time, Mantri was the Mulund branch manager. It said that immediately after taking over the account, the credit limit of the company was enhanced to Rs 1.85 crore from Rs 92 lakh. A further recommendation of an enhancement to Rs 6.5 crore was made by Mantri and approved by the general manager in September 1998.
 
 The prosecution claimed that when SBI’s Ghatkopar branch, which undertook some of the account activities, approached the Maharashtra State Financial Corporation for creation of second rights over the assets in case of a default, it was revealed that the corporation had never given permission to TPPL to create such a right. As a result, the bank could not create a second right over the assets.
 
 The prosecution further said that investigations by the bank revealed that several documents, including inland bills that provide details of goods being transported, such as quantity, type and destination were fabricated. They claimed manipulated and distorted balance sheets, provisional balance sheet and projected balance sheet were submitted by TPPL in June 1998 to avail of increased credit limits. Moreover, the auditors confirmed that the borrowers had altered the figures in the financial statements to avail of more finance from the bank. Mantri was accused of recommending huge enhancements in credit limits without verifying the documents and not insisting on production of originals prior to releasing sanctioned limits.
 
 
