NEW DELHI: Delhi Metro’s   drive at 10 stations, started on January 1, made a rocky start with commuters stranded in long queues at half of these stations, reprising the scenes outside banks and ATMs across the country in the last couple of months.

 Happily, though, the   (DMRC) was bold enough to defer the trial by the end of Monday.
 
 Arvind Kejriwal, Delhi CM, berated the trial on Sunday itself, promising to hold an inquiry into the decision of DMRC to offer only one e-wallet vendor, Paytm, to customers in its   drive.
 
 DMRC conducted the cashless drive in Rohini East and West, MG Road, Mayur Vihar Phase I, Nirman Vihar, Tilak Nagar, Janakpuri West, Noida Sector 15,  , and Kailash Colony. 
 
 According to the plan, commuters could travel from these stations only using smart cards or by buying tokens through Paytm and, consequently, these stations kept only one counter open for cash transactions. 
 
 By Monday evening, however, DMRC put out a statement saying: “Application of e-wallets in present form are not suitable for our use due to large volume of transactions. Therefore all other digital options of making payment over the counters are being re-examined. However, all existing aspects offered towards digitalization for commuters mentioned are continuing.”
 
 Across the 10 stations that the TOI surveyed, the drive was a mixed bag. The four counters selling tokens at the MG Road station continued to run entirely on cash-mode with scores of people lined up in front of them during the morning rush hour. 
 
 The situation was similar at the Rohini stations, where commuters preferred using cash to buy tokens. At the Mayur Vihar Phase I station, DMRC shut down all cash counters, deploying three token-vending machines. With only one of it working, commuters stood in long queues during the morning office hours. 
 
 Also, DMRC had no one to guide commuters, most of whom had never used a vending machine. “They have closed the cash counters; only one token-vending machine is working here and there is no one to guide us,” Sagnik Banerjee, a local resident, said.
 
 Bhupendra Singh, at Rohini East station, said he had never used e-wallets before. “Cash facility should also be available for those who do not have cards or mobile wallet apps. These decisions do more harm than good,” he said. 
 
 Some commuters, though, were very positive of the drive. “It is a good initiative and can succeed if it is planned well,” Shreya Gupta, a student, said. 
 
 “We are running an awareness drive by distributing pamphlets and educating commuters about the various available modes of payment; one POS machine is operational at the smart card recharge counter. The idea is to turn the station into less-cash, not cashless,” an official said.
 
 
