GURGRAM:   on Thursday issued a statement, assuring residents the city’s   will improve soon, and announced an increase in the number of   from three to eight. He has been under pressure, after the supply got disrupted regularly for last two months, leading to   in different parts of the city.

 But the announcement is unlikely to have any impact on water supply in the city’s old sectors (1-57), which are facing a crisis over the past two months due to continuous disruption in water supply as a result of leakage, damage to pipes and shifting of pipelines for other infrastructural work. The new water supply zones 4-8 will cater to the requirements of new sectors (58-115) currently being developed along the Southern Peripheral Road (SPR) and Northern Peripheral Road (NPR), with hundreds of residential and commercial projects at different stages of completion here. People who have moved into their new houses in these sectors are currently dependent either on groundwater or tankers.
 
 The first disruption in the old sectors this year happened when supply was stopped for maintenance in March. The second was when pipelines were shifted at Hero Honda and Iffco chowks for construction of underpasses in April, followed by the pipeline damage at Iffco Chowk and Sector 5 the same month. A week ago, there was a pipeline damage in Sector 52, and then on Tuesday, another pipeline was damaged in sectors 4 and 5. “Since the beginning of summer, water supply has been disrupted every now and then,” said Sector 46 resident Santosh Mishra, adding the government assures it will fix the problem every year, but nothing happens afterwards.
 
 Singh described unauthorised connections and shifting of pipelines as major reasons for disruption, and observed there are reports that at in many places, people connect the main pipeline directly with their home supply, leading to damage and disruption. However, he held back from ordering strict action against unauthorised connections. “We urge people to construct underground tanks to store water, instead of connecting their supplies with the mains,” he said.
 
 Gurgaon has three boosting stations in sectors 51, 16 and 5. Water reaches these through the master pipeline from two water treatment plants (WTP) at Basai and Chandu Budhera, and is then distributed to different sectors. Boosting stations supply overhead water tanks in different sectors, which release water for households twice daily.
 
 “To streamline the supply in news zones 4-8, there is a plan to build a new boosting station, which will ensure water reaches the tail-end of the pipeline. We’re in the process of acquiring land for this,” said Singh, adding that 90% of the work of laying pipeline for new sectors is over.
 
 At present, the city needs 90 million gallons per day (MGD) of water, of which 70 MGD comes from the Basai plant, while the remaining 20 MGD comes from Chandu Budhera. The two plants get Yamuna water from Kakroi village in Sonipat, through the 70km-long Gurgaon Water Channel and NCR Channel. To meet emergencies, the WTPs have a reserve storage capacity of 300 MGD each. “Chandu Budhera can store 14 days supply, while Basai has capacity for 5 days,” said Singh.
 
 
