KOCHI: Five months after   ordered the   to measure the land that has been encroached on both sides of  , the district revenue officials have finally woken up to   

 District collector K Mohammed Y Safirulla on Tuesday issued an order directing revenue officials to conduct survey of Chilavanoor lake, running through Elamkulam and Maradu villages where encroachment by big commercial establishments is on the rise.
 
 The survey is conducted to measure the area, encroached by various institutions, commercial establishments and individuals on both sides of the kayal. The survey procedures will start within a few days since the report should be submitted to the collector before May 23. Resurvey of the kayal will also be done by the officials in order to fix the boundaries. A team of 7 officials were appointed to do the survey. In the order, the Collector has has also asked to keep the district survey superintendent informed of the daily progress of the survey.
 
 The high court in its order on December 15, 2016, asked the local authorities to conduct a survey and finalize the boundaries after measuring the encroached lands. However, the officials are wary of the resistance from the commercial establishments that encroached the lands.
 
 Collector confirmed, "I have ordered to conduct the survey of the lake."
 
 "Once the survey is done, further action will be initiated by Fort Kochi sub collector Adheela Abdulla and she has been authorized for the same. The controversial residential building of DLF is also situated on the bank of the lake and that land will also be brought under the survey. The government has already allotted Rs 5 lakhs for carrying out survey procedures in the lake", said an official in the collectorate.
 
 The last time a survey was conducted and the boundary of the backwater fixed in 2006. National Centre for Earth Science Studies in its report 'Coastal Zone Management Plan' for Kochi Corporation had reported around 40 reclamations in Elamkulam - Chilavanoor sector.
 
 Meanwhile, another order of the   to conduct survey on both sides of the Vembanad lake is yet to be executed by the revenue department. The survey is supposed to study the depth of encroachment and coastal regulation zone violations.
 
