TIRUNELVELI: From being a new kid on the block in the   squad during the inaugural edition of   in 2016 to becoming a vital cog this year,   has come a long way. If his 9 outings for Patriots last season yielded 140 runs and 12 wickets, the 17-year-old has gone on to become Patriots’ key player this year. Be it opening the batting, bowling in the Power-Play overs or even fielding at backward point region --- Washington is doing it all.

 So what has changed in the last 12 months? Washington owes a lion’s share of his on-field success to an uncluttered mind. “I don’t put any pressure on myself and do not set any targets as well. If the processes are in place, the results will be taken care of. The focus is to play with freedom and enjoy the game,” Washington told TOI on Monday, eve of the team’s next game against   here. 
 
 While Washington --- the bowler --- made a mark in this year’s Indian Premier League season for Rising Pune Supergiant, it was time for his batting skills to come to the fore. Washington, who already has 180 runs with two half-centuries and 7 scalps to his name from 3 outings this season, began gearing up for the   much before it actually commenced. “I concentrated a lot on power-hitting and laid emphasis on clearing the ropes on a regular basis. While I didn’t work with anyone in particular, my aim was to be in the best possible shape before this tournament. As an opener in the team my job is to give the side a good start,” he said.
 
 Washington felt Patriots’ mentor Monty Desai did play a role in him blossoming into an all-round T20 product. “Monty gives you a lot of positive vibes. There is not an iota of negativity in him and that rubs off on the entire team. The way he helps you prepare for a game and his clarity of thought is something we have imbibed,” Washington said.
 
 Despite everything going his way, Washington isn’t taking anything for granted. “I have learnt never to get ahead of myself. I am relishing the opportunity to contribute in all facets of the game for my team and that’s what I have always looked to do,” said Washington. Meanwhile, Dinesh Karthik joined the Patriots side on Monday. “His presence will definitely be a big boost for the team. He brings a lot of experience to the team,” Washington said.
 
 
