HYDERABAD: The much-touted plan for building a new   complex has been put off indefinitely by the state government. Sources told TOI, a sharp dip in revenue following   emerged as a key factor in shelving the plan. Also, reluctance of the AP government to vacate buildings under its control in the secretariat complex, is another reason for putting the plan on the back-burner. Consequently, proposed shifting of offices from the secretariat to alternate locations has been put off, it was learnt. The relocation was originally scheduled for November along with bhoomi puja. Buildings, including BRK Bhavan, Arayana Bhavan and Gruhakalpa were identified for accommodating offices from the secretariat during the construction phase.

 Chief minister   finalized secretariat building plans three months ago. Construction was expected to cost Rs 500 crore. The cabinet had passed a resolution in October 2016, requesting AP government to hand over secretariat buildings. The CM also met Governor ESL Narasimhan and handed over a copy of the cabinet resolution, urging him to use his good office to help Telangana take over the buildings under AP control.
 
 Sources said the government was going slow on its new secretariat plan as state coffers were badly hit after demonetisation. The chief minister went on record in the Assembly recently that revenues were impacted in November and December and January 2017 revenue figures would give more clarity on demonetisation impact on the state. Since the government has other priorities, including paying farm-loan waiver instalment and fee-reimbursement dues, it decided to put off construction plans for some more time.
 
 Telangana government is still waiting to hear from the AP government on handing over office blocks under its control. As of now, A, B, C and D blocks are under Telangana’s possession, while J, K, L and H blocks were allotted to AP during bifurcation.
 
 Speaking to TOI, principal secretary, transport, roads and buildings, Sunil Sharma, said, “The state government has not taken any decision on construction of new secretariat, including shifting of departments to temporary buildings.”
 
 After the government assumed power in Telangana, new buildings were proposed for the secretariat. In January, 2015, chief minister announced construction of a new secretariat on 72 acres of Chest Hospital land and even sanctioned Rs 150 crore for it. The proposal was later dropped, following opposition from political parties, heritage conservationists and hospital employees.
 
 After the government unveiled fresh plans, some organizations and individuals approached high court against the government's decision as it involves huge expenditure. The government said it was proposing demolition as the buildings were not fire-complaint. The high court asked the government not to demolish the existing buildings till further orders. But, it has not stayed government plans to shift departments and other programmes like bhoomi pooja, officials said.
 
 
