GREATER NOIDA: Pankaj Singh’s first foray into the electoral battle didn’t quite go to script.

 First, the entourage that BJP cobbled together for home minister Rajnath Singh’s son was a group that included the party’s local general secretary, Sanjay Bali, who had only two days ago revolted against Singh’s candidature and threatened to contest against him. Also present was sitting MLA Vimla Batham, who had stayed away from Singh’s public event 24 hours ago.
 
 Second, there was more dissension in the BJP ranks as Pankaj Kaushik, who like Bali is a representative of Gautam Budh Nagar MP and Union minister Mahesh Sharma, resigned from the party. He had the same complaint as Bali — BJP para-dropping “outsiders” into Noida.
 
 And third, the day ended with an FIR being filed against Singh and his supporters for violating the model code of conduct while filing nomination papers as BJP’s candidate from Noida at the District Collectorate. The transgression was that six-seven vehicles in Singh’s motorcade came within 100 metres of the nomination booth. 
 
 But through Tuesday, Singh put up a brave face. Asked about Bali’s revolt, he said all those allegedly staging a revolt were campaigning with him now. He also said he had the blessings of BJP’s former MLA from Dadri, Nawab Singh Nagar, who too was absent. 
 
 Like on Monday, Singh dismissed talk of him being an outsider. “I am working for the party for the past 15 years and the party has given a ticket to its candidate. People will analyse that in their own way,” he said. Asked why Noida was chosen for his candidature, he termed it a “decision of the party”. 
 
 Sharma said Singh has been given a ticket because of valid reasons: “He has not got the position just because he is the son of the home minister.” 
 
 Interestingly, former Union minister and four-time MP from Khurja-Noida, Ashok Pradhan, who had re-joined BJP last Friday after a three-year stint with the SP, also joined Singh during the nomination. 
 
 Bali, meanwhile, said he would campaign for Singh. Batham hinted she might get a different role after losing the Noida candidature.
 
  “It is the party’s decision. Pankaj Singh is also our worker for the past 15-16 years and we will support him from the Noida seat. I am sure the party would have thought of something else for us,” she said.
 
 That optimism didn’t quite permeate through the ranks. Pankaj Kaushik, associated with BJP for almost 25 years and general secretary of the Jewar unit, quit, accusing Sharma of letting down the region. He cited demonetisation as another reason for his resignation. “The MP has failed to deliver on his promise of making Dankaur a religious tourist place and ignored farmers, unemployed and traders,” Kaushik said in a statement issued on Tuesday. 
 
 He was also upset with candidature of Noida and Jewar being given to “outsiders”. BJP has given the Dadri seat to Thakur Dhirendra Singh, who joined the saffron party after quitting Congress.
 
 Police in Greater Noida, meanwhile, booked Singh and his supporters for violation of the model code. One of vehicles that allegedly violated the 100-metre rule included a white Range Rover (UK07BP5960) registered under the name of Uma Medicare Limited. Uma Sharma, the MP’s wife, is managing director of the company. Surajpur SHO Anuj Kumar confirmed the case had been filed. An inquiry will now be conducted by the returning officer. Deputy election officer Kumar Vineet said the violation will be looked into and expenditure for the vehicles would be added to the party’s expenses.
 
 
