PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Sons of two retired policemen from Pimpri Chinchwad were elected on   (BJP) tickets in the civic elections. In fact,   are first-time corporators.

 This is also the first time that anybody from either of their families has actively participated in politics. More was elected from panel number 19, Udyognagar-Pimpri camp, defeating former   by a margin of 4,564 votes.
 
 37-year-old More was in fact born while his father police constable Prakash More and mother Sharada lived in Chinchwad police lines located near Pimpri police station. He completed his education up to Std XII but had to give up further education due to family problems. Initially, More worked as a salesman with an automobile showroom in Akurdi. As of now, he is runs a business that deals in real estate.
 
 "I got into politics after coming into contact with BJP leader Azam Pansare, who was then in the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). I contested the 2012 municipal elections but was defeated due to internal politics. Later, I joined the BJP," said More, recalling his entry into politics.
 
 Quick completion of the Empire Estate flyover is among More's priorities. "I will also focus on rehabilitation of slums in the ward, constructing public toilets in Anandnagar slum and maintaining cleanliness in the ward," he added.
 
 Hinge (36) defeated NCP candidate Dilip Datir Patil by 5,791 votes to claim panel number 10, Sambhajinagar-Morwadi. Hinge secured 11,299 votes while Patil secured 5,508 votes.
 
 His parents, policeman Raghunath Hinge and housewife Mira, lived in Chinchwad police lines in the 1980s. He studied up to FY BCom in Chinchwad and is an industrialist. His father retired as a police sub-inspector from the force. In 2012, when Hinge contested the civic polls as a Shiv Sena candidate, he was defeated by a margin of around 200 votes.
 
 "I will try to provide basic amenities to residents of government quarters in the city, particularly at the police lines. The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) must provide basic amenities. Chinchwad police lines falls in my ward," Hinge said.
 
 Another successful candidate, who is related to a retired policeman, is Mamata Gaikwad. She is the daughter-in-law of retired police constable Ramesh Gaikwad and wife to former NCP corporator Vinayak Gaikwad, who defected to BJP before the civic elections. Gaikwad was elected from panel number 26, Venu Nagar-Pimple Nilakh Gaothan.
 
 She has already set up a network of women's self-help groups in Wakad. Gaikwad shared, "I will work for women empowerment and ensure that maximum number of plots reserved in the development plan (DP) for various civic amenities in my panel ward are acquired and developed at the earliest."
 
