Puducherry: The Puducherry government asked the Union government to provide Rs 100 crore   assistance to the Union territory of Puducherry. The legislative assembly passed a resolution to this effect when it convened on Tuesday.

 Chief minister V  , while moving the resolution said, failure of monsoon and delay in receiving fair share of Cauvery water had led to drought in the territory. 
 
 Karaikal, which was allotted seven TMC Cauvery water received meager 0.051 TMC so far. Karaikal district, which on an average receives 986mm rainfall annually, during northeast monsoon received a meager 283mm rainfall. 
 
 Puducherry district which receives an average rainfall of 1,323mm received just 637mm. The crops — mostly paddy and sugarcane — raised in more than 8,000 hectares have been affected by the drought, he said.
 
 The loss has been estimated to a tune of Rs 100 crore, he said, and urged the Union government to send a central team to assess the extent of damage of crops due to drought and extend drought assistance at the earliest.
 
 Earlier, while responding to a plea of AIADMK legislature party leader A Anbalagan, Narayanasamy said the government will install a bronze statue for the late Tamil Nadu chief minister J Jayalalithaa in Puducherry. He said the government will soon form a committee to select an ideal site for installing the statue.
 
 Tabling a resolution, Narayanasamy paid rich tribute to the late AIADMK leader. He said her bold approach and actions in any front and podium always centered on the welfare and progression of the Tamil people. 
 
 Recalling his association with her, he said she played a major role in clearing the impasse in inaugurating the Kudankulam nuclear power project. A popular leader among the Tamil masses, she will remain in the memory of people forever, he said.
 
 Speaker of the legislative assembly V Vaithiligam recalled the late leader’s concern for the Union territory of Puducherry and pointed out that she ensured uninterrupted power supply to Puducherry despite failing to clear arrears on time. 
 
 The leader of opposition and AINRC founder leader N Rangasamy, agriculture minister R Kamalakannan, Anbalagan, DMK MLA R Siva and independent MLA V Ramachandran also paid rich tributes to the late AIADMK leader.
 
 The legislative assembly also passed resolutions condoling the deaths of former Tamil Nadu governor Surjit Singh Barnala, former minister V M C Sivakumar and former deputy speaker A V Sreedharan.
 
 
