CHENNAI: Soon after meeting chief minister O Panneerselvam to extend her support to him, Tirupur MP V Sathyabama said she backed V K   hoping that she would take the AIADMK on the path of greater success. “But what later happened was that people who betrayed the party and got punished by Amma were given huge responsibilities and party posts,’’ she said.

 It did not take much time for those in AIADMK circles in Tirupur to guess that she was attacking K A Sengottayan, who was sidelined by late chief minister J Jayalalithaa since 2011, but whom Sasikala had made party organizing secretary. There has been talk in the party that Sengottayan is a potential chief ministerial candidate. Interestingly, Sathyabama was mentored by Sengottayan but she fell out with him after he was sidelined by Jaya.
 
 The statements of Namakkal MP P R Sundaram were similar in tone, only that he chose to attack Lok Sabha deputy speaker Thambidurai. “When everyone was in grief during Jayalalathaa’s funeral, he was combing his hair at Rajaji hall,’’ Sundaram said after switching camps. He further said that Thambidurai took the party MPs for a ride when he herded them to Prime Minister’s office without getting a proper appointment. Intriguingly neither Sathyabama nor Sundaram attacked Sasikala directly but hit out at these local heavyweights. AIADMK men say Sundaram has a long-standing feud with electricity minister P Thangamani who also hails from Namakkal.
 
 So what appears to lie behind switching of camps by many AIADMK leaders in western Tamil Nadu is not just anger against Sasikala, but power struggle and one-upmanship. In Coimbatore, Kavundampalayam MLA V C Arukutty who was among first to support   was sidelined by rural administration minister S P Velumani, in Sasikala camp. “Those with Sasikala now are selfish people who hate genuine AIADMK loyalists rising to power,” said Arukutty.
 
 Others like former minister P V Damodaran and former Mayor P Rajkumar were also sidelined by Velumani. Close associates of Rajkumar say that it was because of Velumani that he did not get an MLA ticket in the recent assembly elections. In Salem too, those who moved to OPS camp, like former MLAs Venkatachalam and S K Selvam, are rivals of Edapadi Palanisamy, a strong supporter of Sasikala.
 
 
