PANAJI:   of India’s (CPI) long quest for success in Goa’s assembly and   polls will be scaled down for February 4, as its die-hard poll veteran for 30 years, Christopher  , has decided not to contest this time.

 Fonseca, who first contested in 1986 and has since stood tall among the losers in the assembly and Lok Sabha polls, will be joined by another veteran, Raju Mangueshkar. Both will be content to campaign for their party’s two candidates, to be announced soon, sources said.
 
 A decade ago, Fonseca and activist Matanhy Saldanha were die-hard aspirants who towered over other consistent losers. 
 
 But the former tourism minister, with whom Fonseca fought the ramponkar issue and other social issues, merged his Gomant Lok Pokx party to contest on a United Goans Democratic Party (UGDP) ticket in 2002. With Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) support in Cortalim, Saldanha tasted success. In 2012, he joined   and was re-elected from Cortalim.
 
 That made Fonseca a unique figure in the political landscape, but his quest continued.
 
 Fonseca said that he is not afraid to face defeat. “In any efficient system, there is a pause button, and I have only pressed the pause button for now,” he said.
 
 Mangueshkar, trade unionist and his long-time comrade-in-arm, admits in a moment of frankness, “We are masters in losing elections.” 
 
 But Fonseca says they do not regret losses in elections. “We look at an election as an occasion to celebrate, an opportunity to meet people right across the social and economic spectrum, present our viewpoint, and make more friends and establish lasting relationships,” he said.
 
 Fonseca, a trade unionist for four decades, has undertaken indefinite hunger strikes on nine occasions for various causes and led a 50-day walk across Goa in late 1970s to collect funds for a Konkani daily, Novem Goem. Perhaps, this people connect and his work for the worker community and marginalized sections boosted his confidence.
 
 His political canvass has been wide, as he contested from Cortalim and Cumbharjua segments twice, and Pale, Siolim and Panaji once each in assembly polls. He also contested thrice from North Goa in the Lok Sabha polls. Out of seven assembly contests, one was a by-poll in Cumbharjua.
 
 The electorate generally gravitates towards a formidable candidate with a battalion of vocal and passionate supporters, he says. “A clean record of personal life and service defines a winning candidate. Panch members and councilors with support from clubs or some organizations have an advantage,” he said.
 
 Asked if he would have been a legislator if he had changed parties, he said, “Neither I nor my colleagues have been opportunists”. 
 
 Summing up CPI’s lack of success, Mangueshkar said that unfortunately, money plays a big role. “People approach us to take up labour, social and other issues, but the story is different at election time,” he said.
 
 
