Amritsar: Jazzinder Singh, the man believed to have abducted GNDU assistant professor Sukhpreet Kaur, evaded police arrest on the sixth day as well. Meanwhile, the family members have started an online petition ‘Save Dr Sukhpreet Kaur’ and demanded transferring the investigation to the CBI.

 Amritsar deputy commissioner police (DCP) Lakhbir Singh told TOI on Tuesday that the Jazzinder aka Garry Virk’s car was spotted on the Jaipur-Vadodara road. On Monday, the same vehicle was spotted at a toll plaza on the Delhi-Jaipur road. “Maybe he is trying to travel to Mumbai but we have already dispatched one of our teams to track him,” said Lakhbir. However, he said he wasn’t sure if Sukhpreet was travelling in the same vehicle.
 
 Sukhpreet’s younger brother Sukhdeep Singh, the brain behind the online petition to save his sister, expressed resentment over police not being able to intercept the vehicle. “Police are also sending their parties to Jaipur or Mumbai. They should also form a team to trace Sukhpreet in Punjab,” he said, adding, “We now want the case to be transferred to the CBI.”
 
 “We hope she remains safe before police rescue her,” he said.
 
 Sukhpreet, who lived in the GNDU campus, had gone to meet Garry Virk in a restaurant near GNDU on September 11. Before leaving her room, she had left a note saying that she was going to meet Garry in a restaurant near GNDU. “He has to pay me some money which he borrowed from me,” she wrote in the note.
 
 She had also written Garry’s address and his telephone numbers. Sukhpreet had also written, “If anything happens to me, he is responsible.” However, police came to know about the teacher having gone missing on September 14.
 
 Sukhdeep said his sister was a role model for all rural girl students of Punjab who dream to do something big in life. Sukhpreet had done MA (Hindi), M Phil and PhD. She had studied from Dev Samaj College for Women, Ferozepur.
 
 The online petition ‘Save Dr Sukhpreet Kaur’ has obtained over 2,000 signatures. “We will send petition to Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh, cabinet minister Navjot Singh Sidhu and director general of police Suresh Arora,” said Sukhdeep.
 
 Meanwhile, Sukhpreet’s mentor and professor in Dev Samaj College for Women, Ambuj Sharma said the students and faculty of the college had organized a candle light march for Sukhpreet. “She was a brilliant student and we all wish for her safe return,” he said.
 
 
