NEW DELHI: The Comptroller and Auditor General has found severe deficiencies in the performance of the reproductive and   scheme under the  . 

 A   report, tabled in Parliament on Friday, has said that the financial management under the Mission was not satisfactory, with more than Rs 9,500 crore lying unspent with State Health Societies in 2015-16. 
 
 The audit has found shortfall in the availability of physical infrastructure, non-availability of essential drugs, equipment lying unutilised, and shortages of doctors and paramedical staff in the schemes implemented under the NRHM. “The institutional framework was either not in place or was not effective in assuring quality of services across all levels viz. national, state, district and facility,” the report observed.
 
 The NRHM was launched in April 2005 with the objective of providing accessible, affordable and quality health care to the rural population, especially the vulnerable sections. The Reproductive and Child Health (RCH) programme is a primary sub-component of NRHM and aims at improving the health outcome indicators, viz., Infant Mortality Rate and Maternal Mortality Ratio, also mentioned in the Millennium Development Goals.
 
 The key features to achieve the goals of the Mission include making the public health delivery system fully functional and accountable to the community, human resource management, rigorous monitoring and evaluation against standards. In its earlier review of the NRHM programme till 2010, the CAG audit had observed various deficiencies in fund flow management, planning and monitoring, community participation, convergence, infrastructure development and capacity building, procurement and supply of medicines and equipment.
 
 The expenditure on the programme was Rs 1,06,179 crore during 2011-16. Considering the substantial investment in the programme and as RCH indices were pursued under the Millennium Development Goals for laying the foundation for a healthy mother and child, it was decided to take up the performance audit of the Reproductive and Child Health under NRHM to review its progress.
 
 This performance audit covered the period from 2011-12 to 2015-16. The findings say financial management at both central and state levels was not satisfactory with substantial amounts persistently remaining unspent with the State Health Societies at the end of each year. In 27 states, the unspent amount increased from Rs 7,375 crore in 2011-12 to Rs 9,509 crore in 2015-16.
 
 The CAG said in six states of Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Jammu and Kashmir, Rajasthan, Telangana and Tripura, Rs 36 crore was diverted to other schemes.
 
 
