With the right riff, rhythm and rapport, the Indian blues act that stole the coveted slot at the upcoming   from twenty others was  .

 Over the last six years, the Festival in its efforts to nurture the twelve-bar community has been on a quest for newer, younger talent among the country's blues bands via the  .
 
 Based on popular votes on their one-minute video entries, the three finalists who made it to the battleground in True School of Music in Lower Parel were Polly Wants a Cracker from Bangalore, and Blu and Nok Nok both from Delhi. From traditional delta style to rock-and reggae inspired originals, each took turns to cover the entire spectrum of blues prompting judges Ehsaan Noorani and Loy Mendonsa of musical trio Shankar-Ehsaan-Loy to appeal if they could award all three before handing over the winning trophy to Blu.
 
 “You guys are buddies and that translates into your music and your vibe on stage,“ smiled Loy while Ehsaan who nurses a strong affection for the blues expressed his delight at the number of young artistes aspiring to play the genre.
 
 But winning the competition is only one of the many goals the band strives for.“While, it's going to be an honour to be a part of a roster that has such brilliant artistes, it gives us greater impetus to keep playing and may be record a few EPs that we've been planning for a while.Blues might take different shapes but it will never die out,“ stresses Pranai Gurung, guitarist of Blu.
 
 Blu was formed in 2015 after the boys from Kalimpong, Kohima and Darjeeling moved to Delhi more than ten years ago to pursue their passion. Today they straddle blues, country and soul with flair. If Pranai is at ease with jazz, bebop, funk and pop, his other bandmates Kapil Chhetri is credited for bringing the raw Mississippi sound to the group, Rahul Rai their bassist is a prominent session musician while Chewang Lama heads the drums department in the Delhi School of Music.
 
 “All of us teach music by day and perform the blues by day and perform the blues by night,“ says Pranai. And what drives them to keep afloat a genre that is a declining?
 “Blues is like a conversation between two people. It's about feelings more than technique. And no matter what you play , if you're able to connect with those listening to you, your battle is won.“
 
 While their originals '15 years', `Delta Dreaming' and a Piedmont-style cover won over the judges, their playlist on February 11 and 12 promises to woo the Festival goers when they take over the garden stage with their mix of standards and original tunes.
 
 
 
 
