PATNA: Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) chief   on Monday said it’s quite an irony that at a time when the entire world is following Mahatma Gandhi’s ideals of non-violence and truth, his (Gandhi’s) own country has such a government that is making all out efforts to glorify his assassin Nathuram Godse.

 Addressing a strong gathering of Congress Seva Dal volunteers and party workers after unveiling a statue of Gandhi on the occasion of his 70th Martyrdom Day at Sadaquat Ashram here, Choudhary called upon the Congress functionaries to take the ideals of Gandhi to each villages across Bihar and prepare themselves to give a befitting reply to those forces which are trying to enforce the wrong ideology of Godse on ‘this Karmabhoomi of Mahatma’.
 
 A bronze statue of Gandhi was installed at Sadaquat Ashram on Monday to mark 100th year of his visit to Champaran in Bihar. The state government has already announced a series of programmes at various places across Bihar where Gandhi had visited in 1917 to lead an agitation of indigo farmers against oppression of British men. 
 
 Choudhary said these days certain forces owing allegiance to the RSS are making attempts at different places in the BJP-ruled states to hold meetings to eulogise the act of Godse. “Some organisations are also making attempts to install statue of Godse, but Congress workers should be ready to thwart any such nefarious bid of separatist forces,” the BPCC chief said.
 
 He lauded the efforts made by two state Congress functionaries – Sanjay Sinha and Uday Sharma – in getting the statue ready in a shortest possible period.
 
 State’s registration and prohibition minister Abdul Jalil Mastan, former minister Ramdev Rai and Bihar Pradesh Mahila Congress president Amita Bhushan also addressed the gathering and called upon the partymen to follow in the footsteps of Gandhi.
 
 BPCC chief leaves for Punjab: BPCC chief and Bihar’s education minister Ashok Choudhary on Monday left for Delhi from where he would go to Punjab on Tuesday for a three-day campaigning in favour of the party candidates contesting assembly polls in the state. “Choudhary will reach Ludhiana around 11am on January 31. He will campaign in favour of Congress candidates in four constituencies – Ludhiana east, Ludhiana centre, Ludhiana west and Ludhiana south,” BPCC chief spokesperson   told TOI.
 
 “On February 1, Choudhary will campaign in Khanna Amaleh, Fatehgarh and Mohali constituencies and on February 2, he will hold a meeting with senior functionaries of  ,” Verma added.
 
