HYDERABAD: Justice A Shankar Narayana of the Hyderabad high court has directed the   to explain the alleged errors in the evaluation of the biology answer paper of a second-year student. The court gave the authorities time till June 1 to file their reply.

 The judge was dealing with a petition filed by Peeta Jyothirmayee from   in   district who alleged that the authorities had tampered with her Zoology answer sheet. This mishandling had pushed her down to the fourth rank in the state. 
 
 According to her counsel  , she would have emerged as the state topper had the authorities assessed the answer sheet in a fair manner. The difference between the first and the fourth ranker was only four marks. While the topper got a total of 991 marks, the petitioner got 987 marks. She did exceptionally well in all the subjects and was confident of getting very good marks in zoology in particular, her counsel said. But the results dashed her hopes. Sensing some foul play, her father obtained the copies of the answer sheets from the board through her college. 
 
 Even a cursory perusal of these answer sheets would reveal the fact that they were tampered with, the petitioner’s counsel said and showed to the court the zoology answer sheet. “There are over-writings and manipulations on this sheet. Though the man who evaluated the sheet gave 6 marks to the first question, it was altered subsequently to 4 marks. Similarly, the second question fetched her 5 marks, it too was altered to 4. For the third question, the petitioner got 14 marks, but this too was altered and she was given 12 marks. In fact the cover page of the answer sheet was showing that the petitioner got 30 out of 30 in zoology. But inside, it was altered to 26,” the counsel for the petitioner said and attributed the mess to a criminal nexus between the board and certain private colleges. 
 
 The fact that the manual corrections made were not attested by the examiner goes to show that there was a fraud in the whole episode, he said and sought a probe into this murky deal happening in Andhra Pradesh. He also sought a re-evaluation of the zoology paper by a subject expert and the result with the reassessment record should be furnished to the court, the counsel said. 
 
 The judge too found that there appears to be prima facie truth in the allegations and sought a counter from the AP Intermediate Board by June 1, the date on which the matter will be heard again.
 
