CHANDIGARH: In an order that would have wide ramifications, especially   of aspirants joining the armed forces, the Punjab and Haryana high court has held that a medical fitness test report given by   under the court directions couldn’t be ignored and treated as ‘waste paper.’
 
 The HC was of the view that if doubt arises in the mind of the court on the medical report of armed forces, “it would not be unnatural for the Court to look for outside opinion on which it can place faith and trust.”
 
 Justice Rajiv Narain Raina, while allowing a petition filed by Karnal resident Vikrant, passed these orders. The petitioner had successfully steered through the selection process for an airman in the Indian Air Force but was rejected upon discovery of a medical condition ‘external haemorrhoids’ by the IAF’s medical board.
 
 Though a medical examination conducted by Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, had found him medically fit, the IAF, however, had refused accepting that report.
 
 “The scope of interference in defence matters is ordinarily narrow and restricted. But to argue that medical reports from civil hospitals under Court directions has to be ruled out of consideration and reduce them to waste paper would be blocking reason and toeing the Air Force line asininely,” observed Justice Raina.
 
 The judge also clarified, “I do not think it would be fair and just to lay down as an inflexible proposition of law or rule that medical reports of defence authorities in the matter of recruitment are impregnable.”
 
 The order would have huge ramifications, as on several occasions the youths aspiring to join armed forces have to knock the door of high court when after they are declared medically unfit by the medical board of armed forces but declared fit by the civilian medical institutes.
 
 The petitioner’s candidature for the post of airman in the IAF was rejected on medical grounds. After this, the petitioner underwent treatment for external haemorrhoids and a surgery was performed on August 14, 2015. Though he was completely cured of the disease, the appellate medical board still declared him unfit.
 
 Aggrieved with the decision, the petitioner approached the HC after which the court ordered to constitute a special medical board of PGI doctors in March 2017 for medical examination of the petitioner. As per the experts report, submitted in May, the panel of PGI found him medically fit.
 
 The IAF, however, had refused to accept the PGI report on the grounds that the norms for fitness for a civil post and for posts in   are quite different.
 
 Allowing the petition, HC has directed the IAF authorities to re-consider the matter in the light of the opinion expressed by the PGI and to consider the desirability of offering appointment to the petitioner within a month or two.
 
 HC observations
 
 It would not be unnatural for the court to look for outside opinion on which it can place faith and trust.
 
 To argue that medical reports from civil hospitals under Court directions has to be ruled out of consideration and reduce them to waste paper would be blocking reason and toeing the Air Force line asininely.
 
 It would be fair and just to lay down as an inflexible proposition of law or rule that medical reports of defence authorities in the matter of recruitment are impregnable.
 
 
