SURAT: Residents in Diamond City won’t face   for years to come. Thanks to   (SMC) for setting up a water supply gird network to tide over the problem of scarcity, equitable distribution of water and maintaining raw  .

 SMC’s hydraulic department on Tuesday completed the grid network connecting Kosad waterworks to Katargam water distribution station (WDS). 
 
 The daily supply from Katargam WDS was 100 MLD and the grid network will allow transfer of 40 MLD from Kosad waterworks. The spare water from Katargam WDS will meet the ever growing water demand from the 13 coastal villages in  , including Dumas, Bhimpore, Abhava, Magdalla etc. 
 
 Like in the electricity supply, the hydraulic department has set up a grid system in its existing water supply network in the city. In case of failure of one grid, water can be supplied from the other grid through the network. This way, there will be continuity in the water supply system in the city. 
 
 The city’s daily requirement of water is 1,150 million litre per day (MLD). Around 96 per cent of the area under SMC is covered with pipeline network. There are eight waterworks namely Sarthana, Katargam, Varachha, Rander, Kosad, Mota Varachha, Simada and Dindoli from where water is distributed to the residents.
 
 SMC’s additional city engineer K H Khatwani said the grid network project has been undertaken under the guidance of municipal commissioner M Thennarasan. The city’s posh Athwa municipal zone and the migrant-dominated Limbayat zone are the areas where maximum number of households have expressed dissatisfaction over the quality of water, pressure and quantity compared to other zones. 
 
 Thus, the civic body took a bold decision to set up a 200 million litre per day (MLD) water treatment plant (WTP) at Bhesan and strengthening of the grid network at Dindoli. Once this is done, the textile units in Pandesara, including dyeing and printing mills, will get their daily supply of 60 MLD water from Valak via Dindoli distribution centre. 
 
 Khatwani added, “Raw water quality is main constraint so we are not in a position to run the water treatment plants at full capacity. The grid network will allow us to distribute the water from Tapi river, thereby maintaining the quality of raw water, which has deteriorated due to presence of water hyacinth and hydrilla.”
 
