PUNE: There has been no   of wolves around the   site in Purandar, senior Maharashtra Airport Development Company Limited (MADC) officials said.

 Vice chairman and managing director Suresh Kakani said they had a no-objection certificate from the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCP) for the project and there was no need for an environmental clearance . 
 
 “Such a clearance is required if the project area involves a river or trees. In case of the proposed airport, the land is dry and without any vegetation. There are very few trees. We haven’t noticed a   in the area and hence there is no need for a buffer zone. However, more surveys will follow,” he told TOI.
 
 Wildlife experts, who said Purandar was home to Indian grey wolves, had also said that the project will have an adverse effect on their habitat. 
 
 They said that a detailed report about four specific locations that would affect the wolf population will be submitted to the state government with a request to turn them into wildlife protection zones.
 
 “ If there are hills, rivers and trees, one needs the ministry of environment and forests clearance as in the case of the case Navi Mumbai airport project. But in Purandar’s case the project area is clear. The semi-irrigated areas will not be touched,” another MADC official said.
 
 The airport in Purandar will encompass an area of 2,376 hectares and will include seven villages.
 
 “If there is need for a buffer zone, small trees will be planted on the other side of the boundary wall of the proposed project. There cannot be huge vegetation or plantations near the airport to ensure the safety of aircraft.   rules will be adhered to,” Kakani said.
 
 Sources said the MADC intended to get all the clearances for the project. “We want to get all the clearances before the compensation package is announced so that the project doesn’t get stalled. A meeting with the ministry of defence authorities will be conducted next week so that work goes without hindrances,” another official said.
 
 Wildlife enthusiast Mihir Godbole said the forest department had the data about wolves. “We have submitted three reports to the chief conservator of forests. The forest department had conducted a one-year study on the wolves habitat last June. There is wolf population in the area and authorities should be serious about it,” he added. 
 
