PATNA: Thousands of students were seen querying about   and its effect and ways of redemption as they visited ‘Science Express’ train here on Saturday.
 
  The train, which reached platform number 10 of Patna Junction on Friday, will be stationed there till Sunday evening. The train is not only attracting students, but also teachers and locals. Altogether 32 communicators briefed visitors in 16 air-conditioned coaches of the train, which has been custom-built by the Indian Railways.
  
  Eight coaches of the train are devoted to information, case studies and materials related to various aspects of climate change. The exhibitions mounted by the environment ministry is also showcasing the underlying science, impacts, adaption activities, mitigation solutions and policy approaches in a manner that is easy to understand and interesting for not just school students, but also the masses.
  
  One of the communicators, Manju Tiwari, said, “Exhibits and activities have been put up by the department of science and technology and department of biotechnology in eight coaches. Three coaches are fitted with solar panels on the roofs.” Another communicator, Nitin, talked about reviving water harvesting methods and coral restoration.
  
  Most of the kids were engaged in solving web of life, puzzles on natural resources and questions on environmental issues.
  
  For Vipul Kumar, a Class VI student of  , the climate change compartments of the train were very informative. “I like to learn about the extinct animals and the main reason behind it. This section is full of information about dinosaurs and how they lived for a year on the earth,” said Vipul.
  
  Students interacted with the communicators, who explained posters, illustrations, working models and virtual and 3-D designs to them. They also enthusiastically used working models which showed how to reduce  .
  
  Kalpana Agarwal, a Class V student of Notre Dame Academy, who toured the train with her family members, jotted down the important information. “There are lots of information which will help me in my academics. Environmental science is one of the best subjects for me. I also learned about how to create own kitchen garden,” she said.
  
  Biotechnology and biochemistry students were too excitedly querying about chemical ecology, India’s research and development initiatives in the field of biotechnology and nature conservation with emphasis on tiger conservation. Parul Sinha, a second year student of  , said she learned about the scope of biochemistry in the country and where she can apply after her graduation.
  
  Earlier in the day, East Central Railway general manager G K Gayen inaugurated the exhibition. He said the exhibition would prove to be a boon for students who are keen to learn more about environment, climatic changes and importance of maintaining an ecological balance in the country.
