PUNE: Leaders cutting across party lines on Wednesday welcomed the decision of merging   and Phursungi as well as nine other villages in the corporation limits but the   blamed the ruling party for delaying the decision.

 The Opposition clamoured the civic administration would have been less burdened had the   been completed earlier and the financial health of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) would suffer if the state did not give any help. But the ruling BJP claimed the merger was timely and properly planned. According to NCP leaders, their party had initiated the step to merge the villages. 
 
 The BJP government had promised it would complete it quickly, but that did not happen. They claimed the   would create infrastructure management issues. “Even after three years of forming the state government, the BJP failed to solve the problem,” said Chetan Tupe, the leader of Opposition in PMC.
 
 Tupe said illegal constructions were rampant in the past three years in these villages and roads were encroached upon. It would be tough for the PMC to manage these problems, he added. Arvind Shinde, the leader of the Congress in the PMC, said, “The financial pressure is huge on the civic body. Abolition of taxes such as LBT has reduced the income sources. If the state government does not give any financial help to PMC, the whole civic body will collapse. The state government should make a commitment of providing financial help to the PMC for smooth merger.”
 
 Ajay Shinde, the city unit chief of MNS, said, “It will be a big task to manage the daily affairs of these villages. The state government should make sure that the civic body gets manpower to deal with the needs.”
 
 The ruling BJP leaders in the PMC expressed their satisfaction over the merger. “The civic body has been helping these villages over the years. It has been providing basic services such as roads, water and garbage management. So, dealing with the infrastructure issues will be easier,” said mayor Mukta Tilak.
 
 She said issues like education and sanitation would have to be dealt with. The civic body might consider cuts in the budget from PMC to meet the demands. Shreenath Bhimale, the leader of the House in the PMC, said the body would deal with the financial needs of these villages with the help of the state government. “The decision to merge the villages was taken step by step so that the civic administration was not burdened. The same process will be followed in future mergers,” he said. 
 
