HYDERABAD: Harried citizens are rising and   better watch out.In what appears to be civic vigilantism, residential colony welfare associations are gearing up to use a legal weapon against GHMC officials to find solution to the neverending problems of flooding, water logging and misuse of civic body funds. The initiative has been taken by associations in and around Alwal.

 These residents welfare associations have decided to serve notices to GHMC under Section 80 of the Civil Procedure Code (CPC), which enables citizens to initiate suits against government and public servants. As per Section 80, a lawsuit can be filed in a civil court two months after serving a legal notice.
 
 Greater Alwal Allied Services Association general secretary GV Rao told TOI, “We are a federation of more than 40 colonies. In 2016 and 2017, six colonies were flooded. These areas are Anandraonagar, Bharati Nagar Colony , Srinivasa Nagar Colony Phase-1 and Phase-2, Harijan Basti, Reddy Enclave and Prasanth Nagar. A stormwater drain through these colonies inundates them. The drain should be widened. Municipal minister KT Rama Rao said Rs 30 crore was sanctioned for widening it. But nothing has happened till now." Fed up with frequent flooding, the associations will serve a legal notice to GHMC   on October 7 for not resolving their  .
 
 “We have been paying taxes sincerely. The citizen charter of GHMC assures us of world-class infrastructure.Construction of storm-water drains and flood control is part of the services offered by the civic body . According to law of torts, liability lies with GHMC as damage is caused to the residents. This is breach of duty or negligence,“ Rao said.
 
 Senior advocate T Sriranga Rao told TOI, “A writ petition can be filed in the High Court or Supreme Court without serving a prior notice. However, there are provisions under the CPC to initiate a legal suit."
 
 GHMC officials cited fund shortage for civic problems.
 
 GHMC Commissioner B Janardhan Reddy told TOI, “Recent flooding in Alwal is due to encroachment. The nala that is supposed to be 12 metres wide had shrunk to two metres. When the city witnesses 20 cm rainfall, tanks overflow and areas get inundated. We have identified around 12,000 illegal structures on nalas across the city.“ He said the GHMC would need Rs 1,00,000 crore to provide all basic facilities to all citizens on par with big cities in other countries. There has been no increase in taxes in the past 17 years. The civic body gets only Rs 1,300 crore as property tax. The budget of GHMC is only Rs 3,000 crore per year. Of this, Rs 1,200 crore goes to salaries and Rs 200 crore towards power bills.
 
