AJMER: The   ( ) will adopt the 12.5% mark rule for all job interviews, with written exams accounting for the remaining marks.

 This new system is expected change the selection process. The commission is also drafting norms for one-time document verification of candidates who appear for different competitive examinations as well as to release a reserve list of candidates after every exam in the future.
 
 The full bench of the commission has sent these new norms to the state government for notification.
 
 RPSC chairman   said that the commission has been pursuing innovation over the last two years and PSCs of Kerala, Himachal Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Manipur, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and Tripura, among other states, had expressed their admiration for the online examination and application filing systems.
 
 Panwar, who is retiring on July 10, said that when he had joined RPSC, it had a poor image among the public. “But, in the last two years, there has been no case of paper leaks, cheating or mass cheating. In 2015, the commission recruited 43,824 candidates to different posts,” he said Panwar.
 
 He added that the process was going on and in the next three to four months, the RPSC would recruit 2,024 candidates more.
 
 The new 12.5% marks for interview will make the selection process transparent as the candidate will be evaluated by the written examination.
 
 Similarly, the reserve list will decrease litigations in courts as candidates can find out their positions in the waiting list.
 
 At present, the RPSC is conducting interviews for college lecturers after online written tests. “We have created history by declaring results online and conducting impartial examinations in the state” he said.
 
 For the first time, RPSC selected school teachers for 13,000 posts in 27 different subjects. Out of this, 12,556 selected candidates have already joined schools in the new session. By August 15, RPSC will release a list of 9,000 more senior teachers for government schools.
 
 “RPSC is the first PSC to conduct online test for junior clerks in 2013 and the evaluation was also done online,” added Panwar.
 
 “The most important task carried out by RPSC over the last two years was to declare results of the RAS preliminary examination 2016 within 17 days of the test,” he added.
 
 The commission is now awaiting the nod of the state government to start the process of conducting the RAS 2017 examination.
 
 
