AJMER: An   resident has filed an FIR against the owner of car parked outside his house.

 This is a first-of-its-kind complaint given to the police, who faced a few difficulties in framing the charges. The complaint was filed by one Prakash Jain, a resident of Kesar Ganj, whose neighbour parked his car on the street, often outside Jain’s gates.
 
 The police are verifying the ownership of the vehicle after which the owner would be booked.
 
 Jain was irked by the car parked in his street, which blocked the way and caused a lot inconvenience to the residents. He had often complained about the   woes to several authorities.
 
 When nothing worked, he approached the police. 
 
 The   police registered a criminal case against an unidentified owner of a car. 
 
 According to the complaint, Jain’s gates were blocked by the car parked outside. The owner of the car also washed the vehicle on the road, which further upset Jain. He filed an RTI in RTO office and found that the car owner had filed an affidavit claiming he had space for parking in the house. 
 
 Following this, he approached police officials demanding action in this matter. “We asked the Clock Tower police having jurisdiction of Kesar Ganj to investigate the matter,” said a police official.
 
 The   in 2012 had directed the RTO that registration of any vehicle should only be made when the owner files affidavit that he has parking space.
 
 “The RTO office has to confirm that the new vehicle on road would not obstruct the traffic or cause trouble for the other residents. However, as there is no co-ordination between the traffic department and RTO, hundreds of vehicles are found haphazardly parked on the streets. While I have raised the issue here in Ajmer, it is a grave problem everywhere in the state,” said Jain.
 
 Clock Tower police investigated the matter and found that a car remained parked in the street that aggravated traffic and later registered a case against the owner of the car. Sources said that police are also taking help to fix charges in this matter because this is a different case for them. “Either we charge him for filing false affidavit or prevent traffic on road, therefore, we are taking advice of legal experts,” said police. 
 
 
