Four years after appearing in the forgettable 'Gali Gali Chor Hai',   returned to the marquee with an antagonist turn in the Rohit Dhawan directed actioner 'Dishoom' last year and is following it up with a significant part in  's 'Mom', which features the film producer's actress-wife Sridevi in the titular role and marks the directorial debut of Ravi Udyawar. 

  
  
 But Boney doesn't see the point of according any kind of chronological connection to the two films. "Mom is Akshaye's real comeback," he insists, arguing, "He's playing an important role and has done justice to it. It's going to be his career's finest performance."As part of his prep for the role, Akshaye, who wrapped up filming in February this year, lost over 10 kgs and will be seen in a sharp look, dressed in monochrome and leather jackets.
 
  "We had explored many options and went through several rounds of auditions.Then, Ravi and his co-writer, Girish Kohli, met Akshaye and were completely bowled over. Akshaye read the script aloud and resonated with the character. Since the script is layered with many details and he responded to it so well, it made the narration absolutely refreshing," Boney informs, adding that the actor has added his own nuances to his portions.
 
 The thriller -which features Pakistani actors Sajal Ali and Adnan Siddiqui as Sridevi's daughter and husband respectively -may be Akshaye and Boney's first film together, but the duo go back a long way. They had met for the first time in 1998, on the sets of Subhash Ghai's 'Taal', which featured Akshaye, Anil Kapoor and Aishwarya Rai Bachchan in lead roles. "Since he was working with Anil, we met often at the time. He came across as a warm and respectful boy and I thought he was an absolute natural on screen, effortless even. He was always on time for the shoots and always delivered to the best of his abilities," Boney reminisces.
 
 They met again, when Akshaye played the protagonist in Anil's production, 'Gandhi, My Father'. The critically acclaimed film went on to win three National Film Awards. “Akshaye was brilliant in the film and every scene with Darshan Jariwala, who played Gandhi, his father, is memorable even today.We had kept in touch since then," Boney says.
 
 Meanwhile Akshaye, who is known as a man of few words, says, "It's a milestone in my career to be able to work with the one and only Sridevi and Nawaz, the finest actors we have today. It is a gem of a script and it was an honour to shoot with a gem of a cast and crew."
 
  
  
  
  
 
