Yeah, it's a celebration!

  
 No, you know, the thing is, with 'Rangoon', I knew the stakes were very high. And 'Rangoon' flopping, I knew there is a set of people who are going to come out with their daggers and stab me to death, in a way... So I knew this. It was my biggest nightmare, my biggest fear, that if 'Rangoon' flops, what will happen to me? And when it did, every nightmare came true. People were just waiting for this to happen.
 
  There was a time when my phone was ringing all the time, there was so much. And they all came together. And to my surprise, when I survived that, the rush that you feel, that’s when I felt - if my worst fear cannot do anything, so what is there for me to worry about? So now I feel like this unchained beast, because this is the limit of my enemies. All the controversies, all the... And to add to that my accidents, to add to that how my film (on Rani Lakshmibai) was struggling financially, the film I was supposed to do with Ketan Mehta didn’t get any finances. And then he came with a lawsuit and then the nepotism debate went abroad and... So for me, like, when all this happened and I survived that, now I honestly don't fear anything. What will you do to me now? Nothing! There’s nothing you can do to me now, because everything that can go wrong did go wrong, and here I am, completely perfectly happy in my own world. 
 
 
 
  
 My hits have taught me nothing. When a film flops, there is a lot of learning. Post a failure, you're heading to big success. But success is a result of the learnings from failures. If I have succeeded in a film like 'Queen', it's a result of eight years' failures. But Queen in itself didn't teach me anything. Celebration in itself has no learning to it.
 
  
 No, no way! And I wouldn't want to change it for anything. Because of course when I started out, I didn't know I wanted to be an actress. But when I became an actress, like anyone else, I wanted an easy life, I wanted to be in the Yash Raj camp and the Dharma camp and be doing Khan films when I was an 18 year old. Of course I wanted all of that. And because it didn't happen, I realised that the real treasure is not something that someone can give you... you don't want to be the moon who is reflecting light from others, because when everyone's gone, you have your darkness to live with. You want to be like the sun, you want to give light, not just borrow light from people.
 
  Somewhere, people feel that an individual's struggle is about the individual and the world. My struggle is about me. My struggle did not start with the point that I want to show the world who I am. Because I did not know in the first place, who I am, who I was. So my struggle was 'I want to find out who I am'. Because what I was told as an individual, by my family, and the limited impression of mine that people had, even growing up - that didn't ring true. Being physically less capable than a man, being emotionally or financially always dependent on a man… I didn't speak English. None of the women from our family have a success story to brag about, so even I can't have it… yes, it does make sense, nobody has made it so far, why would you? But then there is a feeling within you which tells you otherwise. So that's the struggle - between the facts and the feeling. 
 
  
 These days, quite a lot (laughs)! Because there are, like I said, a hundred people, a hundred opinions, and I have a digital team, so of course they keep sending me links, asking, 'do you want to give a reaction?' Or they keep telling me, 'don't react to this'. 
 
  Most people think when you are an actor, you should stick to your business, but I see myself more like a personality, than an actor. So just the movie is never my agenda, never has been. 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 Most people expect me to be like, now that you're promoting, just stick to your business. But the point is, who are you tell me what my business is? If I am entirely here only for movies then why did I reject Khan films? Why don't I care to work with Karan Johar? Why don't I go get awards, if just that's my business? But I don't care about my business, can't you tell? So who are you to tell me what my business should be? I am here in the capacity of a woman, and my personality as a woman is a lot more valuable to me than my business of my films. Like I've said no to 300-crore films. It's not like they became 300-crore films and I regret it, they were always 300 crore on paper also. I mean, can't you tell that I really don't care about the business of my films? Especially, like I said, after I hit rock bottom and realised that actually, it really doesn't matter, because people have loved me as an individual. So I have to make sure that when somebody points a finger at your character as a woman, you've got to respond to that. 
 
 You can't be like, oh, I'm an actor, in my capacity I should just be promoting my film. I would never respect anyone who is so calculative in life, who can't rise above the status of the business and the method of marketing. It’s a horrible thing to tell somebody that now that you're promoting your film... what is a film? In the scheme of things, tell me, what is a film? I've given so many hit films, today they're not even relevant. Who are you to tell me I should only be bothered about my film? What is a film? A film is nothing. I already have four offers...
 
 
  
  
 
  
 No, but like I said, I already have four offers. It's not even relevant to them either. I am an actor, I’ll get a job regardless. So anyone who thinks that a profession is above one's character and dignity is just an idiot who doesn't know how to live life. Life is not about tricks and techniques. Life is about finding yourself, and finding peace with that.
 
 
  
  
 
 The thing is, see, what is the definition of success? I want to ask a successful person. If you are crawled in your little hell hole, and you do not have a voice, you're shit scared of losing whatever little you have earned in life, you are the most unsuccessful person in life. I want to tell these people that I've made this conscious decision that I set out to just discover myself and be like... you know, I don't subscribe to this, first papa's ghar and then husband's ghar and then that's just the cycle of my life. I just wanted to be an independent girl. But now at this point, at 30, I have earned a lot more than that. And it's a conscious decision you make ki yaar, I had just come ki mujhe thoda kaam mil jaye, bahut hai mere liye. And today I am one of the most successful actors, I am among the highest paid, I have won so many awards, I’ve even set records. Toh ab mujhe kis cheez ka darr hai? 
 
  Being actors, if it is about our gender, about religion, about the debate of India’s struggles, the army fighting at the border – why, for all this, do you show your back and why do you crawl into your little holes, why? If you can't speak... beyond being an actor, beyond being a professional, you are a citizen of the nation, first and foremost. How dare this industry forget that? 
 
  Their lives are very limited. And that’s why, like I said, I am more than happy to let go of this industry. And why? Because I don’t have an iota of respect for it. And they can tell. And that’s why they don't like me. And my genuine reason for not liking this industry is very personal. And I always say, if I stay, good for them, if I don’t, good for me (laughs)! This kind of freedom also comes from the fact that I'm ready to move into another phase of my life, which can comprise anything. I can turn an author, or I can direct the kind of film I want once in a while, or I can do organic farming – I've built a beautiful house in Manali. But the thing is, if a certain industry doesn’t have, you know, you don't have any respect, or pride or even gratitude, why do you want to live like that? We don’t give back to the country enough. And there are very few films that address what the nation should be. There are very few that are actually made for the hinterland, the real India. So we really need to buckle up and earn our respect as an industry. 
 
  
 (Laughs) Like I said, with extreme failures or bullying, there's a point when you're like, you're trying to watch your back, you’re trying to save yourself, you’re trying to fight conflicts - and then there comes a point where you, I don't know, you just become this beast. And also to see what the opposition is about. I mean, I don't even call them worthy enemies, because they're not. The ones who play underhand games, who come from behind with a dagger, the ones who will use different means to fight back, are not worthy enemies. I wish they were like me, to tell me things to my face, or to come in front of everyone and say things as they are. Or what they feel, because I would love to know their perspective. I guess I will never know, because like I said, coming from front and attacking from front is not what they are taught to do. So yeah, I think I've become this beast post my Rangoon failure and everything that happened post that. 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 Mera character flaw yehi hai ke I am, I mean, being headstrong is a good quality, but I am too headstrong. I am too, too, too headstrong. And sometimes I even get a bit taken aback with my own ego as a woman. Because - A, a woman, and B, ego. It's not a combination that doesn't exist, it does, of course. But it’s not acceptable. And that too in this much multitude. I think ego is genderless. It’s harmful for anyone. But for me, I do feel that I am too egoistic... but my pride and my dignity do stem out of it. 
 
  
 Well, of course. Luckily, I am not an impulsive person. I always have a filter of objectivity through my thoughts. That's why I can take really strong stands. I really value my personality more than my profession. And I've earned it, over a period of time. Luckily, I became familiar with the cause and effect theory by Vivekananda, and I subscribe to it. I have to put everything through that filter, and then I realise, oh, yes. If I didn't have that, I would be a disaster, I agree. Ego is like a death trap, ego can completely destroy you. But then I have Vivekananda's blessings, and I have his teachings. 
 
  
 (Laughs) Well, people around me, yeah they get fed up of me, it's not that they don't. I don't meet my set of friends sometimes for days, because I am embroiled in some kind of controversy, something's going on. So they do get fed up, ki tumko chain nahi hai? Matlab when you're in so much trouble, why don't you keep quiet?
 
  
 Of course I'll do such a role. If the script is good, if the story is good, I would play such a role. In fact, Julia, to an extent, till half the film (Rangoon), she’s that woman, who's looking for the approval of a man, who’s so needy in love that it is almost like a sickness. 
 
  Also, I can't say that I was not that person at one point of time. Growing up, I had a terrible time with romantic life and love interests, and I used to be lovesick to an extent that I wouldn't eat for days, I wouldn’t go to school, I would cry all the time. And also there's a lot of shame that comes with being lovesick, with the fantasies of youth and the trap of primitive mating instincts. There's a lot of shame attached to it. You can't share that with anyone. I used to lose a lot of weight every time I was in love. I’ve had a terrible time growing up. And the same with maternal instincts. Like the last few years of my life, since I've been 25, and now I'm 30, I'm just, brooding, want to have a family, all my girlfriends are expecting. So it's not easy. I would show a lot of empathy to young women and tell them it’s just fine, it's fine if you're lovesick, it's fine if you cry all the time, it’s fine if you don't feel hungry, feel the butterflies that come with the initial encounter of passion, that puke-y feeling that you get with the excitement of meeting someone. Oh my God, I remember all of that. So that time, yes, that’s your world and you can't think beyond that. I have a lot of empathy for such a state. And I’m sure I’ll be damn good at playing it because I have been lovesick to such an extent... I used to listen to Jagjit Singh's poetry. I was a Ghalib fanatic!
 
  
 
  (laughs)! Oh God! Ghalib - 
 . How much, 
 ! Matlab, what beautiful days of growing up. 
 
  
 Because it was a very short span. Almost just a few months. I wish I had a lot more time there. But I was very young when I started, and I did a few workshops, and a play, I was doing backstage for that play. And then Arvind (Gaur) sir – his actor went missing one day, Madhavi was the name of the play. And he made me the lead actor, he gave me a moustache, and I was so confident, and he was so wonderful, he said, 'you're amazing with acting. You should try in films, you’re young, you’re beautiful', and I'm like, okay! And it is only because he guided me and gave me direction that I came to Mumbai and I auditioned. 
 
  
 How people think they have the right to tell me how I should live my life. Who are you to tell me what I should do with my life? "Just keep to your film"? Why?! This platform that I have, I’ve earned, dammit! You will tell me what I should say? Why should you tell me? 
 
  There was so much shame in being in love when you were younger and now there is shame in being a nationalist or being someone who's fighting against gender bias or... if there is going to be shame at every stage, then what is the fun of growing up? (Laughs) Young women are shamed for being in love, older women are shamed for talking about issues, what do you do?!
 
  
 (Laughs) I definitely have a lot to tell! 
  
  
 
 
