HYDERABAD:  , the   of chief minister  , is all set to enrich village-level contractors in the state.
Kicking up a major economic activity in villages, works worth a total of `5,978 crore will be taken up in 20,366 rural habitations. Depending on their availability , small-time contractors in the villages are to be given first preference to dig roads and lay water distribution pipes.
 
 A massive 50,000-km length of roads is to be dug up in the next one year to lay pipelines to give individual tap connections to about 50 lakh households in these rural habitations by March 2018. According to sources, the CM wants this project to be completed by that deadline in view of the assembly polls in 2019.
 
 So far, the government has given the works to big contractors, who in turn hired sub-contractors and labour or sub-leased it as part of Mission Bhagiratha project.
 
 “Now, local contractors will be given first priority and they can directly seek the work by registering their names with district level committees headed by the executive engineer. Works in packages up to `5 lakh would be given on nomination basis,“ rural water supply chief engineer   told TOI.
 
 To ensure that work is completed in time, contractors have been spared from the responsibility of procuring material i.e., pipes, joints, taps among others. “We will supply the material worth over `2,900 crore (50 per cent of the total `5,900 crore project cost). The contractors only need to dig up the road and lay pipelines. Initially, the local contractors would be given work in small packages for about one or two kilometres accumulated length and based on the quality and their performance, the contract and works would be extended,“ rural water supply engineer-in-chief Mr   told TOI.
 
 There is a huge requirement of contractors, masons, pipeline technicians, who do the joint works, and labourers. Officials are expecting to get sufficient number of local contractors and labour though skilled masons are expected to be scarce.
 
 Nearly 10,000 skilled masons are required for various works, particularly construction of overhead service reservoirs, in every village and officials are making arrangements to get them from Odisha, Bihar and West Bengal too in case of shortage in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, officials said.
 
