MUMBAI: NDA 's presidential nominee Ram Nath Kovind was in the city for a day on Saturday for campaigning. Though Shiv Sena leaders were expecting Kovind to visit party president Uddhav Thackeray's residence,  , or have a one-to-one interaction with him, Kovind did not oblige. He only spoke to Uddhav over the phone.

 In the 2012 presidential election, Congress nominee   had personally called on Shiv Sena supremo Bal Thackeray at Matoshree.Then he was accompanied by NCP president  . In the 2007 presi dential election, while the Congress nominee, Pratibha Patil, did not visit Matoshree, the then chief minister Vilasrao Deshmukh and the then deputy chief minister R R Patil had called on Bal Thackeray on her behalf and after she won the polls, her husband, Devisingh Shekhawat, visited Matoshree.
 
 In both the 2007 and 2012 elections, the Shiv Sena had supported the Congress nominees.
 
 A senior BJP leader confirmed to TOI that there was a request from the Shiv Sena leadership that Kovind should meet Uddhav at Matoshree or personally interact with him elsewhere. “BJP took the view that since party president Amit Shah had visited Matoshree on June 18, there was no need for Kovind to call on Udhav. Further, Kovind has decided not to visit any residences during his campaign,“ he said.
 
 Ever since BJP declared the candi dature of Kovind, Shiv Sena had expressed reservations on whether it will support him and the objection was that his nomination was declared unilaterally without consulting the NDA partners.When Shah called on Uddhav to seek his support for the presidential candidate, Shiv Sena agreed. Kovind's candidature had not been declared at that time.When Kovind's nomination was made official, Shiv Sena reluctantly suppor ted him as it had proposed the candidature of RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat.When Bhagwat declined, the Shiv Sena had recommended agricultural scientist M S Swaminathan's name.
 
 During his brief visit to Mumbai, Kovind was received by chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, state BJP president Raosaheb Danve, Shiv Sena cabinet member Anant Geete, RPI leader and Union minister Ramdas Athavale and transport minister Nitin Gadkari.
 
 In his interaction with BJP and Shiv Sena legislators, Kovind submitted that in his political career, he had been impartial and in future too, he will remain impartial.
 
 
