PUNE: The cyber crime cell of the city police on Wednesday arrested a 28-year-old man from Bidar in Karnataka for duping 63 people who had sought solutions from a consumer complaint website across the country.

 Shivprasad Shanakarappa Madgi, of KHB colony in Bidar, used to contact these consumers by posing as a representative of the website. Madgi, a glib talker, would take down the customer’s credit or debit card details. And, while still talking, he would transfer money from their account to one of his 12 e-wallets or make purchases on e-commerce websites.
 
 The cyber crime cell team, led by senior inspector Sunil Pawar, recovered 36 SIM cards, eight mobile handsets and two laptops from Madgi. “Investigations revealed that Madgi had purchased these SIMs from a shop in Pimpri by giving fake ID proofs,” Pawar told TOI.
 
 Ex-serviceman   had lodged a complaint on the website on February 4 as he had found that Rs 121 was deducted from his pension for two months.
 
 While lodging the complaint, Jambhale had mentioned his cellphone number as well as bank account number. In a few minutes, he received a call from a person who claimed to represent the website. Pawar said that the man then took Jambhale’s credit card details, i ncluding the CVV number and expiry date. 
 
 While Jambhale was talking on the phone, he received an OTP number on his cellphone. The man also extracted this OTP number from Jambhale.
 
 Jambhale was shocked when he later found that Rs 45,158 had been transferred from his account. He then approached the cyber cell and lodged a complaint, based on which Madgi was taken into custody.
 
 Pawar said Magdi is a first year BCA dropout. “While pursuing BCA in Bengaluru, he got the idea of making easy money by cheating people from his room mate. Following this, he also started duping people,” Pawar said, adding, “In 2012, Madgi was arrested by the Assam police and in year 2013, the Karnataka police arrested him for a similar offence.”
 
 Pawar said Madgi operated alone and used 36 SIM cards and eight cellphones. 
 
 For the past year, he had rented out a room in Thergaon and operated from there. 
 
 Pawar said prima facie investigations revealed Magdi had duped about 63 people including three from Pune; 20 from Navi Mumbai, Thane and Nagpur; and 30 from Karnataka,  , Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Odisha, Delhi and Assam to the tune of Rs 25 lakh. 
 
 He used the money to purchase cellphones and gold coins. “Magdi used to then sell off these cellphones,” Pawar said.
 
