Adoption of heart-healthy lifestyle decreases the risk of coronary heart disease and heart attack. Dietary fat is bad for the heart and it must be avoided, certain unsaturated fats are heart healthy, and other saturated fats are not good for the heart. Heart-healthy unsaturated fats are known as omega-3 fatty acids. Omega-3 fatty acids that are beneficial for cardiovascular health are   (ALA), eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA). ALA is primarily found in plant-based foods such as olive, soybean and in walnuts and flaxseeds. EPA and DHA are found in marine-based foods that include the variety of fatty fish, such as tuna, salmon, mackerel, herring, trout, halibut, and cod.
 
  Omega-3 fatty acids lower triglyceride levels and increase high-density lipoprotein (i.e., good cholesterol) levels. They may also decrease platelet aggregation, which can prevent the coronary arteries from occluding. Omega-3 fatty acids may decrease the chance of the heart having an abnormal rhythm. Omega 3- fatty acids may also increase compliance of arteries, decrease atherosclerosis through their effects on metabolism, and reduce inflammatory markers in the body. In a study, more than 2,000 healthy men and women between the ages of 25 and 41 were participated. Diabetics and obese were excluded. The findings showed that those with the highest serum levels of omega-3 had the lowest blood pressure readings. On average, their systolic pressure was 4 millimeters of mercury (mm Hg) lower and their diastolic pressure was 2 mm Hg lower compared to those with the lowest omega-3 blood levels.
  
  Eating fish twice a week is a great way to improve  . If fish isn’t a regular part of your diet, do your heart a favor by serving twice a week. While fish oil supplements are popular, the American Heart Association does not consider them a sufficient replacement for eating fish. The full benefits of a fish-friendly diet are difficult to quantify, but there is plenty of evidence that people who eat fish regularly are less likely to have cardiovascular disease. The advantages of eating fish will be seen over the long term of consumption – which comes from eating it twice a week.
  
  
  
 
  1. Kris-Etherton PM, Harris WS, Appel LJ; American Heart Association. Nutrition Committee. Fish consumption, fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids, and cardiovascular disease. Circulation. 2002;106:2747–2757
  2. http://www.heart.org/HEARTORG/Conditions/More/MyHeartandStrokeNews/Eating-Fish-for-Heart-Health_UCM_440433_Article.jsp#.QdWkkLf_roY
  
  
 
  Dr. A. K. Ajmani, M.D., D.M. (Endo), Ex Head of Endocrinology, RML Hospital, Sr. Consultant in Endocrinology Department, BLK Super Speciality Hospital, New Delhi
  
  
  The views and opinions expressed by the Doctors are their independent professional judgment and we do not take any responsibility for the accuracy of their views. This should not be considered as a substitute for Physician's advice. Please consult your treating Physician for more details.
  
  
