PUNE: The   ( ) has found an ever-lasting way to honour martyr Second  , an alumnus of the academy.

 The NDA named the institutes’ newly constructed block after Raman. The academy inaugurated the ‘Raman Block’ which will have classrooms and laboratories for the B.Tech programme offered at the institute on Monday. The announcement was made during the celebrations of the NDA’s 69th raising day. 
 
 Second Lt Polur Muthuswamy Raman made the supreme sacrifice in 1956 at the age of 21, when he fought relentlessly despite being severely injured in enemy fire against insurgents in  .
 
 The officer was born on December 4, 1934 in North Arkot district of Tamil Nadu. He hailed from a defence background as his father was a Major in the Indian Army. 
 
 His initial schooling was in the Burma and then he joined the Saraswati Vidyalay High School and later was a student in Wadia college, Pune.
 
 Raman is an alumnus of the 6th course of the academy from the   squadron. The officer was commissioned into the 3   in December 1955.
 
 On June 3, 1956, a platoon of Sikh Light Infantry was ordered to attack insurgents who were hiding in Chephema village in the Naga Hills. During the attack, the officer led from the front in dense fog and was severely wounded by enemy fire.
 
 Despite his grievous injuries, he led his platoon and charged the enemy positions and without any regard for his safety, with the battle cry of the Sikh regiment, “Bole So Nihal.”
 
 The bold and fearless assault, led by this young officer led to securing of Chephema. During this operation, the officer, who was not even 22-years-old, exhibited exemplary leadership skills and bravery. In this gallant act, the officer Raman made the supreme sacrifice.
 
 For this devotion to the nation, the officer was awarded the Ashok Chakra, the highest award of gallantry in peace time. Veterans from the city welcomed the NDA's decision to name the new block after Raman.
 
 An octogenarian Lt Gen BT Pandit (retd), Vir Chakra awardee, for his immense contributions during 1971 war against Pakistan, happens to be passout of 6th course, told TOI, “It is a great feeling for me as my course mate is still being remembered and honoured after all these years. He was a brave solider and fought courageously against the insurgents. An officer like him is a role model for the future military officers of the country.”
 
 A 72-year-old, Lt Col AD Tripathi (retd) from Sikh LI, told TOI, “Being from the same regiment, this is a very proud moment for me.”
 
 To mark the occasion, the NDA Commandant Air Marshal Jasjit Singh Kler laid a wreath at the Hut of Remembrance to pay homage to the gallant officers of NDA, who have laid down their lives in the service of the nation.
 
 The commandant also presented motivation awards to those who have performed admirably and rendered commendable service to the academy. 
 
 It is a great feeling for me as my course mate is still being remembered and honoured after all these years. He was a brave solider and fought courageously against the insurgents
 
 
