NEW DELHI: For alleged defrauding of nationalised banks in India to the tune of Rs 2200 crores,   and its owners Sharad Kabra and Vijay M Choudhary would face prosecution in Mumbai by   and at Indore by Enfircement Directorate.
 
 A Supreme Court bench of Justices Ranjan Gogoi and Navin Sinha rejected the pleas of Kabra and Choudhary for clubbing together the cases at Mumbai and Indore. The accused had pleaded that since the two agences were probing offences relating to the same alleged crime it would be just and proper to keep the prosecution confined to one place.
 
 Appearing for the  , attorney general   and additional solicitor general Maninder Singh pointed out that while the enforcement directorate was investigating the   aspect of the crime, the CBI was probing the fraud played on the banks.
 
 After hearing the counsel for accused senior advocate  , the bench pointed out that section 44 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) provided that if the prosecuting agency (ED) filed an application in the CBI court in Mumbai, that court would transfer the CBI cases to Indore, where the ED case is pending. This means till ED files the transfer petition under PMLA, the accused would have to face prosecution at both places.
 
 The ED in its affidavit narrated the novel method adopted by Kabra and Choudhary to allegedly defraud the banks of huge sums. The Agency said the duo requested banks in India to issue bank guarantees to foreign banks on the basis of fictitious contracts with some foreign companies - Astikor AG (Switzerland) and Llondenium Trading Ltd (London) - falsely representing that these foreign entities were awarding contracts for big projects to Zoom Developers worth hundreds of crores of rupees.
 
 The duo told the banks in India that advances from these projects would accrue to them only if they got bank guarantee from domestic banks for mobilisation of funds from foreign banks, ED said.
 
 "Indian banks consortium extended such facility to the tune of Rs 2,650 crore. From 2010, foreign banks started invoking the bank guarantees of Indian banks, which lost approximately Rs 2,200 crore to foreign banks because of default by Zoom Developers. Inquiry by banks revealed that Zoom had concealed a key agreement with foreign entities which was detrimental to the interests of Indian banks," ED said.
 
 ED said inquiries by it revealed that all foreign entities were controlled by Choudhary and most of the projects and contracts, claimed to have been bagged offshore by Zoom, were fake. "Such entities were floated by Choudhary with the help of Kabra to cheat banks and to siphon off money. Various fake contracts/invoices were also prepared by them to cheat Indian and foreign banks," it said.
 
