SURAT:   (NAU) has introduced a new subject of dry flower preparation and its commercial use in its postgraduate curriculum. 

 Natural flowers are used as room fresheners and display articles. This is the experiment to explore the export potential of dry flowers. 
 
 Alka Singh, associate professor and head of department of floriculture and landscape architecture, ASPEE College of horticulture at NAU, said, “In PG courses, we have a full component of dry flowers and the objective is to provide students with knowledge by which they can add value to their commercial venture.”
 
 At present, India’s annual export market of dry flower is about Rs 300 crore.
 
 “Till now, only Tamil Nadu has all the exporters of this product. So, we want our students of horticulture to develop the skill and grab a major share of India’s developing market,” Said Singh. 
 
 Presently, dry flower market is growing at the rate of 8-10% per annum in India which could easily double if some more states start developing this business, she added. 
 
 Dry flowers being bio-degradable and environment friendly, everlasting arrangements could be prepared using them where some species of these flowers are not available. These flower arrangement also last longer and one can enjoy the smell of seasonal flowers throughout the year.
 
 Flowers like dahlias, marigold, jute flowers, wood roses, wild lilies, helichrysum, lotus pods, pods and fruits of many shrubs and trees are exploited for drying and beautiful arrangements are made for decoration. Pine cones and dried fruit of gourd is used as a base for dry flower arrangement. 
 
 Currently, research on dry flowers is minimum in the country, said Singh. However, research on standardization on dry flower technology is conducted at NBRI Lucknow; NAU; IARI, New Delhi; TNAU, Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu , and Dr YS   in Solan, Himachal Pradesh.
 
 Potpourri fragrance comprises significant part of dry flower exports in India. It is made with dry flower and added fragrance and served as an active and attractive room freshener. 
 
 Dried plant parts, flower petals, leaves, stems, seeds, root are used for making this fragrant potpourri. This constitutes major part of Indian export and flowers and plants like roses, lilacs, lavender, pinks, violets, wall flowers, marigold and many others are used in this. 
 
 Potpourri are designed in transparent glass bowls or ceramic jar or stored in colourful satin or muslin sachet or in thick transparent polypropylene film with opening tied with silk ribbon.
 
