NEW DELHI:   vice-president   today declared Punjab state unit chief   as the party's chief ministerial face in the upcoming 
  . 

 He also slammed Punjab's ruling   (SAD) and its leading family, the  , for being complicit in drug trade and rampant corruption.
 
 "I said four years ago that 70 per cent youth are affected by drugs. The Badals made fun of me. Now, whole Punjab is saying what I said," 
  .
 
 Waxing poetic once again, Rahul claimed when farmers see 'badal' (clouds), they feel happy in their hearts, but the Badals of Punjab are not so generous. In fact, Rahul blamed them for ruining the future of Punjab and said only the Congress can fix the ills plaguing the state.
 
 "They (the Badals) have ruined the future of Punjab. But the people are not at fault, the government is. We (the Congress) are not here to make false promises. The government must deal with the serious issues of drugs and corruption. Only a Congress government can successfully do this," the Congress leader said.
 
 Promising to introduce strict measures to curb the drug menace in the state, Rahul said, "We'll introduce such laws in the state that people will tremble at the thought of (using/trading) drugs."
 
 The Gandhi scion also avowed to end debt in Punjab.
 
 "Be it farmer, labourer or small time trader, they've all been bled dry by the current government. Congress will give the people's money back to them. Their money will go into developing your state," Rahul said.
 
 "Jo Congress kehti hai, vo karke dikhati hai," Rahul proclaimed to a cheering crowd.
 
 The Congress vice-president targeted the   next. Referring to their track record in Delhi, Rahul alleged that the AAP had made a lot of promises but had done no work. He also jibed at Delhi chief minister  .
 
 "AAP says different things in Delhi, Haryana and Punjab. They keep contradicting themselves. Make it clear what you want to do. We have someone (Arvind Kejriwal) who wants to be the 
  ! How can an outsider be the chief minister of Punjab?" Rahul scoffed. 
 
 Pointing at Capt Amarinder Singh, who was seated on the dais, the Congress leader said, "The chief minister of Punjab will be from the state itself. And he is sitting right here."
 
 Rahul is on a three-day visit to Punjab, where the Congress has been out of power for the last decade. The state will go to polls on February 9.
 
 
