CHENNAI: High drama continued to mark political developments in Tamil Nadu with Madurai south MLA S S Saravanan claiming to have “escaped” under disguise from the   general secretary V K   camp at the 
  in Chennai outskirts. The MLA reached the Greenways Road residence of chief minister O   in Chennai to narrate his escape story.

 Soon after reaching OPS residence, Saravanan, accompanied by Lok Sabha member R Gopalakrishnan addressed reporters in the presence of Panneerselvam and other senior party leaders in his camp. Saravanan said he had managed to flee the Koovathur resort 
  on Monday evening. The total tally in the OPS camp has now risen to eight MLAs, including the CM, and 12 MPs.
 
 “I am an engineer by profession and I devised ways to escape from the resort. There are many other MLAs, who are 
  . Every MLA is ready to switch camps and that will happen soon,” said Saravanan to loud cheers from party cadres. “With an MLA and MP from Madurai crossing over, it is as if Madurai Meenakshi Amman herself has come to bless this camp,” said Saravanan.
 
  
  
 
 Stating that he was in constant touch with his well-wishers and voters, Saravanan said he assiduously tracked social media. “Except during breakfast, lunch and dinner, I spent the rest of the time on social media, replying to my voters and well-wishers. All of them wanted to know whether I would support OPS annan and I merely said “sure” as I did not want to add more details from the resort,” said Saravanan.
 
 “I am only a cat. There are several lions in the resort, who want to switch camps. Within a few days, more MLAs will join OPS and we will prove our majority under his leadership and form the government,” said Saravanan.
 
 Gopalakrishnan praised former chief minister J Jayalalithaa for giving him a chance to contest in the Lok Sabha elections from a Madurai constituency and sending him to Parliament. “My family is at peace now after I joined the OPS camp. They have been pestering me to take a decision in favour of OPS annan,” said Gopalakrishnan.
 
 Monday’s events in the OPS camp were orchestrated by former electricity minister Natham Viswanathan, said sources. Significantly, both praised Viswanathan in their speeches.
 
 
