THIRUVANANTHAPURAM:   Thomas Chandy said in the assembly that the government will make KSRTC a   within a year. The   will not be delayed from January 2018. It will be ensured that all the employees are getting salaries on the first day of every month. 

 There is only one report before the government on revamping the KSRTC, which was submitted by Sushil Khanna commission. However, the government has decided to implement the recommendations of the report only after holding discussion with the representatives of the employees' unions. 
 
 "When compared to the national average, the KSRTC is having the service of 9.4 employees per bus. The national average is 5.4 employees per bus. The number of conductors and drivers is much more in the state when compared to the national average. When the over 4,000 double duties are rescheduled into single duty, the number of employees will go up," said the minister.
 
 For purchasing 1,000 CNG buses, the government has given administrative sanction for Rs 50 crore as loan for the KSRTC. The total cost for 1,000 buses will come around to Rs 300 crore. The government is also thinking of utilising the unutilized land owned by the KSRTC for its development works.
 
 The KSRTC is having a burden of daily repayment of Rs 53 lakh for the loan taken from the bank consortium to the tune of Rs 1,300 crore. The KSRTC is also paying Rs 2.61 crore for Rs 1,650 crore loan taken from Kerala Transport Development Finance Corporation (KTDFC). 
 
 A proposal to reduce this daily repayment to Rs 61 lakh is before the consideration of state  
 
 The minister said that once the repayment of interest is brought down the revenue can be increased by 60%, which will help reducing the chance of taking loan for the payment of salaries and pensions.
 
 The KSRTC is planning to introduce long distance running buses to Hyderabad, Mumbai and Goa from northern Malabar. Similarly, buses to Bengaluru and Velankanni will be started from Kollam. 
 
 There will be immediate steps to make the shopping complexes owned and constructed by KSRTC at Thampanoor, Kozhikode, Angamally and Thiruvalla viable. Within six months all these complexes will start generating revenue for the corporation. 
 
