CHANDIGARH: The three   cases related to the destruction of   Captain Abhimanyu’s Rohtak properties in February 2016 during the Jat agitation are likely to be a major bone of contention in the talks between the government panel and community leaders. The two groups are to meet for the second round of walks in Panipat on Monday.

 The first round of talks between the state government-appointed five-member committee and Jat community representatives on February 12, was inconclusive as the leaders were adamant on their demands being accepted in toto. Among other things, Jat leaders want all the cases registered against community members in the aftermath of the reservation turning violent last year withdrawn. However, the process may not be easy as, according to legal experts, cases related to heinous crimes cannot be withdrawn without court’s approval.
 
 At the same time, other victims, who too lost properties and valuables, have been opposing the withdrawal of cases. Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has already announced that cases related to the heinous crimes would not be withdrawn.
 
 The central agency had started investigations into the criminal cases after Abhimanyu’s brother Satya Pal Sindhu had approached the Punjab and Haryana high court. After the court order and the state government’s recommendation, CBI took over the three FIRs registered in Rohtak for vandalism and arson at the house and other properties of Abhimanyu and his family members. Sources in the state government denied that if anyone has approached the minister’s brother about the withdrawal of cases.
 
 “Investigations are part of judicial proceedings pending in the high court. The government is committed to find the truth behind such barbaric violence and who planned and executed such attacks under the garb of agitation. Most of the accused had no association with the Jat reservation in the past,” said a source in the state government.
 
 During the first round of talks, Jat leaders had asked the government to pursue the case of reservation to Jats and six other communities in the Punjab and Haryana high court vigorously, withdraw all criminal cases against community memebrs, provide compensation and jobs to the next of kin of those killed, and rehabilitate those injured in the February 2016 violence.
 
 The BJP government has started the disbursal of financial assistance to those injured in the violence. On Saturday, it also announced compensation of Rs 1 lakh to those who had suffered bullet injuries in police firing.
 
 A total of 2,104 FIRs, majority of them in Rohtak district, were registered in connection with the Jat quota violence in February 2016 and 701 persons were arrested. Thirty persons were killed and 300 were injured in the violence that engulfed parts of Haryana between February 19 and 22 last year.
 
 
 
 
 While Jat leaders from BJP have been making efforts to ensure peaceful observation of ‘Balidan Diwas’, Union minister Birender Singh said he was not going to comment on the issue. “You know this is a very sensitive issue. The government is making so many efforts to ensure normalcy, hence we will not comment for the next couple of days,” Birender said in Julana town of Jind district on Sunday.
 
 
