KOLKATA: Dengue claimed yet another life in the city.   (10) of Behala died at the   on Saturday. The young girl had been planning to go pandalhopping with her parents and elder sister till a day before she had fever. A resident of 438, Rajani Mukherjee Road, her platelet count had plunged to 13,000. “It had improved to 20,000 after she was given blood. But her condition deteriorated suddenly,“ said her father Prabir Mondal. This is the fourth dengue death in the city this season.

 A number of kids and elderly are suffering from dengue in the areas to the east of James Long Sarani, close to Gholsapur Railway Colony .Parts of the area in ward number 119 fall in the assembly constituency of education minister Partha Chatterjee. The death has triggered panic in the neighbourhood, yet there is allegedly no attempt of vector control on the part of civic authority.
 
 Her death certificate issued by   (CNMCH) cited viral   of death. “She got fever on Monday. Her condition deteriorated after her fever subsided. She could not move. We took her to Vidyasagar Hospital where doctors asked us to move her to M R Bangur Hospital, where officials asked us to shift her to an ICU. So, we took her to CNMCH,“ said her sister Piyali.
 
 Councillor of ward number 119, Ashoka Mondal, said that she was not aware of any dengue death in his ward. “People are going to different places and getting infected. How can I be blamed for that? I keep my entire ward very clean. There are regular vectorcontrol exercise in my ward which include fogging, spraying larvicide and bleaching power. I don't know what else can we do in this regard,“ she added.
 
 But some residents were furious about the “lax“ vector-control measures in the area. “We have repeatedly alerted local councillor Ashoka Mondal for effective vector-control measures, But nothing happened. Just look at our neighbouring ward 118. The councillor and member, mayor-in-council Tarak Singh managed to keep his ward so clean that no such problem occurs,“ said a resident of adjacent   on condition of anonymity.
 
 “She was so full of life and was very healthy. It's a mystery how her condition could deteriorate after her fever subsided. She was so happy with her new clothes and was making plans for Puja. But she left us before the Puja,“ said the girl's mother Keya. “Her death has left us shocked. We don't have the heart to celebrate the Puja,“ said Papia Sarkar, a neighbour.
 
