NAGPUR: Empathy, dedication and the will to serve by the doctors, nurses, paramedical and non-medical staff at the   (MGIMS)  , not only brought back a 25-year-old ‘unknown’ patient (later identified as Ravindra Khilari) from the clutches of death but also united him with his family after an effort of four months and twenty days.

 It wasn’t just the medical care that gave the patient new lease of life. The hospital staff, from nurses to ward boys, fed him, bathed him and even donated money for providing food supplements to the patients. The entire treatment cost the hospital a few lakh but the it didn’t charge anything from him.
 
 Dr  , a resident doctor, told TOI that the patient had fallen from a train near Wardha while travelling on   train. He was brought to the hospital by the railway police and since the patient was unconscious and on ventilator for over a month, there was no communication possible.
 
 The hospital requested the railway police to trace his address that they found on his aadhaar card which helped him get to his wife. But his wife did not have money to travel from her village, Jhatira in west Midnapore district in West Bengal to Wardha. “Both husband and wife could speak only Bengali. hence the communication was difficult. But we told our Bengali students to talk to him and it helped. Initially he was disoriented but later was fine,” said Dr Singh.
 
 Luckily patient’s brother-in-law, Sanjeet Khilari, could somehow get help from   students and take the patient back.
 
 “The patient had head injury, multiple fractures in his hands and was bleeding from many places. He was unconscious and on ventilator for a month. We took help from Dr Shyam Babhulkar for neurological swellings and he told us that there was no surgical intervention possible. We treated him conservatively in surgical ICU. He now has a near normal speech but would require a lot of care for his hands in the form of physiotherapy,” said Dr Bhupendra Mehra, treating general surgeon.
 
 Head of Surgery Department Dr Dilip Gupta said that it was due to the nursing care that the patient didn’t get a single bed sore even after being on bed for three months. “After Ravindra started walking, he became a darling of entire ward. He would cry and everyone would make him laugh. Now our only worry is that he should not become a liability on his family,” said Dr Gupta.
 
 The doctors team who treated him besides Dr Mehra included consultants Dr Siddharth Rao, Dr Tushar Nagtode, Dr Akshay Pednekar, Dr Samuel Vuite. The residents team headed by Dr Singh included Dr Bushara Shazmeen and Dr Sushil Kumar.
 
 
