After a crazy and ruthless 2016, the new year is finally here. Like last year was defined by some extremely interesting   and developments,   too looks like it will throw up surprises galore. And as we settle into the new year, we await some stimulating and sparkling trends including new hairstyles, new shades of lip colours, fitness trends, new places to explore or just tweaking the old trends to create something new. There’s a lot that one can experiment with in 2017. Here’s taking a look. 

 
  With the after effects of demonetization lingering even in 2017, staying in budget and still looking fashionable will be on people’s minds. “2017 has a lot to offer in terms of style trends. Layering will be in vogue in every season. Also ombre palette, namely blue ombre and jewel tones are great options for evening wear. Natural breathable fabrics and natural dyes will be in demand. Crop pants and sporty footwear will also be seen for your casual day out, which can be teamed up with oversized tunic. Shift dress is also a great summer wear option. “Capes will be sure stunners, as they will soon be seen everywhere and can be teamed with anything,” suggests   designer Swati Goradia. “2017 will also be about bringing back the trends from the 70s and 80s. Natural fabrics, big prints, block prints, velvets and suedes are sure to be seen a lot. The concentration will be more on fabrics, cuts and silhouettes rather than embellishments and embroidery,” says fashion designer Digvijay Singh. “Monochrome prints, military prints, animal prints will be in high demand. It will be all be about loose yet comfy fittings, cuts and silhouettes,” says fashion designer Amol Upadhyay. 
 
  
  
 
 “Amdavadis have always loved fusion in street   but with more luxurious hotel chains and standalone restaurants springing up, the foodies have options galore. Also, Japanese cuisine will certainly catch up in the coming months,” suggests Anoj Gopal, executive chef with a well-known hotel chain. “And while we love to indulge in our cheese laden chaats, sandwiches and bhel, various healthy eating options and organic food products are very much in demand,” shares Bhumi Rajgor, a food blogger. She adds, “While street food and food wagons that came up with fusion food were a huge hit in 2016, this year will see some additions to it. With more people becoming health conscious, food that is low on sugar and oil is in demand. Along with organic, raw and natural food products, Japanese food, other than sushi, will also be in demand as it is comparatively less oily and healthy. While molecular food is here to stay, charcoal inspired food and vegan food is catching up too. Restaurants are also introducing street food inspired dishes, albeit with a twist, such as pani puri shots and pav bhaji fondue.”
 
 
 
 
  
  
 If you love bushy eyebrows like that of Cara Delevingne or admire the dewy fresh look, 2017 is definitely your year! “This year is all about going subtle yet defined,” shares Aanall Christian, city-based makeup artist. “Bushy eyebrows, nude/neutral shades and bright shades like coral, pink, red and pastel in lip colours will be seen a lot. Also, airbrush look (where every feature is defined) and dewy fresh look blended with bright/pastel lip colour will work for every occasion. Colours (lips and eyes) that suit a particular skin tone will be more in vogue. As for hairstyles, finger wave is a style that’s going to be in. Soft bouncy curls, big curls, wavy curls, messy hair bun, textured hairstyles are all becoming popular. In hair accessories like matha patti will be in vogue and can be worn at casual occasions, parties and weddings. Hair colours like brown, red, copper and blonde will rule the palate,” suggests Aanall.
 
 
 
 
 
  Butter and cheese laden food might be one of the hot favourites amongst Gujaratis, 2017 will see more fitness enthusiasts hitting back at their piled up calories with a vengeance. “With several fitness tracking devices and apps being launched, fitness freaks are leaving no stone unturned to keep a track of their fitness schedule,” says fitness expert Ravi Rawal adding, “Many are opting for functional training where maximum body weight is used, instead of using machines. Crossfit training, boot camps, HIIT (high intensity interval training), body weight training, strength training and kickboxing are newer varieties of workouts are now finding more and more takers. Also, many fitness enthusiasts are regularly going for cyclothons and marathons.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  Not only will solo travel, backpackers, trekking and hiking will become more popular with travellers, people are also opting for luxurious   options. East Europe, South Africa and South America are some of the new emerging hotspot destinations. People will also be opting for personal transport vehicles over public ones.
 
 
 
 
 
 
