COIMBATORE: Wednesday night was a clear example of how the city was ill-equipped to handle even 45 minutes or 40mm of rainfall. Despite the rain reducing to a drizzle by around 7.30pm, the city’s arterial roads remained clogged with traffic till 11pm. All access from the eastern and southern parts of the city to the northern and western parts and vice-versa were blocked for almost three hours. Officials blamed it on Wednesday being a ‘muhurtham day’, power outages, fallen trees, snapped EB wires and flooded underpasses. 

 Around 8pm on Wednesday, the   put up a barricade blocking vehicles from   to the flyover. This forced all the vehicles trying to get to the western and northern parts of the city to take a diversion through Stadium and Ramnagar to reach R S Puram, only to find even that road blocked by the police. Vehicles which again took a diversion to Cross Cut Road to access the   flyover were stuck from 8.10pm to 9.45pm. 
 
 The city police also blamed the rush after the rain stopped. “It was a combination of three factors that led to the traffic bottleneck. Our city roads see 30% more traffic on muhurtham days than usual,” said deputy commissioner (traffic) S Saravanan. 
 
 “Due to the rain, many low-lying areas like in front of the airtel office and Saibaba Colony junction had water logging on both sides. Many commuters, who wanted to avoid the rain, hit the roads when it tapered off to drizzle. So the usual traffic spread over two hours was on the roads at the same time. They also avoided the last lane of the road and crammed into the middle lane, causing congestion,” he said. 
 
 However, what created the biggest problem seemed to be water-logging and eventually closing off the under-pass on   near Kikani School, Lanka Corner underpass and bottom of the Avinashi Road flyover. 
 
 “There was severe water-logging forcing us to block the under-passes, but against our advice, a couple of vehicles tried driving through the under-pass only to get stuck. We found it difficult to clear them off. While a car got stuck under the Avinashi Road flyover with water entering the engine, a SUV got stuck under the Ramnagar under-pass,” said the deputy commissioner. “We blocked the traffic for couple of hours to remove a car which also unfortunately got stuck on Avinashi Road flyover,” he said.
 
 Arterial roads like Avinashi Road, Nanjappa Road, Mettupalayam Road,   and KGISL Road were blocked for more than an hour. Cars trying to get reach Thudiyalur and North Coimbatore through Kalapatti, Vilankurichi Road or Saravanampatti or vice versa were stuck for more than two hours, moving bumper-to-bumper. 
 
 “This was because trees had fallen in three places on Vilankurichi Road blocking it completely. An electricity conductor wire also fell down on Thudiyalur Road,” he said. 
 
 Power cut between Avinashi Road flyover and Anna Statue, which also affected a part of Stadium and Gandhipuram, left signals blank and streets blacked out, literally. It was almost 11pm before the road blocks were cleared and cars could start moving at a decent pace on the roads. 
 
 The electricity board says power cuts when there is a heavy rain is normal. “It is because the wires and insulators get affected when a sudden rain hits,” said TANGEDCO chief engineer, M Chandrashekhar. “But it was corrected within an hour,” he said.
 
