VISAKHAPATNAM: Vizag district is situated on geologically the oldest rocks, which is also rich in  , including semi-precious stones. But illegal mining of semi-precious   is rampant in the hilly agency areas of Eastern Ghats and these stones are exported to other states in the north. Constant digging for   and destruction of medicinal plant bearing rocks is causing a loss to the non-renewable wealth of nature, point out experts.

 Geologically, this area of the Eastern Ghats including Visakhapatnam region is made of Pre-Cambrian era rocks that dates back to around 2.9 billion years while the age of the Earth is 4.5 billion years. These are the earliest rocks formed in a big basin of geo syncline. In the smaller hilly terrains of Vizag, such as Kailasa, Duvvada and Yarada, kondalite is the most important rock. In some areas, leptynites are also found. Many of the colonial era buildings of Vizag are made of these geo-heritage kondalite rocks.
 
 These ancient rocks in the hilly terrains of Vizag are rich in mineral wealth such as bauxite, manganese, limestone and graphite or china clay. The areas are also storehouse of semi-precious or coloured stones (rangu rallu in Telugu), especially in areas including Paderu, Chintapally, Narsipatnam and adjacent villages. Within the kondalite rocks, are pegmatite rock bodies where these semi-precious stones are found.
 
 The main stones found are from the beryl group namely chrysoberyl (cat’s eye) and alexandrite or alex as well as moonstone of the feldspar group. Alexandrite is the most valuable of the lot. It’s a bluish green stone that appears like a red flame when torchlight falls on it – popularly called, “emerald by day and ruby by night.” 
 
 Most of these stones are used in making jewellery and have astrological value. According to sources, the precious stone green emerald is also found in Borra Caves area near Araku. Based on the cut and carat, the market value of these gemstones range from thousands of rupees to lakhs as bigger the carat of the stones, the value will be manifold in multiple proportions.
 
