PUNE: After his match-winning knock of 120 against England in the first ODI in Pune on Sunday, life has changed for India batsman  .

 Considering the attention he has been getting post the knock, the Pune boy is not sure whether he will be able to hang out with his friends at   (a popular eating joint in Pune) without being recognised by people.
 
 “Not sure about that (hanging out with friends),”Kedar said while addressing his first press conference on Tuesday after the first ODI on Sunday. “I have been getting a lot of congratulatory calls since Sunday, but I have kept my phone on silent mode to keep my focus on the series. Some of them might feel that I am throwing attitude after becoming a big player, but I have always wanted to be grounded.”
 
 Kedar was the first   batsman to break into the India team 11 years after   did it in 2003. But Kedar was hardly short of self-belief and that was reflected in his performances. It forced the national selectors to take note of his talent. On Sunday again, it was his self-belief that helped India chase down 350 runs after being 63/4.
 
 “I have had this attitude since childhood that whatever I do, I do it from the bottom of my heart and I prepare well. On the field, the only intent is to make your team win. I feel everything falls into place when you are thinking right,” Kedar, 31, said. The confidence, he feels, grew after he unknowingly played with a fractured hand for India A in Australia two years ago.
 
 “I was touring for India A and felt pain in the hand. I continued to play despite the pain and returned after 20 days and got a scan done. It revealed that I had a fracture (in the wrist). I realised that if I could perform well against Australia despite carrying a fracture, I can bear any pain. If I want to overcome any odds, I know I can do anything.”
 
 In the three games that he played in Australia, Kedar made 87, 52 and 78.
 
 In the post-match conference, Virat Kohli said he couldn't believe some of the shots that Kedar played on Sunday. Kedar admitted that having played tennis-ball cricket, it helps him to manufacture certain shots.
 
 “As a kid, I used to play a lot of tennis ball cricket. There used to be a tournament where fours and sixes were only the straight scoring options, as hitting on the sides would get you out. So that's how I got into this habit (of manufacturing shots).”
 
