PATNA: Twelve people have been arrested by Aurangabad police till Sunday for their alleged role in the Physics question paper leak in the Intermediate examination conducted by Bihar School Examination Board ( ) on Friday. 

 Police sources said while eight were arrested on Friday, the other four were nabbed on Sunday. Those arrested include four students, a coaching centre head and its teachers, videographers who were on duty at the examination centre to record the ongoing examination and a few guardians. 
 
 Aurangabad DM   told TOI that the answers of the objective questions went viral on Friday during the examination. “Around 10:15am, some people had circulated a message in which options of objective-type questions were given and we got to know about it by 10:30am,” the DM said. 
 
 Sources investigating this leak also said candidates had carried mobile phones inside the examination centre, though the BSEB has strictly prohibited it during exams. Only the centre superintendents and magistrates are allowed to carry cellphones at the examination centres. 
 
 Aurangabad SP Satyaprakash said Satish and Amarjeet of  , which provides tuition to students for Class X and XII board examinations, have been arrested. The coaching institute has two branches in Aurangabad. The one at a private school till Class VII is also a centre for the intermediate examination. The police also arrested video recorders Aditya, Shivam and Dhirendra from three different centres, including Rashtriya Madhya Vidyalaya at Daudnagar and   for their alleged role in the paper leak. 
 
 The special team probing the paper leak case has also asked district education officer to provide details of the centre superintendents and invigilators who were found suspicious.
 
 The DM said the mobile number used in circulating the answer key belonged to one Sameer Raj, a teacher at Narayana Coaching Institute. “Through the mobile location, we immediately raided the institute at Naga Bigha on Friday, but Sameer had managed to escape. We also raided another Narayana branch located near SN College and nabbed Sameer from there. He has confessed to his involvement in circulating the answers to the students through WhatsApp,” the DM said.
 
 He also said Sameer had received the answers from two different numbers and then forwarded them to five other numbers. All the numbers have been traced. The SP said at least 80 people were identified for interrogation. 
 
 It is to be noted that BSEB’s science stream candidates are given two sets of paper, one objective-type and another subjective. Sources in BSEB said answer booklet is distributed among the students by 9:45am and they are given 15-minute cooling period before writing papers by 10am. Objective-type question paper is distributed first and candidates are given one hour to solve them. After that, subjective question paper is distributed and they are given two-hour time for that.
 
 This leak has exposed the loopholes in the BSEB system. After previous year’s topper scam, BSEB took various measures to conduct a fair examination, but education mafiosi still succeed in wrongdoings. 
 
