NEW DELHI: Calcutta high court’s Justice C S  , eluding the police since the   convicted him of contempt on Tuesday, moved the apex court on Thursday and said the May 9 order was “illegal” and sought its recall.

 Advocate Mathew Nedumpara mentioned Justice Karnan’s petition before a bench headed by CJI J S Khehar after it completed the day’s hearing on validity of triple talaq and said the   registry was not accepting the contemnor’s application as it had not been authorised by an advocate on record (AoR), a select band of lawyers, who after passing an examination, are authorised to file petitions in the SC.
 
 Aware that   was not yet arrested in compliance with the May 9 order, the CJI asked Nedumpara how the judge signed the petition for filing in the SC when he was not available to the police. Nedumpara said, “I had gone to Chennai. He signed the petition and it has been authenticated by a notary public. But none of the AoR is willing to file it as they are scared of your court. They are so afraid of this court.” After ascertaining from Nedumpara that he had been duly authorised by Justice Karnan to file the recall plea, the court took the application and told him that an appropriate bench would consider it.
 
 TOI asked Nedumpara about Justice Karnan’s whereabouts amid speculation that he might have left the country. “He is very much in Chennai. I met him on Wednesday and got the papers signed,” Nedumpara said. The counsel also facilitated TOI to speak to Karnan’s son Sugan, who confirmed that his father was in Chennai. In the recall application, Justice Karnan said his January 23 letter seeking probe into allegations of corruption against judges was not contempt of court as a judge was not a court.
 
 “The allegations contained in the said letter are against the judges named therein and not against any court, neither the   nor the SC. If the said allegations are untrue, they would at best amount to defamation which will entail an actionable right, both civil and criminal, in the judge named in the said letter,” he said.
 
 
