NAGPUR: City police seem to have made it difficult for the   against women to get surety or guarantors required in completing the formalities of bond during hearing of preventive actions from the court of the Asst  , also empowered as executive magistrates, in city.

 The perpetrators of such crime of sexual harassments or exploitations can now be only saved from heading to jail from ACP’s court by someone from fairer sex only as city police have made it compulsory to bring women as surety or guarantors in such cases since earlier this year. 
 
 Though the prospect of making women compulsory to furnish surety in crimes of sexual harassments and exploitations was debated towards the end of 2016, the improvised practice was started to be implemented in city from earlier this year under supervision of city police chief K Venkatesh and monitored by Adds CP (in-charge), crime,  . The implementations are reviewed on weekly basis by Sharma in the meeting of the officers of ACP rank. 
 
 The plan, making women surety as compulsory in cases registered as rape or molestations, was part of the bigger scheme to overhaul the system of furnishing bonds during preventive actions in the court of the ACPs. With the increasing of the bond amount required for surety proportionate to the financial capacity of the culprits in criminal cases, it was planned to make women compulsory as guarantors for cases of sexual harassment or exploitations. 
 
 Sharma, detailing out the plan, stated that only women of sound reputations, including government servants, would be accepted as surety or guarantors. “The socially reputed or well-known women from every locality are being accepted as guarantors and not every one is entertained in such matters. This system is expected to go a long way as a deterrent in such cases of targeting women. In case the perpetrator violates the bond by committing similar actions, then the surety or guarantors would be held responsible,” he said. 
 
  of Lakadganj division said that every month she had been so far issuing jail warrant of few perpetrators as they have failed to furnish bonds by bringing some reputed woman as surety or guarantors in cases of molestations and rape. “We are strictly following the norms of the woman as guarantors in cases of sexual harassments and exploitations. It is never easy to get reputed women to turn up as guarantors in such cases,” she said.
 
 With the system in place, it has been reliably learnt that many perpetrators of sexual harassments or exploitations are heading to jails even after getting bails from regular cases as they are failing to furnish bonds before the ACP during preventive action. 
 
 BJP corporator Pragati Patil said the system should be committee-oriented rather than an individual centric as bringing a single person under pressure is easier than influencing a body of such people.
 
 
