PUNE: With as many as 9.25 lakh trees surveyed in the city so far, a digitised tree census has managed to cover about 30% area in a year. The project is estimated to be completed in March 2018 even as nearly 70% area is yet to be surveyed. 

 The project falls under the ambit of the Pune Municipal Corporation’s ( )  .
 
 As reported by TOI, the process to select seven subject experts from NGOs, who will join seven corporators on the Tree Authority team, has been halted pending clarity on registration with the state’s erstwhile social forestry department.
 
 In 2013, the Bombay High Court had ordered that the exercise be carried out. However, the process began only in April 2016. The previous tree census was undertaken between 2007 and 2013. As a result, PMC has published only one tree census in nearly 22 years since 1996. 
 
 As per the state government’s prescription, a tree census must be published once every five years. In effect, at least four such reports were to be brought out within the period.
 
 On condition of anonymity, an officer with the Tree Authority explained, “In response to a public interest litigation (PIL), the HC order in 2013 had given PMC three months to carry out a pilot project. The implementation of the   (GIS)-based tree census was planned on the basis of this pilot, carried out by an   (IIT) Bombay professor. Following this, a proposal was prepared and a tender was floated.”
 
 However, the officer pointed out that the process took three years. “Mumbai-based SAAR IT Resources Pvt Ltd began the census project in April 2016. The 2013 census had revealed that 38.60 lakh trees were found in the city, and we expect this number to cross 40 lakh this time,” the officer said.
 
 Yogesh Kute from SAAR IT shared that 80 participants, including botanists, forestry experts and taxonomists, are conducting the census. “We have so far covered 9.25 lakh trees, or about 30%, of the total survey area. There were some teething troubles when we began the survey but those are settled now and work continues uninterrupted,” he said.
 
 Further, Kute added, “Our team has been updating the PMC about the progress of the census on a weekly basis. Surveys and geo-tagging of trees is going on across all four zones of the city, with some data already compiled.”
 
