Balancing home,work and a hectic social life, invariably takes a toll on women at some point. The area of concern is that it is not just limited to the physical self. It can also affect your mental and emotional well-being deeply, albeit imperceptibly. Instead of ignoring this, take stock of your life and opt for wellness solutions that can help you heal and rejuvenate, inside out. There are different holistic healing treatments that change the neurological response to stress. These intense experiences reach you at a muscular, mental and emotional level and leaves you relaxed. We spoke to some experts, who shared with us the best ways to revive your tired self...

 
  Kapur, ironman triathlete and fitness expert says, “The progressive movement of awareness through the parts of the body in yoga nidra not only induces physical relaxation, but also clears the nerve pathways to the brain. It relaxes the mind by relaxing the body.” It is now prescribed by doctors in many countries both as a preventive and curative therapy in the first three stages of stress-related diseases. NIkhil adds, “Those who are seeking an efficient, scientific way of attaining deep, systematic relaxation, yoga nidra provides both a calming retreat and an effective coping device.” It works by changing the neurogenic reactivity to stress, creating somatic conditions essentially opposite to those prompted by sympathetic over-activity. 
 
 
 Clinical nutritionist and dietician   says, “A diet rich in carbohydrates (roti, rice, bread, poha and upma) focusing on good quality protein (egg whites, soya, quinoa, and pulses) helps to continue the functions of the body smoothly during menstruation when the uterine wall breaks down.” Eat whole grains like brown rice, pasta. She adds, “Include fruits, milk and green leafy vegetables as it helps to ease the flow during menstruation. Have vitamin D3 (cheese, egg yolks and fish are the richest sources of Vitamin D3).”
 
 
 
 Heading for an integrated wellness-destination-spa holiday is a great idea. Opt for a luxury spa that understands not just wellness therapies, yoga, fitness, ayurveda, other kinds of healing but provides wholesome nutrition 
 as well. Pamper your mind, body and soul to rejuvenate yourself holistically. 
 
 
 
 A hectic life that juggles work, home, relationships and kids’ demands, could lead to a huge amount of stress. Pranic healer   says, “This everyday stress negatively impacts physical, mental and spiritual energy. The chakras (wheels of energy) within the body works on the principle of controlling and balancing vital organs and their functions.” Pranic healing is a system of energy medicine which believes that the life force is all around us. The practitioner not only helps to remove the diseased energy, but also strengthens and energises the various chakras. A session of chakra healing can help today’s multitasking women. Sharmilee adds, “A balanced hormone system is essential for all the stages in a women’s life. While the lower chakras help in regulating the functions of sexual glands, the higher chakras have a strong influence on the pituitary functions.” 
 
 
 
 The ancient science of ayurveda and yoga also helps in bringing this homeostasis. Treatments such as   has been proven to be beneficial in treating menopausal syndromes and also managing the stress during puberty. Similarly, the yoga practices aimed at balancing hormone secretions also help in creating a homeostasis and if practiced from early ages in life can prevent hormone disorders such as PCOD or Fibroids and such common and serious issues prevalent among Indian women.
 
 
