With rapid growth in technology, the importance of a   police station has also increased for dealing tech-related crimes. In an interview with TOI’s Santosh Sonawane, inspector   — in charge of city’s first   station — speaks about the response from Nashikites to police station, the nature of complaints people are coming up with and awareness that is being spread among citizens by them.

 
 
 
  The government was of the view that cybercrime cells should be set up everywhere to tackle the rising instances of crimes that are taking place across the country. We also received a Government Resolution (GR) in this regard. On the basis of this GR, the cybercrime cell was set up in Nashik. Earlier, only Mumbai had such a cell. After Mumbai, Nashik is the second city in the state to get a cybercrime police station.
 
 
 
 
  Earlier, we had a cybercrime branch that was only for enquiry. The investigation was done by the concerned police station where the offence was registered. Now, after the cybercrime police station, we take complaints, register First Information Reports (FIR) and also conduct investigation. We have also been allotted a court where cases are put forth and chargesheets can be filed.
 
 
 
 
  The response from the people is positive. It has been three weeks since the police station has got operational and there is a stream of people at the police station regarding their complaints about various things. The complaints are more about social media   or applications. People come across certain problem, which is not an offence in the first place. However, we still solve their problems. If there is actually a crime through the internet, we register a case. We get about eight to 10 applications daily of minor problems related to Facebook, WhatsApp, among other   apps and websites. There are also bank frauds complaints. In case the cheating through internet is below Rs 1 lakh, the offence is registered with the concerned police station. Fraud above Rs 1 lakh is registered with us.
 
 
 
 
  We have formed a separate cell in this regard. In fact, there are three cells that have been formed. The first is for social media complaints, second for bank frauds and the last for WannaCry or Ransomeware. We have deployed our personnel who have degrees or diplomas in information technology and are also trained by experts. We are also spreading awareness in this regard on what should be done when their system is hit by Ransomware.
 
 
 
 
  Yes. There have been many programmes in the past. We had formed three groups for schools, corporate sector and residential areas. With the help of NGOs, who were ready to volunteer, we started spreading awareness among students, companies and residential areas. We have covered all the schools in Nashik city and spread awareness among students about safe use of internet. Meanwhile, awareness is also being spread among companies regarding bank frauds and also in residential areas about how to keep a strong password, how to use debit and credit cards safely, how to check if ATMs are cloned, among others.
 
 
 
  It was a case of multilevel marketing of virtual currency Bitcoin where people were made to invest. In such schemes, people initially do not understand that they are being taken for a ride as they keep getting money. But eventually the entire scheme disappears after which people realise that they are being cheated. In this case, we took proactive action to prevent investors from getting cheated. In this case, the concerned suspects told people about how the value of Bitcoin was increasing. In the end, the investors would have got nothing as Bitcoin is not approved in India. This virtual currency is used by people from the underworld. The people who were conducting seminars in Nashik have been arrested and are in our custody. We are investigating how many people have invested in this currency. If people have invested in Bitcoin, they should immediately contact the cybercrime police station. 
 
