LUCKNOW: The   ( ) is now all set to make it to text books of   universities. India’s biggest reform would be a part of management and commerce curriculum, said deputy CM and higher education minister  . The decision was taken at the vice-chancellor’s conference held on Thursday. 

 The move, said Sharma, was aimed at helping students of commerce and management streams to understand the newly introduced tax reform. Sources said, there would be one paper on the ‘one nation one tax’ and taught at UP state universities from next academic session. “It isn’t possible to introduce GST from this year as it needs due approval from various academic bodies including the Executive Council, the apex body which takes academic and administrative decisions,” said a vice-chancellor.
 
 The GST will replace the existing process of taxation taught at universities. “It will be introduced at under-graduate level,’’ he said. For this year, VCs have been advised to organise seminars, conferences to spread awareness about GST. 
 
 Chaired by governor  , who is also the chancellor of state universities, and deputy CM Sharma, the   saw in-principle approval for increasing the tenure of the state universities vice-chancellors’ from the existing three years to five years. Also, the age of superannuation of university teachers was increased to 65 years from the currently 62 years. It was decided to increase the extraordinary leave from presently five years. A provision of voluntary retirement scheme (VRS) will also be extended to the universities. 
 
 Briefing the media, Sharma said, grade III appointments in the universities will now be under the purview of  . Till now, recruitments at grade III (clerical) level in universities were done by Uttar Pradesh Subordinate Services Selection Commission (UPSSSC). “When VCs are capable of appointing a professor rank teacher, then why can’t they recruit class III employees,’’ Sharma argued. He added, all universities must advertise their vacant posts of teachers latest by August 15. 
 
 In order to impart good quality teaching, Sharma said, teachers should upload their lectures online before taking classes. This should be done on a pilot basis in two departments in each university. 
 
 
 
