KOPPAL:   is a piece of cake for this father-son duo. They came up with the idea of using   to protect their   from the  , and now, their fields have become a   for farmers. 

 They expect an income of Rs 12 lakh from their crop over 2 acres. Hemaraddi Kalgudi, a retired physical education teacher, said it's the second year he's experimenting with protecting fruits after he became a full-time farmer. "I'd work in the morning and evening and on holidays when I was a teacher for 36 years. The yield of different crops was average and we had not thought of any innovations. When we found pomegranate fruits were losing their quality due to sunburns, we wanted to protect them at the lowest cost," he added.
 
 He recalled that last year he used old newspapers to cover fruits. "It was easy to staple papers as each plant had 25-40 fruits. When the temperature increased, the fruits started cracking. This time, we decided to use saris to cover all 670 plants. We visited Hubballi and purchased 300 saris, each costing Rs 40. We covered a few plants which had a smaller number of nuts and fruits with newspapers," he added.
 
 His son Sanjeevaraddi Kalgudi, a physical education director at a private college in Gadag, said last year's income was about Rs 6 lakh. "This time, we expect Rs 12 lakh as the quantity and quality are enhanced after our innovative measures," he added. He mentioned that a farmer had used dining table cloth at a cost of Rs 60,000. "As that was too costly, we used newspapers last year and saris this year," he said.
 
  Both said their measures are not endorsed by the agriculture and horticulture departments. "May farmers are visiting our fields and asking details about initiatives," they added. Suresh Sangaraddi, a journalist from neighboring Ghataraddihal village, said this field has become a tourist spot. "It's a considerable achievement when farmers are affected by severe drought. The government should identify these economical and sustainable experiments and encourage such innovative farmers," he added. 
 
 
