NAGPUR: With the state government notifying 172.86 sqkm area Mansinghdeo Wildlife Sanctuary in Nagpur district as a critical tiger habitat (CTH), the 257.26-sqkm   (PTR), Maharashtra, has increased to 430.12 sqkm.

 Mansinghdeo, with an area of 183 sqkm, was notified as a sanctuary on November 2, 2010. It has three ranges — Saleghat, Chorbahuli , and Deolapar.
 
 “Despite being contiguous to Pench, until now it was dubbed to be buffer of Pench. Now the 172.86 sqkm reserve forest area with 64 compartments of the 183 sqkm Mansinghdeo sanctuary has been notified as CTH,” said Rishikesh Ranjan, chief conservator of forests ( ) & field director.
 
 “The objective of notifying core or CTH is to have a good combination of tiger habitat and prey species. It will look into the future of tigers and see that they can disperse and that there will be no shortage of prey species,” Ranjan said.
 
 Under the provisions of Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972, as amended in 2006, a tiger reserve consists of core or critical tiger habitat and the buffer/peripheral area. The ministry of environment, forest & climate change (MoEFCC) has notified an area of 31,207.11 sqkm in 16 states as CTH.
 
 Pench National Park was already declared a CTH on December 27, 2007. However, in 2014, a committee of experts recommended to declare Mansinghdeo as CTH on the basis of scientific and objective criteria that said that areas adjoining Pench be kept inviolate for tiger conservation.
 
 The   ( ) had also granted its approval on September 9, 2014 to declare Mansinghdeo sanctuary as part of Pench.
 
 “The move aims at incremental improvement of tiger habitats and betterment of the people too. Till now, the sanctuary was a core area but was shown as buffer. Still there is a huge area in Parsheoni and   ranges which has enough scope to be included in CTH,” said Prafulla Bhamburkar, one of the expert committee members.
 
 The Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972, as well as the Scheduled Tribes and other   (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act 2006, require that the rights of the people (schedule tribes and traditional forest dwellers) living in the core or CTH may be modified and they be resettled for providing inviolate space to tigers. 
 
 “We are already in process of relocating Fulzari village inside Pench. There will be a dialogue with villagers of Saleghat and they will be relocated outside the reserve,” said Ranjan.
 
 
