NAGPUR: Fortune favours the brave and the courageous moves played by   took higher ranked International Master (IM)   by surprise as the giant-killing act produced by the 11-year-old gave him the joint 4th position after the penultimate round of the 1st  .

 While Raunak's attacking instincts paid him rich dividends, Akash Thakur too made his presence felt with a convincing win over lower ranked  . On a day of fluctuating fortunes,   and   found their fancied opponents too tough to handle to go down fighting in the 8th round of the nine-day meet.
 
 The nine-round international invitational tournament for players above 1500 Elo points is being played at the Sharjah Chess and Culture Club.
 
 City's youngest Fide Master (FM) Raunak, who twice held experienced Indian IMs in the earlier rounds, opted for a brave and unique F5 move in the initial stage to upset 34-year-old Rathnakaran for this crucial win.
 
 Having bounced back in style, Raunak now needs to beat Uzbekistan's Yakubboev Nodirbek in the 9th and final round, to get his maiden IM norm.
 
 The 38th board battle saw Rathnakaran, playing with whites, started with the regular Kings Pawn opening move while Raunak opted for the Caro-can defence. Playing aggressively, Raunak opened with a F5 move. The risk that Raunak took gave him a better position while Rathnakaran looked to sign the peace treaty.
 
 In the end game that was between Raunak's Queen and Rathnakaran's Bishop and Rook, the FM forced seasoned IM to resign in the 65th move.
 
 Raunak's coach and first Grandmaster of the region   said, "For an 11-year-old to opt for this rare F5 move in the opening itself is a unique and brave move. Raunak's risk taking effort and aggressive approach gave him the desired result and surprised senior IM. Rathnakaran was eyeing for a draw but Raunak kept his cool in the dying stage to take full points."
 
 From the 70th place on Thursday to 45th spot on Friday, Raunak has improved his position in the ranking list after the 8th round.
 
 On the 41st board, fellow FM Akash Thakur, playing with the black bits, made light work of Vantika Agrawal to join Raunak at the 4th position. With white pieces against GA Stany in the final round, Thakur will look to improve his position.
 
 For 14-year-old Sankalp Gupta the Uzbekistan's Yakubboev Nodirbek was too tough to handle on the 34th board. Utilizing his opening advantage with the white pieces, Nodirbek defeated the Kings Indian defence of Sankalp in a mere 32 moves. Sankalp will square up against country mate Viani Antonio Dcunha on Saturday.
 
 Similarly on the 36th board, Amravati's Pawan Dodeja failed to defend well with the black pieces to go down fighting against Indian IM and higher ranked  . In the final round, he will take on Indian GM Lalith Babu.
 
