An alert   managed to save a woman’s life by halting a Churchgate-bound fast train in the nick of time, just inches away from her.   (WR) administration is now planning to felicitate the motorman   for his quick thinking which averted an accident at   station. The incident which was captured by a few onlookers standing on the platform has since gone viral.
 
  On December 6, a woman, possibly a rag picker, was walking along the tracks, unmindful of the train that was coming her way. Gautam, who was piloting a Churchgate-bound fast train at 12:10 am, saw her walking on the tracks soon after he left Grant Road railway station. The fast train had turned slow after reaching Mumbai Central and was to stop at the next three stations before Churchgate.
  
  Recalling the incident, Gautam explained that after crossing  , he reduced the speed of the train from 75 kmph to 70 kmph to have a better control of the train as it was moving over a cross over. The next scheduled halt of the train was Charni Road station, which is when Gautam spotted a woman walking on the tracks towards him. Despite his repeated honking, the woman continued to walk in the direction of the approaching train.
  
  Gautam, in his statement to the Western Railway, stated that he immediately tried to bring the train to a halt but as the train was still at 70 kmph, he was unsure if it would halt in time. “I was seated in the motorman’s cabin and jumped to get the train to a halt.” When the train came close to her, the woman tried to climb up on the platform along the track but could not do so as the platform was at a height making it difficult for her to climb up.
  
  When the train halted, Gautam jumped out of his cabin and went up to the next compartment to seek help from a few passengers and lifted the woman onto the platform. Gautam said, “I halted the train for a few minutes and spoke to the guard on the further course of action as the train had halted in the middle of the platform.” The train was then taken further to the scheduled place of the halt before continuing its journey to Churchgate. Divisional Railway Manager of Western Railway, Mukul Jain said, “We generally reward motormen who report rail fractures and such incidents while being on duty. We do appreciate his work and will also reward him.”
  
  Meanwhile, the Government Railway Police is trying to trace the woman and they will also be recording the statement of the motorman.
 
  
  
