GURUGRAM: Once the dream address in the city, the ‘mall mile’ has now become a nuisance, especially for residents living near it. One of their biggest concerns is rampant   in the area, which is only getting bigger by the day.

 According to residents of societies such as The Heritage City, Beverly Park 1 and 2, and Essel Towers, the problem of prostitution has only become worse over the last 10 years, as the trade, which was earlier restricted to near Sahara mall, has now expanded to multiple spots on  , and to other malls in the  .
 
 “After police started a clean up drive, people involved in prostitution shifted their business here. Sometimes,   can be seen parked right in front of residential societies. It’s embarrassing when one has to pass by the blatant displays of flesh trade while returning from a movie or dinner with the family,” said Henry Ledlie, who lives in The Heritage City.
 
 Many residents have now started avoiding coming out late at night, to avoid uncomfortable situations. They say the problem gets aggravated on weekends, when there is a bigger crowd, making it even more uncomfortable for families.
 
  police have conducted periodic drives to clean out the area and discourage prostitution. However, contrary to their claims, these drives are effective only for a maximum of 24 hours. A day later, the   and prostitutes find their way back on the streets. Around two months back, residents of Essel Towers got a rude shock when one night they found some scantily dressed women outside their gate, along with their pimps. “We got our security guards to manage the situation, but when we later approached Sector 29 police station, the cops said they can do nothing about it,” said Rajeev Sinha, president, Essel Towers RWA.
 
 He added that to save themselves from police, many prostitutes and pimps hire an auto and keep moving around, looking for clients. This way, cops cannot hold them accountable. However, even in cases where action is possible, residents accuse cops of inaction.
 
 Police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar said, “We are conducting regular drives to check prostitution on MG Road. The problem has been contained to a large extent. However, it is yet to be fully eradicated.”
 
