. Edited excerpts:

 
 
 This round is different from our past fund-raises. For the first time three global tech giants have come together to invest in us, which is an approval of our market leadership and talent that we have. It's also based on the opportunity that lies ahead. These investors know that online retail has a penetration of only 2% and the potential is limitless.There are opportunities beyond retail in areas such as payments and fin-tech where Tencent can be an important strategic partner. Overall this is a very strong signal -it not only brings capital but different strategic capabilities and inputs from our partners.
 
 
 
 There was a vicious cycle where bad news was generating more bad news. This investment breaks that cycle and it can drive the momentum and show that Indian startup ecosystem is thriving and succeeding in solving genuine real-life problems, especially now that there is scale on the internet side.
 
 
 
 Everything is possible.
 
 
 
 For us, it's been our management and employees. We believe customer experience and innovation are key ingredients to build sustainable businesses. Since past one year, we have made tremendous strides in areas like customer experience, growth, profitability, and bringing the burn down in a big way. In fact, post this capital raise, our biggest investments will be in the new growth businesses.
 
 
 
 For all our core businesses the top most goal is to get to free cash flow and yet continue growing. We won't be using new capital for these categories. Areas like customer experience, AI, automation, grocery, private labels, furniture will get fresh funds. Also, adjacent businesses will see good part of capital getting deployed like PhonePe for scaling up. Our core business is well on track from growth and profitability target. They are self-sufficient from capital need perspective.
 
 
 
 We have shown in the last six months that if you focus on your customers, improve experience and innovate in the right manner, you can continue to grow, better your margins and not get bothered by competition.
 
 
 
 We have reduced cash burn by about 30% over last seven-eight months and started getting growth momentum back in a big way on the GMV (gross merchandise value) side. I think the other indicator is the number of orders per customer and average basket size on Myntra -they are very positive.
 
 
 
 We are taking a long-term view of opportunities in our portfolio in every area with no specific plans for an IPO. I think we are well capitalised and we enjoy the support of our existing investors who are also looking at these long-term opportunities.The focus is on execution and delivering good growth over the next few quarters.
 
 
 
 That was till six-eight months back. We've seen great momentum in large appliances, fashion, mobiles and are betting big on private labels, furniture and grocery, which are categories of the future. This makes us positive about growth coming back. The market got overheated in 2015 and a lull set in last year, but that's not there anymore for us. We are looking to get to 50-70% growth this year.
 
