LUCKNOW: Two persons died while two more were injured fatally after a   in the   at an   in Chinhat on Sunday evening. Apart from bottling of water, ice cream was also manufactured at the unit located off   near Kamta crossing. The explosion led to panic in the area and impact of the blast was so powerful, an iron gate came off and fell on the road damaging a car parked outside.

 According to police, the compressor exploded and damaged the container in which ammonia gas was stored to make ice cream. Compressor of water filter machine installed at the unit was not working and mechanics from Aliganj identified as Sajid (26), Zafar (25) and Ahad (18) were summoned to repair the machine around 6pm on Sunday.
 
 As they were working on the machine, the compressor exploded. Pieces of the damaged machine flung in the air and Sajid who was closest by, died instantaneously.
 
 The three mechanics were rushed to Ram Manohar Lohia hospital where Sajid was declared brought dead while Zafar and Ahad were referred to KGMU trauma centre. Zafar too succumbed to injuries while Ahad’s health condition was extremely serious.
 
 The unit belonged to Vikrant Sareen and police were checking if he had taken all due permission. “An FIR against people who were running the unit will be registered under IPC section 304A which amounts to causing death by negligence,” said SSP Lucknow Deepak Kumar. The fourth injured was Sareen’s employee and a close aide.
 
 While inspecting the unit, police found thousands of water canters at the unit. Sareen supplied drinking water at marriages, events and to other vendors in the city and also sold ice cream. Police were coordinating with food safety and drug administration department to find whether Sareen had taken licence and permission to run the units and machines installed at facility were tested by administration in the past. Recently, FSDA department had sealed down three water bottling plants in Takrohi, Indiranagar as they were operating illegally.
 
 
