THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The government has accorded more powers to   pertaining to decisions on   (RR) cases, so as to reduce the difficulties of people approaching the government seeking relief on  .

 In the order issued by the revenue department on January 17, on the basis of the cabinet decision in this regard, the government has delegated powers to tahsildars to sanction repayments of revenue dues up to Rs 25,000 through a maximum of 10 installments. The district collectors can now take a call on amounts up to Rs 2 lakh in the case of bank loans and up to Rs 1 lakh in the case of dues to the government.
 
 Though the government does not permit granting stay orders on the revenue dues, permission is granted in deserving cases, staying one-time settlement of dues by converting them to equal installments. The new order was issued after those approaching the government from far off places, especially those from northern districts, have to come to government for seeking a favour in this regard as many of them have large sum as revenue dues.
 
 Though according to the earlier order issued in 2012, the finance minister had no role in issuing stay and sanctioning payments in instalments, the latest order permits the finance minister to take decisions on dues up to Rs 10 lakh. The revenue minister can take a call on amounts up to Rs 5 lakh. Defaulters, who have to pay above Rs 10 lakh, will have to go to the chief minister for availing clearance for payment in instalments.
 
 The revenue dues to the government include dues under sales tax, agriculture income tax, excise tax, motor vehicle tax and forest dues. But despite all such orders, the successive governments have been sanctioning indefinite stay for large defaulters, mostly under political or other kind of influences.
 
 The classic case is the revenue recovery dues related to Kannur-based Agreenco limited that had defaulted Rs 29.11 crore. The previous   had stayed the revenue recovery process to recoup the sum from the organization. Interestingly, the present LDF government also has taken the same approach towards one of the highest defaulters of revenue arrears. According to sources in the revenue department, the government has extended the stay on revenue recovery process against the organization till March 31.
 
