NEW DELHI: The municipal poll atmosphere got even more charged on Monday with Janta Dal (United) announcing its decision to field its candidates in all 272 wards. JD(U), which will be contesting on all seats for the first time, will sell “Brand Nitish” among the migrants from Bihar and eastern Uttar Pradesh who form a critical votebank in the capital.

 Political observers have termed this a significant development. Bihar CM  , all ministers and 71 MLAs of JD(U) will be camping in Delhi during the polls in April. Nitish is expected to address his first rally after Holi.
 
 “Bihari migrants want the model of Nitish’s governance in civic bodies. They have immense faith in his ability and vision and that’s why they voted him to power in Bihar,” said JD(U) Delhi in-charge  .
 
 This poll plan of JD(U), however, will take a toll on the bonhomie between Nitish and  . The two had supported each other in the assembly elections of Bihar and Delhi in 2015.
 
 With the friendship losing its warmth, JD(U) has started spotting shortcomings in Kejriwal’s model of governance. “Kejriwal failed to keep the promises made during the 2015 assembly polls. Autorickshaw drivers were promised houses, electricity, free water, among other things, but they didn’t get anything. Even the registration fee of autos has been hiked. Now, Punjab is on AAP’s priority list,” Jha told TOI.
 
 JD(U) got the idea of contesting the civic polls after Nitish met Bihar migrants during his recent visit to Delhi. “AAP leaders pampered us before the elections, but have been avoiding us now,” a migrant told Nitish.
 
 An assessment tour was taken by party leaders to decide on contesting the civic polls. “We found that the villages of Bihar were in better condition than the jhuggis and unauthorised colonies of Delhi,” said Jha.
 
 In 2012, JD(U) contested on 12 seats for the first time, but lost all. While BSP councillor Nisha Shah joined JD(U) on December 3, 2016, around 100 applications are pending before the party. A few of the applications are from former councillors.
 
 The party’s strategists feel that migrants will vote for JD(U) candidates. “Modi and Kejriwal both promised to deliver, but didn’t. Nitish promised and delivered on all fronts, be it law and order, electricity, roads or other issues,” Jha said.
 
 After relaunching its Delhi unit in December 2016, JD(U) is working on a war footing to expand the base of the party. In the last three months, over 100 meetings have been held to woo voters.
 
 In January, Nitish had hosted a grand function at Patna to celebrate the 350th Parkash Parab. He struck a chord with the thousands of Sikhs who had travelled from across the globe to Patna. “The Sikhs will also vote for us,” said Raj Singh Maan, JD(U) Delhi president.
 
 
