GHAZIABAD: A 24-year-old woman was allegedly poisoned by her in-laws in   Sector 1 on Friday morning. 

 The woman,  , was rushed to a private hospital where her condition is stated to be stable. 
 
 While the father-in-law and brother-in-law of the woman have been detained, her husband Rahul Giri is on the run, said police. 
 
 Rahul owns a factory in the area which makes hardware spareparts.
 
 “My daughter Payal is married to Rahul Giri for the past 14 months. Shortly after marriage, when she went to her in-laws’ place in Vaishali, they began harassing her on some pretext or the other,” said Gajender Goswami, Payal’s father. 
 
 “Nearly two months ago, the matter came to such a pass that we called her to our house and she returned only after a common friend brokered peace between us,” said Goswami.
 
 Narrating Friday’s incident, Goswami said: “At around 7.30am, I got a call from one of Payal’s neighbours saying that they had taken her to  . When prodded further, they said that her in-laws have poisoned her,” said Goswami, who stays in Bamhetta village. “On reaching hospital, my daughter said that her brother-in-law Abhishek forced her to consume poison while her father-in-law Mahipal Giri watched,” said Goswami. 
 
 “She also named her husband Rahul Giri who was constantly harassing her ever since they got married,” said Goswami.
 
 The Giri family owns a flat in Vaishali Sector 1 where Rahul, his mother, father Mahipal and brother Abhishek stay. After Rahul’s marriage in January last year, Payal too came to live with them. According to Payal’s father, she holds a BBA degree.
 
 The police, on the complaint of Gajender Goswami, has filed a case against Payal’s husband Rahul, her father-in-law Mahipal and brother-in-law Abhishek. The case has been registered under sections 328 (causing hurt by means of poison), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 498 (detaining with criminal intent a married woman) and 498A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) of IPC.
 
 “We have detained Mahipal Giri and   and are looking for her husband Rahul who is on the run,” said Pradeep Tripathi, SHO, Indirapuram police station.
 
 According to police, Payal has exonerated her mother-in-law but named her husband, father-in-law and brother-in-law in the case.
 
