Rapper   might be settled in Canada for some time now, but the Chandigarh-born lad admits that he remains a true desi at heart. He was recently in Gurgaon for a gig, where he spoke to us about the city which he called home for two years almost a decade ago. "I stayed in Gurgaon for a short time around 2007-08. I used to live in Sector-18, but now, I’m not sure if I’d be able to reach that place, let alone recognize it. The city has changed so much in the last ten years that it is almost unrecognizable. The Gurgaon I lived in, and this Gurgaon, seem like two different cities," he says.

  Ask him about his favourite hangout spots from his days in Gurgaon, and he laughs and says, "In those days, we didn’t have any options. Everything was still coming up. There wasn’t a lot to do. This current generation that lives here is luckier in that way."
 
  While Aujla is all praises for the city's transformation, he throws in a word of caution to the city planners, saying that they should not disturb the balance with nature. He elaborates, "The city has changed a lot, like I said. The pace of life has almost doubled from what I remember. Ab, sab badi jaldi mein rehte hain yahan. See, so many people here work in the MNCs, which is giving rise to newer hangout spots and entertainment venues, this is all good. But city's greenery has been compromised. It’s all concrete now, all buildings. A city does not develop only by making glass buildings and metro trains. It needs its parks, its trees, and a green cover. The city needs something to give its residents a break from the hectic schedule, and that’s why nature is important. A city like Gurgaon, where everyone is in a corporate setup, needs that balance with nature."
 
  The 'London' hitmaker says that he is happy seeing that Gurgaon has now become the preferred gig-hosting destination in NCR. "Before 2017, I last performed in Gurgaon some 2-3 years ago along with Honey bhai ( ). Earlier, the city had one odd concert, mostly private gigs, but that has changed now. This year, almost all my ‘Delhi’ gigs have been in Gurgaon. I have already been to Gurgaon for about half a dozen private gigs. In fact, any rapper or singer will tell you that these days that a Delhi gig means that the venue is in Gurgaon," says the rapper.
 
  
  (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam
 
 
  But Aujla clarifies that contrary to the popular opinion, there is not much that separates the Gurgaon crowd from the Delhi crowd. He says, "Gurgaon crowd is the Delhi crowd only. Saare Dilliwale Gurgaon hi party karne aate hain ab. So the gigs happen here. We artists also ask for bigger venues from organizers when signed-up for a Delhi-NCR gig, which are abundant in Gurgaon. In fact, even private events and weddings happen in Gurgaon more. For Delhi people, Gurgaon is the preferred centre for gigs. So even if it is a concert in Gurgaon, more than half the people in the crowd are from Delhi."
 
 
