CHANDIGARH: On the over 80km of   spread across Chandigarh, one can often   and cars   on the road, but bicycles are a rarity .

 The reasons are plenty: to begin with, a majority of these tracks are riddled with potholes, threatening the safety of cyclists. There are no proper entry and exit points. All tracks   and some of them have been encroached upon by street vendors. Such has been the neglect faced by these tracks that the ones crossing the district courts in Sector 43 are used for car parking by litigants.
 
 For long now, the Chandigarh administration and municipal corporation have been making claims of making Chandigarh a cycle-friendly city. Even in proposals submitted to the Centre under the Smart City Project, a lot of emphasis has been laid on providing walking and cycling tracks on all major roads of the city.
 
 A TOI team, along with cycling expert Dr Rakesh Mohindra, took a ride on some of the tracks and found that the claims of the authorities do not hold water. Many of the tracks either had potholes or had people using them as parking areas. At some places, shrubs had started growing along the tracks -the step-motherly treatment, in this case, did not have a north-south divide and neglect was visible in northern sectors too.
 
 Cycle tracks are unusable after sunset as they do not have provision of lighting. Roundabouts also pose problems for cyclists.
 
 Criticising the authorities for their lax attitude, Dr Rakesh Mohindra, who is secretary of Chandigarh Cycling, said they had so far not done enough for making people start using cycling tracks. “Most of the tracks are in a bad condition and require immediate repairs. There are no signages on any of the tracks,“ rued Mohindra, who is assisting municipal corporations of many cities in developing infrastructure for  
 
 Mohindra, also a Union Cycliste Internationale (International Cycling Union) referee, maintained that tracks merge into fast moving traffic abruptly, making them unsafe. “There is a need to provide proper integration along with the zebracrossing near intersections,“ he said.
 
