On July 4, Hyderabad Times reported about heavy machines dumping mud on the banks of   to lay a walkway (‘GHMC, stop choking the Kapra lake to death’). That led members of   (SOUL), a citizens’ initiative for saving city water bodies, to demand the resignation of the Superintending Engineer (Hyderabad Lakes & Water bodies Management Circle) and the MRO (Keesara Mandal). Responding to the report, executive engineer of the civic body’s North Tanks Division (EE-NTD), Y Shekhar Reddy, says no illegal construction or violation of law has been committed as alleged. He also pointed out that the   is taking measures to protect Kapra from unauthorised dumping and initiate a process of constant vigil, and that the walkway is planned “only along the fenced boundary of the lake...”
However, the GHMC’s rebuttal has cut no ice with SOUL, whose co-convenor, Dr Lubna Sarwath, has now shot off a missive of her own. While the jury is out on it, Hyderabad Times shines the light on the conflicting versions of the GHMC and SOUL.
 
 
 
 
 
 No violation of law or illegal construction is being done as alleged by the SOUL representative. The GHMC has, in turn, taken initiative and a drive to protect the lake from encroachment by erecting chain link mesh fencing all around the lake FTL (Full Tank Level) boundary. The fencing will also prevent permanent construction from putting pressure on the water body. Hence, the lake is protected from further encroachments.
 
 
 The EE-NTD has fouled the lake and rendered it not ‘occupiable’ by water for which it is ordinarily used. When FTL boundaries are not clearly demarcated and maps are still in drafting stage, why did the EE-NTD hastily fence the Kapra cheruvu near Survey No. 634 in March 2017 just before inspection? What are the boundaries that EE-NTD is protecting when they are contentiously demarcated and also sub judice? Plus, different ‘FTL sketches’ have been presented to different authorities, and that explains how they compromised lake boundaries to accommodate encroaches.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 It is intended to protect the lake from unauthorised dumping and to have a continuous vigil along the lake boundary, so the formation of a walking track is planned. This track will be along the fenced boundary with grave(l) excavated from the lake bed. The walking track is adjoined by plantations on either side which facilitates better environment and ecological balance. A massive plantation drive has been contemplated along the lake boundary in buffer zone width, wherever available, to promote greenery. The track formed is provided with side drains all along its length to collect and carry storm water, which in turn lead to the pipe culverts to be constructed at inlet points. Hence, there won’t be any obstructions to rain water and danger to aquatic life. 
 
 
 Kapra Cheruvu is a notified heritage water body. EE-NTD cannot convert lake area into land. His plan to make a pathway out of lake area is illegal and in contravention of law. As per rules, the ‘designated officer shall have the power to prevent and remove encroachments into the demarcated area of the water body’. Is EE-NTD the ‘designated authority’? What are the encroachments identified and removed? 
 Any construction inside the area of ‘irrigation work’ (viz Kapra cheruvu) can come up only for facilitating construction of the lake, pond, channel, etc. and not for a fanciful walkway as is being constructed by EE-NTD. 
 
  
 
 
 
 It is also intended to clear off the debris already dumped along the shore line and keep it free from litter. Representatives from surrounding colonies are requesting for developing the lake such as fencing, formation of walking track and providing other essential facilities.
 
 
 
 In September 2016, the EE-NTD submitted to the High Court that all encroachments have been removed. But, the respondents themselves demolished around 2 metres of compound wall during an inspection on March 23, 2017, in the presence of SOUL members. In April 2010, a 19-member Lake Protection Committee was constituted to ‘demarcate FTL boundaries’ and evict encroachments and prevent silting and pollution of lakes. However, EE-NTD’s illegal road/pathway construction was neither discussed in LPC nor was any approval obtained.
 
  
 
 
 With respect to the allegation made on badminton and tennis academy, no construction is under progress and the Judicial Registrar of Telangana High Court and Andhra Pradesh has conducted inspection of the above structures, so as to submit ground realities before the High Court.
 
 
 The MRO and the official team of DE-North Tanks Division had in their possession the location sketch dated July 31, 2001, which showed quite an extensive area of Survey no. 634 covered by the lake, with the Indoor Badminton Court and Open Tennis Court falling in the FTL water zone. Besides, a joint inspection was conducted on February 2, 2014, by EE-NTD, revenue, irrigation and GHMC officials with SOUL members, when a pillar to pillar report of Oora Cheruvu Kapra was submitted to the Lokayukta. As per the report, a “tennis court is formed in the FTL Buffer Zone” and construction for a “Badminton Academy is in progress adjacent to these pillars”. In the buffer zone, construction activities by one G Bal Reddy were observed. He claimed that the land belongs to him and objected entry to us as per court directions.
 
