Q. A large number of   are being constructed in the city but the condition of other roads is appalling. What are you going to do about them?

 A. We have already building cement roads worth Rs700 crore. In the coming months, NMC will build more cement roads. We will seek funds from state government for this. Once the roads become concretized there will be no need for their maintenance. The money thus saved will be used for maintaining internal roads. In any case, we plan to concretize most roads in next 10 years.
 
 Q. The NMC is claiming that 24X7 water supply project is a success. However, there are a large number of localities that are getting water on alternate days. NMC still uses tankers to supply water to many areas. When will all areas of the city get regular water?
 
 A. The city has adequate water supply. The problem is only with distribution and we are addressing it. Till now about 60% of the city has come under 24X7 water supply scheme. Another 10% will be covered in coming six months. Some Rs130 crore under   (JNNURM) funds were stuck and state government has agreed to release them. This will expedite the project. We will get funds under Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) too. As of now only 10 to 15 localities are getting water supply on alternate days. They will get regular water soon. We will make the city tanker free within a year.
 
 Q. What about Hudkeshwar and Narsala? They are not covered under 24X7 project
 
 A. Government has sanctioned money for them under peripheral area development scheme. We are building seven overhead tanks in the two areas. In my opinion, once the distribution network is ready it should be handed over to OCW for operation and maintenance.
 
 Q. The city bus service is in shambles. When are the new buses going to hit the roads? What has happened to the green buses?
 
 A. The green buses were supposed to start plying in February. The new civic body will pursue the matter after March 5. We will also introduce 216 new air-conditioned minibuses.
 
 Q. Are there any new plans for the next five years?
 
 A. Yes, a lot many. All of them are mentioned in our party manifesto. We are serious about them.
 
 (  is city BJP president and MLA from   constituency)
 
 
