
 Over the years TV has became a very strong medium. TV is 
  more an idiot box. TV is changing in terms of content. In past couple of years we have seen some very nice shows like Bade Ache lagte Hai, Kuch Rang Pyar Ke Aise Bhi, POW, Balika Vadhu,24, Bhabhi ji. And many of them were totally different from Saas Bahu type shows, which is a good change. 
 
 
 
  Well all these shows have a huge fan following .Most of them are ruling the TRP charts since years. Not only in   these shows are popular abroad also. Do I need to say more ?
 
  
 
  As much as people can relate to it, If they are watching a show, they should feel' oh that girl is just like me', that's how my family behaves, this house looks like my house. If we can go this far guess it is just perfect.
 
  
 
 I miss old TV days of the 90s when we had some beautifully made TV shows like Shanti, Buniyad, Circus, Hum Panch. In that era it used to be called a TV serial not a TV soap .I always think when in those days such shows can be made why can't we make them now? Honestly I feel when world cinema and TV is changing in terms of realistic approach towards content and characterization somehow we are still stuck in kitchen politics, upper lower 
 , fantasy world ,heavy saris and bindis .I strongly feel this needs to be changed. And second thing which bothers me sometimes is trp ratings.There are   when a good show shuts down because of low trps which is sad .
 
  
 
 Everybody is loving   but once a fan sent us a mail which stated, "'Badho Bahu is like fresh breeze which makes you feel happy". We keeping getting such positive mails and massage through social sites. Hope Badho Bahu keep getting such love and affection from the audience
 
  
 
 Badho Bahu is like a first baby to us. It is very close to our heart. We are trying to give something different to the audience . A show where they can laugh and cry at the same time. A very simple approach, very real characters so that everybody can relate to it and can fall in love with it. In terms of TRPS show is doing good too. We just hope to continue doing good.
 
  
  
 
 
 
