KOLKATA: Chaos reigned on   near   on Monday evening as patrons of a popular watering hole there got into a fight with residents of the area.

 The police rushed to the spot and brought the situation under control but not before the residents staged a demonstration, alleging some of the patrons at the bar often misbehaved with them after having a bit too much to drink.
 
 Confirming the brawl, Embassy Bar and Restaurant owner Chandresh Meghani said he had already taken steps to prevent any such incident in future. “What happened is unfortunate and I sympathize with the locals as they are my neighbours as well. I have instructed my staff to ensure that our guests do not disturb the locals,” he said. Apart from shops on the ground floors of nearly all the buildings, the area homes around 5,000 people.
 
 Trouble started with one of the patrons relieving himself on the pavement, close to where a man was having his dinner at a food stall. Imran Khan, who lives in the neighbourhood, said when the inebriated man was told to stop, he turned abusive and even threatened the person eating at the stall with dire consequences. “When I tried to intervene, the guest took out an iron rod and hit me,” said Mangal Pandey, who was also present on the spot.
 
 Alarmed by Pandey’s cries, other people from the locality rushed in. “We asked the bar management to intervene and to ensure their patrons did not commit such nuisance outside. As the bar owners have been running a business here for such a long time, we thought it was prudent to have a word with them first,” said Anwar Ali Khan, another resident of the area. “The bouncers, however, tried to help the patrons, but they were outnumbered by the locals,” added Khan, Subsequently, the residents of the area lodged a complaint at the Bowbazar police station.
 
 Masoom Akhtar, who lived in a multi-storied building on Prinsep Street, claimed trouble had become more frequent over the past few years, ever since singers started performing at the bar. “Some guests and performers behave indecently, even on the street. At times, things get so bad that women are scared to walk down their own neighbourhood,” Akhtar said. “We have stopped going for night shows at theatres with families as by the time we return, the patrons of the bar usually loiter on the streets. We have even stopped inviting guests over for dinner. We informed the bar owners about the trouble even earlier, but they did not seem to pay much heed.”
 
 Harpal Singh, who runs a hotel in the area, complained even his guests were sometimes disturbed by drunk men from the bar. “The patrons are vulgar at times. I instruct the women working at my shop not to step out in the evening unless they are going home,” said Sanju Ghosh, who has been running a telecom shop there for the past 30 years.
 
