BENGALURU: The 19-year-old son of an income-tax officer, abducted 10 days ago for ransom, was strangled to death by his captors, police said on Friday after his body was exhumed from a quarry . The crime was masterminded by a family friend and neighbour.

 The body of   N, son of income-tax officer V Niranjan Kumar, was found at a quarry near Manchanabele dam, west of Bengaluru, where it had been buried by the culprits. He was killed soon after the abduction.
 
 The police have arrested four of the five culprits -the mastermind of the crime HP Vishal (21), Vinay Prasad alias Vicky (24), Karan Pai (22) and Vinod Kumar V (24).
 
 City police commissioner T Suneel Kumar said they had launched a manhunt for the fifth absconding accused, Shanta Kumar. An abductionfor-ransom plot in Bengaluru went haywire after alleged mastermind Vishal visited the house of the victim. Vishal ordered his associ ates to kill Sharath even as five police teams we re conducting searches. Vishal and his aides then decided to dispose of the body in the quarry .
 
 They tied stones to the bo dy and pushed it into the nearby Ramohalli lake.
 
 On September 20, as the body surfaced, they carried it to a quarry near Machanabele dam, about 5km from the lake, and buried it.
 
 Sharath was a diploma student with Acharya Institute of Technology , Soladevanahalli. He is survived by his parents and elder sister Shalini N, also a diploma student.
 
 The police commissioner said Vishal and Vicky hatched the conspiracy and roped in their three aides. Vishal, a diploma student in a private college, was also a tout at an RTO office. Vicky is a cab driver and got to know Vishal through his niece. Vishal told Vicky that his neighbour was a “rich“ income-tax officer and abducting his son could help them financially .
 
 The two then brought in Vinod, also a cab driver, and Pai, who works at a factory .
 
 “Vishal and Vicky convinced others, saying they can settle down in life if they abduct Sharath and raise huge money as ransom,“ the police said.
 
