BENGALURU: Over the past decade, farmers in Karnataka have been reeling under low price realization for their crops -leading to declining rural incomes and a rising number of suicides. The main reason for this is that they easily fall prey to middlemen and wholesale traders, who often take them for a ride, quoting low prices.

 That sad story may now come to an end, if the state government has its way .
 
 In a first of its kind, the   has mooted a proposal to enact the Right to Remunerative Prices Act to give statutory powers to its agriculture agencies to initiate legal action against those who buy goods below the minimum support price ( ).
 
 KAPC chair man T N   said the government, as of now, has no powers to initiate action against anyone who buys crops from farmers for less than the MSP . By giving statutory status to the commission and state agriculture department, he said it can guarantee income security to all farmers of the state. “Under the proposed law, the government can initiate legal action against traders that includes confiscation of stock, imprisonment, penalty , among other things,'' he added.
 
 Impressed by the proposal, he said the government referred it to National Law School, Bengaluru, to seek an expert report before preparing a draft bill. Kamaraddi said the support price will ensure farmers get the actual cost of production for crops.
 
 Welcoming the move, Kurbur Shantakumar, state president of the Sugarcane Growers' Association, said it has been one of their long pending demands. Though the government announced MSP for various crops, no traders bought at that price, other than the government agencies.
 
 This, he said, was because they knew the government could do nothing if they buy at a lower rate.
 
 He cited the example of paddy , where the government announced MSP of Rs 1,500 per quintal. But farmers across the state were forced to sell their produce to private rice millers and traders at much lower rates. “Many of them ended up selling for Rs 700 to Rs 1,100 per quintal,'' he alleged.
 
 As of now, only the Centre has the powers to announce statutory minimum price and fair and remunerative price for sugarcane, and the power to initiate legal action, if they find anyone buying produce for prices less than MSP .
 
