PATNA: The governing board of the   (NU) in its first meeting held in New Delhi on Friday under the chairmanship of newly appointed chancellor   gave its nod for the constitution of a search-cum- selection committee to find a new vice-chancellor ( ). The board also discussed ongoing construction works for developing the university campus and the possibility of fast forwarding it so that the maximum number of students can be absorbed.

 NU had awarded the work for construction of non-residential buildings and other allied works to M/s NCC Limited, Hyderabad on January 27. The non-residential buildings constitute a major part of the university’s phase-I construction programme of its proposed campus. The work at the site is slated to begin by the end of this month and conclude within 36 months.
 
 According to sources, the board agreed to constitute a five-member search committee for finding the new vice-chancellor. “The search committee, which will be headed by the chancellor, will suggest three names to the governing board that will finally select one and send it to the President of India for final approval,” said a source.
 
 Apart from the chancellor, the members of the search committee include ICCR president  , N K Singh, Dr   from McGill University and Preeti Saran, secretary (East), ministry of external affairs. The search committee would first shortlist 12 candidates from the applications already received by the last search committee. The process of appointment of the new VC is targeted to be completed within a month. 
 
 President Mukherjee had on November 20 last year issued an order asking former VC Gopa Sabharwal to demit office by November 24. Gopa was appointed as the VC for a five-year term on November 25, 2010. Later, she was given an extension for a period of one year on October 25.
 
 Meanwhile, NU’s previous governing board formed a five-member search committee in January last year for appointing Gopa’s successor and international advertisements were issued in the month of October. Sources claimed that around 150 applications were received against the advertisement. However, the process is now required to be taken afresh with the constitution of the new governing board.
 
 The new governing board has 14 members with the chancellor as the chairperson. Other members include the (acting) VC, secretary, higher education, Government of India, secretary (east), Ministry of external affairs and five members to be nominated by India, China, Australia, Laos PDR and Thailand. India has nominated Singh as its representative. Besides, Professor Arvind Sharma from McGill University of Canada, Indian Council for Cultural Relations president professor Lokesh Chandra and Niti Aayog vice-chairman Dr Arvind Panagariya have been nominated for three seats reserved for the ‘renowned academicians/educationists’ category
 
 
