With most colleges settling into their routine for this academic year, electing student representatives to iron out the transition into academic rigour is at the top of the list for all institutions; and Mount Carmel Pre-University College hasn’t been far behind. The annual   elections for 2017-2018 was held at the college on the July 5, although the preparations for the event had been on for several days prior to it. Whiles the induction ceremony that was attended by Yaduveer Wadiyar, the Maharaja of Mysuru, we take a look at what went into the last two-week process of nominations, rigorous campaigns and victories.
 
  
 
  Possibly the most important event on their academic calendar, Mount Carmel PU College’s election is no light matter. “The college itself is very welcoming, so posts are open for nominations from any student on its roster. And the process is highly meticulous, with separate days being allotted for nominations, collecting support from signatories, submitting a resume, campaigning on fixed days and convincing the entire PU student populace of our mettle,” explains Monika Meredith, who was elected as the Council’s General Secretary for this year.
  The extensiveness and uniqueness of the college’s electoral proceedings come from the sheer range of activities that go into forming one individual’s  . Not only do they have to amass support and backing for themselves from other students, they’re also are required to convince panels of faculty members and persons in their Welfare Committee of their skill through a rigorous interview system. “Of the many people who register, around 3-4 applicants are finally screened through to the campaigning, which is wholly unique all by itself,” declares Lahar Jain, current Vice President of the MCC Student Council.
  Explaining the full course of student body elections, Medha Chandrashekhar — a first-year PU student of the college — says, “Two specific dates were allotted for campaigning, which was on July 1 and 3 this year. Each candidate got to select their team of campaign managers, who planned their strategy and accompanied them through the entire selections. In terms of the actual execution, the nominees were encouraged to go from class to class, perform for students there and attempt to garner their favour through their ability to entertain their peers.”
  The vast variety of ideas and shows put on by the electoral nominees during these sessions iconifies the   each year. While Lahar donned lungis and shades, sharing a catchy jingle with her college, Monika’s singing act with backup dancers earned her a lot of fans as well. “The days of campaigning are the absolute best. It feels like the entire campus comes alive during that period, and the amount of love and support shown to you by people you’ve hardly met before, is overwhelming!” Lahar states.
  
  
 
  After a formal round of voting on the July 5 — with Electronic Voting Machines — the induction of the Council was quick to follow. At a ceremony attended by Yaduveer Wadiyar, the results announcement ended with the formation of a zealous Student Council for the upcoming year.
  The Council has already begun with their official duties, working for over four hours a day to offer reliability, support and guidance to the 2,800-members-strong Mount Carmel student body. “We’re focusing mainly on the execution of Iris and Esplendida 2017 now, which are our intra and inter-collegiate fests that are nationally renowned. We’re already working towards setting concrete plans and themes for these events, along with the important job of managing finances,” says Monika.
  Every member of the Council had their electoral policies and their contributions to the college carefully planned, leaving a robust team with high aspirations for the institution. “We are super thankful to all the students who supported us, and plan on taking MCC on a path that leads to greater victories and glories indeed,” assures the Student Council. Every passing year, Mount Carmel has been consistent with its democratic ideologies, and has been furthering its achievements with able leaders holding the reins. The newly-formed body now stands to accomplish lots more in the upcoming academic year.
  
  - Sanjana Sindhe
  
