KOLKATA: A sprawling football field, a state-of-the-art sports academy, a top-ranking law institute and a huge swimming pool: St Xavier’s University that will commence its first session in July on its new sprawling campus in New Town is already taking steady strides towards its Vision 2025.

 The vision of the youngest university in the state also includes a sprawling food court spread over 3,500 sq ft, a separate wing dedicated to library and research and two hostels for boys and girls with a capacity of 1,000 students each. The academic building will have over 11 storeys, keeping in mind the demand for academic space a few decades later.
 
 “We are thinking of a scenario 50-100 years down the line. We will need more space to start new-age courses and accommodate more students,” said vice-chancellor Father Felix Raj.
 
 Classes will commence in July with undergraduate courses on commerce and management studies. The post-graduation courses will include masters in English, mass communication, commerce and social work.
 
 “The UG students will be selected on merit basis. In case of PG, we will hold admission tests,” said Father Felix Raj. The university authorities are in the process of finalizing the fee structure for all the courses.
 
 In its next session, the university will introduce courses in BA in mass communication, MA in multimedia and animation, MA in economics and MEd.
 
 The formal inauguration of the university will be on July 8. “I have invited chief minister   and hope she will join us. We could not have achieved all this without her support and help,” said Father Felix Raj.
 
 All the Jesuit colleges in state will come under the university’s fold. “This will be done after three years when the university is on its feet,” said the V-C.
 
 The university also plans to introduce vocational courses. “We plan to start a community college where we will offer vocational courses to residents of villages situated around the campus. This will help them gain expertise which will enhance their employment skills,” Father Felix added.
 
 
