VARANASI: A big banner hanging near the office of   in Gulab Bagh had indicated that resentment is brewing in   here over ticket distribution for Assembly elections particularly in Varanasi Cantt Assembly constituency. The banner was removed after it went viral on  .

 Some BJP supporter wanted to convey ‘Maan Ki Baat’ to the PM questioning the candidature of Saurabh Srivastava, son of sitting MLA Jyotsana Srivastava and former minister late Harishchandra Srivastava. The Srivastava family represented the seat for six times. 
 
 Bearing the image of the PM in the middle and BJP’s symbol (lotus) on both ends the banner read, “I am a voter of Cantt assembly constituency. I am forlorn and helpless. I have been tolerating Jyotsana Srivastava and late Harishchandra Srivastava for last 27 years. In the coming days, I have to tolerate their son Saurabh Srivastava until he grows old like his mother. Would I have to tolerate the sons of Saurabh also? 
 
 The banner further read: Is it our destiny to tolerate a tainted person? Are we bound to tolerate a person, whose behaviour was not good with the party workers? Could the family ruling the constituency for 27 years point out a single achievement? Are the BJP voters and workers really helpless to tolerate this family?
 
 BJP state president Keshav Prasad Maurya, who was in the city on Friday, said that those who are levelling baseless charges are not the ‘asli karyakarta’ (real workers) of the party. 
 
 Soon after the announcement of BJP candidates, dissatisfaction surfaced in the city. Seven-time winner in a row Shyamdeo Roy Chaudhury was denied ticket from Varanasi South constituency. The first time contestant Saurabh has been fielded in place of his mother from Varanasi Cantt. The party has fielded a young and new face Neel Kanth Tiwari by dropping Roy Chaudhry, who was in a state of surprise and shock as the party did not speak a word from the party before his replacement. His dissatisfaction could be understood with his reaction when he said, “I did not have any communication from party to know why I was dropped. If it has been done on the basis of age, the party had already fielded many candidates who are older than me.”
 
