HYDERABAD: Fasting during   for   and it will not affect the weight of the baby .But pregnant women, who choose to fast, should take certain precautions to   pleasant.

 Fasting will also not lead to premature delivery , according to health experts.
 
 With the Muslim fasting month of Ramzan round the corner, doctors suggest that pregnant women can fast safely. They should, however, consult their physician before proceeding for fasting.
 
 There have been quite a few research studies on pregnant women preferring to fast during Ramzan. They did not find any adverse impact on the baby's weight.
 
 Islam exempts pregnant women and lactating mothers from fasting during the month of Ramzan. But many of them prefer to fast for spiritual reasons. This has created scientific interest among researchers worldwide to find out whether pregnant women, who observe intermittent or Ramzan fasting, deliver low-weight babies.
 
 Research was also conducted to know if observance of fast could lead to premature delivery.
 
 “Healthy Muslim women considering becoming pregnant prior to or during Ramzan can be advised that fasting does not seem to have a detrimental effect on the size (weight) of their baby and it appears not to increase the likelihood of giving birth pre maturely ," said a team of researchers from the University of Birmingham and the University of Leeds, UK.
 
 The study was published in the recent issue of the Journal of Epidemiology and Community Health.
 
 Commenting on the study ,  , expert in internal medicine at Apollo Hospitals, Secunderabad, said fasting by pregnant women will not affect the weight of the baby .
 
 “There is no major change in the calorie intake by pregnant women, who fast, and those who do not. Only the timing of meal differs. Hence, fasting women will not be affected. There is also no impact on their babies," Dr Aftab Ahmad said, suggesting that pregnant women should consult their doctors for expert medical advice and evaluation of their health.
 
 Pregnant women should check with their doctor if they suffer from gestational diabetes (GD). If they are diagnosed for GD and blood sugar levels are uncontrollable, then it is not advisable for pregnant women to take up fasting, he said.
 
 Those in the early stages of pregnancy normally do not run the risk of gestational diabetes.
 
 As part of the study , the UK team scanned through the maternity records. The team considered mothers as “exposed if they were Muslim and Ramzan overlapped with their infant conception date.
 
 Infants were included as exposed if their estimated conception date was in the first 21 days of Ramzan or seven days prior to the beginning of the month of fasting.“
 
 After comparing the records of fasting women and non-fasting women, the team concluded that there was no significant difference in the outcome of their pregnancy .
 
