HYDERABAD: While the police's sincere attempt at weeding the drug menace out of Hyderabad has received much applause from all quarters, the methods adopted by them to achieve it, clearly hasn't. The men in uniform's recent controversial act of arresting young professionals, for allegedly smoking weed inside their rented accommodation, particularly , drew much flak from all ­ be it experts dealing with drug addiction or the common man on the street.
Their unanimous verdict: Too harsh and unwarranted.Their fear: Alarming rise in cases of depression, social ostracisation and even suicides.
 
 Speaking to TOI from Mumbai, Dr Harish Shetty a social psychiatrist of repute, said: “Their actions amount to nothing but public posturing. Even they (the police) know that they can never nab the real goons who have been fuelling the drug market. So, to divert attention and satisfy their own egos the cops are doing what they are doing.“ Refer ring to young drug users as “victims“ he said that the motive of the police, or any of the other multiple agencies that deal with narcotics, shouldn't be to go after them and instead concentrate on the bigger “mafia“.
 
 “A similar thing has been happening in Mumbai and it is unfortunate. It has significantly pushed the count of suicide depression cases northwards,“ said Dr Shetty who has publicly lashed out at the police for taking such measures, through his writings.
 
 Reports carried in international publications over the last few years hint at a similar crisis the world over. Of those committing minor offences being left damaged and destroyed for life, courtesy strict police action, even as major offenders go scot-free.
 
 “While nobody should encourage drug abuseaddiction, it is important that the law-keepers of society behave more responsibly . They must realise that any wrong step by them can leave young people scarred forever. It can finish careers and end lives,“ said an independent addiction expert from the city . That there can be longstanding legal implications, including imprisonment in some cases, is another story .
 
 “I am extremely cynical about the Indian policing system. So I am not surprised by their actions as I do not expect them to behave any differently .I am instead worried that their methods are self-defeating,“ said L Ravichander, senior advocate,  . While strictly upholding the need to address the issue of drug abuseconsumption he said that the police should not go around town painting a certain image of those suspected of addiction. “If you find them guilty prosecute them, but don't indulge in creating images bout them. Because if they are ultimately acquitted, what can you do to correct their reputation that you've already sullied,“ he questioned.
 
