BELAGAVI: After the prohibition of vehicular movement on state highway-30 that passes through the heart of   in the Anmod and Pali Ghat protected area was reduced from 12 hours to nine hours, the forest department has decided to reinstate the 12-hour prohibitory ban on vehicular movement in the forest area. Traffic movement within the protected area is prohibited from 6pm to 6am, but was reduced to 9pm to 6am. But, following stiff opposition from environmentalists, the decision was rolled and the 12-hour restriction on vehicular movement was reinstated.

 Documents available with TOI indicate that the 12-hour ban on traffic movement in the wooded area was reduced following orders from the minister for medium and large-scale industries RV Deshpande. The chief conservator of forests, Belagavi (CCF)   and director, conservator Anashi-Dandeli Tiger Reserve did not seek permission from the Belagavi deputy commissioner before altering the restrictions on vehicular movement. A forest department officer, on condition of anonymity, told TOI that there have been no incidents of local people being harassed owing to these restrictions on vehicular movement. 
 
 Professor  , a noted zoologist in Belagavi, highlighted the perils of increased traffic movement in the forest. “It could prove fatal for most animals. Barring the big cats, most animals move around the forest in search of food after dusk. While the carnivores take three to four hours to hunt their prey, the herbivores use this time to approach the nearby water source,” he added.
 
 Deputy conservator of forests BV Patil told TOI, “The decision to reduce the duration of the traffic ban was taken based on the recommendation of the minister Deshpande, who wanted to ensure uniformity of movement in both Belagavi and   districts. However, it will not be implemented since these are crucial hours for animals.”
 
 Deshpande told TOI that these restrictions should not be a source of trouble for the local people, who live close to the forests. “Traffic movement should be allowed to travel in cases of emergency. I have instructed officials to bar movement of heavy vehicles,” he added.
 
