BHOPAL: Maulana Azad National Institute of Technology ( ) seem to have become synonymous to controversies. After the recent liquor party on its campus in which a student had drowned, the institute’s security officer RK   has now received a threat letter in Hindi along with a live cartridge, asking him to resign, failing which he would have to “face dire consequences”.

  police station registered a case under section 507 of the IPC (criminal intimidation by an anonymous communication) on Friday. Police have launched an investigation in this regard. Salve told TOI that he had received the threat letter through Speed Post on Friday noon. “I was shocked when I saw a bullet and a cotton piece in the letter. I was asked to resign from all posts that I hold in MANIT. It was clearly mentioned in the letter that if I fail to follow their instructions in a week they will kill me. I was also warned to not involve police in the issue.”
 
 TOI possesses a copy of the threat letter and photographs of the live cartridge. Salve later lodged a complaint with the police in this regard. He claimed that a few people were after him ever since he took the charge as security officer of the MANIT. “Being security officer I have several responsibilities. Few people in MANIT might not have liked my strict discipline and working style,” he claimed. 
 
 Incidentally, Speed Post was bearing the name of one Govind Kumar of Karond along with his smobile number. When contacted, Kamla Nagar police station SHO Ashish Bhattacharya confirmed receiving the complaint from Salve. He said police have launched investigations to nab the culprits. “We will contact the post office from where the Speed Post was sent. We will contact telecom service providers to trace the mobile number given on the Speed Post envelope.”
 
 Night outs and parties, especially involving outsiders, are common on the MANIT campus. The unscrupulous elements are aided by poor security and pitch dark campus. After the death of a final year student due to drowning in a pond some time back, the institute administration has initiated tough measures, including a ban on late night parties and vehicles on campus. Still, the measures seem to have failed to rein in unscrupulous students and their accomplices. The official portal of MANIT claims entry is restricted for unauthorised people. The college also says guards are deployed at all key points like hostels, residential areas, institute building, banks, post office, temple, dispensary and playfields, but all these measures appear to have failed to achieve the desired results for MANIT.
 
