JAIPUR: After faring well in recently conducted   survey for its cleanliness, authorities of North Western Railways(NWR) have geared up to secure No 1 slot by improving the rankings of other railway stations.

 The upbeat NWR authorities have planned to spend Rs 15 crore in current financial year. Not only NWR will intensify awareness campaign for passengers, but also will launch some campaign to   making railway stations filthy. 
 
 Jaipur railway station was ranked No 8 in the country in ‘A1’ category of railway stations under recently released Swach Bharat –Sawach Rail survey. 
 
 “We are happy not only for Jaipur but also for railway station like Ajmer which was placed at No 17. The kind of passengers come to Ajmer are totally different from what we receive in a station like Sikandarabad. Despite our constant effort towards improving our stations’ look and ensure they look clean 24X7,” said Tarun Jain, chief public relations officer (CPRO). 
 
 “In the coming days, we are planning to organise more awareness camps on cleanliness to facilitate passengers. Likewise, we are also planning to start penalising passengers who litter station premises deliberately or ignorantly,” Jain added. 
 
 Officials said 67 trains of NWR have facilities of onboard housekeeping service and ‘clean my coach’. “We have also set up 10 garbage collection and disposal units in Ajmer and Udaipur stations under Ajmer division, Bikaner, Lalgarh, Bhiwani and Sriganganagar stations under Bikaner division, Jaipru railway station of Jaipur division and Jodhpur, Barmer and Medta Road stations under Jodhpur division,” said a senior railway officer. 
 
 Likewise, Jaipur railway station also has mechanised laundry with a capacity of cleaning 7 tonnes of linen while Bikaner’s laundry can clean up to 4 tonnes.
 
 “In order to ensure the tracks remain clean, we have set up 2,325 bio toilets in 744 coaches in various trains,” the officer added. 
 
 The three rail blocks including Barmer-Munabao, Peepad Road — Bilara and Sadulpur-Hanumangarh have been developed as green corridor. 
 
