Trichy: The district administration has planned to implement traffic diversions between Number-one toll gate, Thiruvanaikoil and Chathiram bus stand to facilitate completion of the Periyar Nagar road overbridge near Srirangam, from Monday. With works nearing 10 per cent completion, the highways department expects to complete construction works by March 2018.

 With the penultimate phase of construction works planned on the Chennai stretch of the RoB, as per the requests of Highways Department, the district administration has planned to implement traffic diversions.
 
 All private and government city buses from Chathiram to Srirangam will be diverted via Odathurai bridge, Oyamari road, Thiruvanaikaval junction and reach Srirangam bus stand via Gandhi road. Similarly, the buses after disembarking the commuters would reach back Chathiram bus stand via Mambalasalai and Cauvery bridge. 
 
 Buses from Chathiram bus stand plying to Manachanallur, Lalgudi, and Samayapuram would commute via Odathurai bridge, Oyamari road, New Kollidam bridge and Number one toll gate. Similarly, the buses on their return to Chathiram bus stand would proceed to the terminus via Thiruvanaikaval junction, Mambalasalai, and Cauvery bridge. 
 
 The same to and from route applies for the buses proceeding to Thuraiyur, Ariyalur, Perambalur, and Chennai. An official release from the district administration said that the traffic diversion would be applicable until the construction work on the RoB is completed.
 
 Earlier, the State government had given in-principal approval for the project in February 2, 2011, and subsequently in March, 2014, a sum of Rs 47.3 crore was sanctioned for establishing a four-lane RoB at Periyar Nagar to replace the narrow two-lane bridge (dismantled) that was causing frequent traffic snarls for visitors to Srirangam island. 
 
 The construction works commenced on July 4, 2016 and the highways department officials added that as of September end, about 70 per cent of the construction works pertaining to the work scope of highways department has been accomplished. 
 
 Since as many as six decks are to be placed over the pillars erected on Chennai bypass road portion of the new RoB, and retaining walls at a distance of 100m on the Trichy and Chennai sections, the highways department has sought traffic diversions to be made around the facility for at least three months.
 
 
