Chandigarh: A copy of this month’s   of   (PU) was 2,413 pages long, beating novels like “A Suitable Boy” by Vikram Seth and “War and Peace” by Leo Tolstoy in page count and leading to an expenditure of around Rs 3 lakh in printing for a cash-strapped varsity.

 According to sources, approximately Rs 2,500 is spent on printing and binding an agenda copy. Around 120 copies are printed, including 91 for senate members, officers and mediapersons.
 
 Senators recall that the agenda was the lengthiest in recent years. The September 10 meeting was also not long enough to discuss all the agenda items. It started on this note: this agenda is too long, we should do something about it, former vice-chancellor professor R P Bambah pointing out. In fact, Dr Amar Singh, IAS (retd), advisor in Punjab government and nominated senate member, also pointed out that a university like PU, which is a pioneer in many fields, should do away with such lengthy agenda, which is ultimately paper wastage, and go for digitization.
 
 PU registrar Col G S Chadha (retd) said, “The agenda was already digitized. This time also, the agenda was digitized and sent to all through email. However, there were members who had told us that they need hard copies. The complete process to provide the senate members with laptops and tablets has to be undertaken. The procurement will take time, we have to get it approved from the competent authority, prepare budget estimates. However, we will come up with a solution by December.”
 
 Chadha agreed that PU will save money if the senate members agree to access the agenda online. “We will save money on the printing cost and there is no doubt about it. It will save us transportation as well. This is what I had wanted when I said this one-and-a-half year back. That is why, we have been able to get it digitized. All the information is available in digitized mode and I can give it to them in a pen drive but then senate members have to build a consensus. If they confirm how many of them want hard copy, how many want soft copy, we will provide them. Even if they want the entire thing in soft copy and portions in hard copy, I can provide them with that too,” added Chadha.
 
 Senate members, however, remain divided. “I want to have hard copy of the agenda because I have to make observations and I read it properly. However, there are people who don’t care to even open the agenda. So, PU can provide an option to provide the soft copy,” said senate member and Panjab University Teachers Association president Prof Rajesh Gill.
 
 Professor Gurmeet, another senate member, said in case of such big agenda, PU can provide it in parts rather than making a huge volume of it.
 
 BOX:
 
 ONCE UPON A TOME
 
 Longest novels | Number of pages
 
 War and peace | 1,440 (paperback)
 
 Poor Fellow My Country | 1,466 pages (hard cover)
 
 A Suitable Boy | 1,349
 
 Clarissa, or, The History of a Young Lady | 1,534 (in seven volumes)
 
 Men of Goodwill | 8,000 pages (27 volumes in original edition)
 
 Environmental damage?
 
 Experts said this much of paper needs cutting down of trees, which ultimately causes damage to the environment. Dr Ravindra Khaiwal, an environment expert at School for Public Health, PGI, said that use of more paper means cutting down of trees, which further means more carbon dioxide in the environment. Moreover, the process of making paper also releases certain pollutants in the air causing pollution. However, he said that there are sustainable ways to produce paper that can be followed.
 
 
