HYDERABAD: The 'business' of wheelchairs at the   has pushed patients into adopting different ways to deal with their ordeal. While 40-year-old Raju recently took to the tricycle to highlight his plight, 84-year-old  ,  , who has been visiting the state-run facility for the last five years, decided to take another route altogether. He bought himself a wheelchair.

 Tired of bribing ward boys to avail of a wheelchair each time he set foot inside the hospital, the retired   finally bought a wheelchair spending Rs 7,000 for his use. Now, the senior citizen suffering from partial paralysis is no longer at the mercy of the hospital staff. That a wheelchair is a basic amenity that should be made available for free to any patient requiring it is another story. Ramachary's wife, V R Jayamani, who was spotted waiting outside the emergency ward for her husband's turn on Monday, said, “My husband has to make at least two trips a month to the hospital for his treatment. Earlier, each time we came, the ward boys demanded anywhere between Rs 50 and Rs 100 as bribe to wheel him into the hospital. Since it wasn't possible for us to run around pleading with them for a wheelchair owing to our old age, we went ahead and finally bought one.“
 
 The 80-year-old woman con fessed that the decision to buy a personal wheelchair was only to fight the rampant corruption at the state hospital. “Either we had to pay the ward boys to get a wheelchair or deposit our mobile phone (or some other expensive belonging) with authorities to avail of the facility. It was ridiculous. I could not afford to give away my phone as I needed it inside the hospital to make calls,“ said Jayamani.
 
 Wheelchair apart, the retired professor even hired a personal attendant to avoid depending on ward boys. “He is partially paralysed and his wife is also very old. She can't push the wheelchair. I have been coming with the couple for the past few months so that I can assist him and also run errands ­ like bringing medicines and calling the doctor,“ said the attendant.
 
