LUCKNOW: Communist Party of India – Marxist on Friday claimed that the   would eventually succumb to its clarion call of ‘triple talaq’ in the ongoing Uttar Pradesh assembly elections. CPIM general secretary  , while speaking to reporters said, “The first talaq which the   and RSS got was in Delhi assembly elections, followed by the talaq in Bihar. And, the third talaq BJP and RSS would get in Uttar Pradesh.”

 He further stated that the Left Front is contesting from selected seats in UP, the seats where the Leftist movement had left some impact on the public. “Our aim is not to be a part of the government, but to ensure that the grievances of the common people and the downtrodden are raised in the Uttar Pradesh assembly, and accordingly the government frames its policies,” Yechury said.
 
 The political reasons for contesting the   is to defeat the communal forces. “We would work with secular forces wherever the BJP is strong. The BJP desperately wants to win the 2017 UP assembly elections especially for 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Hence, new problems have been forced upon the common man,” the CPIM general secretary said.
 
 Equating notebandi (demonetisation) with nasbandi (sterilisation), Yechury observed that crores of people especially the small traders, marginal farmers, daily wage labourers have been badly affected by this phenomenon. Country’s GDP has been hit, and a trend of reverse migration has started.
 
 “Despite all this, the BJP-led NDA government is preparing to present the Union Budget in the coming session of Parliament,” the senior CPI-M leader said, and said that in 2012, the ECI had asked the Centre not to present the Union Budget during the ongoing polls, and it was postponed till March 12. “It would have been appropriate if the Union Budget was presented after the assembly elections are over,” he said.
 
 Replying to a question, whether the Left Front would extend its support to the SP-Congress alliance after the elections, Yechury referred to it as ‘speculation’, and said that the UP voters have been giving a clear cut verdict for the past 2 elections, and it would continue.
 
 “The Left Front is not a part of the SP-Congress alliance. And, it was the pressure from the Left parties, which forced the Congress-led UPA-1 government to come up with pro-people projects such as RTI, MGNREGS, Right to Food and Forest Rights Act,” the CPIM general secretary said.
 
 On West Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee extending support to UP CM Akhilesh Yadav, Yechury said, “Secular forces are not homogeneous. Their commonality of interest lies in isolating the BJP, while their non-commonality lies in their policies. At present our aim is to bring all the Left parties under one umbrella.”
 
