BHOPAL: A day after protest at   in the state capital on Sunday, contractual teachers’ association on Monday continued their strike for second day. Members of the association say there is a growing resentment among teachers, owing an allegiance to the Samvarg Adhyapak Sangathan,for allegedly not conceding their demands.

 Teachers are demanding implementation of 7th pay commission, better school facilities and a better salary structure. On Monday, teachers in districts joined the state-wide strike.
 
 “The longer the government takes to react, our protests would intensify. We will not withdraw unless our demands are met. We had first raised our voice in 2006-2007. Still after 10 years, the government has not done anything constructive,” said teachers on strike.
 
 They alleged the government is promoting private schools and ignoring government schools.
 
 “We oppose quota under the RTE Act for underprivileged students as it is only promoting private schools and resulting in enrolment in our schools going down.”
 
 If we don’t have enough enrolment in schools, we will lose our jobs,” said Upendra Kaushal, a teacher and a member of the association. 
 
 On Monday, hundreds of protesters from   didn’t withdraw despite weather conditions.
 
 The teachers are planning to march toward   in Delhi on the Teacher’s Day on September 5.
 
 “We are planning a march to Jantar Mantar, if the deadlock continues. We want to associate ourselves with more than 50% of the government teacher’s population in   as we all have similar concerns,” said Jagdish Yadav, secretary, contractual teachers association.
 
 “We have same qualifications, but some earn 50,000 and some earn less. The procedure is not transparent. We want the people in Delhi to know about the injustice being done to pillars of this nation in Madhya Pradesh,” Yadav said. Every day till August 15, teachers from districts will oppose against the government’s “apathy” by staging a demonstration at Dussehra Maidan. When asked about the protest, directorate of Public instructions (DPI) joint director Dhirendra Chaturvedi said he was unaware of it.
 
 “I have no such information about the protest, but I will still look into the matter,” he told TOI.
 
 The longer the government takes to react, our protests would intensify. We will not withdraw unless our demands are met. We had first raised our voice in 2006-2007. Still after 10 years, the government has not done anything constructive.
 
