NEW DELHI: India's foreign affairs officials are "pessimistic" and "cynical" despite the 
  of last week's foreign secretary level talks, said a newspaper run by the Communist Party of China.

 "While most Chinese scholars and critics received the dialogue positively, believing it may thaw the atmosphere and propel the bilateral relations into a new era, their Indian counterparts turned out to be rather pessimistic-if not cynical, quoting the "unsolved" issues regarding India's NSG bid as well as the 
  on JeM chief Masood Azhar," said an Op-Ed today in the Global Times.
 
 The article also said that understanding this critical difference between the two emerging economic giants is the key to capturing the shifting dynamics between the two countries.
 
 Interestingly, last week, 
  disputes on terror from Pakistan and India getting Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG) membership are the reason frictions between China and India "are not bilateral but multilateral".
 
 "China and India both receive a large dividend from each other's economic development via optimizing their capital, entrepreneurship, and market and resources endowment," Global Times said, adding, "And, because of such rises, both China and India want to see the unipolar world order replaced by multipolarity, in which each of them can play a larger role and command an effective sphere of influence that is more proportional to their sizes."
 
 "If these two forces are pushing China and India together in an irresistible fashion, then what prevents them from pursuing such a strategic convergence in a more coordinated way?" it questioned. 
 
 "There are many misunderstandings. In India, it is not uncommon for the average people to believe that China has been fixated on containing and frustrating India. Also, issues with complicated nature or multilateral implications are often targeted and then singled out as proof for China's ill-intents against India,wrote Global Times.
 
 One lesson India may learn from China is be honest with oneself. Asymmetry in economic and geopolitical power is natural for any bilateral relations. China has rarely complained about taking a backseat in its relations with the US, as long as such pragmatism and entrepreneurship help it to catch up quickly. Rather, it was the idea of "G 2" that troubles Beijing, for such artificial parity brings self-complacence but nothing helpful to the cause. 
 
 As   scholar Daniel Markey insightfully notes "China's leaders simply do not wake up every morning thinking about South Asia." Acknowledging this asymmetry in a hard-headed pragmatism, rather than obsessing with the false parity, may better help India to achieve its emulation quickly. 
 
 It is in India's interest to rationalize the concerns over its disparity with China and embrace it as a helpful catalyst to closing the existing Sino-Indian gap. In this regard, lowering expectation and situating the bilateral ties in greater historical-strategic context certainly helps India to better tap any opportunities China brings to the table, like the Bangladesh-China-India-Myanmar (BCIM) economic corridor, the article said.
 
 On Thursday, foreign secretary Jaishankar and China's executive vice-minister for foreign affairs   met for the first strategic dialogue between the two countries since   became Prime Minister in 2014.
 
