KOLKATA: Five legislators from the non-BJP family in Bengal switched sides to vote for President-elect Ram Nath Kovind, pushing his tally from the expected six to 11, vindicating state BJP president Dilip Ghosh's claim that there was cross-voting in the election. 

 Another 10, supposed to vote for Opposition's presidential candidate Meira Kumar__she lost to Kovind__cancelled their ballots though she got the highest (273) support from Bengal, logging only 15 votes fewer than the estimated 288. In the state-wise tally, Karnataka came second to Bengal as 153 MLAs from there voted for Kumar. 
 
 BJP's Ghosh was visibly happy with Kovind's win: "This is an election between individuals. MLAs, who like Narendra Modi's good work crossed party lines to vote for Kovind and those who couldn't, cancelled their votes." Taking Kumar's defeat in the right spirit, Trinamool chief   sent her congratulations to Kovind well before the poll results were declared.
 
 Like in several states, cross-voting was apparent in Bengal as the ballots of legislators from each assembly were counted separately. But the procedure was not possible when it came to counting the votes of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha MPs as the Election Commission didn't go for state-wise counting of Parliament votes. However, the phenomenon can't be ruled out in Parliament, particularly when the ruling Trinamool didn't even approach two RS members, K D Singh and Kunal Ghosh.
 
 Trinamool RS leader Derek O'Brien claimed not to consider Ghosh in the Trinamool flock any more. "We have 12 members in Rajya Sabha, among whom one is a suspended MP. Of the 34 MPs in Lok Sabha, one ( ) couldn't vote on medical grounds. Others voted for Kumar. There has been cross-voting no doubt, but there are MPs from other parties in Bengal. I can vouch for my party MPs only," he said, hinting Congress and Left MPs might have crossed the floor. Even minister Partha Chatterjee ruled out cross-voting from Trinamool. 
 
 "We have 211 MLAs in Bengal and all voted for Kumar," Chatterjee said. But the seniors' assertion didn't do away with the suspicion of the "black sheep in the family" that made the rounds within the rank, as party organisers pointed fingers at disgruntled MPs and their loyalist MLAs who have "fallen from grace". 
 
 Opposition leader in state assembly Abdul Mannan also denied any floor-crossing by Congress MLAs. "Trinamool wanted to vanquish the Opposition in Bengal. Now, it is facing opposition from within. It is an open secret that a host of Trinamool MLAs is in touch with BJP," he said. Left leader in the assembly Sujan Chakrabarty saw "nothing surprising" in the alleged division within Trinamool. "Trinamool encouraged defection from other parties and now, it itself is facing defection," he said.
 
 
