
 
 KOLKATA: Lack of air-conditioning and parking space was no deterrent for last-minute shoppers on Sunday who picked   as their top destination. By 7pm, the city's oldest shopping destination received footfall of over 25,000, followed by Gariahat with 18,000 and Hatibagan at 13,000. The figures were corroborated by both   and the respective hawkers' associations.
 
 Special police arrangements had to be made at Humayun Place, Lindsay Street,and the crossing of SN Banerjee Road and Jawaharlal Nehru Road to control the crowd. However, despite the sea of shoppers, there has been an overall drop in sales by about 30% across markets and both store owners and hawkers blamed it on the GST.
 
 The boom in the number of shoppers at New Market was reflected in the sales figures of the KFC there. “The daily sales figure last month was approximately Rs 2,62,000, which has increased to Rs 3,33,000 this month,“ said Tanmay Acharya, manager. “The footfall is around 6,500 to 7,000 daily . The sa les are more this year compared to last year and we are happy ,“ said S Mallick, store manager of Citi Mart.
 
 Young shoppers l Young shoppers like Madhumita Barua of Bethune College said they found all the latest fashion trends in New Market at a much cheaper rate compared to malls.
 
 Shops and hawkers at Gariahat, however, said that though the market looked busy and the number of shoppers swelled, the figures did not necessarily convert into shopping. “My jewellery store is 20 years old and every year the business is more UR than average. This year, the prices have increased and the sales have dropped. There is a significant drop in footfall and I am taking in a loss of Rs 1,000 a day. I think it is the same with others too," said Mohammad Kareem. 
 
 At Hatibagan, the crowd comprised shoppers who were there for things sold only by hawkers. “The sales have been less than average this year, but we expected this because the salaries haven't come in yet. Puja being towards the end of the month, the middle-class buyers -our regular customers -are trying to save their bonus. Moreover, the young crowd of big spenders hardly do their main shopping here. So we usually depend upon the elderly," said Mohammad Kayamuddin, whose apparel store at Hatibagan is 30 years old.
 
