Madurai: The Madurai bench of the Madras high court on Monday expressed surprised after the state government failed to file a counter to the cases against appointment of law officers to subordinate courts in the southern districts. 

 “It is the government which is supposed to defend its appointments. But, it has so far not filed counters to the cases, on a few of which the court passed interim order staying the appointments. Then, how can the court decide to vacate the stay?,” asked the bench.
 
 The additional advocate general told the court that a case of similar nature is pending before the high court principal seat in Chennai and requested to transfer the cases pending before the bench to the principal seat. Following it, the court adjourned the case to Tuesday. 
 
 It may be recalled that the state’s additional chief secretary on various dates passed government orders (GOs) appointing law officers – public prosecutors and government pleaders, to the subordinate courts in several districts and also terminating many law officers who were representing the government in the past. 
 
 Stating that no mandatory procedure prescribed under the criminal procedure code (CrPC) in appointing law officers was followed, a batch of eight petitions from seven districts – Madurai, Trichy, Karur, Tuticorin, Tirunelveli, Pudukottai and Kanyakumari came to be filed before the high court bench. Two different division benches headed by justice T S Sivagnanam and justice A Selvam heard the same and found prima facie in the cases, which resulted in staying government orders relating to law officers to the five districts, except Madurai and Trichy. 
 
 The division bench had said that the interim order staying the operation of GOs appointing public prosecutors and government pleaders shall continue until further orders. However, the interim order would not give any right to the disengaged law officers to function either as public prosecutors or government pleaders before the subordinate courts, the court had said.
 
 
