PANAJI: Senior  , on Sunday, said that although the country is progressing at a slow and steady pace, the   between the parties is turning acrimonious, which is harmful. 

 “The health of the country can be termed well on a macro level. Nobody expected India to survive in 1947, due to so much diversity. I believe we need that diversity. There are 40 political parties currently in the  . We need such diverse groups. But recently, the whole discourse is getting acrimonious,” Pilot shared while speaking as a panelist in the   forum, adding that such a loud and threatening dialogue between political oppositions is not a good sign. 
 
 The views were shared by former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir,  , who stated that dialogue is the only way for a lasting peace in the northern most state of India. 
 
 “We have to strengthen the unity and diversity within the country. Dialogue is necessary between India and Pakistan to have a permanent peace in Kashmir. Even today, 10 people died there. Terrorism is not just India’s problem, it is a global issue,” Abdullah said, adding that the younger generation has to join politics to bring in change in the political scenario. 
 
 “I would give four marks out of 10 to the politicians of the country. We all have to introspect why we are afraid of going into the public now,” Abdullah said. 
 
 Defending the demonetization move by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, BJP leader Shazia Ilmi said that the decision helped in moving the conversation from caste and creed politics to a discourse on division in the economic classes. 
 
 Former bureaucrat and current Rajya Sabha MP Pavan Varma, agreeing that the current political leaders are more interested in disagreeing than debating, lamented that majority of the current sessions has been wasted by due to regular adjournment.
 
 “We are weakening the foundation of the country by hurting the plurality. We can’t have a normal debate in the parliament and daily the session is getting adjourned. People are willing to assert their point of view but are not ready to listen,” Varma, who is a member of the Janta Dal (United), said. 
 
 Vice chancellor of the Goa University, Varun Sahni, while affirming that the core challenge for the country is corruption, said governance can be improved by reviving the institutions. 
 
 “India is an emerging power, and for us to take the global responsibilities, we need to revive our institutions. Other government institutions should learn from ISRO, which is successfully completing missions under stringent budgets.” 
 
