HYDERABAD: The   ( ) may have spent close to Rs 370 crore to clean the iconic  , but it has failed to improve the health of the dying lake. Locals complain that the stench from the water body is making it difficult for people to commute along the Tank Bund, visit the NTR Garden or venture anywhere close to Necklace Road.

 Onset of summer has added to the woes of people with the smell becoming more pronounced. “While the smell is usually the worst during May , this time the problem has started early due to abnormally high temperatures,“ said an expert.
 
 Another reason for the sharp stink is increase in Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD) in the water, experts said. While oxygen levels should be between 6 and 7 mg per litre of water, BOD should ideally be less than 3mg. In the case of the Hussain sagar, the variation is more than 50% on both counts.
 
 If that's not all, the fact that Sewage Treatment Plants run by the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board have not been able to treat industrial waste flowing into the lake from nalas is another serious cause for concern, environmentalists say .
 
 “This is not first time the lake is stinking. Authorities have not been able to find a perma nent solution to this problem,“ said G Vishnu Prasad a resident of Domalguda and a regular walker on Necklace Road.
 
 HMDA officials, while admitting to the problem, say that it has tied up with a Canadian company that has begun treating the water from March 25.“The treatment is being taken up by using a method to improve the oxygen levels in the water without using any chemicals.As a result the sediments are co ming to the surface. That is why the lake water has become green (with algae) and has a foul odour. The entire process will take between 45-90 days,“ HMDA metropolitan commissioner, T Chiranjeevulu, said.
 
 He added, “Since water stagnation is adding to the problem, the HMDA is releasing water downstream to clear the floating algae. Water samples collected from the lake indicated that oxygen levels are increa sing during afternoon.“
 
 Environmentalists are not amused. “Successive government have come up with exciting stories on cleaning Hussainsagar and have spent crores.TRS government also spoke about cleaning it. Unless the entire catchment is cleaned and untreated water is stopped from flowing in, there can be no permanent solution,“ said S Jeevananda Reddy , convenor, Forum for Sustainable Environment.
 
 
 
 
 While the intention of state authorities to clean the historic lake is commendable, it is important that they get to the root of the problem and not settle for some temporary, cosmetic makeover. Considering the significance of Hussainsagar Lake -which is almost synonymous with Hyderabad's identity -it is important that we do all we can to preserve whatever is left of it and ensure that it doesn't die a brutal death.
 
