Nagpur: A case of alleged purchase of overpriced 4-D Echo machine by the Super Specialty Hospital (SSH) attached to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) has come to fore. It is alleged that the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) bought the 4-D Echo machine for Rs1.5 crore, whereas it actually costs just Rs65 lakh. The allegation has been levelled by a former employee of the company that supplied the machine. The medical education secretary has launched an enquiry into the issue. GMCH has received a letter to give its opinion on the subject by the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER). Interestingly, the machine procured in December has been in controversy even before it is installed in the cardiology department at SSH. It is currently awaiting clearance from the PCPNDT committee. TOI had earlier reported about the machine on July 20, 2017. Sources say that an aggrieved employee of Philips, the company that supplied the machine, has complained to the medical education department about the overvaluation, following which an enquiry has been ordered. The enquiry is, surprisingly, headed by state purchase committee chief Pravin Dixit! GMCH dean Dr A Niswade admitted that a copy of the letter from DMER has been received by him. But he refused to divulge any more details on the subject. However, DMER Dr Pravin Shingare said he was unaware of such a letter being issued by his office. “I am not aware of having signed such a letter. But if such a letter has been issued to GMCH from my office, it must be as per the procedure. The user in any equipment purchase is expected to sign a document that the equipment cost is parallel to the market price and as per the specifications demanded before the equipment is actually purchased. Hence the letter must have gone to GMCH,” said Dr Shingare. He said that every equipment is purchased through a set procedure of bidding. Here too, the procedure was followed. Shingare told TOI to speak to Dr Suresh Barpande, a purchase committee official from DMER. However, Barpande declined to comment on the subject until the enquiry headed by Dixit is completed. But he did admit that such an enquiry was underway. The equipment has been purchased from special funds sanctioned by the District Planning Committee. It was to be become functional in a few days, but this schedule now seems to have gone for a toss. However, a private cardiologist told TOI that such a machine with good specifications does cost around Rs1.3 crore to Rs1.5 crore.