TRICHY: During the  , it is a custom for families to send to their   the `Pongal Seer' which basically means all items needed for observing the harvest festival. As time passed, this practice has waned among the urban folk. However, those in rural   have been keeping the tradition alive mainly by sending money via postal order to their sons-in-law expressing their love and respect.

 A senior official of Trichy head post office said there has been a big leap in money order transactions in the region in the past few days. “From January 7 to 12, we have delivered around 4,500 in Mayiladuthurai, 5,000 in Thanjavur, 3,500 in Nagapattinam and 6,000 in Pattukottai which is two-and-a-half times more than on normal days,“ he said.
 
 However, this was not the However, this was not the case in towns like Trichy city.Very few sent money orders to their daughters married to youths in rural areas even as outskirts like Manapparai, Thuraiyur and Lalgudi have witnessed a surge in MOs, he added. “Till today , I have also been receiving this `Varusa Panam' (yearly money) from my father-in-law, a resident of Mayiladuthurai. He used to send just Rs 100 every year.Though it is a meagre amount, it expressed his love“, said the official. “ Nowadays, the number of MOs have indeed gone down though we are delivering more money orders than on normal days“, he added.
 
 Tradition has it that the fathers send Pongal Seer containing banana bunch, edible sugarcane, turmeric, coconut and cash to their daughters.“However, over the course of time, sending pongal gift started to decline. Instead of sending the gift, they started to send money equal to the gift,“ said K Marimuthu, 65, of Kadamankudi near Thirukkatuppalli in Thanjavur.
 
 “My father-in-law sent pongal gift to me till his death at the age of 75. After his demise, his son used to send some money through money order.Now I am following this practice towards my daughter.Since we have no produce to send her, I prefer to send some money as a token of love and following tradition, “ he said.
 
 Thai Pongal is one of the most important festivals celebrated over four days in appreciation of the Sun God who provides the energy for agriculture. Part of the celebration is boiling of the first rice of the season consecrated to the sun. Newly-harvested grains are cooked for the first time on that day . Compared to Diwali or Christmas, Pongal is still untouched by commercialisation.
 
