NEW DELHI: India failed to win a medal at the   on Thursday, but shooter   gave enough indication that skeet has the potential to be one of the major events in Indian   in the future with an impressive performance at the Karni Singh Shooting Ranges.

 Sheikh made it to the final in men's skeet beating former world champion   in shoot-off in the qualifiers but missed four targets in 20 shots to finish last in the six-man final. It was Sheeraz's maiden appearance in a World Cup final.
 
 Riccardo Filippelli of Italy, a former World Cup winner and Eurpean Champion, came up with a near perfect performance to claim the gold. His compatriot and Rio Olympic champion Gabriele Rossetti took the silver while the bronze went to   of Australia.
 
 In the qualification, there was three-way tie for last two slots in the final after Sheikh, Denmark's Jesper and Finland's Timo Laitinen finished with 121each. Sheikh and Laitinen advanced after the shoot-off.
 
 The 26-year-old Indian's performance augurs well for India, whose skeet coach, the legendary Ennio Falco, believes that the country is heading in the right direction and could end up winning a medal in skeet in this year's World Championship. Indian skeet shooters were considered rank outsiders in the sport just two years back.
 
 “I am happy with the progress but I am here for wins. Today we needed more experience in the final,” Falco said referring to Sheeraz's lack of experience in playing finals. “Last year our skeet shooters qualified for three finals. This had never happened in Indian skeet. This World Cup, we have another shooter in the final. We are improving. Our goal is the World Championship in Moscow in September. The entire team performed well, but we have to improve. We have another four months to train together for the World Championships,” said Falco, who won the skeet gold at the 1996 Atlanta Olympic Games.
 
 Sheeraz, who played for Uttar Pradesh as a leg-spinner in U-16 cricket, said he would be going to Italy later this month for a three weeks' training. “We are working very hard on the technique. We hope to get better with every competition.”
 
  (score 119) and Angad Vir Singh Bajwa (116) were the other two shooters in fray. India finished the campaign in the World Cup with five medals - one gold, two silver and two bronze. They finished fifth in the medals tally. China topped the table with 12 medals - six gold and six silver.
 
