BHOPAL: After reports of the death of an elderly gas-victim allegedly due to negligence, the   appointed monitoring committee overseeing medical rehabilitation of   summoned the superintendent of  ,   and   on Saturday.

 Activists claim the patient died due to negligence and lack of specialists in government hospitals.
 
 The patient, Zahira Begum, was suffering from kidney-related ailment. She was undergoing treatment at an outreach unit of Bhopal Memorial Hospital and Research Centre (BMHRC). On May 22, she was referred to main BMHRC at Karond. BMHRC does not have a nephrologist and she was referred to the state-run Kamla Nehru Gas Rahat hospital. 
 
 When the patient arrived at Kamla Nehru hospital, some 10 kms away, she was told that the hospital too does not have a nephrologist. The patient was then shifted to nearby Hamidia hospital, where her relatives claimed she lay unattended for about 10 hours.
 
 The patient’s son Mujahid was asked to shift his ailing mother to a private hospital. She died the next day. The family spend about Rs 50,000 in the private hospital. She died in the private hosptial on May 23. 
 
 The issue came up during the meeting of the Supreme   appointed monitoring committee headed by chairman Justice VK Agarwal. “Prima-facie it is a case of negligence on part of the three hospitals. The gas victim died due to lack of coordination between the hospitals and non-availability of specialist doctors,” said committee member, Purnendu Shukla. 
 
 “BMHRC doctors should have known that Kamla Nehru is not well equipped and did not have a nephrologist. Patients life could have been saved if proper care was given in time,” said gas activist, Abdul Jabbar.
 
 Last week, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) director general and Union department of health research (DHR) secretary Dr Soumya Swaminathan had cited the need for better coordination between DHR-run BMHRC and MP government run-Gas Rahat hospitals. She was speaking on the sidelines of SC appointed advisory committee meeting held in Bhopal. 
 
 The committee had suggested daily meetings via video-conferencing for better coordination between the various hospitals to improve patient care. 
 
 The decision was taken after a meeting with MP department of health and family welfare principal secretary Gauri Singh and DHR officials. Gas Rahat has 11 hospitals whereas BMHRC apart from its main campus at Karond, has 8-outreach units.
 
