LUCKNOW: At a time when   in western  , hit by demonetisation, missed the   and were considering to quit farming, the fact that the state has surged past even   to become the country’s top   producer might restore their confidence.

 Maharashtra, which was so far the largest sugar producer, is struggling with around 40 lakh tonne from the earlier 110 lakh tonne a year because the water table sank alarmingly leading to drought like conditions. Majority of the sugar mills are shut and distressed and indebted cane-growers are reportedly facing near starvation.
 
 The highest ever   estimation was revealed by a state delegation at a high-level meeting called by the Centre in Delhi two days ago to assess sugar production in the country. UP’s figures of around 80 lakh tonne surprised the Centre and representatives of other cane growing states as with this the state is all set to record the highest ever sugar production.
 
 Talking to ToI, secretary general of UP Sugar Mills Association, Deepak Guptara said that the farmers deserve special mention for introducing varietal changes in the crop and researchers for the new high yielding crops, while the state government played a key role in implementation of the plans and programmes which resulted in another feather to UP’s cap. He, however, added that the climatic changes in Maharashtra were also a factor in sharp decline in sugar production in that state. 
 
 With the highest sugar production in UP this year, to be declared officially by March end, the sugar industry is all set for a revolution as cane and related activities are to get a boost and its benefits are to be harvested by the farmers, mainly nearly 35 lakh sugarcane growers.
 
 The record production of sugar will not only stabilise the price of the product in the market, but would also result in timely payments to cane-growers, even as sugar mills would profit from selling more. In the previous cane year, the state had produced 68.55 lakh tonne. Guptara shared, “We are selling the sugar substantially in sugar deficient states this time.”
 
 The record production in sugar is linked to increase of sugar recovery in sugarcane from around 9 per cent till last year to more than 10 per cent this year. It also got a push with growth in productivity from 59 tonne per hectare to 67 tonne per hectare. Moreover, the government has been able to overcome the barrier of transfer of hybrid and high quality seeds of sugar from lab to land.
 
 The government is confident that a record sugar production will not only invite more investment in sugar mills’ expansion and modernization programmes, but also restore the faith of cane-growers in cane cultivation.
 
 
