HYDERABAD: The number of students seeking passports to go abroad for   or employment in   has dipped drastically in   state, if the official data is any indication.

 Closure of fake universities by the US authorities and caution by the   (MEA), Government of India, is said to be the reason for the decline in the number of students seeking passports from the state. The tightening of rules by immigration authoriteis is also one of the reasons.
 
 The MEA has stepped in after a number of students from India were stopped by US authorities at airports. The mushrooming of fake universities in the USA and other countries has also put the Indian government on an alert. Thanks to awareness many students have decided to stay back and pursue higher education in India.
 
 “The MEA is not imposing restrictions on students to pursue higher studies in foreign countries. But, students should verify the credentials of the university concerned before deciding to join it. The MEA is on the job to short list fake universities in the USA, Canada, the UK, Australia and other countries with the assistance of Indian embassies there. Once the list is ready, details of these fake universities will be uploaded on MEA portal. This will help students to identify fake universities,“ Regional Passport Officer, Hyderabad, E Vishnu Vardhan Reddy, told TOI.
 
 The number students seeking passports in Telangana has come down. In 2015 the passport office received 1,39,859 applications from Telangana. But in 2016 there was a slight decline in the number of passport applications. It came down to 1,20,057. So far this year we received 69,033 applications from students, he said.
 
 The MEA has liberalised the norms for obtaining passports. The applicant has to apply through online by visiting the MEA portal. Later, he should visit either the passport seva kendra (PSK) located in the city or the recently opened post office passport seva kendra (POPSK) to submit the required documents and obtain the passport. For normal passports, it will take a fortnight. Tatkal passports are issued within a couple of day of submitting the application, he added.
 
 In fact, the MEA is also organising outreach programmes to educate not only students but also people, who want to work in UAE and other Gulf countries. To facilitate this, the MEA has launched, e-Migrate portal.
 
