Nothing says love like a bouquet of long-stemmed red roses. And around Valentine’s Day, they become an irreplaceable symbol of love. The day marks the annual high point of red rose sales and traders at the Ghazipur  , who supply flowers to all of NCR, tell us that from February 12 to February 14,   will have spent Rs 5-6 crore on these flowers. This is not taking into account the sale of roses of other colours. While on any other day, a red rose in the retail market can cost you about Rs 20, the prices see a tenfold surge around February 14. But nobody shys away from spending from Rs 200 to even Rs 2,100 (yes, you read that right!) for a single red rose to celebrate love. And even in the phool mandi, the best flowers are sent to Gurgaon.

  
  The   phool mandi packed with red roses a day before Valentine’s Day (BCCL)
 
 
  
 Vendors tell us that on Valentine’s Day, people don’t mind shelling even Rs 200-300 on a rose. Prem Kumar, a florist, says, "Zyada mehenge or achhe wale phool Gurgaon aur South Extension mein jate hain. Gurgaon mein agar koi Rs 300 ka bhi phool beche, tab bhi log lenge."
 
  Balram Kumar, another florist, says, "In Gurgaon, people don’t mind buying expensive varieties of roses. In fact, vendors in Gurgaon sell flowers at a higher rate than in Delhi. The rates are fixed according to the demand and depending on the variety, even a single rose can be sold for Rs 2,100!” 
 
  Sunil Sharma, a florist said, "As compared to Delhi, Gurgaon has more flower shops and less street vendors. So, the vendors visiting the Ghazipur mandi prefer buying roses of better quality, and the best stock is kept for Gurgaon. Obviously, we charge accordingly, but the profit share of the retail vendors is more than ours. The same bunch of roses which is sold for Rs 400 in Delhi, can be sold for at least Rs 600 in Gurgaon."
 
  Amit Kumar Singh, a wholesaler in the market says, "We sold 2,000 bundles of red roses in a day.   from all over NCR visit this market. While Delhi florists buy roses of all qualities and rates, Gurgaon florists buy the more expensive quality. Wahan achhe quality ke, mehenge phool hi jaate hain."
 
 
  
  Delhi Fresh Face 2016 winners and students of  , Hemi and Raghav, went flower scouting for DT to the Ghazipur phool mandi (BCCL)
 
 
 
 We visited the Ghazipur phool mandi yesterday, and found the market packed with flowers of every colour imaginable. The traders told us that like every year, they are expecting the entire stock to be sold out. 
 
  Ache Lal, a wholesaler in the market, tells us that the sale of red roses starts to surge from February 12. "Saal ke baaki din, log gende ke phool zyada khareedte hain. Par iss time log roses hi lete hain. Humne do din mein 1,000 bundle beche hain red roses ke. Each bundle costs Rs 180-220, so that’s Rs 2 lakh worth of sales for me."
 
   , another wholesaler from the market, adds, "The demand for red roses doubles from February 12. We earn approximately Rs 4 lakh in these three days. Yahi toh time hota hai couples ke liye, aur hamara bhi fayda hota hai. Humne sirf aaj hi 1,000-1,500 red rose ke bundles beche hain."
 
  Narendra Talvar, a florist in the mandi, says, "Humare liye toh Rose Day Valentine’s Day hi hota hai. Even those who buy expensive gifts on this day, don’t give the gift without a red rose." There are about 50-odd vendors in the mandi who deal only in roses, supplying 'love' to not just NCR, but to neighbouring states too.
 
 
  
  (BCCL)
 
 
 During the Valentine's week, each vendor in the mandi sells around 1,500-2000 bundles of red roses each day. According to their estimate, red roses worth Rs 1.5-2 crore are sold each day in the mandi from Feb 12 to Feb 14. The vendors reach the market at 3 am and stay till 11 am. 
 
  Sher Singh Saini, a florist who has been in the business for 30 years, says, "There are different prices for red rose bundles also – starting from Rs 150 and going to Rs 300-400. During this time, an average red rose costs Rs 8 in the mandi and is sold in the retail market for about Rs 200. On regular days, the red rose bundles that we are selling for Rs 150 now, cost only Rs 100."
 
  Amit Mandal, a wholesaler in the mandi, says, "While we sell around 500 bundles on regular days, around V-Day, we well 1,000 bundles a day. If the demand is more, we also end up selling 2,000 bundles. Demand badhti hai toh hum bhi apne rates badha dete hain."
 
 
 
 
