HYDERABAD: Four days after the heart-breaking loss to England in the final of the 2017 World Cup, India skipper   touched home turf even as she was accorded a rapturous welcome at the  , here on Friday evening.

 But what was more heartening for the 34-year-old player was that chief minister   ended her 11-year-old struggle for the 'promised' land. As reported in these columns on Friday, Mithali had been promised a plot way back in 2005 but the cricketer was made to run pillar to post. Despite all attempts, she had failed to realise the promise as the successive governments didn't bother to make it good.
 
 On her way home from the airport, Mithali had called on the chief minister at his camp office. Chandrasekhar Rao, who has been benevolent towards sportspersons, immediately announced a cash award of Rs 1 crore and 600 square yards of land in   for Mithali. He also announced Rs 25 lakh for her coach RSR Murthy.
 
  "You have played wonderfully at the World Cup. We thought you will surely win the final too. Unfortunately, we lost by a slender margin. But your team performed well and the whole nation watched your performance. Even I watched the match. You have set a record by scoring the highest number of runs. You are the pride of Telangana and Hyderabad city. You should win several more victories in future. On behalf of the people in   and my own behalf I congratulate you. The government will stand by you,"   told Mithali.
 
 The CM felicitated Mithali and presented here a shawl. He also presented Murthy with a shawl and complimented him on shaping Mithali up into a fine cricketer.
 
 "It is for the first time that I have been driven to the CM's camp office from the airport. That in itself is a very happy feeling for me. He told me that he had watched the final and what was most amazing was that he knew all my world records and scores. That has given such a personal touch to his appreciation of my game," Mithali said on her meeting the CM.
 
 "Everyone at the camp office were so eager to meet me and hear about the matches. It was a thrilling feeling to be the cynosure of so many top officials of our state. All these years I used to play for my small band of well-wishers and family but now to see that my performances brings so much of joy to so many people is a humbling experience," she added.
 
 "I am overwhelmed with the kind of response I have got since coming to India. It is a wonderful feeling to be appreciated by one and all. I was a bit sad since we had lost by such a small margin but the enthusiasm and welcome we got it has overshadowed the pain and disappointment of the loss," Mithali said.
 
 Earlier, Mithali was accorded a warm welcome. All the Railways women cricketers, budding young players, senior cricketers and a host of Mithali's fans thronged the airport. "It was really tough for Mithali to get out of the airport. She was literally mobbed by the huge number of fans who turned up to welcome her," coach Murthy told ToI. "Mithali herself never expected the kind of welcome she got her. It was just heart-touching," he said.
 
 
 
 
 Meanwhile, the   (HCA) officials will meet on Saturday to plan a felicitation for Mithali. "I had met Mithali in Delhi and had promised to help her in whatever way we could. We are having the Apex Council meeting on Saturday and we will decide on the date for the felicitation. I will speak to Mithali and find out her availability and plan things according. She has done the country and state proud and as such she deserves a grand felicitation," said president G Vivekanand. 
 
 
