Coimbatore: As the teachers’ protest entered the seventh day, many school managements on Wednesday said they were finding it difficult to conduct exams due to the shortage of faculty to monitor the students.

 While high school and higher secondary teachers have been returning to duty, elementary and middle school teachers are yet to give up the protest.
 
 A corporation school headmaster, who did not wish to be named, said they were struggling to conduct exams as nearly 50% teachers of some classes were absent from work. “Without enough faculty members, it is difficult to monitor students appearing for the exam. Usually, teachers’ workload increases during the examination time and they are often required to spend more time at the school,” he added.
 
 School education department officials said the existing strength of teachers itself was less for them to conduct the exams. “The teacher strength in schools is based on the teacher-student ratio. We do not keep in mind the examination,” said the official. “For instance, the average strength of a class in a government school is 40-60. But, during examinations, only 20 students are allowed to sit in a classroom, provided the hall is not big,” the officer added.
 
 The chief educational officer of the district, T Ganeshamoorthy, said the students were split into batches and the exams were conducted in two sessions to ensure enough teachers are available to conduct the exams. “Since the exams are conducted in two sessions, we are able to manage it even though some teachers are participating in the protest. We had issued notices to the protesting teachers and they are in small numbers returning to duty,” Ganeshamoorthy said.
 
 While high and higher secondary schools are able to manage with teachers gradually returning to duty, elementary schools continue to face difficulties, as most schools have only two-three teachers. “Many schools, especially those in the rural areas, have just two-three teachers for 50-80 students. So, if a teacher is absent, managing students is difficult,” said a headmaster of a government school from Mettupalayam.
 
 
