NOIDA: Alarmed at the Rs 3,700 crore Ponzi scam orchestrated by Anubhav Mittal’s socialtrade.biz — which involved over six lakh investors — panic has gripped investors who have put their money in similar ‘pay per click’ plans of other companies. Some of these companies have suspended operations and are refunding investors, while others are asking investors to opt for bitcoin. 

  offered Rs 6 for every link advertised on its webpage, addsbook.com, on which a ‘publisher’ (client) clicked after creating an unique ID and password. The company said it has 60,000 investors in five payment slabs — Rs 5,750, Rs 11,500, Rs 28,750, Rs 57,500 and Rs 115,000. Under their ‘promotional and referral income’ feature, it also promised a publisher 5% of the license publishing fees for referring friends or relatives.
 
 “I have six IDs, one in my name, others in those of my family members and friends, and have invested over Rs 1 lakh,” said Vishu Choudhary, who was among 50-odd people who crowded Webwork’s office on Tuesday. He added, “I’ve come from East Delhi to get my refund. I hope I’ll get the money back.”
 
 Some publishers got aggressive. “Under the company’s referral scheme, I had attached 40 people to the company. Now, I’m liable for around Rs 1.5 lakh,” said Rahul. Others expressed dissatisfaction at being offered repayment in bitcoins, instead of bank transfer. Still others have filed complaints with local police, the special task force ( ) which is already probing the   case, and the state DGP.
 
 Ghaziabad resident Anil Kishore Jain said he had paid Rs 172,500 for three IDs — in his name, as well as those of his wife and daughter, and got another three family members to invest. “Till January 3, they partially paid up all six IDs. Then suddenly, payments stopped. Even the links to click on stopped arriving,” wrote Jain in an email to UP DGP Javeed Ahmed, SSP (STF) Amit Pathak and other police officials.
 
 “There are hundreds of similar companies. Will cops go after them all?” asked someone who had invested in both Socialtrade and Webwork. SSP (STF) Amit Pathak said since they are busy probing Socialtrade, complaints about other firms are being forwarded to district police. However, Gautam Budh Nagar SSP Dharmendra Yadav told TOI they are yet to receive any such complaint from STF.
 
 Webwork co-director Anubhav Garg told TOI over the phone they are refunding money to 1,700 publishers who applied for refund. “It’ll take time, as it’s not easy to refund everyone at one go. Thankfully, not everybody has asked for refund,” he said.
 
 Ghaziabad-based GoNext Solutions Private Limited, which offered Rs 5 per click, has also started refunding. Vikas Yadav, a representative, said they are refunding each publisher 50% of their investment, while simultaneously putting on hold their pay-per-click operation till March. 
 
 “There was an issue with our bank. We’ve started refunding 50% each to around 1,000 investors. Our plans will again be available after March,” he said.
 
 
