ALWAR: The   police headquarter has sought a report from   police about a video showing four Sikh sewadars being heckled, pushed and severely thrashed in Ajmer district’s   area.

 The Alwar police recorded the statements of the four victims - Nirmal Singh, Malkeet Singh,   and Harpal Singh about the event that took place a month ago in Ajmer when they had gone to collect donations for their gurudwara. The victims are residents of Khairthal village in Alwar and work as sewadars at a local gurudwara there.
 
 The victims told TOI that they had arrived in Chainpura area of Naseerabad village in Ajmer to collect grains for gurudwara’s langar (public meals). “Though I don’t remember the exact date, the incident took place around April 24. We were going from door-to-door when suddenly a few people first hurled expletives on us. Soon, a mob gathered around us; before we could understand what’s happening, we were being hackled, kicked and slapped by the mob,” said Nirmal Singh.
 
 He added that after a few minutes, a constable came and made them sit inside a police vehicle, but the mob dragged them out of the vehicle. “The police constable didn’t save us, instead he asked the violent mob to continue attacking us. He asked the mob to teach us ‘a lesson’ but warned them not to attack us on head,” Nirmal Singh told TOI.
 
 Kuldeep Singh, another victim, said that the constable stood aloof from the crowd under a tree and watched the mob thrashing him and his fellow companions. 
 
 “We begged them to leave us, but nobody paid heed to our cries. We were being attacked with sticks and shoes, people slapped us for no reason,” Kuldeep Singh told TOI.
 
 Harpal Singh, who was kicked in his stomach multiple times, was seen writing in pain on the ground as the angry mob kept kicking him. “We were being thrashed for about 30 minutes until another cop in civil dress arrived and took us away from the area,” he said.
 
 The victims said that they were taken to a police station where cops asked them to file an FIR but they declined as they were afraid. While the exact location and identity of the attackers are still not clear, the cops said the probe is on.
 
 The Alwar police told TOI that while the case is being investigated by Ajmer police, primary investigation suggests that a few months ago, a few sewadars had come to Chainpura to collect donations and left the town after duping a few residents, so when the four sewadars from Alwar arrived in the same town, the residents thought they too were involved in the scam and began   them.
 
