New Delhi: If you happen to meet an accident necessitating orthopaedic  , chances are high you may end up running from one hospital to another because most government   don’t have the basic equipment —  .

 It is crucial to safely operate on and fix fracture, dislocation and other common trauma injuries involving the spine, hip bone and vertebra among others.
 
 Lok Nayak Hospital, for example, has only one functional C-arm when it needs minimum of four such gadgets to handle orthopaedic injury cases.
 
 “We wrote to the administration in February asking for urgent purchase of three C-arms but nothing has happened,” Dr Ajay Gupta, professor and head, department of orthopaedics at the hospital, said.
 
 Sources at Guru Tegh Bahadur (GTB) Hospital, the biggest tertiary care hospital run by Delhi government in east Delhi, said they have two C-arms and both have been non-functional for nearly six months. “We have filed for the repair of existing ones and purchasing more C-arm machines,” a senior doctor said.
 
 C-arm is a machine which converts X-rays into a visible image. It helps a surgeon visualise structure not visible or discernible otherwise and to accurately place screws and other implants for fixing bone fragments, spine injury. But doctors at Lok Nayak say due to unavailability of this machine, costing anywhere between Rs 16 lakh to Rs 1 crore, at most state-run hospitals, patients with critical injuries are referred to them. “We get two to three such referrals from other hospitals daily. But we ourselves are short of the equipment,” said a doctor.
 
 On Tuesday, the Lok Nayak Hospital doctor added, a patient had to be operated on without the C-arm because the only machine available wasn’t working.
 
 “The woman in her 40s got her neck injured about a month ago. She kept lying like that until the pain aggravated. We had to put screws between C4 and C5 vertebrae to fix the dislocation caused by injury but the C-arm couldn’t do more X-rays suddenly. The procedure was carried out without visuals of the injury and screw position,” doctors, who did not want to be identified, said.
 
 Explaining risks involved in such a surgery, doctors said that C4 and C5 vertebrae lie between the spinal cord and vertebral artery. “We have to place a screw with 3.5 mm diameter in a gap of 4 mm. Any mistake can perforate the artery which is fatal or can injure the spinal cord leading to paralysis,” one of the doctors said.
 
 Dr Punita Mahajan, medical director of Ambedkar Hospital, also said they have two C-arm machines of which only one is functional. At  , the largest central government hospital, doctors say the number of C-arms isn’t enough to handle surgery cases where the gadget is required.
 
