pic inp common file name nfai/no credit

 caption: I&B) secretary Ajay Mittal assessing a   reel.
 
 Pune: In one of the largest film   projects undertaken anywhere in the world, around 1.32 lakh film   at the National Film Archive of India ( ) would be assessed and monitored through radio frequency identification (RFID) tagging with an aim to prolonging their life.
 
 Around one lakh film reels would be restored in the first phase, the total cost of which has been pegged at Rs 597.41 crore, said information and broadcasting (I&B) secretary Ajay Mittal. The assessment of the reels would be done in the first phase dubbed as Film Condition Assessment.
 
 Mittal inaugurated the first phase of National Film Heritage Mission on NFAI’s Kothrud premises on Saturday.
 
 “This is probably the largest film restoration project in the world, where so much time, money, and expertise is being invested for keeping our cultural heritage alive for future generations,” he pointed out.
 
 To get such a humongous project off the ground, the NFAI has teamed up with Hyderabad-based Prasad EFX, one of the foremost film restoration companies in the world.
 
 “Besides Indian talent, we will also seek the services of L’immagine Ritrovata, an Italian firm based in Bologna, which is immensely experienced in film restoration, and which has restored Indian classics like Satyajit Ray’s Apu Trilogy in the past. Their experts are scheduled to come here and supervise and advise us regarding various restoration techniques,” says Prakash Magdum, the director of NFAI.
 
 While there is no fixed timeline, the technicians, almost all of whom are very experienced, say that the whole process can be very time consuming, as is the case for a frame-by-frame restoration.
 
 “We will first look at the condition of the films using a pH scale, and then rate them according to their condition into three categories. Most of the reels we have gathered from the vaults are in category ‘C’, which means that they need extensive restoration. We have editors who will examine each and every frame of every reel, and splice out the frames which are damaged, or repair damaged perforations on the negatives, so that it runs through the projector smoothly,” said one of the technicians of Prasad EFX. The reels will be marked with RFID tags, to track their condition in future. Further restoration of these reels is expected in the second phase of the NFHM, according to officials.
 
 Magdum added that depending on the condition of certain reels, they can also be digitised. “We will of course try to maintain as many reels as possible. But if required, we will digitise some of the reels, depending on their condition and importance,” he said.
 
 The I&B secretary also inaugurated another project to restore and digitise non-filmic materials related to films, like stills, movie posters, song booklets, pamphlets, glass negatives, and old press clippings. The materials would be made available to the general public for research after they are digitised according to various tags, officials said.
 
 EOM
 
 
