KOLKATA: On Tuesday evening, model-turned-actor   was found hanging in her flat. 28-year-old Bitasta used to live in Abhishikta 1 apartment.

 On Tuesday, Bitasta's mother had come to visit her. But after she didn't receive any response from Bitasta, the neighbours were alerted. Finally, her body was retrieved after the door was broken. Bitasta used to stay alone in her flat. Incidentally, there was an apparent attempt at suicide. Cut marks on her wrist were also found.
 
 Bitasta is a new entrant to the Bengali film industry. She had acted in Debarati Gupta's "Kalkiyug". Describing her as production-friendly, Gupta said, "My assistant Pratik had got her for the audition. Bitasta had shared the screen with Debshankar Halder. In my film, she had played the role of an anchor. That released in August 2015. I had also done a music video with her. Later, I had also worked in a series of English short films for an eyewear major where I had cast her. I think, she had the looks for doing megaserials but wasn't keen on taking the television route to further her career."
 
 On October 21, 2016, she had made her film debut in Amitabha Pathak's "Banchha Elo Phire". In this film, Bitasta was cast in the role of a model. Actor Rajatava Dutta, who had played a promoter in the film, was shocked with the news of Bitasta's death. "While she had played a model, I had essayed the role of a lecherous promoter. During the shooting, she had come across as an introvert person."
 
 Dutta had last received a message from Bitasta after the premiere of this movie. "She had messaged me saying that she had liked my performance. I asked her if she was there at the premiere. She replied in the affirmative but added that she didn't meet me because there were too many people surrounding me. That itself proves that she was an introvert personality."
 
 Pathak, on his part, remembers her as an actress who had potential. "I am shocked with the news. She had a small role in my film and I had wanted to cast her in my next venture," Pathak said. "In a forthcoming film titled "Baghini", Bitasta will be seen in the role of a politician," said Pathak's assistant director Anirban Basu Roy, who had cast Bitasta in "Banchha Elo Phire" when someone had referred her name to him.
 
 Bitasta's Facebook profile reveals that she was suffering from depression last year.
 
 While many have noted that there was some kind of an emotional problem in her life as was reflected through her posts, others feel her action could have resulted from lack of professional assignments. "She would often keep in touch with me via WhatsApp. But I never noticed that she was down. She would appreciate my posts on Facebook and I too would do that. Perhaps, lack of professional assignments could have led to feeling unhappy. I never discussed this with her. Her death is very unfortunate," Gupta added.
 
 Joy Sengupta, producer of "Banchha Elo Phire", added that on the second day of the shoot of this film, Bitasta had seemed depressed. "She had spoken to our co-producer about feeling low. It wasn't a professional issue but some personal problem that was bogging her. However, we never asked her anything beyond that."
 
 Kolkata's fashion and film industry is now waiting for the truth to be unveiled about why Bitasta had made such an early exit from life.
 
