BHOPAL: More than 200 students of  ,Gwalior were detained on Monday as a preventive measure after tension as differences cropped up between professors and ABVP on one side, and a group of students on the other, over quiz competition. They were released later. Students wanted to organise the quiz as part of   celebrations on April 14

 A week ago, some law students approached their head of department Dr Ganesh Dube seeking permission to organise the quiz competition. Students alleged Dube denied permission and misbehaved with them. Later, a protest was launched under the banner of Dr   Students Front of India ( ).
 
 The trouble began after ABVP members supported professors. On Saturday, DASFI members went to the administrative building of the university, shouting slogans, demanding vice-chancellor (VC) Sangeeta Shukla to step in to address the issue.
 
 Sources said the matter hotted up when professor R A Sharma, who was asked to meet agitating students by the V-C, was allegedly manhandled by students. 
 
 Later, university professors came out in protest against the incident and lodged a complaint against students with the   police station. DASFI members staged demonstration and sat on hunger strike on the campus. They got a counter FIR lodged against the two professors under sections including SC/ST Act.
 
 ABVP students came in support of professors and demanding university authorities to rusticate DASFI members, who created ruckus on the campus. Additional police force had to be deployed on the campus to prevent any untoward incident.
 
 Gwalior had witnessed a clash between the   (BJYM) activists and members of the Ambedkar Vichar Manch (AVM) during a discussion on Ambedkar, which later snowballed into a major political drama in February 2016.
 
 BJYM and AVM members clashed when the former group interrupted the address by a JNU professor, forcing police to use mild force on to disperse members owing allegiance to the two outfits. An FIR was registered against BJYM president and 100 others under sections of the IPC and the SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act after the incident.
 
