In  , policemen have shown that they can teach a thing or two in farming to the drought-hit farmers there. At a time when the region is reeling under water scarcity like the rest of the state, the district   have turned an arid piece of land into lush green  . What’s more, in just six months the land has yielded a bumper harvest of guava, sapota and banana with the little water available from borewells through drip irrigation.

 The sprawling 38 acres housing the   used to be unbearably hot due to its dry surroundings, but not anymore. Of the 38 acres, 22 has been taken up for the cultivation. A total of 13,000 saplings of banana, guava, mango and murugai was planted. While many farmers in the adjoining areas had given up farming due to absence of water, the police personnel who took up the cultivation succeeded thanks to the drip irrigation installed with 1.15 lakh metres of pipeline.
 
 The effort was initiated by N Manivannan, former superintendent of police of the district, who was transferred to Madurai city recently. Those visiting the campus are all praise for the effort. Manivannan said that the land was an uneven rocky surface. Police personnel who reported for bandobast duty on the campus used to feel the heat. When they decided to improve the green cover of the area, they found water scarcity as a major impediment to it. Hence they opted for drip irrigation. First, the police utilised the available AR fund to sink a couple of borewells. With the help of helping hands like Syed Ammal Trust, they got the required materials for cultivation through sponsorship. 
 
 “With the help of dedicated police personnel on the campus, we managed to raise over 12,000 trees in just six months. Many of them have started providing the yield. This was possible because of the support from the Ramanathapuram DIG Kapil Saratkar and IG ( ) S Murugan who too showed immense love for nature and trees,” said the SP. 
 
 N Manivannan took up the initiative soon after he was transferred to Ramanathapuram in November last year. Now, the district police have formed a committee to sell the fruits. The money generated from the sales would be deposited back to the police welfare fund. 
 
 
