NAINITAL: A case of sexual assault on a minor girl in   came to fore on Tuesday, after the parents of a Class V girl at a government school alleged that their daughter was sexually assaulted by a teacher on May 8, but the education department failed to take action against the accused despite a formal complaint.
 
  The victim’s parents took to the street, along with other residents, to protest against apathy of the education department in taking the case to logical end and punishing the accused.
  
  Soon, education department officials rushed to the spot and promised them of strict action.
  
   , a basic shiksha adhikari, said, “We are investigating the incident, and the culprit will not be spared. The parents have submitted their complaints to us.”
  
  The victim’s parents live separately, and it was on May 8 when her father visited her, she broke down and told her father that the teacher forced her to stay back after the school was over and assaulted her sexually. The parents took the matter to the school principal, but to no avail.
  
  As days passed on, the parents and local residents decided to protest against the education department and the school administration for justice.
  
  The Nainital police had installed complaint boxes in various schools in Haldwani after a six-year-old was allegedly sexually assaulted in a private school in Haldwani on April 19, following which more than 200 people blocked the highway in protest.
  
  Boxes were placed in 21 co-education schools of Haldwani, and later the initiative would be extended to the entire district, said police officers.
  
  The motive was aimed at addressing complaints of children and guardians, and serious cases such as any kind of assault on children, said police officials.
  
  On April 19, the parents of a six-year-old girl student, along with city residents, staged a protest outside a private school in Haldwani, accusing a staff member of sexually assaulting their daughter and demanding his immediate arrest. They called off their protest only when the accused was arrested in the evening.
  
  Nainital district magistrate   and senior superintendent of police   had to rush the spot to contain the situation and assured the angry protesters that action would be taken against the accused.
  
  On April 17, an eight-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a 27-year-old in Lalkuan of Nainital district. The accused is on run. The accused,  , neighbour of the victim, was a frequent visitor to her home and the family members trusted him as their own.
