SHIMLA: With just a few months left for the assembly election in  , the gang-rape and murder of a minor girl in Kotkhai area of Shimla district has put the Congress government in a tight spot.

 While people are out on the streets demanding justice for the minor, the opposition BJP has launched a statewide agitation on the gruesome incident and is raising the issue right from the streets of Shimla to the Parliament in Delhi.
 
 No one had anticipated at the initial stage that the incident would rock the politics of Himachal Pradesh. The BJP is now demanding the dismissal of Congress government. Not only the Congress government, but even the party is on the back foot.
 
 Congress had launched the first phase of its “pathyatra” on Tuesday that was to continue till July 24, but on Wednesday state Congress president Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu suspended the yatra in Shimla district till further orders. Many felt that resentment among people of Shimla on the brutal incident has forced the party to suspend the event.
 
 On Wednesday, chief minister   was on a tour of Mandi district but a fierce protest by people in Shimla forced him to return midway.
 
 The BJP on its part seems to be in no mood to spare the Congress government on the issue. Earlier, BJP had submitted a memorandum to governor Acharya Devvrat. On Wednesday, BJP MPs from the state submitted another memorandum to Union home minister  , demanding the dismissal of the state government.
 
 Former chief minister and leader of opposition Prem Kumar Dhumal said people have lost faith in the government due to lapses in the police investigation. He said first photographs of some youths dubbing them as accused was uploaded on the Facebook page of chief minister, which were later removed. And when police arrested some people, none was from the lot whose photographs were uploaded earlier, he added.
 
 The BJP has called for a bandh in Shimla district on Thursday.
 
 Hamirpur MP Anurag Thakur on Wednesday raised the issue in the Parliament. He said on December 16, 2012, the unfortunate Nirbhaya case took place and the entire nation came together in the fight to get her justice.
 
 He said that what is unfortunate is that the event took place on July 4 and her body was recovered on July 6, but the Congress government did not take action till July 10.
 
 He said it was under the pressure of different organizations that police claimed to have cracked the case and posted the photographs of alleged culprits of the case on the Facebook page of the chief minister and deleted the same after a few minutes.
 
 He said this raises suspicion that efforts were being made to shield the real culprits. He said a day later, police arrested six persons and came out with their story which was full of contradictions. And this sparked statewide protests, he added.
 
