THRISSUR: Ruling and opposition parties as well as social organizations have demanded sterner action against police officers at Pavaratty in connection with the suicide of the dalit youth Vinayak, after he was released from custody. They have intensified the demand after postmortem report revealed that Vinayak has been tortured. 

 The postmortem report indicated that there were pressure abrasion at several body parts, including his chest. It also revealed scalp contusion on head and face. 
 
 According to medical experts these ante-mortem injuries cannot be linked to the suicide attempt. 
 
  The body of Vinayak - the son Chakkandan Krishnankutty of Engandiyur-was found hanging in a room at his house on Tuesday. He was taken into custody by the   on Monday morning, when he and his friend Sarath were talking to his female friend, at  , near Mullassery . 
 
  Sarath, who was also taken into custody then, had later said the police had tortured them severely. They were released by the police on Monday afternoon, after Vinayak's father and his friend came to the station. 
 
  leader and Guruvayur MLA K V Abdul Khader said that the postmortem makes it clear that Vinayak was tortured by the police. The government has suspended two police officers in connection with the incident. "Now a detailed investigation must be carried out in the light of the postmortem report, and strong action must be taken against the police officials who had tortured Vinayak,'' Abdul Khader said.
 
  President T N Prathapan has demanded that the cops must be dismissed from service. The family of Vinayak must be given a compensation of Rs 25 lakh, he said.
 
 Activists like M Geethananadan and Sunny M Kapikkad who have been campaigning for the rights of the dalits and tribals said a protest march would be taken to   office on August 2, demanding action against the police officials 
 
 Thrissur city police commissioner T Narayanan has ordered a departmental inquiry by district crime branch DSP P A Mohammed Arif against the suspended cops Sreejith and Sajan.
 
  The Thrissur Range IG M R Ajithkumar is also conducting another probe into the incident as per the directive of the DGP Loknath Behera.
 
