NEW DELHI: Many in the student and academic community of Delhi University feel that neither violence, nor sloganeering is right in an educational institution. In fact, the common students have been the worst-hit in the Ramjas fracas. These students and teachers feel that while the debate on nationalism is not new, educational institutions should be a “comfort zone for different views”. One of the student organizers, in fact, blamed   for the violence and AISA for trying to appropriate the platform.

 Debraj Mookerjee, senior English teacher of  , says this debate is not a recent phenomenon and has been raging for decades. “Mahatma Gandhi and ( ) Tagore differed on the idea of nationalism and yet they were able to talk to each other. When I was in college, there were many Kashmiri friends. They had a very different view on Kashmir and nationalism. Still we used to engage with them and often disagree but they used to find a comfort zone to live amongst us while holding different views,” he recalls. “This is a culture we need to be able to live with, be secure about our convictions and engage with those who hold views different from ours. In any discussion, if your primary goal is to impose your views on the other person, it essentially disrespects the other person’s views. In an academic institution, you don’t necessarily impose your will. On the contrary, you should believe that you have the conviction to have your views accepted by the other person. This is the kind of civility we want.”
 
 Rajendra Prasad, principal of Ramjas College, says “there is nothing academic in this whole issue. This is a result of politically motivated moves, be it the protest or the violence.”  , a student who was part of the team which organized the seminar, “Cultures of Protest”, echoed this view. “We all feel that AISA is trying to appropriate the whole event. It was a Ramjas students’ issue and we were opposing those who had disrupted a seminar at our college. There is an attempt to make it into an ideological fight -- left versus right.”
 
 Condemning the violence, Dhaniram Ambedkar, a commerce teacher at Ramjas, added: “Some people are trying to turn Ramjas College into another JNU, which we condemn unequivocally.” Mookerjee believes that the attempt to align Ramjas or for that matter Delhi University with JNU will be “self-destructive.” He says: “The kind of culture we promote in Ramjas contributes hugely to the future of a India that can be proud of itself. We infuse the ingredients of leadership, innovation, creative thinking, social responsibility and idealism.”
 
 A former professor emeritus of JNU, Anand Kumar, a freethinker, argues that it is the “lumpenism” of ABVP that will dilute the debate on nationalism and that the right-wing groups cannot monopolize “nation and nationalism”. He feels “the role of ABVP and DUSU is quite perplexing because they betray a feeling of insecurity and defeat in allowing any such programme where a very minor kind of intellectual resistance is offered by left intellectuals. They have demonstrated a lack of faith in the democratic culture where dialogue with the dissenters is an article of faith. They cannot monopolize protection of nation and nationalism as they belong to a tradition which was least prominent in the national freedom struggle and most aggressive against Gandhi and inclusive nationalism.”
 
