Luke Coutinho, MD, alternative medicine shares the secret for getting perfect  .

 Whoever said, “Abs are made in the kitchen” made a lot of sense. But it all depends on what’s being prepared in your kitchen. No matter how clichéd, the answer is: Healthy and balanced meal. And if you’re looking for flat abs, there are some foods and nutritional choices that you should make.
 
 
 
 Not all fats are created equal. Good fats are unique because instead of getting stored as fat they are utilised by our body for energy production, thereby raising metabolism and increasing fat burn. Cold pressed and virgin oils, homemade clarified butter, nuts and seeds, if used in the right way and quantity, are great for your abs. The effect of medium chain fatty acids like coconut oil on abdominal fat can be pleasantly surprising. You just need a tablespoon of cold pressed oil for that.
 
 
 What’s loaded with fibre? Veggies! Besides giving you all the essential nutrients, veggies can also give an edge to your waist slimming plans because it’s the best source of dietary fibre. Not only is fibre essential for portion control, but is also food (prebiotics) for probiotics in your gut.
 
 
 
 Spices like black pepper, cayenne pepper, ginger, garlic, cinnamon and turmeric, bring about great thermogenic and anti-inflammatory effects, boost circulation and go a long way in controlling insulin and blood sugar levels – all vital when trying to lose fat and get those perfect six-pack abs.
 
 
 
 Chemicals, preservatives, artificial sweeteners, processed sugars and trans-fats are foreign (toxin) to our body and fail to get metabolised contributing to belly fat. This includes a huge chunk of packaged foods since they are full of toxins. One of the deadliest ingredients could be HFCS (high fructose corn syrup) as it just adds more layers of fat to the abs by altering hormonal balance too. What’s more? Consuming toxins overburdens the liver and makes it sluggish. Lean abs become a near impossible dream.
 
 
 
 Lean protein sources, vegetarian or non-vegetarian, are important for muscle building. They prove to be even more beneficial if eaten at specific windows to allow maximum absorption (eg: post workout). Chicken breast, turkey breast, whole eggs and fish are great non-veg sources. Nuts, seeds, legumes such as beans, chickpeas and lentils, are great veg sources. If you must supplement your   with a protein shake, be sure to choose a high quality one. Something as natural as sattu does the job too. Limiting red meat will be helpful.
 
 
