For the first time in the 94-year history of Nagpur University, a woman has been given the charge of heading its physical education department. The sports HoD of Hislop College,   Jadhav, will now hold additional charge as director of physical education of NU from Monday.

 Kalpana took charge as the 10th director of Nagpur University sports department. The 55-year-old Kalpana arrived at the office with her 76-year-old mother and close friend Rama Jadhav. A former footballer, Jadhav has played for India in an invitational friendly in 1986.
 
 LJ Kokderdekar became the first director in 1935 and since then, the department has seen 9 men. Between 1923, which was varsity’s inaugural year, and 1934, sports was administered by the registrar. Jadhav’s immediate predecessor was Ravindra Pundlik.
 
 Jadhav aims to improve sports standards at the university. “It feels amazing to head the sports wing of one of the oldest universities in India. It was a pleasant gift just before International Women’s Day. My priority is to finish all the pending work by the end of the financial year,” she says.
 
 She makes light of her task. “Challenges are enormous but with my experience, I will be able to meet them. I will try to take the department to greater heights. I will provide more support to players and create and maintain the infrastructure of the sports complex,” said Jadhav, a 12-time senior national footballer.
 
 She added, “My mother Rama (national basketball player) is my best friend and was the first one whom I gave this news. She was very happy and has always told me to take all the hurdles in life as steps.”
 
 Registrar Puran Meshram said that the university decided to give Jadhav the charge after “looking at her administrative powers”. “It was strictly on merit. Being a national player herself, she knows all the ins and outs of sports. I am sure she will work for the betterment of sportspersons and take the university to a new high,” he said.
 
 Kalpana said though she is a woman, she does most of the activities like men. “I make no distinction in gender. I will be bold and courageous but will also assure fairplay in all aspects,” she said.
 
 
