MUMBAI: Renowned journalist   helped shape   for five decades with his razor-sharp analysis of contemporary issues at a time when India was passing through critical decades.The former   of `Maharashtra Times' passed away in Houston, US, early on Wednesday. He was 91.

 The legendary chronicler set the bar for   by blending professional values with editorial autonomy , and evolving a reader-friendly style which left countless Marathis asking for more. NCP president Sharad Pawar, a friend of Talwalkar's, once said how Maharashtra's mornings begin with Talwalkar's “crisp editorials and a hot cuppa, in that order.“
 
 The veteran scribe's passion for books, his regal aloofness and his deep bond with Mumbai have become part of the city's journalistic folklore. Praising Talwalkar for his integrity,   said, “When it came to calling a spade a spade, he chose to call it a shovel. He had the courage of conviction. To Talwalkar goes a large share of credit for nourishing Maharashtra's moral universe, and keeping politicians on a tight leash.“
 
 Shahane, whose fluency in Bengali is known, recalled how Talwalkar sat him down on a sunny afternoon in the sanctum sanctorum of the Asiatic Society of Mumbai and sought details from him on `Desh', the highprofile Bengali literary journal.“Within a week or so, Talwalkar penned an editorial on the magazine and its editor, Gaur Kishore Ghosh,“ Shahane added.
 
 Having graduated in 1947, Talwalkar joined `Navbharat', a journal edited by Gandhian Shankarrao Dev, as a rookie re porter. After a 12-year long stint as sub-editor in `Loksatta' between 1950 and 1962, Talwalkar joined Maharashtra Times as assistant editor and took over the daily's editorial reins from D B Karnik in 1968. He helmed Maharashtra Times for over 25 years.
 
 “Talwalkar analysed the layered political scenario in preand post-Emergency India with equanimity and erudition,“ said publisher Vikas Paranjpe, a die-hard admirer of Talwalkar's hard-hitting editorials. Stating that Talwalkar belonged to the scholar tradition of Indian journalism, former editor of Maharashtra Times Kumar Ketkar said, “Talwalkar stood for credibility .“
 
 Author of several books, Talwalkar was, say critics, best while penning obits, many of which have been compiled in three volumes. `Naoroji Te Nehru' takes a close look at India's political history, while `Sattantar' is a well-researched documentation, in three volumes, of the transfer of power in 1947.
 
