I still remember everything clearly as if it happened yesterday," says Manisha Das of October 29,  , as she tries to control a quiver that is just forming in her voice. She was eight years old then. "The phone rang at home around 6.15 in the evening. The caller was from a hospital and said my mother lay injured there and was calling out for my daadi. I started crying." Later, the family discovered that the tot’s mother was fighting for life in Safdarjung Hospital with 82% burns. Manisha’s 17-year-old brother was dead, and her father’s body hadn’t been identified yet. 

 Awaiting the court verdict, the young woman had said the judgment should have come much earlier. "It is necessary to punish these people so that there is fear among others who think of hurting innocent people," she reasoned.
 
 For 12 years, Manisha, now 20 and in first year in college, has watched her grandparents — Bhagwan Das, 70, and Celina, 66 — struggle to keep things afloat. That October day, after hearing of the blast at Paharganj, her grandmother had called and asked her father, Michael, to return home. "You worry too much, mother, he told me," says moist-eyed Celina. Minutes later, the news about the blast in Sarojini began flashing on TV.
 
 Bhagwan Das rushed to Sarojini Market. "The bodies were beyond recognition. Even DNA test could not confirm anything," remembers the sparely built man. Das retired from Air India in 2007 and found it difficult to bring up his granddaughter, especially since the compensation money took eight years in coming. "No politician has come in the past decade to find out what happened to the girl whose parents were killed," he rues. Forget assistance, he adds, even getting the guardianship certificate took over three years.
 
 The family’s six dogs provided the healing touch. "Our boxers would lick our hands and never leave us alone. They helped us face life again," says Celina. Manisha nods in agreement, stroking Tom, her white Lhasa Apso. "My dogs have given me more support than the VIPs with their promises."
 
 Circumstances have garnered Manisha unwanted media attention. "All through my growing years, I faced cameras. But I hold no grudge against the media. It is the VVIPs who came seeking publicity but never followed up on their promises that angers me," says the slender collegegoer, who, her grandmother reveals, aspires to become a master chef "like Sanjeev Kapoor".
 
 
