Jaipur: Just 5.87% of India’s population resides in Rajasthan, India’s largest state (in area). The health status of Rajasthan is one of the worst in India. Using data from Census 2011, researchers Monika Choudhary, Kush Dua and Sakshi Kushwaha of the Indian Institute of Health Management Research show that one neglected aspect of health could go a long way in improving the health – better   and a good drainage system.

 Census 2011showed only 21% of rural households in Rajasthan have a water source within the premises. This facility is available to 78% of urban households. The researchers also found that 67% of households fulfil their drinking water requirement from an untreated source, covered/ uncovered wells, hand pumps, river/canal, pond or lake.
 
 In their report, the researchers write that around 29-32% of rural and 8-10% urban households face health vulnerability – increased proneness to cholera, dysentery, typhoid or viral hepatitis – because of the quality of drinking water. 
 
 The researchers found a huge rural-urban divide in the availability of bathroom facilities. About 55% of rural Rajasthan households have no bathroom facilities within their premises; about 11% of urban households are in a similar condition. 
 
 Poor drainage facilities also predispose people to high morbidity. The data showed that 73% of rural households have no drainage facility and 24% have open drains, leaving 97% households vulnerable to various diseases. Urban households are also vulnerable to the same health hazard, where 14% households have no drainage facility whereas 52% have open drainage systems. 
 
 Census 2011 data showed that around 65% of households in Rajasthan do not have latrines within their premises. A large chunk of the rural population that has no latrines defecates in the open. However, researchers warned that in a situation where space might be lacking or water scarce, constructing toilets – as the current government is wont to, under the Swach Bharat Abhiyan may not serve the purpose as these might cause even greater vulnerability because of how hard it might become to maintain these to acceptable standards of cleanliness.
 
 “The vulnerability in terms of inadequate drainage infrastructure is bigger than that of sanitation infrastructure as a large population is exposed to the health hazard caused by infectious diseases because of inadequate drainage,” the researchers write.
 
 Poor indoor air quality because of arrangements for cooking – with 46% rural households cooking within the premises despite not having an organized kitchen is also a health concern that heightens propensity to lung ailments. Nearly 51% of rural homes have a mud floor, and if the climate is wet the dampness in the floor is something residents just have to live with. This too causes morbidity, as the propensity for moulds and mites to thrive in such interiors is high. 
 
 Crowding is another factor the researchers considered – this causes the spread of infectious diseases like TB, and also leaves people vulnerable to mental stress and illness. About 46% of rural and 30% of urban households, researchers found, were over-crowded. 
 
 WHO defines health not as absence of disease but a state of well-being. In recent years, the WHO definition has been further amplified to include the ability to lead a socially and economically productive life. This is only possible when every citizen can take decent housing for granted.
 
 
