MUMBAI: For a professional footballer, the joy of scoring for your country is unmatched. And Christmas Day in 2015 was indeed proving to be as joyful as it could get for  . He had just scored his and India’s second goal against   in the Blue Tigers’ opening   match at Thiruvananthapuram, when fate decided to add a cruel twist to the tale.

 Singh had apparently hurt his knee while doubling India’s tally and was promptly substituted. A few days later, an MRI scan confirmed his worst fears — the injury was worse than it seemed initially and it meant a lengthy absence for Singh.
 
 By the time he was able to resume training, nearly seven months later, the 2015-16 domestic season was done. Singh, though, was looking ahead. And while the immediate priority was getting back in top condition for the Indian Super League campaign with new team, FC Goa, returning to the national team was clearly the forward’s ultimate goal.
 
 When the 26-year-old’s name featured in a list of 31 probables for a camp scheduled to prepare the Blue Tigers for the third and final round of AFC Asian Cup Qualifiers, it was time to rejoice.
 
 “I was happy when I read my name on the strikers’ list,” Singh told reporters on Tuesday, the second day of the national team’s get-together at the Andheri Sports Complex. “It’s a proud moment for me to be back in the Indian colours,” he added, quickly pointing out that getting a starting spot was far from a foregone conclusion. “Am I back? No. It’s only halfway. So hopefully the coach gives me the nod and I’ll (actually) be back in the Indian colours.”
 
 The   forward is certainly going through a good period. He struck twice in the space of five minutes as the Kolkata giants tamed reigning I-League champions   3-1 in Bengaluru recently.
 
 But the time he spent on the road to recovery helped him wholeheartedly appreciate his return to competitive action. “To be very honest, the first time I played (after getting back), when I wore the FC Goa jersey, I almost cried. I wanted to play again. As a footballer, you never want to rest. You always want to play as many games as you can,” said Singh, revealing that national team boss, Stephen Constantine, had been in regular contact with him throughout his recovery.
 
 India are due to play Cambodia in a friendly in Phnom Penh next Wednesday followed by their opening Group A Asian Cup qualifier against 172nd ranked Myanmar in Yangon on March 28.
 
 
