CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, who also holds the  , on Friday sought the Centre’s aid in stepping up   to check   into Punjab, a demand that was also raised by his predecessor  

 “Since the border is manned by central security forces, the Union home minister should order strict vigil on the border to check cross-border smuggling of drugs,” Amarinder told the meeting of Northern Zonal Council. Union home minister Rajnath Singh was chairing the meet in Chandigarh on Friday.
 
 In June last year, amid attacks over the proposed cuts in Bollywood film Udta Punjab, a crime thriller based on drugs menace, Sukhbir had pointed to thin deployment of Border Security Force (BSF) personnel along the Punjab border as compared to Jammu and Kashmir. A controversy had erupted after SAD's ally partner BJP had objected to SAD’s protest against the BSF.
 
 Amarinder also made veiled attacks on the BJP-ruled states where poppy and cannabis cultivation is legal. He demanded shifting of poppy husk vends located in Rajasthan’s villages bordering areas. While these vends in Rajasthan are supposed to sell poppy husk only to permit holders in the desert state, the rules are openly flouted all along the border with Punjab where it is smuggled.
 
 “There is need for inter-state coordination. Neighbouring states of Rajasthan, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu & Kashmir must make focused efforts for the destruction of illegal cultivation of poppy and cannabis,” said Amarinder.
 
 He also reiterated SAD’s demand on seeking fiscal and industrial concessions on the pattern of those given to Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Uttrakhand.
 
 “This must be done to compensate the state for financial and economic loss already suffered by it. There has to be a level playing field to Punjab,” said Amarinder.
 
 The chief minister said that there was a pilferage of narcotic substances from areas where they are being cultivated legally for pharmaceutical and related purposes. “At least information sharing on criminal action against the smugglers involved in   should be promoted,” he added.
 
