AHMEDABAD: The average monthly income of a farmer in   is Rs 7,926. According to the central government’s Agriculture Statistics-2016, this is 40% of the monthly earning of a Punjab farmer (Rs 18,049) or 54% of a Haryana agriculturist. 

 The daily income of a farmer in Gujarat works out at Rs 264 per day, which is Rs 77 less than the national daily wage of an unskilled farm labourer (Rs 341 per day). The daily wage of a farm labourer in Gujarat is Rs 178 per day.
 
 The Centre’s agricultural data further says that 39.30 lakh farmer households in Gujarat have income less than Rs 1 lakh per annum. Experts say that apart from the lack of adequate irrigation facilities, there are myriad other reasons responsible for the low income of the state’s farmers. Gujaratis are prone to go for crops that fetched good prices in the previous years. Due to this, there is a glut leading to prices crashing, say experts. 
 
 The second and more important reason is that nearly 85% of state’s farmers are small or marginalized farmers holding land less than two hectares. Hence, their income remains low, said experts.
 
 RL Siyani, professor of agriculture economics, said that this is the average income which also takes into consideration nearly 15% of the middle-size and big farmers. The farmers who have less income are not even getting 50% of Rs 7900, which is the declared earning. 
 
 "Experts should take a scientific view when they decide increase in income of farmers or the low-end farmers will never have adequate income," Prof   said.
 
 Ghyanshyam Patel, a farmer-leader in Bhavnagar, said that lack of facilities like irrigation had affected the income of the farmers. 
 
 "The per hectare productivity is also decreasing. Moreover, the farmers who are not able to get good prices for their produce, are incurring losses and are throwing their produce on the roads," Ghanshyam Patel said.
 
 Gaurang Patel, chairman of Unjha agriculture produce market, said Gujarati farmers are prone to go for crops that had fetched a good price during the previous years. Due to this, there is a glut that leads to prices crashing. "Farmers should go in for farming of a variety of crops based on the weather and even soil condition rather than going by past trends," Gaurang Patel said.
 
 "I have 3 hectares of land. My income on an average is just Rs 1 lakh per annum and for that Rs 1 lakh, I have to bear the tension of crop failure or crops being destroyed by animals. In my own village, there are several households whose annual income is less than Rs 60,000,"said Vipul Bovaliya of Amrutvel village, Mahuva taluka.
 
 "I have 4.5 hectares land and I grow castor and cotton crops. Since I have adopted scientific methods like drip irrigation and also rotation of crops — I even get the soil checked before sowing any crop — has helped me earn 30% more than other farmers who have the same land holding. My annual income is around Rs 3 lakh per annum," said  , a farmer of Mahisagar.
 
