GURGAON: Air pollution shot up to ‘unhealthy’ level on Sunday as the mercury took a slight dip and   covered large parts of the city, hiding the sun. The minimum temperature on Sunday was recorded at 9 degrees Celsius, down from 9.6 degrees Celsius on Saturday. Met office has forecast a comparatively brighter and warmer Monday.

 However, the Met department has predicted light showers on Wednesday and Thursday owing to winds from northern region, which may again bring the temperature down. The data available with the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) suggested that the concentration of particulate matter (PM) 2.5 on Sunday was at a level that was five times higher than what is prescribed as safe by   (WHO).
 
 The highest value of PM2.5 was recorded at 279.97µg/m³ on Sunday, a sudden rise from what was recoreded during the past two days. The highest value of PM2.5 was at 136.98 µg/m³ on Saturday and 114.07µg/m³ on Friday.
 
 Air Quality Index (AQI), which touched the 165-mark during the day, also touched the‘unhealthy’ level. 
 
 The levels of carbon monoxide (CO) were recorded between 0.55mg/m³ and 2mg/m³ on Sunday and Saturday, respectively, considerably low in comparison with the 70 mark reported earlier this month. As per WHO, the poisonous gas’s concentration should not cross the 4-mg/m³ level in the atmosphere.
 
 HSPCB claimed that a slight dip in temperature caused the pollution level to worsen. “Sunday was not as bad as days in last week in terms of pollution. A slight increase in the level of particulate matter has been reported owing to a dip in temperature,” an official of the state pollution body said. 
 
 “A drop in the mercury level and an increase in fog generally reduce wind speed, leaving particulate matter trapped in the lower atmospheric level,” he said.
 
 Experts said the rise in air pollution vindicated the Supreme Court’s warning issued recently, and demanded implementation of all emergency measures as soon as the PM2.5 level touched the 300-mark.
 
 “The authorities simply blame weather conditions for the increase in PM2.5 concentration. 
 
 However, nothing has been done to implement pollution control measures, to stop waste burning in the open and dust swirls caused by mindless construction activities in the city,” said Vivek Kamboj, an environmentalist from Haryali (an NGO). 
 
 Some experts also raised concern over non-reporting of PM10 in the city. “Gurgaon is expanding day by day, but the city has only one air monitoring station. Besides, the station is not capable of giving reading of both PM2.5 and PM10 simultaneously,” said Col. Suresh Singh, a resident of Sector 22 and a retired professor of environmental sciences. 
 
 
