HYDERABAD: In a swift move to rein in liquor syndicates in the state, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Tuesday gave the green signal to effect a major reshuffle in the excise department.

 More than 192 excise inspectors and 20 excise superintendents were transferred and 23 assistant commissioners are to be shifted on Wednesday. The move has sent shockwaves in the department where inspectors have been hanging on to their posts for more than 4 years. Excise commissioner   on Tuesday issued transfer orders and sent the file related to assistant commissioners to principal secretary Somesh Kumar for clearance.
 
 The transfers are the results of inputs from the An sults of inputs from the Anti-Corruption Bureau and intelligence wings to the CM that a major unholy nexus is on between excise officials at the field level and the   According to the inputs, thanks to the nexus, the liquor syndicates have been able to jack up prices and in some places, they ran parallel shops thus doubling the ir profits. And in other instances, some outlets stay open 24 hours despite the rule that they should close after 10pm.
 
 Reacting to the inputs, the CM directed the department to transfer all longstanding employees. Not to give room for allegations, the CM had appointed a committee with senior officers who prepared guidelines to revamp the department. Accordingly, the department has given five options to employees who have completed more than 4-year stint at a particular place.
 
 “I have issued orders for shifting 192 excise inspectors. Higher level officers will be shifted by the government for which proposals have been submitted. A   has been followed to shift the staff.Honesty and integrity were given top priority while posting officials to focal areas,“ Chandravadan told TOI.
 
 With regard to the ongoing drug abuse case, Chandravadan on Tuesday dashed off a letter to the   department requesting them to sensitize the managements of schools.He also gave them the names of schools where the peddlers are on the prowl.
 
