NEW DELHI: Vodafone and Idea Cellular will merge to create India’s biggest telecom company, ahead of Bharti Airtel, and the joint venture comes at a time when Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Jio has unleashed a wave of fierce competition in the mobile market.

 The two companies have been discussing a merger for some months, and this was first reported by TOI.
 
 The new entity will have one of the country’s widest mobile network and will boast of as many as 40 crore subscribers. Bharti Airtel is currently the largest telco with 27 crore customers.
 
 The combined company would clearly have a dominating presence in the Indian telecom market with 35% customer market share and 41% revenue market share.
 
 “This landmark combination will enable the Aditya Birla Group to create a high quality digital infrastructure that will transition the Indian population towards a digital lifestyle and make the Government’s Digital India vision a reality,” Aditya Birla Group Chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla said.
 
 “For Idea shareholders and lenders who have supported us thus far, this transaction is highly accretive, and Idea and Vodafone will together create a very valuable company given our complementary strengths,” Birla added.
 
 Vodafone also expressed confidence on the new merger. “The combination of Vodafone India and Idea will create a new champion of Digital India founded with a long-term commitment and vision to bring world-class 4G networks to villages, towns and cities across India,” said Vodafone Group CEO Vittorio Colao. “We look forward to working with the Aditya Birla Group to create value for all stakeholders.”
 
 The companies are yet to decide on a new name for the merged entity. “The brand strategy of the combined company will be developed in due course and will leverage customers’ affinity for both existing brands, built up over the past decade. The name of the combined listed company will be changed in due course,” a joint statement said.
 
 Vodafone will own 45.1% of the combined company after transferring a 4.9% stake to the Aditya Birla Group Rs 3900 crore in cash, concurrent with completion of the merger. The Aditya Birla Group will then own 26.0% of the combined company and Idea’s other shareholders will own the remaining 28.9%.
 
 “The Aditya Birla Group has the right to acquire up to a 9.5% additional stake from Vodafone under an agreed mechanism with a view to equalising the shareholdings over time. If the Aditya Birla Group does not equalise its stake, Vodafone will reduce its holding in order to equalise its ownership with that of the Aditya Birla Group. Until equalisation is achieved, the additional shares held by Vodafone will be restricted and votes will be exercised jointly under the terms of the shareholders’ agreement,” the companies said.
 
 The companies said that the combination of their networks and spectrum holdings, together with continued investment, will accelerate the pan-India expansion of wireless broadband services on 4G/4G+/5G technologies to build capacity, supporting the expansion of digital content and IoT services and delivering a world-class broadband experience to customers.
 
 The combination will drive in huge synergies for the two companies. “Run-rate cost and capex synergies are expected to reach Rs 14000 crore on an annual basis by the fourth full year post-completion.”
 
