BENGALURU: Chief Minister   took to Twitter on Saturday, saying he has asked the police commissioner to diligently investigate the eight   against Manjunath V, an office boy employed with a preschool in  . 

 In another tweet, the CM directed the education and women and child departments to ensure strict implementation of the   through public information campaigns. Parents of the eight children had lodged complaints of molestation with  . The complaints also blame the preschool management for having neglected repeated complaints from parents.
 
 “We are contemplating further action against the franchise, which may include termination of the licence, given the serious allegations,” the management of the preschool chain said in a written statement on Saturday.
 
 Police sources said they will ensure that parents or children don’t have to visit the police station to give their statements. “A woman officer dressed in plainclothes will visit the complainants’ homes to record their statements,” a senior officer said.
 
 Responding to parents’ concerns over admissions of their kids to other preschools, the statement said: “If any parents associated with the above franchise wish to transfer their children, now or later, to any other franchise nearby for this or any other reason, we will request other branches to facilitate the same.” “We want to assure everyone that we will ensure appropriate action is taken against the accused,” it read.
 
 Parents to organize peace march today
 
 It’s been a little over a week since the complaints came to light. Parents will hold a peaceful demonstration at the cricket ground behind HAL police station from 10am to noon on Sunday. Dressed in black, a mark of protest, they will demand the end of child sexual abuse in schools.
 
 On Twitter 
 
 CM of Karnataka @CMofKarnataka
 
 Have asked Police Commissioner to diligently investigate the play school child abuse cases. The guilty will not be spared.@CPBlr
 
 CM of Karnataka ‏@CMofKarnataka
 
 Education & Women & Child Dev Depts must ensure strict implementation of Child Protection Policy in schools. Time for a public info campaign.
 
 
