In the last three years, since the inception of the Indian Super League (ISL) and the birth of  , there has been a spurt in football fan following in the city. After former Italian footballer,  , coached the team for three years, this season, former English player and   coach,  , has taken over the responsibility. He was in the city for two days, before he left to Mumbai with the team owners and the assistant coach of CFC Sabir Pasha for the player draft of the season, which is happening today.

 
 In a media interaction during his quick visit to the city, John said, “I was really humbled and overwhelmed to see so many fans turning up at the airport to welcome me on Thursday morning at 5am. Special thanks to them.” He added, “I am following in the footsteps of Marco Materazzi who had done an amazing job here. He has left a big pair of shoes for me to try and fill. And I hope I will be able to bring back success to the club in the forthcoming seasons.” When asked if he had a chance to follow Chennaiyin FC during the previous seasons and what he found impressive about the team, he replied, “Yes, I have been following it for the last three seasons. But obviously, we tend to watch the highlights of the game. 
 
 Again, what’s gobsmacking is the fan support the team enjoys. How vocal and passionate the fans are things that have really impressed me. Also, the attendance for the team’s matches and the noise that they make during the game — many clubs in England would be ecstatic to see that kind of numbers. Also, the quality of football played by the team is exceptionally good. I even heard some first-hand stories from people here about the problems Chennai faced off the field (hinting the 2015 floods), but the team ended up in the final and won the title for the people of Chennai.” 
 
 
 Co-owner of the team Abhishek Bachchan welcomed the coach and said that he is going to shoulder the dreams of CFC fans across the country. “We welcome John to Chennai and our family, Chennaiyin FC (CFC). We’ve very high hopes and expectations from John and we are very confident that he will fulfill all of them. These are hopes and expectations of millions of CFC fans across the country. The last three seasons have been very memorable for us. Although, the last season didn’t meet our expectations, I guess, one cup in three years is a commendable achievement. John brings in a lot of experience — that of the game, man management, etc. John also has experience in similar conditions, handling new young teams and he is someone with a keen eye for young talents. On Sunday, we hope for a good player draft and hope to come back here with as competitive team as possible and put up a good challenge to win the cup, once again,”Abhishek shared his thoughts excitedly. 
 
 
 Of course, the fans are excited about the new season and have full confidence in the new coach. “Yes, John is someone who believes in young talents. Also, he has mentioned in his interviews that the Indian players need to be given more chances. That attitude of John will help better the Indian football. Inigo Calderon is a good addition to the team. With the kind of experience he has, we hope that he will be made the captain of the team,” said Jenisha Rani, a member of the ChennaiyinFC Fans-Supermachans.
 
 Another CFC fan, Dinesh Raj said, “Today’s draft is going to be crucial. Chennai is in the fourth round as the team has retained a few players. It isn’t actually a disadvantage as the players they’ve retained in the squad are extremely good. We also hope that there will be a few Tamil Nadu players as well in the team, after the 
 draft today.”
 
 
