HYDERABAD: The Telangana government is in no mood to do away with the `ration portability' facility in   despite dealers threatening to go on strike from August 1if it is not withdrawn.

 The dealers have also demanded a minimum monthly honorarium of Rs 30,000 and said that they will stop selling essential commodities like rice from August 1, if their demands are not met. However, the state government has not responded positively to this demand so far. Over 1.20 lakh people have availed the portability facility in the various FP shops located in the limits of   in just the month of June.
 
 Officials said portability is not only a facility to card-holders to pick FP shops of their choice but also initiates a competition among dealers to offer better service to consumers. Presently , the portability facility is applicable only in FP shops in Hyderabad. The officials of   are making arrangements to extend it to all shops in the state in a phased man ner. However, the dealers are firm on their demands with their   leader Bathula   stating that there is no question of going back on the strike call if their demands were not met.
 
 Speaking to TOI over phone from Warangal, where the dealers organised a massive rally on Wednesday demanding monthly honorarium, Ramesh Babu said, “ Almost all the dealers will stop selling subsidised rice through FP shops from August 1 if our demands are not met. The government should formally announce payment of a monthly honorarium to us before July 31,“ he asserted.
 
 Stating that their income from such shops has come down drastically as the government has been withdrawing essential commodities from the public distribution system (PDS), such as sugar, edible oil and wheat, he said that even the price of per quintal rice has not been enhanced for several years now. As a result, it has become difficult for FP shop dealers to earn even Rs 5,000 per month.
 
 “One of the FP shop dealers in Sircilla recently committed suicide owing to financial problems. Let the government do anything they want with PDS. All we want is monthly honorarium of Rs 30,000 replacing the commission, so that we can feed our family members at least twice a day . We will accept e-pos machines and all other reforms of the government if we are given the honorarium,“ Ramesh Babu said.
 
 On their part, the officials of civil supplies department said that there are plans to transform these shops into super markets and mini-banks and then, dealers would get their commission on every transaction. “The dealers should not act in haste,“ officials said.
 
