CHANDIGARH: New York ­based Renuka Malhi left a career in information technology mid way to plunge into the competitive world of fashion designing. It was after her first child was born in 2007 that she enrolled for fashion degree programs in New York in 2008. Her family frowned upon her decision, but her heart was set upon achieving her dream. She said, “I reminded myself that it would be impossible to pursue my dream after a few more years. I knew it was now or never.“

 “I enrolled for two courses simultaneously -in fashion design and fashion buying and merchandising --as I always wanted to be an entrepreneur and a designer. My businessman father, who passed away in 2015, always taught me that life is about exploring new things and one should live it to the fullest.“
 
 Once she had completed her education in fashion, she interned with some major brands like   ,   and Company and Bridal World, which gave her an insight into the intricacies of the world of fashion.
 
 This was a period of endless hurdles and challenges, but she didn't give up. It was not an option for her, she says.
 
 “Starting my own line was my dream. I wanted to showcase not only fashion, but beautiful Indian culture in a modern way . My second child was born in 2014, and that gave me a little break and brought positivity and new energy in me as a mother and as an individual.That's when Re' MALHI, her fashion line was born.
 
 Winning the   2013 title helped me bringing my talent in front of the world.
 
 She said her computer engineer husband was the one who encouraged her to participate in the London fashion week. “My family is a great help. My mother is my best friend and my grandfather (maternal) is my biggest mentor who taught me to live like a Tigress and fight like one.“
 
 Her first   creation, inspired by the biggest symbol of love, was featured in the New York fall 2016 show in September was a showstopper. The lavish draped tail gown with a handembroidered Taj Mahal on the broad maroon velvet belt was featured in a British magazine.
 
 Malhi's style had evolved by now. “My love for the rich and royal Indian embroideries, especially phulkari and bagh, inspired me to finally develop my own unique style which is 'Modern and Lavish Silhouettes', enhanced with very eye catchy couture embroidery techniques.“
 
 She was a hit at the `World Fashion Parade' in New York, and figured in many TV and Radio channels .
 
