AHMEDABAD: Unprecedented chaos caused by sheer mismanagement was witnessed on the   and Ashram Road on Sunday evening as thousands arrived in vehicles to watch the much publicized   and flower show.

 The resulting gridlock, taking place a day ahead of the Vibrant Gujarat Summit (VGS), proved yet again the lack of planning for which Ahmedabad is becoming increasingly infamous.
 
 The authorities had clearly not estimated the massive volume of traffic which clogged not just the riverfront but the adjoining arterial roads. No wonder, the administration found itself paralysed when the situation demanded action.
 
 Panic enveloped the area as it took people nearly two hours to negotiate the 2-km-stretch of   near the riverfront.Ambulance sirens of 108 services screamed for passage through the bumper-to-bumper traffic.
 
 The traffic authorities were not prepared for the sea of humanity that descended on the riverfront to witness the kite festival and flower show. After phone calls of panicky people flooded 100 emergency number, traffic authorities rushed reinforcements. DCP (traffic) Sudhir Desai said they had deployed what they thought was enough personnel for traffic control during the two festivals. “However, when the traffic situation seemed to go out of hand, additional personnel from traffic and local police were rushed to clear the snarls,“ Desai said.
 
 Senior police officers were pre-occupied with prepara tions for VIP movement during the Vibrant Gujarat Summit.DCP (control) Balram Meena conceded as much when he said he was unaware of the traffic chaos.
 
 People who had cleared the traffic jam swore to keep away from such festivals.  , a retailer from Bopal, found himself stuck in the traffic near Ellisbridge. “It's insane. I don't want to see the flower show now. But it's impossible to return,“ he said. It took him an hour to escape to freedom and safety . Strangely, policemen were absent where they were needed most. Local people took it upon themselves to clear snarls and facilitate smooth traffic flow.
 
 
 
 
 Sunday's traffic chaos should be a lesson for the state government. One wonders why, despite the active CCTV cameras installed for the kite festival and flower show on the riverfront, the traffic police did not react to the jam despite four hours of gridlock. Patients in ambulances, families, especially children and elderly, had a really tough time. This clearly reflects the absence of an effective traffic management plan. The city police had no clue about how much traffic personnel should be deployed. Such a lapse can have tragic consequences and should not be repeated.
 
