Trichy: Ideas poured in from students of NIT Trichy at the Startup Weekend organised by the institute’s E-Cell which ended on Sunday. They included 'Retila Technologies' aimed at solving communication problems with real time translation, 'Techie Helpline' looking to help budding companies find technical talent and 'Lifarm', an indoor farming solution based on hydroponics. 

 E-Cell NIT-Trichy is a student-run non-profit organisation which organises the weekend as an annual affair as is done worldwide. Startup weekend is an occasion for aspiring entrepreneurs with or without an idea to come together to pitch, form a team, bond with them and work on a single idea for 54 hours. The winning team 'Cocoon' proposed an attachable shade device focussing on cyclists on the NIT Trichy campus. 
 
 NIT Trichy director Dr. Mini Shaji Thomas graced the prize distribution function. While congratulating the winners, she requested the teams and individuals to carry forward the journey and set up businesses. She highlighted the advantages of venturing into entrepreneurship in present times when a very supportive ecosystem existed and start-ups had been given thrust by the Government of India.
 
 Director of Centre for Entrepreneurship Development and Incubation (CEDI) NIT Trichy, G Kannabiran who is mentoring the E-Cell activities with funding and organizational support, invited members of winning teams to apply for incubation and funding support from CEDI. 
 
 CEDI at present provides incubation space, seed fund up to Rs 25 lakhs and mentoring support. The winners and participants received valuable insights about incubation opportunities from the CEDI-Sonata Entrepreneurship Fund. The best ideas were shortlisted on day one based on their one-minute pitch. This was followed by team formation where each individual can join the idea he or she is interested in. 
 
 “This year, out of the 103 participants, 55 put forward their ideas resulting in formation of 12 teams,” said event coordinator Anand Kantheti.
 
 
