ROHTAK: The sit-in by Jat protesters in   village on Sunday resulted in the   remaining blocked for close to four hours as hundreds of agitators from neighbouring villages and districts rode to the venue in their tractor-trollies. Haryana roadways buses and other four-wheelers were seen stranded in the traffic jam for hours even as some protesters carrying tricolour climbed atop these vehicle, to get a vantage view of the ongoing dharna.

 Sensing growing panic among commuters, the district administration diverted the traffic on approach roads of neighbouring villages from Makdoli Toll Plaza, while heavy commercial vehicles were directed to stay put till the road was cleared.
 
 Despite the imposition of section 144 of CrPC, which bars assembly of five or more people at public places, around the venue a sea of people crowded the   highway, and youths danced on DJs belting out Haryanvi songs.
 
 Several members of All India Jat Arakshan Sangrash Samiti (AIJASS) requested the youths from the community to not to play DJ and drums but their pleas to went unheeded. Police sources said that there were at least vehicles fitted with huge speakers on the spot to entertain the youth. The police stepped up the security arrangements to curb any untoward situation in the fragile environment.
 
 Addressing the gathering, AIJASS chief   promised that the dharna would continue till all of their seven demands were accepted by the state government, including release of youths arrested during the violence in February 2016.
 
 Referring to meeting in Panipat with state government committee, Malik said that now the ball was in the chief minister's court but if they did not receive any positive reply, then they would snap the dialogue with the panel.
 
 Appealing the community to remain present in lakhs on February 19, Malik said that the Samiti would commemorate ‘Balidan Diwas’ to show their respect to those who gave life for the cause of reservation.
 
 “Na rail rukegi no sadak, par bukamp jurur aa jayega (After February 19, we would not block road or rail tracks but there will an earthquake for sure),” he added.
 
 
