PUNE: It promised to be a festival of spinners but was hijacked by a fast bowler who paraded his wares on a Day One track that took turn from the beginning at the MCA stadium here on Thursday .

  had to wait for 27 overs before he could have a go, but when his time came, he struck with telling effect, returning with day's best figures of 432 that reduced Australia to a modest 2569 on the opening day of the first Test. But for Umesh's counterpart Mitchell Starc's rearguard half-century ((57 batting), the visitors' innings could have been wrapped up much earlier.
 
 In the lead up to the Test, skipper Virat Kohli had heaped praise on his fast bowlers for the role they have played this home season, where the pitches hadn't been entirely conducive for fast bowling. “The pacers have stood out... have been really happy in bowling in one area for long periods of time and not getting desperate for wickets. I think that's been the most important thing... And that's one reason for our success. People are playing selfless cricket and the fast bowlers have been the prime contenders for that,“ Kohli had said on the eve of the match.
 
 On Thursday, the conditions were in favour of the slow bowlers. So much so that the captain opted to open the attack, after the tourists elected to bat, with his deputy, off-spinner R Ashwin, and pacer Ishant Sharma.
 
 But Umesh, having so far played the support cast, decided to play the lead role this time. He had to bide his time. He watched the hard leather being smothered by the willow when the pitch was at its juicy best in a Test match being played in subcontinental conditions. But it was a well thought-out ploy by Kohli and Umesh responded effectively .
 
 The 29-year-old struck off his second ball when he broke through the defence of leftie David Warner (38). The Australian opener, who has a century before lunch under his belt, was uncharacteristically stoic and perhaps too cautious.Having negotiated the spinners for nearly an hour and a half, Warner probably lost concentration when Umesh sent the cherry down a good length. Warner's footwork was a bit tentative and he ended up playing on to his stumps.
 
 Umesh was pushed to the background again, as Kohli employed spin from both ends for most of second session through left-armer Ravindra Jadeja (2-74) and Ashwin (2-59). Jadeja was accurate in his line and length. His reputation seemed to have preceded him, as the Australians gave him too much respect, and the Saurashtra allrounder was happy to keep them on a leash.
 
 Ashwin, on the other hand, seemed to mix it up a little too much on a pitch that offered appreciable turn from the start.True, Ashwin picked up the wickets of rival skipper Steven Smith and Austral ia's man of the day,  , but would have been happier with a little more than what he managed.
 
 With Ishant and offie Jayant Yadav not at their best, Kohli had to give Ashwin a long spell in the final session and bring back Umesh at the other end.Umesh nearly ran through the lower order. After trapping Matthew Wade leg before, he had Steve O'Keefe brilliantly caught by Wriddhiman Saha, diving high to his right and picking a one-handed catch. Umesh rapped Nathan Lyon on the pads off the very next ball, but was denied a hat-trick by Josh Hazlewood.
 
 The Australians might be ruing the fact that their top order didn't show the fearlessness displayed by Starc down the order. The left-hander clouted three sixes and five fours. The Aussie openers seemed to have gone in with a plan to play safe. It was a departure from their tradition of taking the attack to the opposition from the outset.
 
 
