GAYA/PATNA: Former diplomat   died in Delhi on Saturday. A resident of Karimganj locality of Gaya town, he had done his matriculation from  . He had joined Indian Foreign Service in 1958 and served as a vice-consul and consul in New York from 1959-61.
 
  Shahabuddin had hit the headlines in 1950 by breaking a 33-year-old record and getting 665 (800) marks in the matriculation examinations, then conducted by Patna University, retired IAS official IC Kumar said. He was the second topper in the 1958 UPSC exams.
  
  He was a Rajya Sabha member from Bihar during 1979-84 and a   member from Kishanganj from 1985 to 1989 and 1991 to 1996. Born in Ranchi in 1935, he was buried in Delhi after last rites.
  
  There is a popular story about him that during his UPSC interview, Shahabuddin was teased why Biharis were called ‘Buddhu’ (fools/stupid). Pat came the reply, “It was on account of their association with Buddha”.
  
  In his condolence, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar said, “I had spent quality time with him during the formation of Samata Party and he believed in the federal structure of the country and people’s participation in governance.”
  
  Muslim personal law board general secretary   called it the biggest loss for the country and Muslim community. “He was not only a very good officer and a leader, but also a good human being,” Rahmani said.
  
  All India Muslims Majlis Mushawarat (Bihar chapter) secretary general   said Shahabuddin would be remembered as the leader who did not compromise with his political principles.
  
  Noted surgeon A A Hai appreciated his efforts in carrying out a magazine named ‘Muslim India’, which was based on statistics.
  
  On several occasions, national newspapers and periodicals published former RJD MP Mohammad Shahabuddin’s photographs in place of the erudite former diplomat.
  
  Vice-President Hamid Ansari, in his foreword to the book ‘Syed Shahabuddin, outstanding voice of Muslim India’, described Shahabuddin as “a patriot to the core of his being, wedded in letter and spirit to the Constitution of India”. In the same book, Subramanium Swamy called him “a man of honour and integrity”.
