BHOPAL: The state government was always reluctant to order a probe into the admissions done on the basis of Vyapam-conducted entrance exams between 2008 and 2011 just to protect a senior RSS functionary, alleges Dr Anand Rai, who was the first to blow the whistle on the scam.

 “Now that   has ruled that the admissions were illegal, probe agencies should find out the channel which helped these students use unfair means,” he told TOI on Monday.
 
 On October 2, 2014, MP STF had submitted an affidavit before Jabalpur bench of MP high court stating that it is going to probe the scam in retrospective manner, but nothing happened. This submission was made during hearing of a PIL by a former independent MLA from Ratlam, Paras Saklecha and Saloni Chopra. Both petitioners had demanded a CBI probe into all PMT examinations conducted by   since 1997, alleging it was a scam of mammoth proportions. STF expressed its inability to probe the old examinations, claiming that documents required for this probe were not available with Vyapam or Professional Examination Borad as it is officially known.
 
 STF’s affidavit on January 17, 2014, reads: “Regarding investigations from 1997, it is submitted that STF entered into correspondence with MPPEB to collect other data so that scrutiny could be done. But it has been told that data prior to 2012 examination is not available. In absence of substantial evidence no investigation is possible.”
 
 Eight months later, STF submitted a fresh affidavit, “….it may be kindly taken on record that appropriate enquiry pertaining to PMT examination and pre-PG examination of which record is available with the board will be conducted and if any illegality is found cases will be registered.” Saklecha and Chopra claimed STF made a U-turn in the case under government pressure to prevent it from being handed over to CBI at that time.
 
 “However, neither STF nor CBI was interested in going back,” said Dr Rai. “More skeletons would have tumbled out of the closet of Vyapam had these agencies expanded the ambit of investigation into pre-medical test conducted from 2008 to 2011,” he added.
 
 STF had booked 12 people in PMT-2102 case. Chief managing director (CMD) of Shri Aurobindo Institute of Medical Science (SAIMS) and former BJP minister Laxmikant Sharma’s OSD O P Shukla were among those arrested in this case. However the 2011 and older was not looked into. “A bigger scam would surface if documents of candidates who appeared in PMT between 1997 and 2011 are probed,” said Dr Rai.
 
 In 2011, while replying to a question in the MP Assembly, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had said no fraudster had been identified, notwithstanding fact that a four-member committee that identified 296 students as ‘suspicious’ in that period. Three years later, in July 2014, former exam controller of MPPEB Sudhir Singh Bhadoria was booked in connection with the scam. Bhadoria had a longer stint in MPPEB than his successor, Pankaj Trivedi, who was arrested in September 2013 in connection with irregularities in PMT. During interrogation his alleged involvement in several other entrance and recruitment exams conducted by MPPEB came to light, say sources. Bhadoria was MPPEB’s exam controller from 2006 and was replaced by Trivedi in 2011.
 
 Insiders say an in-depth investigation into Bhadoria’s tenure would have opened a Pandora’s Box, including a scam in Pre-Engineering tests (PET) which remained out of STF’s ambit. He has been named in the FIR on basis of statement given by Deepak Yadav, another scamster, arrested by Gwalior police.
 
 “Select candidates were advised to leave their OMR answer sheets blank and were given high marks after exam,” said a police officer. Answersheets too were leaked prior to the exam date, he said.
 
 
