The specially designed track at the   usually has several off-roading enthusiasts burning rubber every weekend. But on this Sunday morning, however, the enthusiasts were acid attack survivors from NCR, who were driven around by expert drivers, including city-based rally champion  . For all of the survivors, it was their first off-roading experience. 

  
  An acid attack survivor poses for us during her first off-roading experience
 
 
  The survivors sat alongside experienced drivers and experienced off-roading with a drive through various obstacles, mud pits and even a water-filled pond. Bani Yadav, who had also initiated the event, said, "Motorsport, in any form, should be open to everyone and we want it to be more accessible."
 
  Bani Yadav said, "This drive is just an effort in that direction. I want to show that anybody can take up motorsport if they want to, and this was an effort to familiarise some acid attack survivors with off-roading." Nasreen, one of the survivors who had their first experience at off-roading, said, "It was an absolutely unbelievable experience. I don’t have words to describe it. Now, I just want to learn driving well enough to try this on my own someday."
 
 
  
  
 
  The event was also attended by two racing champions - Mira Erda, the first Indian woman to drive in Euro JK Series Championship, and Aditya Thakur, one of the leading Autocross drivers in the country. "I'm usually used to driving on the roads and the tracks so this was quite different. But I had fun," Mira said later.  , inspector general-cum-chief security commissioner,  , also had her first experience of off-roading at the event. "It was quite an experience. I think more women need to take up motorsports. I had fun because not only did I get to experience off-roading, I also ended up meeting new people here," she said.
 
 
 
  
  SRK moment for Aruna and Sonia
 
 
 
  
  Bani Yadav with Jaiaya Varmah, Inspector general-cum-chief security commissioner, Railway Protection Special Force (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
  
  Racers Aditya and Mira pose with acid attack survivors (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
 
  
  Racer Mira Erda drives on the track (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
