MUMBAI: In a major boost to millions of railway commuters on Mumbai’s lifeline, the National Consumer Redressal Commission held that a commuter with a valid ticket or pass is a consumer and comes under the purview of the socio -beneficial legislation. The commission rejected a plea by Western Railway questioning its jurisdiction and upheld an order of the Maharashtra state commission which granted   to a passenger left with 100% functional disability after a heavy wooden plank fell on his head at   station in May 2010. The   was undergoing renovation work. The   includes Rs 5 lakh for “pain, suffering, mental agony and loss of amenities”.

 “The Consumer Protection Act is a beneficial legislation, specially enacted for protection of consumers and provides an additional remedy…(it) clearly lays down the provisions of the Act shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of the provisions of any other law for the time being in force,” held the commission in its order by presiding member B C Gupta on January 18.
 
 WR had challenged a December 2014 order of the state commission, awarding compensation to Vinod Sharma, a 34-year-old Nalasopara resident whose normal life and career as manager at an infrastructure company ended almost seven years ago along with his commute before his work day could begin.
 
 Its plea was that a commuter was no consumer under the consumer law as the railway identity card in his possession was without his signature as was the season ticket. It claimed only the Railways Act and Railway Claims Tribunal (RCT) Act of 1987 would apply. Besides, it said it had already paid over Rs 25 lakh for his medical treatment. “This contention of WR is without force, as the Railways have nowhere denied that these are not documents issued by them. The Railways have not alleged anywhere that the complainant made any forged identity card or season ticket. It is held, therefore, that the complainant cannot be denied the privileges of a consumer…” said the commission.
 
 Both the state and national commissions held he was entitled to compensation for permanent damages caused. “The state commission rightly concluded that as a result of the injury suffered during the  , the complainant was not in a position to do any work and his functional disability was 100%,” said the national commission.
 
 Sharma travelled daily between Virar and Churchgate for work. On May 13, 2010, he alighted at Churchgate at 10.45am, but had to be taken straight to hospital. “A heavy wooden plank/sleeper, 10 feet long and 2 ft wide, fell on his head, on platform 3, from a height of more than 50 feet, causing grievous brain injury and multiple skull fractures. Renovation at platform 3 was in progress at the time, but there were no warnings or sign-boards nor fencing at the spot,” the order noted.
 
 Sharma was in Bombay Hospital for four months for skull surgery. He was paralysed in the upper and lower limbs and brain damage caused severe language impairment. Treatment would be life-long, his lawyer argued. He also requires a special diet costing Rs 6,000 a month. In 2012 when he moved the state commission, he sought a compensation of Rs 80 lakh. His counsel said the Railways stopped making payments after the consumer complaint was filed. To his wife’s plea in 2012 for medical reimbursement of Rs 16,000, the Railways asked her to apply to the RCT. The Railway Act provides an elaborate mechanism to provide compensation in case of accidents, untoward incidents and allied matters, during the course of operations carried out by the Railways.
 
 But citing judgements of the Supreme Court, the commission held that the “consumer fora do have the jurisdiction to deal with the present case and hence, the complaint cannot be dismissed on the ground of lack of jurisdiction.”
 
 
