Mumbai:   , which launched its operations on Monday with 410 branches, has announced a partnership with ICICI Bank. The agreement includes having   ATMs in the new bank’s branches. 

 FPB will also sell other ICICI group products including  , life and  . Speaking at the launch of the payments bank,  , MD & CEO, ICICI Bank said, “The idea of Fino sprouted in ICICI Bank with the objective of addressing the gap in the banking system in terms of serving unversed individuals.She added that FPB is well positioned to reap the benefit of the mobile revolution that was taking place. “It has the advantage of getting support from ICICI Bank in terms of infrastructure, knowledge and products. Fino will have access to a wide range of ICICI Bank products like term deposits, retail loans and cross border remittance services,” she added.
 
 Announcing the medium-term and long-term targets of the bank, CEO Rishi Gupta said that FPB will add 30-40 lakh customers in the first year and increase it to five crore with a deposit base of Rs. 10,000 crore in 5 years. “We plan to build a network of over one lakh points and over 1,000 branches. We aim to become the first profitable payments bank following a multi-product, multi-platform and partnership strategy,” said Gupta.
 
  — the holding company for FPB — provided a platform for banks to lend to the unbanked by operating as a business correspondent of banks. After obtaining a payments bank licence, the business correspondent division has been transferred to the bank. The group has another microfinance business, which is housed in a separate subsidiary — Fino Finance. Earlier, Fino raised Rs 400 crore for its payments bank with oil major   investing Rs 251 crore, and ICICI Bank and   bringing in the rest.Gupta said that the bank was optimising costs by making its own investments in the front-end and leasing services for the back-end. For its back-end, Fino has tied up with IT provider   for core banking using an application service model.
 
 In addition to the 410 branches, FPB has created a network of 25,000 banking points, of which some are BPCL outlets, to gain access to remote geographies of the country.
 
 
