CHANDIGARH: On Friday, Punjab and Haryana govenments received notice from the Punjab and Haryana high court on a plea seeking directions to make the bills at all liquor vends computerized in the upcoming excise and policies of both the states.

 The matter reached before the HC in the wake of a petition filed by a local NGO Arrive Safe headed by its president  .
 
 The   informed the court that issuance of invoice on all liquor vends across the states would have threefold benefit — maintenance of accounts and check on the cash/credit transaction, and computerized billing would help in boosting revenue to the state, which can be used in other welfare programs. Thirdly, a computerized invoice with vend code and actual price charged from the consumer would act as a safeguard for the consumer who would then be assured of quality. A dissatisfied consumer would be able get his grievance redressed in appropriate forum against the liquor vendor.
 
 It was further argued that with the issuance of a computerized bill across all vends, the menace of spurious liquor which is being sold at vends shall come to a halt. According to latest statistics published by national crime records shows that in the year 2015, more than 10 lakh litres of spurious liquor was seized by the police in Haryana, whereas more than four lakh litres of spurious liquor was seized by police in Punjab.
 
 Hundreds of people die every year after consuming spurious liquor, and unfortunately except some press reports there is no accurate government data available for the same. The vendor issuing a computerised bill shall understand his responsibility and then can at least be dealt with under the relevant provisions of criminal law, and some innocent precious lives could then be saved, said the petitioner.
 
 Petitioner further stated that with the use of one small machine, which should not prove a burden to the vendors, and with one/two men operating it, it will not not cost the liquor vendor much, rather it should be promoted as a saving measure to save the cost of human life.
 
 Petitioner has sought directions to issue directions/make provision in the upcoming excise policy for the year 2017-18 regarding issuance of computerized bills at all liquor vends across Haryana and Punjab, prior to the auction of liquor vends for the next financial year.
 
 
