NEW DELHI: Bickering with the landlord over bland food or for staying out till late may soon become a thing of the past for   and  . The scenario is changing with startups offering paying guest accommodations with state-of-the-art facilities and   that allow students to report their grievances or call a  .

 Two such startups —   and   — are giving PGs near North Campus a run for their money. They have been wooing students with fully furnished apartments in upmarket residential colonies with an array of facilities, including access cards.
 
 “We want to provide quality living to students. This is only possible by providing a centralised process to address their grievances,” said Amit Rohatgi, owner of Blossom Stayz. “Developing a website and an app has helped our business grow. We hit 100% occupancy shortly after creating the website. Now, we plan to increase the number of accommodations to at least 200,” he added.
 
 The students staying in such PGs said they zeroed in on them mainly due to the locality and secure ambience. “The PG staff is professional and responsible, unlike the landlords I came across while looking for an accommodation near my college. 
 
 “My parents also insisted that I stay in a colony that is more peaceful than the PGs at Kamala Nagar market,” said Aatreyee Saha, a first-year student at Hansraj College.
 
 CoHo offers fully furnished rooms with bunk beds for four occupants and single beds with triple occupancy, along with spacious common rooms. Targeting students and working professionals, this startup currently has 30 properties across Delhi-NCR of which 12 are for women. “The idea is to promote tech-enabled experimental living for students. To achieve this, we take care of every minute detail,” said Uday Lakkar, owner of CoHo.
 
 Those staying in the villa for boys at Roshanara road near Shakti Nagar said that their choice for the PG was based on several factors, including housekeeping facilities to responsiveness of the staff towards their complaints.
 
 “I visited many PGs, but didn’t get the facilities I was looking for at desired rates. Almost all PGs are a part of the unorganised sector. There is hardly any sense of accountability among the owners so professional service given by this company is definitely a plus,” said Soumik Banerjee, who’s in the city for a two-month internship.
 
 Most students said that few PGs have regard for cleanliness and are unresponsive on complaints even after charging an enormous amount. These startups are slowly becoming agents of change with the help of technological innovations, such as online concierge, and by providing shared serviced apartments.
 
