Chandigarh: Two   members, one each from Students For Society (SFS), Panjab University Students Union (PUSU) and Indian Students Association (ISA) got elected to the executive council of the Panjab University Campus Student Council here on Thursday. The executive council election to elect five members was held here on Thursday and 124 department representatives cast their vote to elect the executive council members. This is the first time that an SFS member has been elected to the executive council. 

 NSUI member Ramandeep Kaur, a student of the computer science and engineering department got 50 votes followed by PUSU member Gagandeep Singh, from University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences (UIPS), SFS member Gurpreet Singh from the department of laws and ISA’s Jaskaran Singh from UICET who got 36 votes each. With 28 votes, NSUI’s Harinder Singh from the Chemistry department also got elected to the executive council. As many as 15 student leaders from different student bodies contested for the executive council elections. 
 
 In the executive council elections too, NSUI got the majority by winning two seats. The Panjab University Campus Student Council consists of the post of four office-bearers and five executive council members. The Panjab University student bodies are however contemplating to bring in a no-confidence motion against the newly-elected PUCSC. According to the Panjab University norms for the PUCSC, if two-third of the department representatives (DRs) and executive Council gives no-confidence motion, it can nullify the elected Council. However, no decision has been taken so far. 
 
 “We are yet to take a decision on moving a no-confidence motion against the elected council. We will decide by Friday,” said senior leader of PUSU. After a photograph of three Panjab University (PU) professors meeting Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi at his residence in New Delhi went viral, it raised many eyebrows and the student bodies alleged that the student council was elected by the Panjab University authorities and not the students.
 
 
