LUCKNOW: To incorporate various orders issued by court from time to time, butchers in the city have demanded allocation of at least 100   in every municipal zone. There are eight zones in the city at present.

 Butchers complain that besides LMC's inability to provide a modern slaughterhouse in Lucknow, the corporation has failed to provide fixed meat markets which is a cause of the ongoing meat crisis. UP Meat-Murga Vyapari Kalyan Samiti's president Mohd. Iqbal Qureshi said, “Since no one wants a meat shop near their house and high court orders have also mandated for slaughterhouses to be built away from residential areas, LMC should provide us with fixed vending places."
 
 The proposal has been pending with LMC for over a decade. Butchers claim if LMC had given them fixed vending spots, such a situation wouldn't have arisen.This would have also been in conformation with the HC orders of 2007.
 
 The present meat shortage is largely because of LMC's reservations against renewal of meat traders' licences. Their biggest hesitation is because either a meat shop is located near a religious place or a residential locality. “More than 75% meat vendors did not have licences so they were forced to sell unlicensed meat,” said Qureshi.
 
 LMC has worked on this project before and even identified lands in various zones for meat market so butchers want it to get the plan approved from the government. The survey for land for meat markets in was done in 2007 (there were only six zones back then).
 
 Butchers said they had put the proposal before LMC's executive committee in 2007 but because of the then mayor's reluctance to get it approved on account of religious sentiments of people, the project was shelved. However, the present ban on illegal meat shops has once again forced LMC to reopen the project.
 
 LMC's senior veterinary official said, “The butchers' demand is old. Yes, few plots of land were identified 10 years ago but later it was realized that there are too many meat shops in the city already, hence no new shop was needed. However, the demand is genuine in the present context. So we'll get the approval from the state government and would ask LDA to make markets outside populated areas in every zone."
 
