RAJKOT: BJP   Govind Parmar from   in Gir Somnath district and his son Sursinh Parmar, were accused of beating up and threatening staff members of Dari village toll booth on Thursday evening. One of the toll booth employees, Urvish Solanki, had to be hospitalised with severe injuries at   civil hospital.

 Cross complaints were filed with the Prabhas Patan police station by Sursinh and the toll booth manager against each other.   footage from the toll booth shows an SUV with ‘MLA Gujarat’ written on it breaking the barricade after altercation with staff members there. The footage also shows people arriving in other vehicles an beating up Solanki and others.
 
 Meanwhile, Urvish Solanki, while talking to media has accused MLA Parmar and his men of beating him up. “There was some altercation when an SUV driver with ‘MLA Gujarat’ written on it refused to pay toll tax at Dari toll booth. While the altercation was an with other toll booth staff, I called the police control room and informed them about the incident,” Solanki told local media persons.
 
 “After the SUV went off breaking the barricade, two-three SUVs came with over 20 men. MLA Parmar and his men thrashed me and one of them even put a pistol on my head and threatened me of dire consequence if I made a police complaint against them,” said Solanki.
 
 In the police complaint Parmar’s son Sursinh has alleged that the 7-8 toll booth staff members attacked them with pipes and sticks at round 7 pm on Thursday at Dari toll booth. He also alleged that they accused stole his gold ring worth Rs 12,000. Police have booked toll booth staff members Pradeep Jadeja, Praful Solanki and 7-8 other persons for loot and assault.
 
 Meanwhile, the toll booth manager Deepak Vaadhiya (27) has accused 2-3 persons of creating ruckus at the Dari toll booth when asked to pay toll tax. He also accused them of breaking the barricade and incurring a loss of Rs 3,000. However, he has not named the people who assaulted the the toll booth staff members.
 
 
