Margao: In a first, the   panchayat has introduced entry fee in the form of   collection and parking charges from anyone who enters the scenic village. 

 While Rs 20 is charged per head, two-wheelers, four-wheelers and six-wheelers are charged Rs 50, Rs 100 and Rs 400, respectively. However, 50% of the amount charged for vehicles is refunded to the visitors once the garbage generated by them is handed over to the   at the entry-cum-exit point set up near the panchayat.
 
  The panchayat provides a garbage bag to the visitors for collecting the litter they generate. Besides, a sticker is affixed to the tourist vehicles to help the villagers identify the guests and offer them any assistance in the village. 
 
 The entry fees have been introduced just two days ago on Saturday, and already the panchayat’s coffers have started ringing.
 
  Deputy sarpanch Abhijeet Dessai told TOI that the move has been receiving good response, with 95% of the tourists claiming 50% refund by handing over their litter to the panchayat. 
 
 “On the very first day, which turned out to be a weekend, 150 vehicles visited the village, and we collected revenue of Rs 17,000 from these fees. By Monday, our collection had gone up to Rs 22,500. We had more than 500 footfalls in the past three days. We expect to generate revenue of Rs 3 lakh per month for the panchayat,” Dessai said. 
 
 In return, the panchayat currently provides parking space, security services and lifeguard services at the waterfalls. 
 
 Justifying the panchayat’s decision to introduce entry fees, Dessai said the move, besides ensuring that the village is maintained “clean and green”, would also provide ample employment opportunities for the poor unemployed village youth.
 
 “Since our village is endowed with scenic environs, a large number of tourists are attracted to this place. Villages like Saljini, Verlem and Tudav, are particularly scenic. Tourists find waterfalls of Mainapi and Savari simply marvelous.
 
  As these places come in the Netravali wild life sanctuary, the forest department also charges entry fees from visitors, but panchayat doesn’t earn any revenue. 
 
 The forest department has also failed in providing any basic amenities, like toilets and changing rooms at the tourist places. It will be the panchayat’s endeavour to provide these facilities from the revenue earned through these fees,” Dessai said. 
 
 The panchayat also has plans to offer services like tourist guides and provide life jackets to those venturing into the waterfalls. 
 
 “The panchayat has no other avenues for revenue generation, and we are within our rights to collect these charges,” Dessai said.
 
 
