NOIDA:   CEO   has promised to look into the long-pending demand of the power department for funds for 92 transformers to ensure   across residential sectors, especially those facing overload during the peak season. 

  PVVNL had requested the Authority for funds for the 400-kV transformers in March 2016, and had not received a response despite reminders in November last year.
 
 The CEO had a meeting with PVVNL superintending engineer Mukul Singhal a month ago on the issue. If sanctioned at the earliest, Singhal said work could be completed by April.
 
 “We had raised the demand for 92 transformers of 400-kV capacity in March last year to improve power supply in both residential and industrial sectors during peak summer. We all know that overload and eventual breakdown of transformers is a common problem in summers, especially in industrial and large residential sectors, which require more than one transformer. If we get these new transformers, we can largely curtail the problem of overloading, and reduce power cuts,” Singhal told TOI.
 
 Sectors such as 30, 31, 36, 38, 39, 50, 51, 52, 79, 83, 84, 110, 112, 117 and the industrial sectors of Phase 1, 2 and 3 are slated to benefit once the Authority sanctions the demand.
 
 Singhal said that he had a very fruitful meeting with CEO Agarwal last month. “He immediately agreed to look into the matter. But since then, queries from the Authority’s finance department, like the ones related to detailed plans of their installation, has delayed the process. I say that the need is immediate and there’s no time to make plans and Excel sheets on the matterm as we are only reiterating a demand which has remained unattended since last year. Why weren’t all the plans and details sought earlier when we had raised the demand,” Singhal asked.
 
 “If the funds are not sanctioned at the earliest, we will face supply problems this year too. To begin the tendering process, which takes at least one month, I need immediate sanction of funds. After that, I can begin procuring the new transformers by March 15, and their installation would be completed by April,” he said.
 
