HYDERABAD: Your birth chart holds secrets not just about your future but your past life too. The astrochart also provides the much-needed peep into your previous life to help shape your present. With 'reverse' astrology becoming popular in Hyderabad, questions like “At what age did I die in my past life? What was my   in previous birth? Did any of my wishes in the earlier life remain unfulfilled?“ echo in   in the city.

 “Many youngsters are increasingly attracted to what has come to be known as 'reverse' astrology . The trend started as a curiosity a few years ago after some Telugu flicks, including Magadheera, focused on past life. It has picked up now after 'past life episodes' related to popular political and film personalities were posted on social media sites including YouTube,“ said astropsychologist  . According to Nagnath, who holds a doctoral degree in astro-psychology, there are 12 'bhavas' in Indian astrology and the 9th 'bhava' called   deals with the life of an individual in previous birth. While many astrologers look into the `foretelling' part of birth charts, only a few trained in 'bhavas' do scout the star or natal charts for a peep into the individual's previous life.
 
 A few days ago, Sai Harsha, a 22-year-old law student, `travelled' back in time to `under stand' that he was a rich spoilt man in his past life. “I had approached an astrologer to understand my previous birth after being addicted to videos on social media depicting the `past life' of popular film actors in their earlier birth. I was more interested to know what impact my past life would have in my present life,“ he said.
 
 Dr Nagnath explains that astrology has several dimensions and one of them is the `parampara' (cycles) of human birth. “By analysing these cycles, we can analyse the deeds of an individual in previous life. We can also peep into the past life emotions. The birth chart contains vestiges of one's past life and those with a thorough knowledge of astrology will only be able to decode them,“ he adds.
 
 Mohammad Raqeeb, assistant director, State Archives, said that for people who do not believe in previous birth, understanding the unconscious mind will help in overcoming several negative traits like aggression and anger. “Some believe in previous birth, others in the unconscious mind. In any case, unravelling the unconscious mind will benefit us,“ he said.
 
 Senior astrologer Ch Venkata Subbaiah points out that the astro chart of an individual is infinite though the person may be finite with a cycle of life and death. “The astro chart contains everything about the future and past. In simple terms, the unconscious mind possesses the remnants of previous birth,“ he explains.
 
