NAINITAL: With  , reports of   coming in from many parts of Uttarakhand are keeping the forest department on its toes. In the latest instance, more than 50 personnel of the forest department and fire tenders battled for six hours to control a blaze that broke out in   (CTR) on Tuesday.
 
  DVS Khati, principle chief conservator of forests, wildlife, Uttarakhand, said, “The forest fire in CTR started in the southern boundary of the reserve in Kalagarh range. The swift response of the forest department helped bring the fire under control.”
  
  The patrolling staff of the reserve raised an alarm after spotting the flames. Fire tenders and a team of forest staff rushed to the spot to prevent the blaze from spreading.
  
   , director of CTR, told TOI, “The fire was controlled in time and did not cause damage to wildlife or trees. The southern border of the reserve is porous as it is shared with Uttar Pradesh. A bunch of miscreants had lit up dry inflammable material in the forest which led to the fire. Strict instructions have been issued to keep tight vigil and prevent such activities.”
  
  Another fire that broke out in a forest in Nainital was brought under control before it could lead to much damage. An acre of Sher Ka Danda area was on fire on Monday night when local residents informed the authorities. A fire fighter was injured in the operation which lasted for more than six hours.
  
  TOI had earlier reported that the forest department has set up 1,238 crew stations, 40 master control rooms, 90 watch towers and over 4,000 fire-watchers on duty to deal with forest fire across the state.
  
  The inferno last year had gutted around 4,000 hectares of forests in the state. In December, the Uttarakhand high court had ordered that the state forest chief would be held responsible if the forest fire continues for more than 72 hours. The major triggering factor for last year’s fires was believed to be the ubiquitous chir pine tree found in almost all the hilly areas of the state. The fallen dry needles from these trees are highly inflammable making the forests increasingly vulnerable to fire either because of high temperatures or due to someone carelessly flicking a half-lit match or beedi in the woods.
