NEW DELHI: India had yet another field day at the World   Championships with high jumpers   and   winning a silver and bronze medal respectively. In the T42 event, Sharad recorded his career-best performance with a jump of 1.84m, just 0.02m short of USA's Sam Gwewe who took gold with a championship record. 

 India's one-two punch in this event was completed by a fine showing from Bhati whose final succesful jump was 1.77m. Both Indians were happy with their showing, if not over the moon.
 
 "It feels good but I thought I'd jump higher than this. I'd come here chasing a gold medal, but I'll have to make do with silver," Sharad said after his triumph.
 
 Bhati meanwhile, admitted that he as not quite happy with his performance. "My performance wasn't the greatest but a medal is a medal. So although I'm happy about it, I'm not completely satisfied with my own performance," he said.
 
 On a day when heavy rains caused temperature in London to touch 13 degree, both athletes acknowledged the impact of the weather on their performances. "As long as we are warmed up well, it's a beautiful weather to jump. The only reason we were having trouble was because we are one-legged jumpers and the ground becomes slippery due to rain. Otherwise, it was fine for us," Sharad said.
 
 "It's quite cold so the circulation in my left leg is quite sluggish. That makes it very stiff, and that makes things difficult. But nevertheless, I jumped 1.77m in this cold wearer, which is my best effort in this kind of climate," reckoned Bhati.
 
 With that, India have increased their medal tally to five. Earlier, Sundar Singh Gurjar opened India's account at the World Para Athletics Championships by clinching gold in the men's javelin throw event. Two days later, Amit Saroha added to the tally when he clinched silver medal in the club throw event in the F-51 category. And just a day ago, discus thrower Karamjyoti Dalal claimed a brone medal in the Women's F55 category.
 
 Wishes poured in on Twitter, with former India cricketer   leading the bunch. 
 
  
  
 Grewe had a 37-year-old world record in his sights, on a world record that's stood since 1980 - of 1.96m, and even though the American couldn't quite get past it, he finished with a highest of 1.86m, which also is a championships record. 
 
 India's Sharad had also won a silver medal during the Fazaa International IPC International Athletics Grand Prix earlier in March this year. He even won a gold medal in the men's high jump at the 2014 Asian Games in Incheon where he broke a 12-year Asian Games record by clearing a height of 1.80m in his F-42 category en route to reclaiming his World No. 1 position.
 
 Bhati on the other hand, clinched bronze at the Rio Paralympics last year. In the 2014 Asian Para Games in Incheon, (Korea), Bhati was also part of the Indian team where he managed to come fifth. Interestingly, in the same year he won a gold medal at the 2014 China Open Athletics Championship.
 
