MUMBAI: When finance minister   presented the budget proposals on Saturday, he did assure that he will try to minimise the deficit of Rs 4,511 crore by reducing avoidable expenditure and effective revenue recovery, but he was completely silent on the action plan.

 Senior bureaucrats were expecting Mungantiwar would present a strategy to reduce the debt burden, reduce cost of establishment and draft a new action plan for resource mobilisation. But as per the statement tabled by Mungantiwar in both houses of the state legislature, as on March 31, 2018, the   will be Rs 4.13 lakh crore against Rs 3.71 lakh crore on March 31, 2017. “It’s the state’s highest ever debt burden. Maharashtra has now achieved the dubious distinction of being state with the most debt, followed by Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal,” an official said.
 
 He said expenditure on salary will increase from Rs 75,749 crore to Rs 87,147 crore, interest on loans from Rs 28,830 crore to Rs 31,027 crore and pension expenditure from Rs 23,290 crore to Rs 25,567 crore. “Our debt burden is increasing steadily, but we do not have a plan to reduce it,’’ he said.
 
 The bureaucrat said it was expected that Mungantiwar will come out with an action plan to reduce the cost of establishment, currently 63%, wind up non-performing state-run enterprises, close unproductive schemes, plug loopholes in welfare schemes and above all draft a resource mobilisation plan. Further, in view of a large number of farmer suicides, a loan waiver scheme was anticipated. “It appears the government is reluctant to take hard decisions,” he said.
 
 When senior   leader Eknath Khadse was leader of the opposition prior to 2014, he was insisting on a white paper on the state’s economy in view of sudden spurt in debt burden. Khadse’s contention was there was nothing wrong in securing loans for developmental projects and welfare schemes, but it was the responsibility of the state government to explain to the people the reasons for increase in debt and how the funds were utilised. “Mungantiwar did present a white paper in April 2015, but it was a very weak document and did not give direction to improve state’s economy,’’ the official said.
 
 The bureaucrat said immediately after   took over as chief minister, at a convention of state government employees at Nashik he had expressed concern over the state’s deteriorating financial condition. Further, he had stated if hard decisions are not taken, his government will have to secure loans to pay employees’ salaries, but so far no critical measures have been taken to improve the situation.
 
 
