AHMEDABAD: All romantic notions about the rains and the monsoon evaporated for commuters on Thursday evening, when most had a harrowing time, stuck in traffic jams on waterlogged roads for hours and hours. The torrential downpours— which coincided with the evening rush hour— also threw rickshaws and cab services out of gear.

  The worst affected areas were those where the terrible traffic conditions were exacerbated by road constriction due to metro construction work, in the western city parts. 
 
 The snail’s pace of traffic meant misery for drenched motorcyclists and car users drove through pools of standing water terrified that their vehicles would sputter out during the crossing. 
 
 The city’s waterlogged underpasses had to be closed early in the evening and this forced more and more commuters on to the few crowded stretches on higher ground that were not waterlogged.
 
 Due to the water-logging around Ambawadi and CG Road, the area saw heavy traffic jams. “When my friend and I went from Prahladnagar to Ashram Road, it took us three hours while it normally takes 20 minutes. Going from the Shivranjani flyover to Keshavbaug took 45 minutes. Ambawadi circle to Panchvati took 30 minutes and from there to Ashram Road took a further 45 minutes. We had to take several detours but nothing really worked,” said Sridhar Nair, a professional, whose office is on Ashram Road.
 
 “I decided to keep the car at home and go by autorickshaw. However, traffic was terrible near CG Road. The rickshaw broke down and I had to walk till my destination on Ashram Road in the rain. It was havoc,” Mansi Sharma, a resident of Vastrapur.
 
 Javed Shaikh, a 53-year old government employee, had to walk from   Crossroads to  . “There was no auto available and no cabs were ready to ply due to the traffic jams. I started walking, hoping to get to the end of and flag down a vehicle, but it was the same scene everywhere — waterlogging and bumper-to-bumper traffic,” he said, adding that he had to make the walk with two stents in him.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The city reported two deaths from electrocution when two women from Ambawadi came in contact with a live wire due to waterlogging. The victims were identified as Shantaben Rathod, 39, and Ratan Maheshwari, 45, both residents of Dinubhai ni Chali in Ambawadi. 
 
  
 
 
 Sudhir Desai, DCP (traffic), said that city traffic police worked round the clock to smoothen traffic flow but bottlenecks caused by closed underpasses left no other option but to keep vehicles moving on arterial roads. City police officials said more than 1,500 personnel were pressed into traffic duty.
 
 
 
 
 According to Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, from 4pm to 7pm, Central Zone received 57mm of rainfall, followed by 55mm in West Zone, 51.5mm in North Zone and 51.5mm in new west zone. Four gates at Vasna Barrage were raised by 3 feet as 600 cusecs was released into the Narmada canal.
 
 
 
 
 Some take-away only restaurants were forced to restrict deliveries as most roads were severely waterlogged and jammed with traffic. "I just completed a delivery and the traffic and waterlogging is bad. While we deliver pizzas in Satellite, Bodakdev, Near Pakwan Circle and IIM, we could only fulfil orders in Vastrapur," said   Rathod, the owner of a pizzeria in Vastrapur.
 
 
 
 
 Services such as food delivery and radio cabs were severely hit by the downpour. "I tried booking a cab for my wife who works at Stadium. However, driver denied duty at first and in the second attempt, the pricing was Rs 400 from Stadium to Gota," said Krinal Mehta, a resident of Gota.
 
