KOCHI: The   – a quantitative tool used to measure the pedestrian environment within a geographic area – of Kochi, which dreams of become a smart city, is very poor, with only Marine Drive fulfilling the desired indicators. The rating is poor for all other major shopping and business areas in the central part of the city.

 According to a study conducted by national transportation planning and research centre (Natpac) in the central business district (CBD) of the corporation, Convent Road, Broadway, Chittoor Road, SA Road and Market Road have poor pedestrian walkways.
 
 The study, pedestrian-friendly urban transport system for Kochi, found that TD Road, Banerji Road, Durbar Hall Road, Hospital Road, MG Road, Rajaji Road and South Station Road were better for pedestrians.
 
 “The aim was to study the pedestrian movement pattern on major road corridors and assess the adequacy of existing pedestrian infrastructure in the city,” said Natpac director B G Sreedevi.
 
 She said that an extensive study was done to evaluate the walkability index and formulate schemes for hassle-free pedestrian movement. An analysis of the five major corridors, 16 minor roads and 21 intersections was done in the CBD area of the city.
 
 Numerous openings, uneven surfaces on footpaths, varying kerb heights, footpaths being divided by bus shelter and other obstructions like encroachment by street vendors, parked vehicles, dumping of construction materials, electric posts, telephone boxes, advertisements and banners were found in the pedestrian pathways.
 
 Since there is a shortage of facilities, pedestrians often step into traffic zone leading to pedestrian-vehicle conflict. This is seen most on Menaka-Shanmukham Road, High Court-Shanmukham Road, Kacheripady-Banerjee Road, Vyttila bypass towards Kundanoor and  .
 
 The study recommended that pedestrians must be given the shortest possible direct route to cross the street.
 
 Skywalks can be constructed connecting High Court jetty-Madhava Pharmacy Metro station, KSRTC boat jetty-ground Metro station-KSRTC bus stand, Vyttila Junction-Vyttila Mobility Hub, Kaloor Metro station-Kaloor private stand and Ernakulam north railway station-Ernakulam   station.
 
 Foot overbridges should be constructed at Menaka and Pallimukku. Guardrails should be set up to prevent indiscriminate crossing and to prevent spilling of pedestrians on to the traffic path.
 
  officials said that non-motorable traffic corridor is an important element in the planning of urban transport facility.
 
