NAGPUR: Every year, the festivals remain the same but ways of celebrating them keep evolving. With increasing awareness, the city is starting to bid goodbye to the aspects of celebrations that are either environmentally or socially harmful; just like deafening crackers are being replaced with plain diyas and   have found new place in artificial  . A ‘dry Holi’ seems to be the choice this season.

 “In our colony in Raj Nagar, Dalal compound, we’ll be playing  . We’ll refrain from using coloured water and only play with gulal. We’ll complete the festival by staying indoors in the evening and watching good movies,” says businessman Tejinder Singh Renu.
 
 For festivals like Holi, colonies and residential buildings usually have programmes carved out for all members to meet each other and celebrate the day in harmony. Every year, members of Pawanbhumi Layout, Somalwada, assemble at   ground, play Holi with just gulal, and conclude the gathering with a sumptuous offering of Chana Rasa, informs member Raju Nakhale.
 
 Members of ‘Amrit ki kheti’, Gorewada, have decided to make their own organic gulal by soaking Palas flowers in water and sun-drying them before making it into a powder. “We are 20 members in the group and we’ve planned this since Palas is also known to have medicinal benefits,” says Rupinder Kaur, a teacher by profession.
 
 Heading off to a farmhouse is also a popular choice for those who like to have a quick getaway, more so this year because of a long weekend. Members of Nagpur Spirits Round Table 258 will be gathering at a farmhouse 15 kms away from the city, and playing with dry gulal only, informs  .
 
 At Navratra apartments in Quetta colony, Holi dahan will be followed by karaoke, informs businessman Chetan Jasore. “We are also spreading awareness about safety of animals during the festival. No ladies are supposed to enter the kitchen since breakfast and lunch are arranged from outside. We’ll be using herbal gulal and not much water. We’ll also have bhajans,” he says.
 
 Members of marwadi samaj have a 100-year old ritual they follow every year. All the members assemble at one place. Some play dafli, some baaja and some tabla. “We are Brahmins hailing from Jaisalmer. Our programmes begin ten days before Holi. People of the community also visit each other. Krishna bhajan will be played along with Rajasthani folk singing, says Yuvraj Vyas, manager of a chemical company.
 
