NEW DELHI: A 28-year-old software engineer strangled his mother to death in an apartment in Dwarka last month for refusing him money to buy cocaine. The cops got on his trail after CCTV footage showed him leaving the apartment and followed him to Rishikesh, Haridwar, Mumbai, Chembur, Andheri and Patna as he tried to evade arrest. During this time, the suspect contacted friends for money through public phones or through LinkedIn messenger chats.

 Police traced  , the accused, to Patna and arrested him on Tuesday when he was boarding a train to a village near the Nepal border. A case of murder has been registered against him.
 
 Jha’s sister, who is a doctor in London, got alarmed when  , the mother, did not take her calls for three days. She alerted the neighbours, who informed the cops. Police broke open the door and found the decomposed body of the elderly woman, a former insurance company manager, on February 28.
 
 “CCTV footage from the apartment complex showed the son entering the building with a rope that we later found tied around the woman’s neck,” disclosed Surender Kumar, DCP (Southwest). “The accused’s sister also called us to say she suspected him of killing their mother.”
 
 Police went in Jha’s pursuit after friends told them that the IT executive had been calling them from different phones, requesting money. Investigation showed that the accused had driven to ISBT, withdrawn Rs 10,000 from his bank account and boarded a bus to Haridwar. By the time the cops reached Haridwar, Jha had left for Rishikesh. DCP Kumar said that one team started tracking Jha’s movements with the help of inputs given by his friends, while another team operated a LinkedIn account, through which they placed Jha in Mumbai and later in Patna.
 
 After his arrest, Jha told his interrogators that on February 24, while high on drugs, he had demanded money from his mother only to be rebuffed. When an argument broke out, he struck his mother’s head against the wall several times. He pulled her unconscious body to the bed and left her bleeding through the night. The next morning, he strangled her with a rope and fled from the house.
 
 It was later revealed that Nepal Police too had arrested Jha for drug peddling a few months ago. He had been bailed out, but had been re-arrested in Mumbai for the same offence. On both the occasions, his mother had put up the bail amount. Jha once worked as a senior manager with a Malaysian IT firm, but had lost his job due to his addiction.
 
 
