THIRUVANANTHAPURAM/THRISSUR: The crime branch will probe the death of a 19-year-old  , who committed suicide after he was allegedly   at Paravatty police station in Thrissur.

 The youth, Vinayak, committed suicide in his house on July 18, a day after he was detained by the police.
 
 The director-general of police, Loknath Behera, handed over the case to the crime branch on Saturday, based on a recommendation by inspector-general (Thrissur range) M R Ajithkumar.
 
 Vinayak’s father, too, had made a representation to the state police chief, seeking a detailed probe into the events that preceded his son’s death.
 
 After Vinayak’s death, senior police officer Sajan and civil police officer Sreejith were suspended from service.
 
 Meanwhile in Thrissur, musicians, writers, painters and poets assembled at   in a cultural offensive.
 
 They demanded appropriate action against police officers responsible for the youth’s death.
 
 Members of the alternative rock band, 'Oorali', spearheaded the protest and rendered songs as part of the protest.
 
 Artists formed separate groups and performed at different areas of the Maidan, attracting a sizable crowd. Painters in the group were seen painting pictures.
 
 “We will continue this collective protest till those responsible for Vinayaks’ death are given exemplary punishment. We are also demanding the system, particularly the police, to achieve the maturity to uphold the rights of the individual to present their body in the manner they would prefer,’’  , leader of 'Oorali', said.
 
 He added that the group would release a documentary based on Saturday’s protest.
 
 Participating in the offensive, writer   said those wielding power, instead of oppressing the youth, should understand why they were trying to present themselves differently.
 
 She referred to a recent statement by Behara, asking the police not to assume the role of moral police, and cutting the hair of people was not their job.
 
 “The DGP had to wait till the death of a dalit youth to make such a statement,’’ she said.
 
 Vinayak was taken into custody on July 17, while he and a friend, Sharath, were talking a girl known to them at Manikunnatha near Mullassery in the district.
 
 The youngsters were tortured in police custody before they were released the same day, and Vinayak was found hanging at his house the next day.
 
 Sharath later said that the police had ordered them to own up chain-snatching incidents in the area and also to cut the hair of Vinayak.
 
