GUWAHATI: Chief minister  's proposal to Union home minister Rajnath Singh for holding tripartite talks on ST status to six communities of   have evoked lukewarm response from the organizations representing the ethnic groups. 

 On Sunday, Sonowal had a 2-hour long discussion with Singh in New Delhi. The chief minister raised several 'critical' issues pertaining to the state, including the demand from six communities to grant ST status to them. Sonowal requested the home minister to hold tripartite talks at the political level with leaders of the organisations representing these communities.
 
 The six communities demanding ST status are Koch Rajbongshis, Tai Ahoms, Morans, Motoks, Chutias and adivasis. At present, they are in the OBC category. Granting ST status to the these communities is one of the electoral promises of the BJP government at the Centre and the state.
 
 "At a time when the government has promised to prepare modalities for granting ST status, this proposal for tripartite talk is nothing but delaying tactics," said All Tai Ahom Students' Union (Atasu) president Litul Buragohain. He termed the proposed tripartite talks as a political conspiracy to deprive the communities from getting ST status.
 
 He added, " , in 15 years of its rule, just dragged its feet on our demand. Now, BJP is also doing the same. During our earlier meetings with home ministry officials, we were promised that modalities for the ST status will be finalized soon. But that did not happen." 
 
 All Koch Rajbonshi Students' Union (AKRSU) president Hitesh Barman, however, said the proposed talks should not be just 'talks for talks' sake. "We had taken part in several discussions in the past. We no longer want the tripartite talks to be just another exercise. There has to be a positive outcome," he added. 
 
 AKRSU activists will stage a demonstration in several districts demanding ST status and creation of Kamatapur state on Tuesday.
 
 "Prime Minister   had promised to fulfill our ST demand when he campaigned for the Lok Sabha polls. Till today, this demand has not been fulfilled. Today, we are being forced to think that the ST issue was only for political gains," said Barman. 
 
 According to BJP insiders, the ST status demand has become a tricky issue for the state government with several tribal organizations already opposing the demand. 
 
