NEW DELHI: There are only four statisticians in the   ( ) who handle crucial industrial output data keenly awaited by financial markets and economists every month.

 A government panel, which recommended overhauling the key data series, had strongly recommended immediate strengthening of the   unit of CSO as well as statistical units in the administrative agencies providing factory data.
 
 The working group submitted its report in 2014 and the government unveiled the changes to the base year to 2011-12 from 2004-05 and revamped the product mix of the index of industrial production (IIP) on Friday.
 
 “The management and operations of IIP-related activities in the IIP unit of CSO are vested with only four statistical personnel at present.
 
 The resource requirements for these activities are often undermined,” the report said.
 
 It said the unit had to carry out various ancillary activities in relation with mainstream industrial statistics, apart from service sector statistics and statistics of international trade. “The existing manpower of the IIP unit is highly insufficient to cope with the entire range of activities described above,” the report said.
 
 Government departments have been grappling with shortage of trained statisticians and experts say the situation is worrying.
 
 “The   is larger and more complex now but manpower has not changed in the last 30 years. The strength is the same in 2017 as in the late 80s,”  , former chief statistician and chairman of the   told TOI.
 
 “It is difficult to retain good statisticians and the quality of those entering the   has declined,” said Sen. He said good statisticians are lapped up by financial services firms or prefer to go abroad.
 
 He said there was an urgent need to overhaul the way statistics is taught at universities and called for a relook at the incentive structure to attract top notch statisticians for government duties.
 
 Economists say key macroeconomic indicators need to be revised at a faster pace to reflect changes in the economy.
 
 They point out that the revision to IIP and the wholesale price index unveiled on Friday is already six years late and work has to start immediately to shift to a new base year.
 
 The report suggests the government will have to tackle the resource crunch on a war footing to get reliable and credible statistics.
 
