A guy who once gorged on twenty-two chapatis a day is now a two time   winner and a two time Mr  , besides having many other accolades to his credit. Khemendra suffered a severe knee injury in 2015 but instead of deterring him, the injury only fuelled his journey towards being fitter. Now, he not only has washboard abs but invincible   too. We got him to share his diet and workout that helped him sculpt his dream body. 

 
 Khemendra Singh Chaudhary 
 
 
 110 kilos
 
 
 : 30 kilos
 
 
 6'1
 
 
  I have been into gymming since 2009 but the turning point came in 2015. Around the beginning of the year, I met with an accident while doing a squat with 180 kilo weight. It gave me a severe knee injury. So, I had to leave gymming for almost a year. I got back to it with a fresh start in 2016 and the same year in March, I won Fitness Model Delhi. It inspired me and got me back on track and much ahead.
 
 
  4 egg yolks, 6 egg whites, 2 brown bread, 1 banana and protein supplement
 
 
  Salads, which included broccoli, cucumber, onion and tofu, and protein supplement
 
 
  10 egg whites, 4 brown bread and protein supplement
  
 
 16 litres a day
 
 
  Popcorn, nutri-choice biscuits, protein chocolates
 
 
 6 months
 
 
  4 sets of the following with increasing weights from 17.5 to 30 kilos and 12, 10, 8 ad 6 repetitions, decreasing with each successive set:
 Standing dumbbells 
 Incline dumbbells 
 EZ-bar curls
 
 2 sets of the following with increasing weights between 17.5 and 30 kilos and 12 and 10 repetitions, decreasing with each successive set:
 Reverse curl 
 Standing hammer curl
 
 
  Standing barbell curl
 
 My bicep size increased from 13 inches to 19 inches.
 
 
  I always indulged in whole wheat spaghetti pasta with capsicum, broccoli, onion, beans and cooked in olive oil. 
 
 
  Transformation doesn’t happen in a day. It is slow and steady and step by step. You need to toil for it and work hard over a long period of time.
 
  
  
 
  
 Whenever I look at myself in the mirror, I see my flaws and the body areas that need more toning. The desire to tone them keeps me driven.
 
  
 I have achieved my body with a lot of hard work and clean eating. When one takes the steroid shortcut, his body suffers as it may develop bad spots and pimples. I have followed the organic way and 10 years down the line, I see myself as fitter version of what I am right now.
 
 
 Before I got into fitness, I used to have 22 chapatis a day. I was overweight. The biggest lifestyle modification was made by me in cutting down majorly on carbs and junk food. Also, I increased my water intake and now I drink 16 litres of water a day.
 
 
 When I injured my knee in 2015. Staying off exercise for so long was really hard. 
 
 
 Never give up. Toning your body takes efforts, months and years. You have to be determined to keep going.
 
 
