21-year-old   from   has been selected in the Indian National Futsal team, which is currently participating in the AMF Intercontinental Cup – one of the sports' premier tournaments – in Barcelona.

 Over the years, sportspersons like Robin Singh, Varun Singh Bhati and Parvinder Awana have done Noida proud in the international arena. Now, 21-year-old Anupam Vishwakarma from Greater Noida is set to join the ranks of international sportspersons from the city. The Delta-1 resident has been selected in the Indian National Futsal team, which is participating in the ongoing AMF Intercontinental Cup – one of the sports' premier tournaments – in Barcelona. Before leaving for Barcelona on Monday, Anupam spoke to NT about his expectations from the cup, playing alongside legends, and the futsal scene in Noida.
 
  Anupam has lived in Greater Noida for 15 years, but his family hails from a village in Meerut, where he was born. "I was quite young when we moved to Greater Noida. My grandparents still live in Meerut, and I visit them almost every week, or whenever practice permits. Meerut is my hometown, so it's special but Greater Noida is home now," he tells us. Anupam's father Rajendra Prasad works in Gujarat while his mother and brother stay with him in Noida. It was his elder brother Anurag who introduced him to the sport of futsal as a kid. He says, "My brother used to play futsal, and that's how I started playing as well. I was in class VII then. Later on, he gave up futsal due to studies but I have continued." Anupam did his schooling from Somerville School, Greater Noida and is currently pursuing BBA from Sharda University.
 
  Although Anupam has played futsal at the national level on various platforms, like the Premier Futsal League and the Senior National Championships, this will be the 21-year-old's first international exposure. Anupam says, "It's a matter of great honour and big exposure. As a team, we will want to put forward our best show. If we can finish with a good placing in the final standing, we will consider the experience a positive one. I would want to play particularly well because I know that players, managers, and scouts from international clubs will be there. If anyone likes my game, it can open the doors for me to play in Europe or  , which is every futsal player's dream."
 
  
  Futsal player Anupam Vishwakarma practising at Shaheed Vijay Singh Pathik Sports Complex, Greater Noida (BCCL/ Samik Sen)
 
  
  
 
  Futsal is a variation of football played indoors, usually on a hard court surface and has five players on each side. Even as football’s popularity continues to increase in India, its cousin futsal does not enjoy the same fortune. However, Anupam is optimistic about the game's popularity among the masses. "Popularity of the game has increased, now that there is a professional league in place. Matches are televised and international stars visit India to promote them. All that helps," he says, adding, "NCR has a great futsal scene. There are regular tournaments and matches which keep the game afloat. Even a city like Greater Noida has a dedicated futsal club now." The club Anupam talks about is the one he plays for – Young Cannons – who practice daily at the city's Shaheed Vijay Singh Pathik Sports Complex. "Having a stable team that plays and trains together round the year helps in developing the game. You tend to develop a rapport with your teammates and learn how to play in all conditions and all kinds of weather. Regular practice is essential for improvement, and thankfully, in Noida, we are able to do that," says Anupam.
 
  
  
 
  In Barcelona, he will be facing off against some of the top names in world futsal as heavyweights like Brazil, Colombia and Catalonia will participate in the tournament. "As of now, we aren’t aware of who all are participating but we are expecting to see players like Falcao there. Playing against them would be a challenge as well as a great opportunity to learn. It’s not every day that you get to compete against the best players in your sport." However, Anupam is no stranger to playing against or alongside legends. He played for Chennai in the 2016 edition of the Premier Futsal League, which also saw the participation of players, like   and Falcao. He recounts, "I meet these players, played and trained with them. Since I was named man of the match once, they know me by my name, which is such a surreal feeling.I mean they are legends. I hope to see them in Barcelona and wish they will recognize me from my previous achievements."
 
 
