BENGALURU: Banaswadi police in east Bengaluru on Wednesday arrested two men for allegedly molesting a 27-year old woman on the night of January 13/14.

 She said she met the two men, her ‘party friends’, at a   on Brigade Road that night and they later dropped her to her former residence in Kammanahalli, east Bengaluru around 2am. 
 
 “Later, on January 14 evening, I noticed bruises and wounds on my body and I suspect the two men molested me,” she said in her police complaint filed on January 15.
 
 The suspects are Ricky alias Thimmanna Uthappa and Ayub alias Ayub Khan. Ricky is an engineer working with a private company while Ayub, a Yemeni, has a BCA degree and is currently works for a private company.
 
 Police booked the accused under Indian Penal Code Sections 354 ( ) and 273 (sale of noxious food or drink).
 
 According to police, the complainant said she was sedated at the pub and that’s why they booked the accused under section 273 too.
 
 Investigation revealed that the two men met her in the pub around 10pm. Earlier in the day, the complainant, who had recently relocated from Kammanahalli to JP Nagar in south Bengaluru, had asked another friend to join her. “Since many declined her invitation, she decided to go alone and booked a cab,” police said.
 
 The cab arrived at 9pm outside her house and the driver called her on her mobile. “The driver had to make four calls before she answered. She told the driver she wanted to cancel the trip,” sources said.
 
 She is then said to have called Ricky, asking him to join for a drink. “Ricky and Ayub joined her. The complainant had three shots of tequila and she lost control,” police said.
 
 Around 12.30am, the two men held her by her arms and walked out of the pub and got into Ricky’s Hyundai i10. “They remembered her Kammanahalli PG address and didn’t know that she had shifted to JP Nagar. The three persons reached the Kammanahalli PG around 1.30am,” police said.
 
 The PG owner and other occupants refused to take her inside, but the men convinced the women to let her rest there for the night and promised to pick her up the next morning. “The men picked her up the next morning (January 14) and dropped her to her JP Nagar residence,” police said.
 
 The complainant said she felt uneasy when she woke up that evening and found there were physical wounds on her body. “The next morning (January 15), first I went to Banashankari police and they directed me to file a complaint with Banaswadi police,” she told investigating officials.
 
 
 
 
 Additional commissioner of police Hemanth Nimbalkar said, "We’re going through video footage taken from the pub. If we find evidence of other men, including pub employees, molesting her, we’ll arrest them."
 
