In Gurgaon, if you go for a run on any Sunday morning, you might find yourself taking part in a marathon inadvertently. There are just so many of them in the city every week. People say that unless you take part in a long-distance run, you don't truly feel like a Gurgaon resident. But if every other resident is running marathons, what does the hardcore runner do? The answer is, he/she raises the bar even higher, by going for tougher, more intense challenges like the Ironman Triathlon and ultra-marathons. Runners and trainers in the city say that there has been a substantial rise in the number of   preparing for ultra-marathons and intensive triathlons like the Ironman Challenge. We take a look at the reasons behind this growing fad of a large number of Gurgaon runners graduating from marathons to tougher and bigger challenges.

  
 Runners and coaches from the city estimate that close to a dozen people are training to participate in the Ironman Challenge later this year. Considering only 60-odd Indians have participated in the Ironman so far, this is a substantial number. Add to it the number of people preparing for one of the several ultra-marathon events and you get a clearer picture of the fad. What is most interesting, is that over half of these people are first-timers.
 
  Manisha Khunger, a swim coach who has trained successful Ironman athletes like Abhishek Mishra and Nagender Singh, says, "The rise is for everyone to see. I would say that since 2015, Gurgaon has seen a 200% rise in people willing to train for and participate in triathlons like the Ironman Challenge. I get at least 10 enquiries a month from across the country, and over half of them are from Gurgaon. Even right now, I am training six people from the city who are bidding to participate in the Ironman event in December." The city’s first Ironman, Abhishek Mishra, says that he is also training two people right now for triathlon events, mostly by guiding them through their preparation process. "I get a lot of queries, many of them from Gurgaon, but I don’t have time to train large batches because then people don’t get individual attention and I have my own training to consider, too," he says.
 
  
 Those who know Gurgaon's running culture say that the reason for this sudden proliferation is an increased exposure to such events, as a number of athletes from Gurgaon have excelled in them over the last two years. Additionally, when runners from Gurgaon travel to other countries, they see these events, which serves as motivation for them. 
 
   , an ultramarathoner and running coach, tells us, "I am training three people for Ironman and one for ultra-marathon currently. It’s an intensive training schedule and we meet five days a week every morning. Even for experienced runners, it takes at least six months to build stamina and endurance to a level that you can simply think about competing at an event of that level. But people from Gurgaon are willing to do that. It’s a city where people travel a lot. They go out, meet other runners from other countries and see what kind of races and events they are participating in and that gives them a goal too."
 
  
  
 
 
  MG Road resident Adil Nargolwala already has finished over a 100 marathons and half-marathons in the last few years, creating a national record in the process. Even he has set his sights on the Ironman now. "When you see the people you train with and run with on a regular basis completing these challenges, you think to yourself, 'If he can do it, why can’t I?' That is the biggest motivation. You have had people from the city finishing several Ironman triathlons and that gives you an exposure to it as well."
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 The first-timers who are attempting these intense challenges say, that in Gurgaon, since everyone is running marathons, you need to take on a newer and bigger challenge in order to stand out. Phase V resident  , who works as a chartered accountant, is training for the Ironman Challenge, which will take place in Malaysia later this year. 
 
  
  Romilla Pundir, Sachin Arora,   and Gaurav Katyal train with their running coach Shashank Pundir in Gurgaon
 
 
  Talking about why he chose to train for the Ironman, he says, "In Gurgaon, if you are simply running a marathon or cycling, it is not a big deal anymore. Everyone is doing it. In order to stand out, you need to do something different. That is why I decided to go for the Ironman Challenge. I have been training for almost a month now and have five more months to go."
 
  Neetin Verma, who lives in Sector 50 and is training for the same Ironman, says, "For me, it was the natural progression of what I have been doing for a few years now. I have been running half and full marathons for three years and was looking for a new challenge. I have always been into sports and used to be a national boxing champion in school. So this was one more thing to try for me. Plus being in Gurgaon, you get exposed to such things more easily because a lot of the people from the city are already into such events."
 
  Romilla Pundir, who is preparing for the Bhati Mines Ultra, an 80-km ultra-marathon on challenging terrain, says, "The motivation is setting a challenge for yourself and living up to it. I have already completed a 50km ultra-marathon, so this year, I want to take it to 80km on one of the most difficult terrains - the Bhati Mines. I just want to experience how it feels after pushing your mind and body to the next level and the feeling you get after finishing such a tough and prestigious race."
 
  
 However, experienced runners and trainers say that several Gurgaonwallahs also show over-eagerness to compete in these events and many of them are willing to do so without the adequate training.
 
  Abhishek Mishra, the first person from the city to finish Ironman and  , tells us, "There are many who want to finish Ironman merely for the sake of it, because there is name and prestige associated with it. While there is nothing wrong with it, people must understand that they need to go slow and gradually build up their endurance levels for such an event. Otherwise, the risk of injury is quite high. I have had people who simply finish one or two 10km events, then ask if they can register for Ironman. It doesn't work like that." Manisha Khunger adds, "People want a quick fix, some sort of a shortcut. The eagerness is sometimes good as it propels you to achieve targets quickly, but I have seen trainees who try to attempt a half-Ironman after only a month of training. That sort of over-eagerness is harmful."
 
 
 
