MUMBAI: The state excise department has advised chief minister   against the use of   manufactured in the state.

 The excise department earns the state an annual revenue of Rs 20,000 crore and has warned that making holograms mandatory may give an “impetus to a parallel economy“.
 
 In a presentation to Fadnavis, the department pointed out that the inherent challenge of using holograms is that multiple and constantly evolving technologies are available making it difficult for the department to assess suitability.
 
 “It is highly susceptible to counterfeiting. A hologram is a barcode, which costs as less as 30 paise to manufacture. In a majority of northern states such as Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand, UP it has only helped encourage a parallel economy ,“ said a source.
 
 The presentation made to the chief minister pointed out that it is very difficult to make out a counterfeit by the naked eye. This means the department would require costly instruments making the whole project vendor driven. Sources said the state manufactures 450 crore bottles annually and given its staff strength, it is impossible for the department to monitor every bottle. A customer who is the end receiver of the product would not purchase any such equipment and so would not know whether the hologram is genuine or fake. “There are already fake bottling units where unless one is a connoisseur it is difficult to distinguish between genuine and adulterated liquor.With a hologram, a customer would actually believe the product to be genuine,“ said sources.
 
 The department also pointed out that 40% of liquor is consumed in permit rooms where a hologram is of no use. A better way to prevent adulterationis through the use of supply-chain management software. Last year, Fadnavis cancelled a fiveyear Rs 1,000 crore contract as the tender conditions were not proper. Recently, an activist filed a complaint with the anti-corruption bureau to investigate the cancellation of the tender.
 
 The department, however, has told Fadnavis that if the state is keen on having holograms then the project must be given only to the Indian Security Press, Nashik.
 
