COIMBATORE:   Commission for Women (NCW) on Wednesday instructed the superintendent of police (SP), Tirupur, to initiate an inquiry against two police officers in that district for allegedly framing a woman who was charged for abetment of suicide and abusing a man from the dalit community. 

 Speaking to the media after she held the Mahila Jan Sunwai (public hearing for women) in Coimbatore, NCW member Rekha Sharma said she has instructed the Tirupur SP to conduct an inquiry against two officers for their inefficiency in solving cases. "They are mid-level officers and we found that they have not carried out their duty properly while investigating a case," said Sharma responding to a question from TOI. 
 
 According to sources in the police, a case was filed against a woman about a year ago charging her with abetment of suicide. She was booked under the   (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. A senior police officer said, "The police had booked a false against the man (who committed suicide) for robbery. The woman abused the man, who was her neighbour, and following this he committed suicide. Police filed a case against the woman."
 
 Rekha Sharma has asked Tirupur superintendent of police S Uma to conduct an inquiry against the officers. She said the Coimbatore police have been unresponsive to their letters seeking development in cases. "We give seven to 15 days to respond to our letters. But we seldom receive responses from the Coimbatore police. But when we visited Coimbatore we saw that the police have solved most of the cases," said Sharma.
 
 On Wednesday, NCW solved 90% of the unsolved cases. "There were a total of 40 cases in the city that were pending. About 10% cases are still pending and we have given a week to a month to the police to solve them," said Sharma. She added that most of the cases are from the district police. Across the country, a total of 33,000 unsolved cases that has the NCWs intervention are pending. "Most cases are from Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Bihar and Haryana," she said.
 
 Rekha Sharma also directed the district police to relook the charges framed against a man charged with domestic violence. 
 
 An officer of the district police said, "We will look into the matter once we receive a complaint from the victim. We cannot file another FIR in the same case."
 
 
