KUNDA (PRATAPGARH): The only posters visible on way to Benti Fort, a princely estate located 6km from the Lucknow-Allahabad highway, are those of one candidate. On scouting closely, you might also find handbills of the same leader. Pictures of   alias  , the scion of the princely estate and an independent candidate from  , find place next to pictures of lord Hanuman and goddess Durga.

 The heirs of scores of rajwadas might have faded into oblivion, but Raja Bhaiyya remains one of the most popular crowd-pullers in Uttar Pradesh. On Thursday, the ‘Raja’ was asking voters to come out in large numbers. The five-time independent MLA is trying to ensure that he breaks his own record.
 
 In 2012, Raja Bhaiyya emerged as the most popular MLA by winning with the highest margin (88,255 votes of 1.64 lakh cast) in Uttar Pradesh. Deposits of all the other candidates in fray (eight in number) were forfeited.
 
 “As soon as Raja comes to know about anybody’s problem, he sends a representatives and gets the problem fixed. We do not welcome other candidates in Benti though they are free to campaign in other localities in Kunda,” said Sanjay Kumar, a voter from Benti, shouting Raja’s name as he stepped out after casting vote at the local primary school.
 
 Around 12pm, Raja arrived at the polling station along with his mother Manjul Raje (71) and daughter Raghvi Singh (18), who voted for the first time, in a luxury SUV worth over Rs 1 crore.
 
 Forging an instant connect with the villagers, Raja said he had worked hard on improving basic infrastructure during his tenure. 
 
 “Roads, water and electricity supply, better drainage and irrigation facilities have been my work areas. People should spend more time in Benti and interact with local residents to understand why I am voted with big margins. Outsiders have a perception about me which is far from reality,” said Raja. He was confident that the SP and Congress coalition will form the government with majority.
 
 As the crowd began swelling, Raja signalled a villager to turn his bike in the opposite direction. Abandoning his SUV, Raja hopped on the motorcycle to ride pillion up to Benti Fort. 
 
 The village folks kept touching their Raja’s feet, though it was the king who needed their blessings. 
 
