NEW DELHI: A plan to redevelop the iconic   was conceived in 2006 and the work was to be over by this March. However, in reality,   ( ) is yet to start the project. 

 The heritage building was declared dangerous in 2007, and NDMC asked the shopkeepers to vacate the premises. But 28 shopkeepers went to the high   against the eviction and the case dragged on till 2013 when the Supreme Court ruled in favour of NDMC. 
 
 Although NDMC had appointed a consultant to prepare a detailed plan, a   is yet to be floated and the deadline has been shifted again. 
 
 The council plans to develop a museum, which will have artefacts and vintage photographs to showcase Delhi’s history along with an art gallery and a cafeteria. The periphery of the market will be beautified with gardens and artwork while the nearby shops will undergo renovation.
 
 NDMC also plans to introduce pelican crossings — a crossing with traffic lights operated by pedestrians — because due to the old architectural pattern of area, subways are not a viable option. However, everything has remained on paper. 
 
 Shopkeepers claim that the octagonal building now wears a deserted look. The plasters are flaking off and a few branches of a peepal tree and shrubs have grown on its walls.
 
 “There was a legal dispute that went in favour of NDMC. We were hoping that NDMC would initiate the redevelopment work and finish it on priority but even years later the condition is still the same. There has been no maintenance and the building, which was a major tourist attraction in central Delhi, has lost its charm. Shopkeepers have also lost their customers,” said Narayan Shamnani, president of Gole Market Merchants Association.
 
 “Several civic issues have cropped up due to lack of maintenance — mounds of garbage and malba are dumped on the premises, the drainage system is in bad shape and NDMC does nothing to keep the area clean,” he added. If NDMC is planning to build a museum, it also needs to develop a dedicated parking spot as the traffic is heavy in the area, Shamnani said.
 
 According to NDMC officials, once cost estimation is approved by the Council, NDMC’s apex body, a tender will be floated. “The plans are ready and have been approved. However, the tender will take some more time as no decision has been reached on the project cost yet,” said a senior official.
 
