AURANGABAD: Taps in the households of water starved Satara, Devali will soon be of some use to the residents there. The civic body has initiated a process of laying a dedicated pipeline connecting these localities to the Nakashtrawadi water treatment plant.

 The   (AMC) is also preparing a proposal for laying an internal network of pipelines in the area in collaboration with a private engineering college. The project cost in estimated at about Rs150 crore. 
 
 Sartaj Singh Chahel, the executive engineer in the AMC told TOI on Monday, “ The   in Aurangabad and some of experts in the field of water management are working on the project on behalf of the civic body. The AMC will send the proposal to the state government and seek special funds for these villages that have recently been merged into the municipal corporation limits,” he said.
 
 The area was not covered under the water distribution project hence municipal authorities were planning a separate water scheme for the area. 
 
 Umesh J Kahalekar, a member of the civic body’s expert committee for water said it is a preliminary proposal wherein experts would study geographic conditions, local populations and other parameters to help them ascertain the demand for water, the requirement of the elevated water reservoirs (ESRs), the thickness of main pipeline and other related technical issues. 
 
 More than 60,000 residents in the villages have been facing severe water crisis for quite long as there in no proper system for water. Earlier when the area was under the erstwhile Satara-Devlai municipal council, residents used to collect water from the two or three public wells nearby but after the area developed, water became scarce. 
 
 Subsequently, when the area came under the umbrella of the civic body, authorities deployed tankers to improve the situation but with no network of internal pipelines laid in the locality, water tankers are inadequate. Nearly 80% of the people in the villagers buy water from private suppliers. 
 
 As of now the municipal body is supplying water through tankers but they are catering to less than 1,000 residents because most residents prefer tankers from private agencies as they are cheaper compared to the civic body-run supply system. 
 
