NEW DELHI: As violence broke out in the   following the killing of  's aide and   terrorist  , officials said that the situation was under control, but added that the security forces were “bracing for Sunday“, which they said would be a “tough day“ for them.

 With Sabzar's body likely to be buried on Sunday , also the first day of Ramzan, most of the existing reinforcements in the Valley have already been mobilised to south Kashmir, particularly Tral, the native place of Bhat.
 
 The security forces are better equipped to handle stone-pelters this time, as compared to last year, when, during protests in the wake of Burhan Wani's killing, a large number of civilians received injuries in their eyes and on their faces due to the use of pellet guns by the CRPF. CRPF director general Rajeev Rai Bhatnagar told TOI that “deflectors have already been attached in most of the pellet guns being used by personnel in the Valley“.The deflectors, an attachment on the muzzle end, ensure that pellets do not hit the upper body of protesters.
 
 Protests were anticipated by security forces as the Army, the CRPF and J&K police killed Sabzar and his aide Faizan Muzaffar Bhat during a joint operation on Saturday. They, sources said, were tracked by military and J&K police intelligence for several days, and the operation was carried out on specific information.
 
 Faizan, sources said, had joined Hizbul Mujahideen last year, after he snatched an INSAS rifle from an ASI of the CRPF's 185th battalion in Tral. Sources said the same INSAS rifle was recove red after the encounter on Saturday.
 
 There are about 50 battalions (around 50,000 men) of the CRPF posted in the Kashmir Valley for law and order management, along with J&K police, while another 60 companies (7,000 men) or so will join them by June 15 for security arrangements for the Amarnath Yatra.
 
 MHA officials said that if the situation deteriorated, more troops could be rushed in from other regions. “As of now, there is enough presence of security personnel in the Valley," said a senior officer.
 
 The ministry of home af fairs is monitoring the situation closely . Officials said measures were being taken to make sure the violence didn't spiral like it did last year, after Wani's killing.
 
 In Saturday's stone-pelting, a CRPF assistant commandant,  , received head injury in Qazigund, Anantnag, but he was reported to be out of danger.
 
 
