ROME: Timeline of  's career after the Italian legend confirmed his retirement on Monday:

 
 : Totti born in Rome.
 
 
 : Joins Lodigniani.
 
 
  Lodigniani reach agreement to sell 13-year-old Totti to Lazio.
 
 
 : Roma youth team boss   convinces Totti's parents to opt for Roma.
 
 
  called into Roma's senior squad by coach Vujadin Boskov.
 
 
 : makes Serie A debut at 16 years old, coming off bench in 2-0 win away to Brescia.
 
 
 under  , makes full Roma debut in Italian Cup game against Sampdoria.
 
 
  makes full Serie A debut in 1-0 home loss to Sampdoria.
 
 
 : scores maiden Serie A goal in 1-1 draw with Foggia.
 
 
 : finishes full maiden Serie A season with 21 appearances and four goals.
 
 
  scores first European goal in 4-0 UEFA Cup win against Eendracht Aalst.
 
 
 : aged 22, takes captain's armband from Brazil defender Aldair to become Serie A's youngest ever captain.
 
 
 Totti named Serie A Young Footballer of the Year.
 
 
 : voted Serie A Italian Footballer of the Year and Serie A's Footballer of the year.
 
 
 : scores two goals and an assist, then a magical 'cucchiaio' (spoon) goal over Netherlands 'keeper Edwin van der Sar in semi-final penalty shoot-out win. Italy lose to France in final, but Totti voted man of the match.
 
 
 : requiring a win against Parma on final day of season, Totti scores in a 3-1 victory that secured Roma's first Serie A title since 1983.
 
 
  voted Serie A Italian Footballer of the Year.
 
 
 : Scores maiden Serie A hat-trick in 3-2 win at Brescia.
 
 
  on World Cup debut playing as a playmaker under Giovanni Trapattoni, faces criticism for missing several chances and being sent off as Italy crash to South Korea in second round.
 
 
 : wins second Serie A Footballer of the Year award.
 
 
  scores personal best of 20 league goals, including his 100th Serie A goal,   finish runners-up to AC Milan.
 
 
  starts in ominous fashion, spitting at Denmark's Christian Poulsen and earning a three-game ban which ends his tournament. Italy crash out in first round.
 
 
 : breaks shin-bone in league game with Empoli.
 
 
  returns to action as substitute in 3-1 Cup final loss to Inter.
 
 
 : overcomes having to play with metal plates in ankle to make Italy's World Cup squad. Makes four assists and scores extra-time penalty in last-16 win over Australia as Italy make final. Substituted on 61 minutes, kisses World Cup trophy after Italy's penalty shoot-out win over France.
 
 
  scores personal best 26 Serie A goals to win 'Capocannnoniere' award.
 
 
 : Roma finish runners-up in Serie A, but win Italian Cup in which Totti scores within 50 seconds of 6-2 first leg win over Inter.
 
 
  named Serie A Italian footballer of the year for fifth time.
 
 
  marks 500th overall appearance for Roma by scoring penalty in 2-0 league win over Napoli.
 
 
 : ruled out for four months with anterior cruciate ligament injury but Roma win Italian Cup with victory over Inter.
 
 
 : marks 400th Serie A appearance by scoring in 1-1 draw at Bologna.
 
 
  scores 175th Serie A goal in a 3-2 home win over Lecce to overtake Amedeo Amadei as Roma's all-time highest goalscorer.
 
 
 : sent off in Italian Cup final for kicking Inter Milan striker Mario Balotelli on way to defeat.
 
 
 : marks 500th Serie A appearance with both goals in 2-2 draw with Catania.
 
 
 : scores 225th goal, against Genoa, to become Serie A's joint second-top scorer alongside Gunnar Nordahl.
 
 
 : overtakes Nordahl with 226th Serie A goal, against Parma.
 
 
 : signs new contract, until June 2016.
 
 
 : at 38 and three days old, becomes oldest player to score in Champions League group stage with the equaliser, his 300th career goal, in 1-1 draw at Manchester City.
 
 
 : extends record to 38 years and 59 days with free-kick goal in 1-1 draw with CSKA Moscow.
 
 
 : hits 300th career goal in 2-2 draw with Sassuolo.
 
 
 : criticises coach Luciano Spalletti for lack of playing time and "showing a lack of respect".
 
 
  comes off bench to score late brace and secure a 2-1 win over Torino. Overtakes Silvio Piola as oldest player to score two goals in a single Serie A match, at 39 years, 6 months and 23 days.
 
 : marks 600th Roma appearance by coming off bench to set up final goal in 3-0 win over Chievo.
 
 
 : finishes season with only 13 league appearances, but signs one-year contract extension, promising to quit at end of season.
 
 
  plays against Sampdoria to equal Paolo Maldini's record of playing 25 seasons in Serie A.
 
 
 : scores penalty in 3-1 defeat to Torino, his 250th Serie A goal, two days shy of 40th birthday.
 
 
 : makes 100th European appearance in 3-3 draw with Austria Vienna.
 
 
  with 615th Serie A appearance, equals Inter's Javier Zanetti as joint third-highest appearance holder of all time in 1-1 draw with Atalanta.
 
 
  makes 619th and final Serie A appearance as substitute in 3-2 win over Genoa.
 
 
  confirms retirement from playing to take a director's role at Roma.
 
 
