RANCHI: There is something about native pitches that touring teams have come to distrust.   is no exception. After having weathered two tough surfaces -in Pune and Bengaluru -the Australian captain is simply not prepared to accept that the one being prepared here for the third Test will behave much better.

 Smith reckons the top soil will hold for the first two days because the pitch has been watered well, but will crumble quickly after that. “It already looks a lot drier today,“ Smith exclaimed shortly after the entire Australian thinktank had a good look at the pitch. To be fair to the Aussies, they were not concerned but they weren't completely at ease either. Smith's opposite number in the Indian camp too chose to be cagey about his take on the pitch. “There are a lot of external factors, including weather, that influence how the ball will behave.
 
 That's why as a cricketer you always have to react to situations. As a team we prepare for that,“ said  , whose side will welcome back regular opener Murali Vijay, who has recovered from a shoulder injury sustained before Bengaluru. Smith said he would take another look at the pitch on Thursday morning before finalising his XI.The fact that off-spinning allrounder Glen Maxwell has come into the picture to replace the injured Mitchell Marsh at No. 6 gives a clear indication that Australia are not sure whether to bolster their batting or spin bowling. The Aussies may, however, go with Marcus Stoinis, whose ability to swing the ball could come in handy on what promises to be a slow turner. Fast bowler Pat Cummins is poised to play only his second Test, five years and four months after having made his debut in 2011. These are the two changes the Aussies are contemplating as they try and regroup.
 
 The eight-day break may have helped the players recover, but it also means they have to work harder to get their game back to the earlier level. The two days of practice before the Test was routine stuff. The only new thing on view was a quick game of `foot volley' that Kohli and his boys indulged in. Playing volleyball with foot is not uncommon, but innovative enough to boost players' interest. With the series locked 1-1, one of the teams will have to be innovative enough to pull off a victory here.
 
 
