PANAJI: A week after being implemented, the nationwide Goods and   ( ) is a puzzle for consumers. The tax, slated to envelope all the indirect taxes, has provided fodder for arguments, especially at restaurants, due to service charge and   

 Owners of many restaurants and smaller eating joints told TOI the confusion over the tax rates is translating into confusion among customers. Under the current taxation laws, non-AC restaurants are eligible to levy 12% GST, while AC restaurants can charge 18% GST.
 
  Also, only alcoholic drinks are to be charged separately under VAT as they have been exempted from GST. But despite the regulations, restaurants in the state are charging taxes arbitrarily. 
 
 Confirming that there is confusion prevailing at restaurants across the state, J P Jaggi, president of the South Goa Restaurant Association, said the law has left many aspects of the pricing to the interpretation of owners of establishments. 
 
 “There is a confusion going on regarding the tax rates as well as service charge. The problem is that many restaurants have not registered themselves under the GST regime and are still levying the taxes. There is also not much clarity on which restaurants have to charge what percentage of tax. We will be meeting with the commissioner primarily to sort out the confusion,” Jaggi said, adding that the association has also received complaints of restaurants issuing bills without the GST TIN details. 
 
 Commissioner of commercial taxes  , said his department was keeping a close vigil on complaints and has decided to step up the awareness campaigns in the state. 
 
 “Officers are visiting all restaurants and eating joints in the state to ensure that violations don’t occur. We have decided to not take any punitive action against defaulters for the first month, but if someone is found making the same mistake multiple times, we will act on it. 
 
 We will be initiating a third outreach program with GOACAN and will also be advertising about the taxation on food items under GST. Regarding  , I would like to say that it does not come under the GST and thus can be levied as per the restaurant owner’s discretion,” he said.
 
