THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Though KPCC president   submitted his resignation on Friday, there was no word from party's central leadership on the status of his resignation till Saturday evening. Sudheeran's resignation letter, sent to the high command by noon, was received and discussed by senior leaders, including A K Antony. 

 Sources close to Sudheeran said that there was no response from the high command and Sudheeran was in no mood to relent. The leader, who left Indira Bhavan on Friday evening, after bidding goodbye to all employees, will attend the booth convention of Congress at Gowreesapattom, his home booth, on Sunday evening.
 
 It is learnt that the party's drubbing in UP will have an impact on deciding Sudheeran's replacement. As AICC president   is abroad, it is the duty of vice-president Rahul Gandhi to contact the state leadership and make alternative arrangement. But, Rahul is yet to get in touch with any Kerala leader other than Antony, said sources. "We can't expect him to deal with such an issue at this juncture. Let him take his time," said a senior leader, referring to the election setback.
 
 As Sudheeran was Rahul's nominee and the choice did not become a success, he will now have to seek the opinion of senior leaders before deciding on the new KPCC president. The Punjab experiment will also haunt him. While Rahul was not in favour of projecting   in Punjab, he had tried to induct a new leadership. But, Sonia Gandhi's intervention helped to bring back Singh before polls. The decision proved correct on Saturday as Punjab stood out as the sole pride for the Congress on Saturday.
 
 Many in the state leadership drew parallels between Punjab and Kerala and wished for the comeback of seasoned leader  . Though Chandy had repeated that he wouldn't take up any responsibility, he may change his mind if Sonia and Antony exert their influence.
 
 Opposition leader   too favours Chandy as KPCC chief as the duo shared a rapport when Chennithala was the KPCC president and Chandy was the parliamentary party leader.
 
 K Muraleedharan, who was also among those leaders considered for the post, made it clear on Saturday that he was not ready to take up the party post.
 
