NAGPUR: In a major blunder, Directorate of Technical Education’s ( ) regional office cost a loss of crores to students and colleges, by not encashing the demand drafts (DDs) submitted by first-year  ,   and pharmacy students while taking admission for academic year 2016-17.

 For the first time, the Common Entrance Test cell, Mumbai, had accepted DDs worth Rs1,000 from SC/ST category and Rs5,000 from others while confirming seat. However, due to miscommunication between DTE and CET cell, the DDs were never encashed within the mandatory three months, making many of them invalid.
 
 Joint director of   Gulabrao Thakre was evasive on the issue. “It’s a non-issue. There are no complaints either from the colleges or the students. We have started returning the DDs to colleges to encash, and most of them are settled now, except Gondia. But that too would be sorted out, as the 112 students have been traced.”
 
 However, many colleges revealed that while returning the DDs to them for encashment, DTE held back Rs1,000 per candidate. “Rs1,000 was deducted towards processing fee as was decided earlier,” an official from Thakre’s office said. A college admission in-charge told TOI that the DTE never informed colleges that it was deducting the processing charges, but adjusted the amount in the college fee.
 
 “The Rs5,000 DD included Rs4,000 for seat confirmation and Rs1,000 for processing. The Rs4,000 was meant for the college fee. After sitting over the DDs for months, the DTE deposited them. Finally, some were encashed while some became invalid. Still, it deducted Rs1,000 even for the invalid DDs from the college’s share,” another college admission cell official said.
 
 In addition to this, students were levied a penalty of around Rs200 each by the banks to revalidate the DDs. 
 
 When asked about the actual number of students affected and the amount of money involved, an official said it is a voluminous document and they don’t have a consolidated figure so it can’t be shared.
 
 The Nagpur region comprises seven districts; Nagpur, Gondia, Bhandara, Wardha, Gadchiroli, Bhandara and Chandrapur. As per the DTE website, there are 250 institutes teaching engineering, polytechnic, pharmacy and management in the region.
 
 Explaining the severity of the issue, the official said, “Out of the 250 institutes, consider only 150 faced the problem in the region. Now, if these are multiplied with a conservative estimate of 200 students and Rs1,000 per student, the figure would run into crores.”
 
 Most of the colleges TOI spoke to were not forthcoming, claiming that revealing any data on the episode would strain their ties with the DTE. However, they slammed DTE for causing an avoidable loss and harassment to students, who were asked to get their DDs revalidated and pay the college during peak exam time in April.
 
 “The DTE and CET cell kept thinking that the DDs belonged to them. But none of them had clarity. By the time they confirmed who would get them encashed, it was too late,” a college official said.
 
 
