AHMEDABAD: A team of Gujarat anti-terrorims squad (ATS) brought the  ,  , to Ahmedabad on Sunday morning. He was handed over to the Jamnagar police for further investigation as the case was originally registered at Jamnagar.

  In a joint operation with Uttar Pradesh ATS, the Gujarat ATS had nabbed Kadir Ahmed, 65, a resident of Bijnor for his alleged role in the 1993 RDX and arms landing case of Porbander. Sources in the Gujarat ATS said Kadir, who was on the run for 24 years, had obtained two AK-47 rifles from the cache that had landed on the Gosabara coast of Porbander and then taken to Jamnagar.-
 
 Police sub-inspector in Gujarat ATS, Nikhil Bhatt, said that a warrant issued in 1995 was pending against Kadir. “Even the Mumbai police, who had investigated the 1993 Mumbai serial blasts, had raided Kadir’s house in Bijnor. They had found a photo of Kadir with the underworld don  ,” Bhatt said. Incidentally, more than 250 people had died in the blasts that rocked Mumbai in 1993.
 
 To avenge the killing of Muslims in the riots that broke out after the Babri masjid demolition, underworld don Dawood Ibrahim and his aides, including  , had sent a cache of arms and explosives for the 1993 Mumbai serial blasts. According to sources in the ATS, a warrant was issued against Kadir who was one of the 61 accused in the Gosabara explosives and arms landing case registered both at Porbander and Jamnagar.
 
 According to sources in the Gujarat ATS, Salim alias Kutta, along with other accused had moved AK-47 rifles from the cache of arms that was shipped by Dawood from Karachi to Bijnor.
 
 “Kadir had helped in hiding the arms. After the 1993 serial blasts when Mumbai police raided Kadir’s house, they had found two AK -47 rifles buried in the compound of his house. However Kadir had managed to escape,” said a source in the Gujart ATS .
 
 Later Kadir returned to his house and started a readymade garments business. ““As far as Gosabara explosives and arms landing is concerned, 46 accused have been arrested while 15, including Dawood Ibrahim, his brother Anis Ibrahim and Tiger Memon, are still absconding,” an ATS official said. 
 
 
