

 The dancing sardar, as he's sometimes called, wears his achievements lightly. At 60,   has run 60 half marathons, won gold at the   in the 50 mts. free style event. He's the only visually impaired mountaineer to scale the   in   in Tibet that stands 19,830 ft above sea level. 
 
 And he only started taking part in marathons twelve years ago. "When I run, people clap and cheer and that inspires me. It boosts my morale and drives me to run more and more," he says with a smile. He was diagnosed with macular degeneration, a non-curable eye disease, at the age of 13 and gradually started losing vision. 
 
 "I underwent treatment for 32 long years. From naturopathy, ayurveda, allopathy to homeopathy, I tried everything. But nothing worked. I was totally blind by the age of 40."
 
 He ran his first marathon in 2004 and over the years he's nurtured his passion, running half-marathons in cities like Delhi, Pune, Surat, Daman, Hyderabad and Mangalore among others. But training for them comes with its fair share of concerns. "A major crisis visually impared people like us go through is getting good escorts. I have left many marathons because escorts back out at the last moment. In such a scenario, you cannot arrange for another escort and your registration fees go for a toss. Till date, I have changed 20-22 escorts. But, I have decided to continue running and my first goal is to complete 101 half marathons," he tell Mirror. At Sunday's marathon in Mumbai, Rahul Brahme, who works as a conductor with BEST, is escorting Chawla. The two have run 7-8 marathons together. "The older the escort is, the better, as you make a more cordial team and finish up soon," he says.
 
 His personal best for half-marathons is 1 hour 42 minutes (2005). "I face a lot of difficulties while running. Many a time my knee or ankle gets injured during the race, especially while taking turns or when I stumble because of potholes, speed breakers or bang into some other runner. But in any case I tell my escorts not to rush. My aim has always been to complete the distance that I have registered for. There is no sense in speeding up at the start and then getting tired and leaving the race in between," he says from personal experience.
 
 And once again, he's waiting for the drums to beat at the finish line, ready to break into a dance, inspiring many more along the way.
 
 
