NAGPUR:   has been one of the shining lights for   this season. The   skipper has led from the front and by example to bag 57 wickets in 9 matches of   and  .

 However, the national selectors still didn’t consider the left-arm spinner for the forthcoming National Cricket Academy Under-19 probables camp. Vidarbha pacers Yash Thakur and Darshan Nalkande have been included in the camp.
 
 Vidarbha Cricket Association (VCA) is learnt to have unhappy with Rekhade’s omission and is likely to take up the matter with the junior selection committee. “We aren’t pushing him. His performances are there for everyone to see. He has been consistent for the last two seasons.
 
 He did well in Under-16 category too. He deserved to be among the probables. All we want is a fair opportunity for him. We are going to take up the issue with junior national selectors and the BCCI,” a source in VCA, who doesn’t wish to be named, told TOI.
 
 The 17-year-old has been doing well in Under-19 Cooch Behar and Vinoo Mankad trophies for the last two years. He bagged 27 wickets in 6 matches in Cooch Behar Trophy last year. Apart from turning wickets, he bowled equally well on batting and seaming wickets.
 
 This year too Parth did well. He almost led Vidarbha to the knock-out stage picking up 34 wickets in 6 matches at an impressive average of 15.94 and economy rate of 1.98.
 
 After Vidarbha lost to Tamil Nadu, Parth led Vidarbha to a brilliant victory against Punjab bagging nine wickets in a match. He also picked up nine wickets against Odisha in a must win match at Nagpur.
 
 He was later included in the India Under-19 probables camp before Englad series. He also played a warm-up One-day match against England. Parth was unlucky to be missed out on a Central Zone berth in One-dayers.
 
 In Vinoo Mankad Trophy, he captured 10 wickets in 5 matches at an average of 14.20 and economy of 3.89. He played a key role in Vidarbha finishing second in the zone.
 
 Parth picked up 23 wickets in three matches of Col CK Nayudu Trophy. He played a vital role in Vidarbha’s victory over Baroda in the quarterfinal where he snared 11 wickets in a match.
 
 
