BENGALURU: Confusion and   marked the start of the application process for students under the   (RTE) Act in the city for the academic year 2017-18. Parents who had endured a long wait – the education department delayed the start of the process by a month – rushed to   (BEOs) on Wednesday, but many were asked to return either later or the next day.

 Mamatha GS, who was at the Shivajinagar office on Wednesday along with her six-year-old child Atri, said that she had been waiting for the process to begin since mid-January. “The process keeps getting delayed. We were asked to come later or on Thursday,” she said.
 
 Cluster resource person at the Shivajinagar block education office, Manjula said, “There appears to be a problem with pin-codes and ward numbers. The head office is looking into the issue.”
 
 Moreover, the list of schools that was displayed when officers entered the pin-code of the applicant, included both government and non-government institutions (RTE quota is restricted to private aided and private unaided schools). This mix-up only added to the confusion of officers overseeing the process.
 
 “I was at the Shivajinagar office at 11am, when I learnt that the servers were down. I waited for nearly two hours at the office. I will have to skip work on Thursday and come again to get an application for my son,” said Amin Javed.
 
 Nodal officer at Shivajinagar BEO, Narayana BL said that they would commence the process at 11am tomorrow. “Around 20 parents came to the office on Wednesday. But we asked them to come back tomorrow, since the system wasn’t working. The link is working properly now,” he added.
 
 One of the major problems that the officials at BEOs had to contend with was that the test link had not been replaced with the original link till 4pm. “But the applications can be processed on the test link too. There is no confusion about that,” said PC Jaffer, project director of Sarva Shikshan Abhiyan (SSA), Karnataka.
 
 Meanwhile, many parents who gathered at the KR Puram BEO were sent back, owing to problems with generation of the one-time password (OTP). “The Aadhar card has been made mandatory for RTE applications this year. When we enter the Aadhar number, an OTP is generated and sent to the registered mobile number. But the OTP was not being generated in most cases. We have been told the issue will be fixed by Thursday,” said a technical officer at KR Puram BEO. 
 
 Noor Jabeen, a parent who was at the KR Puram BEO, complained that she had to endure a long wait, owing to technical snags.
 
 Localities differ, problems don’t
 
 The Malleswaram BEO too was plagued by technical problems. “We had around 12 applicants today, but we asked them to come back in two days,” said VC Basavaraje Gowda, block education officer for the area.
 
 “The nodal officer informed us that there was an error in the system, which would be fixed in a few hours. About 25 parents have visited the office since morning,” said Ar Srinivas, block education officer, Yelahanka.
 
 Meanwhile, the Shankarpura BEO recorded no problems with the server. “But for slow network connectivity, the process has been going on smoothly since morning. Around 25 parents visited the office today, and by 2.30pm, three applicants were successfully registered on the RTE platform,” said N Venkatesh, block education officer, Shankarpura.
 
