VARANASI: Banaras Hindu University (BHU) vice-chancellor   has courted another controversy , this time over grant of prestigious “emeritus“ status to a superannuated professor, whose claims about her achievements in her curriculum vitae (CV) were allegedly found to be fake by her own department.

 The BHU executive council, led by Tripathi, had conferred emeritus professorship on Prof Aruna Sinha on March 30 this year, nine months after her retirement. According to her CV ,a copy of which is with TOI, Sinha had claimed on page 16 that she had written a “special paper on life and achievements of Pandit Madan Mohan Malviya for BA students as part of centenary celebrations of BHU, 2016."
 
 She had sent the CV to Tripathi on July 28, 2016, along with a cover application, seeking appointment as an emeritus professor at the BHU.
 
 “This syllabus of history was the first-of-its-kind and no Indian university had a postgraduate course like this as the BHU had,“ the application added.
 
 There has been no course on life of the BHU founder Malviya either for graduate or post-graduate students in the university .
 
 Sinha's application was even endorsed by the dean of social sciences, Manjeet, on August 2, 2016.
 
 Records accessed by TOI, however, reveal that Sinha's own history department council had detected an alleged fraud in her CV and alerted the V-C through several official letters.
 
 On September 19, 2016, the then history department head Binda Dattatreya Paranjpe wrote to the BHU executive council: “Honouring your request, a meeting of the department council was held on September 16 at 4pm. After thoroughly discussing merit of achievements mentioned by Prof Aruna Sinha in her letter and her CV attached to the same, dated July 28, 2016, the department council unanimously resolved that her name cannot be recommended to the prestigious position of Professor Emeritus of BHU.“
 
 “After a careful scrutiny of her CV in light of requirements and guidelines contained in ordinance, the department found that claims made by Sinha in CV are not true. For example, the UGC honoured the department by sanctioning the SAP or introduction of special paper on life of Madan Malviya. Both these claims have not seen light of the day ,“ Paranjpe's letter claimed.
 
 Paranjpe, in protest against the emeritus status conferred to Sinha, even resigned as head of history department on May 6 this year. Sinha, interestingly was head of department of history in the varsity till 2016.
 
 The V-C was not available for comment, however, Sinha told TOI: “I had only proposed this paper. Someone may have fudged my CV before the executive council. I have got the status on merit decided by the EC.
 
