AHMEDABAD/BHOPAL: Ramesh Chandra Agrawal, chairman of DB Corp Ltd (  Group), passed away following a massive cardiac arrest at Ahmedabad airport on Wednesday. He was 73.

 Agrawal is survived by sons Sudhir, Girish and Pawan and a daughter Bhavna. His wife, Sharda Agrawal, died in 2006 after a brief illness.
 
 Prime minister  , BJP president Amit Shah, AICC general secretary Digvijay Singh, chief ministers of MP, Chattisgarh, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Haryana and Punjab were among several prominent leaders who paid tributes.
 
 “His notable contribution to the media world will always be remembered,” the PM tweeted. “Newspaper world is deeply pained because of the untimely death of  . He was very sensitive and known for his quick decision making. I pray to the almighty to give peace to the departed soul and courage to the family members to bear the loss,” tweeted Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan.
 
 Agrawal arrived at Ahmedabad airport from Delhi by an Indigo flight around 11am. He experienced acute chest pain while on the escalator leading to the exit. CISF officials immediately contacted medical emergency services and rushed him to the nearby Apollo Hospital where attempts to revive him failed.
 
 “Ramesh Chandra Agrawal suffered a massive cardiac arrest on Wednesday morning at Ahmedabad airport. He was immediately brought to the emergency department of Apollo Hospitals, Ahmedabad, at 11:25 am where no cardiac activity or rhythm was found,” a hospital bulletin said.
 
 “He was intubated and all emergency therapeutic measures were undertaken including CPR and advance life support. His heart could not be revived despite half an hour of treatment and he was declared dead at 12:05 pm,” the statement said.
 
 Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani and Leader of Opposition Shankersinh Vaghela were among those who visited the hospital to offer homage. His mortal remains were flown to  , where the Bhaskar Group is headquartered. The last rites will be performed on Thursday.
 
 Born on November 30, 1944, at Jhansi, Agrawal came to Bhopal with his father Dwarka Prasad Agrawal and laid the foundation of the Dainik Bhaskar newspaper in 1958. The journey that started from a small two-storeyed building in Chowk in Old Bhopal went on to become one of the leading media groups in the country. In 1983, he laid the foundation of Dainik Bhaskar Hindi in Indore and in 1996 Bhaskar was published for the first time out of Madhya Pradesh — in Rajasthan. Agrawal was also chairman of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry in MP and the Agrawal Mahasabha.
 
 Former Madhya Pradesh CM and Congress general secretary Digvijay Singh said Agrawal was a “close friend”. “The void created by his death cannot be filled easily. He was a media personality and sensitive social worker,” he said.
 
 Madhya Pradesh public relations minister Narottam Mishra recalled Agrawal's contribution towards Hindi journalism. MP Congress president Arun Yadav and senior party leader Jyotiraditya Scindia also expressed deep sorrow at the demise of the media personality.
 
 
