PUNE: The traffic police caught more than 1,800 citizens for driving under the influence of alcohol since May 4 as a part of a special   to check the menace of  .

 The driving licenses of all the offenders have been sent to the motor vehicle court with a recommendation for suspension, in accordance with the law. The drivers — a majority of them youngsters driving two-wheelers — are liable to pay a fine of Rs3,000.
 
 More than 5,000 similar cases, held back by the traffic police from the past year, have also been forwarded to the court for prosecution. The traffic police department has undertaken the special drive to make the city roads safer for all road users. Ashok Morale, who recently took charge as the deputy commissioner of police (traffic) launched it.
 
 As a part of the drive, two rotating and   are being put up by all the 28 traffic divisions in their areas for two hours every day. Barricades are installed to stop the vehicles and the drivers are asked randomly to take the breath analysis test on machines.
 
 According to Morale, youth forms the biggest chunk of offenders. Most of them are caught on two-wheelers.
 
 He said, “Drunk driving is the most dangerous form of driving, in which multiple lives come under risk because of a person’s fault. It is unfortunate that youth take to drive so recklessly. There will be no let-up in our campaign. Rather, we plan to scale it up.” The team members conducting the drive have been instructed to always wear fluorescent jackets, carry their batons.
 
 Rude facts 
 
 Drunk drivers have a significantly higher risk of being involved in a road crash. Studies in low- and middle-income countries have shown that between 33% and 69% of fatally injured drivers and between 8% and 29% of non-fatally injured drivers had consumed alcohol before their crash.
 
  in poor judgement, increased reaction time, lower vigilance and decreased visual acuity. Physiologically, alcohol lowers blood pressure and depresses consciousness and respiration. It also has analgesic and general anaesthetic properties.
 
