 chief   has made it clear to party workers that there is little room for complacency after resounding victories in recent polls, embarking on a 95-day tour to reach out to people in areas where the party does not have strong political presence.
 
  A keen follower of Chanakya, Shah has a methodical approach to elections and his strategy is to win the battle at all costs. Party insiders say the brass is well aware that retaining all the Lok Sabha seats it won in 2014 is a tall order, especially in states such as Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka, where the party fared very well in the previous election.
  
  To make up for possible erosion in the number of seats in these states, Shah intends to expand political footprint in states such as  ,  ,   and Kerala, as well as those in the North East. Simultaneously, all efforts will be made to hold on to states where BJP is strongly placed. The party began with the ‘Congress-mukt Bharat’ (Congress-free India) slogan, but has vanquished regional rivals as well, as seen in the recent assembly election in Uttar Pradesh.
  
  In states where BJP is yet to establish a strong presence, it has not been averse to tying up with a local party or stitching up numbers by attracting defectors. This helped form governments in Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur and Goa, and is likely to come in handy in future too.
  
  In Tamil Nadu, where BJP does not count among the main players, it is said to be backing the O Paneerselvam group. In Odisha, the BJP won only one of the 21 Lok Sabha seats in the 2014 election. It is hoping for a much better performance in the next general election, given its remarkable success in recent elections to local bodies. Many prominent leaders from the ruling BJD, headed by chief minister Naveen Patnaik, may switch to the BJP in anticipation of its changing fortunes in the state, people familiar with the matter said.
  
  While Shah is engaged in getting more parties within the NDA fold, BJP’s ties with its allies may be a cause of worry.
  
  Ties with the PDP in Jammu and Kashmir are visibly strained while the Shiv Sena appears to be making caustic remarks against the BJP on a regular basis. Shiromani Akali Dal is on a weak wicket, though, after its loss in the Punjab assembly election.
  
  Before the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, assembly polls are due in states including Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka and Rajasthan.
  
  In Gujarat, a weak Congress does not pose much of a challenge to the ruling party, although the BJP will go into the polls without   as chief minister for the first time since 2002.
  
  The Congress appears to be in a better shape in Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and Rajasthan and hopes to ensure the next assembly polls are not a cakewalk for the BJP, which is facing infighting and anti-incumbency in these states.
  
  As it gears up to maintain the momentum that saw it trounce its rivals in Uttar Pradesh, the BJP needs to be mindful of sitting MPs who won in 2014 due to Modi’s charisma and may not be given a ticket in 2019. Given Modi’s appeal across the caste spectrum and BJP’s geographically expanding electoral base, it will continue to rely on his popularity and scores of government welfare schemes to win over the masses.
  
  The opposition, comprising the Congress and a host of regional parties, may eventually form an alliance — however fragile and ephemeral — against the NDA in 2019, something the BJP is sure to factor in. 
