CHANDIGARH: Defending promises made in his party's manifesto, Congress leader   said the document was not populist, but a bid to “redeem Punjab's honour“.
Manpreet was a co-chair person of the committee that drafted the manifesto. Asked about the reported stand he had taken against subsidies during his term as Punjab finance minister with the Akali government, Manpreet denied taking any “U-turn“.
 
 He said he had not changed his stance on any issue, except free power for farmers, saying that it was the need of the hour in view of the agrarian crisis in the state. “I had presented four budgets as finance minister and the power subsidy was a part of it. I had resigned over the issue of debt. Later, a rumour about my opposition to power to farmers was spread,“ he claimed.
 
 Elaborating on the move to reduce the number of liquor vends by 5% annually, Manpreet said though he had suggested 10% reduction, it was later felt that it would be too drastic. “The idea is to discour age drinking. People should have to plan their drinks.Vends should ideally remain at the district headquarters,“ he said. In Punjab, the number of liquor vends has doubled in the past ten years.
 
 Replying to a question on whether the manifesto was in spired by   (AAP), Manpreet said that it wasn't the case as his previous party , People's Party of Punjab (PPP), came up with the ideology of welfare of the common man four years before AAP .
 
 On the issue of implementing the Swaminathan Commission report on minimum support price for crops, Manpreet said the Congress government would take up the matter strongly with the Centre. “If it fails to implement the suggestions of the commission, then the next Congress government at the Centre would take on the mantle of doing so,“ he said.
 
 
 
 AAP spokesperson   said people would not accept the manifesto, saying it lacked “credibility“. “It talks about giving jobs, pension and welfare schemes. But in 2002, when Capt Amarinder Singh was the CM, he put a ban on new hirings, pensions and other welfare schemes.“
 
 Hard to have faith in Cong: Sukhbir
 
 SAD chief   said there was no reason for Punjabis to believe in the Congress's manifesto because the party never kept any of its previous promises.“Congress has become a party of thugs who get together on election eve only to befool and loot Punjabis.“
 
