NOIDA: Traffic movement towards   will be completely blocked from all the four sides on Saturday from 2pm until the completion of   celebrations at the venue.

 Those travelling from Sector 12/22/56 T-point, Sector 10/21 intersection, Swani Furniture intersection and Sector 31/25 intersection will not be able to reach the venue via the roads abutting the stadium and would be diverted at different points. 
 
 The road from Sector 31/25 intersection to Sector 21/25 intersection near   Mall will remain completely closed for commuters.
 
 Further, the road towards Sector 12/22 intersection from Metro hospital intersection, roads towards Spice Mall intersection from Jalvayu Vihar intersection, Sector 31/25 and Somerville T-point will also remain closed for vehicles. Only pedestrians will be allowed to use the roads. Traffic will be diverted to alternative routes from various intersections like Sector 57 intersection,   intersection, Sector 10/21 intersection.
 
 Those travelling from telephone exchange building, Sector 19 towards Sector 12/22/56 T-point will be diverted at Sector 10/21 intersection from where they will have to travel towards their destination via Nithari, NTPC intersection and Gijhore intersection. Commuters travelling from Sector 12/22/56 intersection towards Stadium will be diverted at the Sector 57 intersection.
 
 VVIP pass-holders will be allowed to enter the Stadium from Gate No.7 while the VIPs and members of the Shri Sanatan Dharm Ramlila Samiti, which is organising the Dussehra celebrations at the venue, will be allowed to enter the venue from gate number one.
 
 Commuters should also be prepared for traffic diversions around the Sector 62, C block ground where traffic police is likely to shut certain roads in case the vehicular pressure increases. Although Ramlila is being organised for the first time at this venue, traffic police expect vehicle density to increase towards the evening.
 
 In that case, the roads from Fortis intersection towards Khora and PMO Apartments may be closed when required. The commuters travelling towards the Fortis intersection from Khora may be diverted at the Labour intersection or they can also use the inner roads of Sector 62 to reach their destination. 
 
