PATNA: The   on Friday came down heavily on director of   (FSL), Patna, Umesh Kumar Singh, saying he was not fit to retain such a responsible post. The court, however, left it to the state government to take a call on Singh’s continuance in office.
 
  The bench of Justice   of Patna high court made the observation while taking strong exception to Singh’s absence in a Rohtas court where he was supposed to appear on January 10 in connection with a case pertaining to alleged forging of FSL reports. Singh had failed to appear in the high court too in connection with the same case on January 8 and 18.
  
  “His conduct speaks a lot. Singh should explain why a contempt proceeding should not be initiated against him,” the court observed.
  
  The case pertains to an FIR was lodged with Dehri police station in Rohtas against unknown persons in 2013 on the directive of Patna high court. One Dilip Kumar alias Dilip Ram was arrested in connection with the case and a trial was in progress in a Rohtas court against him. Dilip later filed a bail petition in HC, which was rejected by the court. He filed a second bail petition in December last year and the court was hearing his fresh plea. The FSL director was asked to appear in the court in connection with the case, but he failed to do so.
  
  Principal additional advocate general   said the court’s order has been forwarded to the government.
  
  Government advocate   said the court had earlier directed the lower court concerned to finish the trial within a year and allowed Dilip to file a second bail petition after completion of trial in the lower court. “The director was asked to appear in lower court on January 10, but he failed to turn up due to prior engagement. He had informed the Rohtas SP about his inability to reach the court,” Ojha said.
  
  The HC, however, was not satisfied with Ojha’s argument. “Such intentional act of Singh is indicative of the fact that he is bent upon flouting the order of the court,” the court said.
