PUNE: After ensuring seven-year-old Om Sandip Kharat’s safe return to his parents, the crime branch swung into action on Tuesday and nabbed the two men who had  ped the boy on Saturday. 

 Though a ransom demand was made, the kidnappers had let the boy go on Monday night without an exchange of money. The cops tracked down the duo and picked them up from   in Nigdi.
 
 The kidnappers have been identified as 21-year-old Akshay Kashinath Jamdare, the mastermind, and his accomplice Roshan Nandkumar Shinde, 20. Jamdare had earlier worked as a delivery boy in Om’s father Sandip Kharat’s company.
 
 On Tuesday while briefing the media, police commissioner   said “The crime branch’s Unit-IV team, led by senior inspector  , arrested the duo following a tip-off.” She added, “After the boy was kidnapped on September 23, 400 cops worked tirelessly to find him. Police pressure had forced the kidnappers to release Om without a ransom payment.”
 
 After Om was released, he recalled a few names of people who were his father’s acquaintances. Suspecting their involvement, the cops began tracking them down. 
 
 Meanwhile, constable Parandwal got a tip that one of the kidnappers was at a restaurant in Transportnagar. Cops found Shinde there. Shinde confessed and also revealed Jamdare’s name. Jamdare was also nabbed.
 
 
 
 
 Both Jamdare and Shinde desperately needed cash. Shinde had borrowed money to start a driving school. However, he had to shut shop after incurring losses. Jamdare too was not happy with his earnings. The duo wanted to make a fast buck. 
 
 About 15 days ago, Jamdare told Shinde that if they could kidnap Sandip’s son, they would be able to extort a lot of money from the parents.
 
 
 
 
 The duo first purchased a second-hand cellphone from  , and then Shinde borrowed his friend’s car. They carried out recces of Kharat’s house. “A few days ago, they stole a SIM card and made two fake number plates,” Shukla said. 
 
 Jamdare and Shinde originally planned to kidnap Om on September 22 and even waited in front of his house. But the boy never stepped out that day. “The next day, when Om went out to water the plants, the duo snatched him,” Shukla said. Jamdare called Sandip 20 minutes later and demanded Rs 60 lakh as ransom. 
 
 
 
 
 After making the ransom demand, the kidnappers took Om to Shinde’s native village of Gevrai, in Beed. “They told Om that he must stay with them till his father returned their money, and he complied,” Shukla said. 
 
 They spent the night in the car and started for Pune on September 24. “As there was a nakabandi everywhere, they hid the boy in the car’s boot and entered the city by avoiding the main routes,” said a police officer.
 
 
 
 
 Sandip had told the kidnappers that he would not be able to pay Rs 60 lakh. After some haggling, they settled for Rs 17 lakh. The officer said, “Sandip was first told to go to Dehu Road. But on Monday, they told him to bring the money near  .” 
 
 In the afternoon, Shinde decided to check out the atmosphere at the Kharat residence, and got worried when he saw several men in plain clothes. “Scared, the duo dropped the ransom idea,” said the police officer. 
 
 On Monday night, they dropped Om off at Morwadi in Chikhali and told him to wait for his father. They then called Sandip, the father, and told him to pick up the boy.
 
