Mumbai: The twelve-bar warhorses are back for the big annual showcasing of bluesy goodness at the upcoming   Festival that has gained credit as one of Asia’s largest blues gatherings.

 On the weekend of February 11 and 12, the grand old   in   will transform into a haven for the Blues tribe with seasoned musicians curated fr-om across the globe who will hold fort for 50 hours of a genre of music that has inspired and influenced all others.
 
 Now in its seventh year, it’s been a long journey for the Blues from Mississippi delta where it was born to Mumbai’s shores where it grew roots and achieved cult status. Sharing his thoughts on the evolution of the festival, Anand Mahindra, Chairman, Mahindra Group said, “The seventh year of the Mahindra Blues Festival is surely going to live up to what Mumbai expects—a world class festival with a world class line-up. Join us in welcoming   and   back to the Mahindra Blues Festival along with the other fantastic Blues artists. We are delighted to see Mumbai’s Mahindra Blues tribe grow year after year.”
 
 Despite the genre’s continuing decline in the rankin-gs in the West, it’s been a meteoric journey for the festival in India has grown spectacularly since its inception in 2011. Apart from becoming a sellout success among a massive fan following online running into two lakh with big-ticket international acts featuring different styles of blues and ethnicity after blues legend Buddy Guy gave the festival a jumpstart and Joss Stone closed the last one, the festival has extended itself to the Mecca for blues—Buddy Guy’s Legends, the 27-year-old blues club in Chicago to platform local blues acts every May and October at the Mahindra Blues Weekend.
 
 The top draws at this year’s edition of the Festival include Supersonic Blues Machine who will headline the two-day weekend with their magical amalgam of drumming legend Kenny Aronoff, bassist/producer Fabrizio Grossi, and lead singer Lance Lopez, joined on stage by guest artistes  , one third of the ZZ Top trio and blues-rock guitarist Eric Gales. Also, watch out for 17-year-old prodigy Quinn Sullivan who will play the Mahindra Blues Festival for the second time.
 
 Three-time Grammy nominee, Shemekia Copeland who is no stranger to the Indian blues scene after she opened the first ever Mahindra Blues Festival in 2011 will add her brand of music and lyrics to contemporary blues, roots, and soul while singer-songwriter Janiva Magness, a beloved figure in the Americana, blues and roots world will blend the acoustic and electric to create an alternative sound. Grainne Duffy, a singer and songwriter from Ireland is expected to engage audiences with her Celtic influences merging with the musical wellsprings of Memphis and Chicago.
 
 This year’s fest will also see the return of Mumbai-bred blues-rock project Blackstratblues led by guitarist Warren Mendonsa, known for several instrumentals like Christmas in July, Spitleaf and Evil.
 
 While in most ways, the festival will remain true to the model that has run for the past six years featuring cutting edge classic and contemporary acts, keep an eye on the food court too for it promises to dish out New Orleans inspired cajun and soul food. 
 
 (The Mahindra Blues Festival, in association with The Times of India, is co-sponsored by The Glenlivet, with Posterscope as the outdoor sponsor. The festival is promoted and produced by Oranjuice Entertainment)
 
