Even as the murder of a female   inside Infosys in the Hinjewadi IT Park continues to create ripples in the city, another crime has struck the software hub. A 23-year-old IT professional   on Thursday by hanging himself at his residence in  , in Phase III of the IT Park. In a morbid development, police said that before committing suicide, he also   with the   around his neck, and sent it to a friend.

 The incident took place around 11.30 am. The deceased has been identified as Abhishek Kumar, an employee of Tata Consultancy Services (TCS), situated in the same area. Cops also informed that Abhishek’s native place is in Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh, and he had joined the company some eight or nine months ago.
 
 Police inspector (crime) Rangnath Unde of Hinjewadi police station told Mirror, “Abhishek lived in a rented flat with friends. He hanged himself in one of the rooms from a ceiling fan with a bedsheet. The reason for his suicide is yet to be ascertained.”
 
 When Abhishek hanged himself, three of his roommates were present in the flat, but had no idea that he planned to take such a drastic step. Police officials who recorded their statements said, “The flat has three bedrooms, with two persons staying in each of them. On Thursday, Abhishek’s roommate was out of station, while three other housemates were at home. Usually, Abhishek went to office around noon, but on Thursday, around 11 am, he went in from the drawing room and locked the door. The others merely thought he was getting ready for work. But, within a few minutes, a housemate received a panicked call from Abhishek’s friend, who told him about the strange selfie. All three of them rushed in to Abhishek’s room by breaking the lock, but found him hanging.”
 
 According to their statement, they then brought him down and rushed him to a private hospital in Pimpri- Chinchwad. The hospital informed police, after which a team of Hinjewadi cops rushed there. When they reached, doctors declared him dead, around 12.45 pm.
 
 Abhishek’s family members have been informed and have left from Kanpur to come to Pune.
 
