NEW DELHI: Much as desis may brag about how Indian art has arrived on the global stage, one can probably count the big shows on one’s fingers. 2016 was one of the better years with a show by two Indian artists —   at the   in New York and Bhupen Khakhar at the   in London. Before that was V S Gaitonde at New York’s Guggenheim in 2014-15.

 This October, Nalini Malani will become the first Indian contemporary artist to have a retrospective at the   in Paris. But it’s the UK that is hosting one of the biggest outings of Indian contemporary art outside India this year. Six visual arts organisations in the North of England (Manchester, Leeds and Liverpool), and five in  , including the Kochi Biennale, have announced a New North & South partnership that will extend over three years and include a programme of exhibitions, commissions, and events.
 
 In March, Manchester will get a glimpse of Mumbai through the lens of photographer Sooni Taraporevala. In September,   will host a major exhibition by Reena Saini Kallat that will include works like ‘Colour Curtain’, a barricade made from rubberstamps with the names of individuals who have been denied visas, and ‘Light Leaks’, a sculpture modelled on the gates at the Wagah border. 
 
 Nick Merriman, director of Manchester Museum, says one of the aims of the partnership is to bring the work of some really great South Asian artists to North England. “We’re initially selecting mid-career artists who mostly haven’t had solo shows in the UK,” he adds. 
 
 Some works celebrate the shared heritage of the UK and India. Performance artist Nikhil Chopra, for instance, visited Manchester last year and was very taken with a steam locomotive, made locally in 1912 for service on the Indian Railways and then transferred to Pakistan at Partition. “He will be developing a performance piece that encapsulates this story,” says Merriman. 
 
 Raqs Media Collective’s show will also have a Mancunian theme. Developed from research in Manchester’s libraries and museums, their work will include readings of a 1930s agit-prop play about a major strike in India, and a series of portraits of librarians, curators and city guides who quietly watch over Manchester’s history. 
 
 If the work on show goes beyond the “typically Indian” buffet that is served up at most Indian art shows, some of the credit goes to the Kochi Biennale. “Many of us attended the opening of the Kochi Muziris Biennale in December and saw a huge body of significant work from artists working in India and more widely in South Asia that moves art practice beyond ‘typically Indian’ to something more contemporary,” says Merriman.
 
