MUMBAI: This is the time of the year when sports journalists in the city are familiar with a mail landing in their inbox from the   (MCA) every Saturday. “Due to heavy overnight rain, all the Dr HD   matches have been washed out.” Since this is a monsoon tournament which traditionally begins in July and winds up in October, when the city witnesses the fury of the rains, washouts are regular.

 However, the mail which landed on Saturday left everyone bewildered. “All the matches of Dr HD Kanga League (A to D Division) to be played on Sunday, 9th July 2017 are cancelled due to shortage of rains, as most grounds are underprepared,” read the mail, which was signed by MCA JT secretary PV Shetty and Kanga League secretary Deepak Patil.
 
 This is perhaps for the first time in the 69-year-old history of the Kanga League, that   matches have been cancelled due to shortage of rains. What completes the farce is that there has been decent rain (more than 500mm) in the city in June. An MCA official had this lame excuse to offer.
 
 “Though the wickets at Shivaji Park (in Dadar) are in good condition, those at Matunga and the Azad Maidan are underprepared because there was less rain last month. In June, the maalis and groundsmen get time to put soil on the wicket, and the rain then allows the grass to grow and bind with that soil. Since it has hardly rained so far this year, the grass just hasn't grown, and hasn't combined with the soil. If we use a grass-cutter, the wickets will get damaged before the start of the season. The maalis have requested us to postpone the first round, so that the wickets last the duration of the season,” he explained.
 
 Not that those who're directly affected by this strange decision are buying this.
 
 Khodadad Yazdegardi, Vice-President and the cricket secretary of Parsee Gymkhana, was left fuming after his team, which was set to launch its campaign in the tournament at the Police Gymkhana on Sunday, was left playing Hindu Gymkhana in a friendly game on the same day .“I'm contacting the weather bureau to know when can we get ideal rain. The MCA circular to all the local clubs and gymkhanas had stated: “The Kanga League commences on July 9. Kindly see to it that the wickets are prepared. So, if a few wickets aren't prepared by now, then those club gymkhanas should be held responsible. Why put it on `Act of God’?“ he lamented, before adding: “If the shortage of rains is an issue, how are we playing matches from October to May? From what I've heard, a few members of the Kanga League Committee wanted the game to be played, but they were outvoted.”
 
 The latest `bouncer' from MCA left former cricketers aghast. “It's ridiculous. Amazing actually. We used to go to the ground and wait till 2.30pm for the sun to come out! It's a stupid reason. It shows that they aren't interested in conducting the tournament,” fumed ex-India captain  .
 
 “I know that Kanga hasn't been played in the past because of rain, but it's a joke to say that it wasn't played because of no rain. It's unheard of. Good luck to Mumbai cricket,” criticised former Mumbai skipper and chief selector Milind Rege.
 
 
