PATIALA: With the auction of   having been cancelled in four of the seven excise divisions of Punjab, the state government is now banking on amended orders of the   (SC), which reduced   for opening vends along national and state highways from 500 metres to 220 metres on Friday.

 The SC ordered the 500-metre distance requirement on December 15. Due to SC’s previous order, officials said, number of applications for vends fell from 47,000 last year to a few hundred this time around. While the department collected Rs 147 crore from application fee last year, this year’s figure has been kept under wraps.
 
 Excise officials have been saying that number of applications had fallen, as the number of groups had been reduced in accordance with the new excise policy. “There is uncertainty over profits. Vends near or on highways have maximum sales. You cannot expect a truck driver to go 500 metres out of the way to buy liquor. Most main markets in the state are near highways. Also, there are residential areas in these areas, and liquor vends can’t be opened there too,” said a liquor trader, who did not wish to be named.
 
 A senior official of the excise department told TOI that revenue targets this year had been cut from last year’s Rs 5,400 crore to Rs 5,200 crore, but the department was far from the target. “After SC’s amendment, we’re hoping more traders would participate in the next round of auctions,” the official, who did not wish to be named, said.
 
 Auctions in Patiala, Ferozepur, Faridkot and Ludhiana divisions were scheduled for Friday, but were cancelled. They only took place in Jalandhar, Mohali, and Amritsar. “Revenue collected from these divisions is yet to be compiled,” the official said.
 
 The department has now cut the minimum auction price by 5%. Another official said the department will operate vends that aren’t unsold in the next round of auctions.
 
 In view of the previous SC order, the state cabinet had recently cut number of liquor vends from 6,384 to 5,900. Officials said 30% of the 6,384 vends auctioned last year were located along highways. Of these, 22% had been relocated and 8% shut down.
 
 The cabinet had also slashed quota for country liquor from 10.1 crore proof litres to 8.7 crore proof litres, a 14% difference. When it came to Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL), quota had been cut from 4.7 crore proof litres to 3.8 crore proof litres.
 
 However, an excise official said the cut in quota for the two categories of liquor was not the reason for the poor response. “It had been done to bring down liquor quotas which were beyond the consumption of the people.   Brahm Mohindra has already said the decision had been taken to break the nexus between liquor contractors, distilleries and excise officials, who used to exploit this loophole in the excise policy to book profits without paying excise duties,” the official said.
 
 
