MUMBAI: A day after BMC election results were declared, the   on Friday remarked it would check the approach of the new elected representatives towards clearing illegal hawkers and encroachers. Hearing a public interest litigation about unauthorised hawkers and structures on a road in Juhu, a division bench of Chief Justice   and Justice   directed the BMC to spell out the steps it plans to take to permanently evict the encroachers.

 “Now that the civic bodi es have elected new representatives, let us see how they will act (against illegal hawkers),“ remarked the Chief Justice during the hearing. The PIL, filed by Ruia Park Cooperative Housing Society which comprises around 93 members, had raised the issue of encroachers on JR Mhatre Marg. The road connects   with Ruia Park and hawkers have set up structures on the road.Advocate   pointed out that as per the development plan, the road should have been 13 metres wide. At present, the road is seven metres wide, but due to encroachers on both sides of the road the portion available to motorists and pedestrians was barely three metres.
 
 The corporation had con ducted eviction drives, but left the base of the structures as it is on the road. “As a result, the haw kers and encroachers reconstruct their structu res as soon as the BMC team goes away,“ said Narula.
 
 The BMC's lawyer claimed the road was declared a hawker-free zone. Once the corporation's team clears the illegal hawkers and structures, it was the respon sibility of local police to ensure the road was encroachment-free, its lawyer said. The corporation had also addressed letters to the police, the court was informed.This stand invited a sharp retort from the bench. “Will you allow the police to collect property tax,“ asked the judges. “You want the police to keep the roads clean and hawker-free, then share some of the revenue from taxes with them. Is maintenance of roads the duty of the police?
 It is the responsibility of the ward officer to keep a watch on roads and inform the police if there are any encroachments,“ said the judges.
 
