Kolkata: A bus ran over a homemaker, who had just dropped her son to school minutes before, at   on Wednesday morning. The death sparked chaos on the road as guardians of other schoolchildren hit the streets to protest against rash driving and police inaction against such negligent drivers. Police is yet to nab the driver of the killer bus.

 The victim,   (in her 30s), was a resident of Murari Pukur Road under   police station. She was riding pillion on a motorcycle with her neighbour Samir Saha. Sonali’s son studies in Salt Lake AD Block School’ primary section while Samir’s daughter studies in BD Block School. The two had dropped off their respective wards and was returning home when the   happened.
 
 Samir was near the crossing of AD Block and AB Block when a bus on route 201 rammed the motorcycle. Sonali fell from the bike. The bus, in breakneck speed, ran over her, crushing her body abdomen down. 
 
 This was around 6.50am. 
 
 She was pronounced brought dead at ILS Hospital, Salt Lake. Samir, however, survived with minor scratches.
 
 In addition to the rash driving, the satellite township also showed its inhuman face, with nobody coming forward to help the injured get medical aid. Sonali lay in pool of blood as Samir kept pleading to passersby to help him rush Sonali to the hospital. At least 50 minutes had been wasted before an auto driver took her to hospital.
 
 “I believe my wife could have been saved if she got medical attention in time. Salt Lake boasts that it’s a place for the ‘bhadralok’. I wonder why no one showed civility to a dying person. There are so many hospitals at a stone’s throw, but my wife died without any treatment,” lamented Sonali’s husband Kajol Dey, who delivers milk pouches door-to-door. In fact, the hospital where Sonali was taken to is only about 1km from the accident spot. Sonali arrived only around 7.40 am. By then, she had bled to death.
 
 “By the time the patient was brought here, there was nothing we could do to save her. It was too late,” said an administrator at ILS Hospital Salt Lake. 
 
 Witnesses said the killer bus was racing with another bus on route 215. The driver lost control and hit the motorcycle. Once guardians of the other children came to know of the accident, they hit the streets. They alleged that rash driving is regular at Salt Lake, specially during morning hours and there was no police control on such recklessness. 
 
 The Deys had purchased the bike only six months ago. Though the husband dropped the child regularly, he had been unwell for the past few days and had asked the neighbour to use his bike to take his wife and drop his son along with Samir’s.
 
 “Despite hardships, my brother and sister-n-law wanted a good education for their only son. The bike was purchased to make commuting to and from the school easier. It is going to be a tough battle for my brother and nephew now,” said Kajol’s elder brother Shankar.
 
