HYDERABAD: Come April, gun licenses in Cyberabad will be available at the click of a button.Touted as a first-of-its-kind move in the country, the service will be extended to all covered under commissionerate limits. The biggest beneficiaries will obviously be individuals facing life threat, and private security personnel.

 Being developed by the city-based Centre for Good Governance (CGG), the facility can be accessed on the  's website soon, said officials associated with the project. Apart from saving applicants the trouble of visiting the local police station to procure a license--as was the norm until now--the new practice will allow senior officers to track the status of an application. Weeding out human intervention, thereby reducing irregularities, is another positive, the authorities said. 
 
 It turns out that most individuals using guns are realtors, businessmen, and politicians and their relatives. In the past, there have been infrequent complains of harassment by the police who, applicants alleged, did not process their documents owing to ulterior motives.
 
 “As part of the new system, license seekers will have to apply online. Subsequently, their background verification will be done by our officials and a hard copy of the license issued,“ said Sandeep Shandilya, commissioner of police, Cyberabad.“This system will allow senior officers to track the status (of an application) and seek an explanation from the local police in case of a prolonged delay in the processing of an application.“
 
 Another USP is to run a check on the credentials of existing gun license holders, logging in for renewal. Officials said the programme will help arrest weapon misuse and pin down criminal cases registered against holders of licenced weapons.
 
 “The arms license project is one of a four-part module we are working on in Cyberabad. The system is in the testing phase and should be ready in two or three days,“ said Rajendra Nimje, director general, CGG, reiterating the benefits of the new facility.
 
 Nimje said, “It will not only make the process smoother, but also more transparent by cutting down delays and corruption.“ He said the centre is also working on 25 unique e-governance projects for Telangana.
 
 Though the application process for licenses will be made online, the verification of applicants will be done by the local police with the support of the Special Branch (SB), which will step in depending on threat perception. In cases involving prominent persons, state intelligence officers will also be roped in for an assessment.
 
