NEW DELHI: Some top state-run firms, under immense pressure to pay a large   to fund government spending, are seeking exemption from making huge payouts as that may affect their capital expenditure plans and ratings, officials and industry executives said.
 
  “The government is insisting that public sector companies pay the maximum possible dividend in this challenging financial year so that additional resources are available for state programmes without breaching the   target,” a source with direct knowledge of the matter said.
  
  “The government is also encouraging   to meet their capital spending needs through fresh borrowings.” Every state-run firm must pay a minimum dividend of 30% of its net profit or 5% of  , whichever is higher subject to the maximum dividend permitted under the law, according to a guideline issued last year.
  
  A state company is expected to pay the maximum dividend possible until it can justify that the funds retained were being optimally leveraged to ensure higher investment, according to the guideline.
  
  
 
  
  Some of the top state firms, including a few oil firms, are seeking exemption from this. “We have always paid a handsome dividend. This year too our dividend will likely be higher than the minimum set by the government. But we can’t pay as much as has been demanded by the government this year. That would hurt our investment plans,” a senior executive at a large state-run firm said.
  
  A large dividend outgo means companies are left with less cash to fund their investment plans, inducing them to borrow more. Increased borrowing can affect their credit ratings and make funds costlier, the executive said.
  
    chiefs at state firms have been intensely negotiating with government officials to reduce the demand for dividend from their companies, sources said. Some of these companies, in fact, have succeeded in this, they added.
  
  The government received about Rs 34,000 crore out of the total dividend of about Rs 58,000 crore declared by 112 state firms in 2014-15. The dividend was about 44% of the net profit of state firms.
  
  A quarter of the total dividend came from oil sector companies that are also among the most profitable. Along with coal and power, the oil sector contributed nearly two-thirds of state firms’ total profit in 2014-15. Nearly half the state firms’ profits came from Oil &   Corp,  ,  ,  ,   Corp,  ,   Corp and  .
  
  
 
  The government's demand for a higher dividend payout makes sense only when state-owned companies are sitting on a pile of cash at a time when the economy badly needs investments to grow. This is especially true for companies in sectors such as gas, power and even coal where the capex needs are large. If these companies fail to spend their cash pile it is unfair to the dominant shareholder and makes the case for surrendering unused funds compelling. But this logic obviously does not hold if PSUs are cash strapped.
  
  
