HYDERABAD: A day after the district-level scrutiny committee declared   Vemula as belonging to OBC and not a Dalit, Cyberabad police are mulling closing the case filed under   against those accused of abetting the researcher scholar’s suicide. 

 “We have completed the investigation in the case. If the research scholar is indeed declared as belonging to OBC then we cannot act on the charges pressed against the accused under the Prevention of SC/ST Atrocities Act. However, we will consult our legal team before closing the case,” said Vishwa Prasad, deputy commissioner of police, Madhapur. 
 
 UoH vice-chancellor Appa Rao Podile along with Union minister  , MLC Ramachander Rao and   student leaders Sushil Kumar and Vishnu were booked for abettment to suicide in the case. However, the committee headed by the Guntur collector, in its final report to the Andhra Pradesh government recently, stated that both Rohith and his mother Radhika Vemula belonged to the Other Backward Class and not the Scheduled Caste. 
 
 While the committee has now issued a showcase notice to Rohith’s mother, giving her two weeks to prove that she indeed belongs to the SC community, its report has drawn flak from Rohith’s friends and supporters who are spearheading a movement in the university seeking justice for him. 
 
 “The collector’s report itself is self-contradictory as in its report submitted to the   last year, it termed Rohith as a Dalit. Even Rohith’s paternal grandfather in his deposition said that he was a Dalit. We are not surprised as it was a conspiracy by the BJP government that plotted long back to declare Rohith as a OBC candidate,” said Prashanth Dontha, Rohith’s friend and one of the five Dalit scholars suspended by Podile. 
 
 Dontha further added that report was deliberately submitted ahead of the Uttar Pradesh elections. “People in UP have been rejecting the BJP government after Rohith’s death. By declaring Rohith and Radhikamma as belonging to OBC, the BJP government is further aggravating Radhika’s personal tragedy,” he said. Kin of Vemula is now seeking legal opinion before submitting a reply to the committee’s report over the family’s caste. 
 
