JAIPUR: Union minister of state for social justice and empowerment   on Tuesday came in support of his party parliamentarian Udit Raj in demanding quota for SC/ST persons in the Indian cricket team.

 “I support the demand. Many times Indian team loses (matches). So, if it is to win… if there is reservation, it can win. If Dalit players get a chance, it will be good,” Athawale said when asked for his response on the recent demand made by BJP MP from   constituency. The union minister, in fact, stressed he was the first one to raise this demand. “I asked for SC/ST reservation in Indian cricket team long back,” said Athawale, who is also president of the Republican Party of India (A).
 
 At the same time, the minister said the present Team India under Virat Kohli was doing fine and compared it to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s team. “Like his (Kohli) team, Modi’s team is also defeating everyone,” Athawale said.
 
 Earlier in the day, the union minister held a review meeting at the state social justice and empowerment department here. The department officials apparently failed to brief Athawale about the ongoing controversy on social security pensions not being received by many Jan-Dhan account holders in Rajasthan. Athawale faced difficulty in answering a question on the matter at the press conference. “I am not aware of the issue,” the minister said.
 
 A day earlier, the opposition Congress staged protest in the city accusing the state government of stopping pensions of persons whose Jan-Dhan accounts received Rs 50,000 or more between November 8 and December 30.
 
 The union minister, meanwhile, once again said that the Constitution should be amended to allow quota demands of the so-called upper castes like Rajputs and Brahmins. Repeating what he said in August last year, Athawale said he would take up the issue with Prime Minister Modi to grant 25% reservation to upper castes, without disturbing the existing quotas of SC, ST and OBC.
 
 The minister also reiterated about promoting inter-caste marriages as a means to put an end to atrocities against Dalits. “Every year around 45,000 to 46,000 cases of atrocities against Dalits are recorded in the country. This is a very high number,” Athawale said. Praising Rajasthan for giving Rs 5 lakh (maximum in the country) to couples going for inter-caste marriages, Athawale repeated his suggestion that the state governments should grant Rs 25 crore to districts that record maximum inter-caste marriages. The union minister was, however, non-committal on his own department’s contribution to the initiative.
 
 Athawale commended chief minister   for the state achieving 28% conviction rate in Dalit atrocity cases. The minister said his department would look into the state’s demand for considering women between 18 years and 40 years also for schemes meant for widows. “I am told that at present widows who are 40 years or above are considered for the department’s schemes. When women can legally marry at 18 years, the widows cannot be denied social schemes’ benefits at that age,” Athawale said.
 
 Box:
 
 ‘Cong misleading people on pension’
 
 Rajasthan’s minister for social justice and empowerment   on Tuesday said the Congress was misleading people by falsely claiming that pensions to Jan-Dhan accounts were being stopped. “Pensions are not being denied to persons whose Jan-Dhan accounts have Rs 50,000 or more,” Chaturvedi clarified in a press statement.
 
 The minister said there was no order to stop pensions citing an RBI guideline of August 24, 2014. Chaturvedi said the RBI guideline related to authenticating a beneficiary’s pension eligibility but it was later withdrawn. “The guideline says that no Jan-Dhan account can have an amount above Rs 50,000. So, pensions of persons whose accounts have more than that amount are returned to the treasurers. Once the account holder withdraws the excess amount, the pension is again deposited in his/her Jan-Dhan account,” the statement read.
 
 Chaturvedi claimed 59 lakh people were receiving social security pensions under the present BJP government, while only 44 lakh people got it under the previous Congress government.
 
 
