JERSEY CITY: Late on Saturday evening at  , cloudy and overcast conditions aptly reflected the gloomy mood of the International team as their Presidents Cup campaign spiraled towards ignominy of worst defeat in the history of the tournament.
 
 And then, as Match No. 17 headed towards the 15th hole, the sun finally broke through. And so did  .
  
 Living under the burden of a missed short putt on the final hole of his singles match in Incheon, South Korea, from two years ago, which would have at least resulted in a rare tie for his team, the 30-year-old Indian finally slayed the Raavan within - amazingly coinciding it with Dussehra day - as he produced a clutch performance over the closing holes.
  
 Paired with Korean Si Woo Kim against Americans   and  , the International pair was one-down with four holes to play. His partner hit a peach of a second shot into the 15th to tie the match, and then handed over the centrestage to Lahiri.
  
 A brilliant tee shot to 16 feet below the pin on the par-3 16th resulted in a birdie that gave Internationals the lead again, but Lahiri's moment of redemption came on the 17th hole.
  
 Hoffman had sparked wild celebrations - which proved premature eventually - when he holed his chip from 65 feet for a birdie. It was a shot that even prompted Lahiri to applaud - a gesture of sportsmanship that did not go unnoticed - before he returned his attention to a tricky, curving 19 foot birdie putt of his own.
  
 Make that putt, and the chances were that the Presidents Cup would be alive going into the final day's singles. Miss it, and the Americans would wrap up the Cup in most comprehensive fashion. Lahiri studied the putt from every possible again, settled over the ball, and delivered a masterstroke which justified the immense trust the whole International team placed on him by selecting him as one of their two picks.
  
 He was not done yet. On the par-3 18th, he produced another brilliant up-and-down to deny the Americans a clean slate in the evening Four balls. The rare win may not affect the result much - Team USA need just one more point from the 12 singles to retain the cup - but it does give Nick Price and his men a sliver of hope and a chance to restore their pride.
  
 It was Lahiri's first point in Presidents Cup in five matches, but he refused to call it redemption. "Just look at the scoreboard. You can't call it a redemption when the team is in such a position. It is only a small personal achievement that I have finally managed to get into the point in this tournament.
  
 "It was really hard. I think that one full point has been quite elusive this week for us. You know, it was nice to get the job done.
  
 "Obviously, it's been a tough week for the team, so we were trying our hearts out. Si-Woo played great today. I stepped up today but we combined well. It was nice to come up with a full point."
  
 The Internationals have led in majority of matches in the front nine this week, only to fizzle out as the Americans produced some inspired performances on the back nine. It was something that Lahiri also wanted to do.
  
 "We have been watching the Americans do it all week. As soon as they make the turn to come up 14 towards the clubhouse, they just make everything. They make it happen. If you look at how they have played the back nine, that's where they really outplayed us," he added.
  
 "We were saying, some of us have to go out and try to do the same thing, because that's the only way we are going to win a point. You saw how Charley holed out; that's kind of what the Americans have displayed this week. To answer back in a similar form it gives me a lot of satisfaction, and hopefully the rest of us, myself included, can come out and do the same tomorrow."
  
 Despite his heroics, Lahiri was under no illusion as to the severity of the task ahead of them in the singles. "I'll be honest with you, this American Team is really good. They have played really good," he said.
 '
 "That said, we are a good bunch of golfers ourselves. We can compete. We haven't this week, but you know, going into tomorrow, I think we have to enjoy ourselves a little more. It's difficult to do that when you're down the way we've been.
  
 "So obviously, I think all of us are going to go out there and try and play our best. We have to play for our pride.
  
 "I think all 12 of us, we feel terrible about this being Nick's last year of captaincy, and we've not played well and the Americans have played great. So this is not the way we'd like him to leave. We want him to go out on a happy note. So we are going to give him our all and we are going to play for our pride and for him."
  
 Lahiri takes on Kevin Kisner in his singles match.
 
