MUMBAI:  , a student of  , emerged as the city champion of Classmate   Season 9. The semi-finals of the competition were held in Mumbai this week. Gupte will now be in contention to compete in the national finals.

 Classmate and Radio Mirchi 98.3 FM had launched season 9 of Classmate Spell Bee three months back. In the initial phase, an on-ground exercise was conducted across 85 schools in the city where children were given spelling tests. Top 15 scorers from each school competed in the city finals and the top performers from the city finals then competed in the semi-finals of the competition, which was conducted online. Mumbai was among the 30 cities where the semi-finals were held.
 
 Sumit Aggarwal, senior vice-president and national head activations, Entertainment Network (India), said, “This competition reinstates the belief that our students have the potential of competing on an international level and are second to none.” The culmination of Classmate Spell Bee Season 9 will see a grueling competition between the top 16 scorers of India to win the title of Classmate Spell Bee Season 9’s National Champion. A city winner does not automatically qualify for the national finals —only 16 students with the top 16 scores across India qualify.
 
 Shailendra Tyagi, chief executive, ITC’s Education and Stationery Products Business, said, “This season builds on the scale we achieved last year with the aim of reaching out to an even larger number of students across schools and cities in India through a school contact programme coupled with a novel mobile app and a dedicated website.” Abhishek Anand, marketing manager Classmate, said that they have customized a multi-layered engagement platform to drive student outreach and participation.
 
 The national champion will win a grand cash prize of Rs 2 lakh along with the opportunity to witness Scripps National Spelling Bee with a parent in Washington DC, USA, while the four semi-finalists will win a cash prize of Rs 50,000 each.
 
