JAIPUR: Adopting the Rajasthan model of wheat flour   as a major step towards addressing nutritional deficiency, the Union ministry of consumer affairs directs state governments to distribute staple fortified food under targeted   all over the country.

 The directive by the Union Consumer affairs on December 22 last year says fortification could be a good vehicle to address anemia and micro nutrient deficiency especially among women and children.
 
 “A large part of the population suffers from acute malnutrition, Deficiencies in vitamins, minerals, and other micro nutrients in particular have long ranging effects on health, cognitive abilities, and productivity which are critical to our all-round socio economic development. These deficiencies need to be addressed on a war footing, says the order.
 
 The central directive comes in the back drop of the Food Safety and Standards ( ) Regulation 2016 comes in to effect on Oct 16 2016. It covers production, manufacture, distribution, sale and consumption of fortified food which include fortification on wheat.
 
 At a zonal multi stakeholder consultation meeting held in New Delhi recently, Rajasthan’s effort in food fortification has come in for appreciation. The meeting has been convened by the ministry of women and child development before formulating a comprehensive policy for food fortification to fight the widely prevalent deficiencies of iron vitamin A and D and iodine and other micro nutrients, principal secretary  .
 
 Chief Minister   in the last budget had given a boost to the effort by announcing the fortification of wheat flour, edible oil and double fortified salt to be sold through the public distribution system.
 
 Fortification, especially of staples like wheat flour, oil, milk etc., is considered to be a good strategy to reduce dietary deficiencies in Rajasthan as the per capita consumption of wheat, milk and oil is higher than the average consumption in the country and hence these are good vehicles for fortification.
 
 At present four food items oil, milk, salt and wheat flour are fortified in Rajasthan.
 
 While fortified atta (wheat flour) is yet to be launched in the fair price shops, it is now available at the 5008 Annapurna Bhandars. The edible oil has been fully fortified with Vitamin A and D from July last year similarly double fortified salt with iron and sodium, said principal secretary food and civil supplies Subodh Agarwal.
 
