THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With the availability of drinking water in several parts of the state dropping to frightfully low levels, the   has asked   to set up   in 5,000 locations across the state immediately. 

 The kiosks will be set up in each district based on the rainfall it received and the availability of drinking water sources in the region. Accordingly, Palakkad will have the maximum number of water kiosks (600) while Idukki will have the fewest number (200). The government has given clearance to set up kiosks with a capacity of 3,000, 5,000 and 10,000 litres, for which agreement have been signed with two private firms for supplying them. The kiosks will be a permanent structure and will be maintained even after the drought season. The local bodies can use them as drinking water supply units linking them either with the groundwater or water supply projects. 
 
 A special video conference was chaired by chief minister   and attended by top bureaucrats including chief secretary   and all the district collectors.
 
 At the conference, the chief minister assessed the preparedness of each district to fight drought. The water bodies in each district were identified and classified on the basis of fresh water availability. 
 
 Meanwhile, though the revenue department lifted the blanket it had imposed on constructing bore-wells till May 31. In the new order issued after the chief minister spoke against such a ban, the revenue department has said the construction of private borewells needs to be controlled. The order also said that permission for constructing the borewells will be given at the discretion of the district collectors based on recommendations from the ground water departments. If necessary, the district collectors can also impose a ban on such constructions under the provisions of Disaster Management Act, the order said.
 
 The district collectors have also begun using the powers under the Disaster Management Act to take over the private water bodies in areas, where there is scarcity of water to share it among households.
 
