MUMBAI: The stampede at   station, which claimed 22 lives and injured scores, is a stark reminder that high-density crowds can be lethal. While mass gatherings are usually safe, stampedes have known to occur at pilgrimages, music concerts, sporting events, protest rallies and even discount sale days such as  .Many think that if people just acted rationally they wouldn't be crushed to death.
But research into crowd dynamics shows that it's not panic that kills. In a populous country such as India, crowds are inevitable but a little awareness of the warning signs of a high-density crowd formation can be the difference between life and death.
 
 
 
 
 There are myths surrounding stampedes, but understanding the science behind high-density crowds can provide life-saving tips to survive a situation. For one, it is not injuries from being trampled upon that kills people but asphyxiation that leads to death. It is also worthy to remember that not all stampedes result in fatalities.
 
 
 
 A high-density crowd is when there are six or more people per square meter, six being the minimum. In highdensity crowds, people are squeezed together so tightly that they can no longer choose where to go and begin to resemble the movement of a fluid. Such crowds can develop pressure waves that can exceed 1,000 pounds of force.These waves can travel through the group causing it to lose control. High-density crowds can kill in two ways: Crowd crush and progressive crowd collapse
 
 
 
 
 A crowd crush is when people are jammed together so tightly that they can no longer inflate their lungs and they gradually die of asphyxiation or suffocation. The people who die in crowd crushes are usually the ones against the wall. Crowd crushes happen when an ever increasing number of people try to fit into a confined space, either trying to get in or get out.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 A progressive crowd collapse occurs when one person suddenly falls because of the pressure the crowd is exerting on them or because they slip.Those adjacent are denied the support of the fallen person's body they were leaning against but are still under pressure from the other side.This ultimately results in a domino effect where those ad jacent are knocked over.
 
 The result is a hole where more and more people are forced into creating a pile of bodies atop each other until the pressure eases. This is usually seen when a large tightly packed crowd is moving forward steadily through a confined space."Crowd forces can reach levels that are almost impossible to resist or control. Virtually all crowd deaths are due to compressive asphyxia and not the "trampling" reported by the news media. Evidence of bent steel railings after several fatal crowd incidents show that forces of more than 4500N (1,000lbs) occurred. Forces are due to pushing, and the domino effect of people leaning against each other ," says   Still, professor of crowd science at   on his website. 
 
