LUCKNOW: After resigning from   and deciding to take to street in a desperate bid to revive her political fortunes in UP, BSP chief is all set to challenge the BJP by organising a rally in PM   parliamentary constituency of Varanasi on October 18. This will be the second rally after one in Saharanpur on September 18. The Dalit leader has decided to hold a rally on the 18th day of every month till May 2018 as a reminder of July 18, the day she resigned from Rajya Sabha in protest against not being allowed to speak on the issue of Dalit atrocities on Saharanpur.

 BSP sources said Mayawati has asked all her top party functionaries including RS MPs S C Mishra, Ashok Siddhartha and Munqad Ali (Ali is also BSP coordinator for Poorvanchal region) to oversee the preparations and make the proposed Varanasi rally a big success. Sources said instructions have been issued to party functionaries to bring along supporters in large numbers from not only Varanasi but also from Azamgarh, Ballia and Mau.
 
 BSP sources said the decision to hold a meeting in the PM’s constituency was taken at Mayawati's close door meeting with party functionaries in Delhi on Sunday. Political experts see this as Mayawati bid to elevate the sagging morale of party workers in Poorvanchal by challenging BJP and particularly PM Modi in his parliamentary constituency.
 
 “It’s going to be a show of party strength in the region,” BSP leader   told TOI, adding that the venue of the Varanasi rally would soon be finalised.
 
 Experts said the Poorvanchal region has substantial population of Dalits and members of   (MBCs), the two caste groups that once comprised the key voter base of BSP. “The scenario has been changing significantly after 2014 Lok Sabha elections when Dalits started siding with the BJP. In 2017 assembly elections, MBCs followed suit and voted heavily in favour of the BJP,” said a political expert.
 
 BSP leaders said with a rally in Varanasi, Mayawati wants to regain lost political ground, especially amongst the MBCs, who constitute 40% of the total population in Poorvanchal. “Behenji (Mayawati) plans a show of aggression against BJP after resigning from the Rajya Sabha and we hope the show will be a success,” said a senior BSP leader.
 
