Mumbai:   bellwether   is likely to buy the $185-million (Rs 1,187 crore) stressed debt of   in a bid to gain control of the investee company, which operates a 2,000-bed hospital in Mumbai and Visakhapatnam.

 JP Morgan is discussing debt mop-up from lenders led by   so that it could push for strategic changes in business, and prepare it for an eventual sale, people directly familiar with the matter said.
 
 Dr Jitendra Das Maganti, who remains the majority shareholder, founded SevenHills Healthcare in 1982. 
 
 However, the Axis Bank-led consortium of lenders have moved court seeking repayment of their dues. With this, JP Morgan’s overall exposure to the hospital may rise over $300 million. 
 
 The private equity arm of US’ biggest bank had initially put in $72 million for a 35% stake in SevenHills Healthcare in 2008 and topped up its investment subsequently.
 
 AION Capital, jointly owned by   and  , is also in the fray to pick up the debt and gain control, though JP Morgan is seen as the frontrunner. “It would be better for an existing shareholder to take over the debt rather than allowing a third party to come in now,” sources said. JP Morgan declined to comment on the story while a query sent to SevenHills remained unanswered.
 
 The proposed action follows after JP Morgan’s attempt to sell its equity interests in SevenHills Healthcare failed. For more than two years, the fund has been looking to exit its investment but its departure has been hindered by valuation differences and the hospital chain’s debt woes.
 
 “Healthcare remains an attractive sector for financial as well as strategic investors. The space is growing by high teens percentage with patients willing to pay more for better-equipped facilities. The preference for investment, however, is shifting to niche segments like speciality chains,” said Manoj Patkar, partner at 7i Capital Advisors. 
 
 Despite the macro potential, several healthcare M&A deals have dragged in recent months following investor concerns about growing state government interventions to impose price controls on medical procedures.
 
 
