AHMEDABAD: The Collected Works of Mahatma Gandhi (CWMG) running into 97 volumes and published between 1958 and 1994 is an exhaustive series of letters, articles, and speeches written or made by Gandhiji during his lifetime. These volumes present Gandhiji’s view of the world and himself, but rarely has there been an effort to delve into Bapu’s times, his legacy, for which one needs to read the CWMG with letters written to Gandhiji.

  For the first time, a team of researchers have dared to look into Bapu’s inbox and have compiled the first volume, “Letters to Gandhi’ consisting of 312 letters (1890 to 1900) that were written to Bapu while he was corresponding with a staggering range of public figures in South Africa. There is a total of 8,500 rare letters — unread by scholars—that were written to Gandhiji and were preserved by Bapu during his lifetime.
 
 Some very important letters that find mention in this volume are for instance about the role played by a police official of Durban, R C Alexander, and his wife who had saved Gandhi’s life from a mob in 1897.
 
 The ambitious project of transcribing these letters into 20 volumes will take a decade, according to Sabarmati Ashram director Tridip Suhrud. 
 
 The first volume has been brought out by a team of editors, which include Suhrud, Megha Todi and Kinnari Bhatt, who had painstakingly gone through these letters and transcribed them. 
 
 People who wrote to Gandhiji belonged to different religions, countries, and social classes. From his earliest years as a lawyer, Bapu was in touch with groups of Muslims, Hindus, Christians, Jews and Parsis. There was a strong Gujarati diaspora, so were there Tamil, Anglo-Indian, and European associations. 
 
 “These were the early South African times of Gandhji where he was emerging as a public figure and an activist . He was fighting for rights of the indentured labourers,” says Suhrud.
 
 The Sabarmati collection has rare letters from Gandhiji’s closest associates. They include H O Ally, his long-serving secretary in South Africa, Sonja Schlesin, another long-time collaborator, L W Ritch and his friend and crucial second-in-command, Henry Polak.
 
