Chandigarh: Punjab police have submitted before the Justice Mehtab Singh Gill (retd) commission of inquiry that as many as 79 FIRs registered in Bathinda district during the 10-year SAD-BJP regime were false. Bathinda is the parliamentary constituency of SAD leader and Union minister of food processing industry Harsimrat Kaur Badal.

 “In the cases mentioned at serial number 1-79 of the enclosed list, the investigating agency of the government itself has, on the basis of high-level inquiries, opined that the cases are false,” the commission has said in its interim report submitted on August 23 to chief minister Amarinder Singh. Another member of the commission is retired district and sessions judge B S Mehandiratta.
 
 The report further reads, “Even then, the commission has thoroughly gone through the evidence collected by the investigating agency in all the cases. Commission finds that the reports of the investigating/inquiry officers are quite impartial and based on the evidence collected during investigation/inquiry.”
 
 According to the report, most of these cases were registered between 2010 and 2016, for theft, forgery and voluntarily causing hurt. As many as 36 cases were registered in 2016 followed by 22 in 2015 and 13 in 2014. Four of the   were of rape and three under the NDPS Act. A total number of seven false cases each were registered at police stations Phul, Nehianwala and Civil Lines Bathinda. Six cases were registered at police station Talwandi Sabo and five cases each at Dialpura, Kot Phatta and Canal Colony police stations.
 
 Interestingly, the SAD and the BJP had also been alleging that their party workers were being victimized and false cases were being registered since the present Congress government had come to power. Even the SAD workers had also approached the commission with complaints against their own senior party leaders.
 
 Till now, the commission has probed 178 cases and recommended action against police officers, a few sarpanchs and complainants for registering false cases, says the report. The commission is now probing remaining complaints.
 
 
