GURUGRAM: After a delay of close to two years, the second phase of  , connecting Sikanderpur to sectors 55-56 along  , is set to get operational soon. The company has approached the Commissioner of   (CMRS) for inspection of this phase.

 According to sources, getting the CMRS nod should not take much time, as this phase is an extension of an operational system. This means you could see Metro trains roll down Golf Course Road as early as April, filling a gaping hole in the public transport map of the city. 
 
 Rapid Metro authorities, though, are tight-lipped about an official launch date. “We’re set to commence operations as soon as we get the nod from CMRS. We’ve already submitted our request to the commissioner to inspect Phase 2, and hope to get the permit soon,” said a source. “All stations and trains are ready. We started trial runs last year itself, and we’re ready to commence services. Stations and other infrastructure are in place,” the source added.
 
 Phase-2 starts from Sikanderpur, and is a 7km corridor straight Golf Course Road to the DoubleTree hotel in Sector 55/56. The other stations on the route are   Phase-1,  , Sector 53-54 (South Point Mall) and Sector 54 Chowk.
 
 The first phase of Rapid Metro, which is India’s only privately built and operated mass transit system, is a 5.1km loop from Sikanderpur, through Cyber City. Ridership fell well short of estimates in the first phase but the second phase is expected to be very different because it has a huge catchment area and takes the Metro right to the doorstep of hundreds of housing societies.
 
 Aakriti Pandey, a Sector 56 resident, said she was looking forward to the launch as it would mean an end to auto rides that she does not like. “Right now, many of us have to travel to Sikanderpur to catch Delhi Metro, and are forced to travel by autos, which is inconvenient as auto drivers are rude and prone to overcharging,” she said.
 
 Rapid Metro will run seven new three-coach Siemens-manufactured rakes in its Phase-2 corridor. The rakes will be the same as those that run in Phase-1. Each train can carry 760 passengers. In the first phase, Rapid Metro runs trains at a frequency of four-five minutes. It’s unlikely to change for Phase-2.
 
 
