PANAJI: On counting day, election results of the chief minister’s constituency of Mandrem will be among the first to be declared. Mandrem, Siolim, Mapusa, Calangute, Aldona, Taleigao, Poriem, St Andre, Bicholim and   are the first ten assembly constituencies that will be taken up for counting.

 Counting of postal ballots will begin at 8am followed by   at 8:30am. The final result for each constituency will not be declared until postal ballots are counted and added to the total count, district election officer and North Goa collector, Nila Mohanan said. 
 
 Of the total 8,469 postal ballots issued in North Goa to government staff and police on election duty, 3,322 have been received by post and through facilitation centres. Apart from this, drop boxes kept at the returning officer’s (RO) offices are yet to be opened, Mohanan said. She estimated that 75% of those issued postal ballots have cast their votes. They still have time until early morning on March 11 to send in their votes, Mohanan added.
 
 From 3pm onwards on Friday evening the ROs of each constituency will bring in their trunks bearing postal ballots and place them in a special strong room for postal ballots. These will be taken out for counting on Saturday.
 
 Around 1,000 staff, including 400 security personnel, have been deployed on counting duty on Saturday. 
 
 Executive magistrates and special additional district magistrates will be deployed at every taluka to supervise law and order on that day. 
 
 Flying squad teams and accounting teams will also be on duty that day since expenditure incurred on the day of counting will also be factored in the expenditure of the candidates. 
 
 Orders have already been issued for the closure of the road from Bal Ganesh shrine to the fire services headquarters, from 6am till counting is over. Only residents of the area and emergency vehicles will be permitted on the road from the fire services entrance. 
 
 Section 144 of the CrPC has been imposed and no hotels, restaurants or kiosks will be permitted to operate within 200m of Bal Bhavan on the day of counting. Counting day has been declared as a dry day right from midnight on Friday till counting is done with on Saturday.
 
 The entire process of counting will be held under the supervision of general observers, who arrived in Goa on Thursday evening.
 
 
