Visakhapatnam / Vizianagaram: More than 8.3 lakh metric tonnes of solid waste is being dumped in the two districts of Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram per annum, says reports from the District Environment Boards. 

 In Visakhapatnam, 3.6 lakh metric tonnes is generated per annum and 2.7 lakh metric tonnes of solid waste is generated in Vizianagaram district. 
 
 As per reports, close to 10% of the entire solid waste is plastic which does not meet the 50 micron standards, meaning roughly 86,000 metric tonnes of dangerous   does not meet the Central Pollution Control Board norms. 
 
 Professor AJ Solomon Raju, department of environmental studies Andhra University, said, “Plastic waste management is a greater threat to rural environment today. The sheer volume of solid waste generated would amount to 2 lakh metric tonnes of plastic waste per individual at an average of 500 kilos per rural family, per annum. Of this, 10% would be plastic waste most of which does not meet the 50 micron standard that is about 20,000 tonnes of harmful plastic.”
 
 R Lakshmi Narayana, district environmental engineer, Visakhapatnam, said, “Plastic menace is growing by the day. Most plastics are in total violation of the 2016 norms of CPCB, which clearly states that plastic vendors must register themselves, meet the 50 microns norm and pay registration sums to local bodies wherever they sell.” 
 
 In Vizianagaram, however, Bobbili municipality, which has banned sale of plastic bags and pouches for over four years is an exception. The District Pollution Control Board has taken steps to educate the public and segregate plastic at the source. District Environment Engineer K Laksmipati Kumar said, “The situation is bad but we are conducting awareness camps, door-to-door campaigns in association with municipalities and local bodies to ensure that people do not burn plastic. The programme has just started. Bobbili Municipal Corporation has set a great example by banning plastic covers in the municipal limits. Bobbili has become a hub for recycling plants with 10.” 
 
 Professor Solomon Raju said while Vizianagaram district has 10 recycling plants, Visakhapatnam has only three. However, the population of Visakhapatnam district is almost twice that of Vizianagaram.
 
 
