MYSURU: A city bank manager may be lucky enough to escape from a tree fall on Friday. But still,   is lurking all over the city as many trees and their   are sagging dangerously, posing threat to road users. It seems   are yet to wake up to the threat.

 When two women were crushed to death under a huge peepal tree outside   Palace compound wall was uprooted two years ago, the civic agency announced to form a team comprising officials from forest, civic and police departments to identify trees that are posing danger. The plan was to prune such trees and branches to prevent deaths or injuries to people. The team, however, never took shape and the idea was dropped subsequently. 
 
 Mysuru city has witnessed several incidents of tree fall (following pre-monsoon showers) wherein properties, including vehicles, were damaged. Luckily, there has been no casualty. But it looks like the authorities concerned are waiting for another tragedy to happen to take necessary measures. 
 
 Some of the trees and their branches in front of Mysuru Palace, close to the police commissioner’s office and   in the heart of the city, are either hanging precariously or have dried up. They may prove dangerous if left unattended. 
 
 An official attached to Mysuru City Corporation claimed that there is no direction to regularly check/ prune/ remove old trees. If they receive any complaints from the public in this regard, steps will be taken in consultation with the forest department or officers of the respective MCC zonal offices. Three teams have been formed to attend to any emergency, including cases of tree fall, across Mysuru, the official added. 
 
 Sources claim that both civic and forest officials are shirking responsibility despite damage to lives and properties. “MCC staff won’t take up pruning works on their own until they receive complaints. Forest officials say they have given permission to the civic agency to remove branches or avenue trees, including those in parks, if they are posing a threat. Instead of taking precautions, the civic authorities are only attending to complaints/ incidents. Their apathy could prove costly to road users, including tourists,” sources added.
 
 
