THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The police top brass is divided over the way  , the main accused in the kidnap and rape of the actor in Kochi, was arrested from the courtroom.   congratulated the police officers but diplomatically didn't delve into the details of the arrest. “Investigation is not magic, it is a mind game“, he said.

 Most top police officials whom TOI spoke to are generally of the opinion that what the police did was reckless.“There have been incidents when the accused who has every right to surrender before a court was arrested from court premises. In fact, in one of the cases in Alappuzha, the arrest of an accused came in for severe objection from the advocates and the judiciary but the police got away after the judge took a larger picture of the whole event and the related case. But in this case, the arrest was made from inside the court by dragging the accused out using brutal force,“ a senior officer said.
 
 Another officer compared the police action with a mob forcefully acquitting an accused from the police station.“Here, instead of the mob, it was policemen who intruded into the judiciary's turf,“ he said.
 
 Officers are of the opinion that the incident didn't give any professional benefit for the police force, instead it gave leeway to the accused to make allegations before the judiciary that the police assaulted them physically. “Court is an institution and to argue that arresting the accused from a courtroom when the court is not functioning is not a justification. If after all the tight security outside the court, the accused could enter the court, then it is our incapability and the next course of action should be to take them into custody from the judiciary,“ an officer, who was part of investigation of T P Chandrasekharan murder case, said.
 
 Former state police chief K J Joseph didn't completely criticise the police action. “The accused also had not entered properly into the court complex. They wore helmets and jumped into the compound and literally ran to the courtroom.Even if they were not the accused in this case, the policemen are duty-bound to arrest them for intruding inside the court,“ he said. However, he said that the arrest of the accused is not a matter of credit for the police. “It was a lastditch attempt by the police,“ he said. The arrest is the duty of police officials said former state police chief  . “The police will arrest an accused if he is on the run while being chased and then enters a court for seeking refuge,“ he said.
 
