Nagpur: City-based   (MAFSU) would be conferring honorary Doctor of Science (DSc) on the   (RSS) supremo Mohan Bhagat. The prestigious degree would be conferred on Thursday during university’s eight convocation to be conducted at Dr   hall at 10am.

 It would be the first honorary degree to be bestowed by the university, ever since it started operations in the year 2000 from Nagpur. 
 
 Chief minister   would be chief guest of the function where candidates passing out from April 10, 2015, to February 15, this year, would be conferred with degrees, including BVSc and AH, BTech, BFSc, MVSc and PhD.
 
 Union road transport and shipping minister Nitin Gadkari, and state minister of animal husbandry, dairy development and fisheries, Mahadeorao Jankar (also MAFSU pro-chancellor) would share the dais.   research and Education (DARE) secretary Trilochan Mahapatra, who is also the director general of Indian Council for Agriculture Research (ICAR) would deliver the convocation address.
 
 Confirming the development, vice chancellor Aditya Kumar Misra said the RSS chief, who granted his consent for receiving the degree, is likely to be conferred by chancellor Ch Vidyasagar Rao. “His name was recommended by the associations of veterinians and Nagpur Veterinary College (NVC) alumni association. They all wanted to honour him, as he was product of that college. Our administration then tabled the proposal in our Academic Council where it was not only unanimously cleared but was much appreciated. Later our Executive Council cleared it before the chancellor gave his assent,” he told TOI.
 
 Explaining the reason behind selecting the RSS chief, the VC said his immense contribution to the field of veterinary sciences besides lots of social work being carried out by the RSS under his able leadership were the main factors behind the decision. “A lot of books are penned by him on several issues concerning the veterinary sciences and also set up large number of gau shalas.”
 
 Misra, however, admitted that usually Bhagwat doesn’t accept any awards and also avoids attending such functions. “But he gave his consent, as he belonged to this field. Recently, the NVC organized a get-together of all alumni which was attended by Bhagwat. He stayed with us for over two hours and also visited hostel room, where he used to stay.”
 
 Noted economist Shriniwas Khandewale ruled any political angle to conferment of the degree on the RSS Sanghalchalak. “First of all, he belonged to same field and no one can deny his contribution to the social causes. It is university’s prerogative to bestow honorary degrees on persons they feel are best ones,” he said.
 
 
