PUNE:   in  ,   will be imparted to over 1.5 lakh students, who failed in these subjects in class IX in April 2016 and students, who scored less than 45% marks, in the   of the current academic year. Maths, Science and English are usually   in which class IX students fail.

 All schools, including the state board, CBSE, ICSE and other boards, will train students, who have failed in class IX, through rapid education method for a period of two months so that they may attempt the February-March 2017 board exam.
 
 The state education department has encouraged schools to make use of digital platforms to train the students apart from seeking subject experts' help. As ma ny as 1.5 lakh students failed in April 2016 and will undergo the rapid training. Schools will also have to provide a database of students, who failed in class IX to the state government.
 
 At the time of starting the rapid education initiative for class IX, a list of students who failed in the annual exam in 2016 and secured less than 45% in the midterm exam should be prepared by each class teacher. For students, who secured less than 45%, the experience, reflection, application and consolidation (ERAC) method can be adopted, the education department has suggested.
 
 “In this method, the ERAC parameters of teachers will come into practice. The teachers should divide activities over a period of two months in which 15 days can be dedicated to finding the weakness and application of teaching methods, 30 days for self-study and 15 days for problem solving, among others,“ said principal secretary , State School Education and Sports Department, Nand Kumar.
 
 A total of 1,54,381 students failed the April 2016 exam in class IX as per data available with the education department. Kumar said that there are several situations in which students repeat the class, while some may attempt the class X board examination by filing an external form. Moreover, a student may also choose to drop out of education. “We have asked schools to state reasons why each of the student has failed and submit the same to the department by January 31,“ Kumar added.
 
 According to the senior official, the aim of the exercise is to empower the academically poor students so they can clear the examinations for both class IX and X.
 
