NEW DELHI: The size of the government girls’ school in  ,  , has tripled in the past few months. From 86, the school has around 182 rooms at present—and a vast green cover in the middle gives it a “private school” feeling. Inside, gleaming floors and crisp, white-washed rooms await furniture. 

 The scene is in stark contrast to the older block—where two classes are partitioned with a wall—and are cramped with desk sets pushed edge-to-edge. The school principal, Sushma Toppo, said she had to fit around 60 students in one room, but once they moved into the new block, she might be able to accommodate the students comfortably. “There are 96 rooms in the new block, in addition to the ones in the old block. So it shouldn’t be a problem,” she added. 
 
 PWD officials, who oversaw the construction of the new block, said the total expanse of the school is now 15,000 sq metre. “More than half of that area is open and green. It will be difficult to find a government school with this kind of space,” said Pratap Singh, PWD executive engineer.
 
 However, until last year, there was only a row of classrooms covered with tin sheets. “Now, there are three storeys, with 40 classes, 12 bathrooms, a library, labs and activity halls,” Singh told TOI. He added that a little bit of work was left besides landscaping, following which the furniture will be delivered. 
 
 Though the new block has ramps for physically challenged students, it has no lifts. According to Singh, the block cannot have lifts for just three floors, but classes can be arranged on the ground floor for such kids, if need be. “The current building also doesn’t have a lift. So, we bring the classes to the ground floor for the Class X student and will do the same in the new block,” Toppo said. 
 
 While the school looks spacious and equipped, the principal has her reservations about its strength. “They have used concrete blocks, not bricks. Also, the beam ceilings don’t look sturdy. The building was made in a rush. We will judge only once it is handed over,” she said. However, Singh clarified that the it was an RCC (reinforced cement concrete) structure and blocks used were known for being lightweight. 
 
 The work is a part of the government’s push to create 8,000 new rooms in schools to tackle to space crunch. New blocks have been constructed in 200 government schools so far.
 
