JAIPUR: Accepting the  , the   on Saturday rolled back the   effective from September last year on  .
Farmers will now have to pay 90 paise per unit instead of Rs 1.15 per unit.
 
 The rollback will result in an additional burden of Rs 500 crore to the state exchequer, said power minister  .
 
 This is in addition to the government expenditure of Rs 12,000 crore towards cross subsidy and Rs 5,500 crore towards the Udhay Bond of Rs 60,000 crore issued to bail out the three power distribution companies which are reeling under the accumulated loss of Rs 1lakh crore. Rajasthan dis coms are the highest lossmaking power distribution companies in the country at present. About 40% of power in Rajasthan is consumed by the agriculture sector. Addressing a press conference here, the power minister said that famers would now get power at the earlier rate of 90 paise per unit instead of Rs 1.15. And for meter-less connections, the flat rate would be Rs 85 per HP instead of Rs 120 per HP.
 
 He said the government would bear the additional burden on this count.
 
 The difference amount of farmers who paid bills as per the new rates will be adjusted in their future bills, the minister said. Farmers at many places in the state were protesting against the power tariff hike. The Kisan Mahapanchayat, which had given a call to lay siege to the assembly on February 23, has now postponed the agitation.
 
 The minister also announced many sops for the farmers which, he claimed, are based on the feedback received from party workers and public representatives.
 
 He said that at present, a farmer could get his agricul ture connection shifted only at the panchayat samiti level.Now he would be able to do so at the district level.
 
 Similarly , civil liabilities and penalties imposed on the basis of vigilance checking reports (VCRs) in power theft cases have also been reduced.Besides, the VCR monitoring committees will have to address the farmers' grievances within 15 days. Also, no load inspection will be carried out if the meter is found functional. The minister further said that farmers who could not deposit their demand notices for agriculture connections on time will get another chance to deposit the same. The government has decided to stop load upgrading without demand from farmers. The government has also announced a subsidy for load checking of pumps up to 5 HP capacity . This would benefit around 5 lakh farmers, claimed the minister. He added that discoms would organise grievance redressal camps at panchayat and sub-divisional levels.
 
