PUNE: It pays to vote today. For the indelible mark on your finger could fetch you loads of freebies – from beverages to desserts to non-alcoholic shots to fabulous discounts on restaurant bills, and much more. All you have to do is to step out and vote. The earlier you are at the polling booth, the better. For, there are some exciting gifts offered by some outlets for the early birds.

 In a bid to increase voter turnout, close to 1000 restaurants under the Pune Restaurants and   (PRAHA) have decided to offer free desserts to visitors who cast their vote on Tuesday.
 
 The Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI) has also requested all its restaurant and hotel members in the state to offer discounts on food bills and bookings made between February 21 and 23.
 
 Restaurants in Pune have also been prominently displaying posters asking the patrons to exercise their franchise, apart from encouraging the practice on social media platforms.
 
 President of PRAHA Ganesh Shetty told TOI that close to a 1000 restaurants in the city have decided to serve an on-the-house dessert to voters who visit their restaurants on February 21. “A request has been made to all PRAHA members to create awareness about exercising the right to franchise in PMC elections and rewarding those who cast their ballots. We had also requested all members to prominently display posters on voting rights on their premises. The posters were sent to them by PRAHA. We need to create more awareness on voting rights in order to get responsible governance in our wards, because bad governance affects us all,” said Shetty.
 
 Vikram Shetty, owner, Sadanand Regency and vice-president of PRAHA, said, “Certain restaurants are giving 10% off on bills to those who vote, while some others are giving a free dessert to voters. Some city lounges are also giving free, non-alcoholic shots to visitors who show the indelible voting mark on their fingers.”
 
 Praful Chandawarkar, owner of Malaka Spice,  , said that over the last few days, the restaurant has been doing its bit to encourage voting as per the PRAHA initiative in the form of posters in restaurants and promotion on social media platforms. “We want right representatives for all the wards, which is why voting as a right should be exercised by everybody. We have therefore unanimously decided to reward those who exercise this right by offering them a free dessert,” said Chandawarkar.
 
 Neerav Panchamia, chief operating executive, the ESQUARE Hotel at ESQUARE, said, “We are giving a free welcome beverage to all guests who show that they have voted. Though voting is our birth right, not many exercise it, due to many limitations. It is our small gesture of appreciation to those who have done their constitutional duty.”
 
 Kunal Mhaske, director, Penthouse Lounge in Koregaon Park, said, “We want everybody to be a part of change and do something for their city and country. Hence, we promise a free dessert to voters on the voting day.”
 
 The HRAWI, meanwhile, has also jumped on the bandwagon to increase voter turnout. The association has requested all its restaurant and hotel members to offer discounts on food bills and bookings made between February 21 and 23. The move is aimed at increasing the turnout, particularly in urban areas, which as of now is below 55 per cent. The letter also advices members to ensure that their staff members be educated about the importance of voting and encourage them to go and vote along with their family members on the day.
 
 “Every vote counts and every voter who turns out to vote reflects the health of the democracy. The hotel industry has come together to promote and to co-operate in the EC’s objective of increasing the voter turnout on February 21. We urge all citizens to step out and cast their votes and as a gesture of appreciation to those who do, hotels and restaurants affiliated with us will offer them a discount on their bookings and food bills,” said Dilip Datwani, president, HRAWI.
 
 Avani Davda, managing director, Godrej Nature’s Basket, meanwhile said, “We believe that voting is a constitutional right and we encourage our employees and customers to exercise this. As a responsible organisation, which believes in the power of democracy, we have decided to keep our outlets closed till 1pm on Tuesday.”
 
 
