Mumbai: The   on Wednesday asked whether the   ice cream ad, which   has challenged as being disparaging to its  , can now say “vanaspati tel yani vegetable oil”. It made one more suggestion after HUL counsel Birendra Saraf said even the level of oil shown in the Amul television commercial be reduced, among other changes. 

 But Amul counsel Ravi Kadam said it would put the suggestion regarding the change of line to  , which makes Amul ice creams. The ad is still on air even as the heated battle over the cool summer treats continues in court on Thursday. The contention of HUL is that since the Amul ad asks viewers not to eat products that contain vanaspati oil, it is disparaging frozen desserts.
 
 Amul’s counsel Kadam said that its ad doesn’t denigrate HUL’s frozen desserts as they contain vegetable oil. Kadam, who was making his submissions in court, cited Oxford dictionary meaning for vanaspati tel to mean vegetable oil, an ingredient which HUL admits its frozen desserts contain and which HUL says is healthy. “Once HUL says vegetable oil is healthy, then the ad cannot be said to be disparaging,” said Amul counsel Kadam, who stressed that it can legally highlight one or two aspects of a product in a commercial as long as it is truthful. He said since HUL uses ‘vegetable oil’ in its frozen desserts, the Amul ice cream commercial merely states a fact.
 
 The commercial says it in Hindi as “vanaspati tel” and HUL cannot say “vanaspati tel is the same as ‘vanaspati’ and that public at large don’t know the dictionary meaning of vanaspati tel”. Kadam said, “We are entitled to show the difference between ice cream and frozen dessert. Ours is an ice cream made only of milk and there is a frozen dessert which also contains vegetable oil.”
 
 Earlier, HUL counsel Virag Tulzapurkar had argued at length and cited half a dozen judgments to show that the Amul commercial disparages frozen desserts by saying it contains vanaspati tel with an intention to imply that frozen dessert is thus harmful for health. HUL said the Amul ad was misleading and Amul said it would prove that it wasn’t. On Wednesday, Saraf also said that when Amul says that theirs is a pure product, they are implying that HUL’s isn’t.
 
 
