ISLAMABAD/NEW DELHI:  , adviser on foreign affairs to the Pakistani PM, persisted with the Pakistani claim that Jadhav was a serving Indian Navy officer even though India has said he had retired from service some time back. Aziz claimed that Jadhav was provided legal assistance though the military court, largely used for summary trials of terrorists, is not open to any outside scrutiny. 

  claimed that Jadhav had “sponsored” explosions of gas pipelines and electric pylons in Sibi and Sui areas in   and also plotted IED explosions in Quetta in 2015 causing “massive” damage to life and property. But it did not explain the basis for these conclusions as the proceedings of the military court are in any case secret.
 
 
 
 Aziz said Jadhav’s options included right to appeal within 40 days to an appellate court. “He may lodge a mercy petition to the chief of army staff within 60 days of the decision by the appellate court. He may lodge a mercy petition to the president of Pakistan within 90 days after the decision of the COAS,” he said.
 
 India demanded consular access to Jadhav yet again after being repeatedly rebuffed. The Pakistani foreign secretary said since this was an “espionage” case, consular access could not be granted but Bambawale said under international law it must be granted.
 
 “I have asked for a certified copy of the chargesheet as well as the judgment in the death sentence of  ,” Bambawale told the media.
 
 Aziz though claimed due process had been followed. “We condemn the baseless allegations from India, especially in the light of the fact that it was non-cooperation and lack of Indian response to Pakistan’s request for legal assistance, due to which consular access has not been provided to Jadhav. May I mention in this context that India has not allowed consular access to many Pakistani prisoners for many years despite repeated requests,” he said.
 
 
 
 India has demanded a certified copy of the chargesheet and is planning to appeal the judgment even as Pakistan detailed Jadhav’s alleged espionage activities in the country.
 
 The government also sought consular access to Jadhav for the 14th time as Indian high commissioner to Pakistan Gautam Bambawale met Pakistani foreign secretary Tehmina Janjua on Friday afternoon and said India would appeal the verdict on Jadhav’s behalf.
 
 Soon after the meeting, Sartaj Aziz issued a statement detailing how the case had proceeded against Jadhav.
 
 On Thursday, Pakistan had declared it would not make any “compromise” on Jadhav’s death sentence. The decision was made at a corps commanders’ conference presided over by army chief Qamar Bajwa at the General Headquarters in Rawalpindi.
 
 In what seems like a bid to create an equivalence, Pakistan formally pointed fingers at India for ‘luring’ retired Pakistani army officer Lt Col Muhammad Habib Zahir, who has been missing since April 6 from Lumbini in Nepal near India’s border.“He was lured after being offered a job. The role of foreign spy agencies cannot be ruled out,” Pakistani foreign office spokesperson Nafees Zakaria said.
 
