CHENNAI: Airports Authority of India’s (AAI) attempt to provide pick-up points and parking space to app-based taxis has run into rough weather as the airport prepaid meter taxi service drivers have raised a flag of protest.

 More than 200 taxi drivers who operate the black and yellow cars staged a protest in front of the domestic terminal and were detained on Wednesday. The prepaid taxis also did not ply for a day.
 
 Refusing to be competitive and having failed to evolve their business model with time, these taxi operators prevent app-based cabs from becoming a permanent fixture at the airport as the drivers who run the 304 cars round-the-clock claim that it will affect their livelihood. The protest and one-day strike was staged after AAI allotted space to app-based taxis to park and operate inside the airport.
 
 “The way passengers book taxis has changed. We have three approved taxi operators. But after   and Uber became popular, people book cabs on their apps because they are 50% cheaper than taxi companies licensed by us,” said an AAI official.
 
 “This is unfair competition. We operate cars at a fixed fare determined by the state government. Our taxi service should not be allowed to die because we are reliable and are available 24 hours unlike the app taxis which do not ply at the slightest hint of rain or storm. The demand for our cabs go up when app-based taxis resort to surge pricing,” prepaid taxi driver E Durai said.
 
 The drivers are clueless about tackling the competition and are planning to take on the rivals legally. “We will collect the losses incurred by us, the drawbacks of app-taxis and present them in court. The drivers took loans and bought new cars after AAI wanted us to change the Ambassador cars,” drivers’ union secretary   said.
 
 “The parking space allotted for 40 app-based vehicles is only on a trial basis. We have decided to give space because of demand from passengers. We have not allotted counters. AAI will soon float a tender and allot space and counters for them in the future. App-based taxis are allowed in Kolkata and seven AAI airports,” airport director   said. The app-taxis pay Rs15 lakh per month for using parking space and to do business inside airport premises. “We are with the prepaid taxis at the airport. We are ready to talk to the RTOs to allow rebranding of the black and white taxis and also to allow flexi fares,” Chandramouli said.
 
 When app-taxis first started to arrive at the airport, the prepaid drivers prevented them from parking, snatched keys from the drivers and even chased them out of campus.
 
