HOWRAH ( ): It’s a   song that blares from the prayer hall of this school where a group of students rehearse for a dance performance on Thursday. But the song is the one that invokes the Bharat Ma. Sarada Sishu Mandir in Uluberia’s Tantiberia, perceived to be close to   affiliates, is in the eye of a storm. The students, however, have no inkling about the government’s plan to tighten grip over schools run by three private trusts reportedly close to RSS affiliates.

 With the school’s two-day annual function due on Friday and Saturday, the students were busy with the preparations. Waving the Tricolour, they rehearsed to A R Rehman’s ‘Maa Tujhe Salaam’. 
 
 And then it was time for roll call. “Upasthit (present please),” responded Class-II student Sneha Koyal to the attendance call by the class teacher, and then she chanted ‘Bharat Mata Ki Jai’ before taking seat.
 
 In fact, every student has to chant ‘Bharat Mata Ki Jai’ every day at the start of the class. From the school prayer to the physical education session, Indian culture is promoted everywhere. Call it RSS influence or inculcating Indian values into young minds, the way the schools are being run by   (VVP) has drawn the attention of the state government.
 
 “The school chain believes in promoting discipline, moral values and giving the students quality education. If teaching the students Indian values is called RSS influence, I do not know what to say,” the school’s teacher in charge   Kanrar said.
 
 An RSS member himself, Kanrar, however, said the school has nothing to do with RSS or any other political party.
 
 Along with cricket and football, all the 312 schools in Bengal run by VVP are also taught Yoga. Once a week, they have to perform ‘Surya Namaskar’ and they are discouraged to bring non-vegetarian food to school. 
 
 “We have students from other communities too. If the parents had problem with the kids singing ‘Saraswati Vandana’ or doing the ‘Surya Namaskar’, I am sure they would not have sought admission of their children here,” said Shyansundar Pal, treasurer of the school.
 
 
