SALEM: A man who suffered a hip fracture was refused by the   super specialty hospital to be treated as an in-patient and was asked to leave. Since he was not in a condition to walk, he spent spent three harrowing days on the roadside with his two young children until the collector intervened to get him admitted to the hospital. 

 M Balu, 40, of M Chettipatty  , who used to work as a private ambulance driver, had to give up his job when he developed tuberculosis. Even as he was struggling to make both ends meet, he had a fall in the bathroom a few days ago and suffered a hip bone fracture. Being a TB patient, his condition deteriorated. Balu had been staying with his two sons after his wife separated from him about eight years ago. 
 
 Seeing their father’s plight, his sons Rohith, 13, and Dharun, 10, managed to take him to the Salem government super specialty hospital in a bus on July 10. During the check-up, doctors found a fracture in his hip joint, prescribed tablets and advised him to come back after a week. 
 
 But Balu’s sons requested the doctors to admit him to the hospital as he was having severe pain. “Also, we found it difficult to take him home and then bring him back again,” they said. However, the hospital staff refused to admit him.
 
 Left with no other option, the trio decided to stay on the hospital premises. But the security staff chased them out. Unable to travel back home, they settled down on the roadside pavement. “We did not have enough money. We, however, managed to get from Amma canteen,” the children said.
 
 When some media persons visited the hospital on Thursday, Rohith and Dharun approached them and explained their father’s plight. The media persons immediately alerted collector V Sampath.
 
 The collector contacted the hospital dean Dr. P Kanagaraj and asked him to admit Balu to the hospital at the earliest. Balu was shifted to the hospital by Thursday afternoon and he is being provided advanced treatment.
 
 “The collector has instructed us to give good treatment to Balu,” the dean said.
 
 Balu, his sons said, was jobless for a while. “Due to TB, I could not continue as driver. It is very hard for me to run the family without money,” Balu told TOI. 
 
 Rohith is a Class VIII student and Dharun a   of a government school near Omalur.
 
