CHENNAI: It all started in 1999 when the   government, along with the Airports Authority of India (AAI), decided to develop a new international airport in Chennai. Ever since there has been a series of tragedy of errors.

 The state government entrusted the   (TIDCO) with identifying the land for the project and Scott Wilson Kirkpatric, was appointed as technical consultant for the same. Five locations — Manapakkam belt, West Tambaram, Maraimalai, Sriperumbudur and areas near Vandalur — were identified. However AAI preferred the land near Pozichalur/Anakaputhur/Cowl Bazar, making the technical consultant irrelevant. This option had to be dropped for political reasons. AAI then chose two sites — Manapakkam belt and Sriperumbudur. The state government issued a GO in this regard in 2007. Now, the Sriperumbudur project has also been shelved.
 
 The irony is that it is the public that suffers due to government’s indecisiveness. Residents of Sriperumbudur, whose pieces of land were notified for the project, had to suffer for almost 10 years. Both time and money spent on land identification, acquisition and feasibility studies (by International Civil Aviation Organisation) went down the drain. The government will now repeat the same ritual. 
 
 Meanwhile, the existing airport was expanded by adding two terminal buildings and extending the second runway. The estimated cost of Rs1,808 crore was revised to Rs2,500 crore. The passenger handling capacity was increased to 23million after expansion.
 
 Now, AAI wants to spend another Rs2,500 crore on phase II expansion to demolish the old buildings and construct an integrated terminal. AAI says that this will increase the passenger handling capacity to 30 million per year. As per an AAI traffic forecast for 2014-2015 to 2025-2026, the maximum passenger movement will be 25.67million in 2025-2026. The new terminals built under phase I expansion should take care of this. 
 
 Any further expenditure to increase the terminal capacity will be wasteful, as a greenfield airport will be built eventually. AAI claimed that extending of second runway to 3,117metres would increase the runway capacity to 50 aircraft per hour. But, the capacity before the expansion was 36 or 40 aircraft per hour as per the Scott Wilson Kirkpatric study - enough to bring in 35 million passengers per annum. 
 
 AAI now says that the runway capacity will be increased from 32 aircraft per hour to 40 after the phase II expansion. The authorities will need to answer why they did not think of rapid exit ways, straightening the taxiway and a new parallel taxiway before spending `600crore to extend the secondary runway beyond the Adyar River.
 
 (The author has been actively campaigning against the erratic planning of Chennai airport) 
 
