After becoming the first Indian woman to win the   that was held in Italy last month, Bhumika Sharma, 21, is currently enjoying a much deserved break in her hometown Dehradun. "I wanted a break as I have to now start preparing for the Miss Universe Bodybuilding Championship. I am gorging on Doon’s chaat these days as I am allowed to eat anything right now. I want to savour my favourite dishes before I go back to my strict diet," she says. Bhumika talks about winning the title and how Doon’s fresh air and good quality food helped her prepare for the championship.

  
 
 
  She says, "Being from   helped me in winning the title. The quality of food and natural surroundings that one enjoys in Doon is simply unmatchable and difficult to find in any metropolitan city. I started my training in Delhi, but the quality of air and food available there wasn’t quite favourable for bodybuilding. I came back to Doon and started training at a gym here owned by my father. People in Doon are quite supportive and understanding of women bodybuilders."
 
  
  21-year-old Bhumika Sharma is currently enjoying a break at her home in Doon
 
 
 
 
 
 She shares, “My parents initially did not want me to pursue bodybuilding. Though my mother, Hansa Manral, was the chief coach of the Indian women’s weightlifting team, she did not see a bright future for me in the sport and wanted me to pursue shooting instead. It was later, during an event in Delhi, that I met a gym instructor who encouraged me to take up bodybuilding. He showed me videos of women bodybuilders and that’s when I decided to pursue it as a career. I requested my mother to allow me to take up the sport. Seeing my passion, she allowed me and even helped me in training." 
 
  
 
 
  Sharing about her journey of becoming the first woman bodybuilder to win a gold medal internationally, Bhumika says, "It was a great experience to be a part of the championship, which was held in Venice from June 17 to June 18. The best part was to see India’s flag being hoisted at the top.”
 
  
  Bhumika after winning the Miss World Bodybuilding Championship title
 
 
 
 
  “I was awestruck when I saw women bodybuilders from European countries. They all were so passionate and the best part was that they had full support of their families and government. This support is something that we lack in India. In other countries, the government secures the future of   but in our country, the focus is only on cricket stars."
  
  She adds, "When I met other bodybuilders from European countries, they had this perspective that bodybuilding would be the last thing on an Indian woman’s mind. My win has broken this stereotype and proved them wrong." 
 
  
 
  Talking about how a strong body helped her become a more confident individual, she says, "It is important that a girl is physically fit, only then will she be able to take a stand for herself. If you are physically fit, you automatically gain confidence.”
 
 
 
 
  Bhumika says, "People are not used to seeing a girl with a body like mine, so they would often pass comments on my physique. When you start  , the body starts getting a little buffed up, but people don’t understand that and they pass nasty comments."
 
 --Akshita.Vohra@timesgroup.com
