GURUGRAM:   is working on an alternative route between   and   to decongest the  . The new route will connect Southern Peripheral Road ( ) with  ,   the Kherki Daula toll plaza, largely benefitting commuters coming from the Faridabad side.

 At present, SPR connects with NH-8 around one km ahead of the Kherki Daula toll plaza. Under the new plan, the alternative route will start from the road dividing sectors 75 and 75A, and it will connect NH-8 near Sector 83 through the road diving sectors 76-77. Some developers, who have their projects in these areas, have come forward to help the urban development authority construct the road.
 
 With the completion of this road, people coming from Faridabad side through SPR can directly go to Manesar without having to cross the Kherki Daula plaza and pay the toll. It will also give a boost to several real estate projects being developed along SPR, which is on the verge of completion.
 
 “We have taken possession of the land required to construct the roads of sectors 75, 76 and 77 after completing the acquisition process, which was stuck due to litigation. We have levelled the land so that till the time the metal road is constructed, people can use this route, if they wish,” Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav told TOI on Tuesday. He, however, refused to give any timeline for completion of the road, only assuring to complete the project on priority basis.
 
 Yadav said Huda has engaged a consulting firm that will prepare the estimate within the next two weeks for the construction of these sector roads. “Once the estimate is ready, we will start the process for construction of the road,” he said, adding, “some builders have shown interest in constructing this road against adjustment of their pending external development charges (EDC)”.
 
 Welcoming the development, Manav Gopal, head of sales & marketing of MAPSKO Group, said, “The new link road bypassing the Kherki Daula toll plaza will connect new Gurgaon with SPR, thus reducing headache and commutating time for residents and enhance the connectivity of that area. The long queues at the toll plaza were the main hindrance for people not opting for residential properties in new Gurgaon. So, in other words, it will boost the real estate sector in new Gurgaon tremendously.”
 
 Harinder Dhillon, VP (sales), DLF, said, “This is good news as the proposed road will decongest the expressway and allow smoother commute for the cars plying on this stretch of the expressway, which is like a new year gift for the residents of this area. The development will improve connectivity to new Gurgaon and make these upcoming sectors an even more attractive option for potential buyers.”
 
