GURUGRAM: Three drunk men created a ruckus on the premises of  , a plotted colony in  , on Monday night by allegedly blocking the society gate and not letting residents enter. Around 70 residents were forced to wait outside the society gate in their cars as the men threatened to attack them.

 “They were all drunk, and were pushing people back. They also carried huge stones in their hands and threatened to throw them at us,” said Amanjit Madan, who lives in Sector 82. When asked the men why they were creating a ruckus, they said they were doing it “because there had been no power in the area for eight hours”. The situation got worse, when the security guards fled the spot after the miscreants went on the rampage. Residents then informed cops about the developments. Though police came to their rescue, an FIR has not been filed yet even after residents insisted that it be filed. 
 
 “We submitted a written complaint to police, and asked them to register an FIR against the miscreants. But cops said we would have to go the   police station for filing an FIR, which we did even around 12 in the night. However, when we reached there, we were told that they couldn’t file a complaint as the SHO was not present,” said Hirak Das, another resident.
 
 The chief minister recently during a function in   had warned cops of stringent action against them if they delayed filing of FIRs. Residents alleged that this was not one-off incident in the area which witnessed several such problems in the recent past. 
 
 On July 14, robbers broke into one of the houses in H-10 when owners were away. “What is surprising is that the theft happened during the day. We live on independent floors and the area is not fully gated as some land is not acquired by the developer. The area is open on three sides, and this helps thieves enter the colony and commit crimes,” said  , who lives in Sector 82.
 
 Residents from the new sector also approached State PWD minister Rao Narbir Singh seeking strengthening security measures in the new sectors between 82 and 115 last week. “We asked him to look into the matter. An increase in patrolling in the area should be done, to which he responded positively. However nothing has been done yet, “said Prakahr Sahay, a resident from New Gurgaon. 
 
 When TOI contacted Kherki Daula police station to know the status of the complaint filed by residents, the police officer concerned claimed that since the area didn’t come under their jurisdiction, they didn’t know anything about what had happed in Vatika India Next. According to them, the area comes under the Sector 37 police station. However, cops at Sector 37 police station said only the I-Block of the society comes under their purview. The incident happened at G-block gate, and residents had approached the Kherki Daula police station.
 
 
