BENGALURU: What is common between parliamentarians from Karnataka like R Dhruva Narayana of  , Shobha Karandlaje of   and   of JD(S)? They are among those netas from the state who have been most active in Lok Sabha and have asked the maximum number of questions. 

  puts Dhruva Narayana, who represents Chamarajanagar, on top of the list with 491 questions. Karandlaje, who represents Udupi- Chikkamagaluru, is a close second with 488 queries, followed by Puttaraju (Mandya) with 451 questions. Cutting across party lines, younger members have scored well on many fronts, especially attendance which was higher for them than the overall average.
 
 Interestingly, Karandlaje is the most active MP from Karnataka when it comes to attendance, raising queries and participating in debates. On the other extreme are three senior MPs from the state -- H D Deve Gowda (Hassan), K H Muniyappa (Kolar), Prakash Hukkeri (Chikkodi) -- who haven’t asked a single question so far, reveals the latest data.
 
 In the Rajya Sabha, independent member Rajeev Chandrashekhar tops the list with 940 questions, followed by B K Hariprasad of Congress with 457 questions. Congress floor leader in Lok Sabha, M Mallikarjun Kharge ( ) has participated in 114 debates, the maximum by any member from the state, followed by BJP MPs Shivakumar Udasi (112) and Shobha Karandlaje (97).
 
 However, none of the 28 Karnataka MPs have recorded 100% attendance. Also, not all have actively participated in debates. According to the data, the 28 MPs from the state -- 17 from BJP, 9 from Congress and 2 from JD(S) -- have clocked 90% attendance against the overall average of 85%.
 
 Of the lot, it’s the relatively younger MPs who have been visibly present and active in Parliament. Since June 2014, Shivakumar Udasi, BJP MP from Haveri, has attended 97% of Parliament sittings and participated in 112 debates. Uttara Kannada MP Ananth Kumar Hegde has attended 95% of Parliament sittings till now, but has participated in just one debate. Bengaluru rural MP D K Suresh is the lone MP from Congress who has a healthy attendance of 94%, followed by Mallikarjun Kharge (91%) and M Veerappa Moily (91%). The average attendance of all members is around 85%.
 
 Chikkodi MP Prakash Hukkeri (35%) has the lowest attendance among Karnataka MPs, followed by Deve Gowda (54) and B Sreeramulu (54%).
 
 Experts say these statistics suggest how the MPs from the state play an active role in the House. The first hour of a sitting in the Lok Sabha is devoted to questions (Question Hour) and it’s an inherent and unfettered parliamentary right of the members. The government is put on trial during the Question Hour.
 
