Excerpts:

  
 
 Starting in 2009, half of US state legislatures have introduced bills, while 10 have adopted laws to prohibit abortion if a woman is seeking one because of the predicted sex of the foetus. The lawmakers claimed that Asian Americans were aborting female foetuses at similar rates and for similar reasons as do people in India and China. I came to know about this issue through a “documentary” on sex selection in India, hailed by women’s groups across the US as a feminist movie. I was surprised at how it misrepresented the reality in India — a majority of women were portrayed as abused, and abortion was seen as part of a cycle of violence. The only reason women have sex-selective abortions, according to the movie, is because they are beaten if they don’t. The reality is more complicated. When I conducted research about the filmmakers, I found that some of the people interviewed in the film were using misinformation about what is happening in India to lobby for abortion restrictions in the US. 
 
  
 
 The Indian American community is very diverse. We examined births among Indian Americans, and found that the overall number of boys to girls born to this group was similar to those born to Caucasian Americans. However, when we examined the second and third births, we observed that very few Indian parents who had one or two girls intervened to ensure they had a boy as their next child. But surprisingly they also intervened to have a girl when they had two boys. Sex selection by IVF and sperm-sorting is legal in the US and so the small number of people who are sex selecting could be using those methods.
 
 One plausible interpretation is that some people who are originally from India want to balance their families with at least one boy and one girl. This is also consistent with a   poll that Asian Americans were more likely to want a family consisting of a boy and a girl than other ethnic groups in the US.
 
  
 
 One problem is that women of Asian descent will be profiled. For example, doctors in a community heavily populated by people of Indian descent in Canada refuse to tell Indians the sex of their unborn children. Sex determination isn’t illegal in Canada but because of stereotypes, some doctors assume that just because a woman is from India she wants to abort a female foetus. Another problem is that the bans restrict access to reproductive care more broadly.
 
  
 
 Today in the state of Arkansas, doctors must ask every woman seeking to terminate her pregnancy whether she knows the future sex of the child and if she does, then the doctor cannot perform the procedure until they obtain all the past pregnancy records of the patient. These are delay tactics imposed on all American women even though there is no proof of even one male-biased abortion occurring in that state. Sex ratios in the US are perfectly balanced. 
 
 But in India what people should be very concerned about today are the consequences of sex selection and not just the causes. There are nearly 50 million more males in India than females. New empirical studies have found that in districts with high male surpluses, there is increased rape, child marriage, and domestic violence. The problem is that the decision of many women to abort female foetuses can harm living women and girls. So if restrictions are to be placed on women’s reproductive rights, it should be to protect living girls and women from the negative consequences of a male surplus in India.
 
  
 
 Popular perception attributes sex selection to “son preference” and “daughter aversion” but if you examine sex ratios at each birth parity, a more nuanced picture emerges. It’s only when they have one or two girls, that some people intervene. After they have one boy, they are again indifferent about the sex of their next child and willing to have a girl. 
 
 Methods used by government like cash transfers and celebration ceremonies have had limited impact. Currently, Indian law prohibits gender-based sex selection even if it is in favour of a girl. I’m not suggesting that anyone should terminate a pregnancy on the basis of the predicted sex of the child, but today there’s technology like sperm-sorting that’s non-invasive, relatively cheap, and very effective in ensuring that parents conceive girls if they want to. Government should also incentivise parents to conceive girls by permitting and possibly subsidising female-biased   to help balance the sex ratio.
 
