In the latest episode of  , Rudra thinks of ways to win the challenge of earning Rs. 25000. He goes to   for help and asks him for a business idea. Shivaay tells him what he sells is not as important as how he sells it. Rudra then decides to sell his fitness equipment and goes to the beach with Chubby. 
 
 Elsewhere, Gauri reaches Omkara's exhibition but is unable to find him around. She dreams that he takes her by the hand and introduces her proudly to everyone at the occasion. But in reality, Om is quite shocked to see her there. He makes her meet a few people. When the media spots her there, they all begin to ask her about her relationship with Om. Gauri is unable to understand them since she doesn't know English. She gives nervous replies and messes it up. Om comes and gives an excuse to take her away. He scolds her for coming and embarrassing him. 
  
 Bhavya goes to the beach where Rudra is selling his fitness equipment. She gives Rs. 800 to him for his participation in the mission. Rudra also gives her the money he has earned from the devices he sold. Bhavya tells him she hopes it is all hard-earned. Rudra assures her it is. They go back home. 
 
  
  
 Gauri too returns crying. She tells Shivay how she regrets going to the exhibition as Om was embarrassed to have her around. She could not understand what the media was saying and tells him now he knows why she doesn't deserve to be in Om's life. Shivaay consoles her and tells her it wasn't her fault since she asked the press to speak in Hindi, but they didn't. He promises to make the situation better by talking to Om. 
  
 While massaging Shivaay's head, Dadi asks him about  . Shivaay tells her they are in touch over the phone and she would be back in two days. Dadi talks about the joy of writing romantic letters, which is lost now. Shivaay takes note of it and goes to his room. He begins to write a letter when Dadi catches hold of him and begins to tease him for the same. 
  
 Keep watching this space for more updates on Ishqbaaz. 
 
 
  
  
 
