NEW DELHI: One night a few days ago, Sheela saw a group of   fighting among themselves at India Gate. “If I was dressed in civilian clothes, I would not have dared go near them,” said the 23-year-old. “But in my  , I shouted at them and they scooted from the spot.”

 When she first reported for work at the police station two years ago, Sheela had walked in, nervous and unsure. Today, she patrols the streets as a member of one of the five all-women PCR teams that Delhi Police launched a few months ago to respond to calls from   on the Himmat phone app. And just as Sheela feels empowered by her uniform, she wants to similarly encourage Delhi’s women by giving them a sense of safety on the roads.
 
 Among her mates in the PCR vans are experienced officers who wanted to do more than just clerical work in the force. Sub-inspector Devki Joshi, nodal officer for the five all-women teams, is a veteran with 32 years of service under her belt, having joined Delhi Police at the age of 19. “I was among the first women police officers posted with Delhi Police,” Joshi said. “And since then, things have changed drastically for women. Today, my senior, ACP (traffic-central range) Surjit Malik, is even pushing for a crèche.”
 
 Joshi zealously looks out for her team members. Constable Suman, stationed at Jesus and Mary College in central Delhi, testified happily that whether it was a problem at home or with a patrol vehicle, Joshi sorted it out herself without taking the problem to a senior officer. “The girls don’t always step forward with their grievances,” admitted Dependra Pathak, special commissioner (Operations). “But we have noticed that when they have a woman senior, conveying their complaints becomes easier.”
 
 Head constable Parmeeta wakes up at 4.30 am to prepare for her 9am-4pm duty at Jesus and Mary College. Before leaving home she sends her children to school and prepares food for her husband. Earlier as a clerk in Delhi Police, she woke up at 4am and had longer working hours. And while she does not regret that stint, volunteering for the all-women PCR initiative has given her the chance to live her policing dream.
 
 One of the women said that they mostly receive calls from on-campus students. The three members of each PCR team are often the first respondents at an emergency scene. “Our job doesn’t get over after taking the necessary action,” she said. “We also counsel the girls. We frequently come across women who want to share their problems with us.”
 
 Delhi Police had trained and employed five teams in the New Delhi zone, but given the demand for more such PCR vans, senior officers confirmed that their number will be increased, the next target area being north-west Delhi in view of the large number of students living in the region. And to ensure the women  ' visibility on the streets, they will also begin using Scooties while patrolling.
 
 
