RANCHI: The   (RMC) has collected a revenue of almost Rs 16 crore ever since the announcement of   on November 8 last year. Municipal commissioner   on Monday said, a day before the last day of submission of self-assessment forms for properties, the RMC has collected over Rs 1.5 crore as revenue on Monday. 

 "Out of the 1.30 lakh forms we had distributed, we received 77,533 forms, taking the total revenue collection to Rs 15.98 crore," Kumar said. 
 
 A huge rush was observed at the corporation on Tuesday. To ease out the rush, RMC officials have decided to keep the office open till 8pm instead of the usual 5pm on Tuesday and Wednesday. An additional revenue of at least Rs 15 crore from bulk holdings and another Rs 10 to Rs 15 crore from individual holdings is still expected to arrive. 
 
 The corporation has divided the holdings into two types, individual holdings and bulk holdings. While an individual holding number will be given to individual properties, however, in case of bulk holdings, one holding number will be provided to every house in a particular colony like Ashok Nagar, CCL, CMPDI among others.
 
 Kumar said, "There are around 2.5 lakh households in the city, of which 1.5 lakh are individual holdings. These include both residential and commercial buildings while the remaining are bulk holdings." "This assessment is being conducted after 23 years, perhaps why it has been really hectic for both the RMC officials as well as the public," he added.
 
 However, Kumar said, RMC will continue to accept forms even after Wednesday but with a penalty of Rs 2,000 for residential property and Rs 5,000 for commercial property. A notice will be issued to those who fail to submit the self-assessment form. "If the owner does not pay his or her tax, the penalty will be increased every year. The RMC has the power to freeze the bank account or auction the property too," Kumar said.
 
 While the revenue demand from property tax collection in 2015-16 fiscal was Rs 9 crore, an amount of Rs.12 crore was collected. This year's assessment will help set up the revenue demand for coming years, which is likely to be around Rs 30 to 35 crore. The collection of the same will be made from next year.
 
 Meanwhile, the RMC is planning to award ten property owners who have paid the highest revenue and also reward the top 10 wards from where maximum number of self-assessment forms have been submitted.
 
