MUMBAI: Around three years after a woman died, leaving her   flat and other properties without heirs, Bombay   told her maternal uncle and aunts who had staked a claim to it to pay Rs 5 lakh in costs for filing the case “dishonestly”. 

 Rajesh Singh and his sisters had claimed that Urmila Arora did not have paternal relatives and they were entitled to the  . But Urmila’s cousin sisters from her father’s side approached court. Under the   Succession Act (HSA), when an unmarried female dies without heirs, relatives from her father’s side have first claim. 
 
 “The petitioners approached court with dishonest averments to pollute the pure stream of justice,” said Justice Shriram. The court directed Singh and his sisters to pay Rs 2 lakh as legal costs to Urmila’s cousin sisters. They were also told to donate Rs 3 lakh to the Army Welfare Fund (battle casualties).
 
 “It is (Singh and his sisters’) case that they are sole legal heirs under the HSA. They have made a false statement in the petition. The deceased had no legal heirs from her paternal side,” said the judge, adding, “It is a positive statement. If the plaintiffs were not aware if the deceased had anyone from the paternal side, the plaintiffs would have stated so. They have not.”
 
 The judge referred to Supreme Court judgements that said irresponsible law suits and bogus litigation should be thrown out. “The SC and this court have often said that if a party comes with unclean hands, which in this case (Singh and his sisters) have, they should be dealt with very strongly and substantial costs should be imposed on the parties. The conduct of the petitioners intend to impede and prejudice the administration of justice,” the HC said
 
 Urmila had died on November 9, 2014, without heirs. Her mother and father had died before her. Urmila’s maternal uncle and aunts approached the HC, staking claim to her property, relying on sections 8 and 9 of the HSA. The sections spell out the sequence in which property left behind by a person who dies without a will. Towards the end, it says the deceased person’s father’s brother and sister would have first claim, and in their absence, his mother’s brother and sister. But the HC pointed out that this provision was applicable to a Hindu male. For a Hindu female, who dies without a will or immediate heirs, relatives on her father’s side have right over the property. Only if there are no relatives on her father’s side will the property go to her mother’s relatives. 
 
 
 
 
 
