MUMBAI: A woman's plan to ace a visa interview at the US consulate by posing as a married couple with a well travelled merchant navy seaman backfired when she failed to explain why her 'husband' had several US visa stamps in his passport, but she had none. Both have been arrested for cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy.

 Before the interview, which was on May 3, Gujarat resident Kiran   through an agent hired unemployed seaman   to help her fly to the US to meet her fiancé, who works there.   was to get Rs 1.5 lakh for his 'service'. Knowing that US visa interviews are notoriously difficult to crack, Parmar came up with the theory that if she could show she was married and her husband had travelled several times to the US, the consulate would recognise this 'indirect access to the US' and grant her a visa. “Parmar's problem was that her fiancé had taken the wrong channel into the US to secure employment there. As such, he could not help her with a formal invitation, as that would expose his quasi-legal status in that country. So, Parmar came up with her devious plan,“ said an officer from the   police station.
 
 Parmar arrived in Mumbai on May 2. An official from the US consulate, which is at BKC, said, “Consular staff got suspicious just as Parmar presented Jude (lives in Bandra; is Indian) as her husband. There was no match between the two.“ Another official said that nothing indicated that the two were a couple; also, though Jude showed his passport with several visa stamps, Parmar failed to explain why hers had none. The official said that if they were indeed a couple, how is it possible that never once did she accompany him during his many trips to the US? “Her lie was caught when several discrepancies were found.“ The consulate handed over the two to the BKC police station the same day. “Jude accepted Parmar's offer as due to ill health he has been unemployed for several months,“ said a police officer. The police are looking for the agent who helped Parmar get in touch with Jude.
 
 On March 7, the BKC police arrested another Gujarat woman, and her father-in-law, for submitting a fake marriage certificate to clear her US visa interview.
 
