CHENNAI: What started as a flurry of activity on   in support of jallikattu is likely to bring the city to a halt. The ‘Marina Spring’ has turned into a cascade with several trade unions and associations calling for a bandh on Friday.

 On Thursday evening, social media groups were abuzz with queries on whether educational institutions would be open as the government and administration of schools circulated different messages. While education secretary D Sabitha said the government has not announced a holiday for schools and colleges, private trusts and associations said all institutions under its ambit would remain closed. 
 
 "As several school vans and bus drivers have declared a strike it will be hard for our students to commute, so we decided to declare a holiday on Friday," said K Nandakumar, general secretary, Tamil Nadu nursery, primary, matriculation and CBSE (private) Schools Association.
 
 A few schools took independent decisions and declared a holiday. Universities decided to close down despite not receiving any instructions from the government. While Dr   declared a holiday, Sathyabama University said it would remain closed until Monday as many of its students were participating in the protests. Several arts and science colleges also asked their faculty members to return only after the weekend.
 
 The game of solidaire domino started with auto, minivan and cabs association announcing that they would not ply their trade on Friday. The CITU auto union was the first to declare the strike and, although, there are about 10 different auto unions functional in the city, a senior CITU union representative said that 100% compliance can be expected.
 
 The impact of the strike on cab aggregator services will be clear on Friday as the firm’s representatives said it was "entirely up to the drivers to decide" whether they would ply. There was not much confusion among the   unions as they decided that long distance buses connecting Chennai with the rest of Tamil Nadu would not ply for 24 hours.
 
 While transport services are likely to be sparse and expensive, government utilities will function. "There may be change in routes of buses through Kamarajar Salai but our entire fleet will ply," said a senior MTC official. 
 
 Rail services are likely to be delayed with DMK asking its supporters to stage blockades. "Tamil Nadu is being given step-motherly treatment by the Centre. We will block trains across the state on Friday," said DMK working president M K Stalin in a statement.
 
 Pharmacist associations said they would shut drug shops between 6am and 6pm. However, those attached to hospitals would function. The Koyambedu vegetable market is likely to wear a deserted look. "Around 1,700 shops will shut after 8am," said Koyambedu market association advisor V R Soundararajan. However, Tamil Nadu Milk Dealers Welfare Association has decided to keep shops open to ensure uninterrupted supply of milk.
 
 
