MUMBAI: Over 10 years after the BMC was asked to deposit around Rs 40 crores in a litigation over Atria Mall in Worli, the   on Thursday allowed the corporation to withdraw the money along with the accumulated interest. 

 A division bench of Justice Vidyasagar Kanade and Justice Pukhraj Bora permitted the BMC’s request after it was informed that the civic body had spent over Rs 54 crores on rehousing project affected persons.
 
 The 1.8 lakh square feet mall was thrown open in 2006, but not before social activist Medha Patkar filed a public interest litigation alleging violations in permission given for the structure. According to the PIL, the mall had come up over land that was reserved for providing houses to persons who had been dishoused for various public projects. 
 
 The mall was permitted on the condition that it would build a municipal school, construct three buildings for municipal staff and pay the BMC over Rs 80 crores. The BMC was paid around Rs 45 crores. The high court in July 2006, asked the BMC to deposit the remaining amount around Rs 39.39 crores that it had received from the builder. The court had said that the money would remain in its custody till the BMC comes up with a plan to build tenements for the dishoused. 
 
 Senior advocate A Y Sakhare and advocate Trupti Puranik, counsel for the BMC, informed the high court that the corporation had purchased a number of tenements for project affected persons. As per the BMC affidavit it had spent around Rs 54.78 crores to purchase tenements for persons affected by public projects and for slum dwellers who were evicted for the widening of Mithi river. “The sum of Rs 39.39 crores be released as the corporation had incurred expenses for purchasing tenements to be allotted to project affected persons,” said the application filed by BMC officer Anand Bhawar. 
 
 The 1.8 lakh square feet mall was thrown open in 2006, but not before social activist Medha Patkar filed a public interest litigation alleging violations in permission given for the structure. According to the PIL, the mall had come up over land that was reserved for providing houses to persons who had been dishoused for various public projects. The mall was permitted on the condition that it would build a municipal school, construct three buildings for municipal staff and pay the BMC over Rs 80 crores. 
 
