PITHORAGARH: After the only special residential school for children of   at Jauljabi closed in April this year for want of funds from the Union tribal welfare ministry, many children of the community have gone back home and are not going to any other school. This comes at a time when efforts are being made to bring members of the primitive community to the mainstream. This also highlights the failure of the government in providing education to every child under the right to education Act.
 
  Speaking to TOI, district magistrate C Ravisasnkar said that the administration had sent a proposal to the government regarding opening of the school. "The school management is facing problem in running the school as it did not receive any aid from the government in the past four years. In April, 44 students were studying in the school. We shifted 22 children of classes three to five to   at Gothi, Dharchula, which is run by the social welfare ministry of Uttarakhand government," the DM said.
  
  When asked what has happened to the rest of the students,  , a teacher of the special school, said, "Twenty-two students have gone back home and are not studying anywhere." Mehra said he has not received salary for several months.
  
  Van Rawats belong are a primitive tribe whose population numbers just about 500 and live in areas bordering Nepal in Dharchula district, Didihat block in Pithoragarh district and Champawat block of Champawat district. Members of the tribe are shy and do not maintain contact with the outside world and, therefore, a special residential school primary school was opened for the children of the community at Jauljabi by NGO Seemant Anusuchuit Jati and  , run by former MLA Hira Singh Bora, in 2001. The tribal welfare ministry of the central government used to give funds for running the school until Bora's death in 2013.
  
  Children from Kimkhola, Bhagtriva, Ganagoan and Jamtadi Van Rawat localities used to study in this special school, said Nandan Singh Mahra, a teacher of the school. There were nine teaching and non-teaching staff and 44 students at April 2017, Mahra added. "We are struggling to get aid from the Union ministry but nothing came in the past three years. In March this year, our NGO informed the authorities concerned that it would not be possible to run this school any further if funds were not released," said Bhagirathi Bora, who is now the president of the NGO. "The government's apathy has finally led to the closure of the special school," she added.
  
  
  "We want to run the school and have submitted a proposal to the district administration regarding this," said  , president of another NGO, Muskan.
