MUNGER: Chief minister   on Wednesday said the   area in the district would be developed as a major tourist spot in the state. It would not only create employment opportunities for thousands of Adivasis residing in the area but also improve their living standard and bring them into the mainstream of the society, he said.

 “I am so much impressed by the natural beauty around the hot spring surrounded by the dense forest and hills that I have decided to develop the Bhimbandh into a major tourist centre,” the CM said while addressing a ‘Chetna Sabha’ on the Polo ground here on Wednesday. 
 
 Talking about the implementation of ‘Saat Nischay’ programme of the state government, Nitish said, “I am happy that the Bihar Public Grievance Redressal Act is working and people are benefiting from it. I wanted to see how the grievance redressal centre is working and people are satisfied or not.” 
 
 He narrated how one Gulabi Devi, who had lost her father as well as her husband, was running from pillar to post to get the money transferred from her deceased husband’s account into her own bank account. The account was with the   and the bank was not helping her out. She filed her complaint at the district redressal centre and the presiding officer, after hearing the complaint, ordered the bank to transfer the money. “I am happy that it was instantly done,” CM said.
 
 He also narrated the story of one Ruby Devi, who was served a bill of Rs74,000 by the   against power consumption. She filed a complaint before the district redressal centre a fortnight ago. “Today was the final hearing and a fresh bill for Rs7,314 has been issued on the order of the centre’s presiding officer  ,” CM said.
 
 On prohibition, Nitish claimed the crime graph had gone down by 30% in the state. 
 
 The CM assailed the opposition for spreading false rumours that liquor ban had caused Rs5,000 crore loss per annum. But their mouths are shut when they see how more than Rs10, 000 crore has been saved by the people who were liquor addicts and how their lives changed. “The sale of clothes, milk and milk products and sewing machines has gone up thrice since prohibition,” he said.
 
