NAVI MUMBAI:   MD Bhushan Gagrani made it clear that Cidco will continue to look after the solid   plant at Ghot-Chal village, Taloja to scientifically dispose the trash generated from   nodes till the work at the plant is completed. But the task of collection of garbage will be transferred to PCMC from October 1, he added. He was speaking at a public forum at Cidco auditorium on Friday.

 “It’s been a year since the PCMC was formed. The health wing is the first to be transferred to PCMC, which will followed by transfer of other departments. As villagers did not allow us to complete the whole waste management project, we will finish the job. Till then, we will continue to handle the waste disposal at the plant for which PCMC should not be burdened,” said Gagrani.
 
 PCMC chief   said that the matter will be sorted out after consulting Cidco before October 1. He promised that the residents will not be inconvenienced.
 
  “We will take up the matter in our next general body meeting to decide whether to take over the garbage collection service from Cidco from October 1. However, we will not let residents to suffer anymore. As the corporation is still not in a position to take over the services, Cidco will be asked to extend their deadline to continue the garbage collection for a few more months.”
 
 BJP corporator Paresh Thakur, who is the leader of the PCMC house said, “Taking over the garbage collection job seems to be an impossible task at this juncture. We have to find the new contractors to collect around 350 tonnes of trash on daily basis.”
 
  Thakur added that a joint assessment survey of all services by PCMC committee and Cidco officials is required to enable PCMC address the issue.
 
 This year alone, collection of garbage suffered on four occasions for various reasons such as workers’ stir for pay hike, agitation by villagers citing pollution and compensation, termination of previous contractor and Cidco refusing to lift trash and asking PCMC to take over. 
 
  Cidco has issued a deadline to PCMC to take over the health department including solid waste collection from October 1. On the other hand, Cidco has been served a legal notice by MPCB to comply with pollution norms at the Taloja dumping ground based on the complaints lodged by villagers. 
 
 “Soon, segregation of garbage at source will be enforced in the nodes to minimise the quantity of trash being transported to dumping ground,” said Shinde. Tendering process for appointing new contractors will also take some time, said PCMC chief,adding that plans are being charted out to resolve the garbage management issue.
 
 
