NEW DELHI: The   has set May 11-19 as the timeline to conclude hearings on the legality of  , signalling its resolve to shortly decide an issue with potentially severe socio-political implications. The court said it would hold daily sittings between May 11 and May 19 to decide pleas by Muslim women to declare the practice of oral talaq illegal.

 The timeline comes amid hardening resistance from Muslim clergy, represented by the   and others, who have argued that triple talaq has the sanction of the Quran, forms part of Muslim personal law and, therefore, falls squarely outside the purview of the judiciary. The Centre has argued that the issue concerns gender justice rather than religious rights of the minority community, setting the stage for a legal battle which can have serious repercussions.
 
 The Supreme Court’s decision to expeditiously dispose off the sensitive matter comes just after BJP’s landslide win in UP polls. Party strategists claim BJP’s support for the campaign to scrap oral triple talaq — a practice which has been outlawed in many Islamic countries — contributed to its spectacular victory margin.
 
 The government’s stand contrasts sharply with the reluctance of previous regimes to venture into what Muslim groups have claimed as an autonomous area of the community.
 
 Although the government insists that its stand is motivated by concern for Muslim women who can be divorced at the whims and fancy of men, the stand is being seen through the lens of BJP’s tense equations with the minority community.
 
 By deciding to take up petitions challenging the validity of triple talaq, the SC has opened the doors wide for an extensive debate during this summer vacation before a five-judge constitution bench. However, the SC had clarified that it was not going into any larger issue like uniform civil code.
 
 “We will not debate uniform civil code. This case pertains to determination of the legality of triple talaq. We will focus only on that issue and determine whether it is linked to constitutional rights,” it had said. An important factor that will weigh in during the arguments is the large number of petitions filed by Muslim women who have been divorced by men through triple talaq.
 
 
