NAGPUR: The   plans to start an open classroom for bird watching and education in 758 hectare   and catchment area this month.

 A unique concept, perhaps second to be implemented in the region, is a larger plan to save the forest from biotic and development pressures, and moreover to protect rich bird habitat there. Presently, a bird watching nature trail exists in  .
 
 Hingna range forest officer (RFO) CH Patil did not share much details as modalities are still being worked out but confirmed that forest will be opened for school and college students and amateur birders to hone their skills in bird watching.
 
 The department is gearing up to start open classroom with display boards of bird species being installed across nature trails that already existed there.
 
 According to district honorary wildlife warden Kundan Hate, there are 263 recorded bird species in the area. “Of this, information about 170 species will be displayed through signages to educate students. A handbook (pocket manual) is also planned, which will disclose all details about these birds,” said Hate.
 
 The bird class will be different and the field trips to be undertaken with the help of experts will concentrate on field identification, lifestyles, and ecology of bird species. There are two towers for fire watchers, that can be used for sightseeing.
 
 “Entry will be free and it will be a unique experience because actual bird watching will consists of tutoring. Plans are also afoot to provide binoculars to students, which will be returned at gates after the trip,” Hate said.
 
 The facility will be thrown open from two gates — one from Hingna MIDC side and another from gate near Vasudeo Nagar on Hingna road. The department also plans to train guides who will accompany students during bird watching.
 
 President of environment protection NGO Srushti Paryavaran Mandal Sanjay Deshpande hailed the move. “It is a good idea to protect the area without damaging the environment. The idea is to give first lessons in bird watching to students,” he said.
 
 Conservationists are opposed to proposed large-scale development of Ambazari forest by bringing biodiversity park at the cost of Rs14 crore.
 
 They said, as per   order of December 12, 1996, all proposals for diversions of such forest areas for any non-forest purposes, irrespective of ownership, would require prior approval of Central government. However, no clearance under Forest (Conservation) Act 1980 has been sought for the proposed project.
 
 
