RANCHI: Severe anomaly associated with the north-western disturbances and lack of local development in the   system, in and around the state has resulted in persistent   like condition in the state. Weather experts believe that the north-western disturbances were highly active till February-end but remained subdued during its scheduled activity period in mid-march.

 All five weather stations in the state—Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Daltongunj, Chailbasa and Bokaro recorded a minimum temperature which was 3-4°C above normal in the past one week. While the deviation from normal was a maximum of 5°C in Daltonganj on Saturday, it remained 3°C above normal at the rest of the weather stations.
 
 Maximum temperature in the state capital on Saturday was 38.8°C, which was 4°C above normal, whereas Daltonganj recorded 42.2°C which was also 4°C above normal. The maximum temperatures in the week came down below normal in Bokaro, whereas it came close to normal in Jamshedpur, Daltonganj and Chailbasa after these places received sporadic rainfall on April 6.
 
 Weather physicist and agromet advisory at Birsa Agriculture University, Dr A Wadood said heating up of the atmosphere during this period is a normal phenomenon but associated cooling occurs due to local weather development. 
 
 “Places which have a good forest cover or surface water have experienced proper evaporation and associated cloud formation resulting in rain but unless the northern disturbances reach the state we cannot expect the usual nor’wester   to occur,” he said.
 
 Nor’westers—also known as Kalbaisakhi, which is rainfall associated with high-speed wind and cooling effect mostly occurring in March and April is common in West Bengal and parts of Jharkhand and Bangladesh. 
 
 Wadood said, “Nor’Wester is local weather development at large scale which is triggered by cloud formation and pressure difference, known to bring down the temperature of the region considerably and the phenomenon is absent till date.”
 
 IMD in its meteorological analysis released on Saturday evening, said the upper-air cyclonic circulation persisted over Jharkhand and Chhatisgarh, extending upto 0.9kms above sea level. While thunderstorm associated with squall was predicted for Saturday at isolated parts in the state, the local observatory said rainfall is likely to reach Ranchi in the next 48 hours which will bring temporary relief from the heat conditions.
 
