MUMBAI: In a relief for Dr  , the   on Thursday stayed proceedings where trial was to commence in a fouryear-old rape case against him. Justice A M Badar admitted a petition filed by the 50-year-old doctor to quash the case.The judge observed he had made out an arguable case on facts to question the FIR lodged by a patient with Khar police in May 2013.

 Dr Soonawala's counsel   cited the   to argue his case that the doctor was “framed''. A study by the Academy states that DNA can be found not only within three-four days after coitus but also within seven days post-coitus using enhanced methods of detection. Justice Badar referred and relied on the American study and also on an expert medical paper cited by Ponda which shows that “in the absence of the discharge of semen, male epithelial cells can be found in vaginal swabs.“ Justice Badar observed in this case, neither sperm cells nor male epithelial cells were found.
 
 After a sessions court initially rejected his plea, the HC granted Dr Soonawala pre-arrest bail in May 2013, a relief which even the   upheld as a rare order in a rape case. The woman patient had alleged that the doctor raped her in his Khar clinic while her husband and a female attendant waited outside the examination room. Police said her vaginal swab was taken and medical examination done.
 
 The doctor moved the HC last April to quash the FIR. His counsel Ponda even if the doctor had touched her at least epithelial cells would have be en found. He stressed the doctor was framed as he was fighting the “hawker menace“ for a decade. He said the doctor offered to give his samples for testing soon after the FIR but police initially refused to take them. Ponda said forensic reports later showed there was “no male DNA “ found on her person. He said the victim kept changing her account of what happened.
 
 Advocate Vijay Hiremath appearing for the complainant, opposed the doctor's plea. He said the court can't disbelieve the FIR at this stage.The prosecutor too said the doctor's plea be dismissed. But the HC said though a “roving inquiry'' cannot be made at this stage nor can the evidence be appreciated to find out if case is true or false, Ponda had made out an arguable case to admit the petition to find out whether the case amounts to an abuse of process of court.
 
 The HC will hear his quashing plea after the vacation.
 
