NEW DELHI: Returning to the   parade after three years, the Delhi   will showcase the educational initiatives undertaken by the AAP government to transform government schools into model institutions.

 “We are showcasing the model government schools of Delhi which are providing facilities at par with private schools. Through improved infrastructure, vocational programmes in fine arts, crafts, theatre, music and dance, and initiatives like mega parent-teacher meetings, these schools are demonstrating a marked improvement that is accessible to all,” said Bibhuti Adhikari, the designer and fabricator of the float model. 
 
 The 15.5-foot-high front section, mounted on a tractor base, is a four-storey, peach-coloured upgraded school building with larger-than-life statues of students engaged in academics, sports and other capacity-building activities. The rear section will display parent-teacher meetings, modern science laboratories and classrooms. 
 
 The float also includes two heritage structures,   and Ludlow Castle. “Audience will see Ludlow Castle in the front base of the float. Being the first school to be converted into a model school in 1957, it symbolises the initiation of journey of upgrading all schools to a model level,” said Vineeta Adhikari, a co-creator. “At the rear end proudly sits Jantar mantar, which represents advancement in Indian science and is now a prominent centre for educational tours,” she added. 
 
 The float is full of icons meant to represent the educational process besides the basic school curriculum—through music, painting, theatre, dance forms, excursions and reading exercises.
 
 The structure, made of fibre, cardboard and metal accessories, has been built over a month. “We had also proposed a theme based on Mohalla Clinics but it was shot down,” said Adhikari. 
 
 On top of the float, a group of students donning lab coats will engage in various activities. None of the students is, however, from any Delhi government school.  , a Class X student from St Xavier’s, Rajender Marg, said, “We are excited as we are taking part in the Republic Day parade.” 
 
 During the parade, a song—Ye mera school hai, mujhko ye sikhlata. Sahi galat main fark seekhne layak banata—sung by students of DPS Gurgaon will be played when the tableau will cross the visitor’s gallery.
 
 
