

 
 
 
 The tally certainly exceeded my expectations of 62-66 seats. It showed that people in Punjab were desperate for a decisive mandate. My candidature from Lambi changed the game in Malwa as people appreciated my challenge to the sitting chief minister even if it meant a loss. But the credit for the win goes to Congress right from our president Sonia Gandhi to booth worker. The win is personally satisfying for me as we hit nearly two-thirds majority after 1992 when we won 87 seats.
 
 
 
 These are IITians and corporate businessmen. 
  (laughs). I speak my heart out. My outspokenness and forthrightness won hearts.
 
 
 
 The surge was only in social media. Their biggest mistake was to club me and Badals together and pronounce jail terms for Akalis. Punjab wants development first. Ridding Punjab of bankruptcy is our first priority. AAP misread Punjab minds and relegated the local leader ship or removed them, such as Sucha Singh Chottepur, to background with dominance by Delhi leaders. Punjabis showed thumbs down to that sort of behaviour. Shouldn't Punjab have their own men campaign here? Even AAP's Malwa hopes were misplaced. We have proved psephologists wrong by winning 40 seats there.
 
 
 
 As far regional representation is concerned, that should be enhanced.
 
 
 
 
 Indeed, education always makes a difference. We are going to see that in our policy making, policing and administration.
 
 
 
 Our immediate attention would be on health and education. The major hospitals of the state are in dire need of revamp. The education system also needs to be revived. During our first cabinet meeting we are going to take up issues related to good governance and police reforms.
 
 It was because of me that many areas of the state had deliberately been ignored by the SAD-BJP government. It is time to compensate for what all loss of development over these years in these areas. I had left Patiala Development Authority with Rs 400 crore. I don't know where did Akalis take this money?
 
 
 
 
 Secular credentials. Our genuine prom ises on waiving off debt, job for 33 lakh households and 50 lakh smartphones to youth. More importantly , the promise by a regional leader like me. See in old days, there were only two parties nationally , that is Congress and BJP . It was a different system. Now there are regional leaders.
 
 Time has come to pick up regional leaders in these national parties and build political campaign around them who can challenge regional parties. Like I was developed by Congress into a regional challenge to the Badals despite ours being a pan India party . The AAP did not have a groundswell of regional network.
 
 
 
 
 I am against this `Chitta' that has got in the veins of the state youth. I am certain that we will root out this problem in four weeks. A Special Task Force is being constituted and action would be taken against any A, B or C found involved in promoting drugs.
 
 
 
 
 Let me say at the outset, there would be no space for vendetta politics in Punjab.I want to fight drug menace by promot ing sports and bringing in more jobs to keep the youth away from drugs.
 
 
 
 
 I cannot say what role he has got in the Congress. It is for our vice-president Rahul Gandhi to decide on the matter. As far as selection of the state cabinet is concerned that decision will also be taken by Rahul Gandhi. As far as I know we are going to have senior leaders in the state cabinet who have won assembly elections at least thrice.
 
 
 
 
 I don't believe in false promises. What I said I will deliver. We are already working to float global tenders to buy mobile phones that were promised to the youth.There is no problem with that. We are on the job to provide `one job per family'. The idea is to attract big industries to the state by easing out the red tapism.
 
 During Nirvan's (his grandson who recently married granddaughter of senior Congress leader Karan Singh) wedding I had met some of the top industrialists of the country. They had shown interest in setting up units in Punjab. We will start attracting industry with better policies. Punjabis are hardworking community and once they have opportunities to work, they will do wonders. We will get them these opportunities.
 
 
 
 
 Well, Narendra Modi has done a good job. But there isn't anything permanent in politics. Rajiv Gandhi got 400-odd seats. Even Indira Gandhi got huge number of seats, then suddenly you collapse.Media has become very powerful. It doesn't take long to change people's minds.
 
