MELGHAT: The   (MTR) has launched a unique initiative called ‘silage’ to supply fodder to herbivores during the dry season when feed is not available.

 “On a pilot basis, the plan is being implemented in Melghat Wildlife Sanctuary at Pipalpadav and Raipur areas,” said Dinesh Kumar Tyagi, chief conservator of forests (CCF) & field director, MTR. The idea was replicated after success at Chiklam and Chhadupati areas.
 
 Silage is basically fermented green forage fodder stored in a silo. Such facilities are generally created for domestic cattle but this is perhaps first project in the region in a protected area (PA).
 
 At Pipalpadav a 6 metre long and 2 metre wide earthen silo has been created in which at least six palatable grass species from the sanctuary have been collected and put in it.
 
 The eight-feet-deep airtight silo has 15 layers in which 5 tonne palatable grass species have been stored. Grass in each layer has been mixed with 1kg jaggery, 1kg salt and 15 litre water.
 
 “This is done to increase saltability and preservation. It is just like pickle which is ready for consumption in three months,” explains range forest officer (RFO) Sudhir Sonawle.
 
 The venture is very cost-effective with Rs 42,000 spent on it and it is a one-time investment. “A similar silo with small capacity has also been prepared at Raipur,” Sonawle added.
 
 Wildlife expert &   president Kishor Rithe, who works in Melghat for wildlife conservation, says silage is part of the wildlife management practices just like “how we construct artificial water holes for wild animals in a sanctuary when perennial sources go dry”.
 
 “Such ventures are implemented by those into dairy farming but in Melghat sanctuary we are implementing on a pilot basis,” says Dr  , deputy conservator of forest (DyCF), Sipna Division.
 
 Dr Sharma, who is also a veterinarian, adds as it is one has to cut grass for firelines and in the process tonnes of grass is wasted. “We collected this grass and converted into silage. Our study has found that animals are adapting to the new fodder, which has minerals. In summer this grass is distributed near water holes,” said Dr Sharma.
 
 Dr Sharma stressed the need for implementing such projects in rural parts of Melghat and also in the buffer. This will reduce biotic pressure of villages in the forest areas.
 
