RAJKOT: Bowling the first super over of his life while defending just 11 runs for the   against the Gujarat Lions in a humdinger between the two teams at the SCA Stadium on Saturday night,   couldn't have hoped for a worse start.

 It was the perfect yorker-the 'go to' ball for this seamer who just doesn't bend his arm while delivering the ball during his unique action, which beat  , but it turned out to be a no ball. The 23-year-old compensated for his mistake with another perfect yorker which went for a leg bye, but erred again by bowling a wide outside off stump to  .
 
 Not many would bet against batsmen like Finch and McCullum not being able to get the remaining eight runs off five balls, but all the youngster gave away was: 0,1,0,1,1. Bumrah had done the impossible, clinching a thrilling win for MI from the jaws of defeat.
 
 Currently perhaps the best death overs bowler in the world, Bumrah confessed that he fine-tunes his yorkers during "specific death bowling sessions."
 
 "I don't practice like how Malinga does it by keeping a shoe (which the Lankan ace then tries to hit with his toe-crushers'). I practice with him on how to bowl the yorker consistently, but I always have a death bowling session whenever I practice as it's important, because this is the time I bowl for Gujarat in domestic matches, for India and for MI. So constantly whenever I practice, I've a proper death bowling session," he explained.
 
 "Bumrah bowled a very good over. With that reverse swing and accuracy, you can't do much," complimented Gujarat skipper  . "If any batsman was there, it would've been tough for him to hit a six or a boundary off his yorker. If you would've noticed, his slower ball was also a yorker. It was a perfect over for MI. He bowled really, very well," praised Lions 'keeper-bat Ishan Kishan, who had sizzled in the game earlier with a35-ball 48, before Bumrah derailed the innings with the wickets of Raina and later  .
 
 His mere selection for the most important six balls of the match has told us one thing clearly: It's Bumrah who's the strike bowler for MI now, and not  , who's done the job admirably for the past nine seasons. On his part, the young gun justified the faith of his captain  , presenting him a perfect 30th birthday gift on Saturday. 
 
 Thinking positive, Bumrah felt, was the key for him during the high-pressure situation. "This was the first time I was bowling a super over. There's always pressure because only they needed only 11 runs. However, at that time, I tried to keep a calm head, not focus on the negative things, but positives aspects, thinking about the plans I made," the young pacer, who ironically plays for Gujarat in the Ranji Trophy, said.
 
 It helped that he received little, but the right sort of instructions from coach  , Rohit, and bowling coach, former New Zealand pacer Shane Bond. "They just told me 'back your skills. Be confident. This is just another over. Don't take extra pressure on yourself. You know this is a super over and you have to deliver. Be confident, be calm and try to execute your plans,'" he revealed.
 
 Going into the Champions Trophy, Bumrah's superb form augurs well for the Indian team, which would hope that he delivers similarly telling performances which would make the difference in tight contests.
 
