GURUGRAM: One in every four UberMOTO trip originates or ends at a Metro station in Gurgaon, highlighting the need for   in a city starved of public transport.

 But the wait for a solution to that, promised by way of a brand new   service to be rolled out by the  , is likely to stretch into the first quarter of 2018. “While we are hoping that the bus service can be rolled out by   this year, it is possible that it would be done in the first quarter of  ,” municipal commissioner V Umashankar said at The Gurugram Story, an event organized on Saturday to discuss urban challenges faced by the city and its possible solutions.
 
 The insight into the nature of its bike taxi trips was also provided by Uber at the same event, which was organised by MCG, WRI India, NGO Gurgaon First and other organisations. Earlier this month, the Haryana government approved the memorandum of association (MoA) that will facilitate the forming of a special purpose vehicle (SPV) for the city bus service, which has been hanging fire for over a decade now. The next step is to approve the article of association (AoA) after which the SPV – Gurugram Metropolitan City Bus Ltd— can be formed.
 
 The principal secretary of the urban local bodies department, Anand Mohan Sharan, told TOI efforts are to start the bus service this year. “We are trying to ensure the first bus rolls out latest by December. While the plan is to have 500 buses in all, we will perhaps roll out around 200 of them initially,” he said.
 
 The city’s car habit — partly imbibed from Delhi and partly born out of necessity because of the absence of public transport — and its choking effect on roads was also discussed, with the MCG chief mentioning there were just 350 police personnel to manage the lakhs of cars that are driven on its roads every day (in comparison, Delhi traffic police has 6,000 cops). On the brighter side, Umashankar added, “The state government has announced it will post about a 1,000 more traffic personnel to address the traffic problem in the city.”
 
 The other area of focus at the event was waste management, a major problem in Gurgaon which has not been able to roll out a garbage disposal and recycling mechanism since the Bandhwari waste treatment plant became defunct after a fire in 2013. 
 
 “We are in the process of setting up a waste to energy plant and the formal work order will be signed in about a month’s time,” said Umashankar. “We are also constructing a construction and demolition waste recycling plant. But we are facing certain hurdles that we hope to overcome in the coming days.” Both plants are facing opposition from environmentalists, the former because they argue a waste to energy plant will increase air pollution and decentralised waste management is a better idea, and the latter because of fears that it will damage the Basai wetlands. 
 
 Union minister and Gurgaon MP Rao Inderjit Singh, who was also present at the event, said he would speak to the chief minister for the rainwater harvesting system to be made more efficient in Gurgaon so that the fast-depleting groundwater levels can be addressed. “The city at present has a good set of officers and hopefully we will be able to plug the infrastructural gaps,” he said. 
 
 Several startups from NCR showcased possible solutions at the event, ranging from waterless body wash and shampoo to hybrid vehicles.
 
 Deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh was in attendance too and said the administration would proactively work with residents’ groups. “I will energise the civil society and seek their help in improving the city. We will provide the right platform so that you can contribute to the growth of this city,” he told the audience.
 
 
