BENGALURU: A cash-strapped Bangalore Development Authority ( ) which was struggling to sell over 1,500 flats that found no takers since bookings opened in 2014, finally has reasons to cheer. Five of its housing projects up for sale in and around Bengaluru have now received decent response. 

 “We have received over 1,000 applications within a week for 1,500 1, 2 and 3-BHK flats which were lying vacant at our various housing projects. We are hoping to get another 1,000 applications,” said P N Nayak, engineer member, BDA.
 
 It’s for the first time that   have received such a response. But what has led to the turnaround this time, according to officials, is the added modern amenities the authority has been promising home buyers. “Most of our apartment projects which are developed on 2-3 acre land parcels have been added with club houses, guest houses, recreational facilities such as table tennis and badminton courts, children’s play area, jogging tracks, department stores and ATMs to re-attract buyers. We have managed to offer these facilities within the available space at each site,” said a senior BDA officer, who is overseeing the sale of flats.
 
 Though the flats had remained unsold for various reasons, including demonetization, the BDA is not offering any discount as they are priced at 2014 rates. “Two-bedroom options by Grade A private developers are primarily in the range of Rs 50-75 lakh, while three-bedroom apartments are priced between Rs 75 lakh and Rs 3 crore. But we are offering the same in the range of Rs 25-35 lakh for two-bedroom flats, and Rs 35-50 lakh for three-bedroom ones,’’ he added.
 
 “When we got a poor response to our flats, which are far cheaper than those offered by private builders, we realized that people didn’t prefer our apartments because they had little or no amenities. We took about a year to include these amenities before putting them up for sale again,” said another BDA official.
 
 However, some still think the prices aren’t very affordable. “The BDA has failed to provide affordable housing through most of its projects. Even the quality of construction has come down over the years, after the authority opted to improve its designs,” said B M Shiva Kumar, an   activist.
 
 In the last decade, the BDA built around 5,000 homes to provide residential space for the economically weaker section (EWS) and lower income group ( ), besides middle-income and high-income groups (MIG, HIG).
 
 
 
 
 The BDA has become bankrupt over the years, with poor planning resulting in pending projects and few takers for the flats. Having learnt from mistakes, we proposed several changes after conducting a thorough study in construction of flats/houses and provided better amenities to attract buyers. There has been a sea-change in the perception of buyers towards flats/houses. If we can cater to the present needs at affordable cost, we are confident of attracting buyers and making BDA projects a huge success
 
 Senior BDA official
 
 
