NEW DELHI: After the   Home Complex in Rohini, Delhi Commission for Women found serious lapses in the Delhi government-run   in Hari Nagar on Wednesday. The   inspection revealed filthy toilets, lack of sweepers and the mentally challenged women inmates being lined up naked as they awaited their turn for a bath.

 Concerned that the social welfare department seemed to be doing little even after the embarrassment of Asha Kiran, DCW sent a notice to Dilraj Kaur, secretary, social welfare, to respond with a report on Asha Jyoti by February 15.
 
 The inspection team lead by DCW chief Swati Maliwal observed that at Asha Jyoti, home to 59 mentally challenged women and girls, the residents were lined up naked while waiting for their turn to bathe and then walked naked to their rooms afterward. “This is a severe blow to the dignity of the residents and a serious human rights violation,” noted DCW’s notice. The inspection team, which visited the home on Wednesday at 4.45am, also found that the inmates were made to do all the cooking due to shortage of staff.
 
 Kaur, already in the line of the government's fire for the reported deaths and wretched conditions in Asha Kiran, was asked to submit an action-taken report within a week. 
 
 The DCW team said that there was a tangible shortage of potable water at Asha Jyoti, and hot water was not available for bathing despite it being the winter season. Also, apart from yoga classes, other recreational activities were never organised for the centre’s residents.
 
 In an earlier visit to the Beggar Home in the same complex, DCW saw the mentally challenged residents being made to cook food for inmates of both Asha Jyoti and the Beggar Home because there was only one cook and one helper to prepare meals for over 80 residents. “The commission had then issued a notice to which it received a reply from the department of social welfare defending the practice.
 
 It has been stated in the reply that the mentally ill may sometimes be participating in the daily activities of the home and assisting in cooking, but this is more out of their sense of involvement rather than out of compulsion,” DCW said. 
 
 Saying it was deeply perturbed at the department’s reply, the commission said the argument that the mentally challenged sometimes participated in cooking for therapeutic purposes was specious and untenable because it misrepresented the fact of there being only a single cook and that it was not possible for one person to daily prepare three meals for 80 residents unassisted.
 
 DCW also found that the inmates continued to assist in the kitchen work despite the earlier notice.
 
 
