LUCKNOW: It is voting day on February 19 and thousands of people will be busy, not standing in queues to cast their vote but with the 500-odd weddings planned for the day at various venues of the city.

 Of the number, over 300 weddings will be held during the day and the rest in the evening. According to lawn and marriage hall owners, over 2,50,000 people would gather at these venues in the afternoon. For the evening events, more than 2,20,000 people would assemble at different places.
 
 Like Faisal Khan, a tent house owner in old Lucknow points out, “Apart from the families, labourers and supervisors would also be busy with the weddings.” Many families with a February 19 wedding lined up said they had fixed the date way before the election date came out. They said the wedding was more important for them than anything else. Also, many of them pointed out, they hardly had the time to spare for standing in a queue just to cast their vote. 
 
 “No one can stop marriages and ceremonies and labourers and tent owners will be allowed to complete their assignments from their godowns and warehouses,” said additional district magistrate Jai Shankar Dubey.
 
 Ankleshwar Gupta, who is busy shopping these days, said, “I wanted to be among the first few to cast his vote. But my daughter’s wedding date was fixed as February 19 and what in the world can be more important than that?” 
 
 “My sister’s wedding was fixed two months before the election date came out. Right now I am so busy somehow completing all the pending work. We are running out of time but I will still try to cast my vote,” said Azeem Ahmad.
 
 “It is going to be my Walima on polling day. While the event is in the evening, I will be busy welcoming my inlaws and guests and the entire morning would be spent in overseeing the decorations and other arrangements,”said Syed Muzzafar Husain.
 
 Shaaz Haider, who will tied the knot on February 19, said, “It will be the busiest day of my life. There’s so much running around to do, if you catch me standing still it would only be at my Walima.”
 
 “On February 10, 2012, I met my fiance. Now we are getting married on February 19. So I could say elections have been good for my personal life but I will be busy decking up on that day. I will be wearing mehndi on my palms so if the booth officers allow another person to accompany me to use the EVM on my behalf, I will come to cast my vote,” said Arushi Chakraborty, a resident of Aliganj.
 
