NEW DELHI: A team of five IIT-Madras students has developed a mechanical device that can lead to safer use of public toilets. The device lifts, sanitises and wipes a toilet seat, and is hands-free.

 Currently, the public toilet experience in India can be summed up, by and large, as horrible. They are hothouses for germs. Over 30% of Indian women in the age group of 25 years to 50 years suffer from urinary tract infection (UTI) at some point of time.
 
 These students have developed a prototype that comprises a simple foot pedal at the base of the commode that lifts, sanitises and wipes the seat. They estimate the product can be marketed at Rs 750 a piece if mass-manufactured. However, the development cost of it is Rs 5,000.
 
 The estimated 150 million urinary tract infections per annum worldwide cost the global economy in excess of $6 billion, according to C M Gonzalez and A J Schaeffer’s study — ‘Treatment of Urinary Tract Infection: What’s Old, What’s New, and What Works’ — in the World Journal of Urology 6 (1999).
 
 According to more recent research published in the International Journal of Cell Science and Biotechnology, urinary tract infections (UTIs) are the “second-most common infection.
 
 “About 40% to 50% (of women) will suffer at least one clinical episode during their lifetime,” it said. “A lot of people contract UTI due to use of unhygienic public toilets. We met a person from a corporate environment suffering from UTI as he uses public toilets a lot. So our team of Sahay, a group we formed to develop socially relevant technologies, decided to work on a solution at the Centre for Innovation at  ,” said Arvind Pujari, a team member.
 
 The students took five months to develop the device, which can be fitted to the existing toilet structure as an add-on.
 
 The mechanism lifts, sprays and wipes. “And one doesn’t have to use the hands,” said Pujari.
 
 The product was among the 40 innovations given the Gandhian Young Technological Innovation Award earlier this month by the President of India.
 
