ISLAMABAD: A custodian of a shrine killed at least 20 people, including five of a family, and injured four others in a remote village of Sargodha district of Punjab in   on Sunday morning.

 Liaquat Ali Chatta, deputy commissioner of Sargodha, said the custodian, Abdul Waheed, a resident of Lahore and a government employee, killed the devotees at the shrine of Ali Ahmed Gujjar using machetes and clubs. He said the killer was believed to be mentally unstable. Locals, however, denied the claim.
 
 An injured woman who arrived at the District Hospital Sargodha reported the killings, Chatta said. She was one of the four survivors who managed to flee from the crime scene. “Acting on her information, a heavy contingent of police rushed to the shrine and arrested Waheed and his two associates and shifted them to an undisclosed location,” he said. The accused has admitted to have committed the crime, police said.
 
 According to the survivors, the custodian called the devotees via telephone to his room one by one and offered an intoxicating substance to them before removing their clothes and used a dagger and sticks to kill his victims. Citing a doctor at Sargodha hospital, the Geo TV said that the victims were murdered nude and the bodies bore multiple stab wounds and blunt weapons marks.
 
 Locals said Waheed usually visited the shrine twice a month and used to torture devotees by setting them on fire, which he called a healing process. “We heard people screaming whenever he (Waheed) was at the shrine,” said the residents. Among the dead, 11 were from Sargodha, two from  , two from Layyah and one each from Mianwali and Pir Mahal. A dead body of one woman could not be identified.
 
 Police official Mazhar Shah said that the motive behind the crime has not been ascertained. The shrine was built about two years ago on the grave of local religious leader Ali Mohamamd Gujjar.
 
 People would come to the dargah for “cleansing” their sins and allow the caretakers to beat them with clubs. Chatta quoted Waheed as saying that he killed his disciples because, according to him, they poisoned his spiritual leader, Ali Muhammad, to death two years ago.
 
 Waheed told the police that had he not killed them, they would have poisoned him too, Geo TV reported.
 
 The shrine was cordoned off for a search operation. Punjab CM Shehbaz Sharif has summoned a report on the incident from IG Police within 24 hours. He also announced an amount of Rs 500,000 for families of each of the deceased person, while Rs 200,000 for each injured person.
 
 
 
