BENGALURU: When the new deputy inspector general of police (prisons), HS Revanna, visited Central Jail (Parappana Agrahara) — in the midst of a controversy over alleged irregularities — two inmates approached him with pleas. While one wanted his book on prison reforms to be published, the other sought permission to build a generator that can run without fuel in prisons across Karnataka.

 Revanna visited the jail for the first time, after taking over as DIG (prisons) last week. He arrived on the premises around 11.30am, prison officials told TOI.
 
 “It was a surprise visit. The news of the new DIG’s arrival reached us 10 minutes before he arrived. Like his boss, additional director general of police (prisons) NS Megharikh who visited the jail last week, Revanna too walked straight into convicts’ barracks and spent around four hours with the inmates,” prison officials said.
 
 Lifer G Yallappa, convicted in a murder case, told the officer that his book about prisoners and role of officials in reforming them was yet to release. “I had completed the book in October 2016 and it was sent to the legal cell for opinion. Please make sure it is published soon,” he requested.
 
 Devesh Kumar Singh, an engineering student who is serving an eight-year term for his role in a bank robbery, said he had readied the blueprint of a generator that will run without fuel and supply power to all the eight central prisons in Karnataka.
 
 “I had written to the Karnataka High Court chief justice as well as then home minister   seeking their help in getting me permission to realize my dream. I request you to permit me to go ahead with the project,” Singh, 25, said.
 
 After interacting with the inmates, Revanna inspected the jail hospital and visited the rooms of stamp paper scamster Abdul Karim Telgi and AIADMK leader VK  , sources said.
 
 “He then held a long meeting with prison officials, particularly those deployed at the gates, the admission room and the hospital,” sources added. The officer left the prison around 5.30pm.
 
