MUMBAI: Four months after   and cash of a collective value of Rs 50 lakh were stolen from a lawyer's house in south Mumbai, two men who worked at the lawyer's office were arrested for the theft on Saturday. The police said that a rift over sharing the booty made one of the alleged thieves blow the whistle on the other. Also, the lawyer herself was instrumental in helping the police nab the culprits by carrying out her own investigation.
 
 The police said that lawyer Reshma Nadeem had bought the ornaments for her wedding. The gold, cash, a cellphone and laptop, were stolen her flat at Yusuf Building in Grant Road in January, two months before the wedding.
  
 Nadeem and her parents had left for Gujarat on January 6 and returned on January 11. When she returned, she found the safe was broken into.
  
 There was no sign of any forced break-in and the safe, which was concealed inside a wall, had also been opened with duplicate keys, said Nadeem. “The circumstances pointed to an insider job," said Nadeem, adding that she gave the police the details of the mason, plumber and carpenter who had recently renovated their house.
  
 Around February, even as the police probe was on, Nadeem noticed that her office boy Ayub Sharif, also a distant relative, had suddenly affording a lavish lifestyle -a swanky phone, commuting by cabs which wasn't usual for him.
  
 The police were told about this and through their contacts, they zeroed in on his “close friend" Hussain Ali Sardar alias Bangali.
  
 “After some coaxing, Bangali told us that Sharif and he had carried out the theft, but Sharif had cheated him by not giving him what he had promised to," said Nadeem.
  
 He even handed over a cellphone and laptop which they had stolen from Nadeem's maternal home and told them that they had sold some of the jewellery. Nadeem and her husband video-recorded his confession after which the police picked up Sharif.
  
 Additional commissioner of police Praveen Padwal confirmed the arrest. He said that the accused will be produced in court on Sunday.
 
