KOLKATA: The   on Tuesday arrested   leader   in the Rs 17,000-crore Rose Valley scam, giving an all-new dimension to the conflict between Bengal CM   and PM   over demonetisation, with the CM calling it “Trinamool-bandi after notebandi“.

 The arrest immediately led to cries of “political vendetta“ -with Mamata daring the Centre to “arrest all of us“ -and triggered street fights after Trinamool workers laid siege to the state BJP headquarters in central Kolkata. Senior Trinamool leaders staged a dharna in front of the CBI's Salt Lake office from where Bandyopadhyay was flown to Bhubaneswar later at night.The MP himself called his arrest a “reward for good performance in Parliament“. Bandyopadhyay , a four-time MP and former Union minister, is the fifth and most high-profile Trinamool leader to be arrested in Ponzi scamrelated cases so far. On Friday , another party MP , Tapas Paul, was arrested in the same case.
 
 Bandyopadhyay's arrest comes as a huge blow to the Trinamool camp and its leader who, by her own admission, had not expected it even though she had repeatedly accused the Modi government of political vendetta.
 
 “Sudip Bandyopadhyay is a very senior leader. He is the Trinamool Parliamentary Party leader. I can't believe they have arrested Sudipda.From what I gather from my sources in the Enforcement Directorate and the CBI, instructions are coming from the top to go for our ministers and MPs -Abhishek Banerjee, Firhad Hakim (Bobby), Sovan Chatterjee, Subhendu Adhikari, Moloy Ghatak.... They are also after my family members. I dare them to arrest all of us. I know why they are doing this. They had put pressure on me to keep silent. But I didn't buckle under pressure. I am committed to the people's cause, come what may ,“ Mamata said immediately after Bandyopadhyay's arrest. A little later, she called all her party MPs to Trinamool Bhavan and chalked out protest programmes across 10 states, beginning with Kolkata and New Delhi on Wednesday .
 
 BJP leader and the party's Bengal minder, Siddharth Nath Singh, rubbished the Trinamool's “political conspiracy“ theory and said, “The CBI is investigating the Ponzi scam under the directive of the Supreme Court. It is a legal process. Chit-fund companies have looted people in Bengal, and Trinamool leaders have a hand in such companies.“
 
 The CBI revived the two-year-old Rose Valley case last week with notices to Paul and Bandyopadhyay even as the Enforcement Directorate attached the group's assets worth Rs 1,250 crore. According to investigating officials, Bandyopadhyay was placed under arrest only after he parried several questions about his ties with the Rose Valley group.
 
 Late at night, Bandyopadhyay's wife, Naina, and party leader Chandrima Bhattacharya filed police complaints against the CBI in Bidhannagar North PS and Anandapur PS alleging conspiracy and concealing of information. According to sources in the CBI, Sudip Bandyopadhyay kept silent when asked why he had attended a delegate meeting of the Rose Valley Group at Netaji Indoor Stadium when he was aware of the company's operations as a member of the parliamentary standing committee on finance. He also had no answers when asked who sponsored his foreign tours or who gifted him a sedan.
 
 The agency has reasons to believe that Rose Valley sponsored three foreign trips -to a south Asian country, a Middle Eastern state and the US. The husband of a Tollywood star had allegedly accompanied the Trinamool leader. The investigators suspect Bandyopadhyay went along with those who helped Rose Valley boss Gautam Kundu park money outside the country .The agency is also tracking the MP's alleged role in helping the group buy a hotel in central Kolkata. According to sources, the hotel was up for sale at Rs 60 crore when Kundu suddenly started bidding for it and finally bought if for Rs 122 crore. It is alleged that a part of the payment was refunded to Kundu at a hotel in Kathmandu.
 
 While leaving the state secreta riat at Nabanna on Tuesday evening, Mamata said: “It isn't a big deal if I am to believe for the sake of argument that Sudip took Rs 2-3 lakh for elections. I am not sure about it. But, going by the same argument, CBI minister Modi should also be arrested. From where did Modi get the money for a suit worth crores? BJP leaders take the help of Adani Group to bring funds from abroad. They are the mother of all thieves.“
 
 The Trinamool chief didn't spare the Left either. “All the chit-fund re the Left either. “All the chit-fund companies were set up in the Eighties when the Left was in power. I want to ask why (CPM leaders) Sujan Chakrabarty , Rabin Deb or Mohammed Selim are not being arrested. Why is the CBI silent on Babul Supriyo and Roopa Ganguly who were regulars on Rupashi Bangla channel (owned by the Rose Valley Group)? The central agency never questioned Congress MP Abu Hasem Khan Chowdhury on why he gave a clean chit to the Rose Valley Group,“ Mamata said in defence of her political-conspiracy theory .
 
