MUMBAI: Around Rs 1.56 crore was stolen on Thursday afternoon from a cash   waiting to refill a State Bank of India   in  . 

 While the guard and an ATM handler were refilling the ATM, two men took out a   chest from the rear of the unlocked van, calmly walked away and fled in a taxi. They were gone before anyone realised what was happening; the van driver and his associate were chatting in the front seat.
 
 The incident took place at around 3pm, near the T-Junction in Dharavi. The cops said they have got CCTV footage of the persons walking away and have begun a probe. 
 
 A source said after the guard and cash handler took out a cash chest from the rear of the van, they shut the door and pulled the latch, but did not lock it for some reason. 
 
 The four employees of the cash depositing firm who were accompanying the money in the van were identified as Prateik Jadhav, Gyaneshwar Patil, security guard Prajapati Girja and the driver identified only as Chaudhry. They are being questioned at the police station. “We have begun the probe and are going through all the angles,” said R D Shinde, additional commissioner of police.
 
 Pravinkumar Padwal, deputy police commissioner, said that they had obtained CCTV footage of the area. “The CCTV pictures are not very clear. In the footage, two persons can be seen walking with the cash trunk and sitting in a taxi,” said Padwal. Police later cordoned off the area opposite ONGC, on Sant Rohidas Marg, where the vehicle was parked.
 
 Several police and crime branch teams reached the spot and at Dharavi police station after they learnt about the theft. A police source said, “The cash van left Goregaon and collected cash from a centre in BKC. It then went to Dharavi to refill cash in the ATM. While the guard and handler of the ATM got down and took out a chest of cash from the rear door of the van, they pulled the latch but for some reason did not lock it. They went ahead to refill the ATM. The guard was not carrying any weapon too,” said the source. Even as the rear door of the van was not locked, the two people sitting in the front seats did not even get down to guard that door. Around 3.05pm, a passerby informed Girja, who was standing outside the ATM, that two men had taken away a box from the rear door of the van. Panicked, Girja informed the ATM handler who ran to see what had happened. They found the rear door open and a cash trunk missing.
 
 All the employees searched for the bag and ran in the direction indicated by the passerby, but in vain. They later informed their office and called up the police control room. “At least one person should have guarded the rear door of the cash van. They even did not bother to lock it. We are questioning suspects and recording statements of all the four employees. We will crack the case soon,” added an officer. All the four are currently under the scanner and their call records are being examined as police are not ruling out an insider’s hand. Police said a recce could have been carried out before the crime was executed.
 
 
