THIRUVANANTHAPURAM:   has said that the   was ' not a matter of out-of-court settlement but a matter of law '. He said the onus lies with the   to adjudicate on the dispute. 

 "Any possibility for an out-of-court settlement got sealed once the Babri Masjid got demolished. It's now a land title case, involving a disputed land, and the court has to determine who the owner of the land is," he told reporters here on Friday. Yechuri also termed Congress party's 'vacillation' over the dispute as 'unfortunate'. 
 
 Condemning the attacks on slaughter houses and moral policing by ' ' in Uttar Pradesh, the CPM general secretary said that his party will demand the central government to ensure protection of the  .
 
 "With the BJP in the process of implementing   through an RSS pracharak as the chief minister, the state is witnessing vigilante groups, terrorising the minorities with the attacks on slaughter houses," he said.
 
 Pointing out a 'dangerous pattern' of BJP implementing the RSS agenda in states across the country, Yechury said 'Hindutwa' and 'development' were being projected as 'one entity'. " The BJP's victory in UP wasn't due to the opposition's failure, but achieved through communal polarisation of Muslims and social engineering of various castes," he added.
 
 "If the BJP had projected the RSS pracharak as the chief minister candidate before elections, the party wouldn't have garnered these many votes. This is not victory, but just an electoral management," Yechury asserted.
 
 The CPM general secretary also alleged that the BJP government was trying to smuggle 40 new legislations, including the Copyrights Act and Companies Act, into the Finance Bill, denying opportunity for the opposition to seek amendments. "The amendment on Companies Act will allow corporates to make unlimited donations to political parties through electoral bonds. With a single window system for making these donations, the companies do not have to reveal the beneficiaries, which can lead to money laundering. Modi's promise of ending corruption by political parties is an eyewash," he said.
 
