Jalandhar: Former Gravesham mayor Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi (38), who has his roots in Jalandhar district, is Labour candidate from Slough, a constituency already held by the party, for the UK general elections. Given the background of the seat that Labour won it with a margin of 7,500 votes, Dhesi is hoping to become first turbaned-MP in the UK parliament.

 He has been picked up after outgoing MP Fiona Mactaggart announced to stand down recently after representing the constituency for 20 years. Another Sikh candidate picked up by Labour party is Preet Kaur Gill, who would be contesting from Birmingham Edgbaston, which is also held by the party.
 
 “Humbled to be selected as #UK #Labour’s Parliamentary Candidate for #Slough. Hope to have the honour of serving the town where I was born and raised,” Dhesi said in his first reaction after Labour party decided his candidature.
 
 Dhesi, who did most of his primary schooling in Jalandhar, later studied in three of the most prestigious universities in UK. While he pursued mathematics with management studies at University College London, later he went on to study applied statistics at Keble College, Oxford University. Then he studied history and politics of South Asia and its connections with Great Britain while doing his M Phil at Fitzwilliam College, Cambridge University. 
 
 His father Jaspal Singh Dhesi, who now runs a construction company in UK, was the president of Gurdwara Guru Nanak Darbar, Gravesend, largest Gurudwara in UK sprawling over 805 acres, for several years.
 
 Dhesi was Labour candidate from the Gravesham parliamentary constituency but lost in the last general elections across UK. Dhesi, whose family now lives in Phagwara and originally hails from Raipur village in Jalandhar.
 
 He was first elected to Gravesham Borough Council from the Northfleet North ward in 2007. During his first term, he served as shadow cabinet member in the opposition (within the Conservative Party run council). He was also unanimously elected as Chair of the Gravesham Labour Party twice, before stepping down upon being unanimously elected as Mayor of Gravesham in May 2011, when the Labour Party took control of the council. 
 
 He was the youngest Sikh mayor in Europe. He broke the record in raising funds for the mayoral charity and good causes during his term and also pushed for stronger ties between Gravesham and his ancestral city of Jalandhar in the Punjab, which are now twinned with each other. 
 
 Since stepping down as Mayor after the end of his term in May 2012, he was appointed as a member of the Cabinet in Gravesham Borough Council, being in charge of the business and the community portfolio. He also served as a governor on the board of governors of two local schools and successfully organised the first UK National Gatka Championship in Gravesham, in his capacity as the president of the Gatka Federation UK.
 
 
