CHENNAI: After most accidents there is a question that remains unanswered – how did the accident happen? Was the driver rash or negligent? Was he surprised by something? Or was the road too slippery?

 In the absence of cameras or eye witnesses, the answers, experts say, can lie in the injuries sustained by the victim, dead or alive. The state health department is planning a massive Trauma Accident Initiative, which will not only expedite treatment in emergency rooms but also research on what caused it.
 
 The average time taken by police to reach an accident spot on a highway is between one and three hours, during which vital evidence is lost. “While we mostly come in after an accident, we plan to go a step further towards prevention. If we reconstruct the incident we may be able to help traffic police and road engineers prevent it,” said state health secretary Dr J Radhakrishnan.
 
 Injury analysis, experts say, can reveal how an accident occurred. For instance, a direct trauma to the brain called coup injury can occur when the skull strikes a steering wheel in a car accident. But in contrecoup injury or blunt head trauma, the head can suffer a hit on one side but the injury can be on the opposite side of the brain. “These types of injuries occur when the head jerks and strikes a stationary object such as windshield, possibly because the driver is surprised. This couls be because of someone suddenly appearing in front of the car or a lack of proper signage,” said a senior neurosurgeon.
 
 According to the  , there were 17,376 deaths and 70,801 road accidents in 2015. One of the major problems about accidents on   is time taken in reaching accidents spots. To reduce the response time, the department is planning to use technology – a smartphone app for 108 ambulances will tell call centres and drivers the exact location of the accident. “Most of the time callers find it difficult to tell us where they are. This app will give us the latitude and longitude of the accident spot even if the accident victims don’t have internet access,” said B Prabhudoss, head of marketing at Emergency Management Research Institute.
 
 The team will also use algorithms to position ambulances closer to accident hotspots. “A pilot study near   and Krishnagiri between January and March last year found up to four minutes reduction in response time by having ambulances closer to accident hotspots. If we combine this with the app, we will be able to save close to 10 minutes,” said a senior official. Doctors, and paramedical staff will be given training programmes, and a postgraduate courses in emergency medicine will be introduced soon.
 
 The state also plans to convert state-run hospitals on highways into   centres or emergency rooms. While ambulances will work as level-IV hospitals, emergency stabilisation centres with 2-bed ICU facilities will be setup on highways. At least 17 smaller hospitals with five ICU beds and five in-patient beds will be labelled level III hospitals, besides level II and level I hospital categories. “Smaller hospitals will initiate primary treatment and stabilise patients before referring them to tertiary care centres,” said a senior doctor.
 
 
