KOZHIKODE: Dr P P Venugopalan, executive director of ANGELS (Active Network Group of Emergency Lifesavers) International Foundation has received positive response from the ministry of health and family welfare for the suggestions he had put forth to establish an effective emergency   in the country for the handling of emergency cases. 

 He submitted number of suggestions through the government of India portal for centralised public grievance redress and monitoring system (CPGRAMS) on February 23, 2017 after the controversy over emergency care was raised following the death of E Ahamed MP who had suffered a cardiac arrest inside the Parliament.
 
 Dr Venugopalan sought the attention of the central government on the importance of establishing a quality emergency care and the need of providing better training and equipping the system from Parliament to primary health centre.
 
 He also suggested the government to execute a project like   in the   to create   and the need of   of emergency medical care with community participation. He also urged the government to improve the existing emergency response pre-hospital care system and the need of introducing national ambulance system and the need of introducing community based ambulance network to augment emergency access at low cost.
 
 The suggestions also included need for introducing national guidelines for emergency room and ICU resuscitation protocol and the need of forming national level committee to review it at the hospitals across the country.
 
 Dr Venugopalan also sought the government intervention to make basic life support training programme as a mandatory one in the school syllabus and include advanced life support training in medical syllabus. He also urged the government to take steps to ensure that each healthcare provide undergoes effective communication skills training.
 
 Dr Venugopalan, executive director of ANGELS international foundation, said he has received a reply intimating that the prime minister office had received the suggestions and have forwarded the matter to the Department of Health and Family Welfare.
 
 "I am hopeful that the government will takes steps to address the matters to improve the existing emergency medical care in the country and to put in place an effective system," he said.
 
