BENGALURU: The process of   just got a lot simpler. Citizens who wish to buy or rent property will no longer have to visit a   to register properties and get certified  .

 The stamps and registration department has launched   (http:kaverionline.karnataka.gov.in) that allows online registration of properties and also free downloading of property registration documents, including certified sale deeds and encumbrance certificates.
 
 “We have successfully tested this service at our Gandhinagar (Bengaluru) sub-registrar office, and soon it will be available across sub-registrar offices in Karnataka. Once launched, people can get property documents from anywhere,“ said Inspector-General of Registration and Commissioner of Stamps Manoj Kumar Meena.
 
 With introduction of the service, citizens no longer have to depend on real estate agents or make multiple trips to subregistrar offices to procure certified hard copies of property transactions. It also reduces the possibility of cheating by opening up the  .
 
 Officials said that the time required to download a document from the website will be less than 30 minutes, and will be paid service. This, however, is a big improvement on the current state of affairs, where procuring hard copies of a certified document can often take several days.
 
 The office of property registration plays a crucial role as it authenticates sale or transfer of immovable property. Its registration helps fix ownership or right on a property. The department, roughly , receives at least 15-20 lakh queries, seeking copies of documents from sub-registrar offices every year across Karnataka.
 
 Officials said the service will be added with an 'esearch' facility that facilitates the process of selecting real estate. A citizen interested in purchasing a property, for instance, on MG Road but would first like to conduct a thorough search of records, now only needs to know its city survey number and subregistrar office concerned.
 
 It also provides detailed search results of registered transactions of properties since 2003, and is, therefore, expected to check fraudulent transactions to an extent.
 
 Meena said the facility will make the registration process more citizen-friendly, and will drastically reduce footfall at sub-registrar offices, and increase their work efficiency. Roughly, 30% of the people visiting sub-registrar offices come for certified copies of registered documents.
 
 Prakash R, a property consultant and RTI activist, welcomed the initiative, but cautioned that its effectiveness will be known only after extended use. “It can bring down corruption, considering that sub-registrar offices in Karnataka have been a hub of sleaze and bribery. But officials themselves may not allow technology to function smoothly, if its harms their interest,“ he said.
 
