The next time you decide to find someone special online, do a rethink. That seemingly harmless act where you might swipe right or left for love, might have a few repercussions. As per reports, after you may have rejected someone on  , that person could still sneak into your   account and stalk you there. This has been happening as the   app has allowed its users to link their profiles with their Instagram accounts. 

 
 What happens is, that men who failed to find a match, have started using the link to chat up with these ladies. So, if you get a direct message from someone you have rejected, watch out as you’ve just been ‘Tindstagrammed’! It could result in a situation that’s tough to handle. 
 Says Andheri-based marketing executive, Nishta Somani, “I had logged onto the dating app three weeks ago and came across a person’s profile. I accepted him, but after a conversation, I didn’t want to take things ahead and declined. To my shock, he suddenly popped up on my Instagram account after a few days and started to add likes to my photos. I then sent him a stern message to stop doing that; it felt creepy,” she shares.
 Arvi Shah, an engineer from Navi Mumbai, recalls a similar experience. “I met this guy online recently. He said he was glad I accepted him. I’m someone who prefers taking my time to know someone, and so I had shared just two pictures of myself on the app. But he was already onto my photo-sharing profile and in no time, he had seen seen all my family photos. I didn’t like this intrusion, but there was little I could do as I hadn’t realised that I had linked my account to this site. I think we should also be careful about what we allow others to see online, so it’s our fault as well,” she states. 
 
 
 
  
  
 Guess what? A study says almost half of all men, but only 20% of women admit they have used a dating app while in a relationship. More than half of the people polled insisted they would ditch their partner if they found him or her looking for romance online. But a fifth “wouldn’t mind” their lover using one of the apps. Niamh McCarthy, of the firm that carried out the survey, also said, “Within the last two to three years we have seen a rise in dating apps being referred to in divorce proceedings.” 
 Another study by researchers at the   points out that having too many online dating choices can lead to dissatisfaction. 
 
 
 
 
  Stringing someone along. 
 
 Dumping someone, lock, stock and barrel
 Keeping someone at hand on a bench. 
 
 Displaying a moon-shaped ‘Do not disturb’ icon on your phone. 
 
  Hiding someone away from your friends and family.
 
  
 
