NEW DELHI: There was no specific intelligence about Monday's attack on Amarnath pilgrims in Anantnag but primary analysis by agencies suggests that it could be the result of frustration among terrorists who are on the run due to the aggressive line of security forces. 

 According to official figures, Army, CRPF and Jammu & Kashmir Police are literally hunting down terrorists in the Valley with over 100 killed till Tuesday this year as compared to 150 in the whole of 2016. Officials said out of the 100 terrorists killed in major joint operations this year, 33 belonged to Lashkar-e-Taiba and 23 to Hizbul-Mujahideen. 
 
  Sources said some of the big names gunned down in the last months included LeT's district commander   (who was listed among A++ category of wanted terrorists in the valley); another top commander of Pakistan-based outfit Abu Haris; outfit's divisional commander Abu Musaib; and   commanders Sabzar Ahmad Bhat, Aquib Ahmad Bhat, Abu Hamza and Gulzar Ahmad Lone. 
 
  According to a senior official who coordinates joint operations with army, CRPF and J&K police's SOG, most of the terrorists have been neutralised in Budgam, Kupwara, Kulgam, Baramulla, Anantnag, Bandipore and Pulwama. He said while 57 terrorists have been killed in joint operations, 43 were killed while infiltrating from Pakistan. 
 
 "Specific intelligence is being gathered on terrorists hidings in villages and they are being targeted as part of coordinated operations. For example, three terrorists - Javid Ahmed, Sheikh Dawood Ahmed and Aaquib Gul - were neutralised in Budgam on Tuesday night after security forces zeroed in on the house where they were holed up," said an official who didn't wish to be named. 
 
 The officials are, however, concerned about 150 terrorists, including 40-50 who infiltrated from Pakistan, who are still present in south Kashmir.
 
 Monday’s attack though didn’t dampen the spirit of yatris. According to the data of Amarnath Shrine Board, a day after the attack, 10926 yatris travelled from Pahalgam and Baltal.
 
