In the latest episode of  ,   is seen looking at a wedding outfit with tears in her eyes. Biji comes and asks her what is the matter. She says that she had two daughters and lost her younger daughter forever. Biji says that he also lost her son at a very young age and hasn't seen him since.
 
  The door bell rings and Sarla is surprised to see   ( ) standing there with two girls. When Sarla enquires about them, he says that he saw them walking on the road with their luggage and asked them to sit in their car. When they told him that they were looking for a paying guest accommodation, he thought of bringing them to Sarla's house.
  
  Sarla welcomes them in and shows them Pragya's room.   asks her the name of her daughter and she is shocked to hear Sarla says Pragya's name. While telling them about her daughter, Sarla starts crying and leaves from the room.   calls Sarla too talkative and emotional, when preeta starts comparing her to Sarla and reveals to her that she is their mother.
  
  Meanwhile, Karan ( ) returns home to his dadi who had been waiting for him. He makes his girlfriends sit and walks towards his mother when Rishabh comes and pulls his ears for being late. Dadi sees the girls and asks them to leave. Rishabh then asks Karan to be more serious in his career as he has just won BPL and there are many more things in life.
  
  Karan has hangover, so Rishabh arranges his room for him and makes him sleep.
  
  Sarla wakes up to loud music the next day and is furious at the girls, Biji calms her down. She walks up to see them in their room and is reminded of Pragya and Bulbul on seeing them behave like her daughters. She thinks that they might help her flush the old memories.
  
  
 
  
  Srishti tells Preeta that she would become a model and then date  . Preeta isn't too happy about her plans.
  
  Later, Preeta goes out to look for a job as they have to pay the rent of the house every month.
  
  Rishabh is seen giving a packet of lunch to dadi, when a boy comes and takes it from them and runs away. The boy bumps into Preeta, who stops Rishabh and the rest running after him. She tells them not to harm th boy as he is hungry.
  
  Keep watching this space for more updates on Kundali Bhagya.
