PATNA: The soil purchase deal between the Patna zoo and a private   took a new turn on Friday with former deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi implicating even former CM   in the “illegal deal” along with her sons deputy CM Tejashwi Yadav and forest minister   Yadav.

 The mall is being developed on a two-acre plot which is owned by Lara Projects LLP, Modi said at a press conference, adding Lara has Rabri, Tejashwi and Tej on its board of directors.
 
 Furnishing documents to substantiate his charge, the leader of opposition in the legislative council claimed Lara was the new name of Delight Marketing Pvt Ltd, which was rechristened in November last year. The land was given to Delight in 2005 by Sujata Hotel Private Limited director Harsh Kochar in lieu of “fraudulent transfer” of two hotels of the Indian Railways to Sujata during the tenure of Rabri’s husband   Prasad as the railways minister, the BJP MLC said.
 
 Modi said neither Tej nor Tejashwi disclosed their directorial positions in the firm in their asset declaration forms submitted to the Election Commission during the assembly election in 2015.
 
 “Lara is a classic example of a ‘shell company’ formed to convert black money into white,” said Modi, who was also the finance minister in the Nitish Kumar government from 2005 to 2013. According to him, Rabri holds 2,402 shares while Tej and Tejashwi hold 800 shares each in the firm.
 
 Modi said Lalu, who is the president of RJD, should explain how a firm run by his wife and sons came to own the Rs 200-crore land on which the Rs 500-crore mall was coming up at Saguna Mor. 
 
 “I have evidence to prove that the upcoming mall is owned by Lalu’s family,” Modi said and dared CM Nitish Kumar to order an inquiry into the matter.
 
 Meanwhile, Tej on Friday tweeted that Modi’s son was on the board of directors of a firm, which is constructing a mall at Lodipur in Patna. This mall is being constructed by Utkarsh Sfatik Limited and the name of Modi’s son is Utkarsh Tathagat, the tweet said and added Modi’s brother Mahavir Modi was also a shareholder in this firm.
 
