New York:  , founder and chairperson,  , has become the first South Asian to be honoured by the   ( ) in New York for her philanthropic work in the areas of education, sports, healthcare, rural transformation, urban renewal, disaster response, women’s empowerment and promotion of the arts.

 The Met, recognised as one of the most iconic museums in the world, is currently located at three celebrated sites of New York — The Met Fifth Avenue, The Met Breuer, and The Met Cloisters — and houses over 5,000 years of art from around the world.
 
 The Met was impressed by the diversity and scale of the work carried out by Reliance Foundation, led by Nita Ambani. The direction she gives the foundation has helped it to focus its work on sustainable urban and rural transformation as well as healthcare, education, grassroots development through sport, and women’s empowerment, according to a statement. The foundation supports Indian art and aims to take it across the globe. It has benefited over 10 million Indians, touching the lives of individuals across more than 10,500 urban areas and villages.
 
 Nita Ambani said, “I am delighted and humbled by this honour for our work at Reliance Foundation. It is truly gratifying that our efforts, especially in education, sports, health and rural transformation, are bringing smiles to millions of people. This recognition from a distinguished global institution like The Met is a tribute to our commitment towards sustainable development and social empowerment, and will inspire each one of us at Reliance Foundation to constantly do the best to make the world a better place for the next generation.”
 
 Nita Ambani’s work in developing sports in India was recognised by the International Olympic Committee (IOC), which elected her as its first Indian woman member. She is currently the only member from India in the  .
 
 The event at The Met, hosted by the museum’s Multicultural Audience Development Initiative, celebrates The Metropolitan Museum of Art’s diverse communities and raises awareness and support for the Audience Development Department.
 
 
