PUNE: Chief minister   has directed state officials to allot government land in Shivajinagar and   to the Pune metro project and clear all hurdles by June 17.

 Fadnavis chaired a meeting in Mantralaya on Tuesday in which he reviewed the progress of various infrastructure and irrigation projects. He later tweeted the decisions made in the meeting.
 
 Fadnavis also instructed authorities to turn Swargate into an integrated multi-modal transport hub, and said similar integration should be implemented even in Shivajinagar for better coordination among the transport services.
 
 The chief minister also discussed the possibility of making Maha-Metro a special planning authority . The Maha-Metro rail corpo ration, which is constructing the two metro rail corridors in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, has been eyeing government land to for the metro rail stations and depots in various locations.
 
 A crucial proposal to establish an interchange station at the government foodgrain godown in Shivajinagar, near civil court, was discussed in Tuesday's meeting. The godown is centrally located and will cater to metro rail's requirements. Two routes -PCMC-Swargate and Vanaz-Ramwadi -are expected cross at this point. Also, a third route proposed from   to Shivajinagar is also expected to have a station here.
 
 Another proposal is to set up a metro rail depot at the college of agriculture in Shivajinagar.The state government owns both parcels of land at the moment, and, pursuant to the chief minister's directives, will hand it over to Maha-Metro.
 
 Brijesh Dixit, managing director of Maha-Metro, said the corporation had put forth various proposals for land acquisition, including the interchange station at Shivajinagar godown and depots at college of agriculture, Katraj, Vanaz and Ahmednagar Road. Dixit said the proposals were being discussed at length with the authorities concerned.
 
 Maha-Metro has maintained that not every station requires land, as many stations are either elevated or underground. Apart from entry and exit zones, the stations will not need much space. However, some major stations will require land which will come from the government.
 
