NOIDA: In the first suspected cases of swine flu to be reported from GB Nagar district this year, two children — one from Noida and the other from   — have tested positive for the disease after their medical examination was conducted at private laboratories.

 However, their specimens will now be tested at the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) for confirmation.
 
 Both the patients are boys under 10 years of age and the health department sent their reports to the NCDC on Monday. Officials said that since the NCDC has quite a few pending samples for testing in its laboratories, it might take a few days for the results to come in.
 
 With these cases, the total number of swine flu cases detected in hospitals of Gautam Budh Nagar has reached five so far in 2017.
 
 Earlier this year, two patients from Delhi and one from Ghaziabad had tested positive for the disease. One of the patients from Delhi, Nalini   (49), had died of the disease at Fortis Hospital, Noida, on April 19.
 
 Chief medical officer ( ) Anurag Bhargav told TOI that the other two patients are Ashish Katyal (47) of Ghaziabad and M M Maya (64) of Delhi, who were admitted to Fortis hospital, Sector 62, and Metro Hospital, Sector 12, respectively. Out of these two, Katyal has been discharged from the hospital after complete recovery.
 
 In GB Nagar on Tuesday, officials said one had to wait for the confirmation report from the NCDC on the suspected cases of swine flu.
 
 “We are waiting for the final reports from the NCDC as the condition of both the patients is not very serious. We have decided to distribute pamphlets with precautions against the disease in schools, etc,” district malaria officer Rajesh Sharma said. Last year, a Noida patient who had tested positive for dengue was later declared free of the disease by the NCDC.
 
 Additional CMO Dr Rajiv Prasad said that out of the two patients, the seven-year-old belonged to Noida’s Sector 121 while the nine-year old belonged to Greater Noida. “The former tested positive for   virus at   while the latter tested positive at a private laboratory, Dr Lal Pathlabs,” he said.
 
 The health department has announced that all necessary precautions would be taken to prevent the spread of the flu.
 
 “A four-bed ward has been created at the district hospital, Sector 30, for swine flu cases. We have also directed that the doctors at the district hospital be vaccinated for the virus,” Bhargav said.
 
