JAIPUR: The House was adjourned for nearly 45 minutes during the zero hour on Friday, as NPP legislator Kirori Lal Meena created a ruckus in an attempt to raise an issue without the Speaker’s permission.

 Speaker Kailash Meghwal was so infuriated that he initially cancelled permissions granted to other legislators to raise issues during zero hour and ordered that the scheduled debate on budgetary demands for health department should begin as soon as the house reassembles after the adjournment.
 
 However, when the House reassembled under deputy speaker Rao Rajendra Singh at 1 pm, the legislators were informed that the Speaker had relented and agreed to let issues be taken up as per permissions granted just before the ruckus began earlier in the day.
 
 Legislator Meena, though, complained that he was being denied permission to speak as the Speaker was harsh towards him. Rao told Meena it was improper to make allegations against the chair and that he should meet the Speaker in his chamber to sort out the matter.
 
 Speaking to reporters on the assembly premises, Meena said he wanted to raise the issue of repayment made by the state government to National Unionist   president B D Agarwal. “Agarwal donated Rs 10 crore to Sriganganagar Nagar Parishad for sewerage works, the foundation stone of which was laid by the then chief minister  . Though 70% work of the project was completed, the present BJP government returned the entire amount, along with an interest of Rs 1.79-crore, to Agarwal in 2016,” Meena said.
 
 The NPP legislator alleged that the repayment was made, in violation of rules, to “buy” votes of Zamindara Party, which has two MLAs, for the   elections held in the state in 2016. “Since the votes were bought by BJP, the Rajya Sabha elections should be annulled,” Meena said.
 
 Zamindara Party   Kamini Jindal, who is daughter of Agarwal, told TOI, “My father donated the money for ‘Jan-Sahbhagi Yojana’ of 2012 under which the district collector invited private contributions for works related to passage of rainwater. Since the work has not started till date and the government failed to fulfil the preconditions for using the donation, we reclaimed the amount.”
 
 Jindal added, “As per conditions, the government has neither contributed a matching grant for the rainwater work nor has prepared its DPR till date. The 70% work completion that the   is referring to is an RUIDP sewerage project, which is completely different from the Jan-Sahbhagi Yojana rainwater project.” She refuted Meena’s allegation about BJP ‘buying’ Zamindara Party votes for Rajya Sabha elections. “We voted for BJP on principles. It’s a pity such a senior MLA is making allegations on basis of rumours,” Jindal told TOI.
 
 Pollution board progress report tabled
 
 Environment minister Gajendra Singh Khimsar tabled the pollution control board’s progress report for 2015-16 and its audit reports of past 14 financial years, from 2002-03 to 2015-16, on Friday. A day earlier, deputy speaker Rao Rajendra Singh had reprimanded the minister for the department’s failure to table the reports all these years.
 
 
