Ghaziabad: A 22-year-old woman allegedly committed suicide in Khora Colony’s Ved Vihar on Friday. The woman’s brother, however, claimed she was killed by her husband for dowry. He also told police that the woman was being harassed by her in-laws for the past few months.

 Deepa, alias Shashi, allegedly hung herself from the ceiling fan at around 10.15am, according to her in-laws. The body, however, was found on the floor when the cops reached their home.
 
 The brother of the deceased,  , told cops Deepa had called her younger brother, Sunil, at around 1am on Friday and she was crying for help. “She called my younger brother, Sunil, around 1 am and spoke to my mother. Deepa was sobbing and wanted us to help her. She was repeating again and again that her husband would kill her,” he said. Rakesh said her mother decided to wait till the morning to reach out to her again. 
 
 He also mentioned that Deepa often made such distress calls to her family . “She married Krishna nearly ten months ago. She regretted her decision within three-four months of the wedding. Her in-laws had been harassing her for dowry. We even helped her financially several times but once the money was spent, they would thrash her again. She was also starved for food by her in-laws,” said Rakesh.
 
 Rakesh claimed that Deepa’s body had several injury marks on her arms, neck and forehead and she was thrashed brutally before her death. “Soon after her wedding, we had filed an FIR against her husband for eloping with my sister. However, no action could be taken as it was a consensual marriage. Krishna works as a computer operator and does not earn well,” he added.
 
 Deepa’s family has filed an FIR against her in-laws at Khora police station under sections 304B (dowry death) and 198A (prosecution of offences under section 498A of IPC) of the IPC. The body was sent for postmortem and further investigation is under way. “We are awaiting the postmortem report to ascertain whether it was a case of suicide or murder,” said SHO   Chaubey.
 
