MONACO: Hugh Grant calls it the Oscars of sports awards minus the Hollywood stars (apart from the host himself), crying actors and  ! What the 2017 Laureus World Sports Awards did celebrate was two heroes -   and Simone Biles - from the 2016 Rio Olympics, announcing the names of two as the World Sportsman and Sportswoman of the Year here on Tuesday night.

 Usain St Leo Bolt who has a habit of breaking records - five world records in 100 and 200m are testament to the fact - added another big one to his kitty by winning the   for the fourth time since its inception in 2000, getting level with another legend, Roger Federer. 
 
 “Laureus is one of the biggest awards for me. This is my 4th award and to be equalling it with someone like Roger Federer is great. I am in great company. It is special,” Bolt said after claiming the award on Tuesday night. Biles, who won four gold medals and a bronze at the 2016 Olympics, won the award for the first time, taking over from   who claimed it last year. There was more American delight as Michael Phelps walked away with the Comeback of the Year award.
 
 Phelps made his mark at his final Olympics with five gold and one silver to top out his career with a total of 28 Olympic medals in all. It was a phenomenal comeback in the last stages of his glittering career following another DUI arrest, a suspension and absence from Team USA's roster at the 2015 World Championships.
 
 Hometown hero Nico Rosberg walked away with the Breakthrough of the Year award after spending 10 years as an F1 driver and then promptly walking away from the sport.
 
 “Laureus is the sports Oscar for me. I grew up just 40 minutes away from here and dreamt of winning it when the inaugural award was held here in 2000,” Rosberg, who came with his wife Viviane for the function, said.
 
 Asked about his most sensational moment in his 206-race F1 career, Rosberg said, “It has to be the last two laps in final Grand Prix of the season in Abu Dhabi. I didn't know if my life's dream will be coming true. It is probably the second-most sensational moment behind watching my wife giving birth to our daughter.”
 
 There were two awards for British sport: the world's greatest downhill mountain biker Rachel Atherton won the Action Sportsperson of the Year, while   won a special Laureus Spirit of Sport Award to mark their remarkable achievement in winning English Premier League as 5,000-1 outsiders. Another historic team performance was Chicago Cubs' first Major League Baseball World Series victory in 108 years, which won them the Laureus Team of the Year Award.
 
