NEW DELHI: A day after being named the party's chief ministerial candidate in Punjab,   state unit chief Capt   came out with all guns blazing to attack his political opponents - the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the   (AAP). 

 "Akalis are total mismanagement. There is corruption, trade loss, and farmers committing suicide. It is a total collapse," Amarinder told ANI on Saturday.
 
 He also came down heavily on SAD chief   for ruining the state through his complicity in corruption and the drug trade.
 
 "Badal is too old to understand. Now, he is busy doing his sangat darshan after giving stepmother-like treatment to the state," the former chief minister railed.
 
 Amarinder promised to throw behind bars Akali leaders such as Bikram Singh Majithia and Tota Singh, who are allegedly involved in food scams and believed to be facilitating the drug mafia.
 
 "I want to break the drug nexus within 4 weeks. We're all aware who's behind this, it is a question of whether the government is willing to take action against them," he said.
 
 Amarinder claimed that the AAP, "with its outsider base", was not in a position to provide stable governance in Punjab.
 
 "There was resentment against the current government, so people thought let's join or support a new party (AAP). Kejriwal is very ambitious but that's not the ambition Punjab needs at the moment," he said.
 
 The Congress leader cautioned the people from being taken in by Kejriwal's "false promises".
 
 "Kejriwal is a sneaky little fellow but I'm a little wary of him as we can't take him for granted, considering the 2014 polls," Amarinder said.
 
 On his frequent spats with Delhi chief minister   on Twitter, he remarked, "I love using social media as I love 'thokoing' and arguing if someone says something I don't think is correct."
 
 Amarinder further dismissed any threat from either the AAP or the SAD in the upcoming Assembly elections and expressed his confidence that Congress will enjoy a landslide victory in the polls.
 
 "I'm a 100 per cent confident of winning. I have vast experience after being in this game for the last 47 years. I never fight an election that I don't win," the former chief minister declared.
 
 Capt Amarinder will be contesting the assembly election from his constituency of   as well as Parkash Singh Badal's home turf of Lambi. The state will go to polls on February 4.
 
 
