India has over 460 million   today, and this figure is sure to rise to 635.8 million by 2021. Cheaper smartphones and a ballooning telecommunications industry have together pushed the country to experience this 'digital high'.

 One aspect where India shares the characteristics of other internet users is its passion for social media. As Anand Thakkar, a   expert says, "There will be an estimated 358.2 million social network users in India by 2021, from the 216.5 million in 2016."
 
 This means that the share of the Indian population that access social networks is expected to jump from around 16.35% to over 25%.
 
 "Accessing social media is one of the key reasons for people to access the internet. In fact, for many people accessing the internet for the first time, social media was the reason they embraced the internet," said the Internet and Mobile Association of India (IMAI) report.
 
 
 
 
 It has been observed that the use of social media produces the same effect as love in the brain by activating the chemical dopamine. The jury is yet to find if social media can truly feed an addiction. Fenil Parikh, a psychologist says, "Being on social media has become a daily habit for many, and for some, a lion's share of the day's attention."
 
 Statistics show that 28% of the internet users check their social media channels before getting out of bed in the morning. "We get a number of cases of teenagers (aged 15-19) who spend at least three hours a day looking at their social channels while the IMAI Report already says that 18% of the social media users can't go more than a few hours without checking what's happening," says Parikh.
 
 
 
 
 "I regularly check in on social media wherever I go," says Prapti Patel, student. Do you reiterate the same phrase? If yes, watch out as someone is keeping tabs on you.
 
 Stories of people's online photos being used for nefarious purposes are easy to find. As an official from a cyber-crime cell affirms, "We recently got a complaint from an armed forces personnel. He said his photo was stolen off his social media account and posted by a scamster under a fake account which was used to con a woman out of thousands of rupees." Deepti Arya, a blogger, was taken aback when she found her family's photo being used in an ad. "We are recently working on a cyber-crime case where a four-year-old child's picture was pulled off the media for rating," says sources at the cyber-crime cell requesting anonymity.
 
 The convenience of sharing photos with friends (and non-friends) through   sites and blogs is undeniable. Unfortunately, so are the dangers. Not only can photos be used by strangers, but many photos, especially those taken by devices with GPS technology, contain tags that reveal exactly where the photos were clicked. To cite an example, if you stay in a rental place alone and post a picture of yours, it's possible for strangers to know where you live.
 
 
 
 
 The illusion of privacy, safety and security in the digital world should be taken care of. As Pavan Duggal, an advocate specialised in the field of cyber law said, "Social media usage will continue to rise in 2017. The legalities concerning social media jurisprudence require more discussions and debate. There is an urgent need to protect women and children on social media from unwarranted exposures and influences and cyber law needs to play a significant role in this."
 
