HYDERABAD: About 158 people died in freak fire accidents across the state in 2016, which experts say could have been avoided had proper fire prevention measures were in place. 

 Experts call for full scale   to be introduced in the state as prevention strategy, which would help them assess   standards in buildings or organisation. It would mean that buildings have to be checked for compliance with   (NBCA).
 
 A total of 220 people were saved from fire accidents and nearly 400 crore property was saved from fire accidents and more than 100 crore worth properties were damaged. Cigarette smoking caused 4821 accidents and electoral origin accidents were 2284, while ovens and stoves caused 181 accidents. The highest number of fire accidents happened in Hyderabad (731) between April- October 2016.
 
 “NBCA has set out guidelines which say require periodical fire safety inspection by the personal to ensure safety standards. The audit must also be carried out for local legislations and enacted by various state government and local bodies on fire prevention, fire protection.   is the best example,” said K Satyanrayana a retired expert.
 
 According to Section 3 of the Maharashtra Fire Prevention and Life Safety Measures Act, 2006, the developer will have to comply with all the fire and safety measures adhering to the National Building Code of India, 2005, and amend it from time to time. Any failure shall be treated as a violation of the Act. A licensed agency is required to issue a certificate regarding the work executed by them in compliance to fire prevention & life safety measures and six monthly certificate in every January & July to the owner or the occupier for compliance of the fire prevention and life safety measures
 
 Currently, Telangana does not have Maharashtra like provisions but fire safety-measures are guided by Fire Services Act 1999. “As per the Act we do inspections of the buildings for which we have no objections certificates which are mostly commercial, and our rules and regulations are also very strict in the given circumstances,” C  , director of fire services department said. Buildings owners can get the fire audit or inspection of the building done by paying prescribed amount of fee to the department.
 
 
