BENGALURU: The   to constitute a panel to look into the legal aspects of providing sanctity to a   has drawn flak, with members of the BJP opposing it and certain national leaders of the ruling Congress too echoing the one-flag argument.

 The   (MHA), under whose jurisdiction the matter comes, is yet to issue an   on the state government's decision.
 
 An MHA official who liaisons with the media said the ministry's views were in public domain and that there was “nothing to say officially about the matter.“ An MHA spokesperson from New Delhi said later in the evening: “The fact is that India is one nation, and there is one flag. As far as Karnataka's decision goes, we cannot guess what the committee (that has been set up) will decide. When a proposal comes to us in this regard, we will examine it.“ According to legal experts, if the commit tee recommends crea tion of such a flag, Karnataka may not need to seek Centre's permission at all.“ The basic principle is that if it is not prohibited, it is permitted. There is no problem with states taking such decisions at their level. The state assembly can decide on the matter and such a decision will prevail till the time it is set aside in any manner,“ said senior  .
 
 “A state doesn't require any other permission from the Centre. As long as you comply with the Central enactment, and not dishonour the national flag, it's okay for a state to decide on the matter,“ he added.
 
 KV Dhananjay, another Supreme Court lawyer agreed with Hegde's interpretation.
 
 Law department officials said they will wait for the committee's report before giving an opinion on the matter, which is in line with CM Siddaramaiah's statements on Tuesday.
 
 
 
 There are three central enactments related to the national flag: The Emblems and Names (Prevention of Improper Use) Act, 1950; Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act, 1971, and the Flag Code of India, 2002. And, none of them prohibit states from having their own flags.
 
 Respecting the national flag is a fundamental duty under Article 51A and once that's satisfied, experts opine there is no problem with states having a flag -legally.
 
 “The Emblems and Names (Prevention of Improper Use) Act, 1950, prohibits use of national flag or any imitation of it for commercial purpose or using it in a title of a patent or trademark of a design. This is the only thing imposed in respect of the national flag, and hoisting a state flag does not violate this,“ former advocate general of Karnataka Ravi Varma Kumar said.
 
 So far as the Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act, 1971, goes, he said that “nobody should burn, mutilate, deface, defy, trample upon, disfigure, or otherwise show disrespect to the Indian national flag. It also speaks about prohibition of use of national flag for personal use, it being an insult to the flag. Again, hoisting the state flag does not mean any insult.
 
 And, finally Part II of the Flag Code of India, 2002, which deals with hoisting or display of the national flag, says that one should not hoist any other flag on the same masthead and that flags being hoisted beside the national flag should not be placed higher than the latter.
 
 “These are the two stipulations and once you satisfy them, by implication, you are allowed to hoist other flags,“ Kumar said, adding that Part III of the Code, in fact, explicitly allows hoisting of flags of other nations.
 
