NEW DELHI: When   of  's   later this month, it would mark the end of a   that is unlikely to be surpassed for a very long time.

 Prasad has held the post for 32 years, which makes him the longest serving principal of a centrally funded institution in the country. The position now has a fixed five-year term, so there's hardly any chance of anyone else serving for a longer period.
 
 While Prasad's longevity is without parallel, what's even more remarkable is the fact that the college had seen 15 different principals in as many years preceding his tenure.
 
 “At that time, it was joked that when a teacher entered the college, he or she would ask the peon, `so, who is the principal today?'“ says Prasad. “I was very young (33 years) and people in the university wondered how many months I would manage.“
 
 Prasad took charge in 1985, when the “decline of the college was at its peak“, says associate professor Debraj Mookerjee. “ And, he turned it around.“
 
 The college is celebrating its centenary this year and, amazingly, has been under Prasad's stewardship for almost a third of that period. The man is also known as the “university's child“, having spent 56 years of his life as a resident of the north campus (his father   taught in the history department).
 
 An astute administrator, he is a man who would back any good idea, would never bow to the whims of higher authorities, “but without any direct confrontation,“ says Mookerjee.
 
 An institution older that the Delhi University itself, Ramjas was one of the first colleges of the university and “had a glorious past,“ according to Mookerjee. The college's role in helping students from refugee families that landed in Delhi after the 1947 partition, providing shelter to thousands of refugees on its premises is part of its glorious contribution.
 
 However, between 1970 and 1985, Ramjas became the epi centre of protest and castebase violence. Armed gang fights were the order of the day.Which is one of the reason why no principal could stay for long. “Lathis and knives were a common sight and at times even country-made pistols were drawn out,“ says Prasad.“My first challenge was to restore the academic atmosphere of the college. The financial and administrative system was in complete collapse.“
 
 Several faculty members attributed Prasad's success to his “liberal and progressive views“.
 
 “He is instinctively liberal.He has authoritarian trait though, but he is basically large hearted. Whenever you go to him with a good idea he is supportive and smart enough to see what is good for the college,“ says Mookerjee.
 
 The big change in the college came when girl students were given priority and Prasad took the risk of setting up the first co-ed hostel of the university in 2005. When in 2012 the university was hit by a series of admission scams, Ramjas became the first college to engage forensic experts for verification of certificates. By 2016, with a Rs 30 crore infrastructure push, the college not only doubled its facilities, but also built one of the swankiest campuses in the university .
 
 “There are many students who come from the north-eastern states. They feel at ease here because of the liberal environment,“ says Pallavi Dutta, an alumni who hails from Assam.
 
 Prasad would will also be remembered as one who took on the university administration but without direct confrontation. He was one of the few principals who was vocal against the four-year-undergraduate programme. “There are pressures from all quarters, particularly from the university administration. But it didn't matter to me. If I was convinced about something, nothing else mattered,“ he says.
 
 “Especially during the Dinesh Singh (former VC) regime, Prasad stood his own,“ Mookerjee adds.
 
 Former associate professor Davinder Mohini Ahuja, who taught at Ramjas for 42 years, says Prasad grew into a mature administrator over the years. “The college has grown in stature. The mass of infrastructure he has created began with modest spaces. He computerised the campus long before the university thought of that and created a happy environment,“ says Ahuja.
 
