Dr G Arjuna, medical superintendent of the King   (KGH), the biggest tertiary hospital of north coastal Andhra, is a 1976 batch alumnus of   (AMC). He completed his post graduation in general surgery from Rangaraya Medical College, Kakinada. He won awards for public service. He speaks to Sulogna Mehta of TOI about the progress of various KGH projects, problems and plans ahead.

 
 
 
 The work is on. The Rs 80 crore CSR block was supposed to be completed within five years but in a recent meeting with the public sector units funding the project, it has been decided to wrap up works of the ground-plus-five-floor building within two years and a half. One year has already passed and Rs 7 crore was spent in the first phase. We have also sent the milestones for payment to the CSR companies and currently preparing the utilisation certificates (UCs) for them to show all the works that have been completed so far. In the first year, we received Rs 10 crore instead of Rs 16 crore. Initially, Rs 16 crore was slotted for every year i.e Rs 80 crore in five years. There would be another meeting in March. Since this block would house the oncology and radiology units on the ground floor, we have also got the required permission for radiotherapy and nuclear medicine from AERB ( ). We have also got the administrative sanctions from the Director of   (DME) and carrying out works as per the norms of AERB.
 
 
 
 The progress is very slow and not satisfactory. So far, only 25% work has been completed and I don't think it's possible to complete it before monsoon. The project costs Rs 5 crore. Of this, Rs 1 crore is funded by GVMC while the remaining Rs 4 crore is from the collector’s special fund. The work was to be over by four months but already two months have passed and not much progress has taken place. Rather, our medicos and hospital staff are sustaining injuries because of the uneven and dug up paths on the hospital premises. Vehicles are getting stuck. The dug up areas need to be covered and levelled immediately by the GVMC staff without any delay. The state health secretary, during her visit, had also asked for prompt completion of the work and if not completed before monsoon, the situation would get worse.
 
 
 
 
 The problem of nursing staff shortage has been partially solved. On a contract basis, 160 staff nurses have been recruited. We still require 500 staff nurses for superspecialty and other departments of KGH. Among Class IV staff, we also require 50 male nursing orderly (MNO) and 25 female nursing orderly (FNO). We have asked the government and hopefully, they would be posted.
 
 
 
 
 True. Especially, for the department of cardiology, we need one professor and one associate professor. Since the professor and head of the department retired in December 2016, we are left with only two assistant professors besides the post graduation medicos. In the last one week, around 80 promotions of doctors from assistant to associate professor level and associate professor to professor level took place. But still, there’s a bottleneck created in the middle level due to less number of associate professor posts compared to the number of posts for assistant professors and professors. Therefore, the government needs to increase the posts of associate professors.
 
 
 
 
 We have constructed a new casualty ward at a cost of Rs 4.3 crore. It can accommodate 40 trauma beds besides 10 emergency intensive care units. But we can’t use it due to lack of a lift facility. We need to get a lift installed. We are trying to get it sanctioned by March or procure through donation.
 
 
 
 
 Besides the beautification works, we are trying to put front elevation sign boards near the two main gates indicating KGH and AMC. Besides, we are trying to get a surgical gastroenterology unit so that liver and pancreas transplants can be done free of cost. We already have a good surgical unit in place and a surgical gastroenterology unit would be an added benefit for patients. Also, in future, I would like to develop a destitute ward for the abandoned people and an exclusive prisoners' ward.
 
 
 
 
 It’s difficult to assess now. Maybe after about six months, when the monsoon start, the picture would be clear from the number of outpatients and inpatients. We will know whether there has been some shift of patients to VIMS.
 
