Jagraon: An Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) candidate from Jagraon assembly constituency suffered serious injuries whereas a tractor driver died in a collision between an SUV and two tractors at Bodalwaala village on Jagraon Sidhwan Bet Road on Saturday.

 The deceased was identified as Gurwinder Singh of Bodalwaala.
 
 Besides AAP candidate Sarvjit Kaur Manuke, SUV driver Gurdeep Singh of Kothe Premsar, AAP workers from Jagraon Harpreet Singh, Manjeet Singh and Sarabjeet Singh and another tractor driver Rashpal Singh of Sherpur Kalan also suffered injuries and were admitted in private hospitals in Jagraon and Moga.
 
 Harpreet Singh, an eyewitness, who was accompanying AAP candidate, told police that Sarvjit Kaur along with her supporters were going in a Mahindra Scorpio towards Sidhwan Bet for campaigning in villages. Harpreet, Manjeet and Sarabjeet were sitting on the rear seat whereas the AAP leader was on the front seat.
 
 He added that when they reached near Bodalwala village, a tractor coming from the village, driven by Gurwinder Singh, and the other one driven by Rashpal Singh, carrying paddy straw, from opposite direction collided near the village.
 
 The eyewitness said Gurwinder died on the spot while his tractor entered neighbouring fields. Other tractor driver had a miraculous escape after his tractor rolled over. Taken by surprise, the SUV driver who was following the tractor rammed it from the rear side, leaving Manuke and others injured.
 
 Police officials said Sarvjit Kaur suffered head injuries. She was rushed to a hospital in Moga along with her driver Gurdeep Singh. They added that three other persons in her vehicle also suffered minor injuries and were shifted to a private hospital in Jagraon.
 
 Senior superintendent of police (Ludhiana Rural) Upinderjeet Singth said nobody has lodged a complaint, which is why inquest proceedings under Section 174 of CrPC has been initiated into the matter.
 
 The SSP said the injured AAP candidate, her driver are out of danger.
 
 AAP’s media coordinator for Ludhiana district Darshan Singh Shankar said Sarvjeet Kaur Manuke was unconscious after the accident and was admitted to a hospital in Moga. He added that she is out of danger and is undergoing treatment.
 
 
