AHMEDABAD: In what Indian officials described as another significant achievement in pushing  , India got Japan to name Pak-based terror groups — LeT and JeM — in the joint statement issued after the Mod-Abe summit. This follows the recent   which for the first time named the same groups while expressing concern over terrorism.

 The summit here also, as expected, saw Modi and Abe discussing the situation in North Korea with the two leaders, in an oblique reference to China and Pakistan, stressing the importance of holding accountable all parties that have supported  . North Korea, which recently tested a hydrogen bomb, was on Thursday reported to have threatened that it was going to “sink’’ the four islands of the Japanese archipelago.
 
 Addressing the issue of terrorism, the India-Japan joint statement said Modi and Abe looked forward to the convening of the fifth India-Japan Consultation on Terrorism and to strengthening cooperation against terrorist threats from groups including ``al-Qaida, ISIS, Jaish-e-Mohammad, Lakshar-e-Taiba and their affiliates’’. The 2016 joint statement had not named these groups even though it had called for Pakistan to bring the perpetrators of terrorist attacks, including those of November 2008 in Mumbai and 2016 in Pathankot, to justice.
 
 And while the 2016 statement had underlined the need for all countries to effectively deal with “trans-national terrorism’’ emanating from their territory, it was a lot more direct this year as it called upon all countries to work towards rooting out terrorist safe havens and infrastructure, disrupting terrorist networks and financing channels and halting ``cross-border movement of terrorists’’. “They underlined the need for all countries to ensure that their territory is not used to launch terrorist attacks on other countries,’’ it said. Foreign secretary S Jaishankar said the message to Pakistan was quite clear after the back to back Xiamen Declaration and India-Japan joint statement. BRICS naming of LeT and JeM was seen as a significant achievement as China had last year blocked India’s move to include their names in the Goa BRICS Declaration.
 
 Modi and Abe also condemned ``in the strongest terms’’ North Korea’s continued development of its nuclear weapons and ballistic missile programs, including its latest nuclear test as well as its uranium enrichment activities.
 
 “Recognising that North Korea’s continued pursuit of nuclear and ballistic missile programmes and its proliferation links, including the launch of a ballistic missile flying over Japanese territory on 29 August 2017, pose grave and real threat to international peace and stability and the international non-proliferation efforts, the two Prime Ministers strongly urged North Korea to abandon its nuclear and ballistic missile programmes and not to take any further provocative actions, and to fully comply with its international obligations under relevant UNSC resolutions including the newly and unanimously adopted resolution 2375, and other international commitments,’’ said the joint statement.
 
 The two leaders also called on the international community to rigorously and fully implement relevant   on North Korea.
 
