NAGPUR: Don’t be surprised if from the   you find students in schools selling vegetables or garments or spices. This proposed initiative by Nagpur district’s education office (primary) is not about introducing   but rather an innovative way to   to students at   schools in district.

 Of course, there won’t be any real onions and potatoes being sold on campus, but plastic replicas that would help students to play roles of buyer/seller and put their maths skills to work while exchanging plastic/toy currency.
 
 Dipendra Lokhande, district’s education officer, said, “Research has shown students learn better when taught in a play-way method. Already some schools are implementing such innovative techniques on using teaching aids. In fact, last year we had a special camp where teachers came up with a lot of good ideas that could be, and are being, implemented in classrooms.”
 
 The focus on maths is because the state government wants students to perform better in it, along with language. The aim is to have Maharashtra school students come in the top three across the country in the rankings for these two subjects.
 
 Lokhande said, “Such innovative methods need to be replicated on a large scale for benefits to accrue. We will be encouraging schools to use such methods more and more for the benefit of kids. We have schools like one in Pandegaon village, which TOI covered last year, where kids are turning into maths wizards and solving complex addition and subtraction problems with ease.”
 
 The push for mathematics is also part of a campaign by education department called ‘Pragat Shaikshanik Maharashtra’ (Progressive Education in Maharashtra) that aims to improve academic performance in specified subjects along with many other factors that rate a school’s infrastructure and other practices.
 
 The state has also signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with IIT-Bombay to select master trainers for maths. 
 
 Purushottam Panchbhai, president of Nagpur District Maths Teachers Association said, “The selection is a very intensive process and started two years ago with written tests and a seminar. As of today, there are 238 teachers selected across the state who have been asked to prepare a 30-minute teaching video and send to IIT-Bombay. In 2018, they will finalize the master trainers.” Panchbhai is one of two teachers selected from Nagpur.
 
