Surat:  ,   

 Since the past couple of years, constant communication with foreign airlines such as FlyDubai, AirArabia ,Qatar, Silk Air,Thai Airways, AirAsia etc has borne wings to the possibility of limited international air connectivity to and from Surat. 
 
 Chairman, aviation committee of South Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) Rajnikant Marfatia said, “While we are in constant touch with several international airlines which are eager to begin operations from Surat, we are awaiting Union minister of civil aviation Jayant Sinha to keep his word regarding international connectivity with Indian carriers such as Air India Express and SpiceJet since international carriers have exhausted their bilateral seat entitlements. The Government of India needs to review potential and increase seats for foreign airlines eager to start flights to Surat.”
 
 Regional manager (India, Nepal and Sri Lanka) Pran Dasan for Flydubai said, “Surat has always been a key market for FlyDubai and we have time and again at various forums expressed our desire to add Surat to our international network. However, permission for the same is subject to traffic rights. If those are resolved with the Government of India, we would be happy to begin operations to Surat with at least one daily service between Dubai and Surat.” 
 
 International airlines are looking at two point clearance for Surat airport — one being notified as an international airport by ministry of civil aviation, secondly Surat has to be added as a point of call in the bilateral agreement between Dubai and India. On her visit to SGCCI in July 2016, K Hemlatha, the then regional executive director, western region, Airports Authority of India (AAI), was surprised when she saw the substantial figures in data of air travellers from Surat. 
 
 “Convinced by Surat’s immense potential, K Hemlatha had taken the decisive step to recommend Surat to be declared as a custom notified airport with an immigration check post. The details of the data which made her take that decision did not include online bookings and has yet attracted several new players,” co-chairman at SGCCI’s aviation committee Manoj Singapuri said. 
 
 
