"Am I, or is she a traitor,“ asked care taker chief minister O   on Thursday, threatening to reveal more inconvenient details about   general secretary V K   (he has stopped calling her Chinnamma) and her family, if provoked further. 

 Responding to Sasikala's charges that he was a traitor for deserting the camp, Panneerselvam sought to remind Sasikala that she and her family members were expelled from the AIADMK by Jayalalithaa for alleged anti-party activities. She was also sent out of Jayalalithaa's residence. Panneerselvam read out a letter of apology written by Sasikala to Jayalalithaa in 2012 to regain entry into the   residence.
 
 In the letter, Sasikala had admitted that some people in her family were responsible for creating a rift between her and Jayalalithaa. Sasikala claimed she had no knowledge of her family members conspiring against Jayalalithaa and said their betrayal was unpardonable, said Panneerselvam.
 
 Quoting from the letter, he said Sasikala had claimed that she had dedicated her life for Jayalalithaa. She said, “I want to live my life as a true thangai (younger sister) of akka (elder sister)“. She claimed that she would not aspire to become even a ward councillor and would not pursue any political ambition.
 
 “But now, the family is back and she wants to be chief minister. Who is the traitor? Soon after readmitting Sasikala, Amma (Jayalalithaa) called senior ministers and MPs and instructed us not to have any truck with Sasikala as she was supposed to be only an aide for her,“ said Panneerselvam.
 
 Party workers as well as people were against Sasikala and her family members. “People support us and they will teach Sasikala a lesson. Two days after I became CM she, through ministers, told me that she wanted to be the chief minister and I should vacate the seat,“ said Panneerselvam. “Is this not drama? Did I ask for the post?
 
 I am ready to reply to all her charges against me. But I will also reveal more details about her as well as her family members,“ said Panneerselvam.
 
