PUNE: Who says that most of the   are one-ways? Visit these roads any time of the day and vehicles can be seen moving in both directions, the locals said.

 “One can find people driving on the wrong side of roads here all the time. This happens even when signboards notifying one-way have been put here prominently. The problem aggravates during the night hours with vehicles moving in all directions,”   told TOI.
 
 It has just eight months that the   was implemented on most roads in the  , but little precious has changed. The frequent drives by the traffic police have also failed to yield any results with people continuing to drive as per their whims and fancies, putting not just their lives but also of others at risk.
 
 Pokharkar said motorists do not seem to care about traffic rules, even when pointed out by others. “I have often told people driving on the wrong side of the roads here that they were violating the traffic rules. But they simply did not care and proceeded anyway,” he said.
 
 During the rush hours, traffic hotspots like Dattamandir chowk or the Ramwadi underpass are mostly unmanned. Even when traffic personnel are deployed at these locations, they are so few in number that the traffic rule offenders just turn a blind eye to them and bypass them considering the huge traffic flow here.
 
 “This is the case here all the time. Absence of traffic police encourages rule violators even at spots like the Ramwadi underpass, which is one-way towards the New Airport Road. Not just bikers, even autorickshaw drivers throw caution to the wind and drive their vehicles in the wrong direction of the road,” Ashok Patra, a local businessman, said.
 
 Motorists have often complained that the “unscientific” traffic design in the area “forces them” to take shortcuts through wrong-side driving.
 
 “I drove on the wrong side because my home is just a few metres away on the same street. Do you expect me to travel all the way around just to get here?” snapped back one of the bikers riding on the wrong side, when questioned.
 
 Local traffic police sources conceded that the problem is based on enforcement. “Citizens need to be disciplined into following traffic rules. Tough enforcement is required to that effect. We often try to book drivers travelling on the wrong side. But we often do not have enough staff on the ground to ensure strict implementation of the one-way rule,” a senior traffic official of the Pune police said.
 
