KOLKATA: A snarl at the College Street-Mahatma Gandhi Road intersection isn't uncommon during the day. But imagine one at 15 minutes to midnight.That was the scene at night as two trucks travelling from the   jumped the red light and attempted to turn right into  , obstructing trucks that had the green signal to travel in either direction along  . Just when the gridlock appeared complete, a police van travelling along Bidhan Sarani also jumped the lights, clogging the way further.

 It wasn't just at the College Street crossing that one encountered a problem due to traffic light violation at night. Vehicles, particularly trucks, jumped the red light at several key intersections even as traffic signals began functioning round-the-clock, a move started to curb accidents. Till Wednesday last week, signal lights worked only during traffic hours from 7am to 10pm.
 
 While many drivers, who jumped the signal, claimed they were unaware of the change in rules and would take a while getting used to following signals at night when traffic was sparse, two more reasons appeared to contribute to the violation. First, is the absence of policemen at intersections. With no fear of being hauled up and prosecuted for traffic violation, there was no deterrent to stop drivers from breaking the law.
 
 In fact, vehicles stopped at the signal at the Park Circus intersection even past midnight, a picture in contrast to most of the other places the correspondent checked, as cops were posted at the seven-point crossing. A police van being parked in the middle of the road also acted as a deterrent. “This is a very important interaction and so, we are on duty there all night. Perhaps, that is the reason traffic violation and accidents are fewer here,“ a traffic constable on duty said.
 
 The police plan to carry out surprise checks at other signals after midnight but the crackdown might not work till motorists realise, at least for an initial period, that they are under surveillance and face prosecution if they flout signals.
 
 The second reason for blatantly jumping red lights is the unscientific calibration of the signal timing. Unlike during the day and evening, when the huge volume of vehicles demand longer waiting time, the signals should ideally be calibrated for a shorter wait later at night, when the traffic flow thins down. But as the signals have not been rejigged based on the time of the day , motorists apparently did not find any justification for waiting 40-90 seconds at the red lights when the road was empty . An 18-20-second wait could have changed the scene. Even traffic cops apparently agreed. “If one is needlessly forced to wait for a long time at a signal on an empty road at night, motorists are will flout the signal after a while. And the moment one of them drives off, the others will follow suit. It is important to synchronize the signal timings with the part of the day ,“ atraffic policeman said.
 
 Even at less-frequented signals, such as the Camac StreetShakespeare Sarani intersection, where fewer than five cars passed in a minute and the wait time was less than 25 seconds, drivers didn't stop for the signal to turn green.
 
 Arijit Sen, who was trying to jump the red light at Camac Street-AJC Bose Road crossing, argued he was in a rush to reach home as it was already 12.30am. “I usually don't flout rules but what's the harm if I take a little liberty to reach home early at that hour?“ he argued. What Sen did not quite consider was most of the road accidents recorded in the city , including fatal ones, took place between midnight and dawn, when speeding trucks rammed into vehicles at the crossings.
 
 Senior police officers hope motorists would get used to adhering to signals, sooner rather than later. “It has just been introduced. It will take a some time for the people to realise they can't drive past signals after 10pm anymore,“ he said.
 
