NAGPUR: North Nagpur was once a big centre of   movement, says retired   artiste Naresh Sakhre. People from the area won awards all over Maharashtra and up to 1985   Bhavan in Indora hosted drama competitions. 

 Sakhre adds that one particular section of the society dominated the competitions and won prizes. In later years, north Nagpur formed its own set of quality teams and ended the dominance of that particular group. “However, this is a story of the past and today’s generation is not aware of it,” he says. 
 
 Sakhre and his group of about 25 veteran theatre artistes are now trying to revive the drama movement afresh in north Nagpur, and a two-day drama festival has been organized at Lalit Kala Bhavan, Indora. Kamgar Kalyan Kendra’s award winning drama ‘Shubh Mangal Savdhan’ was held on Saturday. ‘Cursed King’ and ‘Tower’ will be performed at the premises at 6.30pm on Saturday.
 
 “Kamgar Kalyan Kendra theatre competitions were shifted to the newly built hall at Kamgar Kalyan Bhavan in Chandan Nagar, and then to Raghuji Nagar after 1985. From 2006 to 2017, no theatre competitions have taken place at Lalit Kala Bhavan, run by Kamgar Kalyan Kendra. People said that the kind of audience expected was not there. Politics too played its part,” said Sakhre.
 
 He says that their motto was to create interest in people of north Nagpur about drama; create an audience and actors. “People felt that north Nagpur is a slum area with illiterate people, and connoisseurs are not there. We want to change this notion, bring back the creativity and spread the movement.
 
 “Most of the theatre artistes staged their plays here for competitions at Lalit Kala Bhavan about 37 years ago. Then, this was only a ground with a stage. These people later took jobs and went to Bombay. Kamgar Kalyan Kendra’s drama competitions also shifted to Raghuji Nagar once a hall was built there. Since they have come back to revive it, we are supportive of the idea,” said Sanjay Joseph, welfare officer, Lalit Kala Bhavan, Indora.
 
 NEW BEGINNING 
 
 Naresh Sakhre says that a registry of those who are interested in being a part of theatre — be it acting, writing, direction, managing the lights and so on — will be maintained. “We will engage them in theatre through free classes at the Lalit Kala Bhavan premises starting from Monday. We want to create North Nagpur’s own audience and artistes,” he said.
 
 
