BHUBANESWAR: Two days after Artha Tatwa (AT) Group chit fund company's CMD Pradeep Sethy pointed fingers at two ministers for their alleged roles in the scam, police on Thursday suspended two constables on charges of allowing him to give the startling remark to the media outside the court here.

 The constables, Lijat Panigrahi and  , were suspended for alleged dereliction of duty. During inquiry, we found the duo stood like mute spectators while Sethy went ahead speaking to the media on January 30. Since Sethy was being produced in court in their custody, it was their lookout to stop him from speaking to the media, DCP Satyabrata Bhoi told TOI.
 
 On January 30, Sethy said two ministers took financial benefits from him to support his business, leaving the ruling BJD in a spot. However, Sethy did not name any minister. While the suspended constables refused to comment, their colleagues questioned the departmental action against them. This was not the first time Pradeep Sethy spoke to media outside the court. Like him, several accused persons have been reacting to media outside the court. "We never saw such action against any police personnel," said a constable requesting anonymity.
 
 "Our colleagues were made scapegoats as Pradeep Sethy's statement to the media landed the ruling BJD in trouble. The commissionerate police must have suspended our colleagues at the behest of the ruling party," another constable said. 
 
 BJD has been in trouble ever since CBI started its probe into the mega chit fund scam in which 44 companies are involved. The ruling party suffered setback following arrest of Banki MLA   and Mayurbhanj MP Ramachandra Hansdah in separate chit fund scams in 2014. But the CBI probe mysteriously slowed down following the interrogation of Saroj Sahoo, perceived as a close aide of chief minister  , in November 2014. 
 
 To expedite its probe, the CBI on January 12 raided houses of MP  , MLA Pravat Biswal and Saroj Sahoo for their alleged involvements in Seashore Group Ponzi scam. 
 
 A constable identified as Shankar Behera was suspended on September 7, 2016 for allegedly passing on his cellphone to Sethy to speak to his relatives and media. On April 8 too, four policemen were suspended for allowing Sethy to speak on somebody's mobile phone in court. 
 
