HYDERABAD:   has become a hub for agents, who are practically going house to house to lure women into surrogacy. What is also astonishing is that despite some women refusing, they are being pestered repeatedly. In order to convince the women to give their  , they are being made to speak to women who are already into surrogacy.

 A woman who has four children has been approached by an agent with an offer to pay her Rs 3.10 lakh if she agrees for surrogacy. The agent has also offered to take care of her family's needs by paying them Rs 5,000 to Rs 10,000 per month. The woman refused the offer but her phones hasn't stopped ringing.
 
 “My wife and I felt it would be dangerous to get into it.Moreover, we have seen how the agents operate and do not take responsibility when anything goes wrong,“ a worker at IDA   said.
 
 The woman was first induced into   for which she was promised Rs 18,000. The agent took her to a  .The hospital collected the egg and asked her to come regularly for 10 days. After the fourth day, they asked her not to come and also refused to pay. The agent switched off his phone, lest the woman pester him for payment.
 
 In the IDA Bolarum area localities, many agents are on the prowl. They first ask women to agree for egg donation. For the factory workers who earn just around Rs10,000 to Rs15,000 a month, the financial condition is not so good for the family. Their wives are approached with the offer that their financial condition will be better if they agree for egg donation.
 
 According to one woman who was approached, when she refused, she was given another offer: to become an agent herself. Her job was to identify people who are in dire need of money and first induce them for egg donation.Subsequently , they would be asked to take up surrogacy .
 
 As factory workers at IDA Bolarum are away at work during the day, the sub-agents who are mostly women go around the localities trying to identify women who are desparately in need of money .
 
 Sources said the agents, however, refuse to take `no' for an answer. They are said to be visiting the women repeatedly and exerting pressure on them to agree.
 
