Fireworks have begun between   and   as the two online retailers square off during the most crucial sale period of the year. Both the e-tail biggies accused each other of selling products that are exclusive to their sites as they opened their festive sale to consumers on Wednesday .

 While Amazon said Flipkart was selling the television brand TCL on its platform despite not having the rights to do so, Flipkart retaliated by accusing Amazon of selling Vu TVs, which has been exclusive to the homegrown e-tailer for a few years now.
 
   , country manager, TCL, said in a statement that Amazon.in is the only authorized online channel partner for TCL in India. “No manufacturer warranty and installation will be applicable on purchase of a TCL TV from any other online channel," Chen said in a statement. 
 
 An Amazon spokesperson said in an emailed statement, “We remain TCL’s exclusive online partner offering 100% genuine products, installation services and warranty.” Amazon did not comment specifically on selling Vu TVs. Similarly Flipkart's head of large appliances,   said, "For a long time, some online platforms have listed our successful brand exclusives and have miserably failed in selling them. For millions of households across India, Flipkart is the only trusted choice when it comes to buying a TV." Karwa too did not comment specifically on selling TCL products on its platform. 
  
 Earlier last year, both these companies had quibbled publicly when Flipkart had listed smartphones from One Plus on its site while Amazon was selling Vu TVs.
 
 Devita Saraf, founder and CEO of Vu TVs said the company's TVs are sold exclusively on Flipkart. " We have not authorised the sale of Vu TVs on any other online platform. Our customers should know that any Vu products sold on online platforms other than Flipkart may not be of genuine quality, and are not covered under the company's warranty."
 
 Meanwhile, Manish Tiwary , VP, Amazon India told TOI the company has witnessed strong response from its Prime users who had a 12 hour early access to the annual sale this year. "Prime subscription continues to be the highest selling product and we have seen a times jump in that compared to a usual business day. The work we have been doing for large appliances has shown good results as the segments saw 52 times higher sales from Prime users," he said. 
 
