Mumbai: Over the past four years since the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) started conducting online admissions for   reserved under the Right to Education Act, 2009 quota, applications have increased almost fourfold but the number of admissions has shown slower growth.

 In 2014-2015, when the BMC first conducted online admissions for the 25% seats reserved at unaided non-minority schools for economically disadvantaged sections, they received just 1,930 applications. Out of these, 1,069 translated into confirmed admissions. This year, BMC received 9,426 applications, but only 2,798 were able to confirm seats in the schools.
 
 According to BMC officials while the number of applications increased drastically due to better awareness and plenty advertisements, the number of admissions did not increase at the same pace because there was a demand-supply mismatch. “Over the years, people have come to know about it and want to admit their students in private schools. We have advertised in 10 different newspapers (both English and vernacular) to create awareness among parents so that more students can take advantage of the quota. However, some schools receive higher applications than they can take in while others find no takers at all,” said an official. This year, there were 764 seats across 39 schools which received no applications.
 
 However, since the state does not allow schools to fill up the vacant seats except in class I, a low rate of admissions means that a high number of seats remain vacant in a school until that batch of students reaches class VIII. For instance, this year 4,561 seats out of 7,449 are vacant. “The situation becomes far more dismal when you consider the fact that thousands of seats have been kept out of the process of filling up from 2014 after the online process started. The BMC should come up with a more innovative solution to match the vacancies with the students who haven’t been allotted a seat. Instead, this year admissions were stopped after the fifth round just to abide by the state’s April 30 deadline,” said Sudhir Paranjape of Anudanit Shiksha Bachao Samiti, a NGO that works with parents during the   process. 
 
 Schools too are unhappy with this. “We cannot fill up the seats nor are we eligible for reimbursement because the seat is vacant. Either way, it is our loss. The department should instead allow us to fill up the seats so that students can benefit from it,” said the trustee of a group of schools.
 
 
