GURUGRAM: To reduce pendency of cases, the   of Gurgaon will expedite trials of particularly those that have been pending for over five years. District and sessions judge Harnam Singh Thakur told TOI on Tuesday the court will try to dispose of most of the old   by March 31. Nearly 65,000 cases are currently pending in the Gurgaon courts, of which 3,000 are for over five years.

 “Our priority is disposal of old cases. Trials of such cases will be held on regular basis, if possible on every alternate day. We intend to dispose of as many pending cases as possible by March-end. In April, we will review the status of pending cases and take necessary action to reduce pendency,” Thakur said. “I have already held a meeting with all judicial officers in the district in this regard,” he added.
 
 The initiative to dispose of the old cases has been taken up in the wake of the Punjab and Haryana high court seeking details about the status of pending cases in lower courts. The HC has also directed all lower courts to reduce the pendency of old cases. Most of the pending cases in the district court of Gurgaon are related to cheque bounce and land acquisition. “The volume of filing of cheque bounce cases is quite high, so the pendency. Gurgaon has four courts dedicated to cheque bounces cases and all these courts are overburdened with cases,” said Rajiv Kaushik, a member of the District Bar Association.
 
 Litigations related to land acquisition have also clogged courts. “With rapid urbanisation, large-scale land acquisition was done by different government agencies in the past two decades, which led to filing of many cases,” said Sudesh Yadav, president of the Bar Association. “Cases related to land acquisitions are complex in nature and require lot of documentation, besides many parties are involved in such cases, leading to delay,” he added.
 
 Thakur said the district court has been trying to dispose of cases related to serious crime, particularly rape, as early as possible. “We try to dispose cases of certain nature against women and children as early as possible. Because prolong trial in such cases can have negative psychological impact on survivors,” he added.
 
 
