SHIMLA: When police officials installed   in Shimla's  , it was supposed to be a law and order measure keeping an eye on trouble-makers at the hill town's most popular tourist attraction.But the cameras are being used to spy on suspicious husbands and wives who want to know if their spouse is roaming in the picturesque Shivalik hills in the company of another person.

 The cops have already given footage to one man, raising issues of privacy and whether they can share such information.
 
 At least five people have approached the Shimla police with   (RTI) applications to provide  . Although their applications don't give the reason explicitly cops say it is clear applicants are checking on their spouse's fidelity.
 
 Shimla SP D W Negi said, “Many applications get rejected but those drafted carefully are considered. We have already provided footage to one man and we are working on the rest. We are ready to provide all short or long clips of people in Shimla if the query is made within six months of the date of the recording.“
 
 In Shimla, police have installed around 45 CCTV cameras of which six are on Ridge and Mall Road. Sources that these are high definition cameras recording round the clock. RTI expert Dev Ashish Bhat tacharya says that if a spouse wants to know the activities of the partner which might have been recorded in a CCTV in a public area, he or she can file an RTI application by simply asking for the CCTV footage of a particular day , area and time, without mentioning their personal interest. He adds that applicants can also mention that they do not want to disclose why they are seeking the footage. In such cases cops are likely to give them the footage.
 
 Himachal Pradesh's former chief information commissioner Bhim Sen says, “In the past I had received applications to know who was visiting the jail at what time. Another applicant wanted to know if the management of at temple was allowing VIPs jump the queue for darshan. These applications might were filed for personal reasons but we gave them the information as they had applied them showing public interest.“
 
