KOLKATA:  ,   and  , suggests   and advocacy group   that successfully argued for ban on big diesel SUVs in NCR regions last year and prompted the Arvind Kejriwal government to experiment with the   to bring down emission pollution in Delhi.

 Arguing that cars have 10.6 times more carbon footprint than buses, scientists at CSE feel car owners should pay the full cost of using road space and causing environmental damages to prevent Kolkata become as smoggy as Delhi.
 
 “Globally , cities are desperate to free up road space from cars. They are making car parking prohibitive; adding high premium to car own ership; exacting dues for entering prime busy areas; allowing a fraction of them on roads at a time. Simultaneously, they are offering people more transport options other than cars,“ says CSE executive director (research & advocacy) Anumita Roychowdhu ry.
 
 Cities like London, Stockholm, Singapore, Milan l and Gothenburg levy a stiff congestion charge on cars that ply in the central areas during week days to encour age use of public transport and lower emission pollution.In Kolkata, a proposal was mooted over a decade ago to ban cars in Dalhousie Square and roads around New Market but it was never implemented.
 
 “Cars are the biggest encroachers in Kolkata. Around 30%-40% of roads in Kolkata are taken up by parking; 50%70% of footpaths have been reduced to facilitate on-street parking. The Rs 10hour park ing charge is a pittance. This acts like a hidden subsidy . den subsidy .Enforce parking controls and bring in congestion charge,“ she argued.
 
 A study by scientists from the University of California, Berkeley , found people's exposure to vehicle exhaust in Kolkata is 3-4 times higher than the world average and highest among Indian metros.
 
 Kolkata has to reduce its annual average pollution level by 44% to be able to meet the clean air standards against 30% by Ahmedabad, 33% by Mumbai and 36% by Hyderabad. Delhi has the toughest ask of reducing by 72%, followed by Bengaluru by 54%, but Roychowdhury warns that if Kolkata does not act, it will soon be in league with these two cities. The scientist says public transport that has always been Kolkata's strength is facing a challenge with disproportionate focus on car-centric roads and flyovers that is neglecting buses, trams, walking and bicycles.
 
