Experts have for long known one's psychological state can trigger lifestyle problems like  , but researchers have now found such ailments can also result in high  .

 It is also felt that treatment involving formal assessment of stress levels in the clinic along with integrated counselling and psychological care for patients with chronic illnesses can help.
 
 A study by a   team covering 400 people with type 2 diabetes found that one-third had high to very high stress levels. Age, physical activity and nature of work play a role in aggravating chronic conditions like diabetes and hypertension; they also push up stress levels in those already suffering from the ailment.
 
 A professional between 30 and 40 years of age who suffers from diabetes and leads a sedentary life is more likely to be stressed than others. Dr V Mohan, a co-author of the study recently published in the  , said modifications in lifestyle, including dietary patterns and fear of long-term complications, could up anxiety in people with diabetes. Around 25% of Chennai's diabetics are below 40 years. During the survey , people seeking consultations at a city-based hospital were asked questions like “In the last one month how often have you felt unable to control important things in your life?' and `How often have you felt confident about your ability to handle personal problems?' “They all felt more confident and positive before they were diagnosed. They seemed more irritable, anxious and unpredictable now,“ said Dr Sendhilkumar Muthappan, the lead author. “When we probed further, we found that many of them were worried not just of the long-term complications of the disease, but it ate into their confidence too,“ he added. While blood glucose levels usually soar in people with type 2 diabetes who are stressed, Dr Mohan said stress levels could also go up because of the condition. “We found a sizeable number of people were professionals. All of them were conscious that they had to stick to a strict diet and a physical regimen but their work often kept them from it. This triggers anxiety ,“ said Dr Mohan. Stress, he said, would also impact treatment because of deterioration in glycemic control through its effect on the neuroendocrine system.
 
 The findings could have a link to National Crime Records Bureau figures: According to the 2014 data, 4,514 people took their lives due to illnesses in Tamil Nadu, forming 28% of all suicides in the state. Of the 23,746 suicides due to illnesses in the country in 2014, 15,419 were due to prolonged ailments.
 
 Dr R Tara of Schizophrenia Research Foundation (Scarf) is seeing this trend with the uptick in the number of patients referred to her by physicians.“While the mind having a significant impact on the physical well-being is well documented, it is good that doctors are also recognizing that their health is also testing patients' mental strength,“ she said.
 
 The survey also advocated more physical activity as it reduces stress levels.
 
 
