SONIPAT: The special investigation team (SIT), probing Nirbhaya like gang rape and murder of a young Dalit woman from   which has rocked the state, have recovered the Santro car used in the crime. The police have already arrested 24-year-old Sumit and 28-year-old Vikas on the charges of rape, murder and abduction. However, parents of the 21-year-old victim have alleged that sons of a retired DSP living in Rohtak, who happens to be paternal uncle of Sumit, were also involved in the brutality.

 The woman’s father said that Sumit’s uncle is former DSP of   police and lived in Rohtak. The accused had had often threatened the family using his name and after kidnapping they had taken their daughter to his residence in Rohtak, he added.
 
 The decomposed and mutilated body of the woman, who went missing from Sonipat on Tuesday and was gang-raped and brutally murdered, was found near the Industrial Model Township in Urban Estate, Rohtak, on Thursday. Stray dogs had bitten off the face and lower portion of her body.
 
 On Sunday, Sonipat police slapped charges under the SC/ST Act in the case against Vikas. Sumit is a Dalit too.
 
 “Soon after we verified the antecedents of the second accused, we added the sections of the SC/ST Act. We have also recovered the car used by accused. We are planning to take them to Rohtak to recover the bricks and other weapons used to kill the victim,” said Sonipat SP Ashwin Shenvi.
 
 Referring to brutality, Shenvi said that the relevant sections have been added to the case. “At the same time, we are also examining the postmortem report and interrogating the accused,” he added.
 
 About involvement of more persons in the crime, Shenvi said that they had recorded the supplementary statement and were verifying the facts. “Our SIT is verifying these facts as well. Besides the interrogation, we are also taking help of cyber cell to track the movement of the accused before, during and after the incident to make the things more clear,” added the SP.
 
 National woman panel seeks daily report
 
 A day after the incident came under media glare, the National Commission for   head Rekha Sharma and Haryana ADGP law and order Muhhamad Akil visited the family. As family alleged laxity on the part of police, Rekha Sharma gave a dressing down to the cops present while asking them to update her about the case on daily basis. While ADGP Muhhamad Akil interacted with the family for 45 minutes and assured all possible help from police and clear investigations in the case.
 
