India’s corporate history would have taken a different course if a principal of the Coimbatore Institute of Technology in the 1980s had let one of his students have his way.

 Sometime in 1983, N  , now   chairman-designate, approached principal M Gurusamy to discuss his higher studies after completing his BSc in applied science. “He told me that he was seriously considering agriculture,” recalls Gurusamy.
 
 Chandra’s family had vast stretches of agricultural land in Mohanur village, in Tamil Nadu’s Namakkal district, where they grew plantain. Computer application was in its nascent stages but when Gurusamy explained its strengths, it caught the imagination of Chandra. When Chandra’s father, S Natarajan, endorsed the principal’s choice, the student had nothing more to consider. “He took up the subject and did extremely well to qualify for the MCA at Regional Engineering College (REC), Trichy,” says Gurusamy.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Chandra’s was the first MCA batch in REC, now the National Institute of Technology — Trichy (NIT-T). Chandra also considered chartered accountancy, but finally settled for MCA.
 
 Chandra’s father remained his motivation. “We discussed and decided on MCA,” says the 84-year-old, who returned to agriculture after practising law. “It was his sheer hard work and adherence to values that made him what he is today,” says the father, who lives with his daughter in a guesthouse in Erode. Natarajan learned of Chandra’s appointment on the television on Thursday evening and texted him. “He called me immediately. I told him that he has got his due,” says the proud father.
 
 Chandrasekaran’s beginnings were humble. From a tiny tiled-roof house, he would walk a couple of kilometres to the government school. The medium of instruction was Tamil, but Chandra was quick to pick up English at college.
 
 He was hard-working right from his childhood," says G Ajeethan, a cousin. It was this quality that helped him move up the corporate ladder to become TCS chief executive officer and managing director in 2009.
 
 Though he heads such a large company, he is unassuming, says his schoolmate P Narendran, now an LIC agent in Mohanur. He remembers Chandra also as a good leg-spinner. "He was two years older than me, but never dominating. We had so much fun playing cricket together. He was the captain and I the vice-captain of the team," he says.
 
 K S Natarajan, who taught Chandra in Class VII, says he was good at science. "He spent a lot of time clarifying his juniors' doubts," he says. S Annalakshmi, who taught him in Class VI, remembers Chandra as an obedient and respectful student.
 
 
 
 
