THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The   on Tuesday discussed the political report approved by the central committee. 

 The document contains the gist of the report submitted by the politburo commission on Kerala affairs and the action taken by the CC on that report. 
 
 Sources said that a few leaders expressed their displeasure over the quantum of punishment given to veteran leader   despite serious findings in the PB commission report. 
 
 A couple of leaders from Kannur said the punishment should have been harder as the mistakes included boycott of state conference, which is unpardonable as far as a cadre party like CPM is concerned. 
 
 However, both the leaders said they accepted the CC's decision and expressed hope that issues would be settled soon. 
 
 Senior leader Koliyakode Krishnan Nair said he was relieved that the PB commission has reached a logical conclusion on the fourth year of constitution. 
 
 He also felt the punishment given to VS is minor, but said everyone should accept it for the sake of the party. 
 
 Sources said the PB commission report presented in the state committee contained detailed accounts of incidents that led to V S Achuthanandan's boycott of   in Alappuzha. 
 
 While criticising Achuthanandan for the act, the report also provided space to arguments put forth by Achuthanandan. 
 
 The veteran leader had told the PB commission that along with the resolution passed by CPM state secretariat blaming him, the denial of opportunity to deliver the customary speech after hoisting the party flag had led to his boycott. The PB commission had quoted Achuthanandan saying that he had brought these violations to the notice of the then general secretary Prakash Karat, but to no avail. 
 
 The state committee also discussed the protest measures to be taken up by the party in the issues of rationing through PDS, demonetisation and agrarian crisis. 
 
 The LDF will organise evening dharnas in all panchayats, municipalities and corporation centres demanding a judicious public distribution system. 
 
 The protest with a demand to reintroduce statutory rationing system will also seek to reinstate the quota of rice the state was eligible before the food security act came into force. 
 
 Though the CC asked the state committee to probe allegations of nepotism against E P Jayarajan and P K Sreemathy, there were no hints about the state committee assigning a committee for the purpose. 
 
 It is more likely that the state secretary himself will conduct the probe and submit the report to the CC before its next meeting.
 
 
