BHAGALPUR: Contrary to the reports published in a section of media that the   (TMBU) on Thursday registered an   against   and AAP MLA   in the  , the university police outpost on Friday said the complaint was returned as it was signed by a subordinate official, and not by the vice-chancellor. 

 TMBU pro-VC Prof Ramyatan Prasad confirmed on Friday that the FIR was not registered yet. “We are in the process of resending the complaint to the police after the VC puts his signature on it,” he said. 
 
 TMBU VC Prof Nalini Kant Jha said it has never been a practice that an FIR will be lodged only if the complaint is signed by the head of the institution.
 
 University police outpost SHO (in-charge) Chandreshwar Prasad Singh said the FIR was not registered as the complaint did not bear the VC’s signature and ratification. “We will register the case against Tomar as soon as we get the VC’s signed complaint,” he said.
 
 Tomar, who claimed to be an LLB student of Vishwanath Singh Institute of Legal Studies (VNSILS) at Munger during 1994-1998 period, secured the degree in September, 2012. In February 2015, a petition was filed in the Delhi high court challenging Tomar’s degrees on the basis of an RTI inquiry. Avadh University at Faizabad in UP, from where Tomar claimed to have graduated, denied that it had ever awarded a bachelor’s degree to him. That bachelor’s degree was the basis of Tomar’s enrolment for LLB in the VNSILS under the TMBU.
 
 Tomar, however, insisted that he held a valid law degree from TMBU. The TMBU authorities submitted an affidavit before the Delhi high court that the provisional certificate bearing serial number 3687 dated July 29, 1999 was issued to one Sanjay Kumar Choudhary (a student of R S College, Tarapur under TMBU) for his BA (Honours) degree in Political Science examination.
 
 During the course of investigation undertaken by the TMBU, startling revelations surfaced, that Tomar had submitted marksheet/degree and migration certificates of two different universities and also that he had withheld information about his actual place of residence while taking admission in VNSILS. TMBU held that the degree awarded to Tomar was due to forgery committed by the former Delhi law minister and due to misrepresentation. 
 
 Subsequently, TMBU Senate on March 20, 2017 cancelled Tomar’s LLB degree after the chancellor’s nod. On December 3, 2016, the TMBU Syndicate had ratified the examination board decision to cancel Tomar’s LLB degree and sought the chancellor’s approval.
 
 A chargesheet has already been filed in a Saket court in Delhi against Tomar for forging his BSc and LLB degrees.
 
