Quite content about the way her career is shaping up, with her recent works being recognised,  , who is currently looking forward to her next Bollywood outing,  , hopes that the film will be another turning point for her. Having shared screen space with the likes of experienced artistes like  , Akshay Kumar, Anupam Kher, Manoj Bajpayee, etc, in her Bollywood projects, the actress avers she is in a happy phase, but wonders why she is getting comparatively less offers from Kollywood. Though she had a dream debut in Tamil with  , the chirpy lass admits that she expected a better reception in the industry. 

 “I believe I have done justice to my roles in Tamil films in a pretty decent way,” she laughs, adding, “As far as I know, there is no such impression that I’m not good at acting or that I don’t look good, but somehow I was not getting much offers here, contrary to my expectations. And the roles I was approached were mostly that of an NRI girl or an Anglo-Indian, and so on. 
 
 On the other hand, I’m considered as a girl-next-door when it comes to Hindi films. In between, I was supposed to do Selvaraghavan’s, but it got shelved due to unknown reasons. There have been date issues, too, where I was approached for films in the last minute. For one or the other reasons, I was not able to make my presence felt here.”
 
 Taapsee asserts that she isn’t just keen in working only with big heroes, but wants to associate with leading directors as well. She feels it’s equally important to balance her career in that way. Quiz her on who all she has in her mind, pat comes the reply, “First, I want to work with Vetri sir again. I tell him often that many people who worked in Aadukalam won a National Award, but not me. I’m ready to work with him even without asking about the story. I want to work with Selvaraghavan and Gautham Menon, too. And, of course, the guy who directed Maya. We had a talk; I’m looking forward to work with him also. I have dubbed in my own voice in Telugu, I want to do it in Tamil, too. It’s just that I’m waiting for the right project. In fact, I would be happy if I get an action-oriented role like Naam Shabana.”
 
 The film, according to the actress, is not her first female-oriented movie, but the first film in which she plays a titular role. She explains, “Though I play the lead in Naam Shabana,   was a film which touched upon the issues of women. In that way, I have been a part of women-centric films much earlier. In fact, after Pink, people have started taking me seriously. One of the biggest recognition the film gave me was that I didn’t have to attend auditions further.” 
 
 So, how was her bold and fearless character in Baby, an extensive cameo, developed to form a full-fledged movie? She says that it all started with how the girl, a spy, became one — the thoughts behind the circumstances that made her to take up the profession and the things she had to undergo lead to the character development. Taapsee got introduced to three combat sports — Krav Maga, Kudo and Mixed Martial Arts to pull off the role which requires taking on baddies. But she is quick to clarify that the fight sequences in the film involve only punches, kicks and movements, which however, will appear appropriate. “I practised for a year; though I succumbed to minor injuries during the rehearsals,” she smiles, and adds that she is quite scared of hitting people in real life.
 
 The actress confesses that she was initially a little worried about working in a film which boasts of a bevy of artistes like Akshay Kumar, Manoj Bajpai, Anupam Kher, Prithviraj, etc. She says, “I used to be nervous, but the makers would give her suggestions which helped her become comfortable gradually. I trust my directors and go by them. I don’t have the habit of looking at the monitor to analyse my performance. I have never done that in my career.” Having said that, she makes it clear that she wasn’t much worried about carrying the film on her shoulders, as she felt the big names associated with the project would do the talking.
 
 Now that she is part of serious films, choosing meaningful and performance-oriented roles, will she say no to mainstream films, like say Kangana? She explains, “I will continue to do mainstream films. My next outing with Varun Dhawan is a fun film. I never made a conscious decision of doing only serious movies or the ones which would win award. In fact, I feel that you get award only after you become a league of your own. So, I have no plans to follow Kangana, or any actresses for that matter. Perhaps the only similarity, some people say I share with her, is the curly hair.”
 
 On what she thinks is the reason for less number of female-oriented flicks down south, she opines that there should be directors who should start the trend. “In Bollywood, every popular actress makes it a point to do one such film a year. Even the likes of Shraddha Kapoor and Alia Bhatt, who are younger in the field, are also part of such projects. It should happen here, too,” she signs off.
 
