JAIPUR: After going through a slump for nearly two years, the real estate could witness some recovery as the state government has announced reduction in registration fee and stamp duty. 

 Providing relief to big relators and buyers, chief minister Vasundhara Raje has once put a cap on registration fee. Now, the highest fee applicable will be Rs 4 lakh. In current scenario, a flat 1% of the registration fee is levied on purchasers. This would largely benefit buyers who are purchasing property over Rs 4 crore. 
 
 City’s leading developer Aatma Ram Gupta said, “ We welcome the announcement made during the Budget speech. Currently, if high-valued consumers are buying a property worth Rs 5 crore, the state government is levying Rs 5 lakh registration fee. The burden would be reduced.”
 
 Though many relators still believes Rs 4 lakh registration fee is high and would continue to burn hole in buyers pocket. “ We were demanding that maximum registration fee should not be more than Rs 1 Lakh,” said Ankur Tiwari , another developer in the city.
 
 To benefit the small developers, stamp duty on agreement to sale is reduced from 3% to 0.5%. Similarly, power of attorney authorising sell of immovable property is reduced 2% to 0.5%. 
 
 Registration fee on agreement to sale and power of attorney has been also reduced to 0.25% and maximum Rs 10,000. Manoj Agarwal , a real estate agent said , “ This would benefit all the buyers as they will have bear less charges on getting their property registered. Also, it would boost the property transactions.” 
 
 As there is slow growth in the real estate market, the state government has also announced 5 % concession on market value on commercial plots of 100 to 500 sq. metre and 10% in commercial plots more than 500 sq. metre. 
 
 However, the government has proposed to levy surcharge for development of basic infrastructure facilities and protection of cow across the board. Earlier it was levied on a few items.
 
 “The sector needs some helping hands. There is some relief. But given the poor health of the sector, more could have done to realise the goal of housing for all by 2022,” said Hitesh Dhanuka, the promotor of a leading real estate company in the city.
 
 
