SIRSA: The special investigation team (SIT), which has been formed to probe cases of violence by the followers of dera   and other matters related to the sect, has unearthed several bank accounts in the name of the   at Sirsa and traced an amount of over Rs 75 crore to these accounts. 

 The matter has been under investigation since the Punjab and   high court had ordered both states to evaluate movable and immovable assets of the sect after violence by the dera followers on August 25.
 
 Sources in the SIT said the dera had managed to get a loan for a number of its manufacturing units, schools, and hospitals from various banks. They added that the dera had an outstanding loan of Rs 10 crore in the name of Shah Satnam ji multi-specialty hospital from Oriental Bank of Commerce branch near its headquarters.
 
 The SIT had reportedly found 473 bank accounts, including saving and term deposits, of the dera having over Rs 75 crore while some are loan accounts. It is estimated that the total value of dera’s movable and immovable property is over Rs 1,500 crore.
 
 Sources added that over 30 such loan accounts were being run in the name of the dera in bank branches near its headquarters in Sirsa. There are three branches of different banks near the dera complex.
 
 The OBC branch has an amount of over Rs 42 crore in about 40 accounts in name of Dera Sacha Sauda Trust, Dera Sacha Sauda Welfare Trust and Shah Satnam ji  . The dera is also has an outstanding loan of over Rs 23 crore from the same branch. Sources said the dera had also shown deposits of Rs 3.5 crore in 32 accounts in a branch of SBI and an amount of over Rs 25 crore was deposited in 16 accounts of HDFC Bank. An amount of Rs 10 crore was deposited in the account of   Insan in HDFC Bank.
 
 One of the bank officials said that the dera head had less than Rs 1 lakh in his savings account in the OBC branch while Honeypreet’s account had over Rs 1 crore in the form of fixed deposit.
 
 OBC Branch manager Rajinder Kumar said, “We are investigating the number of accounts and FDs of the dera. There are over 200 FDs in our bank but we are still calculating the amount. Rs 23 crore is outstanding against the dera as it took a loan in the name of its manufacturing units and hospital. We are not worried about loan recovery as the schools and hospital have been made operational again. We are also hopeful about the manufacturing units, which had taken loans from us, to start operations again.”
 
 Dera’s officiating spokesperson Sandeep Mishra said, “The matter is subjudice so we cannot speak on the issue. However, accounts of a number of dera employees have also been seized. There are over 20,000 people employed with the dera.”
 
