PATNA: Anu Jha and   were crowned as Miss and Mr Farewell, respectively, at a   party organised by the department of mass communication, Central University of South Bihar, on Tuesday. Juniors bade adieu to their seniors with much fanfare. The fun-filled event saw games, competitions and performances from juniors, which earned plaudits from seniors and faculty members. The games like spoon race, dance competition and singing competition entertained the seniors. A video documentary produced by the juniors portraying the sweet and sour memories of the past two years literally made the seniors emotional. The senior students went through many rounds of competition to bag the Farewell crown.

 Topology training: The 13-day training programme on topology, organised by the mathematics department of Indian Institute of Technology-Patna and supported by National Board for Higher Mathematics (NBHM), was inaugurated on IIT-P campus on Monday by  , former professor of   and Tiken Singh of North-Eastern Hill University, Shillong. On the second day, Satya Deo Tripathi of Harish Chandra Research Institute-Allahabad and A R Shastri, IIT-Bombay talked about topology. Dr Ashish K Upadhyay and Dr Om Prakash of IIT-Patna are the convenors of this programme. “This is for the first time that this programme is conducted in the state with an aim to train young college and university teachers,” Ashish said.
 
 S N Sinha Memorial Lecture Series: Education minister Ashok Choudhary inaugurated the S N Sinha Memorial Lecture Series on the premises of A N College on Monday. The topic of the lecture was Gandhi and   satyagraha. Addressing the gathering, Choudhary said the programme organised by the state government to mark 100 years of Champaran satyagraha had always been a source of awareness for the new generation. The main speaker of the event was social activist Prerna Desai. She said Champaran satyagraha is a symbol of a powerful movement. She highlighted the contribution of Gandhi in freedom struggle. College principal S P Shahi, teaching staff and students were present on the occasion. 
 
