Chennai: When DSP BlackRock Mutual Fund (MF) decided to benchmark its funds to the ‘Total Returns Index (TRI)’ last month, it became only the third fund house in the country to do so. But following TRI isn’t an attractive option for fund managers. 

 The number of funds beating the underlying benchmark comes down significantly under TRI compared to the current methodology used for rating performance
 
 This is because TRI takes into account not only the price returns of stocks but also the dividends paid on them thereby bringing down the outperformance of a fund over the index. TRI, however, is a more transparent method, which presents a fair and accurate picture of the outperformance of equity MFs, say experts.
 
 “We compared the PRI (price returns index) vs TRI on a 5-year basis and found that the ‘Total Return’ of the S&P BSE 100 is 165 bps (basis points) (or 1.65%) pa (per annum) higher than the ‘Price Return’,” says Kaustubh Belapurkar, director-manager research, Morningstar Investment Adviser India. “As expected the number of large-cap funds beating benchmark drops from 85% to 58% after making a comparison with the TRI instead of the PRI,” he says.
 
 The typical dividend yield on benchmark stock indices is about 1.5% per annum. This means that the TRI benchmark will be harder to beat. Though TRI is commonly used as the primary benchmark for comparing fund performance globally, the trend is just taking off in India. “Following TRI is a global best practice. The investment team has to work harder now to beat TRI,” says Kalpen Parekh, president, DSP BlackRock Investment Managers. “It (TRI) helps investors and advisors to judge the real alpha generated by mutual funds,” he says. “Mutual funds receive dividends and the same is included in the NAV (net asset value), then why shouldn’t we use a benchmark that captures these dividends so as to make a fair and transparent comparison,” Belapurkar asks. “Funds should adopt this higher standard of reporting which increases the transparency to investors,” he says. Historically, Indian indices have always been tracked for the ‘Price Return’, but historical ‘Total Returns’ data is also available for most indices, although they are not widely tracked yet. “We believe the move towards TRI is a positive one and expect the other asset managers to follow suit soon,” Belapurkar says. “There is still a fairly healthy number of funds beating the benchmark (even after taking TRI for comparison). This demonstrates that fund managers can still add a fair bit of alpha through active management,” he says.
 
 
