 which marks the beginning of ethnic   is being celebrated with great fervour in the city today. While raising the gudi, decorating the house and preparing traditional delicacies are the order of the day in majority of the Maharashtrian homes today, there are some who are trying to do something different to make the occasion even more special. Also, the Telugu community of the city is gearing up for the   celebrations tomorrow. We give you the lowdown on these festivities... 

 
 
 Besides raising the traditional gudi at their respective homes, there are some who have decided to begin their New Year by doing a bit of a  . Informing about her noble endeavour, an engineering student   says, “I’m donating my old books, clothes and other things to the underprivileged people in the evening. In fact, this is my resolution for this year that for all the auspicious occasions and festivals. I shall be doing my bit to make the less fortunate happy.”
 
 
 
 For well-known theatre activist, Sanjay Pendse, this year’s Gudi Padwa is special in many ways. Elaborating on this, he says, “It is my birthday today; my wife Sarika and I are celebrating our 38th wedding anniversary as well. She is preparing my favourite shrikhand along with kande bhaje. Also, it is a working day for me, so we are spending some quality time together in the first half of the day.” 
 
 
 
 Vice Chancellor of RTM Nagpur University, Dr   is on a balancing spree today. “I’m currently in Mumbai to meet my son who has come down from London. Back home, my parents are performing all the festive rituals; my wife and I will be joining our parents later in the evening and savour gulab jamun and puran poli along with them,” says he.
 
 
 
 As a part of the Ugadi celebration, members of   have invited a fortuneteller to reveal what future holds for each member. Secretary of association, PS Murty shares, “Ugadi marks the onset of mango season. At our homes tomorrow we will relish a special chutney made of neem flowers, mango, tamarind and jaggery. But the segment which everyone is looking forward to is — Panchang Sravanam (future predictions), a fun session, after which we will all enjoy a community meal.” 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
