Winter is spelled as 
  for Nashikites. The city markets are flooded with special Jalgaon 
  (Eggplants) and no one can resist the temptation 
  with added ghee. They say that winter builds your appetite and Nashiktes are definitely making most of it by indulging into special   day in day out. We bring you the most popular winter delicacies of the city which you must not miss this season. 

  
  The first thing that comes to mind of any local resident during winter is feasting on 
 and 
 . “One single serving of this dish costs you Rs 150. “
  is advised to eat during winter. It’s filling yet low cal. Teaming it with spicy and savoury 
  is perfection personified!” says Sudhir Rahane, a marketing professional.
 
  
  Winter evenings feel even better if they are combined with piping hot 
 . Take a walk in the busy city streets and you will realise that all the food joints serving hot 
  are houseful. Along with city’s old and famous joints, Nashikites are going for new and undiscovered 
 i joints as well. 
 
  
  
  means roasted cobs of grains such as jowar, bajara and wheat which are plucked before they are completely ready. Combined with some spices and mineral salts, 
  tastes amazing. “Earlier farmers used to celebrate the new harvest by feasting on 
 . Now in city 
  parties have taken place of those celebrations,” informs Bhaumik Shaha, an economics student. 
 
  
  
 , especially green 
  such as 
  and 
  are making rounds among city youngsters. “
  and 
  are the favourite flavours of the season. These 
  are filling and very tasty,” says Shambhavi Vaze, a second year commerce student. 
 
  
  Just a glass, full or half, is enough to make you forget the fatigue of entire day. Of course that glass has to be of 
 . Nashikites drink 
  at night, especially in winters and this tradition is intact since ages. The young crowd at stalls near Gangapur Road, Panchavati and Main Road are evident of the fact that love for milk has passed on from generation to generation. 
 
 
