MUMBAI:   intervened in the currency market on Tuesday to dampen exuberance stemming from  's electoral showing and limiting a spike in the rupee, dealers said.
 
  Overseas investors have turned bullish on Indian assets amid expectations of a rapid acceleration in reforms by the government, which is emboldened by the strong showing, especially in the political crucial state of Uttar Pradesh.
  
  The rupee surged to a 16-month high against the dollar, closing at 65.82, a level last seen on November 6, 2015. It strengthened 79 paise, or 1.19%, from Friday's 66.61 close.This is the highest single-day gain since September 19 four years ago.
  
  RBI was seen intervening through state-owned banks that bought dollars, a move aimed at checking the rupee's wild swings, dealers said. The central bank, which could not be contacted immediately, typically doesn't comment when asked about such interventions.
  
  
 
  
  It also doesn't have a view on the rupee's value but acts to curb  , experts said. “Currency market was euphoric amid bullish sentiment, boosted by election results," said Keta Kurkute, vice-president, forex risk advisory, at consultancy Mecklai Financial.
  
  “The momentum is likely to sustain unless there is global surprise emanating from the US Federal Reserve. Custodian banks were seen selling the dollar on behalf of their overseas clients but some state-owned banks were seen buying dollars that initially helped check the rupee's sharp rise." The rupee is likely to trade in the 65.75-66.45 range over the next week, dealers said.
  
  The state election results are seen as a ringing endorsement of Prime Minister   and his policies, drowning out the criticism against the   drive that was aimed at curbing corruption and black money.
  
  This will give him more political space to pursue policy changes that would otherwise have been hard to implement besides eventually helping BJP to bolster its numbers in the Rajya Sabha, where it currently lacks a majority. This will make it easier for the government to pass reforms legislation.
  
  During the day, the rupee gained to as much as 65.78 against the dollar. A Monday ET poll of 15 market participants had said the rupee may rise to as much as 66, reversing any sharp falling trend.
  
  Besides traditional dollar buying from the domestic spot market, there was a tweak in the intervention strategy, dealers said.
  
  State-owned banks made 'sellbuy' derivative deals, converting spot dollar buying transactions into forward deals, dealers said, deferring delivery of dollars through such forwards deals. Banks sell dollars they bought in the spot market and then they buy the same unit in the next leg as a forward transaction, keeping the net position at 'buy'.
  
  “The approach is aimed at limiting rupee   in the system," said the head currency dealer of a mid-size bank.
  
  
 
  With a buzzing currency market, arbitrage opportunities have expanded between onshore and offshore markets.
  
  “Overseas inflows are primarily driving the rupee now,“ said Anindya Banerjee, currency analyst at Kotak Securities. “With the rupee hitting a fresh high, many speculators, who went long on the dollar, have hit stop losses. This has added to further dollar sales, which has been further exacerbated by large corporates cutting derivative deals."
  
  Currency speculators seem to have cottoned on to the market trend.The premium gap between overseas and local contracts on the Indian rupee has nearly doubled for short-duration forward deals.
  
  For offshore or non-deliverable forwards and onshore forward contracts between one and three months, the premium gap for the rupee-dollar pairing rose to 6-17 paise from 5-9 paise earlier, dealers said.
  
  The premium difference helps traders make money when spread betters, with a bullish rupee outlook, short-sell the dollar against the rupee in the domestic forwards and buy the same unit from the overseas derivative market.
  
  Many companies and hedge funds were seen to be active participants in these trades, seeking to benefit from the arbitrage opportunities presented by mega-events, such as the latest polls.
  
  “The rupee has bucked the trend among emerging markets," said KN Dey, an independent currency consultant based in Mumbai.“While the Chinese yuan in a trade-surplus country has depreciated in the past few months, the rupee has gained despite being a trade-deficit country. Market volatility will rise now with exporters having unhedged positions expecting a weaker rupee."
  
  Some exporters have already approached currency houses seeking to hedge positions while importers are now showing little interest in covering payment liabilities from currency risk. Foreign portfolio investors invested a net Rs 4,100 crore in equities on Tuesday, according to provisional BSE data. 
