NASHIK: The   ( ) has urged the government to extend the Merchandise Exports from India Scheme (MEIS) benefits at 5% by September 30. 

 Currently, the scheme is into effect up to March 31 and will expire thereafter. Keeping this in mind, the APMC wants the state government to extend the scheme by September 30. 
 
 The government had introduced the MEIS of 5% for export of ‘Onions Fresh or Chilled’ on August 26 last year, which was valid up to December 31. 
 
 The ministry of commerce & industry and the office of the director general foreign trade had extended the scheme by March 31 following the demand from the exporters and the   APMC. The scheme was introduced to increase the   export and stabilise the prices of onions in the market. 
 
 Chairman of Lasalgaon APMC,   said, “We have written to the government to extend the MEIS benefits of 5% to the onion exporters by September 30. The average wholesale onion prices have already declined below Rs 500 per quintal. So, there is a need to promote onion export to stabilise the onion prices. This will definitely boost the export of onions.”
 
 The country has exported 24 lakh metric tonne in the first nine months (April-December) of the current financial year 2016-17, recording an all-time high of onion export. The previous all-time high export of onions at 18.73 lakh metric tonne was registered during the 2009-10 financial period. The onion export is expected to touch 30 lakh metric tonne by the end of the current financial year.
 
 The country’s onion export has also increased three times more during the April-December period of the current financial year 2016-17 as compared to the corresponding period last financial year 2015-16. 
 
 Farmers are already incurring heavy losses due to a decline in the onion prices as they are unable to manage the production cost.
 
 “The government had announced a grant of Rs 100 per quintal for onion farmers who sold their produce during July and August. But, the farmers are yet to receive the grant. We had also demanded for minimum support price of Rs 1,500 per quintal, but the government has not taken any measures for it. A 5% subsidy to onion exporters will not help to stabilise the onion prices considering the huge supply of onions as compared to the demand. So, the government needs to take some measures to save farmers from incurring losses,” said Holkar.
 
