Jaipur: Deputy Speaker Rao Rajendra Singh blasted environment minister Gajendra Singh Khimsar on Thursday, as the pollution control board had not been tabling its audit reports for past nearly 15 years.

 In presenting its annual progress reports also, the department displayed grave negligence and tabled the report for 2014-15 instead of 2015-16 on Tuesday. The house had then granted two days’ time, which ended on Thursday evening, to the government to correct its mistake.
 
 The deputy speaker suo motu raised the issue during the zero hour and noted that failure in tabling the audit reports was tantamount to serious financial irregularities, which could invite stern action from the chair. Singh pointed out that for past three years the house had been cautioning the government against such laxities and every time the parliamentary affairs minister Rajendra Rathore assured to check its recurrence, but to no avail.
 
 “While the common man got it in 2005, this house has the right to information granted to it ever since the constitution came into force. If any department or its official fails to furnish information on time, the chair would be forced to take severest action (against the guilty),” Singh said.
 
 He added, “Your board (pollution control board) has not tabled audit accounts after 2001-02. This is serious financial irregularity, so you should submit a written explanation on it to the house within next 24-hour.”
 
 Environment minister Khimsar twice apologised before the house and assured that the progress report for 2015-16 would be submitted on Friday morning.
 
 BJP MLA Narpat Singh Rajvi intervened saying, “If the audited accounts have not been tabled since 2001, we are violating the constitution by drawing from the state consolidated fund.”
 
 Prohibition in Rajasthan: The house witnessed bouts of laughter when Congress legislator Sukhram Vishnoi, while moving an adjournment motion to demand prohibition in the state, addressed deputy speaker Rao Rajendra Singh and said that consumption of liquor was earlier limited to his (Singh’s) community (Rajputs). As Singh asked Vishnoi why he was linking liquor consumption to a particular community, the Congress legislator said, “I meant to say, the particular community knew how to drink. Those men drank one bottle in four hours; while people now gulp down a quarter-bottle in one go.” When MLA Manoj Nyangli asked that the remark against Rajputs be expunged, the deputy speaker said, “He (Vishnoi) did not name any community; he pointed to the Chair, which belongs to all the members, so the remark is on all the communities.” This left the house in splits once again.
 
 Home minister Gulab Chand Kataria, while replying on the motion, said if 20% of the locals do not want liquor shop in their areas, a referendum is held to shut it down. Kataria said the government accepted all 15 suggestions given by the committee, which included ex-MLA Gurusharan Chhabra, in 2013-14. “As per the committee’s recommendation, the condition of two-third votes required to shut liquor shops was brought down to 51% votes.” Vishnoi demanded that only women should be allowed to vote.
 
 
