MUMBAI:   cannot be granted death and neither can he be sentenced to perpetuity or even beyond 25 years, said his lawyer, Sudeep Pasbola, on Monday as he sought a lighter sentence for him.

 Pasbola read from Indian government assurances to the Portuguese government about not sentencing Salem to more than 25 years. He also said that given provisions in the Extradition Act, especially Section 34 C of the Act that bars India from seeking death penalty for an accused extradited from a court where capital punishment is illegal, it was not open for the prosecution nor court to seek or grant death sentence to Salem now. “Please take note of the assurance given by L K  , then deputy Prime Minister in the BJP-led government, while passing the sentence for Salem,’’ said Pasbola. “Courts are not powerless,’’ he added. He said that for eight cases that he was extradited for, Salem cannot get different sentences that breach the extradition law and assurances. He said the government had not complied with assurances of converting or limiting Salem’s sentence.
 
 Special designated TADA judge G A Sanap had on June 16 held six guilty in the March 12, 1993,   case, in which 257 had died and 713 were injured. The court had held Salem to be among the main conspirators under the Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act for his role in going to Gujarat and bringing back in a car, arms and ammunitions that were smuggled into India from Pakistan.
 
 Pasbola will continue his submissions on Salem on Tuesday.
 
 Special public prosecutor Deepak Salvi of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had on July 4 sought a life sentence for Salem, in view of a bar under the Extradition Act. Salem was in 2005 extradited from   on a 2003 order, which does not permit death sentence. Under the Act, Salem cannot be awarded the death penalty as Portugal, from where he was extradited, does not provide for it.
 
 Salem was accused as “one of the main conspirators of the main conspiracy’’ as he “was knowingly facilitating transportation and supply of arms and ammunition” and playing an “extremely significant role”.
 
 In 2015, after his conviction for the 1995 murder of Pradeep Jain, a special court had given Salem life sentence, as the then special public prosecutor Ujjwal Nikam too said he was prevented from seeking the maximum death penalty because of the extradition treaty and law. There was no specification on the number of years but he could approach the government for remittance in sentence.
 
 In March, in response to a plea by Salem before the European Court of Human Rights, the Portuguese government said that it was in constant touch with Indian authorities, who had in December 2015 assured that the agreement for extradition of Salem would be “scrupulously respected’’.
 
