NEW DELHI: The   railway station has been ranked fifth cleanest among the A1 category stations surveyed in the latest   — the cleanest in the capital ahead of its more heralded rivals, Old Delhi (24th) and New Delhi (39th) stations. Anand Vihar’s cleanliness is helped to an extent by the smaller passenger load than the other two, but it also has some practical design features that helps it manage waste and dirt better.

 Stations whose annual earning is more than Rs 50 crore come under A1 category.
 
 Setting the station apart is the use of 10-metre wide subways instead of foot-over-bridges. This feature helps reduce the passenger congestion on the platforms. 
 
 Railway officials said that another unique feature of the station was the loading of parcels, food and linen on trains in the stabling area rather than at the platform. This has greatly reduced the chances of garbage and litter accumulating on the tracks.
 
 “On all other stations including Old Delhi, Nizamuddin and New Delhi, parcel goods, food items and linen are loaded on the platform. Moreover, at Anand Vihar, exit rooms don’t open towards the platform but towards the main entry to the station to ensure that food items or garbage do not end up on the platform or the tracks,” said RN Singh, divisional railway manager (New Delhi).
 
 In addition, Anand Vihar has an underground drainage system designed to keep the tracks clean. The tracks also have the provision for being cleaned by spray machines that run on the central line between the platforms. “A lot of plantation work has also been carried out in the non-operational areas at Anand Vihar to promote beauty and cleanliness, and we are conducting a survey that will aid us in carrying out similar developments at Nizamuddin, Old Delhi and New Delhi railway stations,” added Singh.
 
 Meanwhile, the New Delhi railway station will soon see an operational waste-to-energy plant becoming operational as part of a green initiative. This power plant is likely to handle most of the waste load generated at the station. At Old Delhi, there are plans to install solar panels.
 
 Railways officials opined that a higher passenger load could be the reason why New Delhi railway station lagged so far behind in the Swachh Railway survey. 
 
 “New Delhi station is as old as Anand Vihar,” said an official. “But the higher footfall there when compared with Anand Vihar is one reason why the cleanliness levels there are slightly below other stations in Delhi. But work is under way to improve the situation there.” 
 
