VASCO:   whipped 10-man   4-1 on Sunday to enter the  , sidestepping all permutations and combinations that sees all four other teams in Group B in with a chance with the last round of matches to be played.
 
  At the Tilak Maidan, here, Kerala fed on energy of a remarkable rearguard against Punjab that brought in two late goals, one in stoppage time, to force a 2-2 draw on Friday.
  
  Against Mizoram however, the five-time champions, made an early statement by scoring twice before the match was 10 minutes old.
  
  Kerala surged into the lead through Jobby Justin, hat-trick hero against Railways, who headed home from Sree Rag’s freekick in the ninth minute.
  
  Seesan made it 2-0 two minutes later with a gem of a volley from distance that had goalkeeper Lalruatpuia grabbing at thin air.
  
  Substitute Asharudeen, coming in for Sahal Abdul Samad, scored a brace in the second half with goals in the 64th and and 84th minutes to make it 4-0.
  
  Mizoram scored a consolation goal in the 86th minute through substitute Lalrammawia.
  
  The North East team did themselves no favours in over-enthusiastic challenges that brooked three yellow cards and a dash of indiscipline that brought in a second yellow for Lalfakzuala Fakzuala.
  
  The midfielder earned Crystal John’s wrath for back-chatting after being booked minutes earlier for bringing down Sree Rag.
  
  Kerala, well in control, thanks to Jijo Joseph’s marshalling of the midfield, could have ended the match as a contest before halftime but Jobby spurned three chances including one on the dot of halftime when his deft placement went a tad wide.
  
  Mizoram went close just once in the half when Lalrammuanpuia stuck the bar off Ramfanzauva’s corner.
  
  Kerala coach VP Shaji, started with Muhammed Parakkottil, two-goal hero against Punjab, keeping the seasoned Usman on the bench.
  
  He brought in Usman in the second half and the striker made an immediate impact, finding Asharudeen who got around the goalkeeper to make it 3-0.
  
  Parakkottil, on his part, paved way for the fourth goal, crossing to the effervescent Asharudeen who did the rest.
  
  “I am happy variations in the lineup worked for us,” said Shaji who is ready for any semifinal opponent.
  
  Anand Gurung, Mizoram assistant coach, put his team’s non-performance on the day to over-confidence and the two early goals that demoralized his team as did the red card.
  
  But Mizoram, 2014 champions, retain hope of making the semifinals as news filtered through that Maharashtra defeated Punjab in the encounter at Bambolim, a result that brought calculators out.
  
  Mizoram have their fate in their own hands when they play Railways on Tuesday. A victory will take them through. A draw will usher them out of the tournament.
  
  Maharashtra need to win against Kerala and hope that Mizoram draw with Railways. Meanwhile Punjab, overnight table toppers, must hope that both encounters end in draws.
