HYDERABAD: Breaking away from an age-old trend, city students appear to be increasingly shunning science-related streams as a career choice. At least that's what the findings of a   , conducted by a  , reveals. According to its data, almost 69 per cent   that non-science streams have higher scope.

 The study, conducted by Lodestar, surveyed 23,000 students from 329 schools across three metro cities-Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Chennai. Of this, 7,000 were from Hyderabad. A sizeable chunk of participants -those in Classes 9 and 10 --agreed that taking the unconventional route was the way forward. Software engineering and medicine, which were once the most popular choices among students, are now on the wane, the survey indicated. The preferred career fields, at present, include emerging sectors such as construction, banking and finance, media and entertainment and architecture.
 
 While around 12 per cent students did choose engineering owing to the technological advancements, like robotics, 3D printing and nanotechnology, that have thrown up new avenues, an equal percentage of them appeared inclined towards joining the public sector. Their reason: better pay, courtesy the 7th pay commission.
 
 The common thread among students in all cities, however, was their urge to ex plore career opportunities based on their passion and strengths and not money or societal status alone. In Hyderabad, 71 per cent students felt that career decision should be based on a combination of aptitude, strength and passion and not just salary, status and security.
 
 “I believe career is no more about having a fat salary and security . It is also about liking the job,“ opined C Sharath, a student of Delhi Public School, Nacharam.
 
 While majority schools offer career counselling, 76 per cent of the students in the city felt that the right time to plan their career was before or while pursing Class 10. For 33 per cent, the right time was after Class 8.
 
 “In today's competitive world, where the rules of the employment game have changed drastically , students are realising the importance of matching their career choices to their passion in order to survive and succeed. It is heartening to find youngsters take better control of their careers choices,“ said   S, founder and chief operating officer of Lodestar Career Guidance.
 
