NEW DELHI: Congress veteran   accused the Centre of targeting him for his criticism of the Modi administration, and rubbished the reasons cited by the government for the   raids against his son.

 “The government, using the CBI and other agencies, is targeting my son and his friends. The government’s aim is to silence my voice and stop me from writing, as it has tried to do in the cases of leaders of opposition parties, journalists, columnists, NGOs and civil society organisations,” Chidambaram said in a statement, adding that state action would not deter him from voicing his opinion.
 
 The former finance minister said every Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB) approval during his tenure was consistent with law. “FIPB approval is granted in hundreds of cases. 
 
 The five secretaries who constitute the FIPB, the officials of the FIPB secretariat and the competent authority in each case are public officials. There is no allegation against any of them. There is no allegation against me.
 
 Every case was processed according to law and approval was granted or refused in accordance with the recommendations of the FIPB consisting of five secretaries to the government of India,” Chidambaram said.
 
 Congress separately accused the Centre of ignoring scams involving senior BJP members. “Revenge is in the DNA of this BJP government. We want to reiterate that neither Chidambaram nor any Congress or opposition leader would be cowed down by fear of vendetta,” AICC spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said.
 
 He said PM   should delineate his yardstick of morality, asking why he had not ordered probes “into corporate diaries that had listed him as a beneficiary of bribes” or into “the Rs 20,000 crore loss suffered by state exchequer in the Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation scam during his tenure as CM”.
 
 Congress asked why the PM had not taken action against MP CM Shivraj Chouhan for the  , and against Rajasthan CM   and foreign minister   “for helping Lalit Modi escape the law”.
 
 The party also asked the government to probe who had helped fugitives like   leave the country
 
