GURUGRAM: The   of the   that starts Monday will be a closely watched one in Gurgaon as the government is likely to table the bill to create a new development authority for the city. The Gwalphari land ownership controversy, which concerns 464 acres of prime real estate, will also come up in the assembly.

 Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had told TOI in an interview published on February 15 that the Gurgaon Metropolitan Development Authority ( ) “will be a reality immediately after the Budget session in March.” 
 
 It was back in September 2016 that the CM had announced the GMDA as the government was left deeply embarrassed by the monster 20-hour jam of July 28 and 29 that was triggered by a spell of heavy rain and a series of administrative lapses.
 
 While the GDA draft bill was in place by November 1, along with an officer on special duty (OSD), V Umashankar, to head it, the bill is yet to be passed by the assembly so that the formal process to set up the agency can start. The government, in the meantime, had planned to promulgate an ordinance, but decided against it.
 
 A original GMDA draft has now been revised after exhaustive consultation sessions that were held with several various stakeholders, apart from feedback that was received from residents in Gurgaon. 
 
 “We are not expecting any sort of trouble in getting the bill passed,” state cabinet minister and Badshapur MLA Rao Narbir Singh said.
 
 Where the government can expect questions, though, is the   land issue, some of them from within the BJP fold. 
 
 Gurgaon MLA Umesh Aggarwal, who had earlier asked the CM and his party to break their silence on Gwalpahari (the CM did say the government could refer it to the  ), said he will bring up the issue in the assembly.
 
 “It needs to be found out who the officials are who are responsible behind the government land in Gwalpahari getting into the hands of private owners,” he said. 
 
 “I will demand that this be investigated thoroughly. Apart from this, I will also raise the issue of changing the route of the proposed Metro (Iffco Chowk-Dwarka) in Gurgaon and altering the transit-oriented development policy to suit certain people. 
 
 While the chief minister himself is an honest man, he is being misguided by some senior bureaucrats. We need to get to the root of these pertinent issues, which reek of corruption,” Aggwarwal added.
 
 There are 322 private players who are in possession of the Gwalpahari land that is under controversy. They say they are the original owners of the land but the MCG has also claimed ownership through a mutation. 
 
 Recently, the civic body issued eviction notices to the private players, who have subsequently moved both the Sohna civil court and the Punjab and Haryana high court.
 
