PUNE: Bus drivers of the   (MSRTC) on Wednesday locked down   for four hours after one of their colleagues was allegedly thrashed by a driver of a private vehicle.

 With buses at the depot getting blocked, many passengers faced difficulties due to extended travel time.
 
 “A driver was parking the bus at the parking lot designated for buses at around 6am. However, there was a car standing in the same place. When the driver of the car was asked to move his vehicle, he entered into a heated argument with the bus driver. As the argument turned worse, the car driver allegedly slapped the bus driver. This angered other drivers and employees, who started to protest and demanded immediate action. They also locked down the depot for four hours until 10 am,” an official at the depot said.
 
 As many as 30 buses of the state transport travel to different locations from the Chinchwad depot. In addition, everyday, 70 additional buses halt at the depot to pick up and drop passengers.
 
 “With the depot locked, I faced problems and had to wait for three hours. Thanks to the delay, my travel plans turned topsy-turvy. I had to reach Aurangabad during the first half of the day for a business meeting but I couldn’t make it on time,” said  , a businessman.
 
 Officials at the depot said that they were able to calm the drivers after much persuasions only by 9.40 am.
 
 “Around a week ago, a state transport bus driver Prabhakar Giakwad died after allegedly being thrashed by an autorickshaw driver in Bhiwandi. Giakwad had gone to the police station to lodge a complaint where he suddenly collapsed. He was rushed to a hospital but died during treatment. This incident is still fresh in the minds of the drivers and it fuelled the protest and chakka jam today,” an MSRTC official added.
 
 Sources in the transport body said that they were mulling legal action against the man who thrashed the driver on Wednesday.
 
 PMPML warns action against scamsters
 
 The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML), which is presently recruiting drivers, conductors and cleaners, has warned people against conmen, who promise to give them jobs with the public transport service provider.
 
 “The procedure of selecting people is conducted online and is based on merit. People should immediately report such conmen, who might ask for money to secure the jobs. They can call the toll free number 1064 or call on 020-6132802, 020-2612213,” a PMPML official said.
 
