LUDHIANA: The luminous green hues of rural Malwa are punctuated by bursts of vibrant yellow mustard fields. Through the green and yellow comes a throng of jhadoo wielders, some wearing white caps, on motorcycles and jeeps yelling, “Na Chitta nu, na daru nu, vote pao jhadoo nu”. (No to drugs, no to alcohol, vote for jhadoo). AAP posters are splashed across Malwa and loudspeaker vans blaring AAP election songs trundle past. Armed with a tough line on drugs and alcohol, Kejriwal’s party is hoping to do a New Delhi redux in the Malwa region of Punjab. With its 69 seats, AAP is banking on Malwa to win its first state outside Delhi.

 AAP’s Punjab campaign has been attacked by opponents for not being led by a Sikh face. But one of AAP’s star Sikh faces is H S Phoolka, former Supreme Court lawyer best known for battling for 1984 riot victims, who has now given up his legal practice to plunge full time into politics. He is contesting from the Dakha seat in rural Ludhiana. With a motorcycle contingent accompanying him, Phoolka’s convoy threads through the narrow streets of Dakha’s villages. “Frankly I never wanted to join politics,” he tells TOI, “but I gave in to the public pressure. Also I have been working here for years and have been upset by what a bad state its in. In every village, people come to me and say “Chitta band karwado, jhootha parcha band karwado.” (Save us from drugs and fake FIRs). Phoolka says the curse of drugs and police excesses on innocents have made rural folk desperate for change. “People tell me, brother it’s your turn now.”
 
 But what about the charge that AAP is a party of outsiders in Punjab? “How are we outsiders,” asks Phoolka. “I belong to Punjab, my house is in Punjab, even if I lose the election I will stay on and work here in Punjab.” He says the party is campaigning on a strong anti-drug, anti-corruption pitch and vowing to put even top Akali leaders behind bars for the way money and muscle power and the drug trade has ruined Punjab. So is he hoping to be CM or is Kejriwal himself going to be Punjab chief minister? “Kejriwal has repeatedly said that if we win, one of the MLAs will be CM.” Does Kejriwal only want a rubber spineless Sikh CM here? “All I can say us a person who is spineless can’t be a Sikh,” says Phoolka.
 
 In villages people are guarded in their responses. Are they willing to give AAP a chance? “We have seen both Congress and Akalis, they belong to the same system,” says Mehak, a student. She says younger people like her are willing to give AAP a chance. But has AAP really delivered in Delhi? She’s non-committal: “Kejriwal seems to have a clean image.”
 
 “Our campaign in Malwa is far ahead of the others,” says Sanjay Singh AAP Punjab in charge. “We have already finished 2-3 rounds of door-to-door campaigns. We are now focusing on creating a buzz and a mahaul that AAP is forming the next government.” In 2014 general elections, AAP won its four   seats in Malwa –Sangrur, Faridkot, Patiala and Fatehgarh Sahib. “Since these are rural seats, we already had an organization here which we built on for the assembly polls,” says Sanjay Singh. He believes in Malwa there is an “open wave” for AAP and points out that Bhagwant Mann and Kejriwal have been getting huge crowds. He says the AAP in Malwa is even better organized and equipped than in Delhi. But isn’t AAP too much of a newcomer? “We were newcomers in Delhi as well,” says Singh. “Now there is a sweep for us in Malwa villages.”
 
 “We have been working here in Malwa for the past two years,” says AAP’s Durgesh Pathak, “we have gone to every home at least 10 times. While Congress people were waiting for tickets we were far ahead in our campaign. We are fighting the election on Kejriwal’s name.” Bhagwant Singh Toor, co-ordinator of AAP NRI cell, is one of the NRIs who have come to campaign for AAP in Malwa. He says NRIs have organized big road shows here with 300 cars and 70-100 motorcycles. “I would not have emigrated from Punjab if there was a proper system here for my kids,” says Toor. “If the system here improves many of us are willing to come back.”
 
 Says Karan Deep Singh Johal a doctor and AAP supporter based in Amritsar and Ludhiana, “People in rural areas want a complete change, they are disheartened and angry. Many local businessmen tell me Akalis are ruining our businesses as they want a share in everything.” Dr Gurpreet Singh, a physician says AAP is the main beneficiary of the anti-incumbency mood against the Badals in Malwa. He points out that the Congress does not have the kind of grass roots support that AAP has built. “Amarinder is a good man in a bad party.”
 
 “People here are very scared,” says Phoolka. “Against their wishes, Akalis and Congress are planting their flags on their roofs.” Malwa was once the home of Naxalism and the communist party in Punjab, it’s the anti-establishment heartland of Punjab. Phoolka believes there is a revolutionary streak among the people here. “This is the state of  , Punjab is a revolutionary state and a revolution is coming,” he says.
 
 From Bhatinda to Ludhiana to Faridkot, Malwa looks overrun by AAP publicity. AAP party faithful are brimming with confidence but the voter for the moment is unwilling to speak her mind. It is a silence which AAP is counting on and which unnerves both Akalis and Congress: will a silent AAP undercurrent become a wave on voting day?
 
 
