PATNA: Senior BJP functionary and former Bihar deputy CM   on Saturday fired fresh salvo on RJD chief   and claimed that former Union minister   gifted 9.39 decimal (around 4,100 sq ft) of land at Chitkohra in Patna for free to his two minister sons —   and   — in 2005.
 
  Modi alleged Kanti’s gift to the Lalu family was a quid pro quo to seek ministerial berth at the Centre as the “deal” was made mere seven months after Lalu became railway minister in UPA-1 government in 2004. Kanti was Union minister of heavy industries, human resources development and tourism between 2006 and 2009. Modi said the land with a three-storey building on it was registered in the name of Tejashwi and Tej Pratap as a gift on January 6, 2005.
  
  The BJP leader in Bihar legislative council also showed a copy of the document which reads: “Donees (Tejashwi and Tej Pratap) have been close to the donor (Kanti) like her own sons. They have been sincerely serving the donor and have always stood by her like own sons. The faithful services of donees desired to make a gift in favour of the donees.”
  
  Modi said both Tejashwi and Tej Pratap were 15-16 years old when the land was gifted to them. “Tej Pratap used to play flute and Tejashwi was playing cricket at that time. What service they had rendered to Kanti at that age that she gifted them her land located at a prime location in Patna. Besides, was Kanti’s own son Rishi nalayak (unworthy) that rather than gifting the land to him, she gifted it to Lalu’s sons? The only logical explanation for this is that she gifted the land to seek election ticket and ministerial berth,” Modi told newsmen.
  
  Earlier, he alleged on Thursday that Kanti, her husband and son leased out around 95 decimal (close to one acre) of land in Patna to Lalu’s wife and former Bihar CM Rabri Devi in 2006 for 99 years in lieu of seeking ministerial berth for her.
  
  Kanti on Friday said she not only leased the land but also sold it to Rabri in 2010 to meet her own financial needs. Modi, however, claimed the land sold by Kanti to Rabri is a different plot from the one leased out by her to the former Bihar CM.
  
  Modi has been holding pressers at regular intervals for the past 23 days, claiming to “expose” the benami properties and land deals of RJD chief Lalu Prasad and his family, including his sons Tejashwi and Tej Pratap, who are ministers in the Nitish government.
