NEW DELHI: The Centre has turned down the Supreme Court’s 19 picks for the Allahabad high court yet again, in a departure from tradition that indicates the ugly confrontation between the judiciary and the executive over appointments to the higher judiciary might continue in 2017. 

 Although the Centre and SC have frequently disagreed over the appointment of judges for the apex court and high courts, the executive had so far deferred to the   if the latter chose to reiterate its choices. The Modi government did clear the appointment of 126 high court judges at the instance of the collegium, but its assertiveness in the case of appointments for the Allahabad high court will ensure there is no end to tensions over judicial appointments. 
 
 The collegium, headed by Chief Justice  , had reiterated the 19 names in November after the Centre sent them back for reconsideration. Traditionally, once the collegium reiterated names returned by the Centre, the government gave effect to the recommendations. However, the Centre has decided to continue with the assertive posture it adopted after a five-judge bench of the SC struck down the National Judicial Appointments Commission. It is making use of the same five-judge bench’s December 2015 direction asking the Centre to reframe the   (MoP) taking note of the stringent criticism of the collegium’s “opaque” mechanism to select judges. 
 
 Without specifying non-finalisation of the MoP as the main reason for delay in the appointment of HC judges, the Centre has been adopting one reason or the other to stall recommendations made during the tenure of CJI Thakur. Most of the 126 judges appointed to the HCs were from the district judge category, and the Centre has stalled most of the selections from among advocates. 
 
 Appearing for the Centre, attorney general (AG) Mukul Rohatgi told a bench of   T S Thakur and Justice D Y Chandrachud that the government had decided to return the 19 names recommended by the collegium for appointment as judges to the Allahabad HC. This caught the CJI by surprise. Justice Thakur said “we had reiterated the names” to remind the government about the tradition by which it is bound to give effect to the appointments. But the AG said the government had found certain procedural deficiencies in the recommendations, and sought reconsideration. 
 
 In November last year, the government had returned 37 names for the collegium’s reconsideration. The CJI-headed collegium had immediately reiterated the names. On the judicial side, the CJI-headed bench had slammed the government for sitting over the recommendations when the high courts were finding it difficult to function with a working strength of below 60% of the sanctioned posts. The CJI had slammed the Centre for attempting to lock out the judiciary by citing the ground reality in several high courts where courtrooms were locked because of the non-availability of judges. 
 
 CJI Thakur retires on Tuesday, and, on Wednesday, Justice   takes oath as the 44th CJI. The members of the collegium hope that the confrontation between the executive and the judiciary would be sorted out soon to expeditiously fill the vacancies by finalising the MoP.
 
