Nagpur: Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Monday was all praise for Nago Ganar, who is contesting the MLC election from teachers’ constituency in Nagpur division for a second consecutive term. “We thought he will relent when the BJP-led government took over in the state two years ago. But he became more aggressive in pursuing cause of teachers and education,” remarked Fadnavis launching the campaign for Ganar on Monday afternoon. Earlier, Ganar filed his nomination papers at the divisional commissioner office for the February 3 elections for the MLC post. Known as a humble, sincere and honest leader Ganar has pursued issues related to teachers very effectively in his first term that is coming to an end. “Thanks to his single-minded pursuit, my government was able to resolve the matter of aid to non-grant educational institutions that has been pending for last 15 years,” said Fadnavis. Ganar, candidate of the Maharashtra Rajya Shikshak Parishad (a RSS affiliated teachers organization), is supported by the BJP. Chandrapur-based Anil Shinde of the Congress will be among half-a-dozen candidates in the fray against Ganar. Guardian minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule, mayor Pravin Datke, MLA Sidhakar Deshmukh, Nana Shamkule, Sudhakar Kohale, Krishna Khopde and others were present with Ganar for filing of election papers. Addressing a gathering of teachers and BJP workers at Shikshak Sahkari Bank hall here, Fadnavis said he was aghast by the rampant irregularities indulged in by the education societies in teachers recruitment. “If a teacher who is supposed to guide the next generation makes such a start to his career, how can we expect protection of values,” asked Fadnavis. “We are proposing a new policy to check this,” he added. “I have no doubt that upright leaders like Ganar will always fight for improving quality of education and that of teachers,” he said. The BJP is confident that the spotless image of Ganar and the support of party workers would see Ganar through. “We have enrolled 33000 voters this time and hope Ganar Sir would set a new record of victory margin. Last time he won by a margin of 14,000 which was a record and this time he should cross that mark,” said a BJP leader.