LUCKNOW: In the forthcoming municipal elections, BJP aims to work on ‘dark zones’ in which the party has lost or performed dismally in the last three elections. Most of these booths where the party won less than 50 votes in last three elections are Muslim-dominated and BJP aims to win these booths not only in the local body polls but in 2019 Lok Sabha elections too.

 There are   each of which has been assessed with respect to vote percentage. Based on the assessment, seven LS seats on which the party lost in 2014 and 78 Vidhan seats where party lost in the assembly elections have been identified as  . Besides, booths in the won-over Lok Sabha and Assembly seats where party performed dismally are in the dark zone too. The booths have been categorised in four groups—A where the party has won in all three electons; B where party won in two out of three elections, C where party won only in one election and D where the party polled less than 50 votes. 
 
 “Many D category booths are Muslim-dominated and party will work on bring them to the mainstream and make them part of the development plan,” said UP BJP vice president and in charge of local body elections JPS Rathore. 
 
 The strategy to win has been based on mobilisation of booth level workers who, in turn, will drive the party’s message to voters. The key role will be played by ‘Vistaraks’ (propagandists) trained in the party’s ideology who will mobilise workers at ground level. 
 
 In all, 116 Vistaraks have been trained and one each will be sent to 93 organisational districts with BJP incumbents. The Vistaraks will stay and work in the district other than the ones they belong to realise ‘Hamara booth sabse mazboot (my booth strongest)’ aim set by the party ahead of the municipal elections. “They have been trained in how to strike conversation with people without intruding and also in conveying the list of Centre’s achievements to voters,” said Rathore. The idea is to increase number of BJP supporters at the booth level. 
 
 “In the previous regime, development was limited to a few local bodies in the state like Rampur, Kannauj or Saifai, while we are working to make Vibrant UP a reality,” said UP BJP spokesperson, Dr Chandramohan. Much of the strategy for municipal elections has been planned keeping an eye on 2019 LS elections as well as Vistaraks and mobilised booth level workers will be relevant after municipal elections too. 
 
 More than 20,000 divisional level workers will live in divisions other than their’s between May 10 and May 25 in 13,091 sectors that the state has been divided into.
 
 Out of the 12 municipal corporations, BJP has won 11. The party has 11,993 members in 12 municipal corporations, 438 town areas or nagar panchayats and 202 nagar palika parishads.
 
 IN ORDER OF SUCCESS
 
 A. category booths are where party has won in all the last three elections
 
 B. category booths are where party has won in two last elections
 
 C. category booths are where party emerged a winner in only one last election
 
 D. category booths are where party did not get more than 50 votes.
 
