
 

 
 
 Not at all, but V was designed to warn against a grim possibility — like a kind of 1984 in comics. And as George Orwell’s message was one that reached out to wide readership because it spoke of universal matters of importance to us all, it’s no surprise that ours ('V for Vendetta') did as well. The use of V’s mask in representing resistance to 
 oppression in a real life context is just an accident of fate, but a happy one, I think.
 
 
 
 Well, V warns about a disillusioned and deprived section of the society that seeks hope by trusting an uncompromising and radical political power, and how things can go wrong in a situation like that — as has happened at other times in history. And it’s not just in the US where neglected areas of the electorate are driving the political agenda — this is happening in various places around the world. The complacent political establishment is responsible for it. We can only hope it doesn’t all work out too badly.
 
  
 
 
 Well, there isn’t one except for the collective image of the disenfranchised, who are rebelling against a political system that doesn’t meet their demands. It’s not a rebellion against old-fashioned totalitarianism, but a rebellion against what democracy has become under complacent political power structures.
 
  
 
 
 
 Not for me. And not for the readers of the online comic art magazine that I publish, which is almost entirely devoted to the simplest and most commonly-used comic styles and storytelling techniques. We use technology to bring comics to a wider market through cyberspace, but the art of the medium has not changed. We just change the surface — exchanging paper for the computer screen, and cutting costs by doing so.
 
 
 
 Out of that list, V for Vendetta, of course. Because the others don't, of necessity, seek to say anything. And it's always better to say something through art rather than not.
 
 
 
 The same thing as last time — meeting lots of nice people and being in a city I haven’t been to before and, hopefully, experiencing the enthusiasm for my work that I’ve been privileged to receive from Comic Conventions across other Indian cities!
  
 
