New Delhi: The Supreme Court-directed ban on   vends within 500 metres of all highways was followed by a   on Friday that went on past midnight. By Saturday morning, 100 authorised liquor vends, restaurants and hotel bars in   had been shut down. But more could be added to that list. The state excise department will soon carry out a fresh stock-taking to ensure no restaurant or outlet escapes the proscription.

 According to excise officials, the establishments that have been closed all fall within 500 metres of the six national highways linking Delhi with other states. “Our actions were based on the recently notified list of highways put out by the ministry of road transport and highways,” said a senior official. The five-star hotels on Ring Road and Outer Ring Road, however, do not come under the purview of the notification though the excise department will assess the distances of all   outlets from the national highways.
 
 Measurement is a fraught exercise, and Saturday saw the excise department receiving numerous complaints about the affected restaurants being outside the stipulated distance. Some owners sought measuring afresh, while many anxious eatery investors went back to their drawing boards to calculate what the ban on liquor would do to revenues.
 
 Delhi government data list 704 restaurants with bar licences, 399 private vends and 170 liquor shops in the malls. There are 350 government-run liquor outlets. The excise department identified 100 as running foul of the SC’s directive.
 
 The implementation of the court order in the capital has complex implications for urban planning. The Master Plan for Delhi 2021 permits liquor vends in commercial areas and not in residential areas, but many new commercial areas have been planned around highways. Licensed liquor sellers now are required to look for alternative space, which is not going to be easy given the stringent land-use norms of the master plan.
 
 It has also left large swathes of unauthorised colonies lacking for options. Under the law, liquor vends cannot be authorised in such areas. Most of the customers, therefore, have been buying their alcohol from permitted vends in nearby localities. In some cases now, even the sole legal outlet has been shut down. A vend in Mundka in west Delhi is an example. Another example is Jasola in south-east Delhi which caters to several irregular colonies around. 
 
 With the number of outlets restricted, the worry is that liquor will be smuggled into Delhi from neighbouring states to meet demand. As things stand, no new vends can be opened at the moment after the Delhi government decided last year not to issue fresh licenses. This stipulation, contained in the partly notified excise policy of 2016, will remain in effect till a new policy is framed by Delhi government.
 
 The SC, keeping in mind the large number of fatalities on highways due to drunk driving, had ordered that no liquor vend could operate within 500m of national and state highways on December 15.
 
