NEW DELHI:  's lifting of cash withdrawal limits from all types of bank accounts barring savings accounts was an unintended consequence of its dispute with the   over raising this limit for candidates in poll-bound states to Rs 2 lakh a week.

 The EC had on Sunday objected to RBI's refusal to raise weekly cash withdrawal limit for candidates to Rs 2 lakh from Rs 24,000, arguing that the step was needed to ensure that candidates are able to defray election expenditure up to the statutory limit of Rs 28 lakh for UP , Punjab and Uttarakhand, and Rs 20 lakh for Goa and Manipur. The panel had, in a strongly-worded communication asking RBI to reconsider its decision, rapped it for “not realising the gravity of the matter“.
 
 During discussions between EC and RBI on Monday to resolve the issue, the Central bank representatives are known to have pointed out two things. One, the alleged “lack of application of mind“ by the EC while issuing directions to RBI to raise the Rs 24,000 weekly cash withdrawal limit to Rs 2 lakh. “All EC needed to do was to insist on candidates operating current accounts for poll expenditure, for which the limit was Rs 1 lakh, much higher than the savings bank withdrawal limit of Rs 24,000 a week. It could have at most requested RBI to raise this limit to Rs 2 lakh, rather than making a rather impractical suggestion of increasing the savings account withdrawal limit by over 8 times,“ said a government official.
 
 Second, RBI underlined that it was not possible for it to relax the withdrawal limits exclusively for candidates and that any such relief would have to be across-the-board. A rapprochement was reached in the RBI-EC standoff only after intervention by the PMO.
 
 The discussion between the RBI and EC brass lasted until afternoon and it was only after intervention at the highest level, guided by the Prime Minister’s Office, that a rapprochement was reached. So, while RBI fully dispensed with the weekly cash withdrawal limits for current accounts, EC agreed to advise candidates to open current accounts to defray poll expenditure up to the statutory Rs 28 lakh limit for UP, Punjab and Uttarakhand and Rs 20 lakh for Goa and Manipur. 
 
 “EC’s standing instructions asking candidates to open a separate bank account for poll expenditure do not specify whether it should be a current account or savings account. However, a majority of candidates used to open current account. Even in the current poll, all candidates in Goa are operating current accounts for poll expenses. With the latest RBI circular, the Commission will now advise candidates to open only current accounts for poll expenditure,” an official told TOI. 
 
 The RBI’s doing away of cash withdrawal limits on all types of bank accounts except saving account comes less than a week before the first phase of polling gets under way. Candidates may now make any amount of cash withdrawals from their ‘current’ accounts dealing with poll expenditure, rather than just Rs 2 lakh a week as suggested by EC.
 
