KOLHAPUR: The   (UGC)has asked all its affiliated universities across the country to revise the curricula at the earliest.

 The UGC, in a web circular on February 8, said the curricula of all   in universities should be reviewed and revised at least once in every three years.
 
 In the circular, UGC secretary   said, “In a world changing at breakneck speed, any conceptual innovations and technological breakthroughs are subjected to further alterations and up-gradation within a short span since their launch.” 
 
 He said, “In such a vibrant climate, the responsibility to address the needs created by self-activating change lies at the door of educational leaders, classroom teachers, academic administrators, and community leaders. One efficient way to fulfil these needs is periodic curriculum revision.”
 
 The circular added“The ever-enhancing needs of various quarters of society and culture can be addressed effectively when inter-disciplinarily of the programs offered by the university can be complemented effectively by a robust mechanism to revisiting and revision of curricula at regular interval.”
 
 According to the circular, in a meeting of group of secretaries on education and social development with the prime minister in the month of January, it was recommended that curricula of all academic departments in universities should be reviewed and revised at least once in every three years.
 
 This review and revision of academic curricula should focus on existing and potential demand and supply of skill sets to make the university/college students employable, it added.
 
 The UGC has instructed universities to accord top priority to the matter and take immediate action so that the curricula of various programs offered in the designated universities are revised and adopted for quick implementation.
 
 Talking about the decision, city-based education activist   said that it is one of the important decisions taken by the UGC in past few years and it will surely bring in latest knowledge for students.
 
 “The only difficult part will be its implementation. The UGC will need to keep a stricter eye on the execution of the decision. It is a positive step towards bringing change in the higher education,” he said.
 
 He added, “It is high time that our country must be recognissed across other countries for its world class education. Proper monitoring of students performance, circula is one of the basics to acheive the desired goal.”
 
