BENGALURU: The bill to amend the  , 1964, is expected to benefit about 4 lakh to 5 lakh   who have settled in roughly 4,000  , some of which are known as Lambani Tanda, Gollarahatti, Vaddarahatti, Kurubarhatti, Nayakarahatti, Majare Grama, Haadi, Doddi, Palya, Camp and Colony.

 Former chief minister   Urs introduced the historic law: “Tiller is the owner of land“ taking note of the exploitation that labourers and land tillers were subjected to in the early 1970s and 80s, that later brought revolutionary changes in land ownership in Karnataka.
 
 More than three decades later, chief minister Siddaramaiah, taking a cue from Urs, is set to implement another historic act: “Dweller is the owner of land“ ­­ bestowing land ownership rights on farm labourers residing outside the purview of revenue land.
 
 A bill to amend the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, 1961, and regularize dwelling places of landless agriculture labourers was unanimously passed by both houses of the legislature last week, and its now awaiting the governor's nod.
 
 Revenue minister Kagodu Thimmappa said it is the second landmark reform in post-Independence history of Karnataka. “While Urs made the tiller the owner of the land, Siddaramaiah plans to make landless dwellers the owners of land,“ he said.
 
 Thimmappa said a special cell had been formed to declare all human habitations as revenue villages, and deputy commissioners were empowered to issue ownership rights to agricultural labourers.
 
 Experts say the new act will go a long way in securing farm labourers by providing permanent homes. Prof. Na rendar Pani of the School of Social Sciences, National Institute of Advanced Studies, said the new law shouldn't be compared to Urs's land reforms policy as it's not reform, but merely a welfare scheme. He said it'll benefit a large section of farm labourers in North Karnataka, compared to the south, considering their population is much higher in the north.
 
 “It's a dream come true for farm labourers who did not have ownership rights of their land. By giving ownership rights, the government will make them realize that they are not only an integral part of the state but also respected citizens. It will facilitate development activities in their areas that includes drainage system, drinking water and electricity , among others,'' said C P Manjula, an agriculture scientist.
 
