Trichy: Unfazed by the threat from the illegal sand miners, residents of Thuraikudi village on the outskirts of Trichy detained three lorries loaded with sand taken from a torrent passing through the village in the early hours of Saturday. Later the revenue officials handed over the lorries to the Manikandam police. 

 It was around 4 am on Saturday when a resident of the village found a sand laden lorry moving in the area. The man had a close shave with the speeding lorry. Terrified by the speed, he informed other villagers about the incident.
 
 Enraged over the reckless driving and rude attitude of the illegal sand miners, the villagers came together and blocked the lorries. Sensing trouble the drivers fled the scene leaving behind the lorries. 
 
 On getting the information the revenue officials rushed to the spot. The villagers told the officials that the sand was mined from the torrent crossing Thuraikudi, Sengalakudi, Aavoor, Mathayanaipatti villages. The sand was covered with tarpaulin. They told the revenue officials that the sand miners operated between midnight and the early hours to avoid any interruption from the villagers. The sand miners even threatened the villagers with dire consequences. 
 
 Srirangam tahsildar M Shanmugam said the revenue department had posted a team to keep vigil in the area. “Recently we seized six such lorries in two incidents in the area. Then they changed the location for   in the same area. In today’s incident the villagers said that it has been going on for a long time. A special team has been entrusted with the task of keeping vigil on the sand mining operation,” Shanmugam told TOI. 
 
 The Manikandam police are investigating the case. 
 
 It may be recalled that two brothers were killed for informing the police about sand mining a few years ago in the area. 
 
 In another incident, the Srirangam police arrested N Vadivel, 28, from Palacode in Dharmapuri and E Raju from Sennathur in Krishnagiri for illegal sand mining in Kollidam River on Kallanai road in Trichy on Friday. The police also seized two lorries from them. 
 
 
