LUCKNOW | NEW DELHI: The   is poised for handsome gains in poll-bound   on account of the central government’s   drive, two senior leaders involved in election campaign told ET citing a survey conducted by the party.
 
  The survey was conducted from November 15 to December 15 to gauge public mood following the government’s decision to withdraw old Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes as legal tender, said one of the leaders, who did not wish to be identified. The elaborate survey entailed almost half an hour of interview with each participant, he said.
  
  “The survey suggested unbelievably overwhelming support for the demonetisation decision of Prime Minister  ,” the leader said about the preliminary findings of the survey.
  
  He said many senior people in the party wondered whether the survey presented the correct picture given media reports of massive inconveniences faced by the people.
  
  “In this backdrop, it was decided to enlarge the sample size by 20% to increase the number of voices in the survey even if it meant more cost. For this purpose, the survey period was extended till December 31, 2016,” he said.
  
  The nation-wide survey, consequently, had a sample size of 6.15 lakh persons across social, gender and age groups. “The results still showed overwhelming support for demonetisation,” the leader said. The second leader said the survey in UP involved 84,000 respondents.
  
  “It showed almost 91 per cent of respondents supporting demonetisation,” he said. “The rest complained about the inconveniences and hardships caused by the cash crunch that followed the demonetisation announcement.”
  
  Both the leaders hoped that the findings of the survey reflect BJP’s solid platform to leapfrog ahead of its rivals in UP.
  
  BJP chief Amit Shah referred to demonetisation while releasing the party’s manifesto in Lucknow on Saturday. “Notebandi ke baad yeh chunav ho rahe hain...Kale dhan ke khilaaf jo prahaar kiya hai, UP ki janata uska saath degi (This election is happening after demonetisation... The electorate of UP will lend its support to this strike against black money),” he said.
  
  Buoyed by the findings of the survey, the party is set to intensify its campaign after the presentation of the Union Budget on February 1, the leaders cited earlier said. 
