KOLKATA: As the day breaks, the followers of Vivekananda will assemble at his   on Thursday , ushering in his 154th   with   and songs.At least 50,000 visitors are expected to be gather there.

 Back in 2004, Rs 25 crore was spent to restore Vivekananda's ancestral property where a museum, a research centre, a memorial shrine, a library , a school of languages, computer training centre and a charitable dispensary were set up; an imposing statue of Vivekananda stands tall in front of the building on 4,000 sq ft. From there, a heritage walk will be flagged off by Swami Purnatmananda, secretary of   Swami Vivekananda's Ancestral House and Cultural Centre, on January 15. In 2013, chief minister   helped the organization acquire another property on the premises. “We will run a coaching centre for slum kids, a dispensary and a unit for yoga for boys from this building.We will set up an auditorium,“ said Swami Puramathanananda Maharaj, principal of the school of languages at Vivekananda's ancestral home.
 
  
  
 
 If the state honours the wishes of Ramakrishna Mission monks, the entire landscape might be redesigned to give it an “original and heritage“ look. “We went through the Calcutta high court archives to get the details of the property that belonged to his family . We want to appeal to the government for their acquisition,“ said Swami Puramathanananda. Very few know Vivekananda's forefathers lived where the General Post Office now stands. “That was much before Swamiji was born. After the British built their own structures in that area, his ancestors were given the plot that now houses the museum. It was like a forest. The adjoining areas had stables for horses of the family ,“ he said.
 
 In 1863, Vivekananda was born in the house that bears a plaque on the wall beside his memorial shrine on the museum terrace. It reads: “Following the unusual practice in those days, the birth of the divine child took place in this part of the open roof and inside a makeshift hut raised temporarily ...“. That apart, all the 36 rooms have been renovated.Each of the places have interesting stories associated with Vivekananda and plans are afoot to recreate everything: where he kept pets to the pond where he would duck to escape his mother's rebuke. But before that, the school of languages will start Arabic classes from April.
 
