NAGPUR: After recording a thumping win in the recently concluded   (NMC), outgoing mayor   sounded an alarm bell by stating that some tough decisions would be made regarding roads, transport and encroachments, to make Nagpur, a truly smart city.

 Interacting with the media on Saturday, on achievements by NMC under his tenure, he said the city is changing with a slew of reforms initiated by the civic body under the guidance of union minister   and chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. He was flanked by ruling party leader Sandip Joshi, senior corporator   and others.
 
 “The old body completed about 85-90% works mentioned in the old manifesto in its tenure. As we pass baton to the new body, a lot of challenges awaits them, considering the fact that Nagpur is chosen for the Smart City project. To make it a reality, some tough decisions have to be made regarding roads, transport and encroachments. Without citizens support, this dream wouldn’t be realized,” he said.
 
 Admitting that many grey areas like bad roads and encroachments are still remaining, he said they had made honest efforts on both fronts. 
 
 “We’ve undertaken a massive project of Rs300 crore of concretizing major roads in all parts of the city, which would be completed by 2019. There were some problems with   that lead to retendering of works and subsequent delay. We’ve completed roads of Rs100 crore. As far as encroachments are concerned, the encroachers come back even after removal. But we’re making honest efforts which was the reason, people reposed faith in us,” he said.
 
 The young leader said right from garbage to roads to water, the BJP-led coalition made strenuous efforts to provide best services. Even on the education front, they offered 75 acres to Pune-based Symbiosis International University for setting up its first campus in the city.
 
 He appealed to the citizens to bear with problems for some time regarding roads and other infrastructure. “Now, Amrut project pipelines would be laid in the city and Nag river rejuvenation work of Rs1,294 crore would start,” said Datke
 
 He said all problems regarding plying of Star buses was sorted out and on date about 182 of them are plying. “We will recover every penny from the VNIL and arbitrator has already been appointed. About 1.30 lakh white LED bulbs would be installed in the city before completion of year that would lead to saving of precious power.” 
 
 He exhorted that NMC would become best civic body in state, on account of spate of works it had either started or completed. “My dream of stating a full marathon for the city, which is its identity in big cities, remained unfulfilled along with that of single window system,” Datke said.
 
