NEW DELHI: Delhi chief minister  's plan to approach the   seeking a tally between votes recorded on EVMs and printed paper slips stored in drop-boxes of voter-verifiable paper audit trail ( ) machines used at 32 locations in Punjab may run into a stonewall. For, the option of verifying paper trail can be exercised either by an elector at the polling booth or by a candidate or his agent at the counting centre.

 If a match between EVM and VVPAT outcome is not sought at the time of polling or counting and the result is declared, the VVPAT trail may be sought only by filing an election petition in the High Court. Such a petition may be filed by any candidate or voter from that constituency.
 
 "With declaration of the results, which follows after all candidates or their agents affix their signatures on the result-sheet conveying their satisfaction with the counting process, the scrutiny and jurisdiction of the EC ends. The ball then gets lobbed into the high courts, which may adjudicate on an election petition filed against election of a candidate within 45 days of declaration of the result," said a senior EC officer.
 
 The officer wondered why   had chosen to challenge the accuracy of EVMs only now by seeking a count of votes recorded in the VVPAT unit. "At the time of voting, none of its diehard supporters of the party bothered to check the paper trail and point out any anomaly to the presiding officer. Even at the counting centre, the AAP candidates and agents did not seek a VVPAT count and signed on the result sheet without raising a contest," he noted.
 
 As per the EC manual on VVPAT system, in polling stations where VVPAT-enabled EVMs are used, the elector can view the name and symbol of the candidate he has voted for up to 7 seconds after voting, after which the paper slip gets cut and drops into the drop-box of the printer. If the elector claims the paper slip shows the name or symbol of a candidate other than who he had voted for, the presiding officer may take a written declaration from him. 
 
 Thereafter, the presiding officer will allow the elector to record a test vote in the EVM in presence of the candidate or his agent. If the anomaly is repeated and the allegation of the voter is found to be true, the presiding officer must report the facts to the returning officer and stop further recording of votes on the said EVM.
 
 At the time of counting too, after the entries are made in the result sheet, the candidate or his agent can apply to the returning officer to count the printed paper slips in the drop box of VVPAT machines. The returning officer may allow the prayer in part of in whole, and if there is an anomaly in EVM and VVPAT result, it is the latter which will be entered in the result sheet.
 
 
