HUBBALLI: While fires in the   have dominated recent headlines, a blaze on Friday night at Kappatagudda, home to medicinal plants, is worrying environmentalists and residents of Gadag district. Chief minister Siddaramaiah had withdrawn the conservation reserve tag to Kappatagudda in December 2016. 

  A fire was found raging in the forests of Beednal, Harogeri, Kalakeri, Shingatalur and Kelur villages in Mundargi taluk and residents of surrounding villages suspect the hand of vested interests at work. "We've been seeing unknown persons moving here suspiciously for the past two months. They are accompanied by some local persons," said a villager of Beednal on condition of anonymity. 
 
 Some villagers in Virupapur alleged that forest officials came around 10pm even though the fire was spotted at 7pm. "If we raise questions about the delay, they'll target us. Police and the windmill mafia too won't leave us alone after that," they said.
 
 However, Mundargi Range Forest Officer   said: "The fire was spotted between Beednal and   by 7pm. As soon as we got information about it, we reached there with fire personnel by 7.30pm. A team consisting of 25 forest staff and 25 fire personnel started dousing the blaze at Beednal. About 10-15 hectares of forest had caught fire and it ranged for 5km wide. The fire had started due to short circuits in windmills at some places and in one place, miscreants had caused it. The residents of surrounding villages extended their help to fight the fire and the situation was brought under control by 12.30am. The whole operation was concluded by 5am Saturday." 
 
  He confirmed that two first investigation reports (FIR) had been filed. "While one is against the company which installed the windmill at Beednal, the other is against the unknown persons who started the fire at one place," he said. 
 
  Siddhalinga Swamiji of Tontadarya Mutt, Gadag, said the incident is a conspiracy of those with windmill and mining interests. "About 12 sqkm of this area has precious plants which are over 100 years old. By destroying such trees, these interests, who are eyeing to grab their political interests, want to make it barren land. They should understand such efforts won't give fruitful results as people are well aware of such conspiracies," he said. 
 
 Shivanand Pattanshetti, an activist, alleged that though this area doesn't fall under the area notified for mining, some interests are burning the forest to grab it in the long run. "Though such 'accidental' forest fires are common here, the forest department has not put in place any permanent solution. They always pass it off as accidental. Officials should be held responsible for such fires," he said. 
 
  Ganesh Singh Byali, president,  , said forest fires have been common in hills since 4-5 years. "The conservation reserve tag was given after such incidents to protect the hills. The government's move to withdraw the tag has given the mining mafia a chance to destroy the hills," he said. 
 
