GURUGRAM: An infant died on Thursday due to sheer negligence of authorities in   in  . The three-month-old   boy was referred to   in Delhi due to his critical condition, but the   in which he was to be transported didn’t start due to some technical fault. The infant died waiting for the authorities to try fix the vehicle, instead of arranging another ambulance.

  was brought to the hospital around 9.30am. His father John told doctors the boy was unable to breathe since he took the morning feed. The family hails from Kerala and currently lives in Jharsa village.
 
 The infant was taken to the emergency ward, where Dr Kamaldeep suspected milk had got stuck in his windpipe, and noticed that his condition was already critical. Instead of giving medical aid, he referred Abel to AIIMS.
 
 There was only one ambulance available in the hospital at the time. Abel was settled in the ambulance and given oxygen. However, when the driver tried to start the vehicle, it didn’t respond. The staff fiddled with the vehicle, trying to fix it for up to 15 minutes. by sheer coincidence, another ambulance had arrived from the General Hospital in Sector 10 at that time. Around 10.20am, when Abel was shifted to the second ambulance, the staff noticed he was not responding. He was rushed back inside the hospital, where doctors declared him dead around 10.30am.
 
 A relative of the deceased told TOI, “The hospital spent too much time on paperwork. By the time it was cleared, it was 10am and precious time had been lost. They put the child inside the first ambulance, which was like a furnace in the scorching heat. Here, his condition worsened and he died.”
 
 The incident has resurrected persistent questions about General Hospital. Firstly, instead of attending to the child while the ambulance was arranged, the doctors did not give him any medical aid, despite the critical condition. A senior doctor on condition of anonymity told TOI, “Milk is a liquid. If the child was patted or made to burp, it could have helped, as this opens a passage in the windpipe and allows breathing.”
 
 Secondly, the health department has a fleet of 16 ambulances in Gurgaon, but only nine are in running condition. Even these are overused and ill-maintained. Thursday tragedy was a result of this laxity.
 
 Gurgaon deputy chief medical officer Dr Neelam Thapar told TOI, “The child was critical when brought in. The first ambulance had problem with its self start. But we did arrange for a second ambulance. Also, the first one has now been repaired. The entire episode took place over 10 minutes.”
 
 
