PATNA: The yearlong grand celebrations in Bihar to mark the centenary of Mahatma Gandhi’s Champaran satyagrah commenced on Monday with the two-day national conclave at Samrat Ashok International Convention Centre here. Though Bapu’s initial visits to Bihar primarily focused on farmers’ plight in Champaran (“It was Champaran that introduced me to India,” Mahatma Gandhi wrote in one of his letters to Mirabehn in 1921), Patna too has several memories of the father of the nation. TOI's   highlights a few places in Patna closely associated with Bapu:    Mahatma Gandhi had laid the foundation for Bihar Vidyapeeth on February 6, 1921 as an initiative under civil disobedience movement to boycott the British-run government institutions.    Deliberating on the origin of Bihar Vidyapeeth, Sheo Bansh Pandey, an educationist at the institution, said, “Following the commencement of civil disobedience movement in 1920, around 110 engineering students came to Sadaqat Ashram with Maulana Mazharul Haque, who had studied law with Gandhi in London. As several students were leaving schools and colleges run by the then British government, it was thought that an institution should be established for such students. Accordingly, Mazharul Haque gave a small piece of land owned by him at Sadaqat Ashram, where Mahatma Gandhi laid the foundation for Bihar Vidyapeeth in 1921.”    Pandey said a four-storied building recently came up on the said premises with an expenditure of Rs 4 crore, allotted by the central government.      Gandhi Shivir is located inside A N Sniha Institute of Social Studies at north Gandhi Maidan. Gandhi stayed for two months and 22 days at Gandhi Shivir in 1947 following communal riots around independence of the country.    As the years passed, the Shivir turned dilapidated due to negligence of authorities concerned. However, the state archaeology directorate took up the restoration work in 2014-15. A centre to impart studies on peace and non-violence was proposed to be developed at Gandhi Shivir.      According to Gandhian Razi Ahmad, Bapu used to hold his prarthana sabha (prayer meeting) at Gandhi Maidan during his visits to Patna between April 10, 1917 and August 9, 1947. “He used to walk down from the nearby Gandhi Shivir and sit at the spot where his new 70-feet statue has been erected,” said Razi.    The then Patna commissioner, Metcalfe, developed the current Gandhi Maidan as huge open ground in the heart of the state capital between 1813 and 1833. Interestingly, the government report of 1812 does not mention about the ground, but its reference can be found in one of the government’s reports of 1824.      Gandhi Sangrahalaya was established in 1967 as a unit of the Central Gandhi Sangrahalaya Samiti. After July 1971, it became an autonomous and a self-governing institution.    All the major events in the life of Mahatma Gandhi have been mentioned here. At least 12 rare photos of Bapu’s childhood have been preserved at the Sangrahalaya. There is also a section containing many rare photographs depicting various phases of Mahatma Gandhi’s life. A replica of his room is also placed in the hall.