VADODARA: He used to watch a popular crime detection show on television and the modus operandi showed in it inspired him to allegedly kill his wife near  . The   (LCB) of   arrested Mohammed Rafiq Iqbal Sheikh, a resident of Surat, over a year after he allegedly killed his wife   Sheikh in a moving train. 

 Sheikh was pregnant when she was murdered and thrown on a railway track between Vapi and   in April last year. 
 
 The police said that Sheikh was nabbed from Kolkata and brought to the city on a transit warrant. 
 
 “He had been on the run for last one year but we had stepped up the search for him over last few weeks. Sheikh was traced to Kolkata through his mobile phone. He was nabbed from a hotel near Howrah Bridge on the basis of his phone location,” said Sharad Singhal, western railway SP. 
 
 The team consisting of Sanjay Chauhan, Hitendra, Gaju, Mehul Dhobi and Mohammed Sadiq camped in Kolkata for 10 days. 
 
 According to the police, Parveen was Sheikh’s second wife and they used to fight often. “Sheikh had married a woman earlier and divorced her. Parveen was his second wife but they both too didn’t get along and fought often. In fact, he had separated from Parveen too but they got together after undergoing a counselling session. But Sheikh got into an affair with his first wife,” the police said. He wanted to get rid of Parveen so he hatched a plan to kill her. 
 
 “Sheikh got admitted to a government hospital in Surat in April last year. He then left the hospital for a few hours without intimating anyone. Sheikh boarded a train with Parveen from Surat. 
 
 He then strangled her in the moving train and threw her off on the railway track. Her body was found on the tracks in mutilated condition,” Singhal told TOI. Sheikh thought Parveen’s body won’t be identified by the police. 
 
 He then went back to the hospital as if nothing had happened. Sheikh also informed Parveen’s parents that she had gone missing and filed a complaint with the police in Surat. 
 
 The police found her body and initially thought that it was a case of accident. But the post mortem report revealed that she was strangled to death. The cops got suspicious of Sheikh after they learnt that he used to fight a lot with Parveen. When they went to the hospital to question him, they found out that he had fled. 
 
