PUNE/NAGPUR: The   of the   searched the clinics and homes of 11 prominent doctors on Saturday suspecting they were  .

 “They were not showing their full income and so we have begun searching their premises. It may or may not be related to demonetisation,” a senior tax official told TOI.
 
 In parallel searches across the state, eight other doctors’ premises were searched. They were planned on a Saturday so that surgeries and other procedures were not disturbed.
 
 The doctors from Pune include a leading gynaecologist, an orthopaedic, an in-vitro fertilization specialist, a paediatrician, two Ayurveda doctors, two cardiologists and three radiologists. The gynaecologist told TOI, “It was a routine inspection/ search and not a raid. In a raid, officials do not allow the searched carry out their business. In this case, we were allowed to do our work. We also co-operated with the authorities.”
 
 In Nagpur, officials searched premises of two neuro-physicians, a cardiologist and one of their managers. Searches were also conducted in Akola, Solapur, Kolhapur and Sangli.
 
 A source in the I-T department said they had received many complaints against these practitioners about expensive treatment at their hospitals. The complaints stated that patients were rarely given bills. Patients covered under government schemes were allegedly charged over the eligible amount. The excess amount was allegedly received in cash and not recorded in the books, said the source.
 
 A search, the source added, was a rare phenomenon. It is conducted only when tax officials double-check information and find it incriminating enough to warrant a search. “There is a lot of material on record before we go for a search operation… In this case, we have evidence of tax  ,” an official said.
 
 I-T officials were seen accumulating large stacks of documents at one of the clinics on Saturday evening. “Material we collect will be analysed and assessed. Then we will raise the demand for taxes,” the official said.
 
