GURUGRAM: Three housekeeping workers of an auto spare parts company near Hero   died of suffocation while trying to save one of their colleagues from drowning in the septic tank on Saturday morning. 

 The fourth worker, who fainted after inhaling poisonous gases while cleaning the tank, is battling for his life at a private hospital.
 
 Police have registered a case of negligence against Jai Auto Component Ltd in Khandsa village as 25-year-old  , who had climbed down in the septic tank to clean it, was not equipped with mask or any other safety gear, showing no lessons have been learnt from the spate of tragedies in Delhi, where some 2 people have died since July while cleaning sewers. 
 
 Manual scavenging is banned by law but continues nevertheless.
 
 Eyewitnesses said Vineesh got into the septic tank around 10.30 am but soon started choking on poisonous gases and began drowning. As he raised an alarm, his three colleagues — 25-year-old Rajkumar, 19-year-old Rinku and 40-year-old Nanhe — went in to rescue him. 
 
 Though they managed to push an unconscious Vineesh out of the tank, the trio got trapped. The four workers, all from UP, were engaged by two private contractors.
 
 “Vineesh was shouting for help and fearing the worst, a large crowd gathered there to attempt a rescue. First Rajkumar went in and then Rinku, but the duo got trapped. Then Nanhe entered inside and he too couldn’t get out. But they saved Vineesh,” said Ramesh Sahu, a company worker.
 
 The fire brigade was soon informed and after an hour’s labour, Rajkumar, Rinku and Nanhe were pulled out by rescuers. They were immediately rushed to a nearby hospital but declared brought dead. Vineesh is fighting for his life at the same hospital. Cops were, however, informed an hour later.
 
 The victim’s colleagues and families blamed the company for negligence. “Cleaning septic tank was not part of their duty, but Vineesh was sent in without any safety gear. There was no safety backup like medical aid and there was delay in calling the fire brigade,” said a colleague, who did not wish to be named.
 
 “The company’s negligence killed my husband and I want strict action again the top management. Had he and others got the right equipment or help in time, they would have been alive,” said Poonam, wife of Nanhe.
 
 On the complaint of Om Prakash, Rajkumar’s uncle, an FIR has been registered against the company management under sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and 34 (common intention) of IPC at Sector 37 police station. However, no one has been arrested yet.
 
 “Prime facie, the deaths were the result of negligence. The workers were not equipped with masks or any other safety gear. The company also informed us late as we got information after 11.30 am while the incident took place at 10.30 am. We are investigating the matter,” said inspector Amit Kumar, SHO of Sector 37 police station.
 
 Despite several attempts, company manager   could not be contacted.
 
 
