BHANGAR: Anxiety is writ large on her dazed face. The three-and-a-half-year old toddler ­ a kindergarten student ­ hasn't even changed her white school uniform. With a bandaged toe, she has one answer for the reporters, “Amar maa hariye geche (my mother has gone missing).“ Little Nargis's mother, Mahiram, is among the 16 reportedly missing after sporadic clashes with police on Tuesday .   remains a powder keg on Wednesday .

 The nearly three-kilometer stretch leading to the   (POWERGRID) sub-station -that witnessed the flare-up -is seething in anger. Roads are blocked with chopped logs. Once these were removed, half-torn police uniforms littered roadside, two razed police vehicles, three others in a roadside pond, broken window panes and ransacked rooms bore evidence of the clashes. Every house had a complaint to make against police ­ and Trinamool strongman Arabul Islam.Capping it perhaps, is a police wardi displayed on a roadblock alongside a poster reading: “Elakar shanti chai. POWER GRID bandho chai (We want peace. Stop POWER GRID project).“
 
 Oppostion leaders, namely Md Selim and Sujan Chakraborty of CPM and Adhir Chowdhury of Congress, made a beeline to Bhangar to make most of the anger the day after. Taking the cue, CM in a high-level meeting at Bhawani Bhavan cautioned the police against excesses. But Mamata isn't in amood to spare the instigators. She in structed police to book those “quietly working behind-the-scenes“. Accordingly, party vice-president Mukul Roy, Bidhannanagar Municipal Corporation mayor Sabyasachi Dutta, Arabul and nearly 500 agitated flagbearers shied away from reaching out to agitators.
 
 With the police beating a retreat on Tuesday much to the anger of lower ranks, sources said, the key to police action will be the “timing“. Even as ADG (law and order) Anuj Sharma insisted, “There was no police firing.The police didn't fire a single shot.“
 
 There seemed to be few takers. Sk Samsul Haq, the Trinamool leader and the face of the agitation (whose detention triggered the protests), said, “It is wrongly being construed that we are anti-government. We rever  . Our agitation is against nepotism. Against sycophancy . We want the CM's intervention before it is too late.“ POWERGRID on Wednesday has solicited cooperation from all stakeholders. “This substation is created with a State-ofthe-Art Gas Insulated Switchgear Technology , which is a proven technology with more than 5000 High Voltage GIS Installations world-wide already in use; including in developed countries like Japan, UK, China, Russia, USA etc.“
 
 Mamata meets Pranab in city
 
  Mamata Banerjee met President   at Raj Bhawan on Wednesday. Though there was nothing official about the meeting, while coming out after 30 minutes, a seemingly agitated Mamata reacted to the media query: “Ki ar bolbo? (What to say?)“ Mamata has been constantly demanding the President's mediation on the Centre's “interference into the state's jurisdiction“.
 
