NAGPUR: Despite tall claims of   and going   to transform Nagpur in to a Smart City, NMC’s official website presents a  . 

 The NMC’s official website continues to provide outdated information and wrong contact numbers. It has not been updated since the past one month and continues to show Pravin Datke as Nagpur mayor though   became the city’s First Citizen on March 5.
 
 Though the main page still displays Pravin Datke’s photo along with municipal commissioner  , the deliberate wing page carries the updated information, which is still incomplete. 
 
 The website displays only two posts of additional municipal commissioner though the posts were updated with three seniors Ravindra Kumbhare, Rizwan Siddiqui and Ramnath Sonawane. 
 
 The NMC’s information technology wing and public information department have not bothered to update the progress of several works.
 
 According to officials, the NMC website was maintained by a private firm IT Craft. Officials said that the NMC has been paying about Rs3 lakh per month for updating and maintaining the website.
 
 Even the contact numbers of many officials is incorrect. For example, information about Pramod Bhusari, who was transferred, has not been updated. Even the names of some officials like health officer Dr Savita Meshram, executive engineer Shyam Chavan, who have retired, continue to be on the website.
 
 The NMC’s online portal has been facing flak from users for some time now over its ineffectiveness. People said it lacks clarity; unavailability of useful information; errors in major sections of the website; delayed or no response to the complaints; and no updated data.
 
 The question that has vexed citizens and NGO’s alike is that Parivartan — The Citizens’ Forum, which boasts to make Nagpur a Smart City, cannot come up with a suitable online service.
 
 The NGO’s secretary and activist Dinesh Naidu claimed that complaints filed on the portal are often removed without any reply or reason, “It asks you to fill several fields of information which is time consuming.” He also said that the portal does not reflect the description of work orders issued by the NMC; Instead, he said, “There should be a form of narration about the work order, which would give more clarity about where the money is being spent.”
 
 RTI activist Amol Sakure said the NMC should also add contact details of corporators.
 
 A senior official from NMC’s general administrative department promised to look into the matter.
 
 
