MUMBAI: S ward will be dominated by women corporators, as nearly 80% seats spread across 14 electoral wards here have been reserved for the fairer sex. It is a huge leap from 2012, when women representation was just 25% in the ward.

 “Since 11 electoral wards here have been reserved for women (high, compared to other wards), some contestants will be wives of sitting corporators or political activists,” said corporator Suresh Koparkar (Congress), adding that his wife, Asha, will be contesting. She has been visiting slum pockets to garner support. “I am looking at core problems faced by locals, from garbage to sanitation/toilets and proper roads,” she said.
 
 Of the 11 constituencies, seven are reserved for women from the open category (109-113, 116, 120), three for OBC women (117, 119, 122), and one for an SC woman candidate (121). Some female candidates have been corporators before, like Bharati Pisal, who is contesting from Bhandup (E) on an NCP ticket, has been a corporator from 2007-12 and is the wife of sitting corporator, Dhananjay.
 
 Only three wards are in the general category, and one of them is likely to witness a bitter battle between former  , who defected from MNS to BJP few days back, and Jayant Dandekar (MNS), who is a grassroots activist for three decades handpicked by Raj Thackeray to contest from Kannamwar Nagar constituency in Vikhroli. The seat had faced a direct fight between Sena and MNS, but this time it could be three-cornered, with BJP pitching for Sangle.
 
 The Sena is trying to regain its ground as it had lost to MNS in few constituencies in the past two elections. “There is a sizeable population of Marathi Manoos (and mostly from slums and chawls), and these votes are likely to swing towards Sena,” said Bhandup MLA Ashok Patil, whose wife is contesting on a Sena ticket.
 
 Patil said one of the most important issues during campaigning will be “removal of bottlenecks on the arterial  , which passes through this ward”. Another pressing issue is the   in Kanjur Marg, a health hazard for thousands of nearby residents.
 
 BJP candidate Mangesh Sangle said he had the support of locals who were happy with his previous stints as corporator and MLA.
 
 Activists have demanded that   reconstruct the LBS Marg stretch in Bhandup. The roads are uneven, with caved-in paver blocks, potholes and broken dividers, besides encroachments by shops/commercial establishments and illegal parking by tempos. BMC sources said there was a plan to convert LBS Marg from four-lane to six-lane. It, however, requires demolition of several structures, 80% of which are commercial, and some of them moved courts.
 
 The dumping ground in Kanjur Marg is another major concern. Environmental activist D Stalin said, “Students of Udayachal high school in Vikhroli can’t beart the stench in classrooms. The dumping ground has been filled beyond capacity and has led to air pollution and health problems.” He said the malaria menace can be curbed by preventing sewage from entering salt pans along Eastern Express highway.
 
 Activists demanded more toilets in slums to prevent open defecation, construction of at least 10 hospitals, preservation of open spaces, lost due to encroachments by slums and chawls, and deployment of guards at FOBs near the IIT main market, IIT main gate and Panch Kutir in Powai, as well as the skywalk near Bhandup station to ensure security. Elsie Gabriel of Young Environmentalists Programme Trust said corporators need to maintain Powai lake and ensure its cleant regularly, else there was danger of the lake shrinking. “There should also be security at the lake to prevent trespassing and proper signage,” she added.
 
 I never lobbied for ticket, says 3-ft tall candidate
 
 Do not judge him by his height. For three-foot tall Jayant Dandekar, it is the nickname ‘Mr Dependable’ which keeps him going. “I never tire and work 24x7. Be it anything, from a power cut to water supply problem, ambulance or arranging for blood donation, Kannamwar residents know they can rely on me for assistance. Main Hu Naa (I am always there)... I am single and do not have to bother about looking after a family. My neighbourhood is one big family,” the 53-year-old told TOI. He was surprised when his party offered him a seat.
 
 Dandekar has been associated with Shiv Sena and now MNS for nearly 30 years. “I was active since my student days and deep down in my heart, I am a social worker. I have never lobbied for party posts or election tickets,” he said, adding that his height has never been a handicap.
 
 A few days back, MNS received a jolt when senior party functionary Mangesh Sangle, accepted a BJP ticket from Kannamwar Nagar. 
 
 “I have no big financial means. I will fight rich opponents, but my strength lies in goodwill generated among locals over the years,” he said, adding that he will not criticize anyone in his speeches, but will only talk about positive developments/plans.” 
 
 
