CHENNAI: In a major setback to the AIADMK (Amma) faction days before the   scheduled for April 12, income tax sleuths raided 35 premises belonging to state health minister C Vijayabaskar, his relatives and associates in Chennai, Trichy and Pudukottai districts on Friday. The searches, which started at 6am following a tip-off about Vijayabaskar's involvement in cash distribution in RK Nagar, was expected to continue all through Friday night, said I-T officials. 

 Raids were conducted also on the premises of actor Sarath Kumar, former AIADMK MP   and MGR Medical University vice-chancellor S Geethalakshmi. Interestingly,   had met AIADMK (Amma) candidate T T V Dhinakaran and extended support to him on Thursday.
 
  In all, 4.5crore in cash and documents relating to transfer of 89 crore to Vijayabaskar's lieutenants for distribution to voters in R K Nagar were seized in Chennai, said officials. However, no cash was seized from Vijayabaskar's official residence on Greenways Road. Officials said they found documents relating to the money trail at the houses of the minister and his personal secretary J Srinivasan in Valasaravakkam, besides some rooms in MLA Hostel. 
 
 The official said, “The minister and his associates were on our radar since the raids on sand mining baron J Shekhar Reddy in December last year. But the immediate reason for the raids were his links in the trail of R K Nagar bypoll funding."
 
 “We had reasons to believe that Vijayabaskar was an important link in the money distribution in RK Nagar. Evidence, which included copies of electoral rolls, shows that the party had plans to bribe 85% of voters in the constituency."
 
 CRPF personnel provided security at all the places where searches were conducted.
 
 “Out of the '4.5 crore cash seized,' 3.5 crore was from Nainar Mohammed, a close associate of the minister, at Triplicane. The remaining money was seized from the minister's financial consultant Kalpesh Shah in Kilpauk," he said.
 
 In Pudukottai district, raids were carried out at five locations including the minister's residence, a stone quarry and educational institutions run by his family members.
 
 A 50-member I-T team conducted the raids as 30 armed paramilitary personnel stood guard.
 
 I-T officials said they had brought Sarath Kumar under their scanner after they gathered proof of what transpired at a dinner meeting he had with T T V Dhinakaran and Vijayabaskar on Thursday night.
 
 “We had specific information about Rajendran also," said the official.
 
 Raids on Geethalakshmi was not connected to the RK Nagar byelection.
 
 “In the past, as director of medical education, she had indulged in major financial irregularities. Vijayabaskar is also suspected to be involved in those cases," said the official.
 
 The raids have put a question mark on the bypoll.
 
 (With inputs from K Sambathkumar in Trichy)
 
