He may have played a cop several times in his film journey of 42 years (he started off as a child artiste), but each time   is offered a chance to don the khaki onscreen, he makes sure it is because the character and story excites him. As he gets set to reprise his most popular role —   from the 1996 hit Police Story — the actor is excited not just because he gets to play DIG this time, but because even while starring in the original   film,  , he wanted to be in the   remake. The Dialogue King lets us in on all this and more…

 
 
 I was excited. I starred in the original (the Telugu film Pataas) and thought that Manju’s script was new — it tells the power of the police in a different manner. In Police Story, there was no heroine, songs or comedian, but it went on to become a cult film even at a time when masala flicks were commonplace.  , I think, will be another Police Story, but it is packaged in a commercial and entertaining fashion, which is the need of the hour. There is also a beautiful message in it.
 
 
 
 For the first time, I play a character with a lot of depth in his feelings. He is conscious about his duty and loves being a cop. He wants to serve people — he always says, ‘duty first and family next’. This was the sentiment in Police Story as well. In fact, there is a dialogue, “Police officerge sentiment irbardu; sentiment idre, police officer irbardu (a police officer shouldn’t have sentiments; if he has sentiments, he shouldn’t be a police officer).” Many real-life cops have inspired me. I wanted to become an IAS officer and did an MPhil in Public Administration, because I wanted to do something for society, and I have carried this forward into films as well. Cinema is a great influencer, which is why I am careful about what I say in my films. Even when I essay a negative character, there will always be a certain situation that explains what made the person do something bad.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 I belong to a family of actors; acting is in my blood. Even after 42 years in the industry, any film invokes a lot of excitement and I always look forward to doing good movies and experimenting. After Police Story, there was no looking back for me. From then on, every character I have essayed has excited me. I have played a police officer in many films, but the ranks have changed. So, I have played a constable, head constable, sub inspector, inspector, and so on; in Pataki, I am a DIG. If I start to feel, ‘oh, I am getting the same police character’, and start to get bored, then, as an actor, I die.
 
 
 
 After hearing the Telugu script, I wanted it to be remade into Kannada to be my son Aadi’s Sandalwood debut. I had approached my friend and producer   for this. But Aadi was apprehensive, as he thought that the role was too big for a debut. So, when Babu sir told me that he had picked Ganesh, I was surprised at first. I liked his work in Mungaru Male, but since he was playing a cop for the first time, I was worried if he could carry out what was required of him in the second half of the film. In the first half, he is entertaining, even as a cop, but in the second half, there is a scene with him and me that is the heart of the film, at which the story takes a big turn. It required a powerful Ganesh, which I was doubtful about, but when we were on set, I was sure that it was a challenge that he could take on. He has done a great job. In fact, I can see myself in Ganesh as a police officer. I think that after this film, people will start seeing Ganesh as an action hero.
 
