Surat:  

 If the implementation of Goods and Service Tax (GST) has snatched away peace of traders in diamond and textile sectors, failed promises with regard to big ticket projects have dampened the spirits of common Surtis ahead of the festive season. 
 
 Suresh Prabhu during his visit to the city as Union railway minister in February had announced the launch of high-end Tejas train between Surat and Mumbai. During his public speech at Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI), Prabhu had stated, “I have come to Surat for the first time. I am told it is Surti tradition to gift something to the city. Hence, I am happy to announce the launch of Tejas train between Surat and Mumbai.”
 
 The Tejas train was supposed to run from April. Days after Prabhu’s visit, the Tejas train was allotted on Pune-Mumbai sector. Western Railway (WR) authorities stated that Tejas train was not viable to run between Surat and Mumbai. 
 
 A dream of a world-class railway station was shown to the residents by Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) three years ago. The work began at a rapid pace in the first year and even a memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed in the presence of Prabhu and officials of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) and Gujarat State Road Transport Corporation (GSTRC). 
 
 Now, with the change of guard at the railway ministry, the talk is on developing a Multi-Modal Transport Hub (MMTH) on engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) basis. The ground breaking ceremony is to be held by this Diwali, which looks unlikely. 
 
 Union minister of state for civil aviation Jayant Sinha had announced an international airport for the city during his visit in April. The Airports Authority of India (AAI) had sent the proposal for customs notified status for Surat airport to Central Board of Excise and Customs (CBEC) in November 2016. Navsari MP C R Paatil, on two occasions, announced the launch of international operations between Dubai and Surat in May and October 15. However, international flight operation is not likely to be see the light of the day any time soon. The central government is yet to accord customs notified status to Surat airport.
 
 “Surat has a population of 60 lakh, still we are deprived of international air connectivity and a world-class railway station. Ministers make tall promises and go,” civic rights activist Rajesh Modi said. 
 
 A civic body officer said, “We have spent lakhs of rupees carrying files of many projects to Delhi and Gandhinagar for discussions. But, discussions are yet to materialize. The reason is our local representatives have no voice.” 
 
 
