NAGPUR: State energy minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule has come to the rescue of residents of   in   and nearby areas, above which the 33 KV Nara-Mankapur HT power line passes. Bawankule has directed MSEDCL to prepare an estimate for shifting the line from inhabited areas.

 Just a week ago, Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) Ashi Nagar zone had issued eviction notices to residents of the township’s 18 row houses, asking them to vacate in five weeks. The zone was planning to demolish the houses. The trigger for this had been the electrocution deaths of 11-year-old twins Priyansh and   while playing on the terrace of one of these houses.
 
 After running from pillar to post for getting relief, residents finally approached Bawankule. In a meeting held at NMC on Thursday afternoon, the minister gave an assurance that the line would be shifted.
 
 MSEDCL sources told TOI that the company already had a proposal ready. “Around 4.2km of the line will have to be shifted from Sugat Nagar and other affected areas. The estimated cost is Rs3.5 crore,” they said.
 
 TOI learnt that the minister will arrange funds for the shifting work. “He will try all possible sources to get the work done,” sources added.
 
 Meanwhile, the two former officials of NMC’s town planning department who were arrested in the case, were released on bail on Wednesday evening. The township’s builder Anand Khobragade is also out on bail and the case might go into cold storage.
 
 While   police arrested the junior staffers, it did not take any action against the then assistant director of town planning Sujata Kadu, who had been warned about the danger posed by the HT line to human lives. Kadu is presently deputy director of town planning (DDTP) in Nagpur Improvement Trust’s (NIT) metro region office.
 
 As reported by TOI earlier, land owner Arvind Meshram had submitted a complaint to Kadu on April 6, 2009, urging her to raze the illegal construction since it was under a HT line. “A labourer at the construction site had received a shock from this HT line on March 27, 2009. I have lodged a police complaint in this regard,” the letter stated.
 
 Meshram told TOI that he submitted a complaint about the same at Jaripatka police station but no action was taken against Kadu. Despite repeated attempts, Jaripatka senior police inspector Uttam Mulak, deputy commissioner of police Zone V Krishnakant Upadhyay, and commissioner of police K Venkatesh did not respond to TOI’s calls.
 
 Bawankule’s office had provided a letter to TOI, which showed that Kadu was aware of the line and had asked Khobragade to shift it out of the township. As per norms, the builder was supposed to pay MSEDCL to shift the HT line outside his layout.
 
