NEW DELHI: At least 487   and teachers and residents of a colony in Tughlaqabad fell sick on Saturday after   emanating from a liquid (2-Chloro-5-chloromethylpyridine) that leaked from a container truck parked at a nearby depot.

 Most of them reported   and on the skin. Some others reported vomitting.
 
 Personnel from the   cordoned off the area and took measures to neutralise the effect of the leak. Later, a team from NDRF's nuclear, biological and chemical disposal unit reached the scene and covered the liquid with salt to cut off the fumes.
 
 The school had to be closed for the day. “We initially thought it was an LPG leak. Officials from the container depot told us soon afterward that it was chemical leak,“ said a teacher. It was a strong pungent smell, similar to the one coming from toilet cleaners. Soon, there was irritation in our eyes and skin as it happens with tear gas. It could have led to serious health hazards if the children were exposed to it further,“ said Payal Sharma, a resident of the railway colony nearby , who was also admitted to a hospital.
 
 Police said that a total of 487 victims were taken to hospital till afternoon. “We have registered a case under sections 278 (making atmosphere noxious to health), 284 (negligent conduct with respect to poisonous substance), 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 337 (causing hurt) of IPC against unidentified people. A team has been sent to track down the container truck,“ said a senior police officer.
 
 Police officers said that 119 children were initially admitted to ESIC Hospital in Okhla. Apart from them, 63, including nine teachers, were taken to Batra Hospital. Of them, 43 students and teachers were discharged later.Another batch of 225 child ren was admitted to Majithia Hospital while the rest were taken to AIIMS Trauma Centre and Apollo Hospital.
 
 According to the cops, the container truck, bound for a factory in Sonipat, had been parked at the depot for the past three days during which a drum containing chemicals had started leaking. “There were several workers at the depot who started falling ill due to which we requested our employers to ensure that the formalities at the customs department is completed and the container is allowed to leave for its destination. Finally, it was allowed to leave on Friday night,“ said Satish Kumar, an employee of the depot. “It seems that one of the barrels containing the chemical was not properly sealed, leading to the spill,“ said a depot official.
 
 Police said that the container was brought to India from China by road and later it was parked at Tughlaqabad depot for customs clearance.
 
 
