PUNE: The ‘meet and greet’ service started with much fanfare at the   has failed to attract passengers. The Mumbai-based company, which runs the service, is now thinking of ways to rope in customers.

 “Started in October last year, the service has failed to generate adequate response from passengers. The   includes helping passengers, especially senior citizens or those carrying a lot of luggage, to travel through the   without any hassle and that too at nominal charge. On an average, we cater to 40 people daily which is not enough considering the cost we have put in to run the facility. Though we are thinking about some new steps to boost the business, we need the help of airport authorities,” Neeraj Chaudhary, assistant manager,  , told TOI on Thursday. An initiative of the  , the service is part of the plan to increase passenger amenities at the airport.
 
 “We don’t understand the reasons behind the poor response. The airport might be smaller but in terms of growth, it is among the best. We have a team of 15 porters. There is a counter right in front of the terminal building. We have also tried to advertise about the service. If we get help from the airport authorities for better advertising of the service, some of the issues can be taken care of,” the official pointed out.
 
 Sources said with the airport in an expansion mode and the e-visa facility expected to start soon, the service could get a boost. “It is a matter of concern that the service is not attracting people though it has been designed to assist passengers. However, we feel it will start attracting people once the airport expansion work is completed . The   airport has witnessed a growth of 23% and with the expansion, the number of passengers will also increase,” an airport official said. 
 
 Company representatives said they too were trying to increase the ambit of their services. “We are planning to reach out to various hotels first. They can inform their guests about the service at the airport. We are also planning to go online enabling passengers to book our service in advance,” Chaudhary said.
 
 
