VELLORE: The state government on Saturday extended the ordinary leave of  , a life convict in the  , by one month.

 The government has considered the petition submitted by   on September 19, pleading Tamil Nadu Chief Minister   to extend the ordinary leave granted to her son for another 30 days citing her husband A Gnanasekaran’s health condition. She also stated that the presence of her son would help their family to regain its health, in particular his father.
 
 The government, after careful examination of the request of the Arputham, have decided to extend the ordinary leave. Accordingly, under sub-rule (2) of rule 22 of the Tamil Nadu Suspension of Sentence Rules 1982, the government of Tamil Nadu, hereby extends the ordinary leave for A G Perarivalan for further period of 30 days from the date of expiry of the earlier spell of the ordinary leave, the government order says.
 
 The first spell of ordinary leave ends on Sunday (September 24). The same conditions – shall not participate in public and political, stay at his house, should surrender himself before the Superintendent of Prison, Vellore on expiry of leave, reside at his house and report to nearby police station daily- were applicable.
 
 A senior official in the Vellore Central Prison for Men, where Perarivalan was undergoing imprisonment, said that they have received an official communication from the Additional Director General of Police (Prisons) by email. “The ordinary leave for Perarivalan has been extended till October 24,” said the official.
 
 The ADGP (Prisons) has been directed to submit a report to the government every Monday regarding the compliance of the prisoner during the leave period.
 
 Thanking the government for extending the parole for his son, Gnanasekaran told TOI that he was happy after they learned about the government’s decision. “After 26 years, my son came home. But the days passed quickly and we desperately him amidst us for more days. It happened.”
 
 Friends, family members, well-wishers and leaders of political parties have been coming to meet Perarivalan since he returned home on August 24, he said, adding, “I had very little time with my son. But I am very happy to see him all through the days talking to his friends. The very presence of my son gave me the strength to regain my health,” said the septuagenarian.
 
 Calling the extension of leave as a positive gesture of the government and it would give more confidence to them to win the freedom of his son, he added. “Hundreds of people met my son here and everyone wanted to see him a free man. It gave us a new hope and strength to win back his freedom soon,” he further said.
 
