HYDERABAD: Seven months after the Telangana government bulldozed hundreds of trees on the   (UoH) campus, to make space for nearly one lakh saplings being planted as part of the Haritha Haram initiative, more than half of these saplings have died, say students.

 “Nearly 60% of the saplings planted on campus have died now. The reason is a clear lack of maintenance. When the plantation drive was carried out in July 2016, authorities had promised that these saplings would be properly taken care of. Why were so many trees and shrubs, which provided shelter to animals, razed to the ground only to plant saplings which have now died due to the state government's negligence?" asked Ravi Jillapalli, founder of   group that hopes to protect wildlife on campus.
 
 When contacted, university authorities blamed members of the Confederation of   Developers' Association of India (CREDAI), under whose Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiative, the project was carried out.
 
 “Recently, a special officer from the chief minister's office visited the campus to take stock of the situation. Authorities have now instructed CREDAI members to take care of the existing saplings and replace the ones that have died with new saplings of the same species,“ said Vipin Srivastava, provice chancellor 1and the official spokesperson of UoH.
 
 For their part, university officials said only few saplings had died. Thukaram Porika, deputy registrar of UoH and the staff in-charge of overseeing the maintenance of saplings, said, “Only 10% of the one lakh saplings have died, a mortality rate observed in any plantation drive. The main reason for this is the type of soil these saplings were planted in and the acute shortage of water on campus.“ The university has now given CREDAI permissions to dig borewells.
 
 In contrast to Porika's claims, Priyanka Varghese, officer on special duty ( ) at the CM's office and in-charge of monitoring the Haritha Haram project at UoH, pegged the number of saplings that have died as being higher, but added, “A 25% mortality rate is a decent figure, considering over 1 lakh saplings were planted."
 
 Varghese, visited the UoH campus around two weeks ago and issued instructions to CREDAI members to replace the saplings with new ones and make arrangements for adequate water. It is after her visit that a water sump was created near the plantation stretch, in order to draw water from the adjoi ning Nallagandla lake.
 
 Admitting that inadequate care was taken of the saplings, M V Rajeshwar Rao, CEO, CREDAI, said, “the unexpected intrusion of wild boars and cattle at the campus also destroyed plants. Now we have galvanised the whole system. In addition to the water sump, we have also identified and marked spots for digging four borewells. The entire stretch will be revived in 20 days."
 
