SURAT: Textile traders, who wanted to open their shops on the 12th day of their indefinite strike against Goods and Services Tax (GST) on Friday, were prevented by mobs at Raghukul, STM, Millennium, Abhishek and a few other textile markets in the city. 

 The mobs comprised of groups of around 50 people each. Each group moved around the textile markets on  , Salabatpura and   to see if any trader was trying to open his shop. 
 
 The groups were shouting slogans against Union finance minister Arun Jaitley and Navsari MP CR Paatil. They were also shouting slogans against pro-GST traders who had approached city police seeking security for opening their shops on Saturday. 
 
 Meanwhile, Textile Yuva Brigade (TYB) volunteers visited all major textile markets on Ring Road and told market managements that they will register their strong protest against the shop owners who wanted to open their shops under police protection. 
 
 Devkishan Managhani, textile trader and former president of Federation of   Traders’ Association (FOSTTA), said, “We are concerned about anti-social elements joining our agitation. We are also concerned about our business colleagues who are keen to open their shops. Big traders are playing a divide and rule politics and this will only worsen the situation.”
 
 Lalit Sharma, member of TYB, said, “If the traders want to open their shops, they are most welcome. But, they should think of the rest of their community members who are still standing firm against the GST. We will not clash with the police, but will give the traders some money and food as a part of our protest.”
 
 Meanwhile, Surat Textile Market (STM) management on Ring Road issued a communication to all the traders having shops in the market asking them to reach there at around 9:30am on Saturday. The market will reopen as the police authorities have given the management an assurance of extra deployment of the personnel there. 
 
 “The traders at STM market will arrive at 9:30am and open their shops. We will open the shops and continue our agitation for simplification of the GST. We can’t compromise on our business,” said a textile trader at STM.
 
 
