Pune: When former President Pratibha Patil failed to find a nursing assistant in time for her ailing relative, she thought of how others could be dealing with the dearth.

 This was followed by a series of sessions with experts in the field and internet research to get on board like-minded doctors that helped design a crash course in basic healthcare for every individual.
 
 Slated for its launch on May 1 in the city, the six-month course — Home Remedy Plan — will be conducted by Sancheti Institute for Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation.
 
 The course aims to train individuals in basic home-based care thereby generating employment.
 
 “I had seen projects in Rajasthan and Maharashtra where the rural populace is trained in basic healthcare so they could offer first aid and basic healthcare services in times of need. If the people in country’s rural parts can be given such training, the same can be done for their urban counterparts,” said Patil.
 
 Pointing out the hefty fees charged in cities she said, “Various nursing bureaus in urban areas charge exorbitantly for such home-based care. So, we designed a course that will not only enable individuals to treat and support themselves and their relatives but also churn out healthcare assistants who will provide home-based nursing to ailing people at affordable rates,” Patil said.
 
 Senior orthopaedic surgeon K H Sancehti of Sancheti hospital said, “The course gives a better understanding on how to take care of ailing persons and support them by providing timely medication, physiotherapy, diet and other basic nursing services. It will also train in preparing healthy meals for patients.”
 
 The course will offer employment opportunities at private hospitals, nursing homes, old age homes and day care centers that are reeling with shortage of skilled nursing staff.
 
 “The course is open to those interested in educating themselves about methods and ways to take care of their family and offering basic care to others,” said Manisha Sanghavi, executive director of Sancheti Healthcare Academy.
 
 Gallantry Medical and Education Trust has come forward to motivate people join the course. Shamla Desai, founder and secretary of Gallantry Medical and Education Trust said, “The training will be focussed on handling first-aid and medical emergencies.”
 
 
