The Portuguese era has invariably left its imprint on Goa’s culture and architecture, in particular on Goan architecture, which has absorbed varied influences over the years to produce a unique blend of styles. The Portuguese ornamental tile art, ‘azulejos’, is a vivid example of this blend. Not only have they been harmoniously infused into local Goan architecture and interiors, but are experiencing resurgence after a long hiatus.
Reinventing an art they borrowed from the Moors, Portugal’s colonies, particularly Goa, incorporated ethnic designs like peacocks, local flowers and Hindu religious symbols. Inlay or decorative panels frequently depicting historical narratives were the norm. The hallway at Institute Menezes Braganza in   offers one striking example.
 The panels on either side at the entrance depict the exploits of Portuguese explorers as narrated by the celebrated poet Luis de Camoes in his famous work, ‘Os Lusiadas’. While one panel portrays King Manuel on horseback bidding farewell to Portuguese explorer Vasco da Gama, another depicts the latter in the court of the Zamorin of Calcutta. Two others depict a sea-monster and frolicking 
 sea-nymphs. 
 St Augustine’s Tower at Old Goa and two schools — one at Canacona and the other at   — also house large impressive panels. Similarly, beautiful samples of biblical themes and the Portuguese incursion into Goa are seen at St Anthony’s Church and a chapel in Chinchinim at   and  , respectively.
 Imbuing various aspects of this fine glazed art into their interiors in the form of inlay tiles on tables, cabinets, drawers, chairs and other furniture and name plates on gate posts, several Portuguese-era mansions are witness to this popular decorative trend of the past.
 However, with the advent of new art forms, the art of azulejos took a backseat. But it has made a comeback and how. The director of Azulejos de Goa, Orlando de Noronha, is credited with reviving it in 1998, making it immensely popular not only in Goa, but beyond. “I was fascinated by this art so vibrantly practised in Portugal on my visit to the place on a music scholarship. I was keen to re-introduce this art to Goa. What I did not envisage was how popular it would become,” says Noronha.
 Moving from their traditional expressions to more contemporary versions, these customized tiles are now catering to every taste. “For those who are aware of Portuguese culture or have visited Portugal, the preference is for classic blue and white shades as well as yellow and brown. Goans form a bulk of this group. Non-Goans prefer more contemporary colours and themes,” says Noronha. 
 “Goans prefer the heritage look fused with Goan architecture. While churches opt for biblical themes, Catholic homes choose Goan themes and religious figures like St Anthony, St Thomas and Our Lady. Mario Miranda’s cartoons are another popular choice for the tourism industry,” he says of the tiles that serve as memorabilia, souvenirs, name plates, jewellery, mirror frames, borders for walls and floors, kitchens and bathrooms and much more, both in the corporate and domestic spheres.
 Venturing into the market in 1999, another company, Velha Goa, has helped to sustain the interest in azulejos. “Our tiles have travelled overseas to Europe and USA,” says managing partner Ivina Azaredo, who took over from founder and late father   da Costa Azaredo.
 Back in vogue again as more players step into the arena, azulejo art is making a striking statement on the Goan architectural scene
 
