KOCHI: Aster DM Healthcare chairman and managing director Azad   has filed a petition before the high court seeking to quash Union ministry of corporate affairs’ decision disqualifying him from holding directorships in companies for the next four years.

 Moopen and two other Kerala billionaires (M A Yusuffali and Ravi Pillai) were disqualified from holding directorships by the ministry as state-government owned Norka-Roots, in which they hold directorships, failed to file statutory documents for three consecutive years.
 
 In the petition, Moopen has contended that he was disqualified by mistaking Norka-Roots as a non-government company. It is a government company and the stipulations in Companies Act, under which the disqualification was done, are not applicable in the case of Norka-Roots, the petition said.
 
 The petitioner also alleged that the ministry did not issue a notice either to Norka-Roots or to him before the disqualification was implemented. In such circumstances, the disqualification has to be set aside by the court, Moopen’s petition says.
 
 The disqualification has serious adverse civil consequences as far as the petitioner is concerned as well as to other institutions in which he serves as a director or promoter director, the petition stated.
 
 As far as his directorship at Norka-Roots is concerned, Moopen points out that he was appointed in 2013 through a government order and he is a non-executive nominee director and has no role to play in the day-to-day management of the agency.
 
 Citing the enormous delay in filing statutory documents at Norka-Roots, the petition said the audit report of comptroller and auditor general (CAG) has been finalized only up to the year 2013-14 and the report was received by Norka-Roots only in September this year. After receiving the audit report, a general meeting of Norka-Roots has to be conducted to approve the report. The financial statements or annual returns can be filed by Norka-Roots only after that, as per the petition.
 
 
