KOLHAPUR: Four more Primary   (PHC) from the district have become eligible for certification from the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers (NABH) - the highest national recognition and mark of quality patient care and safety. 

 Out of the total 73 PHCs across 12 talukas of the district, five of them - Ispurli (Karveer taluka), Saravade (Radhanagari), Niwade (Gaganbawada),   (Karveer) and Aalate (Hathkanagale) - got NABH certification last year.
 
 With the addition of four PHCs - Hupari, Abdul Lat, Chikhali and Borpadale - the number will swell to nine. According to   (DHO) Prakash Patil, a confirmation mail was sent by the NABH officials two days ago, and the certificates will be received soon.
 
 "The NABH accreditation looks after infrastructure standards, process standards, governance standards and outcome standards on which the assessment marks are dependent," he said.
 
 Explaining it further, Patil said, "Regarding infrastructure standards, availability of drugs, transport and ambulance, communication, manpower and staffing is checked. For standard evaluation, care of patients, control of infection, sanitation, hygiene and access to the facilities, among others are taken into account."
 
 On validity of the certificate, he said that once granted the accreditation remains valid for three years. A surveillance visit is generally planned in the second year or usually after 18 months to the health centre that got the accreditation.
 
 "After studying the whole scenario of the PHCs, we have shortlisted as many as 12 health centres in district which have the potential to get NABH accreditation in the future. The list will be narrowed down further after careful scrutiny and the work to be done to improve their overall structure," said Patil.
 
 He added that accreditation holds importance, as it benefits all stakeholders, out of whom, patients are the biggest beneficiaries. "The patients get services by credential medical staff. Rights of patients are respected and protected and the patient satisfaction is regularly evaluated through it," Patil said.
 
 Kunal Khemnar, chief executive officer, Kolhapur ZP, told TOI they are focussing on getting more PHCs under the NABH accreditation. However, their basic infrastructure will be strengthened first in order to face the tough standards.
 
 It should be noted that the NABH is a constituent board of Quality Council of India, set up to establish and operate accreditation programme for hospitals and healthcare organizations. Its board is structured to cater to much-desired needs of the consumers and to set benchmarks for the progress of the health industry.
 
