Hyderabad: Ask any old-time cigarette connoisseur in the city and chances are he will still swear by the distinctly strong taste and smell of iconic Hyderabadi cigarette brands like Charminar and Golconda. Interestingly, both these brands of yore have one name in common – Janab Mohammad Abdus Sattar. Janab Sattar, a budding entrepreneur from Bengaluru, who tried setting up a cigarette business in that city, was persuaded by a Hyderabadi, Vazir Sultan, to come to the ‘City of Pearls’ in the late 1920s. Together, Mohammad Abdus Sattar and Vazir Sultan set up the Vazir Sultan Tobacco Company (VST) in 1927 at Narayanguda and rolled out the Charminar brand of cigarettes. Charminar became an instant hit, garnering a chunk of the market share in the erstwhile Nizam’s state within a year of its operations. As the company flourished, it attracted the attention of the British American Tobacco Company (BAT), which acquired a majority stake in VST in 1928-29. Following BAT’s entry, Sattar, who was an entrepreneur at heart, moved out to set up his own cigarette factory. In 1930, he set up the Hyderabad Deccan Cigarette factory at Musheerabad, barely 20 minutes away from the VST factory, to churn out cigarettes under the Golconda brand. 

 “These two cigarette factories were and still are important landmarks. The crossroads near VST was called the Charminar crossroads but has since been rechristened as RTC crossroads. However, this crossroads near the Hyderabad Deccan Cigarette factory is still called the Golconda crossroads,” said Mohammad Alam Khan, grandson of the Hyderabad Deccan Cigarette factory’s founder. Since its inception, Hyderabad Deccan Cigarette factory has been run by the family and now manufactures cigarettes for the diversified conglomerate ITC Limited. Interestingly, the owner of the Hyderabad Deccan Cigarette factory is a woman -- Begum Abeeda Khatoon, the sole child of Janab Mohammad Abdus Sattar. The story goes that after steering the factory in the initial days, Sattar passed away in 1935 following which his father-in-law took over the business. During this time, he also got Begum Abeeda Khatoon married to Nawab Shah Alam Khan, who belonged to a family of jagirdars in Hyderabad. A true blue Hyderabadi, Nawab Shah Alam Khan recalls that he was keen on joining the Hyderabad Civil Services after completion of his post-graduation from Osmania University. Instead, after his marriage, he joined the Hyderabad Deccan Cigarette factory in 1946 and has been running it till date along with his seven sons.
 
 Mohammad Alam Khan feels the business has lasted for over eight decades because of his father’s (Nawab Shah Alam Khan) astute business sense. “He continues to hold the reins of the family as well as the business,” he adds.
 
 He points out that during the Nizam’s days, the cigarette business used to be robust as there were barely any taxes. However, things have changed drastically with time. “The taxes imposed by the Union finance ministry on cigarettes is responsible for the dwindling sales. This is encouraging smuggling of cigarettes from South East Asian countries that are sold at lesser prices than domestic brands. At times, the price difference is 30-50%. People are also increasingly moving to cheaper tobacco options such as gutka and even the beedi market is growing,” Mohammad Alam Khan rues. With the future of the cigarette industry not looking too bright, the family is mulling going the ITC way by diversifying into other business areas such as real estate. 
 
 “This factory will remain. We have been associated with ITC since the early 1980s and they have been taking good care of us, even providing us with all the machinery. Now it is up to the next generation to decide if they want to join the industry,” Mohammad Alam Khan signs off.
 
 
