Chennai: An   posting in north East should not make a   miss his   pickles. Lt Colonel Sunil Bhushan (name changed), gets his favourite pickle when he wants by placing an order on Placeoforigin.in, a platform that brings home native tastes. A clutch of startups that deliver local delicacies are going the extra length to offer local delights like Andhra’s Pootharekulu or Panipat’s pachranga achaar (pickle). From tracking down the lineage of the halwai (sweetmaker) to partnering with logistics players who transport orders as far as 1,600 kilometres, startups like Place of Origin, Native Taste and Native Special are brining local flavours home.

 Using a combination of road, rail and air, these startups transport delicacies from the places that are home to these sweets/ savouries to customers like army jawans in far flung areas of Jammu, North East India and Lakshadweep. For Craftsvilla-acquired Place of Origin, sellers help out with the delivery, in case there are issues with logistics.
 
 “We have focused more on the supply side. The more unique products we have on our platform, more demand comes in as we can cover a bigger cross section of the population,” said Ashish Nichani, co-founder, Place of Origin which is witnessing a 25% growth. The company has also served Pork and Chilli pickle to customers hailing from the north east, settled in Bengaluru and other cities. Amenla Jamir who lives in Bengaluru craves for traditional pickle from  , their native. “Place of Origin is a great platform to explore interesting dishes from every corner of India including our remote North East! Because they deliver to far flung areas, people can experiment and taste local delicacies."
 
 Orders from Indians and others residing in other countries like Australia, UAE and the US is not uncommon. “A lot of Indians living abroad miss local flavours. If we are able to deliver a pack of Madugula Halwa or a pack of jacfruit chips from Kerala, they see value in it,” said Phanindra Anala, operations and business development, Native Taste, a Vizag based startup that delivers dishes from Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Agra, West Bengal and Telengana.
 
 To ensure authenticity, Native Taste also goes down to tracking delicacies that are made by a few families in the country. “We try to track the lineage and find the 1 or two families that have been carrying on the tradition of making that particular sweet. For example, there are only two people who make the original Bandar Laddu and there is only one shop that makes the original ‘Irutu kadai’ Tirunelveli Halwa,” said Anala.
 
 To ensure quality and freshness of the perishables, firms either transport only those snacks that have a long shelf life or deliver freshly-made delicacies as opposed to already available items. Native Taste has designated people in hubs like Rajahmundry who train vendors on different packaging needs for different dishes. The startup has dishes like Maharashtra Chiroti, Agra Petha and Dharwad Peda and is looking to strenghten its product portfolio.
 
 The aggregation of sweetmakers on their platform provides a greater exposure to them and increases the scope of their sale. For instance, Karur-based Native Special has on its platform Manalmedu murukku, which would otherwise not be known to residents outside the small town. “It is one of the top selling delicacies on the platform. With the increasing number of foodies, obscure delicacies get sold faster,” said Baskaran Veluchamy, founder.
 
  
  
