NEW DELHI: In a significant reshuffle, the city got a new   chief on Tuesday after lieutenant governor Anil Baijal approved the appointment of 1990-batch   for the post.

 The post of traffic chief had fallen vacant after Ajay Kashyap was transferred as director general of Tihar Jail last week. Pathak, also the chief spokesperson for the force, was earlier serving as the special commissioner of operations in  .
 
 Pathak will be expected to take some drastic measures and revamp the unit significantly. Removing bottlenecks on major arterial roads and streamlining parking on encroached stretches will be a major challenge.
 
 An academic, Pathak has a master degree in chemistry from Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi and an MPhil in environmental sciences from Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU). He is often considered a hard task master.
 
 Having a science background, he is expected to speed up the integration of the intelligent traffic management system that has been in the pipeline for the past few years.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Pathak said, “Our priority will be to maintain a high degree of strategic presence and alertness. With guidance from the   and CP, Delhi, the traffic unit will focus on effective prosecution and use of technology. There will be participation of all stakeholders and citizens towards effective traffic management.”
 
 During 2013 - 15, Pathak served as the joint commissioner (general administration) and ensured transparency and satisfaction among the lower constabulary. He was then posted as joint commissioner of southwestern range before being appointed the special commissioner of operation. He conceptualised the Parakram commando patrol vans and revamped ‘Dial 100’, communication and PCR units.
 
 Also on Tuesday, 1991-batch   R P Upadhyay was posted as special commissioner of the Crime Branch. Upadhyay was earlier serving as joint commissioner of southeastern range. Before that, he had stints as IG, Chandigarh and additional director in enforcement directorate.
 
 Upadhyay will get to head a recently revamped Crime Branch. Those who have worked under him say he monitors important investigations himself and makes sure the case reaches its logical end.
 
 Another member on the reshuffle list was 1993-batch IPS officer Praveer Ranjan, who was given Upadhyay’s post. Ranjan will be heading the south and southeast districts and will report to special commissioner (law & order, south) P Kamraj.
 
 
