AHMEDABAD: Running a   now counts as anti-social activity punishable under   (PASA). In a first, the crime branch of city police has detained under PASA eight of the 30 accused who had been arrested earlier for being involved in con call centres and related payment processing. 

 These eight accused, Lakhansinh Khengar, Krupal Thakker, Tarun Mishra, Deepak Asudani, Bhaumik Vaniya, Ruchir Andharia, Yagnesh Vitthalpara and Maulik Trivedi have been split up and sent to Rajkot, Jamnagar, Porbander, Surat and Bhuj jails.
 
 Interestingly, among the PASA detainees, there is only one call center owner - Tarun Mishra, while the others are those who managed payments and provided the main accused with VoIP minutes. 
 
 Meanwhile, the high-powered committee of three IPS officers has started the hunt for 28 more accused found to be involved in the illegal call centre scam that emerged in November 2016.
 
 Top police sources said the probe has now extended to Noida, Hyderabad and Maharashtra. “We have identified four persons in Ahmedabad and Noida who were providing leads (details of American citizens) to Sandeep Dhavda, Hitendra Rajavani and Thomas Patel arrested for running call centres at Vastrapur.
 
 “We are hunting for Sandeep Priyadarshi and Jigar Darji of Ahmedabad, Vati Verma of Hyderabad and Mihir Jaiswal of Noida. The four used to procure leads of American citizens through their contacts and sell them at Rs 8 to Rs 10 per lead to the accused,” said a police official.
 
 Investigators said they have also identified Rashesh Choksi of Ahmedabad and Anuj Gupta of Noida as those who sold VoIP minutes to owners of con call centres. Earlier, the cyber cell of city crime had arrested two persons from Ahmedabad for selling VoIP minutes to con call centres.
 
 Police have also busted the city-based hawala link that was used to transfer money through I-Tunes gift cards in China. “Mahendra and Amin are the key persons. We are yet to establish their full identities,” said a senior police official.
 
 City police officials said they are in touch with Mumbai police as four traders of Chinese goods are on the radar. “These four persons used their contacts in China to pay for goods bought by them in Chinese currency generated from the I-Tunes gift cards. They then paid the money to con call centre owners in Indian currency,” said an investigator.
 
 Crime branch sources said callers from these illegal call centres used to extort money from US citizens by posing as officials of the Internal Revenue Service. The victims were made to buy I-Tunes gift cards which were redeemed in China. The money was then routed to India through traders in Mumbai and Ahmedabad who deal in Chinese goods.
 
