VARANASI: Millennia old Varanasi, widely known for its heritage richness, is yet to find a place in   list despite many attempts. But a fresh initiative is made to notify the heritage sites, which are not protected by the   (ASI) and state archaeological department. The   constituted under  , 1973 will enlist the neglected monuments and   for their notification by the government. 

 "In the first phase, we will shortlist 300 monuments and heritage sites, which have been out of the purview of ASI and state archaeology," Heritage Conservation Committee secretary Ratnesh Verma said. He has been assigned the work of identifying and listing of ancient sites for conservation. The listing of these sites will be completed in next 15 days and sent to the government for notification. It is for the first time, when such an initiative is being taken for the conservation of unprotected heritage sites, he told to TOI on Friday. After notification, these sites will be conserved under different government schemes, he added.
 
 There are a number of tangible and intangible heritage sites associated with different faiths, including Hinduism, Islam, Buddhism, Jainism and Christianity. These sites will be listed with the help of the people for conservation. District magistrate Yogeshwar Ram Mishra held a meeting of the committee on Thursday to work out the plan. The meeting was also attended by Divya Gupta of Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH), professor emeritus of art and history, Banaras Hindu University, Maruti Nandan Tiwari and director of Jnana Pravah Kamal Giri.
 
 The holy city of Varanasi possesses about 3,300 Hindu shrines, 1,388 Muslim shrines, 45 Sikh sites, 11 Buddhist places, 4 Jain shrines, 12 churches and countless markers to a multitude of folk deities. The city is famous for pilgrimage, festivities and rituals. Majority of festivities are held on the banks of Ganga, dotted with religious rest houses, temples, monasteries and other structures, representing both, tangible and intangible heritages, professor of cultural geography and heritage studies, BHU, Rana PB Singh said. He said that the city has two remnants of a holy past, the first being Sarnath where Buddha gave his first sermon and the second one is Rajghat plateau, where the archaeological findings and the C14 dating of some of the excavated wares refer to the existence of urban settlements in the period during 800 BC. The city's heritage and crescent shape Ganga has always attracted sages, philosophers, travellers and mystics. The old city has been the meeting place of philosophers and religious thinkers of India. 
 
 Despite its heritage richness, it fails to find a place in Unesco list. Over a decade ago, Varanasi Development Authority (VDA) had prepared a report, highlighting the rich culture of the city to propose its inclusion in the Unesco list of World Heritage. The old city heritage zone includes the unique associative cultural landscape formed by the Ganga and the related cultural, religious, and social life. 
 
 The area is divided into three zones. These are Ganga river and the riverfront heritage zone, core heritage area and outer heritage across the river. The proposal to inscribe Varanasi further rests on the rare and unique living expression of the religious and cultural importance of Ganga, whose sacredness has led to the settling and growth of the ancient city and which still continues to be the main reason for the religious and cultural importance of Varanasi across the globe.
 
 
