MUMBAI: Several   have hurriedly convened   on Sunday to ensure   from their buildings on Tuesday . This is in keeping with the state election commission's directives to the department of cooperatives and municipal wards to issue directions to all societies to hold meetings before Tuesday's voting to ensure that most residents cast their votes.

 At the same time, many societies have said that they had not received any such letter. According to the deputy registrars of cooperatives, the letters were either mailed to the societies or sent by mail. More than 30,000 socieities' e-mail addresses are registered with the cooperatives department in Mumbai. In Thane, Navi Mumbai and beyond, there are 40,000 housing societies that have been asked to sensitize voters.
 
 Apna Ghar Unit No 2 Housing Society in Andheri (w) has convened a meeting on its premises upon directives from the deputy registrar of cooperatives in K-west ward. The written agenda of the society , signed by B B Kadam who is honorary general secretary of the society , is to discuss how to increase the voting percenta ge of the society at the municipal election.
 
 Similarly, Swami Samartha Prasanna Oshiwara East Unit Housing Society has organized voting on Sunday to encourage residents to vote for the elections and has made it mandatory for members to attend it, citing the directives from the cooperatives department.
 
 Meanwhile, Jayant Shetty chairman of   in Dindoshi that has 675 flats in eight towers, said the society could not hold a meeting in just three days and it had not even received the letter.
 
 “Now, we have put up on the notice board the directives of the cooperatives department regarding 100% attendance of eligible resident voters of the society at the polling booth to cast their vote. This is to safeguard the society from any action,“ he said.
 
 Chetan Gada secretary of a buildings on J N Road said they had not received any letter. Another Mulund resident said, “Though I read about it on social media groups, there was no such communication to our housing society .“ According to officials from the cooperatives department, as per the law the management committee members are supposed to act as volunteers for the general election and ensure maximum voting from their society members. In case the society fails to awaken voters, the registrar can ask for the reasons if the society auditor passes `adverse' remarks such as `no sensitisation was held for election at the meeting'.
 
 When told that many societies did not know about such directives, cooperatives commissioner Chandrakant Dalvi said it was the collector and BMC officials who were supposed to ensure that directives reach the socieites by post or mail or physical delivery.
 
 A deputy registrar from Mumbai, who did not want to be quoted, said that all housing societies had their mails registered with them and they have been issued directives. “Eighty per cent of housing societies must have received them,“ he said.
 
 Activist Anandini Thakur said many members from housing societies in Khar Residents' Association and H-West Federation had told her that they did not receive any notice.“And even if they do receive it, how can they hold a meeting at such a short notice,“ she asked.
 
 (With input from Somit Sen)
 
