Whoever has travelled extensively will surely tell you one thing – there’s no better experience that travelling. And the younger generation lives by this rule. While Puneites go on treks or weekend getaways with dear ones at the drop of a hat, the city is seeing an increasing number of solo travellers too. More interestingly, it’s the ladies who form a large part of this number.

  Today’s female travellers are liberated, independent and not afraid of exploring new destinations all by themselves. “I embarked on my first solo trip in 2016. I have always travelled with my friends and family, so I was a little worried about jetting off on a new adventure all by myself. Who would I speak to? Who would I share my meals with? These were the typical questions on my mind. But soon enough, I realised that this was the best decision of my life,” says Deepti Dadlani, a marketing professional who travelled alone to Toba island in Japan. Once you get over the initial hiccups, travelling solo opens a whole new chapter of life and the experiences make your life more exciting, feels Deepti.
 
  Making new friends, teaming up with other travel buddies and ending up expanding the plan; all this is only possible if you travel alone. “Solo travel gives you a different kind of experience. It increases your confidence and makes you strong as a person. Planning a vacation with family or friends takes time and you have to plan according to others’ convenience. So, whenever I get a few days off from work, I simply pack my bags and leave,” says Neha Joshi, an advertising consultant.
 
  Neha has travelled alone to Bhuj, Mangalore, Mahabalipuram, Chennai and Pondicherry. “My last trip was to Rann of Kutch and my driver only understood Gujarati. At first, communicating with him was difficult. Eventually, in a matter of just two days, I started speaking a little bit of Gujarati. You experience such small joys only when you travel alone,” she adds. Solo travellers have the liberty to change plans as per their convenience; be it spending an extra night on the desert, or going bungee jumping, Neha points out. 
 
  There are times when you feel you need someone along. Software engineer   felt the same during her trip to Andaman & Nicobar Islands.
 
  After having travelled alone in the United Kingdom, Trupti embarked on a 10-day trip to the islands. She had planned a trip to Ross Island, but she fell sick and there was nobody around to look after her. “I had to catch a ferry in the morning and I had food poisoning. I was dehydrated and so weak that I could barely walk. I asked a family at the port for help. The lady told me to rest and even got me medicines. The captain of the ship vacated a bunker for me and made me dal chawal. The experience restored my faith in humanity,” she says.
 
  The major hindrance while travelling alone is the language barrier, feels Trupti. “On a trekking trip to Nepal, I reached Pokhra and noticed a couple of guys stalking me. They even climbed on my bus and started misbehaving. But I couldn’t raise an alarm as they didn’t understand my language. I had to bear them till I reached my destination. What I learnt from the incident was that I should have avoided travelling alone at night,” she says. 
 
  Beside, while on a   expedition, you learn to find solutions to almost every problem. Priya Kulkarni, a fashion designer, shares, “It was my first solo trip to the US. I landed in New York and took a cab to my hostel address. I saw a lady in uniform and enquired about the hostel, but she told me that there were no hostels in the area. That’s when I realised that my travel agent had conned me.” Not knowing where to go, she was left alone and in fear. “Some homeless guys started stalking me. So I gathered myself and walked down the street hurriedly. I found a police station and narrated the entire incident to the cop. He then got in touch with one of his friends, who was an Indian, and his family welcomed me with open arms,” she adds.
 
  
  Safety is the main concern when it comes to solo travelling. You need to be aware all time and having a good sense of direction helps. Knowing the place and the culture well before travelling is the mantra for Trupti. “I do a lot of research while planning my travel. I look for basic information about sightseeing, culture and, most importantly, the crime rate in the area,” she says.
  
  Keeping the hotel informed about your whereabouts and carrying a pepper spray are other safety measures that travellers adopt. “The biggest challenge is to be prepare yourself. If you have a long journey, you will get bored and tend to fall sleep, which is not a good idea. You have to be alert. Also keep a first aid kit handy,” says Neha.
 
  Cheaper  
 
  Under the Goods and Services Tax ( ) to be implemented from July 1, economy class air travel will become cheaper with the tax rate fixed at 5 per cent, against the present 6 per cent. This has sent a wave of cheer among travellers. “Not that I would spend a bomb on travel before but it’s definitely a great thing if have to spend less. I can use the saved money elsewhere,” says Trupti.
 
  Neha adds, “Travellers were already happy after the government decided to connect 128 regional routes via affordable air travel. The implementation of GST will further boost domestic travel, connecting travellers to more places in lesser time and money.”
 
 
