PATIALA: A team of the   (ECI) gave a clean chit to the Patiala district administration over allegations by AAP leaders that there had been a breach of protocol in the security of electronic voting machines (EVM) used for polling in Nabha constituency during the recently concluded assembly elections in Punjab.

 The two-member team, in fact, found the suspicions raised by AAP “farfetched”. The team, comprising   chief election officer Narender Chauhan and Delhi deputy chief election officer  , reached Patiala on Wednesday evening to take stock of the situation after the AAP candidate from Nabha, Dev Mann, raised suspicions over EVMs being moved from the ground floor of Patiala’s Government College of Physical Education, where the machines have been stored, on Monday.
 
 Chauhan said it had come to light that the EVMs of Nabha constituency had been kept in a strongroom on the first floor of the college building and the machines that were being moved were of old make that had not been used in these elections. “There has been no breach of protocol. In fact, though EC requires two-tier security arrangements, the administration here has made given it three-tier security,” Chauhan said.
 
 He said district officials required additional space for counting votes and that is why the old EVMs were shifted. “I do not see any violation,” the HP CEO said.
 
 The team also held a meeting with representatives of political parties prior to visiting the college where the EVMs have been kept. Dev Mann and his party’s Patiala candidate, Dr  , attended the meeting. They produced a copy of the complaint that the party had sent to the EC. Later, speaking to media, Dr Balbir admitted that they were not aware whether the EVMs that were being moved had anything to do with the recently concluded assembly polls. “It is for the ECI to check if there was any violation or not. As far as our stand is concerned, the party wanted to ensure there were no violations,” Dr Singh said.
 
 A controversy had erupted on Monday when Dev Mann and his supporters raised the issue of EVMs being shifted. They had even demanded registration of an FIR against government officials, accusing them of “dishonest behaviour”. The shifting of the EVMs was stalled immediately after this and Dev Mann was allowed to put a personal lock on the rooms where the machines were stored.
 
