 Panaji:   considers himself lucky to have made a second trip to India.
  The Senior Equalities and Inclusion Coordinator at   first visited India in 2014 where he conducted training sessions at Kolkata, Haryana, Gujarat and Goa. Three years later, the Premier League side who have an understanding with   Asia-Pacific (Singapore) deputed Slaughter again to India, giving him more taste of what the country has to offer.
  “The people are amazing. The coaches are extremely positive and their attitude towards learning is good. More importantly, they have their hearts in the right place when it comes to special athletes. That’s the key,” Slaughter told TOI during lunch break at the Don Bosco ground in the city.
  Renowned for its expertise in delivering high quality sports programmes for athletes with disabilities,   is the first English Premier League (EPL) side to work with Special Olympics in Asia.
  Slaughter, along with Dan Dodge, Workforce and Quality Assurance Manager, put 40 coaches through the grind for module 2 of coaching special athletes and were left in no doubt that India’s special athletes are now in safe hands.
  “Our intention is to train 40 coaches to become better, refine their coaching philosophies and coaching practice. But we also intend to provide them with a better understanding of the values and beliefs of Special Olympics,” said Slaughter.
  The four-day coaching programme conducted at the Don Bosco ground saw select coaches from Special Olympics and Tottenham Hotspur Foundation work together to improve their coaching skills for those with intellectual disabilities.
  Special Olympics uses sport to change the lives of people with intellectual disabilities.
  “Unless we have good coaches, there will not be a sea change. The key to improving any performance is linked to just how well he is taught by the coach,” said Special Olympics director Victor Vaz.
  For a long time now, Special Olympics and Tottenham Hotspur Foundation has been in a partnership to create social change through sports, primarily football.
  “On the final day of training, the coaches had to deliver a football session with a social change message. Things like crossing the road safely; so the coach must develop a football session that has an element of risk or danger. May be, a ball coming from a different angle and the player having to dribble in the opposite direction. You must also know whether it is safe to dribble,” explained Slaughter.
