 has been the kind of actor who leaves nothing to chance —through research and intense preparations before the shoots. However, for his debut Telugu film  , in which he plays legendary Tamil actor  , there were at least two elements that he had no control over — the language and the film’s period setting.

 The movie’s director   tells us, “I think in Malayalam, he might have the freedom to relax but here he was always on his toes, making sure he knows what is to be done. It’s a period film too, so he doesn’t want to get anything wrong.”
 
 Ashwin says that the impediments hardly came in the way of his performance. “The first scene he shot was a dialogue sequence with him and Rajendra Prasad. Dulquer did it in one take. The crew, especially the light boys and support staff, are not familiar with his work. But when he completed that scene, everyone just spontaneously started clapping,” says the director, who finished the first schedule of the film earlier this month.
 
 Ask him on how Dulquer prepared to play the character of Kaathal Mannan in the Tamil-Telugu bilingual, Ashwin says he and Dulquer both agreed that the character won’t be an imitation of Gemini Ganesan. “We wanted to understand Ganesan’s character, mindset and how he dealt with his life — based on his interviews and whatever he has written. So more than mannerisms, we agreed to go beyond the physical remeblance.”
 
 Ashwin seems to be thrilled to have Dulquer on board for the project, in spite of the film being centred on actress Savithri, who is played by  .
 
 “I think it’s a big deal to have a mainstream actor like him sign the film as it takes courage. A lot of stars have these calculations – about the market, character and time that they would be investing in the project. But Dulquer understood that the soul of the film and it’s a story that has never been done. I understood that he’s the kind of actor you don’t see much. He gives importance to the bigger picture rather than just his role,” says, Ashwin, adding that the team will start shooting the secon schedule from next month.
 
