PUNE: The government’s ambitious programme to introduce electric vehicles in India, including Pune, to   has failed to take off and has just resulted in hard-selling of mild diesel hybrid cars.

 An analysis by New Delhi’s Centre for Science and Environment ( ) revealed it.
 
 The central government assured that more than 6 to 7 million electric and hybrid vehicles would be introduced in the automobile market by 2020 and buyers would get incentives on purchasing them. In 2015, Maharashtra had a plan to introduce at least 50 to 60 electric or hybrid public transport buses in various cities.
 
 The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) had promised citizens implementation of intelligent transportation management system and steps to introduce electric buses as a part of Smart Cities Mission. But no step has been taken in this direction.
 
 The CSE’s analysis has shown that the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Hybrid and Electric Vehicle (FAME) programme of the Government of India to promote electro-mobility in the country has only ended up hard-selling mostly mild diesel hybrid cars. Of the Rs70 crore spent on incentives in 2015-16, Rs40 crore was spent on diesel mild hybrids.
 
 Anumita Roychowdhury, the executive director-research and advocacy, CSE, said “These mild hybrids are a marginal improvement over conventional diesel models and are much cheaper than electric vehicles. The main purpose of scaling up strong hybrid and electric vehicles for the big transition towards clean and zero emissions has not taken off. Worse, this programme has not worked for public transport at all.”
 
 The CSE’s analysis report states that these facts directly contradict the policy vision of the Union power ministry to have 100 per cent electric vehicle sales by 2030 or the target set by the   to have six-seven million electric vehicles by 2020. Even though this segment of electric and hybrid vehicles is still a low volume one with only 1.3% market penetration, it is an important step needed in the longer run to clean up the air, reduce climate impacts and secure energy, states the CSE document.
 
 “This demands immediate course correction as tax payers’ money used for incentives for electric mobility is only bringing mild hybrids — only 7-15% more fuel-efficient than comparable conventional diesel models,” said Roychowdhury.
 
