NAGPUR: Nagpur Municipal Corporation ( ) has launched a month long awareness programme for controlling both primary tuberculosis or TB and the Multi-Drug Resistance (MDR) TB within the city. The campaign involves putting educative banners on 200 corporation buses, 2000 auto rickshaws, jingles on radio and advertisements in cinema talkies about the disease like coughing etiquettes, medicine regimes for primary TB and MDR TB.

 Dr K B Tumane, city TB Officer from   (CTBCTS) told TOI that patients don’t realize the importance of the offered drug regimen and they stop taking medicines when they start feeling little better. 
 
 This leads into resistance to the medicines or MDR. “Almost 40-50% of the patients are only cured and the almost the same number dies. Hence the campaign would also educate the patients about following the prescribed drug regimen, ill-effects of MDR TB and the need for following coughing and sneezing etiquettes,” he said.
 
 The campaign was formally launched at the hands of Krupal Tumane, Member of Parliament from Ramtek and the city mayor Pravin Datke on December 25 by inaugurating a bus with posters and banners on it.
 
 Dr Tumane said that the city has 22 microscopic testing centres where the sputum tests are performed for patients to diagnose TB and 150 DOTS Centres where patients are given free medicines. At present the patients are given a five drugs regimen on alternate days. But this will be changed to daily regimen from next month onwards under the Revised National TB Control Programme (RNTCP).
 
 Patients will also be educated on the ongoing TB control programmes. One of these projects called as ‘Universal Access to TB Care or UATC’. “Since generally only about 50% of the TB patients seek treatment in government sector poor patients taking treatment in private sector land up leaving the treatment incomplete due to lack of money. They do not complete the medicine course and become resistant to the drugs or MDR. The NMC runs a project with support from the Bill and   where such patients can get all the medicines free of cost from the pharmacies by giving a copy of the doctor’s prescription to the chemist. The chemist in turn gets the money refunded from the foundation through the NMC. This allows the patients to stick to the drug regimen,” said Dr Tumane.
 
 The second project, 99 DOTS, gives free medicines to the patient for one month. The patient after completing one month’s treatment is expected to give a missed call on the number under the medicine pack. This ensures that the patient has completed the course and then all such patients are then put on a regular follow up by the NMC staff. 
 
 “Those who don’t give a missed call it is assumed that they have not completed the drug regimen. These patients are then convinced by the NMC workers about resuming and continuing the medicines,” said Dr Tumane.
 
 
