COIMBATORE: S Thamizhselvi, a resident of Ukkadam, has been taking bus to Gandhipuram bus stand daily for the past four years. The woman, who works as a dishwasher at one of the restaurants in the area, said she used to pay Rs4 on a government bus for almost as long as she can remember. But for the past one week, the conductor had been demanding Rs6.

 Thamizhselvi’s case is not an isolated one. Bus commuters, who travel across the heart of the city, had been reporting an increase in ticket prices on the   (TNSTC)-run buses for the past one week. The situation is same for commuters travelling from   towards Gandhipuram bus stand or signal.
 
 “All buses passing through Gandhipuram signal have begun charging us an additional Rs1, making it a new ‘stage’ or ‘point’,” said Sudarkodi, a resident of Sivanandha Colony. “A bus ride from Sivanandha Colony to Gandhipuram bus stand used to cost only Rs3 until December when it was increased to Rs4. For the past one week, it had been hiked to Rs5,” said another restaurant worker,  .
 
 Commuters are upset about the lack of uniformity in hiking the charges and not being informed about it in advance “There was no announcement about the government’s decision to increase ticket prices and how it was going to be raised in any of the newspaper, television or radios,” said  , who works with a photo studio on Cross-Cut Road. “Buses charge different fares on different days. Private buses have also begun to hike their fares by Rs2-Rs3 in the last one week,” he added.
 
 Consumer activists, meanwhile, accused bus operators of charging commuters as per their whims and fancies. “It has been a perennial problem in the city for the past few years. We have been receiving several complaints about bus operators charging more than the government approved rate. We have taken up the issue with the regional transport office and the district collectorate,” said consumer activist with Coimbatore Consumer Cause, K Kathirmathiyon.
 
 “They overcharge even long distance commuters. For instance, bus ticket to Tirupur cost only Rs22.50, but now they charge Rs24. Similarly, bus ride to Erode will now cost Rs59 against Rs42 earlier,” Kathirmathiyon said.
 
 Activists also pointed out that fines levied by the district administration on TNSTC were often too meagre, despite the fact that the government body itself overcharges. “Earlier they used to levy fines as high as Rs9,000 to Rs10,000. But now, they charge a fine of Rs200-Rs300, allowing TNSTC to save more than Rs1 lakh,” Kathirmathiyon said.
 
 Attempts to contact the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation didn’t yield any response. 
 
