BENGALURU: “Two years ago, my son disappeared from near our house. Since then, we couldn't trace him. Then, a week ago, my neighbour got a call saying my son was found. Initially, I didn't believe him and thought he was joking. But that same evening I was able to talk to my child,“ said  , who was reunited with his son Narendra, 18, in Bengaluru. Tuesday was an emotional day for three such families which reunited with their children, all of whom are suffering from intellectual and development disabilities. The boys had been staying at a   in the city for the past few months. Accidentally separated from their loved ones, Omprakash, 17, Narendra, 18 and Balaji, 18, from Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh, respectively, found themselves in the  .

 During an   conducted at the centre in March, UIDAI officials in Bengaluru found the boys' fingerprint details were already recorded in the system.Using this information, officials were able to trace their families.
 
 Malikamma, who teared up on seeing her son, said: “My husband and son had come to Nimhans in Bengaluru and had got off at Majestic station. My husband went to the restroom and asked Balaji to wait somewhere nearby till he returned. However, on coming back, he couldn't find Balaji.“
 
 “My husband spent the whole day at the station searching for our son.The next day , he called us and informed about what happened. We searched in Banashankari and Majestic areas as well, but were unable to find him,“ she added.
 
 Omprakash, on the other hand, went missing from a petrol bunk. “Over a year ago, we travelled from Jharkhand to Uttar Pradesh for a relative's wedding. On our way back, the bus stopped at a petrol pump and my son got down to fill a water bottle. Unfortunately, he was left behind. We filed a police complaint and looked for him in Varanasi and Allahabad in vain. Even though we were not able to find him, I knew that one day my son would return to me,“ said an emotional Jagdish, the boy's father.
 
