NAGPUR: Timely diagnosis and surgical intervention at the Meditrina Institute of Medical Sciences (MIMS) last week saved the life of a 41-year-old farmer Prakash Moreshwar Bhoyar from Arvi (Wardha district). The patient’s main heart vessel (aorta) had ruptured and was bleeding profusely into the abdomen. The treating doctors in a six-hour surgery stanched the bleeding, put a huge artificial graft measuring about 16X8 cm (an inverted Y) called Aorto-bi-iliac graft while the patient received as many as 32 units of blood and blood components. The surgery is called repair of ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA).

 Dr  , managing director and neurosurgeon of MIMS, told TOI a delay of even 30 minutes in reaching the hospital could have been fatal for the patient. “It was timely diagnosis, immediate emergency services followed by the surgical intervention that saved his life. Besides the specialized team effort, availability of the artificial graft (which is generally not available) in our hospital and expertise of the surgeon also worked in his favour,” he said.
 
 The operating cardiothoracic vascular surgeon (CVTS) Dr Saurabh Varshney stated the mortality rate in AAA cases was high as 90% of them don’t even manage to reach the hospital. It was one of the most dangerous surgical emergency. “In this case the patient was lucky he reached the hospital in time. He was in complete shock due to so much bleeding. We had to replace the entire section of aorta from near the kidney to the two iliac vessels in the two legs. Luckily, the blood inside the abdomen had got converted into a haematoma with a sac over it. Yet anastomosing (connecting) the vessel on the two ends and removing entire blood collected in the abdomen and putting the graft was a Herculean task,” he said.
 
 Dr Varshney said that AAA was a life-threatening degenerative disease. Smoking and alcohol worsened the condition. Most patients remained asymptomatic until they developed a complication. This disease was known by its three factors of abdominal pain, hypertension and a pulsatile abdominal mass. However this triad was present only in 25-30% patients and many came with symptoms that suggested other problems and the disease was either missed or misdiagnosed, he added.
 
 The patient literally had no blood pressure, his pulse was low. He had severe abdominal and back pain and was unconscious. “I was preparing to go for a walk at around 4am in the morning when this sudden pain started in my abdomen and back. I thought I could treat it using certain ayurvedic methods and medicines. But everything failed. Then my relatives took me to Amravati from where I was directed to MIMS. I am indebted to the doctors who treated me,” said Bhoyar, who is to be discharged in a day or two.
 
 Dr  , cardiologist, said that an AAA patient usually came with sudden onset of abdominal or back pain and high blood pressure. “This farmer was an alcoholic and was not taking any drugs despite history of hypertension. He now has to follow strict medicine regime all his life,” he said.
 
 Dr Amol Bitey, radiologist, diagnosed the AAA after doing a 2-D echo and a CAT scan. “The image of the ultrasound was enough for me to diagnose AAA as it was a typical case,” he said.
 
 Dr  , surgeon, Dr Ritesh Borkar, anaesthesiologist, Dr Latika Panpaliya and resident doctors and operation theatre staff including Dr Sadanand Raut, Dr Trupti Shendre, Dr Vivek Yadav, Dr Prakash Walondre and Dr   worked as a team for the surgery.
 
 
