Nagpur: Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis has approved the comprehensive sewage system, including the rejuvenation of all three rivers — Nag, Pili and Pora, at an estimated cost of Rs1,870.33 crore.  The CM also agreed to give GST compensation to the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) on the lines of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). It may pave way for a grant of Rs1,063.62 crore per annum as against the existing allocation of Rs509.28 crore per annum. Union minister and city MP Nitin Gadkari held a meeting with Fadnavis on Tuesday evening at Mumbai. Four major decisions related to the city were taken at the meeting. Former mayor and corporator Pravin Datke told TOI that the South Sewage Zone plan, comprising of Pora river rejuvenation at an estimated cost of Rs618 crore, has been approved. “The project will be taken up under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT). Funds of Rs400 crore will be given in the first phase and the remaining Rs218 crore in the second,” he said. Datke added that the state will give a 25% share in the Nag River pollution abatement plan of Rs1,252.33 crore. “The Centre had cleared the project last year. The Centre and state will take loan from the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) and give 85% as grant to the NMC. The remaining 15% will be the NMC’s contribution. The state will also stand as guarantor of the NMC’s share to the centre,” he said. Datke also said that with Tuesday’s development the entire city’s comprehensive sewage system has got approval. “Nag River pollution abatement plan comprises North Sewage zone and rejuvenation of Nag and Pili rivers. At present, sewage water flows into the three rivers due to lack of sewage system. NMC will lay sewage lines across the city, collect and treat under the two projects. City will get rid of sewage water problem and three rivers will be free from pollution,” he said. Datke said Nag Riverfront development plan of Rs1,373.60 crore will be taken in the second phase as preparation of a detailed project report is still in progress. Mayor Nanda Jichkar, standing committee chairman Sandip Jadhav, municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal, MLAs Sudhakar Kohle and Vikas Kumbhare, CEO of Smart City SPV Ramnath Sonawane and assistant commissioner Milind Meshram were present at the meeting. Mudgal said CM directed the state finance department to calculate the NMC’s GST compensation on the basis of octroi revenue and growth. “It is a major development for the NMC as the city will get much more than the existing allocation,” he said. If the state considers octroi revenue and growth, the NMC is likely to get the desired amount of Rs Rs1,063.62 crore per annum. Datke said the CM also gave permission to the NMC to divide and execute Rs228 crore water supply scheme sanctioned for unauthorized layouts under AMRUT. “NMC floated tenders and received high bids under the project. The state made mandatory for the NMC to plan and execute the works in one package. Now works will be planned in packages on basis of legislative assembly constituency or any other formula,” he said. Datke said Fadnavis also directed the urban development department to approve the NMC’s draft of Establishment Schedule (staffing pattern).