

 
 
 I agree that a few weeks ago we (Congress) were behind and the BJP was ahead. But since the alliance with the SP has been announced there’s been a significant increase in the momentum. I’m reasonably confident that our message is getting through. I have every hope and expectation that the Congress as well as the alliance would do very well in the  . 
 
 
 
 
 We have to be realistic. In the past 20-odd years, we have not had a major presence in the UP Assembly. The party leadership concluded that our message and values would be better projected and portrayed through enhancing our base by an alliance rather than undermining the secular vote by fighting (elections) separately. And I fully accept and respect this calculation.
 
 
 
 
 My view is that you have to look at the larger purpose of an election which is after all going to determine the future direction of the politics of the state. And that direction (in UP politics), to my mind, requires this alliance.
 
 
 
 
 Well it’s interesting. The Samajwadi Party traces its heritage to Ram Manohar Lohia who was a big critic of Nehru. So, I don’t think either side will put such a label (Nehruvian socialism) on it. But there are many things about the SP’s platform and its conduct in office which are completely compatible with Congress’s economics and social policy.
 
 
 
 
 I know him personally. He was an MP with me in the previous Lok Sabha. He is a sharp operator, an able person and does his homework. He has a pulse on the people of the state. He has been a good leader and will be a very good one in the coming years.
 
 
 
 
 Well, there are very sensible users of it. And, there are not very sensible users of it. In my capacity as jury of a magazine’s media awards, we felicitated the foreign ministry (headed by Sushma Swaraj) and the Indian Railways for judicious use of social media to reach out to citizens in times of distress. But, when my dear friend Sushma Swaraj uses the same media for warning foreign embassy officials then it undermines Indian diplomacy. Certainly, you can’t get away from social media. But, users must exercise due caution in what they say and how they say it.
 
 
 
 
 Social media users represent a rather modest percentage of the electorate. To use it as a substitute for traditional campaigning, as sometimes happens in the West, is not yet possible in India. You still need jeeps, megaphones, and rallies because a majority of our Indian voter is not reachable via social media.
 
 
 
 
 It’s important to understand history because it has echoes in the present. People need to be aware of its context. I don’t want history to be taught in a way that serves a narrow political agenda. It should purely be something that enhances our knowledge and our appreciation of where we have come from as a society. 
 
