PUNE: Keen to identity the mode of transport and routes used by the security guard for fleeing to Mumbai after murdering Infosys software engineer  , the prosecution on Saturday sought extension of his police  .

 The court extended the police remand of the guard,   (27), till February 7 after the prosecution asked for time to check if any other person was involved in the crime.
 
 Rasila (24), who joined Infosys here six months ago following her training in Mysore, was found strangulated to death in the Offshore Dedicated Centre (ODC) room on the ninth floor of a building on the Infosys campus around 8.30pm on Sunday . The guard had killed Rasila in a fit of rage after she had reprimanded him for staring at her.
 
 Saikia, working with the company's security unit for the past one year, was arrested around 3am on Monday from the Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus (CST) in Mumbai when he was about to board a train to his native place in Assam.
 
 Senior inspector Arun Waykar of the Hinjewadi po lice station produced Saikia before the first class judicial magistrate, Archana Barulkar, around 3.50pm on Saturday . He filed a plea seeking extension of the guard's police custody remand for five days.
 
 Assistant public prosecutor Dnyaneshwar More told the court that Saikia had strangulated Rasila with a LAN cable and kicked on her face with his boots repeatedly . The experts' report confirmed that his fingerprints were found on the cable.
 
 More said the custodial interrogation of the guard was essential because investigations had revealed that he had fled within an hour after the murder without informing his superiors. “We want to find out the mode of transport and the routes used by him to reach Mumbai as the infor mation was crucial to the prosecution's case,“ he was quoted as saying in the court.
 
 He pleaded to extend his police custody remand on the grounds that the investigations in the sensitive murder case were at a critical stage.
 
 Defence lawyers Biju Aloor and Tousif Shaikh said the court had given enough time to the police to interrogate the accused since his arrest on January 30 and his further detention with the police was not essential. They submitted that since there was no other motive to be probed, the accused should be sent to magisterial custody .
 
 After hearing both the sides, magistrate Barulkar observed that the case diary showed cogent grounds to extend the police custody remand of the accused.
 
