GURUGRAM: More than 50 trees have been cut in   to develop an illegal residential colony on agricultural land. Despite repeated complaints to multiple agencies, large scale construction which is unapproved is in progress in the area. In the last two weeks, 22 borewells were dug and installed.

 Colonies can only be built on agricultural land with, among other things, change of land use (CLU) permit from the department of town and country planning (DTCP). As for borewells, the   (CGWA), in their order dated August 13, 2011, imposed severe restrictions on construction and installation of new structures to extract groundwater, effectively prohibiting borewells in the area. The offence is punishable under Section 15-21 of the Environment Protection Act, 1986.
 
 The large-scale construction going on in the area is in flagrant violation of In violation of all these rules. A complaint was filed with the Gurgaon deputy commissioner on May 22, highlighting tree felling, construction activity and digging of borewells. “On May 13, I filed a complaint at the Farrukhnagar police station regarding unauthorised construction and cutting of trees. Next day, I filed a complaint with the forest department on tree felling. My third complaint was filed with the Farrukhnagar tehsildar on May 17, but no action has been taken so far,” said Farrukhnagar resident  , a social activist.
 
 He alleged the illegal activities are being carried out under the patronage of some influential person, which is preventing authorities from taking action.   secretary Sanjay Rohila said, “We have informed DTCP and the tehshil office,” adding registries of these plots are done by the tehshil office, and that they have no role in it.
 
 A district administration official said installing borewells is prohibited in Gurgaon due to depletion of groundwater. “We will take action if we find an irregularities,” he said.
 
 District town planner (enforcement) Rajendra T Sharma said so far they have not received any complaint. “If we receive one, we’ll have to first identify the land over which the alleged   is being built. We will then locate the land owner(s) as per revenue records, and serve them notice,” said Sharma, adding they have been taking action against unauthorised colonies.
 
 Regarding felling of trees, conservator of forest (south Haryana) M D Sinha said, “Farrukhnagar is not part of the restricted area. However, we will ask our field staff to inspect it.”
 
 
