CHANDIGARH: The parliamentary standing committee on home affairs has wondered why   terrorists let go   SP Salwinder Singh after waylaying his official vehicle and using it to reach the Pathankot airbase on January 2, 2016 to wreak havoc. The multi-party committee has also asked the government to investigate the role of drug smugglers in facilitating the terrorists' entry into India.

 The committee, headed by former Union home minister P Chidambaram, has several MPs including Prem Singh Chandumajra of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Kirron Kher of the  . It submitted its report on February 8. While the 70-page report directly attacks   Police, it has asked many questions about the role of the National Investigation Agency ( ).
 
 Seven security personnel, including  's Lt Col Niranjan EK, were killed in the attack that lasted more than 72 hours. A massive war of words had erupted between Congress, AAP and Akali Dal before just-concluded Punjab polls over the drug trade patronage.
 
 "The committee is unable to understand why the terrorists let the SP (Salwinder) and his friend (jeweller Rajesh Verma) off, which should be thoroughly examined by NIA. The committee understands that in this attack, the role of Punjab Police is also very questionable and suspicious as even after abduction of the Punjab Police SP, the Punjab Police took long time in arriving at the conclusion that their abduction was not just a criminal robbery but it was going to be serious national security threat," the report points out.
 
 "Besides, the committee is of the view that the role of narco-syndicate active in border areas of Punjab should also be investigated as the terrorists might have taken help of channels or networks used by smugglers to infiltrate the border, shelter and carry out terror attack," the report adds.
 
 "First of all, the committee is unable to understand that in spite of terror alert sounded well in advance, how terrorists managed to breach the high-security air base and subsequently attack (it)," the report reads. It also wonders why the security agencies were so ill-prepared to act swiftly and decisively "despite concrete and credible intelligence inputs received from abducted and released Pathankot's SP and his friend and through interception of communication between terrorists and their handlers".
 
 The report has been tabled a month after NIA submitted a chargesheet in a Mohali court and said that Jaish-e-Mohammad chief  , his brother Rauf and several others plotted the terror conspiracy. Punjab saw two terror attacks in the space of six months, first at Dinanagar in Gurdaspur in July 2015 followed by Pathankot in January 2016.
 
