BENGALURU: Differences between the   and the Railways over funding pattern for the proposed suburban railway became apparent on Monday when both CM   and Railways minister   expressed their concerns while signing a MoU for the project.

 The Railways minister, besides flagging off a new local train service between Bengaluru and Ramanagara, launched a slew of railway-related projects here on Monday .
 
 “Karnataka has filed objections to the draft policy the Centre has put forth to all states regarding funding pattern.Sharing 80% of the project cost will be a huge burden on the state. We have requested the Centre and the railway minister to bear 50% of the project cost,“ said the CM.
 
 Railways minister Suresh Prabhu, on the other hand, said, “Neither can the Centre nor the state fund such projects fully. We have to leverage from the market, we have to go for innovative funding models. We will look into the CM's request but will go ahead with the project as of now.“
 
 The draft policy in question proposes that the Centre and the partner state should each fund 20% of the project cost and that the state should avail loans for the remaining 60%. The MoU signed on Monday mandates that Karnataka and the railways will enter into a joint venture to establish an SPV to implement the suburban rail project. The project is pegged at about Rs 9,000 crore, of which the first phase will cost about Rs 2,500 crore.
 
 “The railways should share the cost of land acquisition too as land in Bengaluru is very expensive. More land needs to be acquired to develop the suburban rail infrastructure, which is going to burden the state's treasury . We will extend support to all the ongoing 16 cost-sharing projects with the railways if the requests are heeded,“ said the CM.
 
 The CM's pitch for 50:50 funding for project has quite a few takers including MPs Ananth Kumar, P C Mohan and  . “When H D Deve Gowda became the PM and I was elected as MP from Bengaluru. I had requested for the state and the Centre to build metro and circular rail systems for Bengaluru. I'm happy that the project is taking off. I believe both the stakeholders should share the project cost equally ,“ said Union minister Ananth Kumar. He requested Prabhu and the CM to name the SPV -Bengaluru Rail Infrastructure Development Enterprise.
 
 Citizens for Bengaluru members, meanwhile, handed over a petition to Prabhu with 22,000 signatures demanding right infrastructure that'll help reduce travel time in the city .Sanjeev Dyammanavar, member of Praja, techie and suburban rail activist, said, ban rail activist, s “The state's demand for equal cost sharing is justified. The railways must hike its stake in Beng aluru. To make the system viable, the railways should hike the fare marginally .“ marginally .“
 
 “The state and the railways mustn't delay the project further because the cost of land acquisition will be burdening both in the future,“ said Prakash Mandoth, member, Divisional Railway Users' Consultative Committee.
 
 TRAIN FOR RAMANAGARA, WHITEFIELD & KUPPAM
 
 Railways minister Suresh Prabhu flagged off on Monday a new MEMU train from KSR Bengaluru station to Ramanagara. The train will run six times a day -thrice in each direction. The KSR-Ramanagara passenger train will, however, be stopped with the MEMU service kicking off. The train will service Whitefield twice a day. It will depart KSR Bengaluru at 8:45am and reach Whitefield at 9:40am and leave Whitefield at 10:30am and arrive KSR at 11:10am. The same rake will head for Kuppam, leaving KSR at 11:20am and reaching Kuppam at 13:45pm. It will depart Kuppam at 2:45pm and reach KSR at 5:20pm.Replacement of 15 more pairs of MEMU trains to Mandya, Channapatna has been okayed.
 
 US EXPERTS TO HELP SHIFT TIPU-ERA ARMOURY
 
 Railways minister SureshPrabhu announced that the doubling of railway tracks between Mysuru and Bengaluru will be completed before March 31. “We have roped in an expert team from the USAto shift the historicarmoury of theTipuSultan era,which falls in theway ofdoubling project. Once this is done, we will be able to plan the highspeed rail link between Chennai and Mysuru via Bengaluru. A German company has already done the feasibility test for the project,“ Prabhu said.
 
 B'LURU-SHIVAMOGGA TRAIN FLAGGED OFF
 
 The much-awaited train between Bengaluru and Shivamogga was also flagged off on Monday. The train will leave KSR station in the night and arrive Shivamogga in the morning. Regular services will start from Wednesday from Yesvantpur station. “I'm keen to make sure that all towns and cities in Karnataka are connected by rail. We have already upped the budgetary outlay from Rs 900 crore to Rs 2,779 crore in the last rail budget. Investment on increasing rail track density is significant for the railways,“ said Suresh Prabhu. He also promised to look into the problems of the railway stations in Shivamogga after D H Shankarmurthy, chairman of the state Legislative Council, raised them before him.
 
 BYAPPANAHALLI TO BE WORLD-CLASS STATION
 
 Railways minister Suresh Prabhu and CM Siddaramaiah laid the foundation stone for the upgradation of the Byappanahalli railway station to the third terminal station for Bengaluru. The station, which has two platforms at present, will get seven platforms at a cost of Rs 130 crore. KSR Bengaluru and Yesvantpur are the two terminal stations at present. With the  , the railways will be able to divert 15-20 trains to and from Byappanahalli.Prabhu also announced that Byappanahalli will be upgraded to a world-class station in Karnataka. “The project will be worth Rs 500 crore and the facilities will match that of an airport,“ he said.
 
 
