Mumbai: A recent petition filed by trustees of the Tata Trust is not the first instance of   of India’s (LIC’s) investments in   companies being challenged. The corporation has faced a similar challenge from its board members in the 1990s from independent members who had questioned a life insurance company investing in tobacco. According to S B Mathur, former chairman of LIC, who is on the board of  , an independent board member had raised the issue of the corporation investing in a tobacco company in 1997. At that time,   took a view to stay invested given that the tobacco company had said that it was diversifying into non-tobacco products and most of the capital expenditure would be in non-tobacco.

 Sources in LIC said that the corporation decided to stay invested at that time as the Indian company’s battle with British American Tobacco was still fresh in the minds of investors. BAT had made a bid for acquiring control of ITC in 1996, which fell through as the government had intervened. In most takeover battles, LIC is seen to be playing the role of a white knight as it generally does not support hostile takeovers.
 
 Since then, ITC has greatly increased its investments in FMCG, paper, retail and hotels. The only fresh capital investments made by ITC in tobacco was over a decade ago when it relocated its cigarette unit from Parel to Nashik. 
 
 LIC, on its part, had not increased investments in ITC. However, earlier this year the corporation was asked by the government to pick up a 2% stake, which was being offloaded by a government arm — Specified Undertaking of the Unit Trust of India (SUUTI).
 
 Earlier this week, trustees of Tata Trusts R Venkataramanan and Laxman Sethuraman, along with five others, filed a public interest litigation (PIL) in the Bombay HC against the Union government, the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) and five state-run life insurance companies for investing in tobacco companies, including ITC and VST.
 
 
