VIJAYAWADA: Barely six months have elapsed since the   at the   (GGH) was renovated with air-conditioned labour rooms. However, new   about the facilities at the ward saying their experience at the hospital is terrifying. 

 Unhappy about the facilities provided for the attendants and the lack of privacy at the labour rooms, Rajulu, an agricultural labourer who brought her 20-year-old wife for delivery to the GGH, said, "had it not been for better treatment and expert doctors, we would have never preferred this hospital to the one in our village. At least I would have a bench to sit there and wait and my wife would have her privacy during labour. 
 
 Walking out of the hospital holding his newborn child in his arms, Rajulu thanked the doctors for helping his wife have a safe delivery. However, he lamented the lack of minimum facilities during his two-day stay at the hospital. "I did not even have a stool to sit while attending to my wife," he complained. 
 
 There is no waiting room for the attendants who come from far off places. Rajulu was particularly critical of the hospital management for lack of privacy for women in the labour room. 
 
 Rajulu's wife was more worried as men and strangers were walking in and out of the labour room without footwear. This worry had taken better of the happiness that she was delivering the first child, Rajulu said.
 
 Lakshmi, 23, a new mother from the city, also has a similar story to tell. "I came to the GGH as my doctor suggested that I go for a caesarean operation. The operation theatre is so ill-maintained that my husband got scared at first. I regret my choice of coming to the government hospital. The least a hospital can do is maintain clean environment," she said.
 
 The hospital handles nearly 5,500 delivery cases a year and 2,500 of them need caesarean operations. However, there are only 150 beds for pregnant women, new mothers and gynaecology cases as well.
 
 "There were times when we requested the patients to share beds due to shortage. Since there is no demarcation of various units (nursing station, linen room, medicine storage, patient examination room and student teaching area) here, it looks even more congested and increases the possibility of newborns prone to infection," said a nurse at the ward pleading anonymity.
 
 Hospital superintendent Dr Jagan Mohan Rao, who played an active role in bringing in the latest equipment to the ward, says that the lack of adequate staff, including the PGs, nurses and helpers, is making it a tough task to run the ward.
 
 
 -By Aanupama M
 
 
