BENGALURU: Data compiled by the   (WHO) has revealed that   ( ) remains a deadly disease in the country. India lost, on average, nearly 1,400 lives daily and more than 5 lakh people in 2015 to the disease.

 WHO’s report on TB for 2015 found that India accounted for 29% of the 1.8 million TB deaths reported across the globe, and 27% of the new cases registered worldwide. Statistics available with the Karnataka government show that there are more than 60,000 people in the state suffering from TB.
 
 On World Tobacco Day (March 24), The Lancet, a prestigious medical journal in the United Kingdom, asked India to take precautions to curb the spread of the disease before it reached the epidemic stage. 
 
 An infectious disease, caused by the bacterium Mycobacterium Tuberculosis, TB is transmitted aerially. A TB patient can potentially affect 10 or more people in a year. Taking congnisance of the prevalence of the disease in the country, the Indian government has started a campaign to rid the nation of the disorder by 2025.
 
 Among the lacunae in India’s TB programme, as pointed out by The Lancet is the country’s failure to strongly combat two key causes of the disease: malnutrition and tobacco, which have been linked to TB mortality. The journal also highlights India’s inadequate investment in the health sector. The report points out that just 1.4% of the country’s GDP is earmarked for health. “India’s Revised National Tuberculosis Control Programme (RNTCP) has struggled to receive funds commensurate with the scale of the epidemic,” the report reads.
 
 Experts and stakeholders also expressed dismay over underreporting of TB cases. “India has more than a million ‘missing’ TB cases every year that are not notified. Most remain either undiagnosed or inadequately diagnosed and treated in the private sector. For every 11 cases notified in the public sector, just one case in the private sector is documented,” a senior officer with the Karnataka health department told TOI. 
 
 Doctors opined that there were many challenges that a TB eradication drive was bound to face in India. They attributed the prevalence of the disease in the country to the failure of diagnosing the disease in the early stages.
 
 “The population is huge, and the infection goes unchecked for several years. Unless a patient gets a chest X-ray done, diagnosis is not easy. There are many quacks, especially in North India, who misdiagnose the disease and end up prescribing the wrong medicine. By then, the infected individual would have transmitted the infection. India has the second highest number of multi-drug resistant TB cases,” said DR KS Satish, consultant pulmonologist and chest physician, Vikram Hospital.
 
 More than 42 million people screened
 
 Between 2012 and 2017, more than 42 million people were screened as part of the Revised National Tuberculosis Control Programme (RNTCP), while more than seven million patients received treatment across the country.
 
 Don’t ignore these symptoms
 
 *Cough for more than two weeks
 
 *Blood streaked sputum
 
 *Fever lasting for two weeks
 
 *Weight loss
 
 *Loss of appetite 
 
 60K patients registered for treatment in K’taka
 
 Population covered under RNTCP: 6,44,00,000
 
 Smear positive patients: 41,693
 
 Patients who have registered for treatment: 59,932
 
 Source:   welfare department, Government of Karnataka
 
 
