Nagpur: Despite several strictures from Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court in last ten years, Maharashtra government’s apathy towards Indira Gandhi Government Medical College ( ) shown no sign of ending. It was confirmed through a report by amicus curiae Anup Gilda, who pointed a host of deficiencies, including inadequate security arrangements, dysfunctional police post, severe shortage of manpower, non-availability of MRI machine and others.

 After the lawyer submitted his findings in the court on Thursday, a bench of Justice Bhushan Gavai and Justice Sunil Shukre fixed the hearing for Friday. The court was hearing a PIL of CH Sharma and others, regarding lack of facilities in Government Medical Colleges and Hospitals (GMCHs) across Vidarbha.
 
 The court had earlier set a deadline of December 31 last year for completion of 250-bed hospital building (surgical complex) but government failed to meet it. The amicus curiae and government pleader Bharti Dangre visited the incomplete building on January 7. Gilda pointed out that though the building was complete the surgical complex was not operational.
 
 Moreover, the pre-operational and the post-operational theatres are not air-conditioned and proposal was pending for approval with Director of Medical Education and Research (DMER), Mumbai. He requested the court to give directives to DMER to approve the proposal immediately.
 
 Gilda added the CT scan machine functioning since last 10 years required to be replaced by a new one. He called for immediate installation of MRI machine which is a long pending demand of the patients. “The government must ensure that MRI machine is procured so patients are not required to move out of the IGGMC premises. Even Medical Council of India (MCI) norms require this machine,” he said.
 
 Pointing out large-scale vacancies, he said the 250-bed hospital would be needed to be maintained once it became operational but the requisite staff was not available. Even nursing posts are vacant in big number. “It’s in the fitness of things that staff responsible for maintenance should be appointed,” Gilda said.
 
 (With inputs from Juveriya Khan)
 
 
