GHAZIABAD: The impact of demonetisation, law and order, and infrastructure development are likely to be the major factors on top of the mind of voters when GB Nagar and Ghaziabad go to the polls on February 11.

 Polling for these two districts of NCR will be held along with 13 other districts of western UP in the first phase of elections according to the schedule announced by the   on Wednesday.
 
 Local residents and political experts, whom TOI spoke to soon after the announcement of the elction, said factors determining the outcome of elections in GB Nagar and Ghaziabad will be drastically different from the rest of UP. That is because the majority of voters in the two districts are urban-centric.
 
 The Samajwadi Party ( ), which had romped to power in UP in the 2012 elections with 224 seats, had failed to bag a single seat in GB Nagar or Ghaziabad. Its rival, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), had won six out of the eight seats in GB Nagar and Ghaziabad combined.
 
 Alok Kumar, founder of Federation of Apartment Owners’ Association (FedAOA) of Ghaziabad, said that for anyone living in GB Nagar or Ghaziabad, strict maintenance of law and order was a primary concern. “The SP has had a poor track record on the law and order front. This probably explains why GB Nagar and Ghaziabad overwhelmingly voted for Mayawati in the assembly elections of 2012 despite allegations of large-scale corruption against her government. Law and order will continue to be a huge factor in the February election in NCR this time too since safety and security remains on top of the mind of the urban residents settled here,” Alok Kumar said.
 
 However, two years after the assembly election, the voting pattern in the eight assembly segments in GB Nagar and Ghaziabad had overwhelmingly tilted towards the   when polling was held for the 2014 general elections. The BJP had led in all eight assembly segments across the two districts in the general elections. The SP had trailed second in all three assembly segments in GB Nagar. In Ghaziabad, Congress had trailed second in three assembly segments while the BSP had trailed second in two segments.
 
 The massive tilt towards BJP in GB Nagar and Ghaziabad in the general election of 2014 was partially attributed by political experts to the ‘Modi wave’. Lucknow-based political analyst Sharat Pradhan said that the agenda of development propounded by BJP also went down well with the voters in the two urban centres in 2014. “Akhilesh Yadav is expected to be favored by voters if his development works in the region are to be analysed. He has ensured more development in the region than any other UP chief minister ever. However, law and order will be his nemesis because his government’s track record on this front has been poor across the state,” Pradhan said.
 
 “A likely fallout of demonetisation is that a substantial section of BSP’s captive vote bank comprising the poor might tilt towards the BJP in the NCR cutting across caste lines,” Pradhan said.
 
 
