They are alienated, humiliated and ill-treated, and Saturday’s episode was a brutal reminder of those very things that make us a regressive, heartless society. Queer activists and morally-responsible citizens of the city say they’re shocked, but not surprised by the incident. Hyderabad Times hears them out.

 
 
 This is simply unacceptable. Even if the   was trespassing, the Army men, instead of assaulting and sexually abusing her, could have simply asked her to leave. Is that so difficult to do? Why do they have to put up a show of masculinity? This is not the first time that atrocities against thecommunity have been committed. Be it the army or the police, they have always been offensive towards thecommunity; it has become a general norm. And as for the police’s version of not taking action against the perpetrators, I am not at all surprised. The cops have always played the jurisdiction card in cases such as this; theexcuse is getting old now.— Tashi Choedup, Queer activist and aBuddhist monk
 
 
 
 
 This is not the first time that the members of the transgender community have been bullied and beaten up in Hyderabad. From experience, I can tell you that the cops have always been highly insensitive in such cases against the community and often back the offender. Even for this, they refused to register a case saying that the transgender woman was a trespasser. The Army men could have asked her to leave the premises along with a warning, but no, they had to physically assault her. What were they trying to prove? Was she a terrorist? We are planning to register a case against the Army personnel
 involved in the incident.— SandY, Queer activist
 
 
 
 This incident shows how cruel, unaffectionate and unfair the society is towards the transgender community. The incident thathappened with the transwomen on Secunderabad Parade Ground is undemocratic and it’s high time we raise our voice against these recurring incidents. Enough is enough. It’s saddening to see members of the community being denied entry to many a public place — be it malls,hotels, pubs, etc. The transgender community is suffering every day in silence. It is also disheartening to see the law enforcement authorities not doing anything to curb such incidents in the city. 
 — Achyuta Suneetha, Research fellow, Anveshi Research Centre for Women’s Studies
 
 
 I believe such incidents have everything to do with the upbringing of the offenders. It’s very shameful for us Hyderabadis when we compare the way our society treats transgenders with that of our neighbouring state, Kerala. The people of Kerala have opened their homes to the transgender community and they have been provided with options to earn their livelihood. But in Hyderabad, they are subjected to atrocities of various degrees every day. As a remedy, I would like curriculum on sex education in school to go beyond sexual intercourse to focus on gender issues.I condemn what happened with the transwoman that day.— Rajib Das Mukherjee, Associate at a life science company
 
  
 It’s been three years and three months since the Supreme Court gave its landmark hearing in the Nalsa Vs Union of India case recognising transgenders as the ‘third gender’. We are entitled to education, enjoyment and livelihood in this country, but incidents like this prove that the apex court’s order is far from being enforced in society. Many transgenders today earn their living by begging and as sex workers. Hence, the society tags them as ‘available’. They don’t understand that ‘no’ means ‘no’. In this case, the Army men meted sexual brutality to the survivor. The Army is supposed to be the custodian of the Constitution, and cases such as this raise serious concerns over their integrity. — Vyjayanti Vasanta Mogli, Queer activist
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
