Mumbai: It’s an endless debate on which kind of CEO — professional or promoter/shareholder — is a good bet for an organisation. N Chandrasekaran’s appointment to the top post at   has tilted the scales in favour of professional CEOs. Chandrasekaran is the first professional CEO to helm the Tata Group as chairman. Hiring experts believe the trend will only grow strong as more promoter-led groups look to leverage value-creation that   bring to an organisation.

 As demand for professional CEOs rises, so will their remuneration. Any dip in salaries on account of economic issues, said experts, would only be temporary in nature. TOI had recently done a report on compensation of executives from top 200 companies with EMA Partners, which revealed how professional CEOs had outnumbered promoter CEOs in the million-dollar salary club. In 2015-16, 61 professional CEOs took home a pay package of Rs 6.5 crore, or roughly a million dollars, compared with 58   who form part of the million-dollar club.
 
 K Sudarshan, managing partner, EMA Partners India, said, “We have seen the tipping point for professional CEOs in India’s listed companies. This is indeed a reflection of the coming of age of Indian enterprises where professional CEOs have started making substantial impact and have also been handsomely rewarded.”
 
 Sonal Agrawal, managing partner, Accord India, said, “Owners hire professional CEOs when it makes business sense to do so. It’s an owner’s call. If a professional CEO is better equipped to run a business and can create value for the business, the promoter can have the bandwidth to focus on other areas like strategy.”
 
 In Chandrasekaran’s case, experts said his ability to bring about a possible digital transformation at the Tata Group — which can vary from intelligent cars to intelligent hospitality — and his leadership qualities of bringing about a cost-focused growth, make him the right choice for the post.
 
 Over the years, several organisations like Infosys, Wipro, Godrej and Marico have hired professional CEOs to lead companies. In some cases, the promoter continues to have an overarching hold, but by and large the CEO is given a free hand to run the show. Wherever there is a promoter and CEO working in tandem at an organisation, the success factor is determined by the equation they share as also their correlative skills and abilities.
 
 Industry experts said management styles of   and Chandrasekaran vary and so do their skills, which do not overlap. This could create an ideal situation of a complementary management of the group.
 
 As the trend of hiring professional CEOs grows, experts said organisations will have to be prepared to invest in the process of identifying high potentials, grooming them and retaining them, to create a pipeline of talent ready to take on the mantle when the time comes. This, they reckon, could even take 15-20 years.
 
 Suresh Raina, managing partner, Hunt-Partners, said, “The need to bring in professional CEOs will only become more accentuated as businesses become more complex and mature. The organisation has a need for both the professional CEO and the promoter shareholder. The promoter thinks about the business as no one else can, but sooner or later the business will outlive the promoter and the next generation steps in. As in the case of the Tata Group, having a promoter as the executive is always a rare event, similar to a Ford family member being the CEO of Ford Motor Corporation.”
 
 
