NEW DELHI: Rising Pune Supergiant thrashed Royal Challengers Bangalore in a one-sided contest to register a big 61-run win in an Indian Premier League clash on Saturday. After being asked to bat, riding on captain Steve Smith's 45 and Manoj Tiwary's unbeaten 44, Pune posted 157/3 and then their bowlers combined for a superlative effort to restrict RCB to 96/9 with Imran Tahir taking 3/18 and Lockie Ferguson 2/7. 

 Here we sum up the match in five points
 
 
 
 Royal Challengers put Pune Supergiant in to bat and took the early initiative with the scalp of Ajinkya Rahane within the Powerplay overs. Adam Milne and Samuel Badree bowled well for their respective first overs before in-form Rahul Tripathi changed the mood with two fours in three balls. A shocker from Virat Kohli as he dropped a dolly at mid-on gave Tripathi a life on 11. The dismissal of Rahane didn't deter Tripathi who then went on to smoke Sreenath Aravind for a six and clatter two fours off Yuzvendra Chahal and to close the Powerplay overs with his team managing 43/1. But boundaries dried up after the lifting of fielding restrictions. RCB made two changes with Pawan Negi and Stuart Binny slowing down the game. The pressure got to Tripathi who in his effort to cut Negi outside edged one to wicketkeeper to be caught for 37. After 10 overs, Pune had just managed 67 runs for the cost of two wickets.
 
 
 
 The run-rate was below seven at the halfway stage but Pune had their skipper Steve Smith in the middle. Negi was swiftly going through his overs and had bowled three overs at the cost of 16 runs and a wicket. Badree had bowled two overs in the Powerplay, Kohli recalled him for the 12th over of Pune innings and Smith singled out the legspinners to break the shackles. A tossed-up delivery was slog swept for a six over long-on followed by two fours. A single off the last made the total from the over to 16 runs. This took the scoring rate past seven and brought the home crowd alive. Tiwary, batting for the first time at No 4 this IPL season, joined the fun with a six of his own off Chahal in the next. It was a period of frenzied activity as far as Pune innings goes. In the space of three overs, they had added 40 runs. But Binny, after being hit for two fours by the Australian skipper, had him out caught at deep square leg for 45 denting Pune's hopes of a competitive total. 
 
 
 
 Pune's innings never got going. Their batsmen blazed in patches. If during the Powerplay, it was through Tripathi then in the middle overs, it was captain Smith who dazzled. In the final stages, despite seven wickets remaining, the late surge never arrived. The last five overs saw them collect 46 runs with Dhoni scoring 21 runs including two fours in an over and a straight six off Aravind. Adam Milne and Aravind bowled cleverly to make sure Dhoni and Tiwary had to work hard for even singles and doubles, let alone boundaries. Tiwary remained unbeaten on 44 as RPS posted a decent 157/3.
 
 
 
 RCB chase began in a similar fashion to that of Pune's innings. They lost opener Travis Head early as he inside edged one from Jaydev Unadkat that just about managed to disturb the bail. The other opener, Virat Kohli, was in better touch. He collected three fours in four balls off Deepak Chahar in the third over – two off full deliveries and one a lucky edge rolling to third man boundary. For company, he had AB de Villiers but he ended up driving one from paceman Lockie Ferguson straight into the hands of short cover fielder to be caught for 3. After the end of Powerplay, RCB were 39/2 – a similar start but at the cost of an extra wicket.
 
 
 
 For the third time in a row, RCB have been let down by a poor show from their batsmen. Not even the likes of Kohli and AB de Villiers have fired on all cylinders this season while others have simply wilted under the pressure. For RCB, the Powerplay was their best phase as far as the batting is considered because what happened after that has become a trend for them this year. Their batting scorecard makes for a poor reading. 2,55,3,7,2,1,3,5,2,4,4 – this what their batsmen managed against Pune in chase of 158. The scorline will suggest a spiteful pitch but it was far from it. Barring captain Kohli who struck his second fifty of the season, the rest managed a combined 41. The slide began after a terrible mixup between Kohli and Kedar Jadhav resulting in the latter being run out for 7. A dab to point and Kohli set off for a single. The throw went the bowler's end who failed to collect it cleanly. Spotting this, Jadhav at the striker's end set off for a single without waiting for Kohli's signal. Before he was sent back, Jahav had covered over half the distance giving the bowler ample time to collect and fire the throw to the keeper to do the rest. Ferguson was excellent – just seven runs for two wickets in his four overs. LegspinnerImran Tahir consolidated his grip over the purple cap with three more wickets. 
 
