GURUGRAM: Back in 2003, Sudhir Sachdeva had considered himself lucky when he bought a plotted house in clean and green Sushant Lok 1. But it took just a few years for things to change. Cars now honked while earlier birds sang. And in place of the blue sky was now a perpetual haze of smoke and dust. 

 Sachdevas are among many such Delhiites who, lured by clean air, green vistas and a quiet ambience, moved out of the national capital and settled in   in the late 1990s and early 2000s. Today, many of them regret their decision.
 
 “As Delhi was getting more congested and polluted, I had decided to move to Gurgaon after my marriage. We enjoyed our first 5-6 years of stay here,” he recalled. 
 
 “But in the past 10 years or so, the city lost its charm and serenity. Over 50 % of the greenery disappeared, massive construction and increased traffic volume pushed pollution levels up to unprecedented levels, turning Gurgaon into a gas chamber,” said Sudhir.
 
 Having spent around 14 years in the city, his wife Ninisha today wishes she could go back to Delhi. “It is definitely disheartening to see a green, peaceful city turning into a polluted, congested and messy place. Most of the days, I wake up with a sore throat. My son Shreyash (9) keeps getting throat infection. Doctors say it is because of the rising pollution. I feel sad when I compare my childhood with his,” she said.
 
 But life must go on. Thus, the couple has found out various ways, like using air purifier, to minimise the ill-effects of pollution as much as possible. “My son is fond of sports, so I take him to playgrounds located in the Aravalis, far from the dusty city. We can’t restrict his outdoor movement, so we make sure he wears a mask whenever he steps out. Clean air is a basic right that every living being in the world should have. Unfortunately, the young generation is deprived of it,” Sudhir said.
 
 Similarly,   (77) and her family had shifted from their house in Greater Kailash to a bungalow in DLF Phase 1 in search of a spacious and greener neighbourhood in 1998. 
 
 “Greater Kailash was getting congested and polluted while DLF Phase 1 was quiet and covered with dense trees back then. One could hear chirping of koels and peacocks every morning. But, everything has changed in the last 8-10 years. Now, Gurgaon is worse than Delhi due to rampant, unplanned construction and rising traffic volume,” said Seema.
 
 Her husband   said he never thought Gurgaon would turn out to be like this. “Around five years ago, we decided to move out DLF Phase 1 as the green cover was gradually vanishing with the construction of more and more townships in the area,” said Anil, who now lives with the family at  , an upscale condominium, in Sector 53. 
 
 The elderly couple tries to avoid going out during the daytime. “I go for a morning walk around 5.30-6am. The air quality is better then. Besides, we have a big balcony garden, which helps purify the indoor air to some extent,” he added.
 
 
