MUMBAI: Monday turned out to be harrowing for 2.35 lakh   ( ) aspirants as the education department failed to announce the first   until late night, keeping students on tenterhooks. The list was to be announced at 5 pm.

 It is the first year that Noida-based Nysa Asia is managing the web portal for the centralized admission  . “It could not complete processing the merit lists in time. It began work on it only on Monday morning. Once the list was verified and ready, uploading required a lot of time,” said Rajendra Ahire, assistant deputy director of education, Mumbai.
 
 Seat allotments for students in other parts of the state, such as Pune and Nashik, was completed around 9 pm. But students in Mumbai continued to wait. “This is very frustrating as we have been waiting so long. The education system should have found a way to keep a check on uniformity and punctuality of the process,” said Khushi Chhadva, a student who scored 95.80%. She had reached HR College, Churchgate, to check the merit list.
 
 Until late on Monday night, the ticker said the seat allocation list would be declared after 7 pm. The   could not be accessed for almost two hours from 7.30 pm. “I started refreshing the website exactly at 5 pm. Then a ticker started scrolling, informing us about the delay but we were so anxious that we kept trying. It is important for me right now,” said Sushen Nare, a Commerce aspirant who scored 93%.
 
 B B Chavan, deputy director of education, Mumbai, said, “It is the first time the agency is handling the process, so there seems to be a problem. We have been told the list will be uploaded before midnight.” The list will be out before   start on Tuesday morning, so there will not be a need to alter the admission schedule, he added.
 
 On June 21, the portal had to be shut down as a technical glitch did not allow students to fill up admission forms. This had also   the entire process by three days, and the start of the academic year by almost a week. A representative from Nysa told TOI, “Work is in progress. There were changes in the intake capacity and other data. We will ensure there is no delay in the further lists.”
 
 Principals said they were worried about the confusion on Tuesday. “Admissions start on Tuesday morning and we are expecting students to come in large numbers. It will be difficult for us to manage crowds. The detailed schedule shown to us said the agency would process the data on July 7, 8 and 9, but that clearly seems to have not happened,” said the principal of a school and junior college.
 
