Nagpur: State Anti-corruption bureau (ACB) claimed to have been chasing around an untraceable Indira Gandhi government medical college and hospital (IGMCH) dean Dr   (Wahane) on Tuesday despite the fact that she was present at the same office where she was trapped. 

 A day after Dr Gajbhiye was booked for accepting bribe of Rs 15,000 for clearing medical bills of around Rs 2.94 lakhs, IGGMCH sources claimed that she had returned to office late in the evening just after ACB officials had left the place. 
 
 Dr Gajbhiye, who was asked by the ACB to appear at its office on Tuesday, supposedly opted to play hide-and-seek game with the anti-graft agency. Her co-accused mess contractor Vijay Mishra, who had dutifully turned up as per the ACB’s instruction, was under arrest. He would be produced before the special court on Wednesday.
 
 ACB claimed that it conducted searches at the residence and office of Dr Gajbhiye though she managed to remain elusive even after 24 hours of the incident. 
 
 ACB Nagpur region, SP,  , left irked by Dr Gajbhiye’s non-cooperative stance, claimed that his unit had missed the fleeing dean from her office by a whisker after receiving information about her presence at the hospital. Darade also criticised the senior medical officer associating her with one ‘having criminal mentality’. With Dr Gajbhiye’s counsels approaching the special ACB court for granting of anticipatory bail, strong rumour have now started doing the rounds that she was purposely given the long rope by the anti-graft agency to ensure pre-arrest bail. 
 
 The ACB unit chief Darade said that Dr Gajbhiye had to be let off after being trapped as the action had taken place after the sunset. “As per the supreme court guidelines, woman cannot be arrested between sunset and sunrise but we had issued her a notice expecting the official to turn up at ACB office which she avoided. Dr Gajbhiye’s attitude to avoid ACB office not only underlined her culpability but also strengthen our case. ACB would nab her anyway,” he said.
 
 While ACB was waiting for Dr Gajbhiye, she was at the college. It was confirmed from the college administration that, on Tuesday, she acted as the official dean. A professor from the college revealed she came in the morning, performed all the routine work like taking the hospital round and writing the memo. It was learn that she was at IGMCH till 1:30pm.
 
 State medical education minister Girish Mahajan told TOI, “I will be checking her status tomorrow morning, if the ACB declares her status as absconded we will be giving her charge to someone else.” According to sources working at IGMCH, Gajbhiye has told them that she is innocent. “According to Gajbhiye, she hasn’t intended to take any sort of bribe and the whole act of making her look like a criminal was conspired by Mishra,” sources said.
 
 Sources also said that she also communicated her side of the story to Mahajan.
 
