CHANDIGARH: The newly-formed Captain   government in Punjab has dealt a first blow to Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) after it announced on Saturday to review the transport policy as well as stayed all decisions taken by   six months up to elections.

 The decision may hurt Akali supremo Sukhbir Singh Badal’s own business interests even as since his induction as chief minister, Amarinder has so far maintained that he would not allow any room for vendetta cases against the Badal regime. Sukhbir runs two private firms Orbit Aviation and Dabwali Transport.
 
 “The government has decided to open up the transport sector, and ensure free and fair grant of licenses for buses, mini buses and other commercial vehicles in a transparent way, thus freeing the sector of the SAD stranglehold,” said a strongly-worded cabinet note.
 
 “It will review all the private bus policies introduced during the Akali regime,” it added. During the SAD rule, Congress led by   and Amarinder had directly accused Akali supremo Sukhbir of being beneficiaries of Punjab government's skewed transport policies.
 
 The war of words between Congress and SAD had turned ugly when a 13-year-old teen was allegedly molested and killed while travelling inside Sukhbir’s bus in May, 2015, triggering state-wide protests.
 
 Congress also announced to abolish the 50-year-old posts of district transport officers (DTO). Complaints of graft over fancy VVIP numbers for vehicles and license for private transport firms had flooded Punjab’s vigilance bureau (VB) in the last 10 years.
 
 "The government has decided to reassign and distribute the work of DTO offices to the SDMs for their respective territorial jurisdiction. The government notes that the DTO post had been abolished by Haryana about a decade ago" the note said. Sukhbir’s first cousin  , who has been made finance minister by Amarinder, told media, “The monopolization of buses would soon end. The mafia raj would be dismantled. We will not tolerate of concentration of power into one hands.” Manpreet did not directly mention Sukhbir's firms.
 
 
 
 
 The cabinet note also mentioned that a proposal to abolish the Improvement Trusts and amalgamate their activities with the concerned municipal corportions and councils is being considered and local bodies minister   would take a call on this. The trusts were used by the SAD during their regime to appoint chairmen and members.
 
