NAGPUR: Condemning the   reservation terms,   (RPI) on Saturday said that the provisions were against the weaker section of the society.

 Niranjan Wasnik, Ghansham Fuse, Vishwas Patil and others were present during the protest which was held at the Samvidhan Chowk. According to RPI, continuous changes in the rules of RTE is causing many inconvenience to the students and their parents. 
 
 Under the RTE Act, 25% reservation in the education system is not helping the students of weaker section as they are asked to provide number of documents for the admission.
 
 The RPI alleged that the compulsion of attaching registered home agreement is not possible for a bigger section of society as they live in rented houses.
 
  “The terms and conditions in the RTE for reservation are not proper as most of the students from weaker sections cannot provide the registered agreement, and according to the ‘Education for All’ scheme compulsory education must be provided till the age of 14 to everyone,” said  , city convener of RPI. 
 
 “Initially the notary rent agreements used to be accepted but now they have also cancelled those procedures saying that illegal certificates are also created. If they think fake certificates areare being circulated they should take action on the advocates who made them, the poor children should not suffer,” said  , a RPI member.
 
 RPI members raised slogans of ‘shikshan Mantri murdabad’, ‘Jachak ati radda kara’, Shikshan sanghathan nai kuchaya bappach’. 
 
 Another member of RPI, Sudhir Patil said, “Many students living in slums need free and compulsory education but these terms and conditions are not making it easy for them to acquire education.”
 
 The RPI members are demanding that the changes must be done in the terms of RTE reservation so that the weaker section can take more profit from the scheme. They have also submitted a copy of their request to the collector of Nagpur. The member also added if their demands are not fulfilled they will make their protest more strong and can also file petition in the High Court.
 
