Bhopal: Chief minister Shivraj Singh announced that entire Madhya Pradesh will be made open defecation free (ODF) till 2019. He made the announcement at a function in Indore on Sunday, the Prime Minister, Narendra Modi’s birthday which was observed as Sewa Diwas in the state.

 Madhya Pradesh ministers gave voluntary service in digging pits for toilets and supervised the drive to build two lakh pits in the state across theb state. 
 
 At Indore, Chouhan said the city has bagged first position in Cleanliness Survey-2016 nationally. Citizens of Indore deserve congratulations, he said.
 
 It is a matter of pride for Madhya Pradesh government. It is not easy to bag the top position in the country and more so, it will be extremely difficult and a challenge to stay on top.
 
 Earlier in the day, Chouhan participated in the ‘Swachhta Hi Sewa’ campaign at village Ratanpur of Raisen district.
 
 He started the campaign by digging twin pit at village Ratanpur situated on Sanchi-Raisen road. Chouhan said the campaign has been started to make the villages clean.
 
 A target has been set to dig 2 lakh pits in the day itself in the state under the campaign. Moreover, Chouhan informed that the entire Raisen district will be declared open defecation free till November 19.
 
 Chouhan undertook voluntary service (Shramdaan) for construction of toilet at the residence of Ganpat Adivasi of village Kaneri – gram panchayat Surajpur district Chhatarpur and gave a message of sanitation.
 
 Chouhan mentioned that Swachhata Abhiyan is being undertaken in the entire country on the call of the Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The campaign has yielded positive results. All the villages and cities of Madhya Pradesh will be made open defecation free till 2019.
 
 He said that cleanliness is a movement. The movement can get success only by bringing changes in the attitude of the people along with their cooperation.
 
 He appealed to the families of the state who do not have toilets at their homes, he mentioned that citizens of the state should take resolution not to go for open defecation then only clean India will be built. Chouhan flagged off the Sawchchta Rath in Raisen to reach door to door in villages on the occasion.
 
 Expressing happiness for successful Swachhata Abhiyan in Indore, Chouhan said that cleanliness is a passion. Owing to this passion 22 cities belongs to Madhya Pradesh in this Cleanliness Survey -2016 out of 100 selected cities of the country.
 
 Construction of toilets in rural areas will not serve the purpose unless we use them. Special efforts will be made till Gandhi Jayanti on October 2 under the campaign in areas where results have not been on expected lines under the campaign, he said.
 
 Furthermore, Chouhan mentioned that less than 50% rainfall has been recorded in Chhatarpur district this year. Drought situation is possible due to less rainfall. The state government will provide all possible assistance to tackle drought crisis, the CM added.
 
 
