LUCKNOW: Will the BSP led by Mayawati avoid contesting the Lok Sabha bypolls and stop division of the anti-BJP votebank and help the Congress and Akhilesh Yadav-led Samajwadi Party? Bypolls for two Lok Sabha seats–Gorakhpur (vacated by CM  ) and Phulpur (vacated by Deputy CM Keshav Maurya)–are due in five months.

 The BSP think-tank is learnt to be weighing strongly the option of skipping the Lok Sabha bypoll and use it as an opportunity to send feelers of bonhomie to SP and Congress in return for support during   elections. Mayawati’s term expires in April next year. With barely 19 seats in her kitty, Mayawati is not likely to get elected to RS unless she has support of SP and Congress.
 
 “Behenji (Mayawati) will need support of all anti-BJP forces, including SP,” said a senior BSP leader. Party sources said it would be hard for Mayawati to defeat BJP in its stronghold, Gorakhpur, which has been represented by its firebrand MP and the incumbent, Yogi Adityanath since 1998. She is also wary of fielding a candidate in Phulpur parliamentary seat which was won by BSP’s Kapilmuni Karwariya in 2009 Lok Sabha elections. Karwariya, who lost to Maurya in 2014 was sacked from BSP in 2016. He later joined BJP and managed to get a ticket for his wife Neelam in UP assembly elections from Meja and she won.
 
 “Strong emergence of BJP in UP is sure to get all anti-BJP forces into a political bargaining process ahead of 2019 Lok Sabha elections,” said political expert J P Shukla. Vote bank of SP and BSP shifted in favour of BJP during 2014 Lok Sabha elections and then in UP assembly elections and BJP’s vote share was 39.7%, while the share of SP and BSP was 21.8 and 22.6%, respectively. Congress was restricted to barely 6.2%.
 
 Soon after the seventh phase of polling in UP elections, Akhilesh had dropped feelers of a potential tie with “all secular” forces. Political experts said Mayawati had then not objected to Akhilesh’s statement, triggering chances of a Bihar-like Mahagathbandhan to arrest chances of BJP storming to power in UP. After BSP and SP faced rout in state elections and Mayawati accused BJP of tampering with the EVMs, SP leaders supported her.
 
