It is a cry for help to nurture the traditional arts and craft in   and 80 km away in Hariharpur in  . Nizamabad is home to exquisite black pottery with intricate silver inlay work that enjoys a geographical indication status. In the town’s bylanes about 70 potter families live, every man, woman and child is at a potter’s wheel — moulding, etching, polishing or scraping the surface of a clay artefact.

 Despite mastery of their craft, they still live in huts. “There is no institutional support to this art form. Artists are giving up on black pottery; work on the saleable designs in clay,” says Mayank Prasad Prajapati, as he shapes diyas for an order from Mumbai.
 
 As politicos hunt for votes, the Prajapatis of Nizamabad are a forgotten lot. “Just four families continue in this trade: it is tough and the material costs have gone up. Despite the much-hyped GI tag to Nizamabad black pottery, we get no support to export or any government help to push sales,” he added. The prajapatis, originally from Gujarat’s Kutch, are a backward class artisan community who settled in Nizamabad during Aurangzeb’s rule. They mostly vote for BJP. “Modi promised to provide for artisans, as did  . But our conditions have only worsened. Neither SP, nor BJP delivered. Our tradition is dying,” says Anand Prajapati, a sixth generation potter.
 
 Hariharpur, about 80km away, is known as Azamgarh’s musical village where the lore is that even month-old babies respond to notes of ‘sargam’. Here, 80 Brahmin families are struggling to preserve the rich legacy of their classical and folk music. Padma awardee Pt Chhannu Lal Mishra belongs to this village.
 
 Pt Ajay Mishra, who lives in Mumbai but frequents his home in Hariharpur says the Mishras settled in Hariharpur as court performers of Azam Fateh Khan of Azamgarh almost 600 years ago. Says Mishra: “Hariharpur suffers on two accounts. One, the village is in Azamgarh that’s tagged as being a hotbed of radical activities, and two, netas do not promote the region’s music that can restore the area’s image of its rich heritage.”
 
 The orthodox Mishras try to keep their tradition and spirits from fl agging. Even today the women stay indoors, but boys as young as 6 and 10 years old accompany music troops to perform at state and national levels. Suraj Mishra, 19, a tabla player of the Hariharpur gharana, says, “A group of us won the gold at the Indian Youth Festival in Haryana. Not so much as a murmur on our return. But the DM won a gold in some event and media cobered it for three days!” says the crestfallen teenager.
 
 “Artists want respect. The local SP MLA Durga Yadav expects us to be at his beck and call,” rues Mishra ending with a plea: “This village needs help to promote local musical tradition.”
 
