MADURAI: In spite of the various initiatives undertaken in the city, the   has slipped in the   from 26th place last year to 57th this year. Lack of sustained efforts and people’s participation is stated to be the prime reason for the fall.

 Absence of a proper   is believed to have played a key role in pulling the city down the ranks. ``In the last four to five years many high-rises have come up across the city putting a bigger burden on the drainage system which had to be upgraded accordingly. However, the corporation does not concentrate on this important aspect,’’ says S V Pathy, founder, Centre for Environmental Services. According to him, there were many underground drains which were redundant like the one laid in Gomathypuram area and almost all the drains lacked a proper pumping system.
 
 Madurai Corporation had extended its boundaries by 17 kms after 28 new wards were added. However, the extensions were not supported by infrastructural and other facilities on par with the rest of the city. The extended areas still continue to have panchayat-level facilities with only 40 per cent of the newly added areas having potable water supply. Open defecation is rampant in almost all these areas and though many public toilets have been constructed, the people are unable to use it for want of water.
 
 Garbage is another factor which continues to effect the ranking negatively. “Source segregation is not done in most houses in the city and the authorities and politicians seem to think that development means shifting markets. Three major markets are located in Maatuthavani but with a major portion of the city’s garbage being generated in them, it was not managed properly. Garbage management should be decentralized,” he said.
 
 According to experts, Madurai has also been deprived of  . The corporation has been announcing fund allocations for laying roads but restricts it to just patch works on the existing roads. Almost all traffic junctions were a hazard with the lights located far away from the eye level of the drivers and almost all important junctions not having pedestrian crossing or pedestrian pathways, which is stressed under the programme, they point out. Madurai was promised five flyovers since 2001 and every corporation budget has been announcing them. However, they have been relegated to mere announcements for the past 16 years.
 
 On the drinking water front, only 60 per cent of the people in the city got it from the corporation. Even Tallakulam which has existed in the corporation since 1972 is now a ‘minus supply’ area. “Hence the funds allocated should be used for improving existing infrastructure for better management and people should be made to become more responsible, he added.
 
 District secretary of Makkal Sakthi Iyakkam A Asokan says that one reason for the city going down in ranking was the   of the city from 72 to 100 wards. “They continue to allocate funds for only the older wards while the new 28 wards were being taxed only slightly more than the panchayat tax. This did not bring any revenue to the coffers for development,’’ he said. Also, there was an acute labour shortage which made all works lag behind and the authorities continued to mismanage the entire administration.
 
