KOLKATA: Students of   will now get the opportunity to study in some of the world’s top universities for a semester or two.

 On Thursday, the IIT-Kgp senate will give a formal nod to the Semester Away Programme that will allow both undergraduate and postgraduate students to avail themselves of this opportunity from this year at their own cost. The initiative is different from student-exchange programmes offer-ed by other institutes in India.
 
 “Under this programme, a student will be able to choose courses offered in an institution in India or abroad, take approval from the faculty and apply. The chosen university need not be one with which IIT-Kgp has a memorandum of understanding. If chosen, he can study there for a maximum of two semesters,” said P K Das, dean of post-graduate programme at IIT-Kgp. At the UG level, a student would have to complete four semesters with a CGPA of more than 7 (with no backlog) in order to be eligible provided there are no disciplinary action pending against him/her. A PG candidate will have to complete two semesters (4 semesters for MMST students) with a CGPA more than 7(with no backlog) and no pending disciplinary action.
 
 The course fee for the SAP will have to be arranged by the students. 
 
 “On successful completion of the programme, students will stand the chance of getting their credits at IIT-Kgp waived against the credits earned through SAP. It will depend on the courses they opt,” said  , deputy director of IIT-Kgp.
 
 If a student chooses a course for which he cannot get his credits waived, he will be allowed to complete the pending semesters at IIT-Kgp within an additional six months. “Studying in top universities across the globe will add value to the CVs of the students. The national and international exposure will make them more employable. Under such a scenario, even if they have to complete their pending semesters at IIT-Kgp by studying for an additional six months, they will only stand to gain,” added Das.
 
 For the moment, the students will have to arrange their own funds or look to bag scholarships. The tuition fees would come down if IIT-Kgp has an MoU with the host university. Later, the institute will try to arrange for some alumni endowment to back the programme.
 
 “We have already held discussions with   and several varsities in Australia. They are keen to be a part of the programme,” said Bhattacharyya.
 
 The hostel fee at IIT-Kgp will be waived only if the student vacates his room and hand over the keys to the warden. Also, the mess fee will be waived for the complete period of absence.
 
 Application deadline for the autumn semester is March 31 and for the spring semester July 31. 
 
