NEW DELHI: The president of Turkey,  , on Monday urged the youth not to “believe in what the   says” about his country. They should also “quash any prejudice they have” against Turkey, he said at a special convocation at  .

 Erdogan, on a two-day state visit to India, was felicitated by the university with a ‘honoris causa’ (doctorate of letters) for strengthening the “relationship between Turkey and India”. Accepting the degree “on behalf of the Turkish people”, Erdogan said he was “happy to receive the honour from such an august institution”.
 
 Speaking at the MA Ansari auditorium, named after a co-founder of   who had led a medical mission to treat wounded Turkish soldiers during Balkan Wars, thanked Indians for the “support they gave the Turkish people”.
 
 Citing the familiarities between the two cultures, he said “culture and education” were potential areas that could take the relationship to the next level. He also referred to the popularity of many Turkish TV serials in India and said Indians could also view Turkish news channels to get the real picture.
 
 Moshin Ali, founder of Jamia’s Turkish department, agreed. “One cannot know about Turkey and its culture and the political landscape through the western media, which can be biased.” However, Erdogan rued that though “it takes only five hours and 35 minutes to reach Turkey, the level of relationship that should have been there is not there”. Emphasising that the Turkish scholarship programme is quite popular among Indians, he promised to improve ties between Jamia and Turkish varsities.
 
 Supporting India’s bid for a permanent seat in the UN Security Council, he said, “India, with a population of 1.3 billion, is not part of UNSC. Over 1.7 billion people live in the Islamic world but they too are not a part of UNSC... Only five permanent members are deciding the fate of the entire world which is not fair.” Jamia, the only Indian university to offer a bachelor programme in Turkish language and literature, will have a PGdegree programme from next year. Vice-chancellor Talat Ahmad said Jamia would increase student and teacher exchange programmes with Turkey.
 
