VISAKHAPATNAM: The city police foiled a major dacoity planned by a notorious Bihari gang that loots gold ornaments and cash from mortgage firms and banks. 

 City cops seized five 0.32 new pistols, one tapancha (country made pistol), 80 rounds of 0.32 pistols and five rounds of 8 mm bullets and a new Pulsar bike without a number plate from a locked room on the terrace of Srivatsa Apartments in Maharanipeta area on Thursday. 
 
 The gang, led by   alias Kumar Gurav of Nalanda district in Bihar, had committed robberies in Nagpur area in Mau district of Uttar Pradesh in July 2016 and Barrackpore in North 24 Parganas district in West Bengal in December 2016. Since then they have been under the radar of the cops.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (crime wing) T   said on Thursday, they received information from Bengal police about the presence of the gang in the city. The gang had decamped with around 30 kgs gold each from   branch office from Nagpur and Barrackpore.
 
 The modus operandi of the gang is to initially take shelter in the area where they plan to commit the offence. They then buy high speed motorcycles and recce the gold finance company office. “They visit the place when there are no customers or less customers, preferably at the time of opening or closing of the branch. They then rob them at gun point,” the DCP said. 
 
 Likewise they planned to commit offences in Visakhapatnam. Two members of the gang Thakur Singh and Sunny Kumar Singh arrived in the city on January 29 and were waiting for the others to come. They took shelter and also visited Manappuram, Muttoot gold finance offices and two nationalised banks. They were supposed to meet gang leader Subodh Kumar at RK Beach on February 6. Bengal cops have already arrested six persons including one in Rajahmundry, two in Poosapatirega with the help of AP police and three in Bengal. Following the arrests, city cops have been conducting searches at lodges, guest houses and other places and had also alerted gold finance companies, the DCP said. Finally, a dump was unearthed on Thursday. Thakur and Sunny Singh were arrested by the Bengal cops with the help of city police recently. Subodh Kumar Singh is absconding. 
 
 City cops seized five 0.32 new pistols, one tapancha (country made pistol), 80 rounds of 0.32 pistols and five rounds of 8 mm bullets and a new Pulsar bike without a number plate from a locked room in Maharanipeta area
 
 
