KOLKATA: He is known as the ‘Dabang neta’ in the Port area for picking up fights with all and sundry and his ability to mobilise a few hundred youths in minutes. On Wednesday, he put his talent to maximum use when a mob, furious over the “negligence of doctors”, went on the rampage by vandalising the lobby of   and assaulting staffers.

 On Thursday afternoon, TOI met the neta at a tea shop in  , where he runs his vehicle parking empire that many allege is illegal. His identity is not being revealed as no complaint has been lodged against him though he can be clearly seen in the visuals of vandalism.
 
 “Calcutta Hospital main yeh regularly hota hai. Mere paas bohut shikayat aayi hai (Deaths due to negligence has become frequent in the hospital. I have received several complaints),” said the neta with a hint of pride in his voice over his feat.
 
 Was he engaged by the family of the deceased girl? Father   denied engaging any muscleman to intimidate the hospital authorities. “We were there the entire night and spoke to the doctors and the management. I don’t know from where the mob appeared in the morning and went on the rampage. We do not know who these people were,” said Kamal.
 
 Even the neta accepts that he went on his own. “Aise logon ko sabak sikhana chahiye (such people should be taught a lesson). As soon as I heard about the death, my blood started boiling. I told my boys that we have to teach them a lesson,” he said without explaining who gave him the authority to take the law in his hands.
 
 Most people TOI spoke to expressed shock and anger over the allegations of “negligence” on the part of the hospital and the sequence of events that followed. “The visuals of vandalism were shocking. The family has lodged a complaint against the hospital and we are sure that the law will not spare anybody,” said Abdul Kalam, an Ekbalpore schoolteacher.
 
 Psychologists rubbished the claims of “anti-establishment sentiments” that are often peddled after such attacks. “Whatever happened on Wednesday was hooliganism. There were close to 200 people in the mob out of which many were not even relatives of the deceased. Many of them were not even residents of the locality. The mob frenzy brought out the hooligan in them. The anonymity of being in a mob only emboldened them,” said Manish Banerjee, a psychologist.
 
