AHMEDABAD/ SURAT: When   wrote of the tragedy of two star-crossed lovers early in his career in the 16th century, little would he have imagined that the Romeo of the   would suffer the ignominy of being compared with eve-teasers and accused of misogyny and sex crimes. But somehow the character fascinated the Gujarat Police enough in 1999 to make them create ‘Anti-Romeo’ cells dedicated to protecting women. Officials believe that the cells’ name may have been inspired by phrases such as Romeo-giri.

 The Uttar Pradesh Police’s new anti-Romeo squads have come under fire for moral policing, sparking a debate on the role of such teams. The Gujarat Police formed such squads 17 years ago. In a circular issued by the state CID (crime) on December 27, 1999, ahead of the New Year’s Eve, officials say that the periphery of a few educational institutes have turned into dens of anti-social elements who harass girls and women. 
 
 “Stringent action is required to curb the menace. Heads of district and city police would have to identify trouble spots in their jurisdiction and form a team to be deployed there,” read the notification. “Such a team can be named the ‘Anti-Romeo Cell’ that would initiate stringent action to eliminate such elements.” Seventeen years on, the mandate of such teams has been reduced to specific events. The city police installed complaint boxes at schools and colleges; but they did not yield an encouraging volume of responses. The city police doesn’t have figures to show the squad’s work.
 
 Piyush Patel, JCP, Sector I, said that the squads are primarily formed with women officers and personnel at police station levels to check anti-social elements during Navratri, Holi, the New Year’s Eve and other such occasions. “Women safety is at the top of the agenda of police and local police stations take action on any complaint of harassment,” he said. “The role of the squads is preventive in nature as they visit the spots or patrol the roads to ensure women’s safety.” Surat city has started a sustained drive. In March so far, they have arrested 29 youths from around educational campuses. 
 
 “We issued a notification in January prohibiting any disturbing activity around educational campuses since it was brought to our notice that some people hang around and tease girls,” said  , Surat police commissioner. “The drive will be carried out at regular intervals.”
 
 
