MUMBAI: Panic gripped the city on Tuesday as it experienced rain throughout the day. The emotion was misplaced for most part of the day, as the rain's intensity didn't merit such a reaction, but became justified after evening, when parts of the city went on to receive near-record levels of September rain. A 4.54-metre high tide warning has been issued for Wednesday noon, exactly 12.03pm. “For students' safety, the government has declared a holiday on Wednesday, and will compensate it with one day less of Diwali vacation," said school education minister Vinod Tawde. Schools began sending messages to parents soon after Tawde's official announcement.

 Commuters had a harrowing experience during Tuesday's downpour, as they rushed home in kaali-peelis, which charged exorbitant fares. Aggregator cabs' surge prices were two-three times normal fares.
 
 CST was packed with passengers around 4pm, with several office-goers leaving for home earlier than usual.
 
 An executive from a bank at BKC said that in the absence of any mode of transport, the bank had arranged for a few cars. But given the flooded roads and traffic, it took longer than normal to reach home. An official said JVLR started getting flooded around 3pm.
 
 Heavy rain caused congestion on every north-bound road in the city in the evening.Western Express Highway, Linking Road, Eastern Freeway and Jogeshwari-Vikhroli Link Road were the worst-hit. Long distance trains on Western Railway were affected due to power tripping between Gholvad and Dahanu road stations.
 
 Suburban train services were not severely affected. A CR official said, “All trains are running normally except in some cases of 5-7 minutes delay"
 
 
 
 
 A SpiceJet Boeing 737 from Varanasi with 183 passengers overshot the runway and got lodged into mud after landing amid heavy rain and strong wind at 9.55pm, Tuesday . Passengers vacated the aircraft using inflatable slides. An airport official said there was no smoke or fire.
 
 Flight operations were suspended at Mumbai airport, forcing all arrivals after 10 pm to divert to other airports. The main runway was to remain closed till 10.30am, Wednesday, said a notice issued to pilots and airlines. The secondary runway was made operational as strong tail winds died down and visibility improved.
 
 But some long-haul international flights were unlikely to land (because of being big, wide-bodied aircraft), and pilots and airlines were likely to decide against landing in wet conditions on the shorter secondary runway .
 
 Earlier, bad weather led to four flight diversions and ten aborted landings. Visibility fluctuated throughout the afternoon and evening, delaying arrivals and departures by 3045 minutes.
 
