NAGPUR: The   of   inside Central Jail on Monday seems to be taking an intriguing twist. A gangster-cum-aspiring politician is being blamed for orchestrating the murder, which the victim’s family is describing as ‘well planned’. The gangster, close to several politicians, had attracted the attention of many, including the police department, after he put up several banners welcoming Devendra Fadnavis to the city after he was named chief minister in 2014.

 Pugaliya’s murder, allegedly by  , who too was serving life imprisonment, had been committed inside the toilet with a tile and sharpened piece of the broken rim of a metal vessel. Kotnake has so far claimed to have committed the murder after a tiff with Ayush, which had begun around a week ago.
 
 The trigger for the murder, as per Kotnake, was Ayush hurling abuses at him while heading towards the bathroom. Kotnake has claimed that he feared Ayush would eliminate him if he did not kill him first. Ayush’s brothers Navin and  , who were also co-accused in the kidnapping and murder of eight-year-old Kush  , however, claim that their brother did not have such an aggressive temperament. On the contrary, Ayush was focused on studying and had also got an award for his performance in an examination on Gandhian thought and philosophy, they pointed out.
 
 The jail officials were puzzled by Kotnake’s claim of such deep enmity with Ayush, since there had been no complaints or information of any tussle between the two, which could have snowballed to this extent. A senior jail official said Ayush’s ‘hundi’, which is a group in the jail parlance, had not even taken much notice of the trivial issue between the two a week ago that led to an altercation during a meal. “The other inmates of Ayush’s group claimed that they did not alert jail personnel because such altercations are routine between inmates,” said a jail official.
 
 As for the goon’s connection to the murder, senior officials recall how the gangster had put up a poster welcoming the new CM at Sitabuldi, with a spice brand sponsoring it. The then Jt CP Sanjay Saxena had even asked the spice company management to file a complaint against the goon if they had been compelled to sponsor the hoarding by the goon, who had a sizeable following while staying in jail. The hoarding was promptly removed after that. The Pugaliyas, who too had met the goon while in jail, sounded scare to name the goon.
 
 Zonal DCP Rakesh Ola said the police would probe the case from all angles. “The magistrate court has already given permission to take Kotnake into custody, and government nod is expected soon,” he said.
 
