BENGALURU: What began as an initiative to   in hospitals has now turned into a  . In Bengaluru to collaborate with six city hospitals, Joe Kiani, founder of USheadquartered Global Patient Safety Movement Foundation (PSMF), spoke to TOI.
What prompted you to start an organization for patient safety?
 
 The 1999 report by the   that showed 100,000 annual deaths in the United States were caused due to  , came as a rude shock to me. In 2011, Medicare's report showed 200,000 patients are killed every year due to medical er rors. I visited Africa with then President Clinton where the situation was worse. In January 2012, we held our first summit in the US and now we have 39 member-countries, including Spain, Scotland, Vietnam and India.
 
 
 
 
 Three million people lose their lives annually due to medical mistakes and hospital-acquired infection in a developed country , while it's 16 million in a developing nation. In developing countries, there's little access to safe surgery. Added to that is absence of knowledge about healthcare facilities and lack of courage to question hospital authorities. Our study showed only 50% of nursesdoctors wash hands before touching a patient, while a whopping 99% of them do so after treating a patient.
 
 
 
 
 There's no system to record the number of deaths; hospitals are not required to report how many lives they lose annually . Without a tracker, the medical fraternity don't even realize how grave the situation is. The culture and norms of a country can become a barrier; certain nations criminalize hospital deaths and an erred doctor is tried like a criminal. This leads to loss of transparency , hospitals and doctors try to bury medical mistakes and never work towards seeking a solution. To err is human but not implementing a solution out of fear for the existing norms is inhumane. Another challenge is lack of financial incentives for hospitals to implement life-saving techniques and equip themselves with facilities that can rectify medical errors.
 
 
 
 
 The number of preventable deaths in India is huge, though we don't have a specific figure. We have come here to speak to hospitals to ensure healthcare professionals, technologists, patient advocates, family members, regulators and legislators in India are ready to take action.We have joined hands with six hospitals -Cloudnine Hospitals, NU Hospital, Ovum Hospitals, Kangaroocare Maternity Hospitals, Spandana Hospitals and HCG Cancer Hospital. India will have regional chairs to address regional problems and come up with solutions. Every state will have a regional chairman.
 
 
 
 
 Patient's safety should be included in the curriculum for medical students. Medicos should be told that treatment must always be patientcentric. Doctors don't have to listen to experts on safety, they just need to love their patients.
 
