A new mother who wanted to fight her weight gain, Vatsala Rao gave it her all. She was fit all her life and hence, was not boding well with her post-pregnancy weight gain. A sense of dissatisfaction with her looks and the unhealthy life she had begun to lead motivated her to tread the treadmills again. She shares her journey with us.
 
 
  Vatsala Banavara Venkoji Rao
  
 
  86 Kilos
  
 
  30 Kilos
  
 
 A desire to become a fit mom. I was very unhappy with my appearance mostly because I knew where I was before the weight gain. I was also unhappy with my eating habits. They left me feeling fatigued, depressed and simply ‘unhealthy’. As soon as I was allowed to work out after having my baby, I got back onto it!
  
 
 Egg whites, steel cuts oats with nutes and pan fry veggies
  
 
  4 ounces of protein (chicken), 3 ounce of carbs (rotis/brown rice), lots of veggies or dal
  
 
  4 ounces of protien (chicken), less on carbs (rotis/ brown rice), lots of veggies or dal
  
 
  Fruits, nuts and homemade energy bars which include dates, nuts and shredded coconut
  
 
  ALWAYS warm up – 5-10 minutes on a bike, rowing machine, jumping jacks, run up, down your stairs or any other way.
  
 Pick one exercise for each big muscle group – quads, butt and hamstrings, push, pull, and core. Do 3-5 sets for each exercise. Determine how many reps you will do and how long you’ll wait between sets for each exercise.
  
 Mix it up! Vary your reps, sets, and exercises. Keep it interesting. Increase your efficiency and work your heart by doing alternating sets or circuits. Keep your workout to under an hour. Stretch after your workout. You must also write everything down.
 
  
  
 
  Lentils idli
  
 If you are fond of South Indian delicacies, you must try lentils idli as it is extremely healthy and very low in calories.
  
 Lentils are low in calories which make them a welcome addition to calorie-controlled diets. They are rich in vitamin K and C which strengthen the tissues of the cartilage and skin. They are also diabetic-friendly.
  
 
 
 1/2 cup yellow moong dal (split yellow gram), soaked for 3 hours and drained
 1/2 cup of masoor dal
 3 green chillies, roughly chopped
 1 tbsp fresh low-fat curds
 Salt to taste
 1/4 tsp oil for greasing
  
 
 Abs are made in the kitchen. A flat tummy is prepared only with a proper combination of diet and cardio.
  
 
 Choose someone in your life who motivates you. Tell them about your   goals. The level of accountability you have on them will be up to you, but simply having someone to vent your frustrations with and high-fiving when you achieve a goal is worth a lot!
  
 
  I learned that what’s ‘healthy’ and ‘unhealthy’ for me really depends on my situation and context. Generalized guidelines never work.
 
 
 
 
