Two days after categorically denying the wedding rumours ' ' winner   does a U-turn.

  The day Noida boy Manveer Gurjar returned home as the winner of 'Bigg Boss' season 10, pictures and videos of his alleged wedding from a while back started doing the rounds online, with many calling Manveer out for having hidden his marriage to get female votes. While initially, Manveer and his family denied these rumours, calling them some relatives’ ploy to get publicity, he has now admitted that he is indeed married and has a daughter. Manveer tells us that he got married to a Noida-based girl from his community three years ago, but they have been separated for over a year-and-a-half. “I should put an end to all speculations by telling everyone that yes, I did get married in 2014. For the first five or six months, things were going fine, but after that, it all went downhill. It was her decision to separate from me in 2015,” he says.
 
  Manveer adds that after he returned from the show, his wife’s family has tried to patch things up, which was a major reason why he was hesitant in addressing the issue till now. He says, “My terms with her have been quite bad for the last year-and-a-half. There has been a lot of name-calling, emotional blackmailing, and several things that weren’t too nice. I wouldn’t want to get into the details because I do not want to indulge in mudslinging in public. Now, after my return, they have been trying for a reconciliation. She is back at my house, but I don’t know where it will go from here. I did not want to say anything on this before because I was trying to figure out the best course of action.”
 
  The 26-year-old denies allegations that he hid his marriage to get female votes on the show. He tells us, “My wedding was not hidden from the makers of the show. We did not hide it to get votes from girls. We didn’t even know if I would survive a week in the show, so how could we make such strategies? I just didn’t think that it was relevant to the public so I didn’t talk about it.”
 
  Manveer confirms that he has a daughter named Aashi, something that DT had reported on Wednesday. He says, “I mentioned that I had a daughter on the show also, but I think everyone thought it was a joke. If I had something to hide, why would I mention this?”
 
  He also admits that it was wrong to deny being married. “Initially, my family tried to dismiss the video and pictures as fake because they were trying to shield me from negativity. We are not celebrities. Yeh sab naya hai hamare liye. It gets difficult to handle, which is why some wrong calls were taken,” he says
