CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and   high court on Wednesday issued notice to the Haryana police seeking its reply on a petition filed by the founders of the   of institutions seeking anticipatory bail in relation to   murder case.

 The bench headed by Justice  , however, refused to order stay on their arrest observing that it would pass any order only after hearing the state. The matter has been fixed for further hearing on Monday.
 
 The owner of   Group of institutions Augustine Pinto, his wife and managing director (MD) Grace   and son   knocked the doors of the HC seeking stay on their arrest.
 
 Apprehending arrest in the case, the Pinto family had requested the HC to issue directions that they be released on bail in case of arrest in relation to the FIR registered on September 8 in Bhondsi police station, Gurguram.
 
 In their plea for interim relief, Augustine Pinto and his wife Grace Pinto, residents of Borivali (East) Mumbai, has told the court that they have deep roots in the society and poses no risk and there can be no apprehension of their absconding.
 
 “We unconditionally undertake to join the investigation and participate in any manner that the investigating agency sees fit and to abide by the terms and conditions’, petitioners have submitted in their plea.
 
 In a separate plea for interim bail, Ryan Pinto has submitted that he has no role whatsoever in the tragic incident, as he is neither connected with   Gurugram nor its managing committee.
 
 “The only reason that petitioner’s name is being dragged into this case is because the petitioner happens to be the son of the trustees of the St Xavier education trust, which started the Ryan International School”, argued Ryan Pinto’s lawyer.
 
 While declining to give any relief, the Bombay high court on September 14 had only stayed their arrest till September 15. They had approached the Bombay high court for transit bail. Their passports have already been impounded on the directions from the court.
 
 They want interim stay on their arrest in relation to the case registered on September 8 under section 302 (murder), under section 75 of the Juvenile Justice Act for willfully neglecting safekeeping of a child in actual custody and section 12 of prevention of children from sexual offences act 2012.
 
