CHANDIGARH: Three months after the controversy erupted over the alleged “irregularities” in the prestigious   (MNNS) at Rai, triggering a war of words between senior Haryana ministers   and Captain Abhimanyu, the issue would be probed by chief secretary D S Dhesi.

 Health, sports and youth affairs minister Anil Vij confirmed that formal orders regarding handing over of probe to the chief secretary has already been released.
 
 Earlier, the chief minister’s office had approved the name of senior   officer   for conducting the inquiry. However, this move was shelved after Khemka sought special powers to summon witnesses related to the controversy. Sources confirmed that two top bureaucrats were against giving such powers to Khemka apprehending that it could lead to some embarrassing situation for the government, as he could summon senior functionaries while conducting the probe. One senior cabinet minister was also against handing over the probe to Khemka.
 
 Additional chief secretary K K Khandelwal’s name was also discussed but he being already in the sports and youth affairs department came as a hurdle for the government to pick him.
 
 The   had also considered giving the probe to director general of police (DGP) and the   office but finally decided to hand it over to the chief secretary as Anil Vij had sought inquiry by an IAS officer.
 
 The controversy is regarding alleged financial irregularities in the school and alleged interference of finance department headed by Captain Abhimanyu in the school’s affairs.
 
 In a strongly-worded letter, forwarded to CM’s office on February 22, 2017, sports minister Anil Vij had sought chief minister M L Khattar’s intervention in the matter stating “high level inquiry by a senior IAS may be ordered and interference of unconcerned ministry may be stopped immediately”. Without naming Abhimanyu in the letter, Vij, however, had categorically stated in his note that “certain officers of the school are directly making complaints regarding the functioning of the institution to other ministers and not me”. Rai school comes under the sports and youth affairs department headed by Vij.
 
 Acting on the letter, the chief minister on April 27 had ordered an inquiry into the issue by Ashok Khemka, principal secretary, science, and technology. However, now Khemka has been replaced by Dhesi.
 
 
