NEW DELHI:   has given up on its plans of having backup venues for the U-17 World Cup to be held in India from October 6-28 at six venues -Delhi, Goa, Kochi, Mumbai, Guwahati and Kolkata.

 Ahmedabad, Chennai, Pune and Thiruvananthapuram were the replacement-backup venues that Fifa had in mind in case any of the six provisional venues failed to meet the set deadlines.
 
 However, on Wednesday, Jaime Yarza, Fifa head of tournaments, said those plans have been scrapped as there is little to no cause for concern at the moment. “At some point we had backups. But we gave them up as things were going smoothly. There was no need for them. In case there is some huge emergency, we could play at five venues. That will be our new backup plan,” Yarza said. 
 
 Even though he said Fifa delegation was more or less satisfied with the overall progress, there could be 'one or two venues' which could be a cause for worry. While he did not take any names, it was learnt that Kochi, where the FIFA and   (LOC) delegation will visit on Friday, could be one of them. The next official inspection is scheduled for July before the official draw is held.
 
 Both Yarza and  , the tournament director of the LOC, said Fifa is analysing air quality to curb the pollution problem which rises to alarming proportions in Delhi during Diwali season. “Fifa is concerned about Delhi's pollution levels. We will have doctors from India who work with Fifa and from other parts of the world give us their conclusions very soon. Only then can we give a better statement,” said Yarza. 
 
 “We are analyzing how air quality can affect situation of potential matches post Diwali.According to data provided by Central Board of Pollution Control, the air quality is usually decent pre-Diwali. Delhi is hosting matches in any case,” said Ceppi.
 
 'Readiness and willingness' to play part in allocation of matches
 
 Ceppi once again stressed that the Ceppi once again stressed that the decision on allocation of major matches will depend on 'readiness and willingness' of the facility owners and the state governments. Talking about the preparation at Delhi's JLN Stadium, Ceppi said, “Ideally , the work should have been completed by now. We are looking at the end of next month for the core infrastructure to be ready.”
 
 “As for Delhi, the authorities need to work at a stronger pace to deliver what is required for a Fifa World Cup. The stadium should represent the Capital city in the best possible way,” added Yarza.
 
