Bhopal: About five lakh people in the state capital may not get   from public distribution shops ( ) from next month. Verification mismatch owing to errors in database entry and inability to furnish Aadhaar details would deprive beneficiaries of ration from June. 

 According to district administration officials, the last date for registration of all beneficiaries is May 31. Earlier, ration was available to all family members, if the head of the family produced his Aadhaar card. However, from this March it was made mandatory for all beneficiaries to link their Aadhaar cards for getting ration. For instance, if there are five beneficiaries in a family, and only three produced Aadhaar card, the ration for only three would be given to the family.
 
 Going by district administration estimates, there are about 2.96 families that depend on PDS system for rationed food. In all they account to about 10 lakh in Bhopal alone. Since, Aadhaar for all beneficiaries has been made mandatory, only three lakh have produced their cards for registration and linking.
 
 Overwhelmed by the task, the district administration had sublet the task to data entry operators. Officials admit that some three lakh had submitted their forms. However, data entry errors and other mismatch has meant that over three lakh are yet to incorporated in the new system. Similarly, around two lakh people are yet to complete formalities of submitting their Aadhaar cards.
 
 The errors in data entry have resulted in incomplete information being uploaded in the system. It includes simple errors like incomplete unique Aadhaar number, mismatch of address and linking the beneficiary with the family head.
 
 The latest problem to hit the PDS system comes on the heels of investigation into misuse of point of sale (PoS) machines that verify beneficiaries through biometrics scan linked with Aadhaar. It led to protests by opposition Congress party after allegations of hacking in ‘secure’ Aadhaar system through PoS machines came to light. In some instances, ration from one Aadhaar card was distributed to over 4,000 people. As per protocol, Aadhaar linked PoS should curb misuse. 37 PDS shops are under investigation in the matter.
 
 A PoS machine uses biometric finger print recognition and beneficiaries get the ration. However, the flaw was detected during random sampling and inspection during random check of the portal.
 
 Sources said that in many instances, one finger print scan in the system allowed for distribution to over 4,000 families. Indications are that these errors and a system hack has been ongoing since March 2016. 
 
 There are an estimated 45,000 BPL families within municipal limits that are without Aadhaar linked ration cards. Earlier in 2015, district administration was criticized when it could not trace about one lakh registered   holders in the city. The suspected fraud came to light as district administration plans to launch proposed fair price shop (FPS) portability project wherein ration card holders would be free to buy their ration from any FPS within city limits.
 
 
