Pune: A district court in Pune has declared the copyright and other exclusive rights of seven   produced by legendary actor, director and producer   in favour of his relative Manik P More in a civil suit initiated nearly 12 years ago. 

 More is the   of Leelabai, Kondke’s  . He was a divorcee and had no children. Prior to his death in March 1998, Kondke had executed a will on January 2, 1998, bequeathing the rights of distributorship of his films to More. The films include four that were produced in Hindi and three in Marathi. 
 
 In a judgment on July 5, district judge S B Bahalkar permanently restrained Nupur Marketing Inc., a film trading firm at Gulabi Baug in Delhi, from attempting to release, reprint or convert into video, compact discs, digital form or broadcast in any media, including cable and satellite, any of these seven films. 
 
 The firm had claimed that it had acquired rights for these films through agreements in 2005. More had argued that the firm’s intention and action would cause harm to the copyrights owned by her and would cause an irreparable loss if it was not restrained from reprinting or broadcasting or using these films in any manner. 
 
 The court decreed the suit in favour of More by declaring, “The plaintiff (More) has copyright and exclusive right of video, dubbing or reproducing, reprinting and/or redistributing the rights in respect of the seven films of late Dadasaheb Kondke.” 
 
 More is a member of Indian Motion Pictures Producers Association and also the Central Cine Circuit Association, a trade body of film distributors and exhibitors. Kondke was also into distribution of films through his proprietorship firm Kamakshi Film Distributor, which More took over after his death.
 
 More placed on record a certified copy of the will executed by Kondke and a certificate of probate in relation to this will that was granted in her favour by joint judge senior division in Pune on December 19, 2008. She also furnished copies of the certificates issued by the Central Board of Film Certification. 
 
 The court observed, “Oral and documentary evidence has not been challenged by the defendant (Nupur Marketing) nor did the latter cross-examine the plaintiff.” 
 
 The company did not dispute the fact that Kondke produced the seven films but relied on a couple of agreements which, it claimed, gave it the rights to these films. 
 
 “It is pertinent to note that nobody has entered into the witness box on behalf of the defendant to prove their case,” the court said while observing that there was no evidence to prove that Kondke had assigned the rights of his films to a third party which, in turn, assigned the rights to the film trading company.
 
 It upheld More’s   to the films on the basis of Kondke’s will and the probate certificate and held that she was entitled to a declaration and perpetual injunction as prayed for. 
 
 
