During the 1971 Indo-Pak war at the eastern front, then   Squadron Leader, Group   received a call from his commanding officer, asking him to move to an undisclosed location. The call set off a chain of events that made Sihota a hero in the next day's newspaper, where his picture was carried along with senior commanders of the armed forces.

 Sihota was seen in the iconic photograph in which Pakistan Army's Lt Gen A A K Niazi was seen signing the instrument of surrender of Pakistan forces with Lt Gen Jagjit Singh Aurora, commander of the  's Eastern Command on December 16, 1971.
 
 Sihota, a ground duty officer, was posted as staff officer to Group Captain Chandan Singh, then sta tion commander of Zorhat airbase.His base was responsible for transporting troops from Zorhat to Agartala airbase by `Dakota' aircraft, from where the troops were to move to Dhaka by transport helicopters.
 
 Recalling the moment that suddenly made him famous, Group Captain (Retd) Sihota, 83, told TOI how being a part of history took him completely by surprise. He said he never expected to feature in the photo.
 
 “That day , there was complete chaos at the Race Course garden Dhaka, where the ceremony was to be held. I was accompanying my commanding officer, Group Captain Chandan Singh that day . When Gen Niaazi signed the papers, a cameraman from the ministry of defence asked everyone for a photograph. No one expected a cameraman to be present at that moment. I was standing behind senior officers and joyfully looked towards the camera, becoming part of the historical moment,“ he said.
 
 Other senior defence officers whom Sihota recognizes were Lt Gen Sagat Singh, Corps Commander, Air Marshal Hari Chand Dewan, Eastern Air Command Chief and Maj Gen J F R Jacob, Chief of Staff of Eastern Command, who witnessed the ceremony . Gen Aurora's wife, who reached Dhaka with him, was also captured in the photograph.
 
 For Sihota, now a resident of Sector-47 Chandigarh, the gravity of the situation did not quite sink in as he left for his station with his commander.
 
 “The next morn ing, I was surprised to see my photograph published in all major newspapers with top army commanders of India and Pakistan. I become a hero for no special reason. The photograph still hangs on the wall of my drawing room and everyone ask me about my heroic act in the 1971 war. I just smile and no one believes that my presence was just a matter of chance“, said Group Capt Sihota.
 
 A day before the surrender ceremony , Sihota said he was having lunch at his residence at Zorhat airbase, when he suddenly received a call from his commander to move to Dhaka.
 
 “I left my meal and moved with the commander directly in flight.Not finding me home, my wife Hardiljeet Kaur frantically called everyone to inquire. She was assured by officers that I am safe and had gone with the com mander but the loca tion was not revealed to her. My wife came to know about me when she saw the photograph of the surren der ceremony“, Sihota said.
 
 Sihota also remembers his meeting with K C Cariappa, an   officer and son of Field Marshal, General K M Cariappa, the first Indian Army Commander-in Chief. Sihota said Carriappa, who lat er retired as Air Marshal, was flying the transport heli copter in which he had reached Dhaka along with other de fence officers for the ceremony.
 
 A native of Hoshiarpur dis trict in Punjab, Sihota was com missioned in the IAF in June, 1958 and retired on the rank of Group Captain in 1990 from Chandigarh Air Force Station. He also served as station commander of Chandigarh based prestigious 3-BRD Air Force Station.
 
