It’s that time of the year when   (PMC) must sweep its muck under the carpet in order to present a clean face. Less than a week ahead of the arrival of members of   — under the Centre’s   — for an inspection for a national report card on clean cities, the   has gone into an overdrive, erecting   across the city and posting guards to prevent people from defecating and urinating in public.

 All this was done at a feverish pace to also impress experts from Quality Council of India (QCI), a body deputed by the ministry of urban development to run initial checks ahead of the Swachh Bharat team’s inspection. On Wednesday, Mirror spotted several guards wielding sticks, warning people against defecating in the open.
 
 Surprisingly, several mobile toilets have sprung up at Patil Estate slums, Sangamwadi Bridge and Shivajinagar bus depot among other areas —all this to please the national body.
 
 The charade will be stretched till January 23, our sources in PMC tell us, when the national team arrives in the city. This is a nationwide competition in which the cleanest civic body is given an award. PMC is hoping to emerge a winner by temporarily potty training citizens and even painting walls with Swachh Bharat Abhiyan slogans.
 
 Swachh Survekshan is a survey that evaluates and ranks cities based on cleanliness and other aspects of urban sanitation. It was created with the aim to foster healthy competition between cities, improve the standards of cleanliness and implement the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan’s objectives. The civic body has also realised that some of the toilets built under the open defecation scheme do not have overhead tanks. Just before the visit of the central team, PMC also decided to construct the tanks.
 
 On the recent overdrive, Sanjay Gawde, assistant municipal commissioner of PMC’s solid waste management department, said, “The corporation has deputed employees on identified places to stop open defection. Mobile toilets have also been placed so that people do not urinate in open spaces. The arrangement was set up since last week.
 
 But, it is not possible to depute employees in each and every part of the city. So, we have placed people in only a limited number of areas.”
 
 In the civic body’s defence, Suresh Jagtap, head of its solid waste management department, however, said that the drive to paint walls and build mobile toilets was part of a drive that was started in March 2016, and not just to impress the people from the Centre to score good grades. “We are only in the middle of completing some of the pending work of the project,” stated Jagtap. He admitted that water tanks were not put up yet, owing to the “water problem” in the city. “Some places do not have water pressure, so the tanks have not been installed there, although recently, we did manage to install some tanks after filling them with water. Our ward officers are keeping a watch on the situation,” he said.
 
 According to an insider in PMC, there are around 71community toilets that do not have water tanks. “When the QCI members arrived, the authorities started setting up the tanks. Also, in some places, they could not install the full set up and merely kept the water tanks without any connections, just to show that the toilet is functional.
 
 These are mostly located on the outskirts of the city and were not even shown to the inspection team,” the source said. The national team’s inspection will mark the city’s performance on waste collection and sweeping, processing and disposal of municipal solid waste (MSW); construction of toilets and the prevalence of open defecation; and the awareness and behavioural change around cleanliness and sanitation.
 
