PUNE: Flushed with his party’s success,   MP Sanjay Kakade invited the media for a press conference at 6pm on Thursday. Minutes later, however, the   office sent a message that the official press conference would be held by Pune guardian minister Girish Bapat and city BJP chief Yogesh Gogawale. Bapat and Gogawale had expressed their unhappiness to the state BJP leadership about Kakade, who had recently joined the party, deciding to call the media on his own. Kakade cancelled the press conference.

 A downside to the party’s victory in the municipal elections is the new tug-of-war between party loyalists and newcomers to take over the reins in both Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. Bapat and Kakade tried to show a united face after the results, but the lack of agreement was visible. Kakade’s supporters gave him credit for expanding the mass base of the party but Bapat’s supporters said he had built the party brick-by-brick over the years. In  , BJP MLA Laxman Jagtap and independent MLA Mahesh Landge, who recently joined the party, have already started claiming credit for the victory.
 
 The cold war between Bapat and Kakade started after the latter tried to guide the selection of candidates for the polls. This led to Bapat publicly criticising Kakade for his attempts to bring “tainted” leaders into the party. The RSS too still considers Kakade an outsider though he has emerged as a contender to take control of the city BJP.
 
 On the other hand, Bapat too is not a favourite with the RSS and BJP cadre. After the fiasco where Devendra Fadnavis was greeted by empty chairs at the venue of a public meeting, RSS leaders had demanded Bapat’s removal from the state cabinet. 
 
 “There are no differences between Bapat and me. We are united and we won because we fought unitedly,” he told reporters. BJP insiders said Kakade will now try to play a bigger role in the city unit as most of his supporters have triumphed in the civic elections.
 
 In Pimpri Chinchwad, the BJP is controlled by former   leaders who are now fighting to take control over the city unit. MLA Laxman Jagtap, who was an Ajit Pawar loyalist and a former NCP mayor, joined the BJP just before the assembly elections in 2014 and went on to become the party’s Pimpri Chinchwad chief. Bhosari MLA Mahesh Landge, another Ajit Pawar supporter, joined the BJP just before the  . The bickering between Jagtap and Landge started when both began insisting on more nominations for their supporters. 
 
