NEW DELHI: Prime Minister   on Sunday decried politicians who have blamed corruption charges against them on political vendetta even as he exhorted political parties to distance themselves from tainted members who had lowered the image of politicians and the country.

 While addressing floor leaders on the eve of the monsoon session of  ,   sent a strong message that the government would not budge to the opposition parties which have accused it of political vendetta.
 
 Modi’s strong words on corruption are seen in the context of ripening probes against opposition members Lalu Prasad, Mayawati and   and in the backdrop of some Congress stalwarts planning to raise “political vendetta” in the monsoon session. The Prime Minister’s comments make it clear that investigations will continue apace.
 
 “When the law takes its course against those looting the country, they try to escape by dubbing the action as political conspiracy. All parties need to come together against such elements,” Modi said. His exhortation was also viewed as a message to the opposition that Parliament should not be stalled on the issue of corruption as action against politicians accused of financial irregularities was merit-based and there was no political vendetta.
 
 “Along with maintaining probity in public life, action against corrupt politicians is essential. All political parties should identify and isolate such politicians,” the PM said. He further said that the image of politicians was under the scanner for decades due to the misdeeds of some. “We need to convince the people that all politicians are not corrupt,” he added.
 
 Modi’s comments come at a time when cracks have appeared in the Bihar coalition with chief minister Nitish Kumar toughening his stance against deputy CM and RJD neta   after the latter was booked by agencies for holding benami properties.
 
 Several Trinmool Congress politicians are in jail for their alleged involvement in the Narada-Saradha scams while Delhi minister Satyendra Jain and some other AAP members are also facing probes by agencies.
 
 
