PATNA: Jharkhand chief minister (CM)   on Sunday took a dig at RJD chief Lalu Prasad, saying his family has been getting what he (Lalu) had sown in the past. Das also termed his Bihar counterpart   a ‘dummy CM’ of Grand Alliance.
 
  Talking to mediapersons on the sidelines of   meet here, Das, while referring to the fodder scam of the mid 1990s and the ‘land-for-railway hotels’ case in which an FIR has been filed by the CBI against Lalu’s youngest son and Bihar deputy CM Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, Das said, “For some time, Lalu has been shuttling between Patna-Ranchi and Ranchi-Patna to appear in court in connection with fodder scam cases. Jaisi karni, waisi bharni (as you sow, so shall you reap). Now even Lalu’s wife  , his daughter Misa Bharti and son Tejashwi have started shuttling between Patna-Delhi and Delhi-Patna.”
  
  Das did not spare even CM Nitish Kumar, who heads the three-party Grand Alliance in Bihar, in which the RJD is the bigger partner with 80 MLAs, followed by JD(U) (71 MLAs) and Congress (27 MLAs).
  
  “In the Congress-led UPA government at the Centre, Manmohan Singh was dummy PM, but the real power was with the UPA chairperson  . In Bihar, Nitish is a dummy CM and Lalu calls the shots,” Das said.
  
  The Bihar Teli-Sahu Samaj meet was organised at Shri Krishna Memorial Hall here to felicitate persons of the ‘samaj’ who had been elected to local urban bodies. Two of them – Sita Sahu and   – were recently elected mayors of Patna and Muzaffarpur municipal corporations, respectively.
  
  Last year also, Das had attended the meeting of the ‘samaj’ here in which those elected to the three-tier panchayati raj bodies were felicitated. At the Sunday’s meet, Das was declared the “national leader” of the ‘samaj’ after PM Narendra Modi.
  
  The Bihar BJP brass – former deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo), leader of opposition in the state assembly Prem Kumar, his predecessor Nand Kishore Yadav, former minister Sunil Kumar Pintu, MLAs C N Gupta, Narayan Sahu and Raj Kumar Sahu and MLC S N Kushwaha – were also present on the occasion.
  
  Das said the former Bihar deputy CM has been exposing and fighting against corruption in the Grand Alliance government. He warned the elected ward councillors and mayors of the urban local bodies against indulging in corruption. “Dedicate yourselves to the service of common people,” he told the representatives of the civic bodies.
  
  Meanwhile, SuMo reiterated that the BJP legislators would “paralyse” the functioning of the Bihar assembly and legislative council in the monsoon session beginning July 28, if Tejashwi does not resign or is not sacked by Nitish by July 27.
