PATNA: Union electronics, IT, law and justice minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Thursday inaugurated a BPO   of the Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) in Patna’s  , and said five more such units would come up in Bihar soon to promote business and growth using  .

 The six Bihar BPO centres are to be opened in Patna, Muzaffarpur and Dalsingsarai under the Centre’s India BPO Promotion Scheme. 
 
 Altogether, 4,600 seats of BPO centres have been allotted to Bihar. Of them, the Pataliputra centre will have 1,000 seats that will create employment for at least 3,000 IT-trained talent as the ecntre will function 24X7 in three shifts, Prasad said, adding the stress was on including small towns in the “digital profile” of the country.
 
 Terming the opening of the Pataliputra BPO as “historic” for the state as TCS has global reach and reputation, Prasad said the expansion of the BPO activities would “empower Bihar” and give jobs to youths.
 
 The IT sector accounts for 2.5 lakh jobs nationally and generates Rs 10 lakh crore annually, Prasad said, adding its foundation is the use of 108 crore mobile phones, 114 crore Aadhaar cards and 50 crore Internet connections. “At least 72 mobile phone manufacturers have entered the country’s market,” he said.
 
 He said women from deprived sections had also started using digital technology to transact their business, and cited the case of Vyjanti Devi from Bodh Gaya. The minister also called her along with five others from towns like Maner (Patna) and Mahua (Vaishali) on to the stage to introduce these enterprising women to the audience. 
 
 TCS CEO and MD Rajesh Gopinathan earlier said the launch of the Pataliputra centre was aimed at creating thousands of new jobs and taking the IT revolution beyond the metros. The TCS centre is a state-of-the-art facility with robust administrative and technological infrastructure, he said.
 
 Software Technology Park of India DG Onkar Rai and BJP MLAs Nand Kishore Yadav, Arun Kumar Sinha, Sanjeev Chaurasia and Nitin Navin also addressed the function. Yadav accused   Ashok Choudhary of “doing politics over development” as the latter abstained from the function.
 
