DUDDHI (SONBHADRA): For the Scheduled Tribe population of Uttar Pradesh, getting a reserved seat has been a 16-year struggle. The news of Duddhi and Obra being declared reserved for STs was obviously pleasant for the community but what made it sweeter was the fact that it came as a surprise. 

 Neither did the district election officer of Sonbhadra know of it nor did the man who has been working tirelessly for the cause. 
 
 Till the 1996 assembly elections, the then-Uttar Pradesh had one ST seat. However, when Uttarakhand was carved out of Uttar Pradesh in November 2000, that ST constituency—Chakrata in Dehradun district—went to our newly born neighbour. 
 
 Since then, Scheduled Tribes of the plains of UP have been demanding a reserved seat. 
 
 Duddhi, meanwhile, was an SC seat till now while Obra was unreserved. As both are declared reserved for STs, the  , led by seven-time MLA Vijay Singh  , is a proud organisation. 
 
 An active member of organisations working for STs, Gond won assembly elections from Duddhi on a Congress ticket in 1980, 1984 and 1989. In 1989, he won as an independent candidate. He was a Janata Dal MLA in 1991 and 1993 while in 1996 and 2000, he emerged victorious as a   candidate.
 
 Gond could not contest the 2007 and 2012 assembly polls from Duddhi because the Gond caste was included in ST category in 2002.
 
 Gond recalled, “Chakrata was ST reserved because tribal castes including Tharu, Boksa, Bhotia, Raji and Jonsar, found in the hill region, had got   in 1967. In 1950, the Gond population of the southern regions of Mirzapur and Kaimur were included in the SC list. However, the same caste was in the ST list in other parts of the country. Apart from Gond, 16 other tribal castes of the plains of UP had been struggling to get ST status. In 2002, the then-NDA government at the Centre included nine of those 17 castes in the ST list. These were including Gond, Kharvar, Chero, Baiga, Panika, Pathari, Agaria, Parahia and Saharia. However, Kole, Korva, Kurav, Dhangar, Majhi, Majhwar, Malar and Kanwar could not succeed in their efforts to come under ST category in UP.” 
 
 After 2002, Gond began his struggle to get ST reserved seats in the local body, assembly and Parliament under the banner of Adivasi Girvasi Samiti. 
 
 “In 2005, the Allahabad high court accepted our PIL but we could not get the desired decision. In support of the demand, the tribal people boycotted the panchayat polls. Later, we approached the Supreme Court,” Gond said.
 
 Hearing the writ petition, the Supreme Court on January 13, 2012, issued a directive to the government of India, EC and the delimitation committee to notify ST reserved constituencies. However, as the EC had already issued the assembly election notification, the directive could not be implemented.
 
 In 2012, the government of India passed a bill to empower the delimitation committee to get revised data on the basis of 2001 and 2011 Census to notify ST reserved assembly seats in UP. This committee held a hearing session in Varanasi in 2013-14 and recommended that ST seats be declared. 
 
 “In November 2016, our delegation visited the Prime Minister’s office and the   with the demand. On December 20, I received a letter from the EC, stating that the matter was under consideration of the ministry of law.”
 
 After that, Gond said, there was no information from EC. It was only on January 4 that he came to know of Duddhi and Obra being declared ST reserved constituencies.
 
 Sonebhadra’s district election officer and district magistrate Chandra Bhushan Singh too did not know about EC’s decision to declare Duddhi and Obra as ST reserved constituencies.
 
 “We had no information about EC’s decision. Hence, we have mentioned Duddhi as SC reserved and Obra as unreserved in electoral rolls and all other data. We are ensuring necessary changes in the election documents now,” Singh said.
 
 
