NEW DELHI: State election commissioner S K Srivastava said on Tuesday that   will be used, not ballot papers, in the upcoming civic polls. He cited lack of time for this decision. He was reacting to the demand raised by some political parties that ballot papers should be used in the municipal polls scheduled for April. 

 Earlier in the day, CM   directed his principal secretary to write to the commission in this connection. However, Srivastava claimed that there was no time to change the rules as all preparations were over and making any changes would delay the polls. 
 
 Asserting that the EVMs cannot be tampered with, he said, “We will conduct mock polls beforehand to ensure EVMs are working properly and if there are any shortcomings, we will work on them.” 
 
 Meanwhile, the Election Commission on Tuesday reaffirmed the infallibility and tamper-proof nature of EVMs amid demands by AAP and BSP to replace them with the ballot-paper system. Senior commission functionaries pointed out that none of those who had questioned the reliability of EVMs before the EC or the courts after the 2009 general election, were able to prove their “tamperibility” when EC offered them 100 machines for a week between August 3 and 8, 2009, for a demonstration. 
 
 During this “demonstration challenge”, former Delhi chief secretary and IIT alumnus Omesh Saigal, who claimed to have demonstrated the possibility of tampering using what was a privately-manufactured “look-alike” of the EVM, refused to demonstrate the same on any of the 100 EVMs offered by EC. In a letter to then chief election commissioner, he insisted he wanted certain arrangements for him and his team of hardware and software professionals from a private company before coming to demonstrate the “tamperability” of EVM. 
 
 EC then pointed out that EVMs procured by EC from public sector manufacturers like Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) and Electronics Corporation of India Limited (ECIL), were not at all comparable with Saigal’s privately-manufactured EVM. EC officials declined to deal with the “imitation” machine to avoid any confusion in public mind. 
 
 BJP leader Kirit Somaiya visited the commission headquarters on August 7, 2009 in response to the EC’s invite. However, he said he was not opposed to use of EVMs and never meant to demonstrate their likely “tamperibility”. 
 
 EVMs used by EC cannot be reprogrammed and the software chip is developed by a select group of engineers in BEL and ECIL independently from each other. Nothing can be written on the chip after manufacture. The source code is so designed that it allows a voter to cast the vote only once. Unlike EVMs used in other countries, which are PC-based and run on an operating system, their Indian counterparts are not part of any network. 
 
 EVMs are readied and sealed in presence of candidates and their agents. 
 
 
