The cap on cash withdrawals at ATMs is gone. That might be happy news if you can find cash in the ATM next to you. A Mirror Check revealed that while the Reserve Bank of India lifted the withdrawal limit, several ATMs in the city are out of cash, forcing Amdavadis to roam around in the scorching heat hunting for a functional ATM. Ambawadi, Ashram Road, C G Road, Law Garden, Mithakali, Satellite, Shivranjani and Panchwati are the business centres of the city yet ATMs of various banks in these areas are empty of cash by noon.

 From cash being diverted to poll-bound states to non-recalibration of ATMs, from people hoarding notes to shortage of cash supply, the banks have a long list of excuses. Meanwhile, citizens find it tough to withdraw money even from ATMs at bank offices. Habib Sheikh, a 21-year-old sales executive went to four ATMs on CG Road during office hours and still had to return disappointed. “I visited Kotak Mahindra,  , SBI and Axis Bank ATMs in C G Road and Law Garden areas, but they were all empty. It is tough for us to go to a bank, fill slips and stand in queue to withdraw money as we are out for work by 9 am and return home quite late. ATMs are supposed to make withdrawals easy for people, but I have been forced to roam around in this heat to get my hands on my money.”
 
 
 
 
 Having faced a similar situation, Dr Ghanshyam Patel (26) said, “The Bank of Baroda and Bank of India ATMs near my house at Anjali crossroads had no money so I went to an HDFC ATM in Ambawadi but found that empty too. At a couple of ATMs, I found ‘Out of service’ and ‘Temporarily out of order’ boards. Then, there are ATMs where shutters are downed before it is noon because there’s no cash.
 
 The security guards told me that they were forced to resort such measures as people get angry when they try an ATM and find no cash. By putting up such boards or downing shutters, the people are forewarned and go away quietly.” Such is the level of frustration that a19-year-old resident of Vasna vandalised six ATMs between Anjali Crossroads and Guptanagar with a screwdriver when it failed to dispense money early on Friday. Divyakant Soheliya told police that he wanted to withdraw Rs 200 for fuel and food. When he was unable to withdraw money from two consecutive ATMs, he lost his cool and damaged all ATMs he found on his way back home.
 
 Darsh Pandya, a 20-year-old BCom student who resides in Ramdevnagar, said: “What if you have an emergency and need cash? ATM means Any Time Money but that is not the case in the city. Also, if you use ATM of another bank to withdraw money, you get charged for it. This is a sad situation.” Anand Panchal (26), who works as a marketing executive, could not withdraw money from   on Ashram Road. He said, “I am young and healthy so I can bear the heat. Can you imagine the plight of senior citizens or women with kids forced to go from one ATM to another to get money?”
 
 
 
 
 When Mirror contacted Kotak Mahindra branch officials, they said they were not authorised to speak. HDFC Bank and Axis Bank were not available for comment while PNB officials, on condition of anonymity, said, “Our ATM might have connectivity problem as it is run on broadband.” Mirror also contacted the Reserve Bank of India. Its Chief General Manager (Communications) Alpana Killawala said they would answer by email but sent no reply till the time the edition went to print. However, an RBI official, seeking anonymity, said, “The cash shortage arose due to elections in different states.
 
 The cash was diverted to those states.” He added, “Another issue is the recalibration of ATMs to accommodate new Rs 500 and Rs 2,000 notes which has different size. While some ATMs are yet to be re-calibrated, there are machines that are not functioning properly after the re-calibration. Moreover, RBI also wants people to use less cash and go digital.” Admitting to cash shortage, a private bank official, refusing to be named, said, “The RBI is giving us only 20 per cent of the cash we need. Most banks chose to give a bulk of it to their customers directly than put it in ATMs.”
 
 The bank officers’ and employees’ associations also admitted that there’s a shortage of cash in the market. Senior vice-president (Gujarat) of All-India Bank Officers’ Confederation (AIBOC), Wilfred Ambrose said, “Footfalls at ATMs has increased drastically. Even cheque deposits has increased by 50%. In comparison, the flow of currency has not been restored properly. But things are improving slowly.” General Secretary of Mahagujarat Bank Employees’ Association Janak Rawal said, “The government is not pouring enough cash into banks. Banks are holding on to the cash to give it to their customers over the counters. If they put the money in ATMs, even those people who are not their customers can withdraw the money. The shortage is so severe that even if ATMs are filled, it empties within a couple of hours.”
 
