BENGALURU: Karnataka was the first state to introduce the Good Samaritan and Medical Professionals Bill in November 2016, encouraging do-gooders to reach out to accident victims and immediately rush them to hospital.But the accident which claimed the life of Anwar, 18, in Koppal district on Wednesday, showed that the Bill should become a law. It is awaiting assent by the governor and President.
While Anwar was lying in a pool of blood after a speeding   bus ran over him, bystanders were busy clicking photographs instead of rushing him to hospital, which was just a stone's throw from the accident spot.
 
 Condemning the insensitivity of bystanders and pointing out the relevance of golden hour ­ the first hour following an accident ­ Dr  , chairman and medical director at  , said: “It is most unfortunate that bystanders did nothing to save a young life and continued shooting the boy's plight.With support from bystanders and appropriate medical care during golden hour, 50% of road accident deaths can be reduced.'' “Basic life support (BLS) training is crucial and everyone should be urged to be proficient in this. BLS is a level of medical care used for victims of lifethreatening illnesses or injuries until they are provided full medical care at a hospital. BLS techniques provide support to the victim's airways, breathing and cardiac function,“ he added.
 
 Columbia Asia has been conducting BLS training sessions every week at police training institutes, for corporates, resident welfare associations, schools, and also training ambulance drivers, school bus drivers and conductors.
 
 Clicking selfies and pictures of accident victims are symptoms of a mental disorder, say psychiatrists. The   (APA) officially confirmed what many people had guessed all along ­ taking `selfies' is a mental disorder and also defined it as an obsessive compulsive desire to take photos of one's self and post them on social media as a way to make up for a lack of self-esteem and to fill a gap in intimacy .
 
 Dr Shilpasri K, consultant psychiatrist at St Martha's Hospital said: “It has become common for bystanders to click selfies with accident victims and shoot pictures instead of helping them. There are several reasons why people click selfies and pictures of accident victims on the road. It may be a short-cut to moments of fame and easy money (by selling the picture), or may get them attention and popularity . Also, it is a trend of `performing' on social media that makes one look interesting.Moreover, people are still unaware of the Bill and hesitate to help accident victims to avoid medico-legal complications.“
 
 
 
 It's unfortunate and tragic that bystanders choose to pull their smartphones out to click photographs of injured road accident victims and not to call an ambulance or inform police. This behaviour reflects their morbid obsession. More important, every minute lost could irretrievably imperil the lives of the injured persons. In this context, it goes to Karnataka's credit that it has pioneered a law that offers amnesty to good Samaritans and doctors who rush medical aid to the injured persons. But the delay by the offices of the governor and President to sign the bill into law is extremely agonizing. They must act without losing time and offer do-gooders a protective arm.
 
