PUNE:  , who has been active   and   on the same, has lately been on a  . 

 Oswal has been busy creating awareness among the general public, especially women, on digital literacy ever since Prime Minister   made his push for a cashless economy. 
 
 Sharmila has been joined by 250 women in her endeavour. The self-styled ‘digital women warriors’ have been imparting training to those people who are still unaware of how to use debit/credit cards, mobile banking and digital transactions through their bank accounts. Hundreds of people across various cities and rural parts have benefited by so far. 
 
 Sharmila and her team received a pat on the back when the prime minister recognized their efforts. 
 
 “Last month, I received a call from the PM’s office, and a senior official told me to come to Delhi as the prime minister wanted to meet and discuss our efforts towards achieving digital literacy. It was a great honour. The meeting with Prime Minister Modi went very well. I elaborated on our mission, and how we are focusing on those who are still out of the ambit of the digital mission. The PM’s personal support delighted us,” Sharmila said. 
 
 She said that the response to her mission has been very encouraging. She and her team of trainers have travelled to targeted areas as well as the rural parts to hold digital literacy camps. She feels the efforts have to be stepped up as there are still many who are not fully aware of the digital payment modes; a lot more also needs to be done to ensure people continue using digital formats. 
 
 Sharmila said that her team’s prime focus has been on roadside vendors, daily wagers, and small entrepreneurs.
 
 Sharmila had also launched a Facebook page recently, through which more than 2,500 people have expressed their willingness to become trainers. “We are very happy with the response. These people are not expecting any monetary benefit, and are willing to contribute their time and efforts for free. We will be taking their help in the days to come,” Sharmila said.
 
