KANPUR: Three days after   littered four cubs,   gave birth to two cubs during the wee hours of Monday. This brought double delight to the zoo administration as in less than a week, two   littered cubs. The lioness which had already been segregated in the enclosure is being monitored through CCTV cameras. Both the cubs and the lioness are fit and being taken care off. But what had worried zoo authorities a bit was that the cubs had not started consuming mother's milk. Zoo vets are expecting that the cubs would start sucking milk by Tuesday morning for which they are being monitored. 

 The importance of the birth of the lion cubs could be gauged from the fact that after a gap of 10 years, lioness in the zoo had bred cubs. It was in 2007,   had littered three cubs but she had killed all of them. This had come as a setback to the zoo administration then. The zoo authorities this time are hopeful that the cubs will grow up in the zoo and add to the lion population in the country. Interestingly, Nandini and her partner Ajay were brought to   on December 11 last year from Raipur zoo and allowed to mate on December 20 (2016). After three months of pregnancy, lioness littered cubs. 
 
 Lions and tigers come under the Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 and are highly endangered specie of animals. The birth of the cubs, therefore, is an important development in country. Kanpur zoo has become first zoo in the country to witness birth of tiger and lion cubs in a gap of just three days, claimed zoo officials. 
 
 An elated Kanpur zoo director, Deepak Kumar, said that once again it stands proved that Kanpur zoo is a breeding centre for large animals in captivity. He said that Nandini was mated with partner Ajay for having offsprings. "It was in 2007 lioness Gauri had littered three cubs but she had killed all of them. Now in 2017, once again we have got an opportunity to witness cubs littered by Nandini. While the first cub was born at 1.05 am, the second cub was given birth at 2.40 am. We are recording all the activities of Nandini and her cubs through CCTV cameras and all of them are fine", said zoo director while talking to TOI.
 
 He shared that the cubs had not started drinking milk despite the fact that the lioness is ready for breast feeding. 
 
 "We will watch all the activities of Nandini and cubs till Tuesday morning and if the cubs are unable to consume milk, we will hand-feed them. We will provide them with kitten milk. It will be after this we will release the cubs back in the enclosure. But we do not want to introduce artificial way of making them consume milk. But we do not want to do this in the first go. Their survival is very important to us", said Dr RK Singh, senior vet of Kanpur zoo.
 
 Dr Singh also said that nobody is being allowed to go close to the enclosure of the lioness Nandini. He revealed that the cubs weigh around one kg each and are active but their gender is not known. Both Nandini and Ajay are six year old and the life span of lions is about 15 years.
 
 On being asked about the health of Trusha and her four cubs, Dr Singh said that Trusha is taking care of the cubs and feeding them milk. He said that they are keeping an eye over the activity of the cubs as well as Trusha through CCTV cameras.
 
