Mumbai: In just four sessions since PM Narendra Modi-led BJP’s resounding victory in the UP election, foreign funds have pumped in $1.3 billion into Indian stocks, and $605 million in debt. This has helped the   index on   to close at all-time high levels in three of the four sessions this week.

 Compared to this deluge of foreign funds into India this week, the aggregate net inflow by foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) till March 10 this year was $2.6 billion, CDSL data showed. In the debt segment of the market too, FPIs have pumped in over $600 million in the last four days of the week. 
 
 Top broking house officials and institutional dealers said that a combination of factors is leading to this surge in foreign flows. One of the prime reasons is “those foreign funds which were on the sidelines till the election results, awaiting confirmation if the government’s economic reforms process would continue unhindered, drew comfort from the poll results and have started investing” in India again, said Vikas Khemani, president & CEO, Edelweiss Securities. 
 
 In the last few months, after the government’s demonetisation move and victory of Donald Trump in the US presidential election in early Novemeber, several foreign funds had turned underweight on India, preferring to invest in other countries over India. According to Khemani “that’s going to change,” which could lead the further rise in the index.
 
 An institutional dealer at a domestic brokerage said that a large number of India-focussed exchange traded funds (ETFs) managed by foreign institutions are also witnessing strong flows since the state poll results. In turn, those ETFs are buying into India in a big way, the dealer said. For the last few months, there were some fund managers who were waiting for the Indian market to correct so that they could invest at a lower level. After the state poll results, those fund managers too have jumped into the market to buy, the dealer said.
 
 Like stocks, foreign fund managers are buying Indian debt too. In just three days this week, foreign funds’ net inflow is over $600 million, compared to $697 million since January 1 and March 13 this year, CDSL data showed. 
 
 
