TRICHY: The 22-day-long protest against the proposed   came to an end at   in   on Thursday evening following talks held with Union and state ministers. However, the protesters at the adjoining   refused to call off their agitation. Members of the protesting committee in Neduvasal have also warned that they would resume their stir if the concerned ministers failed to scrap the project within a week.

 Speaking to reporters in Neduvasal, Senthilnathan, a member of the protesting committee, said that as per the assurance given by Union minister  , arrangements were being made to meet   in Delhi on March 15 or 16. 
 
 Agricultural activities have been affected as people of 60 villages in and around Neduvasal had participated in the protest for the past 22 days. Moreover, the ongoing protest should not be a hindrance to students who have been appearing for the state board examinations, he said. “Considering these aspects, we have decided to suspend our protest,” said Senthilnathan.
 
 Earlier, Union minister Pon Radhakrishnan, state health minister C Vijayajabaskar and district collector S Ganesh held talks with the protesters at Neduvasal on Thursday evening in an effort to end the agitation against the proposed project.
 
 “The Union government will not implement any project inimical to the interests of the general public,” said Pon Radhakrishnan. The BJP has been ruling the Centre only for the past three years. However, the project was conceived much before the BJP came to power. “I have not come here in my capacity as a minister or politician. Instead, I am hear to understand your plight and help resolve your problems,” he added.
 
 Earlier in the day in Neduvasal, women continued protesting in a novel way by tying a noose around their neck and blowing the conch in front of the local temple where the protest had been going on. Villagers from surrounding hamlets had been converging in Neduvasal, Nallandarkollai and Vadakadu, conducting protests in a unique manner for the past few days.
 
