TUTICORIN: All roads led to this seaside village on Saturday, the last day of the ten-day   celebrations at the Mutharamman temple. Heavy drum beats accompanied by groups of dancers in multi-coloured costumes, a common sight during this festive season, reached a crescendo. 

 For the devotees it was not just a colourful celebration but a serious occasion to offer thanks to the goddess for answering their prayers. Till about five years ago, only men and girls aged below 10 to 12 years or women aged above 55 years would wear costumes and take part in the Dussehra celebrations. With women also allowed to take part in temple festivals in other orthodox temples in and around the state, they started donning costumes in the celebrations at   too. Devotees say this has raised the bar of celebrations here at par with Mysore which tops Dussehra celebrations.
 
 Some attend the celebration as families. But most devotees are attached to one of the nearly 1,500 village or area level committees in Tuticorin, Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari districts which have been taking part in the celebrations for decades. “These committees have up to 200 members. Though 70 percent of them have settled across the country, we make it a point to be here for Dussehra,” says S. Ramachandran (63) who owns an eatery in Mumbai.
 
 Ramachandran, who is from a village near Udangudi in Tuticorin district, has been wearing the costume of a temple priest for 40 years. He said that it was up to the individual to choose his costume but there were customs and sentiments attached to it. Devotees wearing the most preferred   or Amman costumes have to fast for 41 days believing that only then would they secure the blessings of the goddess, while those wearing other costumes fast for 11 days.
 
 Other costumes that were common this year were of men dressed like women, demon, beggar, mad man, nurse, doctor, policeman, monkey, bear and other animals, king, queen and tribal woman. Captivated by the blockbuster Baahubali, a few were dressed like its hero   and villain Bhallaladeva.
 
 Elders like D Sukumar (67) of Sandhaiadiyur, who runs a chain of tailoring institutes in Chennai, who have been putting on costumes for decades, help the youngsters don the costumes free of cost. In recent years professionals are also roped in to give a professional touch to the makeup. But this comes with a price.
 
 Though special buses were operated, lorries and other goods carriers such as vans and autorickshaws were the preferred modes of transport for the people who travelled from far and wide to take part in the celebrations. Parking arrangements were made at 11 places in addition to temporary government bus stands being set up. While the crowd was in thousands on Saturday morning it started going up in the evening to witness the main event of the goddess’s victory over the evil one. Police sources said that more than 5 lakh people took part in the celebrations last year on the final day which could go up this time.
 
 
