NAGPUR: After lawyer   remained absent during the Monday’s hearing, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court held him guilty of criminal contempt. He was told to remain present on Tuesday at 10.30am to argue on the quantum of punishment. The court forfeited Rs1 lakh from Rs2 lakh, deposited with its registry, as he failed to appear.

 “We hold him guilty of criminal contempt, as he was not present and his counsel   expressed inability to argue matter on merits. We give one more opportunity to make submissions on the point of punishment and sentence,” a division bench comprising justice Prasanna Varale and justice Zaka Haq said.
 
 They rejected as many as three out of five applications submitted by respondent’s counsels that included exemption from personal appearance for second time, rejection of non-bailable warrant (NBW) issued against Uke, and appointing  , as his counsel without Vakaltnama.
 
 Earlier, when the court started proceedings, Uke’s lawyers — Bijoy Adhikari and Joveson, informed that their client had filed a case with chief justice which would come up for hearing on Monday before principal bench. The court then adjourned hearing till 4pm, asking the counsels to inform about status of the case before CJ, submit relevant records, and inform on whether, he had given specific orders to stay current proceedings at the Nagpur bench.
 
 At 4 PM, however, when the lawyers informed that no such orders were passed by the CJ, but it was listed before his bench on Tuesday, the court pronounced its order, holding Uke guilty. It rejected efforts by his counsels to seek time till Tuesday to wait for hearing to be taken place before the bench headed by CJ.
 
 Citing verdict of Justice  , who had initiated first suo motu contempt against Uke on June 7 last year, the court said there is definite, deliberate, motivated and calculated attempt on his part to bring down judiciary’s image and obstruct justice administration system. “There is a definite act of browbeating the court to obtain favourable orders. Uke hasn’t filed any detailed reply submitting his explanation. Neither he replied to the contempt charges framed by the court,” the judges noted. 
 
 Justice Deshpande had restrained the court registry, judges and other officers, including lawyers, from entertaining any plea filed by Uke, without its permission, while deciding a civil revision application filed by the lawyer himself.
 
 The entire proceedings are being conducted in presence of two cameras for the first time in court’s history. On Tuesday too, the courtroom as packed with lawyers, media men and court staff, as the case garnered much anxiety among all regarding the outcome. On Tuesday as well, all eyes would be on Courtroom No D, as judges would pronounce punishment to be meted out to Uke for committing contempt. He may be sentenced to six months of simple imprisonment and pay fine of up to Rs2,000.
 
 Another suo motu contempt case initiated by justice Varale and justice Haq on Wednesday, would come up for hearing on March 8, where he was told to deposit another Rs2 lakh with the court registry. During last hearing on Thursday, the court issued a NBW against Uke for securing his presence. 
 
 
