LUCKNOW: In a first-of-its-kind project, Niti Aayog and   have joined hands to form a working group to make a   If the experiment is successful, it would be implemented in other states, too. 

 The decision was taken at a meeting of UP government—led by chief minister Aditya Nath Yogi—and a 17-member Niti Aayog delegation led by vice-chairman   and CEO Amitabh Kant in Lucknow on Wednesday. 
 
 The six-member working group will have three members from Niti Aayog and three from UP government. They would sit together and chalk out a strategy to take forward the development index of the state, Panagariya said. While member Ramesh Chandra, CEO Kant and advisor Alok Kumar would represent Niti Aayog, UP health minister Siddharthnath Singh, the chief secretary and principal secretary planning would represent the UP government. 
 
 Later, CM Yogi said that the working group would identify focus areas in which all departments would work and present a report in 15 days. He added that UP aims to grow at a rate of 10% against the existing growth pegged at 7.9%. The working group would work on a roadmap to take UP to that level, he said. 
 
 Since the formation of Niti Aayog, several big experiments have been carried out, Panagariya said and added that part of the experiment was the visit of Niti Aayog to various states. However, it is for the first time that a working group has been formed to act as a pilot project for the rest of the country. 
 
 At Wednesday’s meeting, Panagariya said, 10 presentations were made on various topics concerning the state. Quoting Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s focus on federal cooperation in the development of states, Panagariya said that while the earlier Planning Commission had an upper hand compared to states, Niti Aayog focuses on working going hand in hand with states and cooperating with them. 
 
 That the Niti Aayog and states are equal partners was evident in the fact the Prime Minister was the head of the Aayog and all chief ministers are members of the governing council, Panagariya said. 
 
 At a governing council meeting on April 27, PM Modi had said that states needed to work together for what he called a vision to create a ‘New India. 
 
 “Niti Aayog is working on a 15-year long-term vision, 7-year medium-term strategy, and 3-year action agenda...This effort needs support of states,” the PMO had quoted Modi as saying.
 
 
