MOHALI: The foot over-bridges constructed by   ( ) is primarily serving the purpose for generating revenue for the   ( ) instead of the purpose for which they were actually constructed.

 After ‘wasting’ over two-crore rupees on foot over-bridges at four points in the town, the MC is making good use of the bridges by defacing the town with display of advertisement hoardings.
 
 It has been successful in earning Rs 90 lakh from three foot over bridges annually while the advertisement companies do not find the fourth one as favourite. “All 14 display boards on three over-bridges, two in Phase VII and one at the Phase III-V lightpoint, have been booked by companies. With the fixed reserve price of Rs 200 per square feet for display boards, we are earning around Rs 9 lakh per month from advertisements,” said the official. The contract has been given for three years, which is extendable to five years, subject to certain conditions, including hike in the rent.
 
 Constructed by GMADA in 2011, the foot over-bridges, which are now generating hefty amount of revenue for MC, were almost good for nothing till two years ago. Hardly used by pedestrians, they had once proved to be white elephants for the Mohali administration. In 2012, the over bridges were handed over to the MC. In November 2014, the civic body had come up with a plan of installing lifts there. The plan was shelved following a strong protest from residents. In April 2016, the   and Haryana high court had directed the GMADA, not to invest in installation of escalators or elevators on foot over-bridges as they were of no use. The petition in the HC was filed by Punjab traffic adviser Navdeep Asija praying that these overbridges must be dismantled as they serve no purpose and are sheer waste of public money. 
 
 MC, then, stepped in to generate revenue by putting up advertisements on them. 
 
 However, MC fetches around 10 crore from the advertisements at various places including these foot over bridges in Mohali. From 2012 to 2015, MC earned Rs 6 crore from the advertisements for the entire city and thereafter from 2015 to 2017, MC fetched Rs 9.9 crore from the advertisements and is hoping to fetch over 11 crore for the coming 2017 to 2020, said MC officer.
 
