COIMBATORE: Civil engineer Jacob and museum owner Rose met more than 20 years ago. Every  , the couple, who are now in their late 30s, wear the same clothes they wore when they first met. On Tuesday, when this couple walked into Brookefields Mall to celebrate their 20th Valentine’s Day, they noticed the ‘My Stamps’ counter set up by the  . And, the couple was glad at the prospect of one of the most meaningful gifts to celebrate their love.

 Many couples, who wanted to move beyond clichéd gifts or just spend the day in one of the city’s malls on Valentine’s Day, were excited to find the postal department’s ‘My Stamps’ counter. While the initiative was launched more than three years ago, this year the postal department launched “perfumed” ‘My Stamps’ with a rose next to it.
 
 The fragrance, postal department officials said, would last a decade. To make it more exclusive, Coimbatore was allotted only 1,000 sheets of the “perfumed” ‘My Stamp’. Among the 40-odd people ordered ‘My Stamps’ by 2pm on Tuesday, 17 of them were couples.
 
 Jacob said he instantly chose to gift his wife the stamps, because they reflected his wife’s name -- Rose. “My wife’s name is Rose and I want each celebration to be different from the previous years. The stamp incidentally has a rose next to it and smells rose,” Jacob said.
 
 Rose too could hardly contain her excitement. “The stamps have us in the same clothes we wore when we first met. It is such a lovely way to store our memory. I plan to frame them in my house, instead of using them,” said the 37-year-old museum owner.
 
 Well-known philatelist Lion M Rajendran, who read about the new stamp in the newspapers on Tuesday morning, drove all the way down to Coimbatore to pick up “the perfect Valentine’s Day gift for his daughter, who is also a prize-winning philatelist, and his future son-in-law”.
 
 “Being philatelists, who specialise in collecting desi ones, stamps are always the gifts that matter most,” said Rajendran, who owns a tea estate in Coonoor. “They are sure to cherish the gift and it will remind them of their last Valentine’s Day before marriage,” he said.
 
 Rithika Ghose, a 27-year-old media professional, has also ordered for the stamps. “I have finally found something worth gifting on Valentine’s Day. It’s a very pleasant and unique gift for my partner and far better than usual ones like shirts, watches and mugs,” Ghose said. “I found this very exclusive and premium. My boyfriend will be one of the few hundreds to have a sheet or two of the perfumed My Stamp,” she added.
 
 
