NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Monday termed it a “matter of concern” that police have not yet filed a chargesheet in the  , more than three years after her death.

 A bench of Justices GS Sistani and Chander Shekhar made the remark while seeking a response from police and BJP MP Subramanian Swamy to an application filed by Pushkar’s son, Shiv Menon, opposing a petition for court-monitored   into her death.
 
 Menon also questioned Swamy’s locus standi in seeking court-monitored probe, alleging that he was doing it only for publicity and sought to restrain him. However, the court refused to issue any such order and asked Menon why he is opposing the plea.
 
 “We thought the son (Menon) would be keen to know the person who killed his mother. Here is an opportunity to say why the chargesheet was not filed for three-and-a-half years. It is a matter of concern,” the bench observed.
 
 Pushkar’s son, in his plea, sought that the investigating agency be directed not to supply Swamy a copy of the status report in the ongoing probe. He also sought to bar Swamy from posting the status report and documents related to the case on social media.
 
 However, HC made it clear it won’t pass a restraining order and Menon’s petition questioning the locus standi of Swamy will be decided after the parties are heard. “In the last three-and-a-half years there has been no restrain on this. We are not getting into it. Why didn’t you get restraining order from the court concerned,” the bench said, pointing out that it has not yet entertained the allegations raised by Swamy in his petition against the probe agency.
 
 Meanwhile, Delhi Police standing counsel Rahul Mehra submitted that he has not yet filed the status report in the matter as they are in process of consultation with the cops on this issue.
 
 Swamy has alleged that “inordinate delay” has been caused in the   “which is a blot on the justice system”. 
 
 He has also alleged that evidence has been destroyed. He has accused   of influencing the probe.
 
 
