KOLKATA: The Trinamool Congress-dominated state chapter of   (IMA) that backed the clinical establishment bill, which was opposed by its parent body, has voiced concerns over patient overreach and threats to doctors and urged the state to act against the alleged misuse of the bill.

 There have been several instances of doctors being threatened with   since the bill was introduced a week ago. Fearing repercussion, doctors are already beginning to refuse patients whose conditions are very serious lest they be drawn into a medical negligence case in the event of a death.
 
 In a prominent private hospital, a patient's kin openly threatened a senior practitioner that he could be summoned to Nabanna for a dressing down if he refused to write down the line of treatment he proposed to undertake. “Now, I have a security guard walk alongside me when I cross the lobby because one does not know how far these people can go,“ the doctor said.
 
 In another instance, a woman visited a paediatrician with a local political leader in tow to force the doctor to take the case. The doctor, however, refused as the child was very ill and chances of survival was 50:50. “I would perhaps have taken the case earlier and tried my best but with this patient flaunting her political connections, I know it will spell trouble if the child does not survive,“ the physician said.
 
 IMA state secretary Shantanu Sen, who has been inundated with these cases and more, acknowledged there was a problem at hand. I MA state secretary Shan tanu Sen urged the gov ernment to foil these ef forts by acting tough against trouble-mongers. “We support the bill, but there are vested interests in pockets that are misinterpreting provisions of the bill to threaten nursing home doctors and private practitioners. These elements are out to sabotage the bill,“ Sen said.
 
 “The prevailing situation has put doctors in the line of fire. They are scared and can't be blamed if they treat patients defensively . We need to deliberate on the bill extensively and amend some of the provisions, particularly those that are very harsh on doctors,“ said cardiac sur geon Kunal Sarkar.
 
 The state unit of IMA, a body of nearly 16,000 registered medical practitioners with 171 units state-wide, had, in an extended general body meeting on March 5, accepted a resolution to support the bill, contrary to the stand taken by the parent body in Delhi. The state unit argued that the bill was not against doctors and aimed to curb rampant extortion and non-transparency in the billing process. It also stated that the bill had enough safeguards for doctors and punitive measures were only directed against erring private healthcare institutions.
 
 But not everyone in the state unit agrees with the bill's provisions. Some disgruntled members have spoken against the bill and even threatened to move court.With IMA headquarters openly voicing its opposition, senior office-bearers of the state chapter air-dashed to New Delhi on Sunday to allay concerns. Sen joined the efforts through a 45-minute conference call. But sources said the parent body was set to write to the CM and governor, urging them to protect the doctors' interests. It is also likely to send a delegation to Kolkata to engage with the CM directly .
 
 Their contention is buttressed by the multiple instances of threats doctors have received in the past week. In one case, a patient's wife confronted a surgeon minutes before he was to walk in to conduct a surgery and told him that she was not convinced by his decision to operate on her husband.
 
 “The doctor takes a decision that he feels is best for the patient. But if he were to be intimidated at every step, it will be difficult to continue the practice,“ argued a senior cardiologist.
 
