BENGALURU: The ongoing battle between taxi aggregators and drivers with regard to higher incentives and lower penalties has taken a political turn with JDS leader and former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy taking up cudgels for the drivers.

 Kumaraswamy’s involvement comes at a time when the Congress-led Siddaramaiah government has refused to intervene and the opposition BJP has chosen to remain a mute spectator. Kumaraswamy’s explanation is: “No one is lending an ear to the drivers as they are a part of the unorganized workforce and are mostly from the lower economic strata. We have always fought for the poor and the downtrodden, welfare of the drivers is also important for us.”
 
 While Kumaraswamy attributed his sympathy for the drivers to `humanitarian’ reasons, JDS insiders maintain that the move will position him as a messiah. Sources in the party said: “There are over one lakh drivers who have been protesting against   and Uber for the last two months. If we assume that each driver has about four-five dependents, the number of people who are affected will be around five lakh persons. Kumaraswamy comes as a ray of hope for the drivers and their family members by taking up their case”.
 
 The political dividends will be high even if half this number converts into votes for the JDS. Moreover, he is the only political leader who has extended support to the driver fraternity while those from the Congress and the BJP are pre-occupied with the diary war in the state. However, a JDS leader said: “We should not view everything through the political prism. The drivers have been taken for a ride by the cab aggregators and Kumaraswamy is trying to help the former.”
 
 Kumaraswamy said: “The drivers have not had any formal agreements with the taxi companies but they had been promised a monthly income of Rs 60,000 – 70,000 per vehicle. Lured by the big money, many people mortaged their properties, bought cars and attached them to the two aggregators. But these drivers are now being misused and exploited.”
 
 Kumaraswamy slammed the government for refusing to intervene. “Aren’t the drivers and owners of vehicles paying taxes to the state government? How can the government turn a blind eye to the clash that has put commuters in Bengaluru to hardship?” he said. Kumaraswamy, who requested the city police to allow the drivers to conduct a peaceful protest at   in Bengaluru, has also assured the cabbies legal help.
 
