PUNE: The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) has zeroed in on a contractor to build a long-delayed solid   plant at Hadapsar trenching grounds but commissioning is not expected until 2019.

 The trenching ground, which the PCB has rented from a private party for more than a century, has always been contentious. 
 
 Local residents have repeatedly tried to get the grounds shifted for health and safety concerns, and there have been numerous fires over the years. Tonnes of garbage has accumulated here rather than being sent to waste processing plants, due to a dispute with Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).
 
 Orders from Bombay high court and   (MPCB) had mandated the PCB to find a permanent solution including building a solid waste management plant at the location.
 
 A stumbling block was the budget for such a plant, which had to be operated with the latest waste management technology, as mandated by MPCB’s orders. The PCB has thus walked the build-operate-transfer (BOT) path, and has approved a Thai company to construct the plant which says that the waste will be processed and   will be a by-product, a “waste-to-energy” plant.
 
 “We want our Cantonment to be a trendsetter in waste management. Our board is the first in India to adopt such waste management techniques, using the latest technologies. We want to proceed quickly with the approvals and enable the company to start construction,” PCB chief executive officer DN Yadav said.
 
 The PCB will not incur any expenditure in building the plant, but will pay the company for the period of operation, depending on the amount of waste processed. Officials add that the electricity generated as a by-product of the processing can be used by the company for profit.
 
 “We have decided to award the BOT contract for a period of 15 years. We will not spend anything building the plant, but we will pay around Rs 380 per tonne of waste processed. According to our estimates, the company will need to spend around Rs 25 crore. But there are profit opportunities. The company will be given the freedom to market and sell the electricity that will be a by-product of the process,” Yadav added.
 
 While officials have floated 18 months as a period of commissioning for the plant, they also say that the approval of the designs by various authorities, including the   (MoD) can be time-consuming.
 
 “The design will need to be approved by the military authorities and especially by the MoD. There will also be legal vetting. Overall, after the designs are approved, it will take around 18 months to construct the plant. We are looking to operationalize the plant by early 2019,” a senior PCB official said.
 
 
