GUWAHATI: In a series of operations against the fake Indian currency notes ( ) racket in the state,   arrested at least three persons and seized two   on Thursday. Around Rs 4.2 lakh of counterfeit notes, mostly in Rs 2000 denominations, were seized in the operation. 

 In the first operation, Hamren Police seized a fake note-printing machine from a clandestine location at Harlongjubi village in Karbi Anglong district and arrested two persons. "Special blank papers, used for printing the notes, were also seized from the printing press. The arrested persons were identified as Bajong Timung and Bidyaram Teran," police sources said.
 
 Besides fake notes of Rs. 2,000 denominations, small notes were also seized. "The duo is suspected to be involved in exchanging notes on commission.   department has been informed about the recovery too," sources added.
 
 At the same time, in a separate operation in Darrang district, police nabbed one Billal Hussain, along with a fake note-printing machine, from Ananda Bazaar village of Dhula. Police are quizzing him to nab others involved in the racket. "Inks and printers used for the purpose of manufacturing fake notes were also seized," added police.
 
 With the latest seizures, FICN worth over Rs 6 lakh has been seized across the state within the last fortnight alone. Last week, while one person from Bongaigaon, Sarat Basumatary, was arrested with Rs 85,000 from the city's Lokhra area, Border Security Force (BSF) personnel seized Rs 1 lakh in Rs 2000 notes from Khagrachar village near the Indo-Bangladesh international border in south Salmara district. 
 
 FICN worth around Rs 95,09,000 has been seized from across Assam whereas FICN with face value of Rs 10,25,000 has been seized from neighbouring Meghalaya in the last three years.
 
 Recently, the National Investigation Agency ( ), which is probing the FICN racket across the country, alerted state police that high quality counterfeit notes printed in Pakistan are being smuggled to the state through Bangladesh.
 
 The police source said, "An agent is offered between Rs 40,000 to Rs 60,000 for each lot of FICN worth Rs 1,00,000 from Bangladesh. Once it reaches India through Assam from Bangladesh, a huge chunk of it goes to Uttar Pradesh and the southern states, particularly to locations from where terror modules are operating."
 
 
