Panaji: Campaigning for the 2017 polls began with parties aligning based on their stand on the medium-of-instruction (MoI) issue and still others were forced to clarify their stand on grants to schools based on MoI. But, as the polls draw close, MoI seems to have lost out as a priority for voters. A young artiste and enterpreneur, Suchita Narvekar, was part of every protest organized by Bharatiya Bhasha Suraksha Manch (BBSM) prior to 2012. BBSM eventually went on to form Goa Suraksha Manch (GSM), which has tied-up with Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party and Shiv Sena for the 2017 polls. But, Narvekar, like other protestors, has distanced herself from this political front. “MoI can be a part of the manifesto and cannot be the sole aim of a party. We want development to take place in Goa, which can only happen if we have a stable government. GSM was formed to settle some personal scores between the BJP and GSM leaders,” said Narvekar. For some time now, Forum for Rights of Children to Education or FORCE has been silent. It represents the chief opposition to BBSM and supports continued grants to the 127 English medium primary schools. Savio Lopes, now, says that parents who are with FORCE will vote for any one of the parties that are for continued grants, indicating that MoI alone will not be a criteria. BJP, Congress, Aam Aadmi Party, Nationalist Congress Party and Goa Forward Party are some of the parties that support continued grants. Subhash Velingkar, who heads the opposition to grants to English-medium schools, has now been forced to look beyond MoI to be able to pull voters to GSM.  “We are not only about MoI for regional languages. We are also against casinos, for providing employment opportunities to the youth,” he recently told TOI. Congress spokesperson Yatish Naik feels that the aggressive campaign for grants only to MoI in regional languages could in fact hurt parties propagating the idea.  “Some forces are trying to polarise society using the MoI issue and people of Goa have already made up their mind to reject such forces,” he said. Voters tend to assess candidates as an individual first, rather than issues, and even there the MoI issue is last on the voters’ mind, an observer said. “People tend to see individual performance, if a sitting MLA has provided jobs in the family or not. For some voters, the gifts offered will matter. But even for those choosing based on issues, they might ideologically support grants to Konkani/Marathi schools, but may not necessarily practice it when it comes to the schooling of their children. Parties that only make MoI an issue are seen as a passing phase,” he said.