AURANGABAD: The   has deployed a large chunk of funds, that is Rs 1,87,223 crore, to the  , but   from   as well as experts feel the   has been left high and dry. 

 They said the government has not clarified a number of issues, including how it plans to double the income of farmers by the year 2022. They pointed out that the government’s idea of stressing on dairy and fisheries is ‘impractical’ in Marathwada. 
 
 Umakant Dangat, who recently retired as revenue divisional commissioner, said the basic change in policy is needed for bringing an end to the agrarian crisis, including farmer suicides. Today’s budget was focussed on secondary and tertiary sectors, leaving the primary sector (agriculture) way behind, he said.
 
 “Marathwada region’s farmer suicide issue needs to be tackled on a priority basis. The government should have taken some steps in this regard,” he added.
 
 H M Desarda, an economist and former member of the state planning board, said that although the budget has been cleverly drafted, it lacks clarity in terms of what farmers will get. 
 
 “There is hardly any relief for farmers from the drought-hit region of Marathwada. The government failed to take serious cognizance of the issues faced by farmers in drought-prone regions like Marathwada, due to which farmer suicides will continue,” he said.
 
 Pradeep Purandare, water expert, said the Union Budget speaks about new laws on contract farming, economic offenders, regulatory framework for medical education and electoral bonds. “The government should have announced similar steps regarding the national water framework law, model bill on groundwater and restructuring of CWC & CGWB,” he said. 
 
 Deepak Joshi, a farmer from Paithan, said, “We want things to change at the grassroot level, so that even the marginal farmer becomes financially sound, thus refraining from committing suicide,” he said.
 
 Avdhut Shinde, another farmer, said, “The finance minister announced setting up of soil testing labs across the country, but I don’t understand how these labs would help if we do not have irrigation facilities, availability of fertilizers, seeds at reasonable rates and good price for our farm produce.”
 
 
