COIMBATORE: Nine months after the city-based   (SBI) and the   signed a memorandum of understanding, 20 new varieties of sugarcane developed by SBI are undergoing field trials.

 With many of the plants being on the field for the last six months, sugar factories are getting ready to start evaluating the sucrose content in the crops. Factories had decided to start trying the new varieties on fields, instead of waiting for the government to release them, to save time.
 
 Nine major sugar factories across the state, including Bannari Amman Sugars, EID Parry and Rajshree Sugars, had planted 20 new varieties of sugarcane developed by SBI. “We gave them the new varieties, with different properties like early maturing (10 months maturing), mid to late maturing (12 month maturation) and short duration varieties (eight-month crops). All of them also show potential for better quality yield and a slightly higher sucrose content,” said SBI director   Ram. 
 
 The varieties are also resistant to the red rot disease and are non-flowering, because flowering leads to a fall in sucrose content, said principal scientist with the institute’s crop improvement division, Hema Prabha. 
 
 “We gave the cuttings of the new varieties to the companies in October 2016. They took three months to multiply them and start distributing them to the farmers they have tied up with. They have been in farmer’s fields for the past six months,” said Ram.
 
 By tying up with nine different factories, SBI has ensured that the varieties will be tried across nine different agroclimatic zones in the State including Thanjavur, Nellikuppam, Sivaganga, Thiruvannamalai and Erode.
 
 As part of the trial, the companies are set to start evaluating and assessing the sucrose content, especially because many of the varieties are only eight-month old crops. 
 
 “The companies will start checking the sucrose content at regular intervals from next month, to arrive at the correct time to harvest the crop. Varieties in which the crops can give a sucrose content of around 10% in six to seven months, and the yield is high, will be considered successful,” said agriculture extension scientist at SBI, Puthira Prathap. “The whole point of the Sweet Bloom project is to find a successful alternative to the existing Co 86032 variety, the falling sugar recovery rates and yield of which is a cause of concern among farmers and corporates,” he said. 
 
 Prabha said, “Successful short-duration varieties are likely to be preferred by many farmers in the State, especially after the drought. The shortage of water prompted many farmers to harvest immature crops because they feared that the crops would die due to lack of water,” she said. This in turn had led to many crops having almost zero or less than 5% sucrose content.
 
