PUNE: Nearly 45% students of the Pune Municipal Corporation-run schools may not get   this winter.

 Of the 1.14 lakh students studying in the  , only 62,664 may get sweaters this year. Officials of the   ( )’s school board believe at least 20,000 students are expected to get their sweaters this week. 
 
 Last year, activists had protested against the poor quality sweaters. PMC gives sweaters and other academic material to its students every year. The 45% students not getting sweaters this year will get a sweater next year. This alternate pattern would be used in sweater distribution, said an official.
 
 Wool will be missing from the sweaters this time also and officials have cited high cost as the reason for its absence. It means, the sweaters will not bring warmth if temperatures dip. 
 
 Vasanti Kakade, the chairperson of the PMC’s school board said, “Initially, we thought of having a combination of 70% acrylic and 30% wool. But the cost per sweater would have been too high in that case and we could have procured only 10,000 sweaters with the allocated budget of Rs2 crore,” said Kakade.
 
 Acrylic gives less warmth than wool. Also, sweaters made of it lose shape, said a source.
 
 The parents of PMC-run schools’ students are livid over the civic body’s sweater distribution system in institutions. Shivajinagar resident Laxmibai Chandane, is one among them. A maid in several houses, her two children study in a PMC-run school. 
 
 “Two months of winter are over and my children still haven’t got sweaters. I have stopped trusting the school and used some amount from the Rs3,000 I earn in a month to buy them sweaters. When will PMC realize how a small assistance in time can be a big help to us,” Laxmibai said.
 
 Kakade said, “The process took this long because of the retendering we had to do. There was a government decision to transfer the amount directly to students’ account. But there was no further communication and we were also a bit wary as there was a chance that the money might not be utilized for the purpose it was intended. Hence, we finally decided to float tenders again.”
 
 Kakade said, “After the retendering on November 22, we got many offers. We scrutinized them in December and selected a few. We sent the samples for lab testing. Looking at the test results and the minimum price per piece, we gave the work order a few days ago.” 
 
 
