PUNE: Cashing in on high vehicle density in the city, three persons opened the locks of a car parked outside a housing society at Karvenagar within a jiffy and drove away in the early hours of Tuesday.

 Businessman Rasanand Mishra (39) had parked his 10-month-old vehicle worth Rs12 lakh just outside the compound wall of the society. Senior inspector B G Misal of the Alankar police station said, “A watchman of the neighbouring society had seen the trio driving away in the car in the early hours, but did not bother to raise an alarm."
 
 Mishra said he had purchased the white   (MH 12 ML 5052) for his personal use and had appointed a driver. He usually parked his car on the premises of   society in Karvenagar. But at times, he had to park it on the road when parking space was not available inside.
 
 “We reached home around 8pm on Monday . My driver parked the car along the road near the main gate of the society because the parking lot inside was full. I had left the car outside the society many times in the past as almost 25 cars are parked there every night,“ Mishra said.
 
 He said when he came down from his flat to drop his children at the pickup point of their school bus around 7am on Tuesday , he did not find his car where it was parked on Monday night. “I searched for it in nearby palaces. When I could not find it, I alerted my friends,“ Mishra said.
 
 Mishra and his two friends searched for the car in different areas in Karvenagar and then approached the Alankar police.
 
 
 
 
 Senior inspector Misal of the Alankar police station said the police immediately procured the  . “We found that the car was stolen exactly at 2.07am on Tuesday," he said.
 
 Misal said a   car stopped near the parked Innova. “Three men got down from it and went near the parked vehicle. Within a few seconds, they succeeded in opening its lock. One of them took charge of the wheel and started it. Then all of them left the spot in the two cars,“ Misal said adding, the accused did not break the glass of the car to get in.
 
