BHOPAL: The Rs 400 crore ambitious   of the   (BMC) is under a cloud of uncertainty, after it was announced that city’s abattoir facility would be set up near the same location. It’s not public resentment against construction of abattoir in Adampur Chhawani, some 15 km from Bhopal as residents of Kolua Khurd and adjoining villages allege they have not been consulted in the process.

 At the height of the winter season this year, local residents objected to foundation laying ceremony by MLA Rameshwar Sharma for a road that would connect Raisen road to the municipal solid waste (MSW) plant through Kolua Khurd village.
 
 As per original plan a five kilometre road MSW site to bypass road connecting   has been proposed. MLA’s move would save on the construction of longer road. However, the move would adversely impact some nearby villages including 600 residents of Kolua Khurd.
 
 “There are around 25 villages that would be adversely affected by the proposed construction. Politicians are not bothered about our fate,” said Janpad member and owner of a grocery shop, Kishan Choksey.
 
 Many like him are not landowners. Between the mushrooming educational institutes and smoke rising from illegal brick kilns, majority of local population are labourers striving for work and meeting their ends meet. Their anger have been further stirred up by news of establishment of slaughterhouse near the MSW plant.
 
 “The answer we get from the local administration and politicians is that it needs to be constructed here because of the directives of   (NGT). We would approach the   in the matter and seek relief,” said Grameen Sangrash Moorcha representative, Brijesh Jain. “Locals will not only protest against the slaughterhouse but also against the establishment of MSW plant as it would adversely affect the population and environment,” he added.
 
 On Monday, district administration admitted that over 2,500 objections against the setting up of slaughterhouse have been received. The objections came after protests at the district collectorate. District administration intimated for review and invited objections and suggestions over the setting up of abattoir at Adampur Chhawani from Feb 21 to Feb 25. One day in between was a holiday. Despite the short window, over 2,500 objections have to be reviewed by the district administration.
 
 Sources said that till Monday not more than 950 receipts pertaining to objections were provided by local Tehsildar’s office.
 
 In the last few months, ‘slaughterhouse’ has become a much understood word with the local population. A primary school at Haripura awaits relocation. Under the few handful of trees remaining in the once dense forest, locals sans politicians are making their strategy for a long struggle.
 
 “Government’s choice of this location is confusing. Barely a kilometre away, Sankal Padariya has been listed for promotion of eco-tourism. Other forest reserves are not far away. Would not be better for the government to opt for a better location,” said   worker and Sankal Padariya Sarcpanch, Suresh Indoria.
 
 “Around 600 people in Kolua Khurd alone and adjoining places are against the move to set up slaughterhouse and MSW plant. Politicians have only been opportunistic,” Kishan Choksey, Janpad member
 
 “I have been living here since birth. Never has there been any tension between communities. Many minority community members are against setting up of slaughterhouse,” Kishori Lal, Resident, Kolua Khurd 
 
 “The resentment is against the proposals of the government. Local population has not been consulted. A better alternative should be adopted for setting up of the plants.” Paramjeet Thakur, Student Adampur Chhawani
 
 “Government is going to give the land on lease to private companies. The location is adjacent to two water bodies. It would pollute nearby river streams and ground water,” Dharmesh Pandiya Resident
 
 “We have been let down by local politicians. They have not taken a stand yet and are waiting on the fence. We will fight for justice. If the technology is so safe why not install it in Bhopal,” Hariom Sharma, Resident.
 
