BHOPAL: “Hello sir, how are you doing? We are calling from a   company and can get you a loan easily,” a man would say, in soft voice, from the “call centre of a company”. Scores fell for the smooth talk.

 Those making calls from   took at least 150 people for a ride in cities across the state for at least a year. That was till Thursday when the mastermind and his brother ran out of luck and   cyber cell tracked down alleged conman Satish Sharma in Dewas. Co-accused Sanjay is at large.
 
 After the arrest of Satish alias Dharmendra Sharma, 25, it emerged that two brothers, the mastermind and his brother Sanjay, both natives of Sarangpur, were running a fake finance company with the help of small call centres at Dewas and Maksi, say the investigators. 
 
 Satish was arrested along with two employees, who prepared data of victims. Vikas Singh, 19, a resident of Dewas and Ramakant Joshi, 22, a resident of Shajapur. Cyber cell arrested two retailers and distributors identified as Sanjay Patel and Rajkumar Patel, both residents of Dewas, who used to provide duplicate SIMcards to Sharma.
 
 The incident came to light after Shaukat Ali, a resident of Nishatpura, registered an FIR on April 3. Ali was approached by a call centre of Satish Sharma operating from Dewas . The con company was introduced as Sundaram Finance, which promised Ali to provide him a loan under Pradhan Mantri Swarnim Rozgar Yojana. After convincing him, they asked him to send a processing fee of Rs 35,000 in three accounts, a demand to which Ali readily agreed. But the gullible man never heard anything from them again.
 
 On being investigated, whole racket on the name of providing loan was being operated across the state as well as some cities of Rajasthan.
 
 Inspector (cyber cell) Bhopal, Ravikant Daheriya said, “On the basis of bank details, we first traced bank accounts holder. The accounts belonged to Jyoti Tiwari, a resident of Ujjain. Tiwari, who used to run a cooperative society and was the victim of Satish. He also promised her to provide a loan.”
 
 According to information provided by Daheriya, Sharma had taken account numbers, ATM, PAN and Aadhar cards of Tiwari and her staff on the pretext of providing them loan. 
 
 He used these bank accounts to receive money from other victims in the name of processing fee.
 
 Tiwari informed police Sharma came in contact with her and the employees working in her cooperative society a year back. He initially approached her and roped her and her staff promising them loan.
 
 Cyber cell informed Sharma hired eight girls and two boys to run call centre located at Bajrang Nagar in Dewas and gave them a salary of Rs 5,000 per month. He would give advertisement about his company with eight phone numbers in newspapers to exploit innocent people.
 
 Sharma duped around 150 people in Bhopal, Shajapur, Dewas, Ujjain, Maksi and other towns, police said. He managed to dupe people of Rs 14-15 lakh in a year’s time. Satish claimed he took to cheating people after GN finance company duped him of lakhs, leaving him bankrupt. 
 
 Sharma along with his two accomplice was produced in a court on Friday and remanded to judicial custody.
 
 On the basis of bank details, we first traced bank accounts holder. The accounts belonged to Jyoti Tiwari, a resident of Ujjain. Tiwari, who used to run a cooperative society and was the victim of Satish. He also promised her to provide a loan. Sharma had taken account numbers, ATM, PAN and Aadhar cards of Tiwari and her staff on the pretext of providing loan.
 
