The first thing that strikes you about   when you watch her at a concert is her cherubic smile. There are times when rasikas walk in and out of the hall, the audio fails' but she smiles right on. 'You will have to nurture that ability' to keep calm during concerts,' she smiles. A name to reckon with in the classical music scene in India, Sudha has one request ' not to call her a 'legend'. 'The word 'Legend' is being used for everyone and anyone. My guru ML Vasanthakumari and singers like MS Subbulakshmi, DK Pattamal, are legends,' she smiles. Excerpts...

 
 Irrespective of whether I sing or not, I have never felt that disconnect. Of course, I was a little sad to have taken a break, especially after singing for the last 30 years without a break. But I took that decision knowing that it will be good for me. I was able use that time to listen to a lot of concerts and take care of my health. I began with the Times concert last year and actively sang from the month of April. Since I was singing from the beginning of last year, I didn't feel off when I did my first season kutcheri on November 27, last year. Of course, there was some anxiety. But that happens before I start the season every year.
 
 
 I am not pressured, but of course, I feel responsible and happy. I own the responsibility taking this tradition forward. MLV amma was known for her creativity, for certain nuances and characteristics that she has in her concerts. Chiselling those to perfection, matters. More than the pressure, I call it a challenge to hold on to the tradition, and at the same time, give it my own individual identity. Ten years ago, I would have thought twice about sing certain kritis. Today, I don't feel that way. If I listen to a particular kriti or if I hear any present-day singer render it, and if I am attracted to it, I would definitely want to add my own modulation to it. The challenge here is to carry forward the legacy and yet, bring an element of the new. But that diminishes when you have people look up to you as MLV's student. There is a great level of joy, which I can't explain.
 
 
 I hold it very high! I enjoy and celebrate the language in various forms ' be it music, culture or anything that has a Tamil flavour. Even simple things like wearing my pattupodavai, mallipoo, thiruneer or pottu ' I take so much pride in it. It is unfair to ban  . It has been happening for so many years and still happens in a different name in Andhra Pradesh. I don't understand why they had to do this. The people who own these bulls refer to them as their own children. But now, they say we are torturing and harming the animals. I hope the verdict is in our favour.
 
 
 I don't know if I had imagined it back then (laughs). But I don't deny that the fact that I am an ambitious person. I still remember what my mother said' to always do something to the best of my ability. Be it practicing, learning or doing an invocation ' I have to give it my all. Once I became the disciple of MLV, there was a no looking back. Music took centerstage. I used to simply love looking at her, watching her sing, and noticing how people saw her. In that process, I knew I wanted to grow into someone who would touch higher peaks. But those thoughts didn't occur to me then. It was a slow process. I am not what I am without my rasikas. They are the ones supported and loved me. 
 
 
 
 I think there are two categories in this. One is for those people where music comes naturally to them. There are musicians who are gifted by the almighty with various traits and who have an uncanny talent for grasping music. For them, it is OK. But even then, training period is important in the life of a singer. The longer you train, the better it is for your voice. You can't do concerts easily. One has to take time out for introspection, you have to go back and see what you could have done better, what could have been be avoided, and so on. It is also important to listen to other musicians. You shouldn't promote yourself too much during the early stages of your career. Having only a few years of training in music won't help your voice. Your voice has to be honed to perfection, only then sangathis will flow. Our music is gamaka-oriented, so the voice culture, training and exercise are very important. Singing kritis require finesse of the voice. I don't know the current method of teaching. Like you mentioned, people are in a hurry to perform on stage. I learnt music due to my passion for it ' singing at a sabha was never my intention then. In fact, when my mother enrolled me for music classes, I didn't even think of doing concerts in the future. It was only after learning under MLV amma that I realised I might get such a platform in the future. One has to be slow and steady in the singing circuit. The gurus and parents should advice and decide when the time is right for their students to sing. For students, it takes a year to hold the sa' pa', look at thalams, among others. Today, I guess everything is taught at the same time. They have to take it slow.
 
 
 It wasn't deliberate. Like I mentioned earlier, being natural has its advantage. You need to have an aptitude to learn. Though my children have been listening to my music, I didn't push them into it. My daughter had some interest initiall, but she got into Bharatanatyam later. Her skills and rhythmic aspects came easily to her, so I was happy that she'd made the cut for dance. But after growing up, she took interest in the field of science like her brother. As a mother, I had to give them freedom. They love music, classical and western, and are doing well for themselves in their career.
 
 
 Definitely! More than being unhappy, it creates restlessness. At times, I become angry with myself. Yes, I am learning, performing and improving my repertoire, but I know I should stretch my time to create the next parampara. I have five students, who are doing well, but I should train more students. Passing the baton to the next generation is extremely important.
 
 
 I respect and admire all my contemporaries. I like different qualities in each of them. I don't want to sound clich'd, but the fact is, I do follow their work. It's true that you can't reach this point without having talent. But one can't ignore the comparisons, either. There will always be a group that will keep saying something. But I look at it in a positive way as it is they who keep pushing me higher.
 
 
 I have always believed that if a particular song has to be heard in your voice, you'll somehow get the opportunity. Having said that, whatever I have sung until now had a quality, which has left a mark on the audience. When I got the opportunity to sing for Ilaiyaraaja for Ivan, I was in two minds as this opportunity came my during the Margazhi season. This was way back in 2002 when I was doing over 20 concerts a month. I was worried about my voice getting strained, and shared the same concern with Raaja sir. But he was too kind and promised that it wouldn't happen. We recorded for six hours. I have rendered songs for Yuvan Shankar Raja, Bhavatharini, Vidyasagar, MM Keeravani and Harris Jayaraj. His Annal Mele is close to my heart. I am happy with whatever I have done so far as it has helped to reach out to people who haven't heard my music.
 
 
 
 At that moment, I was on a high ' it was overwhelming. I got the award during the 87th year. These have been passed through so many generations, which shows the number of legends who have won it. When you look at it in that way, it is just a trivial thing. But yes, I get emotional when such awards come my way. Later, it sinks into me, and being responsible is what matters. I ensure that my concerts are packed in an interesting way. I also look forward to equipping myself better. I want to see what I can leave behind in the Carnatic music realm. You have to set an example for the younger generations and it weighs on what you do.
 
 
 Looking at how the event happened last year, I am really looking forward to it. I really commend the efforts of the Times of India for this endeavour. It really motivates and inspires the younger generation to sing and earn that title.
 
 
 
 
