AURANGABAD: The   has hit the city’s wholesale egg market as   for a batch of 100 on Sunday. This is around Rs 70 less than what local dealers had anticipated.

 Winter generally brings with it a heavy demand for eggs as the protein-laden food promotes body heat during the cold. Egg prices subsequently shoot up as consumption increases manifold and sales go up 100%. The trend, however, appears to have changed this year as the demand for eggs has slipped and prices have follow suit.
 
 “December to January is peak season for egg sales. We sell over 15,000 eggs each day and prices are high. But, since markets are facing shortage of currency notes post  , our trade has encountered a rough patch. We could not sell even 8,000 eggs in one day and prices are falling with every passing day,”  , one of the egg sellers, said.
 
 Aziz said that the wholesale price of eggs between December and January should not have been less than Rs 450 per 100, while in the retail market it should have been sold at around Rs 5 per egg. “Most shopkeepers and retailers are not buying eggs to their capacity. Citing poor demand for the heathy food supplement, they are buying half of their normal demand,” he said.
 
 The retail price of eggs is somewhere at Rs 4.25 to Rs 4.5 per egg at many localities. Aziz has recently registered himself with an online payment facility to attract more customers, but is yet to see encouraging results. “Basically, customers aren’t willing to spend money and are buying only essential items,” he said.
 
 Another wholesaler said that restaurant and hotel owners are not buying eggs since demonetisation. “Majority of my customers are restaurant and hotel owners who contribute to 60% of my total sales. There is a slowdown in the sector because of the prevailing cash crunch,” he said.
 
 Apart from this, some egg wholesalers believe that the poor inflow of tourists in the city and few parties and ceremonies here have also hit demand.
 
 According to a rough estimate, over 2 lakh eggs are consumed in the city each day on an average, but the figure surpasses the 4-lakh mark between January and December.
 
 
