GREATER NOIDA: A 50-year-old man was killed and five members of his family were injured when a leaking LPG cylinder caught fire, exploded and ignited combustible material in the house, resulting in a blaze that engulfed the entire house. 

 There were multiple blasts in the house where the fire broke out around 3pm when the victim, Pappu, arrived at his house on   in Dadri for lunch.
 
 His daughter Shavi was making tea when the leaking LPG cylinder in the kitchen exploded as soon the stove burner was lit, one of the victims, Shahrukh, said.
 
 “My sister was in the kitchen when the leakage happened and a blast followed. Soon, the television too caught fire and the fire spread to the entire house,” he said.
 
 Locals pointed out that fireworks used to be made inside the two-storey house and a lot of flammable material kept inside caught fire, leading to multiple blasts.
 
 According to eyewitnesses, the occupants’ cries for help could be heard outside and villagers gathered at the spot.
 
 A fire tender reached the spot within half an hour and took more than an hour to control the fire. 
 
 The blasts were so strong that they led to one of the front walls breaking into pieces which landed on the neighbour’s terrace.
 
 The six persons suffered burns including Pappu (50), Aisha (16), Shavi (13), Shahrukh (16), Rehan (10) and Shabbo (45).
 
  They were taken to   in Dadri from where three of them — who were seriously injured — were referred to Navin Hospital in Greater Noida. Pappu later succumbed to his injuries.
 
 “Shavi has suffered very serious burns on her head, face and arms but she has undergone plastic surgery and will survive. Aisha too has burns on her face and head but she is stable,” he said.
 
 Rehan and Shahrukh are admitted to Navin Hospital in Dadri and their condition is stable. Shabbo has suffered minor injuries.
 
 Sources said firecrackers used to be prepared in the house without a licence but the police denied the claim. “Pappu now supplies kerosene to nearby areas. He used to prepare firecrackers around 10 years ago,” Dadri SHO Sanjay Tyagi said.
 
 
