PUNE: The Pune police has put on hold the disposal of seized vehicles stowed at police stations, as the state government has failed to appoint an auctioneer.

 The appointment is due since since 2014. With little space available, the vehicles stowed at police stations have become a major headache for the police. After 50 vehicles parked at the Dehu Road police station premises were gutted in a massive fire last week, the police had sent a letter to the government for appointing an auctioneer at the earliest.
 
 Joint commissioner of police   said, “We have requested the state government to expedite the appointment of an auctioneer, so that police stations can re-launch the drive to dispose   and those seized in accidents and crimes, after seeking permission from the courts.”
 
 Ramanand told TOI, “Unclaimed vehicles can be auctioned and the sale proceeds go to the state government. But in case of stolen vehicles, the owner claims insurance. If a vehicle is seized, the owner is reluctant to claim it. Insurance companies also do not claim them as they can’t be auctioned. We are also persuading the owners to collect the vehicles.”
 
 There are thousands of vehicles stowed at police stations because of the inordinate delay in appointing an auctioneer. They also occupy crucial public space like roads and footpaths.
 
 According to the police, it is mandatory to keep the seized vehicles as legal evidence. That’s why they pile up outside the police stations.
 
 A police officer said, “The assistant commissioner of police has the power to issue an order to dispose the vehicles. Then the police station in charge doesn’t need to seek an order from a magisterial court. But the order cannot be executed in the absence of an auctioneer.”
 
 Businessman   said, “Whenever an auction is held for selling vehicles, we participate in the bidding process and purchase old vehicles, dismantle them and sell it in scrap. A large number of vehicles have piled up at the police stations and even if an order for disposing of the vehicles is taken from the court, they cannot be sold due to the delay in appointing an auctioneer.”
 
 A home department official said, “The government will take a call on appointing an auctioneer after the municipal corporation elections.” 
 
 SC direction for vehicle disposal
 
 The   had passed an order in 2010 instructing all state government/union territories to ensure macro implementation of all case property, including vehicles under the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code. The director generals of police were directed to ensure that the activities of every police station, especially in the disposal of the seized vehicles, were taken care of by the inspector-general/commissioner of police /superintendent of police concerned. Any police officer not complying with the directions should be dealt with an iron hand, the SC had said.
 
 
