

 This shocking incident brings the focus back on the security measures at the 411-acre sprawling   campus.
 
 
 Sources claim there are approximately 100-120 security guards to monitor the SPPU campus. According to students, not enough security guards and poor street lights are some of the major security concerns within the premises. On October 16, 2016 Pune Times had reported that security was beefed up after the murder of a security guard in 2012. The varsity had installed more   cameras and strengthened its security force.
 
 We had reported that action was also taken against tiffin suppliers, male students and strangers loitering around the girls’ hostels. The varsity had also closed the gate near Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics (IUCAA) in order to restrict the entry of strangers into campus.
 
 
  When 
  decided to visit the campus after the molestation incident came to light, we found out that the IUCAA is still closed for outsiders. However, the Joshi Gate, near Khadki is open and there are security guards manning the entrance. But students say that miscreants from the local slums often enter the premises, despite the security.
 
  
  
 Students point out that the stretch from the Post Office to the girls’ hostel is unsafe. “The stretch is not well lit and there have been instances of accidents and harassment,” said a student from the girls’ hostel. While narrating an incident of another hostel student, she added, “My friend who is part of the University’s Earn and Learn scheme was walking through a similar stretch when a biker hit her on her back and zoomed away.”
 
 The varsity has only 125 guards, as opposed to 200 guards which should be deployed to man the 411 acre area of the campus. 60 guards by another security agency are yet to be deployed by the agency. A senior official from the varsity said, “The contract renewal has been done for the 60 guards, but the agency is yet to provide manpower to the varsity.”  , Registrar, Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) said, “The university cannot rope in private security guards and when we approach a government body, they are unable to provide adequate manpower. We have written several letters to the guard board regarding the issue and have also written to the government.” He added, “After the incident last week, we have deployed three guards who will be manning the stretch round the clock.”
  
 
 According to Amol Sarawade, one of the students who reached the spot after hearing the girl’s alarm said, “I was with a friend and we were on our bike when we heard a scream. The area was dimly lit and we could only see the silhouette of a person who ran into the bushes before we could nab him. We alerted the varsity security, who visited the spot and then we went to the police station.”
 The cops are yet to take any action because no FIR has been lodged. The girl who was molested spoke to us and said, “I was shaken up and narrated the incident to the cops after which, they accompanied me to the spot. Right now my internal exams are on and I am still trying to recover from the trauma caused by the incident. I will need to psyche myself up to lodge an FIR.”
 
  
  
 Dayanand Dhome, Senior Inspector, Chaturshrungi police station said, “We need the person to lodge a complaint or give us a letter which we can use as a statement. If she is not willing to file a complaint, but her statement or letter reveals that the incident is a cognizable offense, we can then register a case and start investigating.”
 
 
 According to students, the stretch where the incident took place has been a vulnerable spot. “We have submitted letters to the University authorities about the security issue, but no action has been taken. Apart from the lack of enough security guards, there are not enough street lights inside the campus,” Amol added.
 
 
  
 
