KANNUR: The management of the  , where the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test ( ) examination was held on Sunday, suspended four   who were on   after the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) issued a statement terming the incident at the Kannur school as unfortunate. CBSE also asked the school principal to tender an unconditional apology to the candidate.

 The directive for the apology came after CBSE chairman R K Chaturvedi met Union human resource development minister Prakash Javadekar in New Delhi.
 
 Two days ago, a woman candidate had a harrowing experience when she was asked to remove her bra ahead of NEET because it had a metal hook.
 
 According to a release issued by the management of TISK English Medium School at Kovvappuram near Kunhimangalam on Tuesday, teachers – Sheeja, Safeena, Bindu and Shahina – were suspended, pending enquiry. The decision was taken after a discussion between the representatives of the school management and DYFI, it said.
 
 In the statement issued on Tuesday, CBSE regretted the inconvenience caused inadvertently to the candidate. “The incident at TISK English Medium School is very unfortunate and (happened) apparently due to the consequence of few overzealous female frisking staff of the school, involved in the process. CBSE has advised the school principal to tender an unconditional apology to the candidate,” said CBSE’s statement.
 
 However, the candidates were informed, well in advance, about the frisking guidelines and dress code, and this regulation came into force after the police reported attempts to use micro Bluetooth-enabled devices hidden in ears and innerwear during the All India Pre-Medical and Dental Test in 2015, it said.
 
 CBSE would further sensitise the frisking staff to prevent such incidents in future and it would take all necessary measures to ensure that students appear for examination in a relaxed mood without compromising the sanctity of the examination, it said.
 
 Meanwhile, the police have registered a case against the teachers. Police said the case, filed under IPC sections 405 and 409, was taken on the basis of the complaint filed by the student. However, since the complaint has not named anybody, the case has been taken against staffers who were on frisking duty, said police.
 
 Earlier in the day, the SFI had taken out a protest march to the school. SFI asked central government and the CBSE to take stringent measures to ensure such incidents are not repeated in future.
 
 It was on Sunday that the incident was reported from the exam centre, where the girls were asked to remove anything that had metallic content, including dress, as the guidelines did not permit them to allow   inside the examination halls. Some girls had to cut short the sleeves of their tops, as the guidelines said only half-sleeves would be allowed.
 
