GURUGRAM: Illegal borewells continue to be dug inside the Aravalis — the water recharge zone critical to the   — despite a blanket ban. A complaint filed with the Gurgaon deputy commissioner (DC) alleges 20 borewells were dug in the past month inside Ansal Aravali Retreat, a private colony of 675 farmhouses spread over 1,200 acre in Raisina village. Following this, the DC has directed a probe and action against the activity, declared illegal since 2011.

 “Twenty borewells were illegally dug under the patronage of   (ARRWA) and its office bearers in last one month. Office bearers and RWA members regularly accept bribes of up to Rs 2 lakh per borewell from contractors who operate illegally, which is then distributed between them and local policemen,” read the complaint to the deputy commissioner, which contains details of farmhouses, their owners and contractors who dug the borewells, along with contact details of each. It demanded an independent probe by checking call records of the alleged perpetrators.
 
 Gurgaon DC Hardeep Singh, on Tuesday, asked Gurgaon’s Groundwater Cell (OF?) to probe the matter (TOI has a copy of the letter). “A complaint was received through the DC, regarding misuse of groundwater by illegally dug borewells in Raisina village in the Aravalis,” said Virendra Lamba, hydrologist at the cell. He said concerned block development and panchayat officers have been directed to investigate the matter and submit a report in 15 days. “If they report of any illegal borewell in the report they submit after inspection, the department will take strict action,” said Lamba, adding the cell cannot allow borewells in the Aravalis as it affects the environment.
 
 He admitted they have heard of allegations that a group of people have built farmhouses and have been illegally digging borewells, cutting trees, etc. “Strict action will be taken against these people,” he said. The central ground water authority ( ) had imposed restrictions on construction and installation of new structures to extract groundwater in the area, in their order dated August 13, 2011. The offence is punishable under Section 15-21 of the Environment Protection Act, 1986.
 
 Former ARRWA president   blamed personal enmity behind some association members for filing the complaint. “There are only six guards for an area spread over 1,200 acre. It’s not possible to keep track of what everyone is doing,” said Vats. Mukesh Arora, president of ARRWA, dismissed any knowledge of illegal borewells. “I’m unaware of any such thing,” he said.
 
 Vivek Kamboj of NGO Haryali said borewells are being illegally dug with the support of local police, who should have been enforcing the ban. “The ban has only increased the rate at which new borewells are being dug,” said Kamboj, adding this can only be stopped after all borewells, including old and existing ones, are plugged. “There is need for a blanket ban on borewells to arrest groundwater depletion.”
 
