Not many know that   approached   for his directorial debut, 'Maine Pyar Kiya', when she had just broken up with childhood sweetheart, Himalaya, as her parents were opposed to the match. When she realised that her father would not let her go abroad to pursue higher studies, the teenager gave the nod to Sooraj after he had returned with the role of Suman half-a-dozen times even though films did not interest her.
Midway through the making of the film, the estranged couple reunited and decided to get married. Bhagyashree's hero, Salman Khan, was the first to know. And with her parents staying away from the wedding, her filmi Prem became her proxy family.
 
 She returned to the sets a week after the wedding and by the time 'Maine Pyar Kiya' released on December 29, 1989, Bhagyashree was pregnant.And though the film went on to become one of Hindi cinema's biggest grosser and she bagged the Filmfare Award for Best New Face, she quit the industry to make a home and a family with her first love. Three years later, she returned to act in films, 'Tyagi' and 'Paayal', all opposite her husband. She was last seen in the TV show, 'Laut Aao Trisha', based on the Chilean telenovella Dónde está Elisa?
 and 28 years later, remains the girl-next-door every Prem still wants to take home to mamma.
 
 Now, Mirror has learnt that Bhagyashree's son,  , is gearing up to enter Bollywood with a quirky action comedy, 'Mard Ko Dard Nahin Hota'. He will be launched by  's production company and directed by Anurag's assistant Vasan Bala who has been working with him since Dev D.Vasan wrote and directed the 2012 crime-thriller 'Peddlers' which was screened at Cannes as part of the 2012 International Critics' Week.'
 
 Another newcomer, Radhika Madan, has been cast opposite Abhimanyu. Both are undergoing rigorous training for a year as the film has some never-before-seen hand combat action sequences. It also features Tamil star Vijay Sethupathi in a significant role. Confirming the news Anurag told Mirror, “Vasan has written a superbly funny and kickass martial arts film, the likes of which I have neither read nor seen. It's so local and so new that you can't help but marvel at it. And I'm glad I get to produce it. We in Phantom hope that it becomes a never before seen franchise with these maddeningly crazy characters.“
 
