By 
 

 “It was a terrible night,” Anantha Subramanyam K said on Sunday morning when he called to wish me on New Year. Anantha had been assigned to cover the New Year revelry on  , where thousands of Bengalureans converge every year on its last night.
 
 “Girls were shouting, crying… There was chaos everywhere,” he continued. I have known Anantha professionally for over six years now and know that he calls up only when he’s on to something.
 
 “Send me the pictures,” I told him. An hour later, when I received the email I jumped out of the chair I was sitting in and got on the phone with my colleague, Binoy Valsan, who heads the crime bureau. Both of us flew into a fit of rage after looking at the pictures (several women had been molested as the crowd surged past midnight) and decided that we should front-page the apparent violation of women and lawlessness that prevailed on MG Road-Brigade Road junction in the small hours of January 1.
 
 Let’s call it Bengaluru’s night of shame, I suggested. Police will be shaken into action, we thought; the molesters will be arrested and the city will be slightly safer, we hoped.
 
 Four days after we broke the story, we are still thinking and hoping for the same; but Bengaluru police seem to be in a state of denial.
 
 We’ve tracked down 10 witnesses (at last count) who corroborated our story; women who were   multiple times went on record with their horror stories; the Good Samaritans who came to the rescue of some women in distress confirmed our story; colleagues who drove back home through the chaos concurred and shared their own nightmarish experience. The international media caught on to the story; but only after it had found independent witnesses with similar tales.
 
 
 
 
 The police chief is waiting for women to come forward and complain to them so that he can take action; his colleagues in the IAS, judiciary, and even a member of parliament have reminded him that he has the power to take suo moto action.
 
 
 
 
 The stock reaction of the others hasn’t been very different either. While Karnataka home minister’s reaction (“these kind of things happen”) is now the stuff of legends, others have blamed it on drink (“men and women were all tipsy there”), short dresses (“one girl was wearing a frock and her innerwear was showing, haw!”) or, most conveniently, on the women (“what else did they expect in a crowd of 10,000+?”).
 
 But the most disturbing justification? “It happens every year. What is the problem?” That IS the problem. That no place, at no time, is safe for a woman. That this fact doesn’t bother most people.
 
 The police reaction to BM’s story mirrors what women who shore up courage to lodge a formal complaint go through; the police’s basic instinct is to deny that the incident took place (which they’ve been doing). They then try to find faults in the complaint and question the motives/character of the complainant (the police, I’m told, are tracking Anantha’s movements while poring over the CCTV footage in order to discredit him; “why is he talking and smiling if he is distraught by what he saw,” is what one officer asked us).
 
 The police, led by the chief, say that the CCTV footage doesn’t prove anything (the one they’ve leaked so far shows a woman running to a lady officer and pointing towards the crowd; I’m no forensic scientist but I believe the footage does not prove that no girl was attacked in the crowd).
 
 The pictures of distraught women are not enough evidence; the video of women running scared – without footwear – is not enough evidence; that their own force had to resort to caning to control the unruly crowd is not enough evidence. So what should women do to make police believe they have been violated? Wear body cameras so that the act can be recorded?
 
 What use are all the laws, which were framed after that terrible December night in Delhi, when the police wouldn’t even acknowledge that a crime took place, leave alone catch the culprits, who perhaps assaulted other women (in Kamanahalli, maybe?) and will continue to do so.
 
 The perverts know that the police are probably now on their side.
 
