KOLHAPUR: Drive over to Palsambe village located in the Gaganbawda tehsil of Kolhapur district to experience the Ramling Caves, unique temples shrouded in mystery. 

  The caves are nestled amidst the lush foliage of medicinal plants, offering an oxygen-filled serene atmosphere. The site is home to monolithic temples believed to be where the Pandavas did their 'Tapascharya' in that era. Each of these temples is carved into a single laterite stone which is a major attraction for tourists. 
 
 What adds to the charm of the site is the pleasant weather around the year. "The panoramic view includes the cave structures with the monolithic temples, the green canopy of the forest and the high hills of the Sahaydris. The place is a treat for photographers," said Neha Raut, a city-based photographer.
 
 The splendour of Palsambe must be experienced specially during the monsoon when the heavy rainfall lends a chill to the atmosphere with a very beautiful waterfall flowing around the monolithic temples as a thick blanket of fog covers the site.
 
  Legend has it: There are three monolithic temples situated near a water stream near the Palsambe village. 
 
 Ganesh Kumar Khodke, officer at archaeological department, said, "These monolithic temples come under the Buddhist caves, which locals believe to be built by the Pandavas overnight. The monolithic temples are not only beautiful, but mysterious because none of them have any deities in their sanctum sanctorum'.
 
 Situated adjacent to them is a big natural cave with a Ganesha idol at the entrance and 'shivlingas' carved on its inner wall and one huge shivling situated at the centre. 
 
 "There are 12 such lingas and it is a local belief that these represent the 12 jyotirlingas. Even though the cave is dark round the clock, the main shivling in the cave is lit up with ignited with natural light flooding through the openings of the rocks above," Khodke said.
 
  How to get there: 
 
 The   route via Gaganbawda will set you on the road to Palsambe. Located 42km from Kolhapur city, an hour's drive will reach you to the site. Travellers will have to take a left from Vesraf village, 40km from Kolhapur. Proper signage is placed near the area giving sojourners a better idea about directions.
 
  Flora and Fauna: These monolithic temples are located near a stream and are engulfed in a thick canopy of lush green trees all around. 
 
 Environment researcher   said, "The site is famous for its snake population. Cobras, green wine snakes, bamboo pit wipers, shieldtail snakes can be spotted in the area surrounding the caves."
 
 Another specialty of the site is the dense population of the Entada plant, known as   in Marathi. The plant is known is highly used in Ayurvedic medicines.
 
