Several   celebrities such as 
 , 
 , 
 , 
  and 
 , wished a colourful   to their fans and urged them to play the festival of colours in a safe and eco-friendly manner. 

 Apart from extending vibrant greetings, stars also shared their favourite childhood Holi memories and emphasised on the innate significance of the celebration. Saif called for a subtle yet bright Holi and said the festival holds a special place in his heart. 
 
 "Holi used to be the most fun, colourful and festive celebration of the year in my childhood. Now, we have mellowed (it) slightly... Environmental awareness and the shortage of water leads to a slightly more responsible attitude..." 
 
 "And I look forward to a bar-b-que by the pool, a bit of colour and a nice family day!! Happy Holi India!! Have a blast!! (with non-permanent colour please!!)" Saif said. 
 
  
  
 Sharing one of her dearest Holi memories, Vidya said, "Having bhaang without knowing it was bhaang and then laughing all day. This was I think when I was 16." The 'Kahaani 2' actress said her "favorite Holi song would be definitely 'Rang Barse'. When you think of Holi, you think of that song." 
 
 Shraddha said, "Holi has always been a special time for me and my family. Everyone is together, a day filled with food, fun and family." 
 
 As harmony and brotherhood go hand-in-hand with the theme of Holi, actor Irrfan Khan emphasised that people should forget all their differences and immerse themselves in the riot of colours. "Make mockery of all your social programmings, get rid of all chhaap, tilak, play with colours till you lose your identity. Holi hai #HappyHoli," Irrfan wrote on Twitter. 
 
  
  'Commando 2' actress Adah Sharma also took to the micro-blogging site, where she asked people to abstain from troubling street dogs by putting colours on them. "On behalf of all the stray dogs (yes, I'm their official spokesperson)... This Holi, colour your hair red... Not your dog's! Enjoy #happyholi," wrote Adah alongside a video clip. 
 
  
  Filmmaker   posted, "#Holi is also a festival of love. Celebrates the Divine love of Krishna for Radha. Let colours of love splash all over the world. #happyholi" 
  
  While actress   gave advance greetings, by tweeting a colourful poster which read "Happy Holi". 
 
  
 Vivek Oberoi wrote, "Wishing you and your loved ones a very Happy Holi! May God bless you with colours of love and happiness! Have fun, play safe and keep it dry #Holi." 
 
  
 Amitabh Bachchan, who is not participating in the Holi celebrations this year, tweeted:
 
  
  Priyanka Chopra, who is currently shooting for the second season of American television show Quantico, shared a picture on Instagram wishing her fans a 'safe and beautiful Holi'
 
  
  Abhishek Bachchan posted an image of Holika burning, captioned: "May the Holika burn away all your sorrows and evils. #happyholi(sic)."
 
  
  Ileana D'Cruz, who is currently in London shooting for her upcoming film Mubarakan, shared a video with her co-stars Ahitya Shetty, Arjun and Anil Kapoor, captioned: "Just a little msg from @athiyashetty @arjunkapoor @anilskapoor and yours truly #mubarakan #mubarakaninlondon(sic)."
 
  
  Anushka Sharma shared a thoughtful message on social media. The 28-year-old actress posted an image of Shashi the friendly ghost from her upcoming film Phillauri urging fans not to throw colours on animals.
 
  
  
 Rishi Kapoor also urged his fans to protect the animals from colours during Holi
 
  
  Other celebrities like Preity Zinta, and Reitiesh Deshmukh also shared their wishes on Twitter and Instagram.
 
  
  
 
 
  Gurmeet Choudhary said, "I would like to wish my fans and well-wishers a happy and colourful Holi. BuAt, at the same time I would urge them to play safe and enjoy the festival." 
 
 
