HYDERABAD: It was once a picturesque valley. Lush. Green. A small house or two could be seen in the distance.

 A hillock sloping from the south, another from the north created a gentle ravine. A long time ago, a flowing stream mirrored the sun. Taking into consideration the unique natural beauty, the previous government declared it a protected heritage precinct.But that is a thing of the past. Now, it will soon be home to the city police's sprawling control and command centre in Banjara Hills, Road No. 12, with high rise towers etal.
 
 But, while on the one hand, previous governments notified the area as a `major natural valley and lake', on the other, they did little to stop its defiling. The control and command centre towers are just one of the additions, albeit massive. Smaller ones include the   Mu nicipal Corporation's (GHMC) training centre and guest house.
 
 In 2003, the government listed the precinct between   numbers 12 and 10 as `Heritage Precinct No.13 ­ Chiran Palace (Kasu Brahmananda Reddy Park) and the valley extending to  ' in the annexure to GO MS 4 M.A. The recently passed Telangana Heritage (Protection, Preservation, Conservation and Maintenance) Act does not list the valley as a protected precinct.
 
 Explaining its geography, former   member Sajjad Shahid said, “The boundary of the precinct starts from the north-west corner of Chiran Palace. It continued all the way to Ban jara Lake, which is now in a deplorable condition. On the south, the boundary began from Banjara Hills Road Number 1 and Road Number 13 junction and upwards along Road Number 13 till it hits Road Number 12 and then all the way to Chiran Palace.“
 
 The towers, heritage activists and experts fear, will take away the scenic beauty of the valley. “Imagine high rises coming up along the valley . The entire focus would be on them and not the valley,“ an expert, who did not wish to be identified, said, even as he pointed out that the Telangana Bhavan has also been constructed on the land identified as part of the precinct.
 
 The valley is also known as Singarha Valley . Singarha meaning water caltrop. A settlement within the valley by the name Singarha Basthi exists to this day. Those who have been residing in the area for decades say that the successive governments have failed to protect the valley.
 
 “I moved here in the early 1990s. Apart from a few houses in the basthi, there was nothing much. You could see a large part of the valley. Now, we have multi-storeyed structures on the north and south of the valley. The Singarha Basthi too, has grown with a larger number of pucca houses. It is sad that the view no longer remains,“ said Akram Ali Khan, a resident of the area.
 
 Others pointed out that the valley used to carry water from   when it overflowed during monsoons. The water flow culminated at Banjara Lake, which too is part of the heritage precinct. “With rapid urbanisation and fewer checks, there are several obstructions to the flow now. With Regulation 13 being scrapped, it is to be seen whether the to-be-constituted Telangana State Heritage Authority will declare it as a protected precinct,“ said a heritage expert.
 
