NEW DELHI: The government plans to come up with a national urban policy, waking up to its need in the light of reports that more than one-third Indians will be living in urban areas in the next four years and the urban population will reach nearly 82 crore by 2050.

 Sources said a decision was taken recently by the housing and urban affairs ministry as the   has mandated that all member-nations should have such a policy. “One of the first and foremost challenges is whether there is a legitimate governance and a trusted leadership. Without public consent in leadership, decisions are often undermined,” the UN Habitat report said.
 
 Way back in 1986, the central government had set up the   on Urbanisation under renowned planner and architect   to chart the roadmap for urban development covering small towns and big cities.
 
 The recommendations of the policy paper by this panel show how the planners had laid down the norms and identified the priorities for sustainable development ranging from housing for the poor to garbage management, recycling of water to huge thrust on mass public transport and empowerment of municipal bodies. It had even recommended taxation measures that would discourage landowners from keeping their land vacant and encourage proper utilisation.
 
 Identifying municipal finance as a major challenge, it had even suggested four banking institutions – Metropolitan Cities Development Bank, National Housing Bank, Urban Infrastructure Development Bank and  . The report had also recommended stricter enforcement of anti-pollution laws.
 
 Officials admitted this was the first ever exercise taken by the government.
 
 “We still have time to put things in order and a policy involving all stakeholders should be put in place quickly to streamline development and avoid further damage. We have certain structure and good models of urban development. There is a need to strengthen them and bring in new elements to meet the new challenges,” an official said.
 
 He added that the model of urbanisation has changed and there is rapid development on the outskirts of main cities and towns. Even industries are no more coming up in the cities. “The dimension has changed. We need to find solutions to the present urban mess, set up standards and norms, which can be replicated across the urban areas,” the official said.
 
 The share of urban population has gone up from 17% in 1951 to 29% in 2001 and is expected to increase up to around 37% by 2021. 
 
