MALAPPURAM: The decision of district collector Amit Meena, who is the returning officer for the   byelection in Malappuram, to accept the   of   candidate P K   triggered a controversy on Saturday with the BJP approaching the   (CEC) to reject his nomination papers and take action against the district collector. Kunhalikutty had filed four sets of nomination papers to contest the election. During the course of scrutiny on Friday,  , BJP and other candidates and their representatives raised objections against the affidavit filed by Kunhalikutty (Form 26).

 A K  , a nominated candidate of the constituency, filed a counter affidavit to the collector raising objections. The major objections against the affidavit filed by Kunhalikutty are ­ The column provided for furnishing the details of investment of the spouse of the candidate was kept blank. The column provided for furnishing the gross total value of movable assets for dependants (one to three) was left blank. The counter affidavit pointed out that suppression of facts was a punishable offence.
 
 Following objections, the collector conducted a detailed hearing.During the hearing, the complainants argued that the omission of the facts by Kunhalikutty was a purposeful suppression of facts. But, the advocate who represented the IUML leader said that it was an omission that occurred inadvertently while drafting the nomination, which would not amount to suppression of facts.
 
 He argued that the returning officer was not empowered to reject nomination papers based on minor discrepancies. Though he requested the collector to permit his client to furnish the missing details in the affidavit, the collector did not allow the same as severe objections were raised by others during the hearing.However, he accepted Kunhalikutty's nomination papers.
 
 However, the collector said that the instructions to the returning officers clarified that the nomination should not be rejected only because the affidavit contained `false or defective or incomplete' information.
 
 BJP, which opposed the collector's decision to accept the nomination of Kunhalikutty, felt that the move was unfair. The complaint submitted by BJP before the CEC states that the action taken by the collector was unfair considering the laws of the land. The party alleged that the collector took a decision that favoured Kunhalikutty.
 
 Addressing the media at Malappuram, senior leader P K Krishnadas said that the party was planning to approach the high court against the collector's decision. He said that the silence of LDF on this issue was a mystery since it would signal the `adjustment politics' between the league and the CPM. Meanwhile,   clarified that it would take up the issue only after bypoll.
 
