PUNE: For leaders in the city, the civic election is not just about fighting the other parties but also a tug-of-war with their own party leaders to control the reins in the party and in the civic body.

 The BJP’s guardian minister Girish Bapat and builder-turned-politician Sanjay Kakade are busy in a game of one-upmanship. Bapat is trying hard to keep his grip over the city unit and the civic body, if the BJP comes to power. Both managed to give nominations to their supporters and now are trying hard to get them elected in the PMC. Though both maintain there are no differences between them, party workers in the city are aware of the ongoing war between the leaders. 
 
 The NCP’s city unit chief and Rajya Sabha MP Vandana Chavan has outmanoeuvred her opponent MLC Anil Bhosale who has rebelled against the party. Bhosale wanted a candidature for his wife Reshma, but the party decided to field another candidate. Bhosale straightway sought the BJP’s help and his wife Reshma is now a BJP-backed independent candidate. 
 
 Bhosale has supporters in the NCP who are contesting as NCP candidates and he is ensuring that they win from their respective wards. These staunch supporters, if elected, will go with Bhosale. Kakade played a big role in facilitating Bhosale’s entry into the BJP’s camp.
 
 The now-faceless Congress is divided into several factions and the city unit chief Ramesh Bagwe is finding it difficult to manage the show on his own. 
 
 Party leader Vishwajeet Kadam remains unhappy with the fact that he was not given free hand in the city unit. “Leaders, who are never with the masses, have taken the front seats and hence the party is in the doldrums. Each leader is campaigning for his supporters and the actual fight is within the Congress to get more supporters elected,” admitted a Congress leader who is contesting for another term in the civic body. 
 
  city unit chief Vinayak Nimhan has succeeded in putting up a united face for voters, but the old Shiv Sena cadre is unhappy with his leadership.
 
 Once a strong supporter of rebel Shiv Sena leader  , Nimhan shifted loyalties to Congress and is now back with the Sena. Old Sena loyalists are trying to come together under the leadership of Sena veteran Shashikant Sutar. Though Sutar has not taken an open stand, Sena loyalists want him to play an active role in the city unit.
 
 The crisis within the MNS is critical. There is no leader and no face to the party which banks on Raj Thackeray’s popularity. An MNS corporator, who is contesting from the mid-city areas, said every candidate is fighting his own battle without any assistance from the party.
 
