From middle-aged ladies at the balconies signalling a flirty ‘hi’ to the handsome actor to the huge crowd of students,  , Noida welcomed   and   with power-packed liveliness. The actors were at the campus to promote their courtroom drama  , which releases on February 10.

  
  
 
 
 The students were enthralled even before Akshay and Huma had entered the campus. Tanmay Kocchar, a student, said, "We have been waiting for two hours and I am very excited to see Akshay Kumar coming here. Classes toh roz hoti hain. Akshay roz roz kahan aatein hain?" As soon as the actors entered the campus, the students couldn’t help but shout ‘Akshay Akshay’ at the top of their voices. While Akshay was sporting a cool grey tee with a pink cotton blazer, Huma was seen wearing an elegant and comfortable white dress.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  Stunt man: Akshay reaches to his fans from the university’s balcony (BCCL)
 
 
 The first thing that the cast did was to take pictures with the students at the university. Akshay, who was amazed at the crowd shouting his name, thanked his fans. "Thank you so much for your love. You guys are wonderful. Main apne college ke din bahut miss karta hun yaar. Bahut jagah gaya hun but aisa crowd nahi dikha kabhi," he said.
 
 The crowd was then showed a trailer of 'Jolly LLB 2' on a big screen, with Akshay briefing them about the theme of the movie. "Yeh kahani ek chhote se vakeel ki hai. This is one of my favourite films. You all should watch the movie because it shows what happens with the judiciary and what all they go through," he said.
 
 
  
  Chura ke dil mera: Akshay and Huma groove to some of his Khiladi hits (BCCL)
 
 
 
 The actor roamed around the balcony railing with full zeal and energy as he interacted with the crowd. He stepped across the railing and interacted with the students standing there. "Agar main neeche aa jaun toh pakad lena. Matlab agar main gir jaun toh pakad lena mujhe," he said. He also asked students to sing his favourite song along with him and everyone hummed in unison, ‘Tenu itna main pyaar karan’.
 
  
  Akshay with  ,  , Amity University
 
 Further, in his usual ‘khiladi’ style, he danced to the song ‘Chura Ke Dil Mera’ and performed his signature steps. The actor also distributed T-shirts to the students.
 
 Akshay plays an alumnus of the university’s Lucknow branch in 'Jolly LLB 2'. Interestingly, the Chancellor of Amity, Dr Aseem Chauhan also appears in the film in a scene with Annu Kapoor.
 
 -Priyanka.Narula@timesgroup.com
 
 
 
