IMPHAL: The BJP on Monday released a 'chargesheet' against the Okram Ibobi Singh-led Congress government in Manipur and blamed the chief minister for the deaths of hundreds of youths in fake encounters. 

 The BJP booklet titled '15 Years of Loot, 15 Years of Destruction in Manipur' says there are 1,528 cases of alleged fake encounters which are yet to be investigated. It adds that the state government did not do anything though the   held that these cases need to be investigated. 
 
 The BJP's move is being considered very significant at this juncture when Manipur's Iron Lady, Irom Sharmila, is contesting against Okram in Thoubal constituency. Sharmila has always blamed him for the extra-judicial killings in the last 15 years and criticized him for his failure to withdraw the Armed Forces Special Powers Act. 
 
 Highlighting the extra-judicial killing of reformed militant   and Rabina Devi, a pregnant woman, in Imphal in 2009, BJP said a constable has already confessed to the killing with alleged consent of senior officials. "The chief minister has allegedly stated that elimination is the only option in the assembly.... Can Manipur ever forgive the CM for his role in fake encounters?" asked the saffron party.
 
 The BJP's 'chargesheet' was released by state unit president   at the party headquarters here on Monday. BJP general secretary Ram Madhav was also present. 
 
 The 'chargesheet' also talks about corruption in the Congress government and the WikiLeaks report where US officials called Okram "Mr Ten Percent". BJP alleged that the Congress government in Manipur has a very high number of corruption cases against it. 
 
 It accused the ruling Congress of adopting a 'divide and rule' policy to retain power. "Their insensitive handling of issues like ILP, tribal rights,   and Jiribam have caused deaths, injuries and hardships to people. The divide between people in the hills and the Valley has worsened in the last 15 years," said the document. 
 
 The 'chargesheet' says the Rs 4000-crore road project funded by   is in jeopardy due to failure in maintaining law and order.
 
 BJP said the state accounted for over 64% of cases registered in the country under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. It added that the rate of kidnappings and abductions in the state is also higher than the national average.
 
 It accused the Congress government of awarding Rs 224 crore to a company which only existed on paper, for cleaning phumdis (floating bio-mass) from the Loktak Lake. The saffron party also alleged that the Okram government is involved in various scams in recruitment for government jobs.
 
 The 'chargesheet' says two sheds of women market in Imphal were damaged in an earthquake in January, 2016 due to poor quality of construction. It also takes a dig at the government for its failure to prevent bandhs and blockades in the state leading to losses to the tune of Rs 30 crore per day.
 
 Ram Madhav said a Congress-mukt Manipur is the need of the hour to save the state. "Ibobi has been shaving Manipur, but we want to save Manipur. We want to save Manipur from the hands of looters, " he added.
 
 State Congress chief TN Haokip said the document is false and baseless. "Before making these charges, BJP leaders should check their own credentials," he added. 
 
 Saying that Manipur faces numerous problems, Haokip said, "To charge someone is very easy, but to do good work is not an easy task. The Congress government has done so many things for the state." 
 
 
