PATNA: The biggest street carnival Patna has witnessed this year will return on Sunday with the fourth leg of   — a TOI initiative in association with Patna Traffic Police — at S K Puri Children’s Park Road, from the police check post on Boring Road to Bikaner Sweets Mor.

 It’s going to be a fun-filled three hours with a bit of everything, from dance, music, yoga and meditation to cycling (rent-free cycles will be made available at the venue to anyone showing a copy of TOI), football and badminton for the health enthusiasts.
 
 The past three editions of Happy Streets have been great success with hundreds of people from cross sections of the society — youngsters, professionals, homemakers and senior citizens — coming out on the designated street and indulge in the fun-filled activities for three hours from 6.30am. 
 
 “Happy Streets took me back to my childhood. It is great fun to be at TOI’s Happy Streets and participate in the various activities. Besides, promoting the message of curbing pollution and health consciousness, it also provides a platform to meet like-minded and fun-loving people,” said Patna Traffic SP P K Das.
 
 Inspired by Ciclovia in Columbia’s Bogota, it’s an event designed to encourage people to use non-motorized transport and prod the state to create support infrastructure. Happy Streets event aims to create a relaxed atmosphere to help participants unwind as well as raise awareness about healthy living, improving community interaction and adopting non-motorized transport options.
 
 On offer this Sunday will be a host of activities, including cycling, yoga, pitthoo, badminton, human snakes and ladders, hula hoops and skipping, cricket, football, skating, tug of war, musical performances by bands, streets art, flash mob and German masterclass, among others.
 
 The first two Happy Streets in Patna were organized at south Gandhi Maidan, while the third one was held at the S K Puri Park Road. Patna police have also played a pivotal role in making the event a success by providing security and involving the audience with the police band and dog squad, among other activities.
 
 “Patna has never seen an event like TOI’s Happy Streets. Apart from spreading the message of pollution control and making the roads vehicles-free, Happy Streets is also developing a new culture of voluntary community activity in the city aimed at spreading joy and happiness,” said Sameeksha, who has participated in the last two editions of the Happy Streets.
 
 
