VISAKHAPATNAM: Way before  , the movie, not the original historical figure, made a splash on Telugu screen, I had set my heart on meeting Devanampiya Ashoka Rayo. Little did I know that it was a Satakarni, of the historical lineage, that is, who was responsible for commissioning a life-size sculptural depiction of the emperor, and also writing his name under it, so that there is no ambiguity to his identity. Let me explain.

 It happened thus. The place of action was a sleepy little village called Sannathi, in Karnataka, located on the banks of River Bhima, a tributary of Tungabhadra. When the local Chandrala Parameshwari temple was dismantled for renovation, a large sized stone slab, with a strange scribbling on both sides of the slab, came to light. A square hole was made on this pinkish granite slab to fit the base of the deity snugly. A local devotee of the goddess noticed the Brahmi script on the slab and informed the authorities, who straight away identified the inscription as that of Ashoka. Spurred by the discovery of the inscription, officials of the Archaeological Survey of India not only secured the inscription but also explored the neighbourhood for other antiquities. Thus came to light the almost intact stupa of the Satavahanas at the village of Sannathi. 
 
 A word about the Ashokan inscription. The Sannathi Edict of Ashoka was just one of the nine such royal edicts that were discovered in north Karnataka. It is a known fact that Ashoka spread his message of peace and dharma through his royal edicts. At a time when communications were rudimentary he spread his royal dictates to his people through rock and pillar edicts. Those edicts were generally located where a large number of people assembled, like at pilgrim centres, market places and/or busy trade routes. He appointed special readers so that his messages could be conveyed to the people. Now, to the Sannathi stupa. What is special about it? It’s this. Unlike our very own Amaravati stupa, whose sculptural friezes were pulverised by a local zamindar to build his palace, most parts of the Sannathi stupa were intact, albeit buried under millennia of debris and mud. The original stupa built by Ashoka was there to see too. More interestingly, the later Satavahana’s enlargement and beautification of the stupa, with exquisite sculptural friezes depicting scenes from the Jataka stories, survived in a relatively good condition. That’s not all. For the first time in the country’s art history, a life size sculptural depiction of Emperor Ashoka, with his name written under it as “Rayo Ashoka,” revealed itself. That was a momentous discovery and sent ripples across the community of scholars of Indian history. Now, at whose instance was that sculpture carved? Hold your breath. Gautamiputra Satakarni, if my informant is correct. The Satavahanas were ardent admirers of the celebrated Mauryan Emperor. They fashioned their rule, their policies and personalities after their idol. Even though they were Hindus, most of their women not only patronised Buddhism but also showed great reverence to the faith. It was because of that admiration that the Satavahanas honoured and celebrated the memory of Ashoka. 
 
 We of north coastal Andhra have a tantalising connection to the legendary ruler. In the ancient Buddhist monastery of Salihundam, situated on the banks of the  , in the district of Srikakulam, is an inscription, which reads “Dharmarano Ashoka.” The label inscription is to be found on a stone, on the footpath leading to the main stupa. Epigraphically, the inscription is dated to the first/second centuries AD. It is believed that the memory of King Ashoka was kept alive at Salihundam too by the same Satavahanas rulers. 
 
 More direct is Ashoka’s connection with Amaravati, another Satavahana stronghold. A fragment of what looks like an Ashokan inscription has been found in Amaravati, and is presently on display in the museum in the town. 
 
 It was to set eyes on the author of all those edicts, Rayo Ashoka, that a few of us set out to Karnataka. We were an odd bunch of people. A medical doctor turned geneticist, an American archaeologist-cum-Arabic scholar and, yours truly, a Buddhist history enthusiast. Our aim was to meet Ashoka, his image, that is, and check out the nine Ashokan edicts bunched together within a radius of some 300 kilometers in north Karnataka. The trip had taken months to plan and proved to be a logistical challenge. For, the edicts were located in obscure little villages and their locations were ill marked. For some strange reason, the Karnataka government did all it could to shroud their locations in secrecy. Any other state government, which had such a wealth of heritage within its boundaries would have announced their presence from the rooftops, would have clearly marked out the route to be taken to view all of them and, would have flooded the airports and the rail/bus stations with colourful pamphlets giving the history of the edicts and of Ashoka to attract tourists. It is such bold moves that those edicts deserve. But not so Karnataka. Were it not for our techno savvy archaeologist friend, who came equipped with geo positions of all the edicts, ours would have been a wild goose chase. We traversed the narrow, bumpy country roads, walked across the fields, trudged up hills and perilous rocks, and very often drove around in loops, trying to locate the edicts from the middle of a veritable jungle of identical boulders. A daunting task. It was more by perseverance and sheer good luck and less by well marked directions that we finally succeeded in locating all the nine of them.
 
 Now the questions that beg answers is, out of the 35 rock edicts spread over the length and the breadth of India and Pakistan, why are nine of them bunched together within a radius of 300 kilometres, in north Karnataka and two more in the adjoining Andhra, making a total number of eleven? The answer is, for one thing, Karnataka was a border state for the Mauryan Empire. At Brahmgiri, of Chitradurga district, Ashoka refers to ‘borderers,’ who, he hopes, will follow the path of Buddhism. So the assumption is that Brahmagiri perhaps marked the southern border of the Mauryan Empire. So, perhaps it was his desire to spread his message across the frontier of his kingdom that explains the presence of so many edicts. The second reason could be more of an economic expediency. Karnataka was, as it is today, rich in minerals. While the Hutti and Kolar mines were rich in gold, Bellary has abundant iron deposits. Vajrakarur, as the very name indicates, was a diamond centre. The region was prosperous, populous and hence sought after by the Mauryas. Ashoka was not one to pass up an opportunity to place his edicts in front of such a thickly populated region!
 
 My encounter with Ashoka was exhilarating. There he stood, flanked by his wives, and the royal insignia of chatri and chamar. Ashoka’s reign of thirty eight years was the brightest interlude in the troubled history of mankind. When celebrated historical figures like Alexander and Julius Caesar who lived before and after him reveled in bloody warfare and imperialistic activities, Ashoka shines as the only ruler in the world to establish a welfare state. He spread the message of peace and religious harmony in his empire. He exhorted his officials, people and the priests of all religions, to practice religious tolerance and, not to create dissension in the society. He advocated secularism of the purest form. No wonder he continues to excite respect, reverence and admiration. Even though we celebrate his memory by placing his dharmachakra on our national flag, and made his lion capital of Sarnath as our national emblem, do we at all follow his message of religious tolerance? He, was far in advance of his age and we, far behind. He would have been a misfit in the modern times.
 
 (The writer is a heritage and environmental activist. She can be reached at ranisarma2010@gmail.com)
 
 
