HYDERABAD: The   on Friday acquitted Pidathala  , who was convicted by the Vijayawada sessions court in the 2007 sensational   case, and awarded Rs 1 lakh compensation for the trauma he had endured while languishing in the Rajahmundry Central Jail for nearly eight years.

 The court also observed that   Babu was made a scapegoat in the case. 
 
 Ayesha Meera, a pharmacy student, was raped and murdered on December 26, 2007 in her hostel near Vijayawada. Police arrested Satyam on August 16, 2008, and a special women's court in Vijayawada pronounced Satyam guilty on September 29, 2010 and awarded him life sentence.
 
 A bench of Justice CV Nagarjuna Reddy and Justice MSK Jaiswal, which heard the appeal of Satyam's lawyers, on Friday set aside the trial court judgment and directed the authorities to release him from the jail forthwith. It also directed the AP government to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the errant investigation officers for implicating Satyam in the case.
 
 Brushing aside the contentions of public prosecutor Posani Venkateswarlu, who told the court that the investigators had done a scientific job to prove the charges against Satyam, the bench came down strongly on the prosecution, police and forensic officials for doing an unscientific job at every stage and held them responsible for gross injustice and miscarriage of justice. “Even the mother of the victim was not willing to accept the theories of the police officials,“ the bench pointed out. She expressed doubts on Satyam Babu's involvement and the court had permitted the cops to get a   conducted on him, but the police had failed to get it done, the bench explained. Stating that this was a case of murder and not of rape and murder, the bench said the trial court had failed to look into crucial aspects. The bench, however, said the evidence before it was not sufficient to prove the allegations that the real culprit belonged to a politically influential family and the cops were trying to protect him. Making it clear that the court has no jurisdiction to order adequate compensation, the bench said that Satyam's family is free to sue the state for more compensation because he was made a scapegoat.
 
 Vasudha Nagaraj, counsel who assisted senior counsel, the late Bojja Tarakam, and another senior counsel V Pattabhi told TOI that the judgment reinforces the common man's faith in the judiciary. Pattabhi, during his arguments, told the court that he was appearing for three persons. “I am appearing for Satyam Babu. Police created a false crime scene and implicated him to protect the real culprits. I am also appearing for Ayesha because justice can be done to her only when the real culprits are punished. And thirdly, I am appearing for justice as well because it was also murdered in this case,“ he said. Terming the compensation of Rs1 lakh too less,   general secretary VS Krishna said in a statement that judiciary must wake up to this problem of implicating innocent people.
 
