Despite sporadic showers and cool breeze on Saturday and Sunday in the city, there’s no respite from the sweltering temperature. While the heat waves continue to batter Nagpur, the forecast indicates that mercury will soar even further this month. But the weather couldn’t play a spoilsport, as Nagpur youngsters cool off near the lakes in the city and also enjoy various activities there. Let’s delve deeper into this summertime lake rendezvous...

 We begin our journey from Nagpur’s answer to   —   Lake— which needs no special introduction. While one can gorge on mouth-watering street food starting from chaat, bhel puri and Chinese, nothing beats the heat better than a kulfi that can be enjoyed sitting on the edge of the lake while beholding a perfect view of the sunset. A regular at the Futala Lake, Monalika Sen says, “After examination, my friends and I come here for an hour at least to hangout and relax. The place has superb energy and one doesn’t feel drowsy here. And of course, customary selfie with friends is a must here.”
 
 If you are worried that in summers you can’t enjoy outdoor activities during daytime, the   is an answer to all such woes. Surrounded by green cover of forest and a nature trail, the lake beckons visitors who enjoy hanging out in nature’s womb. A youngster Ritesh Bakshi who visits here every morning, says, “The best part of visiting Gorewada Lake is the fact that the temperature is lower than what it is in the city side, thanks to the dense forest. One can enjoy a relaxing time here in the serenity and also catch a glimpse of birds and animals at the shore. Also, people enjoy swimming here, which is an added benefit. So, this place is high on adventure on summers.”
 
 As we head towards the city side, Gandhi Sagar Lake, commonly known as  , is another popular hotspot for the youngsters, this summer. The lake is unique in a sense that it has a garden in between, surrounded by huge palm trees which make it so picturesque. Right at the entrance, where the cement road is being constructed, there are kiosks of paani puri, ice gollas and paan kulfi to soothe your senses in this harsh weather. The lake is very popular with joggers who flock here morning and evening. Also the sunsets from the garden is simply divine.
 If you think the lake saga is over by now, there’s more in store. In close vicinity to VNIT, Ambazari Lake welcomes many youngsters who chill, eat and click plenty of selfies near the Swami Vivekananda statue overlooking this spectacular lake. Unlike Futala and Shukrawari Lakes, here one can sit near the shore and enjoy a beautiful view along with savouring chana jor garam and chaat here.
 
