Mumbai: The   Group on Tuesday announced its academic partnership with one of India’s top-10 ranked management schools,   ( ), for a programme in strategic media & entertainment management (PSMEM). The programme will be delivered through Times Centre for Learning ( ) in a blended mode.

 This is India’s first focused programme for working executives and comes as a very valuable input to the fast changing and growing media and entertainment industry. With this programme, working professionals (who will not have to take a year off) will not only get a good grounding of the fundamentals of management but also gain insights that can help build a rewarding career in media & entertainment.
 
 Conceived after analysing existing skill-gaps, and the growing demand for managerial talent, the programme aims to aid professionals to tackle the unique challenges facing the industry. Designed to benefit the industry at large, it will involve important industry leaders to provide necessary oversight and perspectives to guide its design and roll-out.
 
 Speaking about the association, Dr Ranjan Banerjee, dean at SPJIMR, said, “India is at a very opportune moment today, where media and entertainment are growing to become substantial businesses, with career opportunities for executives and opportunities for entrepreneurs. This collaboration with TCLL brings together our experience in business and management studies, with the Times Group’s expertise in media and entertainment. Together, we will meet the need of this sector for high quality, well trained professional managers.” 
 
 SPJIMR is counted among the top 10 management schools in the country. SPJIMR will bring its expertise into the formation of course content and would help evaluate students throughout the programme. The course will be run by TCLL with SPJIMR as the knowledge partner and will be offered through a blended mix of campus/classroom and online learning. The rigorous programme consists of two-week on-campus immersion modules, 20 key courses covering all aspects of management and media/entertainment, creativity workshops, career-orientated projects and thought leader lectures, apart from classroom sessions and guest lectures.
 
 Speaking about the strategic partnership, Anish Srikrishna, president, TCLL, said, “Media and entertainment is a vibrant industry that reaches out to millions of people, and impacts them in a big way. At the same time, it is a challenging, fast-paced industry to be in, and one has to be well equipped to be able to face future challenges. This programme partnership with SPJIMR offers aspirants the opportunity to prepare to be part of this high-profile sector. Besides ensuring an enabling learning environment and best-in-class pedagogy, TCLL will offer aspirants the necessary support to build a career in media and entertainment.”
 
 Guided by high-profile advisory and academic councils, the curriculum is a judicious mix of media/entertainment topics and management components. Designed by industry veterans and seasoned academicians, the course runs through a period of 11 months. The programme coverage would include, inter alia, the business drivers of music, film, print and digital media and entertainment formats. The participants will attend classes at TCLL’s state-of-the-art remote learning centres in Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru, along with interventions at the SPJIMR campus. 
 
 For more information, please click
  or Call 18001022321.
 
 
