Once upon a time, on Saraswati Puja, it was a rendezvous at the bus stop. Your crush walked up and eyes met. The next date ' a movie together, or coffee at a small restaurant ' was fixed. Nothing much has changed since then. Except dreamy glances have made way for lovey-dovey emojis on WhatsApp. But Saraswati Puja still remains the perfect day for Bengalis to bask in the flavour of spring ' relationship status no bar. With Saraswati Puja tomorrow, our stars get reminiscing. Read on...

 
 
 I was quite shy as a kid. We used to host a soiree of sorts at our place on Saraswati Puja and all our para friends would attend it. There was this pretty girl who used to like me but I never pursued it owing to my nature. I was quite intimated by her, to say the least! It was on one Saraswati Puja that she decided to profess her love to me through a romantic Rabindrasangeet. She locked her eyes with mine and sang Sokhi bhabona kahare bole in a room full of people. I was left red-faced and didn't know where to hide!
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 I have bitter-sweet memories of Saraswati Puja. This one time I went to a girls' school near my place to distribute prasad and was misled to a dilapidated building. When I came back, I was greeted by giggly girls who had pulled a prank on me! I also remember an influential man staying in our locality, whose daughter was a sight for sore eyes. Every year I'd go to distribute sweets and ask for a glass of water hoping she'd turn up with it. She never did ' but their housekeeper sure did!
 
 
 
  
  
 
 I was in a boy's school and hence, meeting and greeting girls were limited only to tuition classes. There was this girl at my tuition centre that I had a major crush on. She too was interested. On Saraswati Puja, when I was distributing prasad, I held her hand only to not let it go for few seconds. It was hilarious because everyone was wondering what was taking me so long. I received my first love letter on Saraswati Puja itself and it was too romantic!
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 We are seven sisters and all my siblings are rather good looking. Every year, post the puja at home, we would go out with at least 10-12 boys following us, hoping to strike a conversation. The craziest part of Saraswati Puja was that guys from the adjacent boys' school would come over many times to hand us over pujor prasad. Imagine the same boy coming in with a plateful of khichuri three times!
 
  
  
 
 
 
 My childhood was spent in Bombay where Saraswati Puja wasn't celebrated with as much fervour as it was in  . I used to attend Puja at a friend's complex. Back then, every girl I laid my eyes on, looked ethereal ' either like   or Madhuri! I had a huge crush on a girl who even passed me her number, ever so discreetly, on a napkin!
 
 
 
 On Saraswati Puja, I would step out only with an entourage ' my brother and his friends following me. Although boys would want to speak to me, their chances were pretty slim. It was quite a sight as they'd line up near the puja pandal and disperse as I leave! Back then, my brother would turn any guy approaching me into my rakhi brother!
 
 
  
  
 
 
