Srikakulam: In a bid to make Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts drought-free, the state government is planning to link a number of rivers by the end of June. 

 Officials have proposed to undertake two projects to link Vamsadhara and Nagavali rivers and Vegavathi-Champavati-Suvarnamukhi and Nagavali rivers at an estimated cost of Rs 102 crore. The proposals are awaiting administrative sanctions. 
 
 According to sources, the existing high level canal of 33 km would be extended between Hirmandal Reservoir on Vamsadhara river and Narayanapur barrage on Nagavali river. The project will be taken up at an estimated cost of Rs 84 crore and will enhance the canal capacity from 130 cusecs to 600 cusecs. For this, the government will need to acquire 200 acres land. As Vamasadhara river has abundant waterflow throughout the year, the linkage will aid farmers along Nagavali river by providing irrigation water across 18,530 acres during the deficit rainfall period between September and October. 
 
 The second project would link rivers Nagavali with Suvarnamukhi–Vegavathi and Champavati at an estimated cost of Rs 18 crore. There would be three links in the project on the Thotapalli main canal of 117 km to the tailend at Gadigedda Reservoir. The first link of around 600 meters would be at the 17th kilometer of the main canal, upstream of Madduvalasa project on Suvaranamukhi river. The second linkage of 1.5 km would be at 37th kilometer of Thotapalli main canal on  . The third link would be at   at the tail end of the Thotapalli main canal. As part of the project, the government would increase the capacity of the Gadigedda reservoir from .12 TMC (thousand million cu.ft) to .25 TMC and link it to the Champavati river through a canal. 
 
 “With these river linkage projects, the government is trying to meet irrigation and drinking water needs of the people of these two north coastal districts. We wish to complete these projects by the end of June,” irrigation minister   told TOI. 
 
 Apart from this, the state government is planning to construct a 96 km high level canal at the downstream of the Vamsadhara river from Gotta Barrage in Hiramandal to supply water to Kaviti, Kanchili, Mandasa, Sompeta and Icchapuram areas. At present, irrigated water is provided to 6.78 lakh acres in Srikakulam and 4.32 lakh acres in Vizianagaram. 
 
