COIMBATORE: On the night of October 19, Karthik Chowdury‘s family, living in   in Coimbatore, received a call from him. The 25-year-old sailor on board a merchant vessel sailing off the Canadian coast spoke to his mother for a little more than a minute before disconnecting the call. That was the last the family heard his voice.

 The next day, they received a message from Karthik’s employers that he was missing from the sailing ship. “We were told that he could have committed suicide. But there was no way he would do that, because he never sounded like a person who was dejected to commit suicide when he spoke to us,’’ said R Meenakshi, 30, his sister.
 
 The family has since been running from pillar to post trying to trace the whereabouts of the young sailor. Meenakshi, along with their father  , had lodged a missing complaint with police, petitioned external affairs minister   and have also tweeted her. ``But we couldn’t get a convincing answer from anybody so far,’’ said Meenakshi who had submitted a petition to the district collector on Monday seeking he take up the issue with the state government. The family strongly believes that Karthik Chowdhury is still alive.
 
 Karthik Chowdhury had been a third officer on ships operated by   in Mumbai. He had been sailing for the past seven years. “He used to regularly speak to us while sailing,” said Meenakshi.
 
 On October 19, after speaking to his mother, Karthik had also whatsapped Meenakshi around 11pm asking after her well-being. ``It is hard to believe that he would commit suicide, as the company now says,’’ said Meenakshi.
 
 “Two company representatives who visited our house said he was dejected due to a failed love affair and hence he may have jumped into the sea. But we spoke to the girl. She denies that they had broken up. In fact, they were actually discussing marriage plans,” she said.
 
 “However, the company did not show us any proof of them trying to search for my brother or conducting a rescue operation. On a ship with 22 people in the middle of the sea, where can he go missing?” said Meenakshi. The family has urged the external affairs ministry to take steps to trace the sailor.
 
