Don’t let on, but the culprits who make the city a stinking cesspit could be excused a snigger at the state government’s move to increase fines for letting   into storm water drains.

 The availability of several illegal options to dump sewage and a staff shortage crisis at   threatens to undermine the move to impose penalties on offenders responsible for directing waste into the storm water drain network, roads and the cities rivers and lakes.
 
 Municipal administration and water supply minister S P Velumani on Monday introduced a bill to amend penal provisions in Schedule VII of the   Act, 1919, for offences under Section 191 (making connections with municipal cables, wires, pipes or drains without permission) and Section 202, Subsection 5 (allowing filth to flow on streets) of the Act. The state raised the penalties from between Rs 20 and Rs 200 to between Rs 5,000 and Rs 2 lakh.
 
 The intentions are right. But one of the biggest challenges to the problem lies with Metrowater itself — or the utility’s inadequate sewage treatment facilities. Metrowater’s treatment plants have a capacity of 550 million litres per day (mld), much less than the city’s sewage generation of more than 2,000MLD. Also, insufficient infrastructure is another major reason for the release of sewage into the Adyar and Cooum.
 
 Metrowater officials said, additionally, countering violators will be tough due to a staff shortage. And there is currently no certainty about the grade of officials who will have the authority to penalise offenders. Engineers said Metrowater has in the past slapped notices on violators but they have been no deterrent.
 
 “There is very little follow-up action after a notice is issued,” an official said.
 
 Restaurants and multi-storey commercial establishments are prominent repeat violators. “The problem is huge in the extended areas where the department is yet to provide sewerage connections,” an official said. “It is easier in these areas for violators to puncture corporation-maintained storm water drains and let sewage into them.”
 
 As the bill only specifies punishment for above-ground sewage overflow, letting it drain out with rainwater could go unpunished. A corporation official said such loopholes only complicate the utility’s task to desilt storm water drains.
 
 “If more violators divert sewage into storm water drains, silt deposits will rise rapidly,” a corporation official said.
 
 Another illegality that could crop up is the banned practice of manual scavenging. The city recorded more than 10 deaths from manual scavenging in 2016, but residences and commercial establishments will employ manual cleaners to avoid penalties.
 
 T Nagar resident V S Jayaraman, who has had to battle repeated instances of sewage overflowing onto streets, said Metrowater should have a mechanism to automatically detect such instances.
 
 “Heavy fines are no deterrent to big commercial establishments. In fact, this provides more space for negotiation between corrupt officials and offenders. Instead of paying Rs 2 lakh, a bribe of Rs 50,000 to an official could keep the issue off record,” he said.
 
 (with inputs from Abdullah Nurullah)
 
 
