Pune: With e-mutation entries of 991 villages in   division yet to be corrected, the deadline for the proposed online   entries’ project in the state has been pushed further.

 While the state had earlier set a deadline for July 31, officials said that they would complete the public reading and correction of records by August 15. 
 
 For some villages, the correction may extend up to September, which will further delay the ambitious digitization process of land records in the state.
 
 The e-mutation process is expected to provide relief to the common man applying for mutation and getting his record of rights updated. 
 
 Currently, people have to wait till the notice to this effect is issued by the talathi first to them and then to the village.
 
 While the public reading of records and correction in the state’s six revenue divisions — Amravati, Aurangabad, Konkan, Nagpur, Nashik and Pune — averaged 90%, the delay in correction of e-mutation entries, specifically in Pune and Konkan division, has been a setback for the project, officials aware of the matter states.
 
 While Pune division averages at 85%, it is 60% in Konkan division. 
 
 In Pune division, correction of entries are to be done for 338 villages in Pune and 341 villages in Satara district while correction has to be undertaken in 2,500 villages under Konkan division. 
 
 Out of them, there are 1,334 villages in Ratnagiri and 557 villages in Sindhudurg, besides others.
 
 State settlement commissioner and director of land records S. Chockolingam told TOI that they are stressing on foolproof mutation entry for which the public reading of records is mandatory and it has to be corrected in consultation with the house owner. 
 
 “There is some delay but we are insisting on a clean title and though the work of reading out has been completed in major parts of the state, considering the large entries in Pune and Konkan area, there has been a delay. We would complete this process by August 15 and maximum by the month of September,’’ he told TOI.
 
 At the revenue conference held in the city in June, chief minister Devendra Fadnavis had taken up the issue of online mutation records project and urged officials to complete the process at the earliest. 
 
 The digitisation of land records programme comes under the modernisation of land records management system under the National Land Records Modernisation programme, which is being implemented in the country from 2008.
 
 With the land records being managed by the revenue department and the property registration being carried out by the registration department, the programme proposes to computerise sub registrar offices and the land record office and integrate registration and land records maintenance system.
 
 This will generating automatic mutation registration and help in keeping land records up-to-date.
 
 
