NAGPUR/WARDHA: The two-month-long exercise to monitor the problem tigress of Bor Tiger Reserve went down the drain after it killed a farmer on Tuesday evening at Wadala ( ) village in Ashti range of  .

 The radio-collared tigress mauled Bhivaji Harle (58) who was returning home from his farm with bullocks. The incident flared tension in the area on Wednesday when angry villagers set a forest department vehicle on fire after officials failed to give a written assurance to either capture or shoot the tigress.
 
 Principal chief conservator of forests ( ) AK Misra told TOI that he feels it is “an accident”. “The tigress must have been stalking the cattle and Harle got targeted by mistake. Since July 29 when it was released, it has not harmed any human.”
 
 However, the forest department now plans to recapture it. “We will bring it back to   rescue centre and may hand it over to any zoo,” said Mishra. 
 
 The Bor tigress had earlier mauled two villagers and injured four in Brahmapuri from where it was captured. Based on the decision of a state-level committee, the PCCF released it in Bor Tiger Reserve’s Navargaon area. The tigress tried to settle down but other tigers pushed her out.
 
 “During her 100km journey in over 50 days, not a single human was harmed or stalked. We will have to go into the details of the incident,” said APCCF (wildlife) Dr N Rambabu who also headed the committee on tigress release.
 
 Misra said the tigress was in the area for seven days and people knew about her presence. The incident occurred 3km away from the village and the spot falls between the forest and village.
 
 Dattu Parteki, a villager of Pandurna and a member of the forest protection committee, said, “We are already fed up with the menace of wild animals. The incident has created panic among villagers. This is farming season and villagers are bound to move into their farms. Forest officials should have forced the tigress into the forest.”
 
 The forest department will release Rs8 lakh to the kin of the victim as compensation. Police is monitoring the situation which has been brought under control.
 
 
