CHENNAI: When the Cholamandal Artists' Village celebrated the 50th year of its inception on Monday, it also marked the success of a great  . It was in the late 1950s that a group of artists from four southern states of India joined hands to form what is now called the Madras movement in contemporary art. 

 'A large number of artists settled as residents of the village founded in 1966 on the outskirts of Chennai. 
 
 Guided by veteran artist KCS Paniker in the 1960s and early 1970s, artists came up with a remarkable output of their creative expression. "In 2009, a representative collection of paintings and sculptures of the Madras movement was housed in the KCS Paniker   at the village. We maintain it well. We have come up with a brochure on the art collection of the museum. The idea was to create awareness about the movement and also about the village. Many are not aware of our great art history," said M Senathipathi, a senior artist and president of the Cholamandal Artists' Village.
 
 Paniker, who was the first principal of the Cholamandal Artists' Village, was a man of experiments, according to Senathipathi. "He tried many styles, traditional as well as western, to explore the possibilities in art. Colours attained new forms and meanings as artists coordinated with one another to unite under one umbrella," he said.
 
 Achim Fabig, consul general of Germany, released the first copy of the brochure while musician T M Krishna received it. 
 
 "The Madras movement is very popular even outside India. Many art schools in Germany have a record of this movement. They even have a collection of works that the artists belonging to the movement created decades ago," he said.
 
 But unfortunately, the Cholamandal Artists' Village has not received any funding from the government apart from a small grant that it is entitled to, like any other art organisation in the county, said Senathipathi. 
 
 "The village has no support from art bodies like the Lalit Kala Akademi. The land where the artists set up their village was purchased with their own money. They built everything, houses, studios, gallery, theatre on their own, which is remarkable," he said. An exhibition of the paintings of artists of the Madras movement will be on till March 20.
 
 
