MUMBAI: If   had stepped onto the artificial turf at the   on Saturday with any hope of finishing what's been an abysmal season on some sort of high, that hope was comprehensively crushed by  .

 Never mind a consolation win,  's side weren't even granted a consolation goal as they were outclassed 4-0 on an evening where they fell way short of proving they are better than their 'relegated' status would suggest.
 
 Bikash Jairu's close range finish following a well-worked move set the visitors on their way. Trinidadian forward Willis Deon Plaza doubled East Bengal's tally with a fiercely struck right-footer minutes before the break. It went from bad to worse in the second half for the hosts as Haitian midfielder Wedson   got on the scoresheet in the 62nd minute before Plaza grabbed his second of the game with a strike from distance six minutes later.
 
 At his pre-match press briefing on Saturday, coach Oscar Bruzon was lamenting over the season finishing at a time when he believed his team had begun to show signs of improvement.
 
 Seven minutes into the match, you wonder if the Spaniard was having second thoughts over harbouring such a notion. Rowllin Borges charged down the flank and sent in a low cross which Plaza failed to meet. The ball, however, rolled across perfectly for Jairu who slammed it past goalkeeper Laxmikant Kattimani. Mumbai's first genuine chance came in the 32nd minute when Victorino Fernandes was perfectly placed to meet  's excellent cross into the box from the left flank. Unfortunately for the hosts, who were left to endure another miserable evening, the forward failed to direct his header on target.
 
 Losing captain Robert Lalthlamuana to injury just before the half-hour mark didn't deter East Bengal as Plaza, finding a bit of room around the right edge of the box, unleashed a powerful strike that brushed Kattimani's hands before crashing into the right corner of the net.
 
 Mumbai did have chances to get on the scoresheet in the second half, but as Bruzon admitted later, "we could have played another 3,000 minutes and we still would not have scored."
 
 East Bengal had no such problems as Anselme and then Plaza -the main difference between the two teams according to Bruzon -ensured the Kolkata giants head into next month's Federation Cup in fine touch.
 
 The result means Mumbai may well have failed to achieve their last remaining objective of avoiding a bottom-placed finish in the standings as Minerva Punjab need just a point at DSK Shivajians on Sunday to replace Bruzon's side in ninth.
 
