MUMBAI: Former Australian batsman Mike Hussey may have warned Steve Smith's team against sledging   during their four-Test tour to India, but they're unlikely to follow his advice. Raising the ‘temperature’ ahead of the first Test in Pune, which begins on February 23 at Pune, Australian captain Steve Smith on Tuesday called on his players to “go for it“ with the verbal volleys and onfield aggression if “it brings out the best in them.”

 “Each of our individuals play the way they play. If that means people want to get into a battle verbally, if that gets the best out of them, then go for it. It's all about us making sure that as an individual, we're in the right mindset to go out and succeed. If the guys want to get into those kind of battles, then go for it. But in the end, it's about us playing on skill, and making sure that our skills are in the best place for us to succeed in these conditions,” Smith said here on Tuesday.
 
 Clearly, asking the Aussies to not sledge is like asking Manchester United coach Jose Mourinho to keep quiet after a game.
 
 The advent of the IPL, where cricketers from both teams end up playing for the same franchise, has cooled things down since the “Monkeygate” almost forced India's tour to Australia to be called off in early 2008. However, the last series between the two cricketing superpowers, which saw India lose 0-2 Down Under, and the tri-series prior to the 2015 World Cup, did see a fair bit of chit-chat between quite a few players from both sides.
 
 That aggression suits the Aussies was evident by the way Warner performed in that series, but the problem for the visitors is that it suits a feisty character like Kohli too. A nasty duel with left-arm pacer  , who's quit international cricket now, had famously fired the India No 4.
 
 While Australian coach   confessed recently that his team had still not worked out how to stop Kohli, Smith admitted his team had devised a 'game plan' for Kohli. He was reluctant to reveal it though. “Yes, we're trying to form a game plan, but I'm not going to tell you what it is. He's obviously a world-class player, and he's been batting extremely well. India are all batting very well at the moment... So, hopefully we can formulate some game plans to get on top of them,” said Smith.
 
 The other big threat for the Aussies is R Ashwin. The last time when they were here, Ashwin dismantled Aussies with a 29-wicket haul. “All of our batters are going to have game plans to try and counter what Ashwin does,” Smith added.
 
 It would be a tough tour for the Aussies, and judging by the way they've performed in the subcontinent in the last few years - they were thrashed 0-4 to India on their last tour here, were beaten 0-2 by Pakistan in the UAE in 2014 and then blanked 0-3 by Sri Lanka last year - few would give them a chance to do something special.
 
