NEW DELHI: After facing backlash from all quarters, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and   Minister   on Saturday has taken back his comments on the new Khadi Village Industries Commission (KVIC) calendar featuring Prime Minister  .

  "The comment I made on Mahatma Gandhi is my personal opinion, to avoid hurting anyone's sentiments I take it back," Vij tweeted.
  
  Vij's remarks drew flak from the Congress which said that the BJP has always spread hatred, adding that Prime Minister Modi is trying to end Gandhi's memory from India. 
 
  "The BJP is doing what the Britishers have done. Mahatma Gandhi is the soul of India. One can only expect such kind of objectionable and nonsensical statements from the BJP's leaders and ministers," Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala told ANI.
 
  
  Distancing itself from Vij's comment, the BJP said Mahatma Gandhi is an icon, adding that the saffron party condemns the remark. "BJP strongly condemns statement of Anil Vij, it's his personal remark and not party's stand. Mahatma Gandhi is our icon," BJP leader Shrikant Sharma told ANI. 
 
  
  Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar also said, "It is his personal opinion and has nothing to do with the party."
 
  
  “This is very unfortunate. These are unworthy sons of the nation,” Lalu Prasad Yadav, RJD leader told ANI.
 
  
  Amid political uproar over the new Khadi Village Industries Commission (KVIC) calendar featuring Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Vij had said that the former is a bigger brand name than Mahatma Gandhi.
 
  "Since the time when Gandhi's name got associated with Khadi...it could not progress. The day Mahatma Gandhi came on the rupee, its devaluation started. Gradually, he will be removed from the notes also. It's good that Gandhi has been replaced with Modi...Modi is a bigger brand name. After Modi's association with Khadi, there has been 14 percent increase in sale of the products," he said.
 
  
  Meanwhile, Mahatama's great-grandson Tushar Gandhi has expressed displeasure over the way corrupt politicians are using money for 'ill-practices'.
 
 "It'll be good if (Mahatama Gandhi) Bapu is removed from notes," he told ANI.
 
  
  The photo of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the calendar and the diary of KVIC on Friday kicked up a row, with opposition parties slamming the development even as the government and BJP dismissed the controversy as "unnecessary". 
 
 
 
