This fitness discipline has found its way into K’wood, schools for children with special needs, arts and theatre   is a fitness discipline that has found many takers in the city of late. The basic idea of parkour is to reach a certain point from where you are, negotiating all physical obstacles coming your way by jumping, climbing over them, etc. But is that all what parkour is all about? Not really , say parkour professionals.One of the pioneers of parkour, Malik Diouf, who was in the city recently , says that over the years, parkour has evolved a lot from being just a fitness discipline.

 “When I first started practising parkour with my friends during my teens, it was just about physical fitness. And we guys would challenge each other with different stunts. The more we practised, the tougher and complex our stunts would get. The next step was to put together those stunts as a package to entertain people.That was how we first used parkour for a comedy musical, which became the beginning of performance-parkour.“
 
 Malik now says parkour has branched out and is used in different fields, including dance, theatre, etc. He says, “How parkour is used varies from person to person -some incorporate that in art and others consider it a sport.“ Seconding Malik is Alister O'Loughlin, another parkour performer from the UK-based performanceparkour company, Urban Playground. The group, along with the Chennai-based Parkour Circle, is touring Tamil Nadu with their pro duction --­ Indian Steam -a performance-parkour show supported by the Arts Council of  's Reimagine India Fund and the British Council. Alister says, “In the UK, we work with a bunch of pensioners. We use parkour to recover their movements. There's an online group of practitioners who use parkour as a tool to work on mental health issues. There are architects who design things keeping the basic idea of parkour in mind -the basic idea is to negotiate design infrastructure in a way that it encourages people to move more.“ Speaking about the evolution of parkour in Chennai,  , one of the first practitioners of the discipline in the city, and a member of the Parkour Circle, says, “We've been working with theatre groups in Chennai for the last three years. I myself am a part of the theatre group  , and we've have incorporated parkour in our performance of Ponniyin Selvan. This apart, we also work with dancers and help them perfect their jumps. We've also used parkour in a couple of films in Tamil.The first movie in which we used parkour was Mugamoodi (2012). It is also used in the film, Kanithan. Actor Harish Uthaman, who generally plays a baddie in Kollywood films, is one person who has been consistently practicing parkour. In fact, there are many actors who've showed interest in parkour -like Vishal, Jayam Ravi, etc.“
 
 Some of the parkour practitioners in Chennai are also working with specialneeds children. Prabhu says, “We've been working with a few schools for such children for the last few months.And we've realised that with simple parkour movements, their hand-eye cordination is improving, and that it reduces the severity of their condition.“
 
 Another person who has been working in this field, is Kavitha Kripanidhi. “I work with two schools for special-needs kids -one in Chennai and another one in Puducherry . According to studies, muscle movements help in brain movement. With small parkour movements, we see a lot of functional changes in the children. The main worry with such children is that when they are left in unfamiliar environments alone, they are lost. Generally , they've a set pattern for everything and even a slight change in that affects them. So, we are making every effort to help them overcome such fears through our sessions,“ explains Kavitha.
 
 Prabhu also reiterates that a person's fitness level doesn't restrict himher from practising parkour. “The idea that only those with a sculpted figure can perform parkour is just a myth created by internet videos -which shows big jumps, massive movements, and other hard-to-follow stunts. Whatever your fitness level is, you start practising movements and build on that. It isn't a competitive sport. The only idea is to get people moving. Some people get fit and some other don't. Take my case, I've been practising it for the last ten years, but I have hardly lost weight,“ he says laughing. 
 
