Nagpur: Six people, including the daughter of noted activist Seema Sakhare, were killed in separate road   in a span of 24 hours. 

 A seventh death was recorded when a woman who was knocked down on September 4 passed away on Wednesday night. 
 
 The six deaths took place between Wedneday 4.30 pm and Thursday 3 pm.
 
 Jamila Shaikh, 50, who was hit by an unknown biker on September 4 at Kalamna and admitted at the GMCH. Doctors declared her dead on Wednesday night. 
 
 Advocate Suhasini Sakhre, daughter of women’s rights activist Seema, died in a road accident near Pipla Dak Bangla village on Saoner Road . She was heading towards the city when her car rammed into a stationary truck which had stopped after developing a technical snag. 
 
 Senior PI of Khaparkheda police station Ashok Sakharkar said that its a mystery how Suhasini’s car veered as there was sufficident space in the carriageway. 
 
 The police had to tackle an angry mob staging an impromptu protest on Hingna Road disrupting traffic for almost half-an-hour after a truck hit Harshal Lokhande’s scooter from behind leading to serious injury to his wife 34-year-old Vaishali. 
 
 Police had to use mild force and deploy riot control police as the mob was threatening to vandalize a local country liquor shop near Rajiv Nagar bus stop. 
 
 Zonal DCP Smartana Patil, along with staffers from MIDC, Wadi, and Hingna police stations, assured the mob that action would be taken.
 
 Hingna’s BJP MLA Sameer Meghe addressed the protesters at MIDC police station asking them to proteset peacefully at the collector’s office.
 
 Though the local residents and activists blamed the rush at a country liquor shop near the Rajiv Nagar bus stop for causing the accident, police claimed that Harshal has stated that he had to apply brakes due to a pothole on the road.
 
 API Bhaskar Ghorve of MIDC police said the trucker who had hit Harshal’s scooter has been rounded up. 
 
 MIDC police have registered an offence against another unidentified biker after he fled from the spot hitting 52-year-old Pushpa Wakalkar at Neeldoh. Wakalkar was later declared dead. 
 
 In another incident earlier in the day, Kishor Ingole was killed after a truck hit his bike on the Gorewada ring road. The trucker has been arrested by Mankapur police station. Ingole’s wife Rekha is a constable with the city police.
 
 On Wednesday night, 40-year-old biker Sudarshan Chawke was hit on the Ram Jhula bridge by an oncoming tourist bus which led to his death. An offence against the driver was registered at Ganeshpeth police station. 
 
 On Wednesday, 19-year-old scooterist Ashish Choudhari was killed after being hit by an unidentified vehicle, which fled the spot, near Udasa, around 10km from Umrerd. An offence was registered at Umred police station against an unknown driver. 
 
 
