HYDERABAD: Chief minister  , who now operates from the swanky  , his official residence-cum-camp office at Greenlands in the city, is set to get another camp office at his constituency headquarters of Gajwel by this October. However, this new camp office-cumresidence will not be as expansive as the Pragati Bhavan.

 The `Bhoomi Puja' for the Gajwel camp office was held on Friday by government's advisor on Vaastu, Suddala Sudhakar Teja. Interestingly , none of the Chief Minister's Office officials and family members attended Bhoomi Puja.
 
 The state government a few months ago decided to construct camp office-cum-residences at all MLAs constituency headquarters to hold official meetings and also to interact with residents on their grievances. The Roads & Buildings (R&B) department has prepared a uniform model for ground and one floor buildings at an estimated cost of `1 crore.
 
 The new facility , to be built by the R&B, is one of the 119 such camp offices for MLAs to be built in their constituency headquarters. However, since Gajwel MLA also happens to be the chief minister, this particular MLA's camp office is expected to be provided with some additional features including enhanced security .
 
 Official sources said while every one of the 119 MLAs will get camp offices on a plot area of 600 sq yards, the Siddipet district administration has identified 4,000 sq yards on the Mudrajpally Road in Gajwel since the office to be used by the CM, will require additional parking space.
 
 Sudhkar Teja reportedly made some modifications in the plans prepared by R&B to ensure that they are in harmony with the astrological birth chart of chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao. “The camp office-cum-residence of chief minister will be readied by October, 2017,“   (GADA) special officer and joint collector of Siddipet district M   told STOI on Saturday .
 
 Officials said the chief minister has been interacting with officials and his constituents including public representatives, such as sarpanches, MPTC and ZPTC members, at his farm house in Erravelli in his constituency . He also held meetings in Erravelli and Narsannapet villages during his tours. Once the camp office is ready , chief minister Chandrasekhar Rao can hold meetings with about 100 to 150 members at Gajwel, the officials added.
 
