As   from the sitcom Uppum Mulakum, debutante  , who has her roots in Rajasthan, has managed to convincingly charm the Malayali viewers with ease through her cute expressions and feisty nature.
With the sitcom on Flowers TV enjoying a massive fan base, Juhi says she’s enjoying her part and lets us in on why the character is special to her and more…
 
 
 
 
 I became an actress overnight, thanks to my school buddy Ananthakrishnan. When I was in my Class 12, I was cast in the serial as Lechu aka Lekshmi Balachandran Thampi after the serial’s director and Ananthu’s dad, R Unnikrishnan, spotted me at his birthday party. The next day I got a call from Ananthu saying that Unni sir has confirmed me for the role. My friends and relatives were mocking me, saying, “Eldho… ninne cinemayil eduthada”. But for me it was more like, Manasil laddu potti.
 Unni sir just asked me to behave as I am in real. Though we had an introductory session, I was blank on the first day of the shoot. But later, the director gave me the confidence and freedom to take my time and perform without any jitters.
 
 
 
 My role Lechu is more like me in real life. So I don’t have to take much effort to get into the skin of the character. I am a lazy bones and vazhakali (quick-tempered) in real life too like Lechu (laughs). She is however mocked by her family for not taking a bath daily; that’s where we are different.
 
 
 
 Many are still not aware of my connect with Rajasthan. My father was a Rajasthani, who passed away six years ago. I was born there but brought up in Kerala where my mother’s family resides. My family includes my mother and elder brother and I am their Gudiya. We speak Hindi at home and are still in touch with my dad’s family.
 
  After portraying the role, a lot of people including my friends love to call me, Lechu. Whenever I step out with my family or friends, people recognise me and ask where my screen family is. Some of them don’t even want to believe that we are not a family in our real lives.
 
  I noticed the adoration for my character when I met with a road accident few months ago, which resulted in a break for me from the serial. I was surprised when I received lots of social media messages enquiring if I am safe and when will I be back on screen. Some of the fans even visited me at my home.
 
 
 
 As the serial is nearing its 500th episode we have become more like a family now, as we spend more time with each other than with our real-life counterparts. We even refer to each other by our onscreen names after the scenes. Each of us shoulders the responsibility of creating the USP of the show, which is bonding and love for each other. Apart from comic elements, the show conveys the meaning of family and how we should care for each other. I think that element is missing in the present generation which I am also part of. That said I have always come across the feedback — family members often come together to watch Uppum Mulakum on television. I feel happy that our half-hour show has translated to family time for many.
 
 
 
 
 Where is Mudiyan? Yes, this is the latest question that I am hearing in social media and in person. Mudiyan chettan aka Rishi is a dancer by profession. At present he is having some dance programmes and a film so he is not seen in the serial nowadays. But he will be joining the serial soon.
 
 
 
 
 I have completed fashion designing and have thoughts about becoming a designer in future. Also I am planning to join for an Airport Management course. At present, I am busy with Uppum Mulakum and don’t have any plans to do more serials. Lechu has given me an identity and I wish to be known only as her to my telly audience. I have acted in a film titled Soochi and I am awaiting its release. I would love to do more films if I get interesting roles.
 
