BENGALURU: The government is ready for the Goods and   (GST) rollout, chief minister   said on Wednesday . The new tax regime is expected to be effective from July 1.

 “Our government is well prepared for the GST regime.We have trained all our officials and most of the traders in the state have enrolled themselves for the new taxation system. In terms of preparedness, Karnataka is far ahead of other states,“ said Siddaramaiah.
 
 The chief minister was addressing a gathering after inaugurating the centenary building of the Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industries (FKCCI). He also inaugurated a GST helpdesk at the FKCCI office on Kempegowda Road. The helpdesk will function in coordination with the commercial taxes department and address traders' concerns while migrating from VAT to GST.
 
 The chief minister said he was happy that he was the finance minister when the value added tax (VAT) regime was introduced in 2005 and now he is leading the state to new GST tax system. Highlighting his government's pro-industry policies, the chief ministersaid he had set up a separate department for skill development under his direct supervision.
 
 “Stressing the need of skill development, we have established a dedicated department for it. We are aiming at training five lakh youths in skill development this year,“ he said.
 
 Industry minister   expressed concern over the country lagging in terms of job creation despite the Centre's nudge for industrial growth.
 
 “Despite the initiatives such as Make in India, Startup India and  , there has been a negative growth in job creation. Except in states like Karnataka which have recorded slightly positive growth, others have shown negative growth. This is the main cause of concern,“ said Deshpande.
 
 By 2025, India is going to be the youngest country with the highest number of youths in the world and lack of strategy for job creation could be disastrous, he said and urged the industry and business community to work with the government to improve the situation.
 
