SURAT: Demonetization seems to have cast a dark shadow on Surat’s annual international gems and jewellery exhibition. Unlike every year, this time around the number of exhibitors participating in ‘Sparkle-2017’ has been reduced to almost half. Most of the jewellery and diamond companies, which were regularly participating in the show, have backed out this time, believing that impact of demonetization and shortage of new currency in the market won’t generate business for them. 

 The event, which is being held every year in December for four days, has been postponed. Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry ( ), main organizer of the event sponsored by the state government, said the ninth edition of ‘Sparkle-2017’ which was supposed to be held on December 16, will now be organized from January 19 to 22. The exhibition is likely to be inaugurated by chief minister   at Surat International Exhibition and Convention Centre (SIECC) at Sarsana.
 
 However, not many exhibitors from Surat and other places, including Jaipur, are interested due to demonetization’s impact. Exhibition chairman of SGCCI, Praful Shah, told TOI, “Last year, there were over 120 exhibitors at Sparkle. This time around, less than 70 exhibitors have agreed to set up their booths at the show. Companies say that the purchasing power of consumers has been impacted by demonetization. We contacted all the exhibitors who have been regularly participating in the event, but many were not willing.” 
 
 The central government’s decision to scrap Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 currency notes on November 8, 2016 sapped liquidity, hitting cash-focused gem and jewellery companies in particular. Smaller, domestic traders and jewellers are among the hardest hit. 
 
 Even so, organizers of Sparkle are expecting a good turnout. This time around, a special attraction of ‘Somnath Pavilion’ has been added wherein a Mumbai-based company will be displaying the replica of   studded with over 50,000 sparkling diamonds. 
 
 “The business atmosphere is subdued post-demonetization. Most of the jewellery showrooms in Surat are not getting customer footfalls. Even the manufacturing of jewellery has taken a big hit in the last two months. But, we are hopeful that things will change in the coming days as people will get new currency as and when they require” said chairman of SGCCI’s gems and jewellery committee Nainesh Patchigar.
 
 
