CUNCOLIM: When the final point was won and a place in the semifinals secured, a foreign couple walked to the court and shook hands with all   players. The hosts were in such dazzling form as they outwitted South Central Railway, Hyderabad, in straight sets (25-23, 25-23, 25-21) to enter the semifinals of the All-India invitational   tournament at Cuncolim on Thursday.
 
 Like the foreign couple, the rest of the crowd too were mighty impressed, but while volleyball remains a team game, the individual performance of   caught everyone’s eye.
  
 The youngster from Haryana, still only 21 and training at the SAI Hostel played with such maturity that it was hard to believe that he is yet to even make his debut at the Senior Volleyball Nationals. Whether it was in front of the court, or at the back; whether it was his serve, or defence, Rohit was a class act and won plenty of hearts, including those of the foreign couple.
  
 At the start of the tournament, the spectators probably missed a local hero. Rama ‘Pappu’ Dhawaskar is still awaiting permission from the Directorate of Sports and Youth Affairs ( ) – where he is employed as coach – to participate; last year’s superman, A Karthik, is nursing an injury, while India captain S Prabagaran has delayed his arrival. Just when it seemed the defending champions would crash out early, Rohit put his hand up.
  
 Poor South Central Railway had no clue how to stop him, or even the rest of his teammates like Ranbeer Singh, Subham Singh and Sohan Singh. Libero Ashok Kumar gave Cuncolim added advantage.
  
 Having won the first set rather comfortably, Cuncolim Union took it easy in the second as the visitors enjoyed a healthy five-point lead till half-way into the match. The hosts, though, had enough class to fight their way back.
  
 In the third set it was no different as South Central Railway enjoyed the lead at 19-15 only for Rohit to turn the match on its head with five consecutive points, thanks to his powerful serves. At 20-20, it was anybody’s game and Cuncolim Union had the last laugh as they wrapped up the set and match at 25-21.
  Cuncolim Union will now play   in the second semifinal on Friday.
