NEW DELHI: Now,   and   have a date. The card readers got it all correct. The most-awaited match of the Yonex Sunrise Super Series — the final before the final — is all set to take place on Friday at the Siri Fort Complex. The current world No. 5 (Sindhu) and 9 (Saina), with a whole lot of shared history and folklore, will stomp the centre court for the second time in an international event. It happened last at the Syed Modi Grand Prix Gold in 2014 when Saina, the senior pro, came out on top.

 A lot of water has flown under the bridge since then. Sindhu earned her Olympic silver in Rio to usurp Saina's undisputed throne as the nation's premier badminton star. Saina, meanwhile, nursed her injuries and pride. With every point won on Thursday, in the Round of 16 against Japan's Saena Kawakami, Sindhu coiled a punch with her left hand and said, 'yessss.' The girl in a white tunic, India's best-ranked player, gave out a scream once in a while when a cross court hit the tramlines, leaving the opponent wrong-footed.
 
 After a few heart-stopping taps into the net, Sindhu finally wrapped it up 21-16, 23-21.
 
  
  
 
 An hour ago, Saina too had secured her passage to the quarters as P   failed to pose any serious threat. Powerful drives and smashes sent Saina ahead in the race and She finished the game in 33 minutes.
 
 "I know everybody is looking forward to tomorrow's match. So am I," said Sindhu, all bubbly with confidence. "I will give my best and let's hope the best person wins."
 
 Earlier in the evening, another Indian challenger,   was heartily cheered. However, it wasn't enough to break the reigning Olympic champion  's rhythm or composure. The world No. 53, who made the cut by getting the better of   19-21, 21-15, 21-19 on Wednesday, received a harsh lesson from Marin in power and precision and court craft. The difference in class was far too evident even though some of Rituparna's drops bore a lot of promise. Expectedly, Marin made the quarters 21-13, 2111.
 
 Among men, top seed   heaped generous praise on his victim K. Srikanth, who had an unusually bad day in office. Srikanth, a former world No. 3, was actually clueless against the Danish opponent and was trailing 2-11 in the first game. "I failed to judge the length and to be honest, Viktor played exceptionally well,"   said. The Danish third seed commiserated with Srikanth saying that the loss doesn't take away the fact that Srikanth was still a very good opponent. It was a mixed evening for the Verma bothers as elder Sourabh lost a close match 19-21, 21-14, 22-20 against NG Ka Long Angus. Sourabh failed to close the match even after snatching the lead late in the final game. Sameer, however, salvaged family pride by making it to the quarters.
 
