KOLKATA: Paediatric cardiologist Dr   requested his psychiatrist friend Dr Sabyasachi Mitra five years ago to administer electro-convulsive therapy (ECT) on his 65-year-old mother, who had been down with severe depression for six months and not responding to medicines. Within one-and-a-half weeks and four   sessions, she reportedly showed remarkable improvement.

 But very few doctors in Kolkata explore the option to treat major depressive disorders, given the controversy around it though no law bans it. Several doctors may swear by its effectiveness but it is used only for training of medical students in the city. Shock therapy—as it is popularly called—does involve certain risks (see box), but the new Mental Health Bill has allowed ECT to treat adults (not kids) after use of muscle relaxants and anaesthesia.
 
 Mitra, who has carried out 20 ECTs on patients of depression, mania, resistant schizophrenia and suicidal tendencies over nine years of his practice in Kolkata, called it the safest treatment option, especially for the elderly and even pregnant women. “It’s administered only when multiple medications at their highest dose and other augmentation strategies fail or when medications cause side effects,” he said. “A depression patient was brought to me on a stretcher for her first ECT. For the next session, she was well enough to come by herself in a rickshaw.” The side effects of ECT, Mitra said, included headache for two hours and memory loss lasting up to six weeks. “But psychiatrists are unfairly accused by activists of torturing patients. That’s why I stopped doing it to avoid controversies,” Mitra said.
 
 ECT may not be without fears and belief that it is an inhuman procedure, Dr  , who has carried out 100 ECTs at National Medical College, North Bengal Medical College and Institute of Psychiatry, said, “Only one suffered shoulder dislocation. But she recovered from that and was cured of depression.” He supports unmodified ECTs, without muscle relaxants and anaesthesia. “Even Max Sink, the international authority on ECT, recommended straight ECTs for patients in India. But straight ECT, which has zero cost, is not possible under the Bill,” he said.
 
 The minimum cost for one session of modified ECT at a private facility will come to Rs 6,000. At state hospitals, getting anaesthetists for ECT sessions will not be easy. Yet, Mitra hoped the Bill would empower doctors and reassure patients: “More has to be done to highlight its research-proven effectiveness.”
 
 
