AHMEDABAD: PM   inaugurated the   on Monday evening and also held a discussion with nine Nobel laureates at Science City. Modi, in his speech, emphasized the impact of innovations on society's well-being.

 Modi said that earlier there were occasions of Nobel laureates' visits to India and limited interactions with media and scientists. “But, today, we are making history by having a galaxy of Nobel laureates in Gujarat,“ he said, welcoming the laureates.He also mentioned  's Gujarat connections.
 
 “My government has a clear vision of where we want India to be in the next 15 years. Science and technology is the pivot on which that vi sion will translate into strategy and action,“ said the PM.
 
 Addressing 250 students, hand-picked by a nationwide competition, he asked them to take the best of the events and claimed that such interactions would make one employable in a knowledge economy and science-driven entrepreneurship.
 
 “Globally, science and tech nology have emerged as one of the major drivers of socioeconomic development. You will be scientists soon and must not neglect the challenge posed by poverty,“ he said.
 
 He laid out three outcomes from the Nobel Prize Series following students participation and their teachers for capacity building, stimulate local entrepreneurship and impact on society. “Be inspired and be daring, have courage and be your own person and not imitative. That is how our honoured guests succeeded and that is what you should learn from them,“ Modi told students.
 
 Lars Heikensten, executive director,  , spoke about the life and inspirations of Alfed Nobel, whose legacy created the famed prize.“Nobel knew that good role models -people and organizations -can show that it is possible to understand the world and improve it. It is in this spirit that we organize events such as this one,“ he said.
 
 Heikensten mentioned that there are 15 Nobel laureates from India, of Indian origin or who have worked in India.“Persons like Tagore, Raman, Sen and Satyarthi are the role models Nobel was looking for.In the world today, many of his ideals are threatened. Even facts are refuted -climate change is good example of this. Thus, we all have good reason to work on what he believed in,“ he said.
 
 Exhibition open
 
 The Nobel Prize: Ideas Changing World' is open for citizens from January 10 to February 12. Students will be given free entry. The exhibitions contains original artefacts, from   and Nobel laureates. Organizers said the history of 20th century can be viewed through the discoveries honoured with Nobel prizes.
 
