NEW DELHI: AIADMK (Amma) faction leader TTV   not only wanted to bribe the election commission officials to get the "two leaves" symbol but also wanted to get a date of his choice for the R K Nagar byelection, police have said.
According to sources, Delhi police are in possession of the recording of a conversation between TTV Dhinakaran and middleman Sukesh Chandrasekar in this connection. TTV Dhinakaran is purportedly heard telling Sukesh that EC officials should hold the byelection on May 5 as it "suited him". Sukesh later explained to police that '5' was the lucky number for the Sasikala nephew. He was ready to pay around 10 crore to get these favours, a senior police officer said.
 
 On Friday, TTV Dhinakaran refused to give his voice samples to the police for examination, a source said. The police had sought permission from a Delhi court to compare the voice samples of both the accused with the ones heard in the audio recordings seized by them. Sukesh too has refused to give his samples, the officer added.
 
 (With inputs from PTI) TTV Dhinakaran was produced before special judge Poonam Choudhary on production warrant. She marked the case to Metropolitan Magistrate Abhilash Malhotra who recorded the statement of TTV Dhinakaran and forwarded it to the special judge.
 
 When contacted, Delhi po lice's joint commissioner (crime branch) Praveer Ranjan confirmed that TTV Dhinakaran wanted a favourable date.
 
 Meanwhile, Special Judge Choudhary heard arguments on Sukesh's bail application and reserved the order for May 22. The police have opposed the bail plea saying they needed to make more arrests and the allegations against him were grave in nature.
 
 Apart from TTV Dhinakaran, his friend Mallikarjuna and Sukesh, the crime branch has arrested two Hawala operators in the case as well. Apart from one of the operators, the rest are in   jail.
 
 The EC had frozen the AIADMK's symbol after two factions of the party -one led by TTV Dhinakaran's aunt Sasikala and the other by former chief minister   staked a claim to it to contest the RK Nagar bypolls.
 
 The re-election, which was necessitated following the death of then chief minister  , who represented the RK Nagar constituency , was cancelled by the EC after irregularities were reported.
 
