INDORE: Congress leaders along with hundreds of travellers from villages along   staged a   demanding a change in schedules of some local trains from Indore to Mhow as well as those going till Ratlam.

 The protestors demanded that a train connecting Mhow with Indore, whose scheduled timing is 5.20am at Mhow, be rescheduled to 6.25am. They also demanded that the train should be extended till Ratlam for people's convenience.
 
 "We have thousands of people travelling on the route. They face a lot of problems due to the lack of connectivity. We have been demanding this for a long time. People living in nearby villages are affected the most. The railways is not concerned about its passengers," said Tulsi Silawat, Congress leader.
 
 The protesters also demanded more trains on the route and new trains on Fatehabad-Ujjain route. The issue of gauge conversion along the Fatehabad-Ujjain track was also raised.
 
 "If the railways does not start the gauge conversion work immediately, there will be a mass movement," Silawat said.
 
 Officials of railways said that they would look into the demands of protesters.
 
 The gauge conversion along the 21 km Indore-Mhow stretch was opened in June last year. Seven diesel multiple unit (DMU) trains run on the section. According to the schedule, the travel time was enhanced by an hour.
 
 However, continuous delays have created problems. The train is regularly delayed by 15 to 45 minutes.
 
 The timely arrival at Indore railway station is essential for passengers and commuters of Mhow as they have to catch connecting long distance trains, which they miss many times.
 
 Railways officials said that they were working to improve the train schedules.
 
  Indore: Congress leaders along with hundreds of travellers from villages along Indore-Mhow rail line staged a protest at Indore railway station demanding a change in schedules of some local trains from Indore to Mhow as well as those going till Ratlam. 
 
 The protestors demanded that a train connecting Mhow with Indore, whose scheduled timing is 5.20am at Mhow, be rescheduled to 6.25am. They also demanded that the train should be extended till Ratlam for people's convenience. "We have thousands of people travelling on the route. They face a lot of problems due to the lack of connectivity. We have been demanding this for a long time. People living in nearby villages are affected the most. The railways is not concerned about its passengers," said Tulsi Silawat, Congress leader.
 
 Protesters also demanded more trains on the route and new trains on Fatehabad-Ujjain route. The issue of gauge conversion along the Fatehabad-Ujjain track was also raised. "If the railways does not start the gauge conversion work immediately, there will be a mass movement," Silawat said.
 
