NAGPUR: The Supreme Court’s ruling banning use of religion,   to seek votes in elections and the   of such a candidate will have a visible impact on the   elections due in February. Many political parties in the NMC are divided over the apex court’s ruling.

 Speaking to TOI, although political leaders claimed that they never seek votes on the basis of religion, it is evident not just in civic polls but also in assembly polls. Political parties resort to every trick to cash in on their vote bank and making community-specific announcements.
 
 Lawyer and corporator from Muslim dominated Hansapuri ward Sanjay Balpande welcomed the decision and claimed it will definitely set an example of overall development. Balpande said that in the past, many undeserving candidates won the elections merely on the basis of religion and caste. But politics based on such criteria hampers development, he said.
 
 Ruling party leader in the BJP-led NMC Dayashankar Tiwari too hailed the apex court’s decision. “Political parties should stop using religion or caste or creed cards and instead focus on the city’s overall development. The agenda of all parties should centre around only development,” he said.
 
 City Congress president Vikas Thakre too said that voters should not fall into the trap of caste-based politics. In Nagpur, he claimed, caste and religion has very little impact on any elections. “Former MP Vilas Muttemwar got elected to the Lok Sabha for four consecutive terms even though only the city has only 5,000 voters from his caste,” Thakre added.
 
 There are other leaders who said that the SC ruling will definitely have an impact on the civic polls. BSP leader in NMC and senior corporator Gautam Patil explained that voters, particularly in Nagpur, followed three ideologies based on caste and religion. “BJP and Congress use caste or religion to lure voters. BJP voters follow the ideology of MS Golwalkar and Congress plays the Gandhian ideology card, while from from backward classes follow ideology of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar, who preached for a casteless society,” Patil said.
 
 Echoing Patil, National Congress Party corporator Raju Nagulwar said that in Nagpur people prefer voting for candidates from their own caste or religion. Election should be impartial, he said, while welcoming the top court’s decision.
 
 “Religion and individual cannot be separated. This is exploited by politicians to divide people for vote bank politics. It is not just illegal but immoral. Religion-based politics misleads gullible voters. The SC ruling will help curb contestants resorting to such a ploy. The only requirement is non-interference from both ruling and opposition parties in any government,” said Aam Admi Party member Jammu Anand.
 
