HYDERABAD: Expiry dates of medicines were not checked by the  , senior inspectors said on Tuesday, a day after   claimed all medicines were thoroughly checked in the past. 

 On Tuesday, drug inspectors said although they had visited the hospital to collect samples in January, no checks on expiry dates were conducted by them. Inspectors say that their role is to check the quality of drugs and it is the hospital's duty to check expiry dates of each and every medicine or injection before it is administered to patients.
 
 "After Sai Prabhalika was administered a saline bottle containing an insect, samples of saline bottles were picked up from the hospital. After that no further checks were conducted. Drug inspectors do not go about checking expiry dates," said one drug inspector. "Our main purpose is to ensure that no spurious drugs are there in the stores," he said.
 
 Still, Gandhi Hospital authorities maintain that the hospital conducted thorough checks of drugs and medicines before they were used at the facility at various levels. The insist checks were by drug inspectors in January. They rejected the possibility of 'expired' injections kept in stores of the hospital.
 
 On March 25, 10 days after a paralytic patient made a dramatic entry into the hospital on a tricycle after being denied a wheelchair, the hospital allegedly administered 'expired' antibiotics, triggering temporary loss of motor skills and bouts of seizures and vomiting among 12 children. 
 
 Family members said the kids were injected with amoxicillin clavulanate and potassium clavulanate antibiotics from expired vials around 7.30pm on Saturday to treat bacterial infections and fever. Within minutes, they began vomiting and suffering seizures. All the kids are safe now and under senior medical supervision.
 
 Authorities have cried foul over the whole episode of children falling sick after given the expired injections. While blaming the case on 'mischief' on the part of people with 'vested interests', authorities said they would lodge a police complaint. Health minister C   was among those who hinted at a conspiracy. No complaint has been lodged so far, said   police. 
 
 On Tuesday, all senior officials went incommunicado, including director of medical education M Ramani, and superintendent of Gandhi Hospital Dr P Shravan Kumar.
 
