KANPUR: The   in the   in Jajmau mounted to eight with the retrieval of two more mutilated bodies from the debris on Friday. 

 Giving this information, district magistrate (DM) Kaushal Raj Sharma said that a total of 18 injured labourers are undergoing treatment at various hospitals in the city. 
 
 While four bodies were taken out on the first day of the   incident on Wednesday, two bodies were retrieved on Thursday. Two more bodies were taken out on Friday. NDRF commandant (Varanasi division) Alok Kumar Singh said that ‘prima facie, now there is no one trapped under the debris’. 
 
 Meanwhile, the chief metropolitan magistrate will hear the surrender application of   leader Mehtab Alam on Saturday. Alam is alleged to be the owner of the building.   and the district administration have egistered separate cases against Alam, who moved surrender application on Thursday. 
 
 The NDRF said that it had been carrying out a ‘blind rescue operation’ in the absence of the map of the building. The NDRF also stated that ‘all the figures related to the number of the people trapped inside’ appear to be exaggerated as no more survivors or bodies could be traced.
 
 Singh told TOI that they were not provided site map. “Despite that, the NDRF men created a hole to go deep inside the debris to look out for survivors or the bodies. Basic details such as the depth at which the ground floor of the collapsed building was also not provided.”
 
 He added that talks doing rounds that 30 workers are still trapped under the debris are false. The site of the collapsed building is in a sensitive locality. “We could not use all the equipment to carry out the rescue work. Out of 18 shipping hammer drill machines, only two could be put to use. Diamond chain machine could not be used. The use of these machines would have created vibration, causing damage to the buildings adjacent to the site. Now the district administration and the Kanpur Development Authority have to take a further call,” Singh said.
 
 The Army has pulled back and no armymen were noticed at the site. 
 
 The NDRF teams had started wrapping up at the site and the JCB machines stopped working. The paraphernalia and the equipment of NDRF had been loaded on the trucks. Of the five NDRF teams, three which had come from Varanasi have left. Two teams had stayed back. The commandant clarified that the rescue operation was in progress.
 
