PUNE: The members of the government-appointed ‘Shekatkar committee’ have expressed disappointment over   of Defence’s (MoD) decision to implement only 98 out of 188 key recommendations put forth by the  .

 The members said the move will not achieve the “desired results”. Speaking to TOI, Lt Gen DB   (retd), the head of the committee, said, “The government should implement the committee recommendations in totality. If it is done selectively, no useful purpose will be served.”
 
 Shekatkar said the government has ignored some of the key recommendations mainly connected to the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), Controller of Defence Account (CDA), Director General Defence Estates (DGDE) and MoD itself. “The committee had suggested to cut down manpower and to close down 14 DRDO laboratories,” Shekatkar said.
 
 The committee comprised three Lt Gen, Air Marshal, Vice Admiral, Rear Admiral, service officer and official from Finance department of the MoD.
 
 The committee had conducted detailed study of all three forces as well as key defence civilian departments closely related to the forces, including the Cantonment boards. 
 
 A top defence source said, “The change at the helm (resignation of Manohar Parrikar as the defence minister) has gone against the committee broadly.”
 
 Talking about the long-term ramifications, Shekatkar said, “You can’t win the war in 21st century with WWII philosophy, particularly with reference to the current threats posed by Pakistan and China. As a result, it is imperative to reform certain old-fashioned system that has hampered the forces broadly.”
 
 Meanwhile, a section of the top-serving officers of the armed forces said it is important to bring reforms in certain sections of the forces for better functioning. Former Army chief VP Malik had earlier told TOI, “All major armed forces of the world have carried out this kind of exercise and made deep cuts in manpower – the most important and costliest military resource.”
 
 He had said Indian armed forces should resort to this exercise too.
 
 Today, the Indian army is the third largest army in the world with over 38,000 officers and 11.38 lakh soldiers.
 
