From jumping off tall buildings to fighting the fiercest of wars,   had done all the glamourous things an action hero could imagine.

 But he still missed the submarine realm. All that changed with The   Attack, India's first underwater/war-at-sea film. In the film, which is set to hit the screens on February 17, Daggubati plays naval officer Arjun Varma who survived 18 days underwater with his crew during the 1971 India- Pakistan war. The film has several underwater sequences which made diving license a necessity.
 
 'We had some very intricate action scenes which were shot underwater after being choreographed on land. The set of the submarine was made of six-seven compartments which would be immersed in an Olympicsized swimming pool,'   told Mirror.
 
 The trailer of the movie, which was made simultaneously in Telugu and Hindi, has already received great response. It will also be dubbed in Tamil. Rana, who looks perfect as a naval officer, had to undergo a quick training programme to get into shape. 'I was in the middle of   2 when Ghazi was to start. As you know, in Baahubali, I am a bigger and huge person. 'I had to get into shape as a fit naval officer as we could not go overboard. Director Sankalp was very particular about the look he had to get from me,' he said. Sankalp is debuting as director with The Ghazi Attack. He wanted many Hollywood-style action sequences and that was possible because of the team's hard work.
 
 'The movie was to be made into a short film when a friend came across it and we realised there is a story somewhere in it. After a grueling grill of six to seven months, we were able to turn it into a tight script matching the standards of a classic Hollywood movie. It is a period war film set in 1971. Recreating it, with the right facts, was a herculean task. 'From the promos you can see it has an international feel to it. The aesthetics also had to match those times. We have not compromised on anything. For a newcomer, Sankalp has done a terrific job and he gave us a novel perspective,' the Baahubali star said.
 
 The underwater action sequences needed CGI and special effects, which is a field Rana is familiar with having dabbled in it for seven years. 'It is not a commercial film so we couldn't afford to go overboard. 'However, the CGI took 10 months to complete and we took a very safe path to keep it viable but at the same time not compromise on the quality,' Daggubati said. Ghazi has an ensemble cast.
 
 The movie is  's last film. He has a supporting role in the film. 'First of all, the news of Om Puri's death came as a rude shock. 'I still remember that his was the first name that came to our mind when we were considering actors to play the character of a senior officer who later gets into an administrative position. I am blessed to have worked with him in his final days,' the actor said. Others in the cast include Kay Kay Menon, Atul Kulkarni and  . 'The biggest contribution was by Atul who gave a lot more to the project than just acting. We would write, write and write together.
 
 Even if he was not in any particular scene, I would call him, and send him the shots. He was a huge help. 'And what can I say about Kay Kay Menon. He is magnificent. Actors of that caliber give an altogether different life to a character. 'I have worked with Taapsee earlier in Baby and Arambham. I have seen her grow as an actor. 'She has worked in content- driven movies like Naam Shabana and Pink. In Ghazi, she plays the role of a Bangladeshi refugee to perfection.'
 
 For Rana, Ghazi is not just another movie, but a story that every Indian should know. 'It is an important story in our history that needs to be told. Vizag is a city in which I have grown up and there is this rich history associated with it that not many know about. In fact, there is a submarine there and still, people are unaware of the story behind it,' he said.
 
 The actor, who was highly appreciated for his portrayal of a character with shades of grey in Baahubali, is all set to reprise the role of Bhallala Deva in Baahubali 2. 'The sequel is going to be much bigger with much more visual treat and double the amount of drama.
 
 However, the making got a lot more convenient as there was an experience beforehand making a movie of Baahubali's caliber gives one that ease working on a big period film.'
 
 However, it seems Rana has begun to have a special affinity towards period films with a lot more of blast-frompast kind of epic historical movies lined up ahead.
 
 'After Ghazi's release, Baahubali will hit the screens on April 20. Soon after there is a political drama in mid- May and shooting for a period film based on the British era about a soldier's fight is underway. I feel Baahubali opened the door to the genre of period films. There are so many eras and stories in our past that are waiting to be recreated on celluloid as good films,' he said.
 
