BHOPAL: More than 2,000 people including about 800 women and children staged yet another   trisection on Saturday forcing the administration to set a deadline of Monday morning for a decision on permitting   at the road junction. 

 The traffic remained blocked for almost an hour against the proposed liquor shop at the important road junction leading to the airport.
 
 The agitation was called off after RK Lal an   (ADEO) met the protestors and assured them that the department will take all possible steps to ensure the shop is not opened here.
 
 “Instead of sending a competent authority who could have taken a decision on the spot, the excise department sent an ADEO. In case the excise department backtracks from its assurance, we will intensify our agitation,” said Usha Malviya, a resident of Suvidh Vihar.
 
  of Exotica Vilas said, “We will take the issue to logical conclusion. The district administration should not take us lightly.”
 
 Anu Jha of Bellaire apartments said, “We would not allow the liquor shop to come in the vicinity of residential colonies.”
 
 At 5 pm, the women residents of Suvidh Vihar, Colonel’s Corner, Exotica Vilas, Garden Estate and Kabirdham colonies Bellaire apartment, Rishi Villa and Vinayak Nagar, BDA led the sit-in blocking the traffic on the busy road.
 
 Police rushed to the spot accompanying a sub-divisional magistrate Pradeep Sharma. The executive magistrate tried to convince the women to give up the agitation but in vain. Then the excise department officials were called.
 
 Residents expected assistant excise commissioner Alok Khare, would turn up but he sent his subordinate. 
 
 We know by sending a junior officer, the excise department was avoiding the situation. The women here are determined to fight, said Deepanwita Bhattacharya.
 
 The issue was highlighted on Wednesday when the residents first blocked the road junction in protest against the proposed shop and set a deadline to resolve the issue by March 25 or they would agitate again.
 
 A police report prepared by Gandhi Nagar police station supported the women saying the liquor shop would pose a serious threat to institutions around the area and would lead to law and order situation.
 
