MUMBAI: The   plans to go digital with   at fair price shops across the state by March 31. Aadhaar card holders will have to record their thumbprints at biometric machines set up in ration shops to access subsidized grain available under the Food Security Act.

 “The thumbprint recorded under Aadhaar will be linked to the public distribution system (PDS) database,” said state food and civil supplies secretary Mahesh Pathak. “Once the person places his thumb on the biometric reader, it will give information on his entitlement. Once he buys ration, the amount of grain purchased will be deducted from his quota,” he said.
 
 Several states made Aadhaar-linked PDS compulsory last year, in a bid to plug leakages and corruption. Maharashtra will be among the first few states to digitize it after Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Gujarat. The state is in the process of setting up and testing biometric machines at 51,363 fair price shops across its districts through system integrators. The first machine was set up in Pune on January 7. The machines will also be able to seed the Aadhaar card to the PDS network and modify Aadhaar card details. Maharashtra has as many as 7 crore ration card holders under the Food Security Act. They are entitled to 5 kg of ration grain per person per month. This is to be provided at the subsidized rate of Rs 3 per kg of rice and Rs 2 per kg of wheat.
 
 The Ration Kruti Samiti has raised concerns about the exclusion of non-Aadhaar holders. “Those who do not have Aadhaar cards will not have access to benefits under the Food Security Act,” said Taruna Kumbhar from the  . However, officials said Maharashtra’s Aadhaar coverage was among the best in the country. Also, 87% of the card holders under the Food Security Act have got Aadhaar cards seeded to the public distribution network. 
 
 Yet, many feel the government’s focus is on addressing technicalities and not on improving the availability and quality of grain on the public distribution system. “The question is how many people are getting their full quota under the Food Security Act. Even if there is Aadhaar linkage, is there adequate grain in ration shops?” asks Kiran Moghe from the Janwadi Mahila Sanghatana which has been agitating on issues related to the ration distribution system. “Grain is not reaching and the number of fair price shops have reduced,” she added. 
 
 
