MUMBAI:The boards of various   in the Chennai-based Shriram and IDFC group have agreed to pursue a proposal to merge retail lending business of Shriram with IDFC Bank and bring all other financial businesses of the Chennai-group under the bank's holding company IDFC. 

 IDFC, the   lending company, which transformed into a bank in 2015, will benefit from the retail franchise of Shriram. For the Chennai-based group being part of a bank will enable cross-selling several products to their borrowers who run into millions. Senior management of both groups said this would create "a financial conglomerate with a universal bank at its centre that could become India's largest mass retail financial platform."
 
 The merger follows the entry of Ajay   as strategic investor into the Shriram Group in May 2013, which is led by its octogenarian founder R Thyagarajan. IDFC was the created following former   minister  's announcement in his 1996-97 budget to set up a company to lead funds into infrastructure. IDFC converted itself into a bank in October 2015 but it continues to have an overhang of wholesale lending which is going through stress because of the economic environment. Deepak Parekh, founder chairman of IDFC was also part of merger negotiations. 
 
 "It is no backdoor entry into banking. We as a group do not believe in anything backdoor. We will follow whatever RBI says on this," said Ajay Piramal, chairman, Shriram Capital the holding company for truck-financier Shriram Transport Finance and retail-lender Shriram City Union Finance. He added that shareholders of Shriram will get a stake in the holding company IDFC and also in IDFC Bank. 
 
 "Over the years we have grown on the strength of our partnerships. Our partnership with Piramal has given us the strength to go ahead with this merger," said Thyagarajan. According to Parekh the merger benefits IDFC as it needs retail assets. "To set up a branch is extremely difficult. With this merger the bank gets 1000 plus points of presence," said Parekh.
 
 A statement by the two groups said that they have agreed to enter into a confidentiality, exclusivity and standstill agreement to evaluate a potential strategic combination of certain businesses and subsidiaries, affiliates and associate companies of the Shriram Group with the IDFC Group. A host of Shriram Group companies which include the flagship Shriram Transport Finance with a 80,000 crore loan book, the life and non-life insurance companies and asset management company. Shriram City Union Finance which has a 23,000 crore loan book is proposed to be merged with the bank. 
 
 "The valuations are not done. No transaction has been approved by the board. Shareholding, board seats are yet to be discussed. We have only entered into an exclusivity arrangement for 90 days to jointly explore an opportunity for a merger," said Piramal.
 
 "This in many ways is a marriage made in heaven because of the complementarity of our business," said Rajiv Lall, md & ceo, IDFC Bank. He said that while IDFC had a large wholesale book and access to banking products, Shriram had 2000 touch points and a large retail loan book. 
 
 
