MUMBAI: Police from the city and from   are looking for a   who has abducted six children in separate instances and sexually abused at least three, before releasing them. Investigators say the man seen in CCTV grabs at Kandivli—where a seven-year-old boy was abducted—is the same person seen in the CCTV footage at   where a girl was kidnapped and abused. 

 “We have spoken to most of the victims and the modus operandi used is common to all cases,” said an officer from Navi Mumbai crime branch. The accused approaches a child playing alone or in twos. He claims that the child’s family had booked an LPG cylinder which has arrived for delivery and the child should accompany him. He then thrusts a piece of paper close to the child’s face, containing a powder. Sometimes, he asks for help in searching for an address and thrusts the paper before the child. The child starts following him around in a daze. He subsequently releases them at an isolated location after subjecting them to abuse. 
 
 The first case was reported at Kharghar on April 13 where a nine-year-old girl was kidnapped and abused. The second case was reported at   on May 26 where a seven-year-old boy was abducted. “The boy was playing on the 14th floor of the SRA building where we live. He disappeared around 1.15pm,” said his mother. “The accused took him to the edge of a forested area in Charkop but he came to and began to cry. He asked the man why he had taken him away from home and asked to drop him back. The man hit him and held his hand tightly. After a while, he managed to push the accused’s hand away and ran straight into a highrise. He narrated everything to the watchman and sought his help. We were about to approach the police when the watchman called us up. We were relieved to bring our son home within two hours since his disappearance. Navi Mumbai cops visited our home recently and showed CCTV footage of the other incidents to him. He identified the pervert as the same individual who had kidnapped him.”
 
 On June 9, a 10-year-old girl was abducted and abused, again at Kharghar. The accused asked her to hand over her earrings. “The girl said they wouldn’t come off, at which she was threatened. The man said his name was Raj. But in other cases, he has identified himself as Mahesh. We suspect these are all his aliases,” said the crime branch officer. On June 12, a young boy and a girl were abducted from Dindoshi and taken to the terrace of a housing society. But the accused fled. The last case was reported at   on July 9 where a nine-year-old girl was abused. CBD police filed a rape case and booked him under Pocso Act.
 
