UNNAO: Eleven coaches between B2 to B11 and pantry car of Lokmanya Tilak superfast AC special derailed at Unnao railway station on Sunday afternoon. No casualties have been reported neither any passenger suffered injuries. But the accident caused blocking of Down line between Kanpur and Lucknow. The news of the accident must have upset railway officials seriously as it was fourth accident in and around Kanpur in a row in past seven months. The accident had occurred some 25 kms from Kanpur. 

 Here is the 
  number: 0522 -263 5639
 
  
  
 "The incident occurred at around 1.40 pm while Lokmanya Tilak Superfast was passing through platform number three of Unnao railway station. A major tragedy was averted and there was no casualty. Also there was injury to the passengers," said Senior Divisional Commercial Manager of Northern Railway Shivendra Shukla while talking to TOI. 
 
  
  
 The official further said that the alternate arrangements were made for the passengers stranded at Unnao railway station. They were served food, water and snacks and later around 150 passengers were sent to Lucknow in three buses. Two innovation vehicles have also been arranged to send two families back to their home in Lucknow. 
 
  
  
 
 Sensing the gravity of the situation, NDRF team had been sent to the spot. Also UP ATS was roped in to probe the terror angle, if any. However, the railway officials during preliminary findings ruled out sabotage. They stated that it appears to be a technical fault because of which the train skidded off the tracks. However, the train did not turn turtle due to the concrete platform which bore all the load. The passengers also confirmed that the platform with which the train coaches brushed saved it from falling flat on the tracks and their lives got saved. But the passengers were very terrified and they vowed not to prefer train journey anymore. 
 
  
  
 The passengers said that they had heard a loud thud and before they cold understand anything the train halted with several hiccups. 
 
 A battery of senior railway and police officials led by ADG Railways Jai Narayan Singh and IG Railways Abhay Prasad carried out an inspection of the site and collected vital evidences leading to the derailment. A team of sniffer dogs and forensic experts also carried out inspection of the derailed bogies. Railway officials said that it may take some time to clear the downroute. Several trains including Lucknow-New Delhi Sharad Express were also allowed to pass through from the Up track. An accident relief train was requisitioned at the site. 
 
 Due to the derailment of trains, some trains have been diverted or cancelled. 
 
  
  
 
