All of Hyderabad cheered on as city boy,   was adjudged Indian Idol on Sunday night. And what made it extra special was the fact that his “all-time hero”, cricket legend  , handed him the Indian Idol trophy. “It’s a dream come true to win the title and it could not have been better than getting it from the legend himself,” said the 27-year-old, adding, “I finally got my girlfriend...” referring to an earlier interview where he told Hyderabad Times, “Abhi ke liye Indian Idol he meri girlfriend hain...” 
Revanth, who rocked the finale, with his electrifying performance of Ude Dil Befikre, said he is overwhelmed by the support that poured in for him. “I thank everybody who voted for me, especially the people of Hyderabad. I can’t wait to be in Hyderabad and meet everyone,” added the singer, as he took time out from all the celebrations in Mumbai for a telecon. Excerpts.
 
 
  
 I am already having a ‘celebrity wala’ feeling... I partied till 2 am with other participants and crew members of the show. We danced like there’s no tomorrow. But then I had to get up early in the morning as I had promotional activities and interviews lined-up. It’s all pretty crazy!
 
 
 Tears rolled down my mother’s eyes when I won the title; that got me emotional. When I hugged her, the first thing she told me was ‘Revanth, I know you are good, but always be humble’. Sachin sir also said the same thing and asked me to not let success get to my head. I had lost my father before I was born, so I know the importance of family. I have been brought up in a humble environment and I’ll never forget my roots. 
 
 
 Being away from my home had to be the toughest bit; but then I found another family here —– the Indian Idol family. It was a tough test. Before participating in the show, people’s opinions and criticism took a toll on me. A lot of people used to say things such as ‘Isko toh Hindi nahi ati, yeh toh already playback singer hain, kyun aya hain participate karne,’ and all that. Initially, that hurt. but I took the criticism in my stride and went out to prove my worth. I took it as a challenge and I won.
 Like I’ve said before, I’m an untrained singer and I have worked really hard to win this title. But there were people on the show, like my teachers Anand and Arun sir, who would constantly encouraged me and boost my confidence. So yes, it’s been a great journey and I think all three of us — Rohit, Khuda Baksh and me — are winners. 
 
 
 To tell you the truth,   sir was like a ‘raakshas’. He’s so good, he’d pick on every line we sang and correct us. I salute his commitment to perfection.   was sweet; like a mother — she made sure we didn’t miss our family. but Anu malik sir was the one who first believed in me. from day one, he would say, ‘Revanth, you’re my Indian Idol.’ I remember my first gala round performance was not so good as I was suffering from a throat infection, but Anu sir pulled me up. He always taught me like a teacher and supported me like a family member. So yes, I have a soft corner for him. 
 
 
 
 I am not shifting from Hyderabad. It’s my hometown and I love being there. I will travel to Mumbai for whatever projects I get, but my base will always be Hyderabad. I’ve got a few offers, so I’m hoping for the best. I will rock Bollywood soon. 
 
