
When   famously said, "I am a big fan of Hindu", it was with good reason. The Indian community makes a contribution to US life that is way out of proportion to its tiny size. Every year, for example, Forbes magazine in the US publishes a series of lists called '30 Under 30' - thirty of "the brightest young entrepreneurs, innovators and gamechangers" under the age of 30, in 20 fields from technology to social entrepreneurship. And what is interesting to note is the disproportionately large number of Indian names on these lists, year after year.
 
 This year, for example, as many as 45 of the 600 listees are of Indian origin. Which means that PIOs account for about 7.5% of the achievers, while the PIO population of the US is only 1.2% of the total - thus indicating how much above its weight the community punches.
 
 The main impact of Indians Under 30s today is in the field of healthcare (where they account for nearly half the list), followed by finance, energy, social entrepreneurship and marketing & advertising.
 
 These Under 30s are drawn from a wide spectrum of profiles. Some of them work at mega corporations - like Mansi Jayakumar, aged 29, who is Global Director of Innovation at the global advertising company Y&R, driving innovation initiatives across 190 offices worldwide.
 
 But, interestingly, over the years an increasing number of Indian listees have founded startups.  , for example, has founded Roomi, a tech startup that offers an app designed to address the perennial problem of finding a likeminded roommate to share an apartment with - helping you to locate suitable candidates, assess them via chat, search for apartments together, and finally rent the apartment.  , fresh out of college, co-founded the Unreasonable Institute, an accelerator for social entrepreneurs working to tackle the world's unsolved problems, from providing clean water to eliminating poverty. In fact, Ravilochan has helped nearly 150 social entrepreneurs so far find powerful mentors, and raise over $150 million in funding.
 
 But perhaps the most inspiring stories are those of the youngest of this year's listees: 14-year old Maanasa Mendu, on family visits back to India, experienced the problems of endemic power shortages and, in response, she thought up the concept of a piezoelectric "leaf" device that can harvest energy from the sun, wind and rain. Meanwhile, 17-year old Rohan Suri has founded a company to make a simple low-cost device that will diagnose concussion in accident patients - an idea he thought up when his own brother's concussion was misdiagnosed.
 
 So how tough is it to get into this list? This year, for example, Forbes received nearly 20,000 nominations. Out of every hundred nominees, only about 3 made it into the list: an acceptance rate that is even tougher than getting into   or Stanford.
 
 While Indian-origin achievers have traditionally made their presence felt in left-brained domains like finance, technology and science, this year there have been some breakouts from that stereotype. Like Tahir Karmali, a Kenyan Gujarati artist, whose mixed media portraits of outlier communities have been exhibited around the world. Akshay Khanna, VP of Strategy for the basketball team Philadelphia 76ers, is listed for his impact in sports. And Amir Hosseini, a food entrepreneur, who co-founded a food business, offering a fusion of Indian and Mexican cuisines.
 
 
