GURUGRAM: A 28-year-old driver, employed with a private company, was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly raping a   girl for the last four days after holding her   in his rented accommodation in  . He lived there with his wife and a three-month-old daughter.

 The accused, identified as Kapil Kumar, originally from Allahabad, had taken the girl with him to Tigra from a village in   on the pretext of getting her a domestic help’s job in  .
 
 According to the girl’s father, Kumar used to sexually assault the minor in the day time when his wife, a security guard in a private hospital, was at work. The minor could not tell the wife as the driver had threatened to kill her. Moreover, the minor was also made to take care of the accused’s baby.
 
 Earlier, Kumar used to live with his family in a village in Bihar, where they were neighbours of the minor’s family. Kumar shifted with his family to Tigra village a week ago.
 
 On April 28, Kumar went to Bihar and lured the girl into coming to Gurgaon with him on the pretext of providing her with a job. Later, when the girl’s family contacted Kumar asking about their daughter, he denied knowing her whereabouts. 
 
 The survivor’s father managed to reach near Tigra village earlier this week, but could not locate Kumar’s room.
 
 On Monday night, when the father called Kumar, he did not take the call and also blocked his number. The father then called him from another number and he received the call, but he disconnected when the father alleged that Kumar was lying to him about his daughter.
 
 The girl’s father then approached the police and Kumar’s mobile number was put on surveillance. After tracing Kumar’s location, police rescued the girl from his room and arrested him on Wednesday.
 
 The father said his daughter told him that the accused forbade her to leave the room and threatened to kill her.
 
 The wife of the accused denies knowing about the rape or even knowing Kumar’s purpose of keeping the minor in their accommodation.
 
 After a medical examination confirmed rape, an FIR was lodged against the accused under sections 346 (wrongful confinement), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC and Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act at Sector 40 police station. 
 
 During questioning, Kumar confessed to the crime. He was produced in a city court on Wednesday and sent to judicial custody. 
 
 “We are probing the case and also the role of the wife of the accused,” said inspector Sudhir Kumar, SHO of Sector 40 police station.
 
