Mumbai: “Dear Govt. what steps will you do to ensure such accident doesn’t repeat at #Elphinstone Rd Stn? Answer - We will rename it to Prabhadevi,” read stand-up comedian Atul Khatri’s most popular tweet. It was among the milder barbs that angry Mumbaikars lobbed at the state on Friday on   in reaction to the tragedy at Elphinstone Road   in which 22 people died and several were injured.

 Even as morbid videos of commuters trapped on the bridge circulated on social networks, inflamed Twitter hashtags such as #priorities and #22slainbystate lampooned the government for choosing to rename Elphinstone Road station as ‘Prabhadevi’ and going for high-cost projects like the Ahmedabad-Mumbai   when basic infrastructure remained wanting.
 
 The clear, overarching sentiment of this digital fire — keywords such as “apathy” and “shame” were all around, as were many “we-had-warned-you” photos of the crammed foot over-bridge — was that the government was busy fixing what was not broken instead of repairing what was. “Changing station names instead of focusing on improving and maintaining the infrastructure of the stations clearly shows that they don’t care about the people,” said Odell Dias, a Byculla-based digital marketing strategist who refers to the government as “they” in his tweets and speech. “Investing in bullet trains and statues is a waste of tax payer’s money. Even during the rains, people have lost their lives and this happens every year.,” added Dias.
 
 Railway minister Piyush Goyal, who incidentally landed in Mumbai yesterday, was not spared either. 
 
 “Please call it Prabhadevi station foot over bridge. Let’s be patriotic. We don’t like Birtish names. We only like British bridges,” tweeted activist Harish Iyer in response to Goyal’s tweet which mourned the tragedy at “Elphinstone road foot over bridge”.
 
 Skyscrapers have replaced the erstwhile mills in the neighbourhood of Elphinstone Road, Parel and Mahalaxmi and this should have been reason enough for the government to upgrade the station, said historian Deepak Rao. “The population is exploding but the station is still outdated,” said Rao.
 
 As news of victims being rushed to Parel’s KEM hospital came in towards the evening, social media was filled with appeals for blood donors that were generously met. 
 
 Many people gave solutions. “The government must build some other mode of public conveyance,” said Thane’s Nikhil Gupta.
 
