LUCKNOW: The ongoing   crisis took its toll on celebration of Hazrat Ali’s birthday on Tuesday, when several families had to make with vegetarian dishes, even as some managed to get whatever they could of the limited supplies of   and  , while buffalo meat was not available anywhere.

 Most of the families said it was the first time in their life they had to face such a problem and added that if the situation continued, they will join the meat sellers in their protest.
 
 The city has been facing meat crisis for the past 18 days following crackdown on unlicensed meat shops and slaughterhouses after   government came to power on March 19. Since then, it has affected marriage ceremonies and most social and religious gatherings, the latest being  , a centuries old tradition.
 
 Families in Gomtinagar, Indiranagar, Aliganj, Alambagh, Charbagh, Mahanagar and Hazratganj had prepared vegetarian dishes as they could not get mutton or chicken. Families in Chowk and Nakkhas had prepared single dish of mutton and that too in a small quantity, whome some in Maulviganj and Aminabad had prepared chicken dish in sufficient quantity.
 
 The crackdown on meat has led to loss of livelihood of not only those involved in meat trade but also of biryani rice, the sale of which has dipped more than 50%. As there is no meat available in market, people are not buying the special variety of rice. The worst affected varieties of biryani rice are ‘Khus’, ‘Gulab’, ‘Hari-patti’, ‘Nafees’ and ‘Nawazish’. 
 
 Rafi Hasan approached several shops for mutton but didn’t find any in his area. “I searched three localities for meat but not a single shop was open, so I asked my wife to prepare vegetarian food, much to our disappointment,” said Rafi a resident of Rustamnagar, Chowk.
 
 “I had asked a meat seller in my area for 5kg chicken on Monday night. On Tuesday morning, he gave me only 1kg and had no option but to accept whatever little there was,” said Sameer Abbas.
 
 Similarly, Mahanagar resident Sadiq said, “There is another celebration on April 15 of Rajab 17. If the crisis continues, Muslim families may join the protest of meat sellers on April 20.”
 
 “I got 1kg mutton and distributed 500 grams to my friend and that is how we celebrated the occasion,” said Ameer Khan, a resident of Lalbagh.
 
 
