While places like Jaipur and Udaipur are hot favourites when it comes to shooting a film or TV show, of late, directors have been exploring newer locations in  . After the team of the TV show Ek Shringaar… Swaabhimaan visited Bundi to shoot some scenes, the makers of upcoming show Ghulaam picked a small town Kishangarh for their show. 

 Says director Rajesh Ram Singh, “Rajasthan never fails to charm. And since there are so many locations here, as a director, you have a huge variety to choose from. I wanted to show the unexplored places of the state, so I came to Jaipur in September along with a few other members of my production team for a recce. After much homework and research, we zeroed in on Kishangarh, a small city near Ajmer and also Sambhar near Jaipur. I found both the places quite scenic and apt for our show. Since the show is based in a fictional small town Behrampur, I wanted a place which is beautiful, less exploited by filmmakers, less crowded and easily accessible. And Kishangarh perfectly fits the bill.” 
 
 
 
 
 
 Rajesh and his team were in Rajasthan in the first week of December and shot for 23 days. Actor Param Singh, who plays the lead in the show, took some time out from the shoot to visit Jaipur. He says, “There is nothing like turning your work trip into a pleasure trip. My upcoming show gave me an opportunity to see Rajasthan for the first time. I have never ever got a chance to see this beautiful part of our country. We shot in Kishangarh and Sambhar for almost two weeks in December. I got four days off after the shoot, so I travelled to Jaipur, Pushkar and Ajmer for some sight-seeing.” 
 
 Param, who was last seen in Sadda Haq, also explored Kishangarh and Sambhar after pack-up. He says, “After the shoot, I would explore the town. There's a beautiful lake adjacent to Phool Mahal Palace, where I was putting up. I used to sit there in the evenings all by myself. It was such a beautiful place to be in.”
 
 In Jaipur, the actor visited City Palace and Amber Fort, and gorged on pyaaz ki kachoris. “I enjoy travelling alone, so I had a great time in Jaipur. I saw all the major forts and palaces, took self-obsessed selfies and gorged on lip-smacking Rajasthani thali at a famous food joint, which a local friend had suggested. I also got some pyaaz ki kachoris for my crew members,” he says. 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
