NEW DELHI: India has lodged a strong protest with the US over the state department’s “Country Report on Terrorism 2016”, released on Wednesday, referring to Pak-occupied Kashmir (PoK) as “Azad Jammu & Kashmir” even as it states that the area is being used by terrorist groups to target India.

 The Indian government approached US authorities after the release of the report. An official spokesperson of the external affairs ministry told TOI, “The government has seen the mention of the term ‘Azad Jammu & Kashmir’ in the US state department’s country report on terrorism for 2016. We have raised the matter with the US authorities and lodged our protest.”
 
 This is the first time the US has referred to PoK as “Azad Jammu & Kashmir” despite the fact that the region is closely controlled by the   military in the face of Indian protests. Till recently, the US has used the nomenclature “Pakistan-administered Kashmir”. The report, however, praises India’s efforts to combat terrorism.
 
 On the other hand, India has reason to feel satisfied that the report refers to the Indian state as “Jammu & Kashmir” instead of its previous reference to it as “Indian-administered Kashmir”.
 
 The report, in the section on US government-designated foreign terrorist organisations, talks of Harkat-ul-Mujahideen (HUM) and says “the outfit conducts its operations primarily in the state of Jammu & Kashmir and Afghanistan”. It adds: “HUM operates from Muzaffarabad in Azad Jammu & Kashmir, as well as several cities in Pakistan”.
 
 Similarly, while talking about Hafiz Saeed-led  , responsible for several attacks in India including 26/11 Mumbai attacks, the state department report says “the precise size of LeT is unknown, but it has several thousand members in Azad Jammu &Kashmir and Pakistani Punjab; Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa and Punjab Provinces in Pakistan; and in the state of Jammu & Kashmir, India”.
 
 Muzaffarabad is the headquarters of LeT and other anti-India terror groups and PoK is used to launch terrorists into India and plan attacks on Indian military and civilian targets on the direction of the Pakistani army.
 
 TOI’s attempts to get a response from the US embassy remained unsuccessful. Some officials believe that even if PoK has been termed as Ázad J&K’ by US report, it doesn’t diminish the indictment of Pakistan for providing support and shelter to terrorists and cross border terror.
 
 However, officers associated with defence matters said the US should use more correct terminology. An officer said, “Azad J&K is often used by Pakistani government, its military and terrorist organisations like Hizbul Mujahideen, LeT, JeM, etc.” The report has flayed Pakistan for not taking action against terror groups.
 
 
