Nagpur: In another shocker, the   (NU) has left Bachelor of Fine Arts students of Government Chitrakala Mahavidyala in a spot by delivering hall tickets at the eleventh hour. Ideally, the hall tickets are delivered to colleges at least a week before the exam, but the NU kept delaying the process. Besides this, even after the inordinate delay students were baffled on Monday as hall ticket of one of them wasn’t generated. 

 Eversince the NU switched to online exam process, it has been delivering hall tickets as well as question papers to colleges through mail. The colleges have been given login ids through which the files are accessed. The exam of   I, II, III and final years are starting from Tuesday and Wednesday.
 
 Dean of the institute Ramesh Wadje said they received the files on Sunday and therefore the hall tickets were distributed on Monday. “We have been following up the matter with the exam section for the last one week. 
 
 “We were told the process was going on. On Friday I along with college officials visited the exam section and met director of Board, Examinations and Evaluations   when the hall tickets were not uploaded. On Saturday, they called to check but hall tickets were not there.”
 
 Wadje added that keeping in mind the students’ interest, the college clerk kept checking the online account even on Sunday from home. “Finally, the hall tickets were seen uploaded on Sunday and the clerk immediately downloaded them on his pen drive to avoid any further inconvicencie to students,” he said.
 
 Wadje said since he had left the city for an official visit, the additional charge of dean was given to  . As soon as the college opened on Monday, the clerk took Giri’s signature on the hall tickets and started distributing. 
 
 He claimed that by evening all the hall tickets were distributed. “The clerk later took the student whose hall ticket was not generated to exam section and assisted him,” Wadje said.
 
 However, the fiasco caused immense difficulties to students just before the start of their papers. “Are we supposed to run from pillar to post for a petty thing like hall ticket a day before exam or focus on preparation. We have also been left with very less time to go an see our exam centre. The BFA I paper starts at 9.30am and today we have almost exhausted ourselves,” said the aggrieved students.
 
 Director of Board, Examinations and Evaluations Neeraj Khaty didn’t respond to repeated calls by TOI.
 
 In a nutshell
 
 Ideally, institutes should receive hall tickets a week before the exam
 
 NU kept delaying the process
 
 Hall ticket of one of the students was not generated
 
 The college received the hall tickets on Sunday 
 
 Students received hall tickets on Monday
 
 BFA I, II, III and final years exams start from Tuesday & Wednesday 
 
