Nagpur: Though Nagpur University top brass is going gaga for being featured among the top 150 universities in the country in the rankings released by National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF), academicians say a lot still needs to be done. 

 “NU badly lacks in research component which is the core of NIRF rankings. The research is not only limited to projects, but also to copyrights and patents. Importantly, the value or usability those projects to the society are taken into the consideration,” senior academician Dr Vedprakash Mishra, having over 25 years experience in NU’s affairs, says.
 
 He pointed out that the failure of the NU administration to regularly modify its curriculum also works against it. “The syllabus should be at par with the changes in global standards. There is no provision of regular industrial interaction in the NU courses, which directly affects its placements.”
 
 Others like senior academician and former management council member Baban Taywade flayed the NU administration for ignoring genuine demands of affiliated colleges and failing to inspire them to host national and international conferences for promoting research.
 
 “In universities like Pune, they motivate the colleges to conduct research activities and also grant huge funds for conducting conferences. It all then gets reflected in their annual report, as funds are provided by the university. NU could at least grant 10% funds for the colleges for hosting such events and also to promote research activities.”
 
 He added that NU top officials keep on fighting among themselves instead of working together to take the institution to new heights. “There no such thing called academic calendar for various research activities in NU, like other universities. A lot needs to be done, if they want to break intro top 100.”
 
 Partially disagreeing with them, NU director for Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC), Manoj Rai said some factors like placements is not in their hands. “As the region has very few major industries, there would be obviously fewer placements as compared to Mumbai and Pune universities. A majority of our students migrate to these big cities for studies and jobs which ultimately improves their placements. But we’re making good improvements in the research sector with a lot of projects underway at various departments,” he says. 
 
 Some academicians say NU and its affiliated colleges need overhaul their style of working and need to motivate their students to participate in research activities, if all of them want to have a good score in next year’s rankings.
 
 
