JAIPUR: The Rajasthan police has been waiting to reopen several of its border intelligence outposts ( ) in Barmer, Bikaner, Jaislmer and Ganganagar districts to counter Pakistant’s espionage operations, however, the lack of funds have hampered its operation, ironically, several of these defunct outposts of are in dilapidated condition and crumbling due to regular sandstorms.

 The border intelligence wing of the Rajasthan police had been requesting the government to make plans to reopen about 25 of the BIOs in order to keep a close eye on suspicious activities in border villages. “We had closed many outposts following the completion of fencing alongside the international border. But, there is spike in espionage activities from other side of the border, it is evident from the fact that we have nabbed several Pakistani spies in last one year” said the official.
 
 The official said that in the absence of care, these BIOs, which consist of a single room with bare minimum facilities, are fast crumbling. “The rooms are locked, some are completely damaged due to sandstorms, others are getting submerged in desert,” said the official. He added that cops are now mulling over inspecting these areas to check their current state of affairs and if they are being misused by locals.
 
 Rajasthan home minister   had said that a need was felt to reopen these BIOs, however, he added that the state government is seeking funds from the Center to re-active closed outposts. The Rajasthan police in its recommendation to the government earlier this year had said that these outposts are required to ensure that vital strategic information is not passed over across the border.
 
 The intelligence sources told TOI that most of these defunct outposts are in Jaisalmer which shares a 471 long km international border with Pakistan. "We are seeking to re-open 11 outposts in Jaisalmer, these mainly are in Sultana, Shahgarh, Ghanana, Devikot, Dabadi, Chinu etc," the official said, adding that many of these outposts were shut down in 1995.
 
 Officials have also sought to re-open seven outposts in Barmer, "The BIOs are located in Sedwa, Gagriya, Ghandav, Panchala, and Janpaliya. We currently have eight operational intelligence outposts in Barmer, the new outposts would be used for purposes ranging from anti-narcotics to counter-espionage operations," the official said. Requests are also been sent to re-open four outposts in SriGanganagar, the district which shares a 204-km-long border with Pakistan. In Bikaner, two defunct outposts in   and Pugal are sought to be reopened.
 
 "We are currently operating with six outposts in SriGanganagar and four in Bikaner, the new outposts will allow us to keep an eye on the Pakistan's spy network," added an official.
 
 
