CHENNAI: When Prime Minister   mentioned in his Thursday address at Rameshwaram that the “absence of Amma ( J  ) is greatly felt in Tamil Nadu” an indirect reference was also being made to the leadership void that she left behind.
 
  Months after the   leader and former chief minister passed away, and the   patriarch   ageing, there is no indication of a mass leader emerging from the ranks of either Dravidian platforms.
  
  Although there have been several contenders, directly or indirectly, for leadership succession, political observers agree that the top slot — of aleader with command over the people of the state — remains vacant.
  
  “Jayalalithaa had a very commanding leadership. She had a strong voice, if not a vision. Karunanidhi, too, had command over the people and remained a versatile leader. But no one else has been able to provide that kind of leadership for the people after them,” points out political commentator P Sudhangan.
  
  “The Congress is almost dead, and the BJP is yet to get a foothold in the state, while the Communist party is fast losing ground,” says Sudhangan. These would most likely not be the parties from which the next mass leader in Tamil Nadu would emerge, he says.
  
  The AIADMK, led by then supremo J Jayalalithaa, was voted to power for the second consecutive term in May 2016. Following her death in December 2016, a series of dramatic developments led to a three-way split in the ruling AIADMK.
  
  A faction is led by chief minister Edappadi K Palanisamy, another by former chief minister  , and the third by some party leaders rallying behind jailed Jaya aide VK Sasikala and her nephew TTV Dhinakaran.
  
  While there is a general confusion among cadres as to which AIADMK is the real deal, there is consensus on the perception that it is the BJP that is controlling every development in these factions from New Delhi. “Even a small child knows that it is the BJP (at the Centre) that is controlling the AIADMK here,” says AR Venkatachalapathy of the Madras Institute of Development Studies.
  
  “You have a government in the state that does not enjoy popular support (after the demise of Jayalalithaa). It is only because of our democratic system that the current government is in power. This is not the kind of leadership that the people voted for. And the DMK (the main opposition party) is unable to expose this,” Venkatachalapathy says.
  
  “There is a void and I don’t see anyone capitalise on this,” he observes. “In the larger scheme of things, 6 to 8 months (of this leadership void) may not be of consequence.”
  
  A keen observer of Dravidian politics, Venakatachalapathy points out thatM K Stalin (M Karunanidhi’s son and DMK working president) has not been able to seize the day. “He would have naturally been the frontrunner, where he is unchallenged. But he has not demonstrated the ability to capitalise on the situation. What he did during the vote of confidence (in Tamil Nadu Assembly after Pannerselvam walked out of the ruling AIADMK) was a fiasco. It was an opportunity that was completely bungled. More importantly, in crucial ideological issues, DMK and Stalin have not been able to make a strong argument. While the intellectual world is agitated by issues including National Eligibility cum Entrance Test ( ) and Hindi imposition, DMK is unable to mobilise opinion on these issues,” says Venkatachalapathy.
  
  DMK spokesperson Manushya Puthiran, however, rebuts this and says that on every issue, the party has been forcefully placing the demands of the people.
  
  “MK Stalin has proven that he is the future of the DMK and he is taking decisions just the way Kalaingar used to. There is no leadership vacuum in Tamil Nadu, what is there is a governance vacuum with the ruling party in complete disarray,” he said.
  
  While the ruling and opposition parties have their own internal troubles to deal with, the political vacuum is seeing some new voices emerge.
  
  Actor Kamal Hassan has become more vocal politically than before as he continues his twitter tirade against the ruling AIADMK.
  
  The Chief Minister, senior ministers and AIADMK leaders are joining issues with the actor and daring Hassan to enter politics. Superstar Rajiniakanth, on the other hand, has also left cryptic messages about his entry into politics. 
