LUCKNOW: City traffic was held to ransom by protesters once again on Monday.Hundreds of gram rozgar sewak sangathan (GRSS) members gathered outside the Vidhan Bhawan around 11am to stage a protest and blocked the busy   and Darulshafa road, much to the inconvenience of the Monday commuters. The diversions taken by commuters soon crowded Hazratganj, Lalbagh, Vidhan Sabha, Raj Bhawan road, Burlington crossing, Husainganj, Cant, Charbagh, Alambagh till Shaheed Path and connected routes.

 Commuters on the stretch from   to the road in front of Darulshafa turned their vehicles around, and so did those taking the road in front of Raj Bhawan leading to Hazratganj and Vidhan Sabha Marg, resulting in jams in the vicinity of Cantt and Husainganj.
 
 A special squad constituted on Saturday by the SSP to manage traffic during protests failed its first test right at the beginning of the week. SSP Deepak Kumar said, “The squad was there and did not allow traffic to stop.“ He added it will take time for the squad to become effective once provided necessary tools.“
 
 TOI found the busiest areas of the city were as usual worst affected.Darulshafa: At 11:30am, agitators blocked the Darulshafa road and entrance of Janpath Market. As schools got over, students kept were caught up on Vidhan Sabha Marg, at Lalbagh and Hazratganj and Burlington crossings for hours.Lalbagh: Commuters were stuck for hours on the stretch from Novelty cinema to Kaiserbagh, Odeon cinema, Hazratganj and Vidhan Sabha Marg. Student were seen carrying bicycles on their shoulders to cross the jammed roads.Charbagh: The roads to Alambagh, Pan Dariba and Latouche Road were choked from 12noon to 4pm and not a single traffic police constable could be seen at the spot.Alambagh: The area is congested most of the time because of haphazardly par ked vehicles and the extra burden of diverted vehicles created bottleneck at Mawwaiya. Class IX student Ayush Keshav had asked his van driver to take another route from Hazratganj to reach Charbagh as his principal had forewarned students about the jam in Hazratganj and Lalbagh. “It took us 2 hours to cross Vidhan Sabha from Hazratganj,“ said Ayush. Preeti Jethlani, who came to pick her child, said, “There was not a single traffic constable from Lalbagh crossing till Mayfair trisection.“ Businessman Rehan Khan, stuck near KD Singh Babu Stadium, said, “I missed my business appointment at Tej Kumar Plaza as I lost two hours in traffic.“
 
 SP (traffic) Ravi Shankar Nim said, “We deployed extra constables and SIs to manage the situation but protesters blocked the road near Darulshafa and situation was under control after policemen arrived at Lalbagh crossing.“
 
 
 
 
 City faced logjam almost every alternate day in the past one-and-a-half month due to protest on Vidhan Sabha road. Despite assurances, the district administration has done nothing substantial to address the situation so far.Police alone cannot provide relief, although it can reduce the impact through better traffic management. The need is to work on the long pending proposal of shifting dharna sthal to a place where such protests do not create trouble for other citizens.
 
