PATNA:   government on Saturday decided to launch a unique plan of developing “organic corridors” alongside both banks of river Ganga by encouraging vegetable farmers of selected riverine villages not to use chemical fertilisers in their fields. Besides providing some financial incentives for using “only organic manures” in the fields falling under the corridor, the government would also suggest the farmers to re-use treated waters of those sewerages which fall in the holy river.

 The “organic corridor” scheme will be launched in the last week of coming October from a village near Patna. CM   on Saturday agreed to a proposal of the state’s agriculture department’s principal secretary   to inaugurate the unique scheme in the last week of October. “The organic corridor will be developed on both sides of Ganga from Patna to Bhagalpur. In the first phase, we will give priority to vegetable producers. In later stage, all farmers will be encouraged to use only organic manures,” agriculture minister   told TOI over phone.
 
 The minister said the process to select riverine villages, which would be part of the proposed “organic corridor”, has already begun. The actual date of scheme launching would soon be finalised. Earlier in the day while reviewing the works of agriculture department at the CM secretariat here, Nitish asked to officials of urban development, water resources, minor water resources and agriculture departments to develop proper coordination between themselves and take all necessary steps to implement the “organic corridor” scheme.
 The CM also ordered strengthening of the Bihar State Seeds Corporation (BSSC) to minimise the gap between requirement and production of seeds in the state.
 
 Bihar at present requires 15 lakh quintals of seeds of different crops per annum whereas the state produces only five lakh quintals of seeds. Highlighting the huge gap between requirement and production of seeds in the state, CM asked the officials to replace all old seed processing units with modern machines and enhance quality of the BSSC’s seeds to such a level that farmers, on their own, prefer to buy the seeds produced by the state corporation. He also asked the officials to hire services of experts to strengthen the BSSC and improve quality of its seeds.
 
 Water resources minister   alias Lalan Singh, Industries minister Jay Kumar Singh, Disaster management department minister Dinesh Chandra Yadav, Sugarcane Industries minister Khurshid alias Firoz Alam, chief secretary Anjani Kumar Singh and principal secretaries of various departments were present at the review meeting. 
 
