AURANGABAD: The city and region are likely to benefit from a range of   announced in the  . 

 Talking about the importance of health sops, Ravi Gaikwad of   Peoples Voice- Mission for Right to Health said that   should be considered first when distributing sops for Maharashtra.
 
 “The Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) here needs increased PG seats for medical courses. It will improve qualified workforce at the state-run hospital. Also, the region should get priority in starting Diplomate of National Board (DNB) courses,” he said. 
 
 Health sector activist Sangram Mourya, said, “Marathwada should benefit from the action plan prepared to reduce Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) and Maternal Mortality Ratio (MMR).” 
 
 “The government aims to reduce IMR to 28 by 2019 and MMR to 100 by 2018-2020. The backward region of Marathwada, where basic health facilities are still not available at many places should benefit from the action programme concerned,” he said. 
 
 Nalini Beedkar, a veteran, said that she was excited about the announcement of receiving Aadhaar based health cards for senior citizens. “The community of senior citizens need proper attention while offering health services and let us hope that the health cards facilitate such avenues,” she said. 
 
 “The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has described Union budget as a step forward for improving the health care of the society. This year’s budget makes a commitment towards structural reforms in medical practice and education as well as digital health. Though more focus could have been given to R&D in healthcare, many of the provisions are worth mention a and a step in the right direction,” it has said. 
 
 “The IMA has specifically appreciated proposed amendment to the Drugs and Cosmetic Rules. This will ensure availability of medicines at reasonable prices and help people get access to life-saving medicines, IMA has said.
 
 The IMA has further sought an overall increase in the budget for health care sector to cover 80% of the population, who are allegedly not availing government health services. 
 
 
