I was a Science student before I applied for Eco (Hons) at LSR. That was the time when everyone would say getting through this course was difficult, and so I applied and got it. I never liked it though, so my teachers were not very happy with my results. That was also the reason why I immersed myself in all the societies that our college had to offer. I was part of dramatics, painting and what not. I was also the vice-president of my college in the second year. When someone would ask me anything about Economics, I would hate it because I wouldn’t know anything. 

  
  
 
  In LSR, I got to play all kinds of roles. Had I taken admission in a co-ed college, maybe the boys would have got some roles. I remember our seniors would rag us, but it was all in good spirit. It was healthy ragging and I ended up making friends with all my seniors. They would ask us to do silly things, we were made to wear suits and call the dupatta as the 'lajja vastra'. We were supposed to wear our lajja vastra and roam in college. Since we were the hostellers, we had to do it. Once they even asked us to go to class wearing bed sheets, so we found innovative ways to wear the bed sheet. It was all fun! 
 
  
  Leena Yadav (circled) receiving the best student award from Kiran Bedi 
 
 
 It is Ernest Pondani's third year in Delhi. Though he wanted to study law from Delhi University, since the seats were full by the time he applied, he took up Political Science (Hons). "I got admission through the ICCR scholarship. The first year was tough because I was trying to cope up with the language. Sometimes, the lectures were in Hindi so I couldn’t understand anything. Gradually, I picked up a few words and now I can manage," he says.
 
  
  Ernest Pondani (R) with a friend 
 
  Ernest adds that since he is an introvert, he only has a few friends in college. "My teachers and the limited friends I have are really helpful. The one thing that I really like about the campus is the mood of Delhi University. It is lively and offers amazing experiences through a series of activities that are organized here - be it fests or conferences. It is actually like home away from home," he says, adding, "Everyone should follow their dreams. You might have to sacrifice something if you wish to achieve something. I wouldn't say that college life is easy for foreigners, but students should come here not only for academics but to lead a new way of life as well."
 
  
  
 
 
 Promila Kumar graduated from Hindu College and was a teacher with   since 1983 before taking over as principal in 2016. "In Gargi, we follow the tradition of developing a bond with our students. I am their principal, but I am also like their friend," says Kumar. 
 
 
  
  Promila Kumar poses for us in the campus of Gargi College
 
 
  She adds, "Since I have been a teacher at the college, I think the job of a teacher is more fun and interactive. While as a principal, you are expected to do more administrative work. You not only deal with students, but also work with the teachers and non-teaching staff. Though I am completely enjoying my time as the principal of the college, I think I would pick up the job of a teacher any day. As a teacher, you get to learn, interact and have more fun with your students."
 
  Kumar says that since hers is a girls' college, they are always more cautious about the safety of the students. "It is our duty to give them a secured environment. We are always cautious because we can never take any risk with their security," she says.
 
 
 Earlier this month, the Delhi HC said that DU was not a 'riff-raff haven'. The court was referring to the alleged assault on the dean and teachers at the Law Faculty last year and said that DU is not a place for political violence. Students are, however, divided on the issue. Some say that political parties often resort to violence to make themselves heard, others think that if there are genuine leaders who work for students, it is possible to have a campus free of violence.
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
