MUMBAI: The city crime branch’s anti-extortion cell arrested three aides of a fugitive gangster on Monday for allegedly firing at   last October and making extortion demands to its owner. 

 After committing the crime, two of the three accused fled to Gujarat. Last month, they allegedly shot at former Gujarat corporator Pragnesh Patel, who is currently recuperating in a hospital. The men were reportedly hired by a rival corporator. 
 
 On October 23, 2016, two of the three accused had fired at Gajalee’s ice-cream counter from a bike. They fled after leaving behind a handwritten message, asking the restaurateur to contact the fugitive gangster on an international number. While fleeing, they also told a staffer to hand over the chit to his boss. “Ask him to call or we will kill him,” they had threatened. 
 
 While no one heard the shot being fired, the accused were caught on the restaurant’s CCTVs and one of the staffers found the bullet cartridge while cleaning. Cops said the men fired at the restaurant to frighten the owner into paying the extortion amount.
 
 “After a lot of hard work and application of human intelligence, we arrested three persons who have admitted to their role in the crime. They told us that they had fired at the restaurant at the behest of their mentor,” said Vinay Rathod, deputy commissioner of police (crime).
 
 The arrested accused include   alias Anna (54), Ramesh Pujari (49) and Mrutiunja Daas (34). While Suresh and Ramesh Pujari allegedly shot at the restaurant, Daas helped coordinate the crime. 
 
 Cops have recovered four mobile phones from the accused but are yet to find the weapon used in the crime. All three have previous criminal records, said police inspector Sanjeev Dhumal.
 
 Meanwhile, police inspector Vinayak Vast said they are looking for three more persons for their suspected involvement in the case. 
 
 Meanwhile, Gujarat cops have arrested the three suspects—Suresh Pillai, Mohammed Momin and Ghanshyam Giri—in connection with the corporator firing case. Mumbai police said the weapon used in the Vile Parle case was used in Gujarat firing as well and that the same set of accused had fired at Patel. City cops are likely to take custody of the remaining accused from Gujarat police. 
 
 
