MUMBAI: It's not the odd defeat in what has otherwise been a splendid run for the Indian Test team that's worrying the country's cricket fraternity .Instead, it is India's own inability to counter a surface prepared to suit their strengths that's taking a repugnant toll on everyone.

 It doesn't suit the broadcaster ­ contractually obliged to pay through the nose ­ when a five-day game ends in just three. It doesn't suit the fans either ­ jingoistic or otherwise ­ when their team fails to recognise its own strengths and weaknesses. It's not suiting the   because for the second time in 14 months, the   ( ) has rated a pitch in India as “poor“. It's not suiting the Maharashtra Cricket Association because they're the ones being looked upon as the party responsible for dishing out the track.
 
 In all of this, who is to blame?
 
 The ICC on Tuesday announced that match-referee for the first Test between India and Australia, Chris Broad, rated the Pune pitch as “poor“ and in accordance with Clause 3 of the ICC Pitch and Outfield Monitoring Process, submitted his report to the ICC in which he expressed concern over the quality of the pitch.
 
 The report has been forwarded to the Board of Control for Cricket in India, which now has 14 days to provide its response. The Board will speak with all the parties concerned in this matter and reply to the ICC within the stipulated time. The response will then be reviewed by ICC's General Manager ­ Cricket, Geoff Allardice, and Ranjan Madugalle from the Elite Panel of ICC Match Referees. The matter will be decided in accordance with Clause 4 of the process.
 
 Clause 4 of the ICC's pitch monitoring process stipulates that if the surface is ruled as substandard, a warning and or a fine not exceeding USD 15,000 has to be given along with directions for corrective action. In the interim, Allardice will view the match footage.
 
 Back in December 2015, the ICC had sought a similar response from the BCCI when it rated the pitch in Nagpur as “poor“ during the course of the Test series against South Africa. On that occasion, Shashank Manohar was the chairman of ICC, president of BCCI and an ex-official ­ with a strong voice ­ of the Vidarbha Cricket Association.
 
 The ICC and BCCI, both, at that time, never revealed details of the response submitted. It's not known if a similar fate awaits the present scenario but it was confirmed to TOI on Tuesday by sources that the BCCI would submit a response after speaking with all parties concerned.
 
 The curator at the MCA is very clear that he and his team cannot be blamed. Their argument is simple: The pitch preparation wasn't entirely in MCA curator Pandurang Salgaoncar's hands. The members of the BCCI pitch committee and the Indian team management interfered in the process of pitch preparation. If the state association is not entirely in charge of the pitch preparation, they shouldn't get the blame.
 
 What needn't be overlooked in the whole matter is the fact that ahead of the Test match, the zonal head of the BCCI pitch committee, Dhiraj Parsana, joined the local curators in Pune and just 48 hours before start of the game, chairman of the committee, Daljit Singh, also showed up.
 
 
