PUNE: The   will soon set up additional   in the country, apart from introducing new products such as land surface water index, land surface temperature, and leaf area index, which are used for agricultural services like irrigation, sowing and  . Digital boards disseminating agriculture advisories in villages through a tie up with Indian postal department is also on the cards.

 N Chattopadhyay,head, agromet division,  , said the Met department is working with all states on how weather-sensitive information can be sent to farmers. The   — a Union government policy think-tank — has given a mandate as per which the 530 district agromet units (DAMUs) are expected to come up, apart from the existing 127.
 
 “As of now, these units exist in each agro-climatic zone. By 2020, every district in the country will have one such unit to ensure dissemination of improved district scale agromet advisory services and experimental generation of sub-district scale agromet advisories. The IMD already generates forecasts, which are sent to these units, which have agro-meteorologists and experts to gauge the effect of impending weather phenomenon on crops and agricultural activities. Advisories are then prepared and issued,” Chattopadhyay said.
 
 In addition, around 870 agromet observatories will come up for agro-meteorological services on monitoring evaporation, soil moisture, evapotranspiration, dew fall and desert locust monitoring. “The component of research and development will also include development of a land surface water index, land surface temperature, distribution, evapotranspiration and leaf area index. The modules will help farmers in irrigation, sowing, fertilizer and pesticide application activities, among other things,” Chattopadhyay said.
 
 The IMD has also tied up with the postal department. “Postmen visiting rural areas have been instructed to collect farmer-related information such as their phone numbers and names so that we could access farmers in the remotest locations. Also, digital boards disseminating agriculture advisories, forecasts and observations will be put up in rural areas across the country with the help of the postal department,” Chattopadhyay said. The boards will display information in regional languages.
 
 The IMD’s SMS services reach 20 million farmers in the country, while future targets include reaching 95.4 million farmer families. “The IMD is also endeavouring to improve the ‘alert’ services for farmers under extreme weather conditions. These services are an integral part of IMD’s climate services, which have already been initiated,” Chattopadhyay said.
 
 
