NOIDA: Traffic was thrown out of gear in Noida as   held a massive roadshow in the city to campaign for party candidate  , son of Union home minister Rajnath Singh.

 Hundreds of vehicles plied the roads of the city as BJP MPs Manoj Tiwari, Dr Mahesh Sharma, former MLA Vimla Batham and many local BJP functionaries led the roadshow to campaign for Pankaj from around noon.
 
 While only 10 vehicles were permitted to participate in the roadshow, hundreds of supporters on SUVs, bikes, rickshaws and autos were moving behind a truck ferrying the party functionaries including Pankaj. One truck full of CISF personnel was seen driving right ahead of Pankaj’s convoy, which had Delhi Police vehicles in tow.
 
 Teams of policemen could be seen managing traffic at some spots till the convoy crossed the Sector 4 traffic light and the district magistrate’s office in Sector 27, but after that the convoy passed through many congested areas, without any restriction imposed by the authorities. The roadshow lasted almost six hours.
 
 Along with the trucks meant for the BJP campaign, the vehicles started from the party office in Sector 4 and travelled to Sector 37, Chhalera, Sector 49, Barola, Salarpur, Sector 93 and back to Sector 4.
 
 Snarls began to be witnessed as early as noon at the Rajnigandha Chowk as vehicles of BJP supporters lined up near the BJP office on the main road, without any action by the local police or the traffic police.
 
 As the police tried to make way for the convoy, vehicular movement was stopped at Rajnigandha Chowk, Atta Peer Chowk, Sector 27, roads around the DM’s office, etc.
 
 With half of the road from Atta market towards Atta Peer Chowk dug up by the Jal Division 4, to insert a sewerage line, the other half was occupied by the BJP convoy, paralysing vehicular movement for about half an hour.
 
 Vishwa Sharma, who was travelling in a DTC bus from Delhi to Noida, said, “I am stuck in this bus for the past 30 minutes.”
 
 City magistrate Ramanuj Singh could be seen getting the activities videographed but officials denied taking any action against the participants for blocking traffic.
 
 “Those vehicles which joined the convoy on the way would have come on their own. Action can be taken only if party flags are placed on the vehicles,” he said.
 
 When reminded that the police had lodged an FIR when Noida SP candidate Sunil Choudhary’s welcome had caused a traffic jam on DND Flyway on January 21, Singh said an FIR was lodged because the vehicles had party flags on them.
 
 Sanjeev Khirwar, poll observer for Noida, told TOI that if a violation of the model code of conduct was found, an FIR would be lodged against those participating in the rally.
 
 On the other hand, police halted SP candidate Sunil Choudhary's roadshow near Golf Course.
 
 SP (City) Dinesh Yadav remained non-committal about action against the participants of the BJP roadshow. “We will view the video clip and then take a decision,” he said.
 
 
