MADURAI: The   on Tuesday that March 10 would be the last date for   with   has created a flutter among the public who feel that the deadline is too tight and want it to be extended. 

 K Shanmugam, a software engineer from Pasumalai, said that the time should be extended as he is yet to get Aadhaar for his five-year-old son. “The PDS website shows that Aadhaar details of all beneficiaries of a single card should be registered,” he said. 
 
 Many people who saw the announcement in newspapers found it difficult to register the number. “I came to know that we could register the Aadhaar number by logging onto the PDS website or the mobile app, but as I am yet to register my phone number with the PDS shop I don’t know how to do all of it in such a limited time,’’ said A Sundari, a housewife from Tahsildar Nagar in Madurai.
 
 The Tamil Nadu government has planned to distribute smart cards with built-in chips to cardholders in the state from April 1 to eradicate fake cards and beneficiaries. There are nearly 9.50 lakh cardholders in the district who receive goods through 387 shops in the district. Civil supply sources said that 88% out of the 9.50 lakh card holders had registered their phone numbers with the PDS shops, enabling them to get alerts on their mobile phone. The unregistered 12% are expected to be holders of the white N (no commodity) card, which they use only for the purpose of address proof and other documentation.
 
 Those who have not registered the phone numbers can get it done by approaching the respective taluk offices, including that on the district collectorate premises ( for city). After that they can get the Aadhaar included by approaching their PDS outlets. White card holders also need to register their mobile numbers which they can do at taluk offices. These card holders can also renew their cards by logging onto www.tnpds.com and clicking the N card renewal option.
 
 District civil supplies officer R Jeeva said that there was no need for people to panic. ‘It will be beneficial for them if they get their aadhaar card linked with the ration card at the earliest,” he said.
 
