MUMBAI: In a landmark order safeguarding the interest of fliers, the   has raised the flag on overbooking by airlines and urged civil aviation ministry and director general of civil aviation ( ) to evolve guidelines to prevent harassment of passengers refused boarding despite having confirmed seats. The ruling came in a case in which the commission awarded compensation to a passenger who was denied travel on an international flight. 

 "The policy to take care of such passengers and make arrangements to book them on alternative flights in the shortest possible time is opaque and no clear-cut guidelines are available on the subject," the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission said on Monday. 
 
 It directed that a copy of the order be sent to the secretary, department of civil aviation, as well as the DGCA to deliberate on the issue and evolve guidelines. 
 
 Kolkata-based Radha Kejriwal who was studying in the UK was denied boarding on a London-Delhi Jet Airways flight on December 9, 2009 on grounds that she arrived 70 minutes before departure instead of the stipulated 75 minutes. The commission, however, observed that the flight was overbooked and two others who arrived after her were accommodated. 
 
 The commission ordered the airline to pay the flier a compensation of 600 euros (Rs 42,300) under guidelines applicable to the European Union. The commission also directed it to reimburse Rs 82,000, the amount spent on booking an alternate flight. The total compensation will also attract nine per cent interest per annum from 2010, the year Kejriwal had first filed the complaint before a district forum. 
 
 In 2013, the forum had ruled in her favour. The airline, however, filed an appeal before the state commission which overturned the district forum order and dismissed Kejriwal's complaint in August 2013. She then filed a revision plea before the National Commission. The airline reiterated the time constraints before the national commission. Additionally, the airlines stated that when Kejriwal reached the counter, two seats were available, but these were given to others who had arrived before her. It further said that the flight was overbooked and three fliers had already volunteered to opt out and had been transferred to the hotel. 
 
 The commission however pointed out that the airlines had not produced documents which lay down a fixed time for reporting at check-in counters by passengers. "It is made out therefore that for her failure to reach the check-in counter 70 minutes before the departure, she could not be denied the benefits or compensation which would be available to a passenger who had reported 75 minutes before departure," the commission said. 
 
 
