MUMBAI: The 27-year-old man arrested for killing and raping the Vile Parle physiotherapist was a “peeping tom” by his own admission, said police. Accused Debashish Dhara (27) fled to West Bengal a month after committing the crime and was brought back to the city on a tip-off on Sunday. Dhara’s involvement in the gruesome crime was confirmed after his DNA matched that of samples collected from the 24-year-old victim’s body. Dhara, so far in custody on suspicion, has now been booked for the crime and will be produced in court on Saturday. 

 On December 6, 2016, between 2am and 3am, Dhara entered the victim’s mezzanine floor house as she was sleeping and had forgotten to lock the door. He didn’t know the woman. “He initially denied any involvement but later confessed to the crime. Besides, his DNA samples matched with those found at the crime scene. He first strangled the victim when she protested as he tried to force himself on her and raped the body in a gruesome manner,” said the investigator.
 
 For 50 days, nine police teams searched different locations across Maharashtra and other states before zeroing in on Dhara. Deputy commissioner of police (zone VIII) Virendra Mishra supervised the team—assistant commissioner of police Prakash Gavane, senior inspector Laxman Chavan, inspector   and others—and even made a slide presentation chalking out suspects like friends, family members, colleagues, neighbours, etc. 
 
 Dhara worked in a jewellery shop around 400 metres from the victim’s house.
 
 Mishra said Dhara confessed he roamed around the area during his free time, and would peep in through windows of houses. “Till midnight on December 5, Dhara was with a friend. The victim returned home with a friend who lived nearby, they chatted for a while and the friend left around 1am. By this time, Dhara was going around searching for unlocked doors in the area when he came across the victim’s door, which she forgot to lock after her friend left,” he said. 
 
 “Before leaving he covered the body with her clothes and books and lit a fire. The crime was unearthed when the smoke entered her neighbour’s house through the AC vent,” said a police officer.
 
 For about a month he stayed back in the locality but got scared when police reached his workplace and questioned his employer in the first week of January. On January 10, he fled to Bengal telling his employer he had to attend a court case. “A total of 12 DNA samples were collected, Dhara’s matched. We went through at least 250 images from 89 CCTV footages retrieved from different locations in Vile Parle and stations between Dadar and Vasai-Virar,” said investigators.
 
 
