NEW DELHI: Former Bihar CM   was at the centre of income tax searches at more than 20 premises in Delhi, Gurgaon and some other places in the national capital region as tax sleuths investigated 12 individuals, including  , allegedly involved in the controversial sale of land to the   boss’s daughter   and her husband.

 The I-T department’s investigation wing targeted 10 shell companies and 12 individuals in connection with a probe for the rights of a company which owned a farmhouse in Delhi’s  .
 
 A house in the capital’s posh New Friends Colony, alleged to be a benami property owned by one of Lalu’s sons, was also searched.
 
 "We are looking into [the] association of various people with the shell companies and studying the ownership pattern. After [the] verification of documents seized during the raids, we will decide if relatives of the former Bihar CM are involved and whether they will be questioned in the case or not,” a top income tax (I-T) officer said.
 
 The I-T searches come soon after disclosures by BJP member   and media reports suggesting that Prasad’s family acquired expensive property at throwaway rates by buying and selling shares in dubious front companies.
 
 On Monday, 
  , the chief of RJD ally JD(U), had said that if BJP had documents, it should order a probe. 
 
 Prasad, who had earlier said 
  who were vocal in their criticism of the government, called the saffron party’s leadership "egoist and fascist” on Tuesday.
 
 The 
  and said, “BJP does not have the guts to stifle my voice. Lalu has never been defeated nor is tired… has always fought and won.”
 
  had reported last week that Prasad’s daughter Misha and son-in-law Shailesh used a shell company KHK Holdings to buy a 2.8-acre farmhouse in Sainik Farms. 
 
 The company was originally owned by Vivek Nagpal, who had transferred the shareholding rights to the couple in 2014 for Rs 1 lakh (for 10,000 shares).
 
 Others whose properties were searched included Vijay Kochar, Ajay Kochar, Amit Katyal and Subhash Goel, sources said. 
 
 The I-T department is looking into Misha’s association and her directorship in various other alleged shell companies, whose premises were subjected to searches and surveys on Tuesday.
 
 Searches were also conducted on the premises of the son of Rajya Sabha member P C Gupta, a former Cabinet minister and close aide of Prasad.
 
