NAGPUR: A 28-year-old professional   5-year-old after showing her salacious pictures on his mobile phone at his place in   behind   at Tehsil on January 4. Accused Anil Chewle, who lured kindergarten student with chocolate, also clicked her obscene images, complained victim’s mother. 

 Parents came to know about the incident when they found blood stains on victim’s clothes. Victim’s father then asked her to identify suspicious culprit, who might have also molested other girls in the locality, by standing behind the window as he called up the accused on pretext of some work.
 
 Tehsil police have registered the offence of rape under the Prevention of Children from Sexual offences (POCSO) Act, 2012 and arrested Chewle on Sunday. The medical examination of the victim was conducted at Mayo hospital. Culprit was produced before court which remanded him to police custody till Thursday. Cops are yet to seize his mobile phone and camera.
 
 Cops said Chewle, while coming back from movie, sighted the minor playing in the narrow lane, as her mother, a housewife, had gone out. He lured her with chocolate and took her at his place situated in the vicinity. He carried her into the kitchen and started showing dirty images in his mobile phone. He laid her down on the floor and started forcing himself upon her. As she screamed in pain, he threatened her to kill, added cops. He also clicked her obscene pictures before letting her go back. 
 
 “Minor’s relatives saw her crying in the lane and asked her the reason but she kept mum. Minor changed her cloths and went to tuition classes. Meanwhile, relatives alerted victims’ mother who too noticed that minor was frequently checking her removed inner cloths and was scared,” said API P Nagtilak.
 
 Minor’s mother, after finding blood stains on the clothes, gained her trust after which she revealed the incident, said API. On Sunday morning, victim’s father, private employee, asked her to identify the accused. His doubt raised upon suspicious culprit due to previous unlawful activities. He made the minor hide behind the refrigerator and called the accused in front of his home. The minor recognized the culprit immediately. 
 
 Parents approached police station with victim and lodged FIR against him. Cops, after registering the offence, immediately nabbed Chewle from a marriage hall, where he was for assignment. Cops carried searched at his place but didn’t recover his mobile phone or camera. Further probe is underway.
 
