NEW DELHI: The report of the   ( ) on the   is likely to be submitted with deletion of a couple of references to former PM   though his office continues to draw flak.

 PAC chair K V Thomas held discussions with senior committee members and the line in the report “it is condemnable that the minutes (regarding appointment of Congress leader   as head of the organising committee) were revised unilaterally by the cabinet secretariat and the approval of the PM solicited” has been deleted.
 
 Also deleted is the line “the committee is of the considered view that the PMO/cabinet secretariat could have prevailed on the ministry of youth affairs and sports and ensured circulation of the minutes”. 
 
 However, the committee’s observation that the Manmohan Singh PMO was passing the buck on its responsibilities with regard to missing minutes and its submissions added up to specious arguments remains part of the report.
 
 The PAC’s conclusions on the CWG were reported in TOI on April 10. 
 
 Sources said members felt the report should not be reviewed in any substantial manner after being finalised. It was felt that Thomas’s concerns over some references could be considered and the report submitted before the end of the budget session.
 
 The Comptroller and Auditor General’s report on the 2010 Games and the findings of the V K Shunglu committee add up to a host of wide ranging criticism of the Games from the appointment of Kalmadi as organising committee chief and alleged malfeasance on the part of several government departments involved in the construction and servicing of the event.
 
 Thomas will be succeeded by Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge who will also need to take a view on other reports that date to the UPA tenure such as 2G spectrum allocations and the controversy over the Krishna-Godavari basin oil contracts to the Reliance group. 
 
 These reports have been a cause of concern for the Congress as they were major political issues in the run-up to the 2014 Lok Sabha elections.
 
 
