BENGALURU: The Rs 5 lakh fine levied upon   (CKP) for not clearing the garbage generated during Chitra Santhe has triggered a war of words between two senior Congress leaders.

 While   B L Shankar accused   of being selective in penalizing the art institution, his fellow Congressman and Bengaluru development minister K J Ge orge said the fine was imposed with the intent to discipline organizations holding public events, and the Parishath was no exception.
 
 “The move to fine CKP is arbitrary. While other organizations are let off for similar violations, the civic authorities have been selective in targeting the reputed art institution. We are going to question, at a proper forum, this decision that has been taken without application of mind,“ said Shankar, also the vice-president of Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee.
 
 Shankar was particularly upset over George's response to the issue. “We thought it was a misplaced proactive step by BBMP , and, therefore, approached the minister. But he told us that it was he who had instructed Palike officials to go after CKP . Why doesn't he take our point,“ wondered Shankar.
 
 Shankar indicated that he raise the matter with chief minister Siddaramaiah. A day after the annual art mart was held, BBMP issued a notice to CKP , saying the art institute had failed to take ade quate steps to ensure cleanliness and dispose of the garbage generated during the fair. The Palike also slapped a fine of Rs 5 lakh on CKP . Parishath authorities wrote to mayor G Padmavathi, stating that a private contractor hired by them had cleared the waste by January 17 morning, and the imposition of such heavy fine was uncalled for.
 
 “Why doesn't BBMP show the same enthusiasm when it comes to public events hosted by other organizations,“ asked Shankar. He was referring to the recently held Seva Utsav 2017, hosted by the Adamya Chetana, an NGO, which had   H N Ananth Kumar as the chief patron. Tonnes of plastic waste were generated during the utsav held at the National College Grounds, but BBMP didn't take any action, claimed the CKP president.
 
 George said the CKP was obligated to follow rules and that it couldn't talk about others violating norms.
 
 Chitra Santhe was held Chitra Santhe was held on Kumara Krupa Road on January 15. “I inspected the area and found it excessively dirty. We had to engage two contractors to clean up the place, which cost us a lot. We only want CKP to pay for the same,“ said BBMP commissioner N Manjunath Prasad.
 
 
 
 
 Adamya Chetana's event got over a while ago, and we don't know how much garbage was generated then. Now the issue is about CKP failing to maintain cleanliness... You cannot blame BBMP officials for doing their duty
 
 
 
