JAISALMER: The economic affairs head from the US Embassy,  , visited   here on Saturday. He was accompanied by  , another official from the embassy. Though the exact reason for this visit is not known, Fowler showed keen interest in commercial activities between India and Pakistan via the Thar Express. Senior customs officials were also present here.

 According to information from senior official sources, the US is collecting information about commercial activities between India and Pakistan, both at the Atari station and   station.
 
 Fowler sought information from passengers coming from Pakistan on Thar Express about the items being brought from across the border. He also wanted to know about items being taken from India and the activities of customs department.
 
 Sources told TOI that there is no trade route open between India and Khokharapar, in Sindh state of Pakistan, but since Thar Express runs once a week, passengers carry many items such as clothes, shoes, threads, supari, sweets etc. Sources said the US Embassy officials observed all the activities closely at the customs port and took a feedback about these from the officials at the railway station.
 
 There is a heavy demand for Jodhpur’s mawa kachori, Gadra’s laddus and Jaisalmer’s gotus sweets in Pakistan, hence people who travel there take these with them for their relatives.
 
 Henna from Sojat, stainless steel utensils of Jodhpur, Bikaner’s famous bhujia, papad, rasgulla, Barmer’s handicrafts are also very popular in Pakistan which the passengers take with them, sources said. They added that clothes, dry fruits, slippers, leather goods, thread and other items from Pakistan are also in high demand here.
 
 Before visiting Munabao, Fowler had visited Atari border post and took detailed information about the trade links between India and Pakistan. He took feedback there too.
 
 Before the 1965 Indo-Pak war, a goods train did run between Jodhpur and Karachi and business relations between Sindh and Marwar were very cordial then. However, after the war, the train route was closed. Later on February 18, 2006, the Thar Express was started on this route.
 
