NAGPUR: Slamming Maharashtra government for not submitting a status report on the enquiry against former deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and ex-NCP MLC Sandeep Bajoriya, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Wednesday sternly directed it to conduct the enquiry against the duo through Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) and file a report within six weeks.

 The court was furious after the government failed to comply with its last week’s order, when the HC had asked for the progress report in the enquiry against Pawar and Bajoriya. The two have been allegedly involved in massive corruption and irregularities in irrigations projects at Jigaon in Buldhana, Lower Pedhi in  , Raigad Barrage near Chandur Railway, and Waghadi in Yavatmal.
 
 A division bench comprising justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Arun Upadhye directed the ACB investigation officer to specifically conduct probe into allegations against Bajoriya’s firm that it bagged contracts of Jigaon and other projects on the basis of bogus documents, and submit findings along with audit report before next hearing.
 
 The directives came while hearing a PIL by Atul Jagtap through counsel Shridhar Purohit, alleging that in all these projects the contracts were awarded to   headed by ex-MLC from Yavatmal, at the behest of Pawar, who headed the irrigation department in the Congress-NCP regime.
 
 Pawar had also filed an application through senior counsel Mohan Bhangde and Shyam Dewani for deletion of his name from the case, contending that he had no role to play in the affair and there were no specific allegations against him. However, the court refused to grant immediate relief to him while adjourning the hearing.
 
 Earlier, water resources department (WRD) principal secretary Iqbal Chahal filed an affidavit informing that ACB has already conducted an enquiry into nine tenders of Jigaon project and requested the government to conduct their technical audit. Accordingly, the technical audit was conducted by Amravati vigilance circle’s superintendent engineer (SE) and report was submitted to  . The report is being scrutinized at the government level, and would be finalized within next four weeks, before being handed over to ACB.
 
 The affidavit filed as per HC’s oral directives further mentioned that the government directed Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation (VIDC) executive engineer in Nagpur through a July 28 letter to submit necessary information to ACB regarding 38 irrigation projects in Vidarbha, including Lower Pedhi. A vigilance enquiry has also been ordered into Lower Pedi work through same officer, and report would submitted before September 25. Even in Raigad Barrage and Waghadi projects, the SE would conduct probe and submit report within four weeks. Chahal assured to take appropriate action against contractors based on the SE reports.
 
