MUMBAI: Softening its stance on the   , Shiv Sena chief   on Saturday said that the project can go on if farmers were giving up their land voluntarily for the project.

 This comes days after after Uddhav supported the farmers protesting against the project and did not want to give up their land. Uddhav , who has toured the areas through which the highway will pass, said, “Even though the party is in power, we will not support any infrastructure project if it is hurting the interests of farmers. We want development but not at the cost of the lives of thousands of farmers. Shiv Sena will oppose such projects.“
 
 However on Saturday , Udd hav said that they will communicate with the affected farmers and tell them about the project and also about the compensation package that the government has announced in return of their land parcel. “Officials who are implementing the project are not communicating with the farmers and that is a one of the reasons for the opposition. We will meet farmers and explain them everything till they are convinced,“ he said. He added that if fertile land is being taken over, then they will see if the highway's alignment can be changed to save those land parcels just like it was done when the Mumbai-Pune Expressway was constructed.“To fulfill the government's dream, we shouldn't shatter the dreams of farmers,“ he said.
 
 Uddhav also rebutted reports of him and PWD minister Eknath Shinde (Shiv Sena) not being on the same page as far as the project is concerned. On Thursday , Shinde released compensation for farmers from Nagpur who voluntarily gave up their lands while Sena was opposing the project.
 
 “There is no difference between me and my party . I am doing what Uddhavji has asked me to. The compensation was given to farmers who gave up their land voluntarily . This is how land acquisition for the project will be done,“ said Shinde.
 
 Three Shahpur farmers hand over land, 343 others give consent
 
 Three farmers from Shahpur taluka, Ganpat Dhamne, Daulat Dhanke (Hiv village) and Ganesh Raut ( ), handed over their 1.97 hectres of land collectively for the Mumbai-Nagpur Expressway project on Saturday. It is the first sale deed for the project in Thane district. The farmers received a total payment of Rs 1.84 crore into their accounts through RTGS--Dhamne got Rs 72 lakh, Dhanke Rs 79 lakh and Raut Rs 32 lakh.
 
 PWD minister Eknath Shinde, joint managing director of MSRDC Kiran Kurundkar, Thane district collector   and deputy collector Revati Gaikar were present on the occasion.
 
 With this, the process to acquire land through direct purchase scheme has commenced in Thane district. In Thane district, the state government will acquire 582.5 hectares of land in Shahpur, Bhiwandi and Kalyan talukas. Shinde said, “The state government has received consent from 343 more people who have agreed to give away their land for the corridor. The process of registering the sale deeds and giving away compensation is on.“ Farmers who have given their land for the project have demanded life-long toll waiver on the proposed Expressway. 
 
 
