Books may undoubtedly be an aphrodisiac for our intellectual senses, but study shows they also help ease chronic pain. 

 When   said, “A book is a dream you hold in your hand”, he might have not realized that it could also be an inexpensive medical treatment to carry around in a backpack. While it is not unaware that a book is something that provides vitalizing fodder for our brains, a recent study has suggested that it could also heal a chronic affliction. Chronic pain is characterized by a persistent sensory and emotional discomfort that often leads to severe depression.
  
 The research found out that a literature-based intervention known as shared reading may be a beneficial therapy as Cognitive Behavioural Therapy(CBT) - a talking therapy that can help you manage your problems by changing the way you think and behave. 
 
 "Our study indicated that shared reading could potentially be an alternative to CBT in bringing into conscious awareness areas of emotional pain otherwise passively suffered by chronic pain patients," said Josie Billington from the   in Britain.
 
 The participants were allowed by the CBT to exchange personal histories of living with chronic pain in ways which validated their experience. However, the participants focused exclusively on their pain with "no thematic deviation".
 
 On the contrary, the literature, in shared reading was a trigger to recall and express diverse life experiences, of work, childhood, family members, relationships, related to the entire life-span, not merely the time-period affected by pain, or the time-period pre-pain as contrasted with life in the present, the researchers noted, in the paper published in BMJ Journal for Medical Humanities. 
 
 Participants with severe chronic pain symptoms were recruited for a 5-week CBT group as part of the study and a 22-week shared reading group for chronic pain patients ran simultaneously.
 
 The results showed that CBT participants "managed" emotions by means of systematic techniques, while shared reading turned participant's passive experience of suffering emotion into articulate contemplation of painful concerns.
 
 "The encouragement of greater confrontation and tolerance of emotional difficulty that sharing reading provides makes it valuable as a longer-term follow-up or adjunct to CBT's concentration on short-term management of emotion," said Billington.
 
 
