CHENNAI: The rescinding of R K Nagar byelection is an embarrassment for the   (EC) as much as it is for the state machinery. The poll panel miserably failed in fulfilling its mandate of ensuring a corruption-free environment for holding the byelection.

 After all, it was a bypoll for a small segment, just a few km from the seat of power, Fort St George.
 
 The commission promised to fix CCTV cameras on all streets, but did an apology for an electronic surveillance on the ground, covering very few streets. “In a sensitive segment that had all the trappings to be high on bribing of voters, instead of drafting   personnel, the EC deployed more CISF men, suited more for an ‘air-conditioned’ environment,” said a government official. Questions are being raised as to should there be bypolls at all in the state, if the EC is inefficient and incapable of conducting it properly. R K Nagar is the third instance of EC’s failure in recent times. In May 2016, the commission had cancelled polls in Thanjavur and Aravakurichi for bribing of voters.
 
 “The EC failed miserably, despite having a bitter experience of countermanding polls on account of bribing of voters a few months ago. What prevents them from taking precautionary measures?” CPM state secretary G Ramakrishnan asked. There is a clamour for disqualification of candidates on the basis of the evidence cited for rescinding the poll.
 
 The EC’s deployment of surveillance teams was delayed. On March 10, only 20 teams were deployed. It was stepped up to more than 52 teams only by the end of March.
 
 Initial reports of money distribution did not get due attention from the ill-equipped commission, said   leader Thol Thirumavalavan. “The commission allowed crores of rupees to be distributed before resorting to action. EC is a toothless body. It is good at only setting up booths, preparing electoral rolls and deploying EVMs,” he said.
 
 It was only in the last week of March that   was deployed. Former CBI director R K Raghavan said that CISF and CRPF perform different functions on the ground, but the CRPF’s commitments are far too many, because of which their quick deployment becomes a problem.
 
 The R K Nagar episode has proved that not only politicians, even people are corrupt. Defending the EC, a senior official of the commission said, “We took unprecedented precautions to ensure a free and fair poll. You should know that we don’t have laws to disqualify candidates for bribing voters”.
 
