MUMBAI: As the   debate rages on in politics and Bollywood, there is one conglomerate in the country that has a strict recruitment policy on hiring children of its working directors to avoid conflict of interest. Larsen & Toubro (L&T), the country’s largest engineering and construction company, has a policy of not hiring children of executive directors till they retire. Also, permission needs to be taken from   if non-executive directors want to induct their children into the company.

 This is perhaps the first known instance of a large diversified enterprise having a recruitment policy that leaves little room for bias. A M Naik, chairman of the $17-billion L&T, said that because of this policy, “even my son cannot work with the organisation until I retire”. The 75-year-old L&T lifer’s son works with   in the US. Naik will “step aside” from his executive position this month-end and will move into a non-executive role at the company where he started his career as a junior engineer in 1965. 
 
 While the policy has ensured that no directors’ official actions are influenced by personal relationships, Naik said that it has had its drawbacks as the company has lost several bright talents to other establishments like Unilever and  . 
 
 Naik said that there has been only one instance when a non-executive director’s son worked with the company and for this shareholders’ approval was taken. This happened four decades ago and he stayed with L&T for three years. Naik said that had this policy not been there, there would have been allegations of employees favouring their kin. 
 
 The policy ensures that L&T, according to its oldest executive, remains a professionally managed firm. L&T has seven working directors, including Naik, and 13 non-executive directors. The rule applies to the company’s 117 subsidiaries, too.
 
 Nepotism has been a hot topic of debate over recent months after actor Kangana Ranaut accused Bollywood of favouring star kids and the BJP raked up the issue of dynasty politics in the Congress. In several corporates too, especially promoter-driven, prominent posts are held by children, siblings and spouses of directors. There are certain exceptions. Axis Bank has a policy against hiring a staffer’s immediate family members (spouses, siblings and children — including step and adopted). At IT services firm Mindtree, only blood relatives (children) of an employee cannot be recruited, while spouses are allowed.
 
 
 
 It is known that Infosys has made its employees millionaires by offering them stock options. A traditional company like L&T, too, has created wealthy staffers. Nearly 2,500 L&Tites have become millionaires over the last one and a half decades. The first time the company issued shares to employees was in 2003, soon after it warded off a takeover from Aditya Birla Group. L&T’s share price has risen from Rs 23.48 (adjusted for all corporate actions) in 2003 to Rs 1,185 now. 
 
 The employee stock options (Esops), which is 7-8%, also acts as a fence against any unwarranted acquisitions, besides the 12.5% held by L&T Employee Foundation. Naik said that this structure (L&T Employee Foundation and Esops) ensures that it won’t be easy to take over the company as 20% is a big chunk to buy. “Also, we have ensured that the stock remains expensive so that no one can afford it.” L&T aims to increase its market cap to Rs 2.50 lakh crore from the current Rs 1.65 lakh crore by the end of this decade.
 
 
 
