CHENNAI: Medical Council of India (MCI) has recommended action, including withdrawal of permission for  , against four private medical colleges in  , for  ,   and lack of faculty. If the colleges, including two in Chennai, face action the state will lose at least 500   this academic year.

 MCI vice-president Dr C V Bhirmanandham, who was a part of the nine-member executive committee meeting held on April 28, said they had initiated action against several colleges across the country for lack of infrastructure and faculty. “We insist on NEET to ensure students have a certain standard. How can medical colleges be spared if they don’t have a standard? Action is being taken for lack of faculty and infrastructure. If medical college hospitals don’t have enough patients they can’t teach. We follow a no compromise formula in medical education standards at all levels. Action has been taken on several colleges across the country,” he said.
 
 In Tamil Nadu, the committee has recommended debarring Coimbatore-based Karpagam Faculty of Medical Sciences and Research from admitting 150 MBBS students for two years. It has also decided to issue show-cause notices to Chettinad Hospital & Research Institute, Kanchipuram district, and Chennai Medical College Hospital & Research Centre, Trichy asking why their recognition should not be withdrawn. The number of MBBS seats may be reduced to 100 from 150 for Sree Balaji Medical College and Hospital, Chennai.
 
 If administrators of medical colleges were found fudging attendance, tampering records or inflating patient numbers the committee has referred the case to the ethics committee for disciplinary action, including cancellation of medical licences for those individual doctors. 
 
 The apex body regulating medical education in the country has recommended to the central government to debar Coimbatore-based Karpagam Faculty of Medical Sciences and Research from admitting students to MBBS degrees (150 seats) for at least two year (2017-18 and 2018-19) as per directions passed by the oversight committee in August 2016 for deficiency in faculty and fudging patient records. Besides more than 17% deficiency of faculty and shortage of residents, an MCI inspection team found patients record fudged. According to the minutes of the executive committee, the medical college had inflated out-patient attendance, bed occupancy and number of surgeries. 
 
 MCI team found similar problems during inspection at the Chettinad Hospital & Research Institute, Kanchipuram district. It is a deemed university which has 150 MBBS seats. While a quarter of the required faculty and three-fifth of the residents were not available, the inspection team found signatures of doctors forged.
 
 “The signatures of three residents in surgery -- Dr Srigirees, Dr Balamuralee and Dr Ajay -- were forged on the attendance sheet signed at 11 0’ clock in the morning. One of the Residents in their department confessed of signing on their behalf. The signatures of these doctors in the attendance sheet done in the morning at 11 0’ clock are not matching with their signatures done at the time of verification in the afternoon,” the minutes said. It also said that the signature of pathology professor Dr Sushma Nayar was not matching. The team found only 42.6% of the beds in teaching medical college hospital occupied. Most of patients did not require admission, it said. Admissions of most in-patients were unwarranted, it said.
 
 Following this, the Committee has decided to issue a show cause notice to the college asking why the institute renewal / recognition for award of M.B.B.S. degree / processing the applications for postgraduate courses should not be withdrawn for two academic years. The Executive Committee will also refer the matter to the ethics committee.
 
 Based on complaint received through CBI, Chennai, the MCI inspected Chennai Medical College, Trichy, and found inadequate faculty and patients, inflated patient records. The committee hence decided not to consider the Institute for processing applications for postgraduate courses in 2017-18 and to issue show cause notice as to why the recommendation for withdrawal of recognition of the courses run by that institute should not be made for undergraduate and postgraduate courses.
 
 It was decided that permission for increase intake of fifth batch MBBS (from 100-150 seats) will not be granted to the Shree Balaji Medical College and Hospital, Chennai for 2017-18. The private college, under the Barath University, will be allowed to admit only 100 MBBS students due to lack of infrastructure and faculty.
 
