KOCHI: A single bench of the   on Tuesday cancelled the recommendation of the   for annulling the   in Kerala University for  . The appointments need not be cancelled for infirmities in the selection process in the absence of any finding regarding nepotism or corruption, it said.

 The judgment came on a batch of petitions filed by appointed candidates, the vice-chancellor, pro-vice-chancellor and syndicate members. The Upa Lokayukta had, in September 2008, submitted a report to the state government recommending cancelling the appointments and initiating proceedings against the vice-chancellor, pro-vice-chancellor and four syndicate members. The recommendation came on a complaint filed by former senate member Sujit alleging manipulation of marks and irregularities in selection.
 
 The report, prepared by a committee headed by a former district judge, had said that malpractices were found in the selection. Of 37,656 candidates who appeared for a written test, the university shortlisted 2,000 candidates for interview and published a rank list of 1,401 candidates. The university syndicate, in April 2008, resolved to appoint 200 candidates and appointment orders were issued to 170. The OMR answer sheets of candidates who took the written test had gone missing.
 
 The university's counsel contended that there was no allegation that the members of the nominated body (syndicate) and those of the elected body (senate) had the very same ideologies so as to conduct a selection to appoint persons of choice.
 
 The court said though the complainant furnished a long list of candidates who were alleged to have been favoured by malpractices, there is no finding that any of them were given any marks at the instance of any respondent or otherwise. Also, none of the officials is found to have any personal interest so as to have any personal gain either to himself or to anybody else. It said the complaint that the selection board members wanted to bring in CPM sympathizers could not be substantiated or ruled out completely.
 
 The judgment, however, said appropriate action should be taken against university officials "for the casual, careless and irresponsible approach in conducting examinations".
 
 Disposing the petitions, the court held that the appointments made should be treated as regular and they were entitled to all service benefits.
 
