BENGALURU: Once better known as the ‘beer capital of India’, Bengaluru today is witnessing a steady fall in consumption of the fizzy liquor. While there has been a visible decline in the past three years, the sales hit a four-year low in 2016-17, with 60.42 lakh boxes sold between April and December.

 The dip in beer sales, however, coincides with a rise in sale of  , which experts say is an indicator of the change in drinking habits in the city.
 
 The volume of 60.42 lakh boxes (each box contains 12 bottles of 650ml each) is a decline from 65.01 boxes sold during the corresponding period in 2015-16. The latest figure is almost equal to 59.24 lakh boxes sold in the first three quarters of 2012-13.
 
 In contrast, the sale of hard liquor has shown a growth -- 90.72 lakh boxes were sold between April and December 2016 ; last year, 87.61 lakh boxes sold in the corresponding period. This growth has been steady, with an average 5% increase in the past four years. 
 
 “Once, beer used to be a catchword to define Brand Bengaluru, but it’s no longer so. The trend shows that the young generation is migrating from beer to what is called white alcohol, including vodka, white rum and gin,” said Harish Bijoor, a brand domain specialist. “It’s also an indication of the changing society, wherein social acceptance for white alcohol is increasing and hard drinks are fast replacing beer,” he added.
 
 According to Bijoor, while an elite class among beer lovers has shifted to high-end pubs with microbreweries, where fresh beer is made on the spot, another major chunk has switched to Indian Made liquor (IML). 
 
 Endorsing Bijoor’s view, several pub owners said they were witnessing changing priorities among pub-hoppers. “Till recently, young girls and boys would prefer beer. Now, they ask for hard liquor. Also, whisky is high among the other favourite drinks,” said  , managing director of Madhuloka, a wine boutique chain. 
 
 Retail outlets too are seeing a dip in sale of beer. In fact, the trend isn’t just limited to Bengaluru. Rest of Karnataka is also seeing beer losing out to IML. Against an average monthly sale of 24 lakh boxes, beer sold below 19 lakh boxes in almost all months of the 2016-17 period across the state. Meanwhile, monthly sale of IML was up by 7% in the same span.
 
 “Normally, beer sales would go up during summer. But this hasn’t been the case in the past three years. It’s clearly declining,” said G Honnagiri Gowda, president of Karnataka Wine Merchants Association. 
 
 Excise officials attribute the trend to price rise. “We are still analyzing the trend. Hike in beer prices may be one of the key reasons for change in consumption pattern. However, changing priorities remains the main reason,” said S K Shivaiah, excise deputy director (statistics).
 
 In 2015, the additional excise duty (AED) on beer was hiked from 135% to 150%, taking the price of a 680ml beer bottle to Rs 125 (MRP of beer varies depending on brands as they have different base prices and some brands sold at Rs 130) Apart from AED, beer served at bars and restaurants come for Rs 10 excise duty per bulk litre and 5.5% value added tax (VAT). 
 
 Beer prices have been steadily increasing over a period of time, and it has seen over a 100% hike in just eight years. A beer bottle that was sold for Rs 60 in 2008, today costs Rs 125. Prices of hard liquor too have shot up, but it has not stopped people from raising a toast. 
 
 NOT DEMONETIZATION’S DOING
 
 Demonetization, however, seems to have had little impact on sale of beer, at least for the month of November, when the Centre announced the move. In fact, April and November were the only months which saw a rise in beer sales in 2016. In November, 6.83 lakh boxes sold in Bengaluru. However, it fell 6% in December in tune with the downtrend. 
 
  CASH FLOW FOR EXCISE DEPT
 
 For 2016-17, the excise revenue target is Rs 16,510 crore, and the excise department seem to be just on target as of December. Against an average monthly target of Rs 1,400 crore, the department has earned more than Rs 1,350 crore till December, and most of it has come from sales of hard liquor.
 
