MADKAI: Any mention of the   (MGP) brings to mind Ramakrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar, even before the party’s symbol, the lion.

 Sudin also brings to mind his 10-year-long tenure as PWD minister, in both the   and BJP governments. His knack of turning the equation in his favour, no matter who forms the government, has earned him the image of a shrewd politician.
 
 However, in his constituency of Madkai, Sudin’s image is very different and there are no signs of disenchantment with him there. The constituency has been the MGP stronghold since the days of Dayanand Bandodkar, a legacy which Sudin — now contesting for a fifth term — carries forward.
 
 Philanthropic, helpful, efficient and numerous other such adjectives are attributed to him by his voters. “He will be holding just one public meeting before the polls. He helps his constituency people get jobs, pays college fees and even clears electricity and water bills, if required. Why does he need to campaign?” said Madkai voter Viresh Rivankar.
 
 In recent years, Sudin’s wife has been linked to the controversial Sanatan Sanstha. But it seems to have done little to dent his voter base.
 
 In fact, since he was first elected in 1999, dethroning Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Shripad Naik, Sudin’s voter base has more than doubled, bagging nearly 15,000 votes at the last polls. Runner-up Ritesh Naik of the Congresshad much catching up to do with 7,722. “Apart from the Ranes, if there is anyone who is assured of sailing through these elections, it is Sudin,” said an observer.
 
 Adpai and Kundaim are believed to be only two areas in his constituency where Sudin is lagging due to pockets of some loyal Congress voters.
 
 While Congress has fielded Urmila Naik, the BJP candidate for Madkai is Pradeep Shet, while AAP has fielded Surel Tilve. Hanumanth Naik is the sole independent candidate. BJP doesn’t have a strong base in the constituency. It has tried hard to penetrate the MGP pockets in Ponda and Priol constituencies since 2012, but not so much in Madkai. 
 
 Sudin has effectively built on the traditional MGP voter base, and other parties may face an uphill task in their attempt to make inroads here.
 
 “While others like Ravi Naik and Ramakant Khalap left the MGP, Sudin stayed put and helped the party maintain its fort,” said an observer. Poll watchers say that while Sudin is making frantic attempts to see that brother Deepak retains Priol, he is also looking at expanding MGP’s base. Given his relatively easy run in Madkai, Sudin has enough time on his hands to spend elsewhere.
 
 In 2012, MGP entered a pre-poll alliance with BJP, but all along maintained that it did not necessarily mean a post-poll alliance. “It is our responsibility to form the government,” he had said about his opportunistic alliance.
 
 The BJP got a simple majority then and the alliance materialized. Sudin was given the powerful portfolios of PWD and transport and his brother was also given a berth in the cabinet by then chief minister Manohar Parrikar.
 
 This time around, Sudin, following inputs of strong resentment against the BJP, has entered into an alliance with the Goa Suraksha Manch (GSM) and the   (SS), in a grouping of far-right parties. But this time too, Sudin has refused to state clearly that a post-poll alliance with BJP will not happen.
 
 Sudin has come out this time to declare himself as the chief ministerial candidate, making it clear he will settle for nothing less. Will he be able to sway the tide at his will this time, too? He has definitely raised the stakes.
 
 
