THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With an unprecedented resolve to promote the study and use of  , the state government has promulgated an ordinance making the teaching of the language compulsory in all schools in the state till Class X, irrespective of the syllabus.

 “The ordinance in this regard was sent to the governor for approval on Monday. The governor gave his ascent on the same day itself. We had earlier planned to make Malayalam compulsory up to higher secondary classes. This was revised as up to Class X in view of the practical difficulties. The law would be applicable from the 2017-18 academic year,” chief minister   told reporters at a news conference here on Tuesday.
 
 “There were reports that some school authorities punish students if they speak in Malayalam on the campus. Such tendencies will no longer be tolerated. The schools cannot issue any instructions or directions that discourage students from speaking in Malayalam. No boards should be erected on campuses directing students to use any language other than Malayalam. If CBSE/ICSE or any other schools flout the norms in the ordinance, the government will cancel their ‘no objection certificate’ (NOC). An affidavit declaring the willingness to teach Malayalam will be a prerequisite to apply for NOC,” he said.
 
 Similarly, teaching of Malayalam will be a condition for granting recognition to unaided schools as per Kerala Education Rules (KER). The rules and regulations in the ordinance has provisions to slap fines of up to Rs 5,000 on the headmistress/headmaster if a school fails to follow the government guidelines regarding Malayalam education.
 
 However, Malayalam subject would not be made compulsory for other state and foreign students to pass Class X, Vijayan said. “Malayalam examination would not be compulsory for such students in Class X. Provisions would also be introduced for students in linguistic minority schools who express interest in studying Malayalam,” the chief minister said.
 
 Vijayan said the government decided to bring in the law as an ordinance in view of its urgency. The schools need to prepare themselves to follow the order. Now, they will get enough time to improve facilities or make any other arrangements for ensuring compulsory education of Malayalam in schools, he added.
 
 Meanwhile, the   welcomed the move. “We welcome the ordinance but the government should make appropriate provisions for CBSE schools to adopt it within the existing system. The government must meet with the stakeholders and decide on how to implement this ordinance without causing difficulties for students,” said the association’s president, T P M Ibrahim Khan.
 
 The state government, in a separate order on Monday, declared compulsory the use of Malayalam as official language in government departments, quasi government organizations, and public sector institutions, autonomous and cooperative institutions. 
 
 As per the decision taken by the high power committee on official language, orders, circulars and letters from the above mentioned departments and institutions should be in Malayalam.
 
