PATNA: Bihar, a state with a population of over 9 crore, spends only Rs10 lakh on the purchase of books per year. As per official sources, the per capita annual expenditure on library books in the state is hardly one paisa, while the national average is seven paise.

 More than 5,000 village libraries in the state have been shut down for want of funds in the past seven to eight decades. There were over 6,000 village libraries in Bihar during the 1930s, but the number has dipped to 400. The condition of most of these libraries is appalling as they lack basic reading materials, necessary infrastructure and qualified librarians. Most of them do not even have money to purchase newspapers and new books and periodicals are a distant dream. Only a few can boast of having computers and internet or Wi-Fi service for the visitors.
 
 The Planning Commission guidelines suggest that there should be at least one village library for a population of 1,000. In Bihar, there is hardly one library for a population of two lakh. The new-look panchayati raj envisages setting up of one library in every panchayat. This will require opening of about 90,000 new libraries in the state. 
 
 “Who will take the initiative of setting up such a large number of libraries and where will we get the funds from,” asks   retired librarian  . He points out that there is a co-relation between the minimal expenditure on libraries and the low literacy rate. “In Kerala, where the literacy rate is more than 95%, over 3% of the education budget is spent on libraries. In Bihar, the ratio of the education budget that goes into libraries is only 0.01%,” he adds.
 
 A N   former librarian S F Rab asserts that despite the advent of information technology tools, the role of public libraries in educating the masses cannot be undermined. He says public libraries are still considered an essential part of the society having an educated and literate population.
 
 Magadh University’s retired chemistry teacher   regrets that all the libraries opened during the freedom struggle or even later are in a deplorable condition and many of them are even on the verge of closure. “Internet cannot be an alternative to books. Youths today should know that they can increase their knowledge only with the help of good books,” he says.
 
