NEW DELHI: The traffic police have drawn up a preliminary plan to decongest three major stretches in the city—Dhaula Kuan,  . The proposal was presented to lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on Thursday where he asked officials to ensure that other than removing bottlenecks to ease traffic, pedestrian safety should be kept in mind while planning road infrastructure.

 The   stretch, which is under consideration, extends from the Dhaula Kuan bus stand up to RR Hospital. Officials said regulation of bus movement was their main concern. “Three kind of public transport vehicles use this stretch—DTC buses, interstate buses and TSRs and taxis near the Airport Metro station. Even the DTC buses use three exit points from the main bus stop, which creates traffic congestion here all the time,” said an official. “We have a proposal that some of the existing bus stops need to be shifted from congestion points. Some land has been identified behind the Metro pillars, which can be used to accommodate buses so that public transport vehicles can move to one side and the remaining road can be kept free for other traffic.”
 
 The stretch between INA Market to Adhchini on Aurobindo Marg is another traffic nightmare even as it is flanked by two major hospitals, markets on both sides and a short strip of residential area.   suggested that all through this stretch, it would provide at-grade crossing for pedestrians in the form of zebra crossings or blinker lights but the traffic police have suggested setting up of foot overbridges at a few points. 
 
 “Traffic police have recommended setting up of FOBs at some points like Yusuf Sarai and AIIMS. Similarly, for the third stretch of Mathura Road—from Neela Gumbad to Aali Village—they have suggested FOBs at points like Aali Village and Nizamuddin,” added the official.
 
 Certain common recommendations have been made, like shifting of bus stops by 100-150m away from traffic signals. PWD has also been asked to remove islands from the middle of roads and construct central verges where none exist, or repair the existing ones and increase their height, if required.
 
 “All these issues will be taken up once again with PWD and the three municipal corporations. In fact, very soon a joint survey will be conducted by traffic police, PWD and the corporations to prepare a more detailed plan to decongest these stretches. During this survey, we will identify bottlenecks, stretches which have a high pedestrian use and then work out how these issues can be resolved,” said a traffic police officer. 
 
 “However, since these will require major interventions by PWD, it will take several months for any significant difference to be seen on the stretches.”
 
 
