CHENNAI: Even as the   talks about about shutting down the city’s landfills, the local body has casually increased the dumping area at the   landfill. 

 On Sunday, TOI found huge mounds of garbage rotting by the Thoraipakkam-Pallavaram radial road, abutting the compound wall of the Perungudi  . This is not only a potential health hazard but has also made commuting on the stretch unbearable for motorists, due to the stench from garbage.
 
 “The garbage started appearing on the roadside about 10 days earlier. It has grown in size in the last one week. (The mound) should be at least six to eight feet high,” said S Rangarajan, a regular commuter on the 200 feet Radial Road.
 
 When contacted, a corporation official told TOI, “We did not dump waste from inside the landfill on the outside. We have told our lorry drivers to not dump waste by the road.”
 
 Where did the waste come from? According to the official, the waste was always there. “Recently, we dug a channel abutting the compound wall. When we dug the ground for cutting the channel, we picked up the trash and piled it in a heap. If (the mound) appears too high, we will use a JCB to level it,” the official added.
 
 Landfill workers told TOI that the channel was dug after a fire broke out three months ago. The waste at landfill had caught fire though the fire itself did not start inside the facility. After the fire incident, it was decided to have a buffer zone around the landfill, so as to prevent outside sparks from igniting the methane-rich landfill site. “The channel would create a damp buffer zone,” a source said.
 
 TOI contacted Regional Deputy Commissioner (South) S Gopala Sundara Raj, who acknowledged that the channel was dug after the fire.
 
 But the channel has already turned into a sewage carrier. According to landfill workers, the channel helps unload a huge quantity of untreated sewer water, released from the nearby Metrowater sewage treatment plant, directly into the Pallikaranai marshland. “The sewage is released after dark or very early in the morning,” a landfill worker said.
 
 TOI contacted Metrowater officials who denied releasing untreated sewer water. “It is not possible,” the official contended. When TOI said there were pictures to prove sewer water was entering the marsh through the channel, the official replied that he will “check the issue” with corporation engineers.
 
 Jayaram Venkatesan of the Arappor Iyakkam, a group which exposed illegal letting out of untreated sewer water by the Metrowater, said unless an online monitoring system is implemented, no responsibility can be fixed on Metrowater for its shortcomings.
 
 
