KOLKATA: The Indian Institute of Management-Calcutta has had to suspend its popular “Institute Lecture Series” for students and faculty, which involves getting celebrities to the campus, because of the extremely bad state of a half-kilometre stretch of the road leading to its Joka address.

 Some of the big names, who have come to deliver   for this series in the past include former economic adviser to the government Kaushik Basu, the Dalai Lama, celebrated former IPS officer and now Puducherry governor Kiran Bedi, University of California economics professor emeritus Pranab Bardhan, National Innovation Council chairman and former adviser to the PM, Sam Pitroda, and World Bank country director Onno Ruhl. Snapdeal CEO Kunal Bahl was the last guest for this programme; he came down last November.
 
 “Yes, it is true that the bad road condition is a factor in our decision to suspend this programme as it involves getting some of the biggest names from industry and other fields,” a senior faculty member told TOI on Saturday. “This is why we are going easy with this programme as of now,” he added. “We are planning to write to the KMC as well as to the local police authorities to resolve this issue,” another senior faculty member of the institute said. 
 
 Last year, around this time, eminent economist Kaushik Basu was on the campus to deliver a lecture.
 
 “We usually get high-profile guests, whose opinions matter. We have put everything on hold as we would not like to make them suffer. It also leaves a bad impression of the city and we want to avoid that,” added a faculty member associated with the lecture programme.
 
 Several stretches of the road leading up to the campus have cracked up, with a nearly-half-kilometre stretch from Diamond Park to the Joka tram depot being particularly bad, say students, who cannot skip going to the institute. “We do not have an alternate route to travel. So we are forced to use this stretch at least up to the James Long Sarani-Diamond Harbour Road crossing and then take different routes to reach the central business district. Travel time has increased drastically and there is extreme congestion,” complained a first-year PGDM student from Chennai who recently joined the institute.
 
 “It becomes a nightmare to walk on the stretch leading up to our campus, which we need to do to get basic commodities from local shops,” a faculty member said.
 
 What is giving the IIM-C authorities sleepless nights is the approaching season of summer placements. “Corporates send officials to the campus. Road conditions need to improve immediately. Work on the Metro has added to the problem,” he added.
 
 The state Public Works Department (PWD) is the custodian of D H Road and looks after its maintenance. But officials say they have not been able to address the problem because of the Metro work, going on for four years now.
 
 “We regularly undertake repair of some of the worst stretches before and after the start of monsoon. We have a similar programme for this year as well but it will only be a temporary job,” a KMC roads department engineer said. Mayor Sovan Chatterjee admitted that the condition of a few stretches of D H Road was bad but assured that KMC would take care of those stretches.
 
 
