NAGPUR: The new ‘Maharashtra Public Universities Act, 2016’ is turning out to be a big headache for all universities, and particularly their vice chancellors. As per the Act, every university has around 2,500 members on various bodies, of which the VC would have to nominate about 836.

 The new Act, which came into force from March 1 this year, is more focused on nominations rather than the earlier method of elections. “Out of total 2,576 members on various bodies like Management and Academic councils and  , I will have to nominate over 800. We’ve prepared a complete chart in this regard,” VC SP Kane told TOI.
 
 Some senior academicians have, however, opposed the very concept of nominations to various statutory bodies. They claim that it would end public participation in universities and make VC more powerful than ever. “Since the VC would be nominating a majority of members, it’s obvious that no one would go against him, even if the decision was against students’ or university’s interests,” a former   member told TOI.
 
 The old Maharashtra Universities Act, 1995 focused more on electoral model, where the Senate and Board of Studies (BOS) members were elected through proper elections. Now, their numbers have been significantly reduced in the new Act, with a view to reduce superiority issues between the VC and statutory bodies.
 
 “With reduction in the elected members on all statutory bodies, good debates and discussion that used to take place earlier on various issues would be missed. Now, the nominees wouldn’t dare to raise issues that are against the university administration. It would eventually end the democratic process,” another former member from   said.
 
 As per the new Act, highest nominations would be made on   (RRCs) for PhDs and Board of Studies (BOS) for each subjects. Each   would have five members, of which two would be nominated by the VC, which means for 93 subjects he will nominate 186 members. Similarly, for BOS, there will be 1,581 members for equal number of subjects, of which VC would nominate 558.
 
 The new Senate would have 78 members, Management Council 24 and Academic Council 129. Many new boards have been introduced like Sub-Campuses, University Departments and Interdisciplinary Studies, PG Education in Colleges, Lifelong Learning and Extension, National and International Linkages, and Innovation, Incubation and Enterprise among others.
 
