LUCKNOW: The Khan household spends a lot of time attending to visitors these days. The unusual bit is that most of these guests show up to meet the family's two six-month-old pet rabbits and enquire about their well-being.That's because these are no ordinary rabbits--They've survived 15 days without food and water, and have been at the centre of a court case.

 The rabbits were rescued on July 21 from a salon owned by city-based businessman Shahrukh Khan and which was part of a building sealed by   (LDA) on July 6. “Only a few of my staffers were present in the saloon when the   task force stormed into the building, asked everyone to va cate it, and put an official seal on the entrance. The staff present tried telling the officials that the rabbits had been left in side, but their pleas fell on deaf ears. By the time I reached the spot, the building had been sealed and the LDA officials had left,“ says Shahrukh.
 
 The family went to the LDA office, met the officials who carried out the drive, and explained the issue to them. However, the officials maintained that the building had been checked thoroughly and there was no living being inside. “My 8-year-old son Arhan is too fond of the rabbits. He takes care of them and plays with them nearly all the time. So when he came to know that they had been left inside the sealed building, he was heartbroken. However, we had no option but to wait,“ says Sharukh.
 
 After two days of trying their luck at LDA, the family approached the high court and filed a petition on July 8. The court took cognisance of the matter but asked them to resolve it with the development authority . “The court reverted on July 10, after which we accompanied Sharukh to LDA again. But they refused to listen to anything. In fact, they accused us of coming up with stories to get the sa loon opened informally ,“ says Zeeshan Zahidi, a worker at the salon.
 
 The authority did not act over the next ten days either, and the family lived in anxiety, wondering if the rabbits would be able to survive without food or water for so long.
 
 On July 21, however, one of Sharukh's clients and an animal activ ist Madhu Pandey took the matter in his hands.
 
 “He called the district magistrate and then went to the LDA VC. After hearing the matter, the VC immediately ordered the officials to rescue the rabbits and seal the building again.When we saw them, they were in a pitiable condition. They had to feed on paper to survive. Both of them had become very thin and they were not even moving when we saw them. For a minute I was too scared to touch, thinking they may have succumbed to hunger.But as went close to them, one of them started nibbing softly on my finger, making me heave a sigh of relief. Now they are at my home and given all necessary care and their favourite food.My son doesn't leave them even for a minute,“ says Sharukh.
 
 LDA's executive engineer of the area, VK Gupta said, “The seal could not be broken merely on the insistence of the salon owner. We eventually called the building owner and our senior officials. Everybody needed to be present because we weren't sure of the rabbits were really there.“
 
