HYDERABAD: For many modern Hyderabadis,   is a busy locality with crowded buildings and heavy vehicular traffic. That Masab Tank was a huge water body , which quenched the thirst of people and animals for more than three and a half centuries, may sound strange to youngsters. There is nothing left of this massive artificial lake except for a small pond that is no more than a cess pool with green algal bloom.

 The now extinct Masab (Ma Saheba) Tank stands as the best example of how encroachments and unchecked urbanisation has cut short a prayer, for perennial supply of water.When it was built on October 4, 1624 CE, the royal family ( ) had prayed to the Almighty to keep the lake flushed with fresh pristine water “till the Day of Resurrection“.Everything was okay with the lake until a few decades ago. Today , it exists only in name. Encroachments have shrunk its size by five-thousand fold. The lake's catchment area has also disappeared, except when inundation takes place during heavy monsoons.
 
 Eminent historian   (1618-1707) was very impressed by the water bodies of Hyderabad. He wrote, “If I venture to write my own impression about the lakes and tanks of the city (Hyderabad), or to commend the pleasantness of the climate and grace of the land, or to appreciate the beau ty of the green land or even fertility of the soil, I fail to find the suitable words.“
 
 Syed Ali Asgar  , whose book `Landmarks of the Deccan' is the most quoted work on Hyderabad's history , wrote about inscriptions on the top storeys of the towers on either side of the bund of Masab Tank. Emphasizing the need for preservation of these inscriptions, Bilgrami, who served as officiating director of Hyderabad state archaeology department in 1920s, said they were carved on tablets of polished black stone in Naskh style.
 
 The inscriptions read: “The intentions full of high aspirations, of Her Highness, the source of felicity to the family, of fidelity and chastity , Khanum Agha, daughter of Mir Maqsud Ali Tabataba, is always bent and disposed to meet the requirements of the general public.Consequently , having regard to the ultimate end of affairs and consequences of pursuits, a nice tank had been built, which is situated in the vicinity of the road of  , for the convenience of living beings of various classes. And that a continual blessing be rest till the Resurrection, upon the founder as well as those who have assisted in building of the tank now, in 1034 AH (1624 CE).“
 
 It is not clear where the pillars with the inscriptions lay now. Like the Masab Tank, the stone pillars may too have disappeared into history .
 
