BENGALURU: Commuting short distances by bus will get cheaper, while travelling long distances will get costlier, according to the revised fare structure announced by the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) on Thursday.

 The new fare chart will come into effect from Friday midnight. The rate has been revised downwards in non-air conditioned (AC) buses for 2nd stage (those travelling between 2-4 km) commuters (from Rs 12 to Rs 10). 
 
 Stages are measured every two kilometres. First stage refers to a distance under 2km, 2nd stage is between 2 and 4km, third is between between 4 and 6km and so on.
 
 “People had been complaining about difficulty in giving exact change while commuting. This rationalization of fares should benefit them. The move will benefit close to 25% of the commuters as ridership is very high in the second stage,” said transport minister  .
 
 However, non-AC bus fares have been raised by Rs 1 at the 3rd, 6th and 8th stages. The fare for the 1st stage will remain Rs 5.
 
 For AC buses, fares have been decreased by Rs 5 at the 1st, 3rd, 4th and 14th stages. At the same time, fares have been increased by Rs 5 at the 10th, 16th, 18th, 19th and 22nd stages. Since fares have been decreased by Rs 5 for 4 stages and hiked by Rs 5 for 5 stages for AC buses, the overall fare will be Rs 5 higher now than before.
 
 The BMTC, though, has said that this move would benefit approximately 30% of the commuters as there is higher ridership in AC buses for the initial stages than for later stages. According to BMTC, the change will result in revenue dip of Rs 1.5 to Rs 3 lakh per day.
 
 Rates for monthly and daily passes haven’t been touched. Also, the fares of the more expensive   airport buses haven’t been changed either. However,  , managing director, BMTC said that the corporation would soon be coming out with promotional schemes for this fleet as well.
 
 K Naresh, who works as a parcel delivery boy at an office in the central business district, said: “I have a monthly bus pass that costs Rs 1,050. Since I travel over 20 km in a non-AC bus, this move doesn’t impact me.”
 
 The BMTC will be adding 1,658 new buses to its fleet by July and will scrap 1,400-1,600 of the old buses.
 
 
