BHOPAL: An Uzbek girl, who was accompanying a businessman friend on his trip to Bhopal, was allegedly thrown out by him from a car late Saturday night. She was accompanied by another friend, who was with her at the time of incident. Police said girls didn’t file a complaint against the businessman.

 It was alleged that the girl, Christina Maseeh, 28, was thrown out of the car. She had gone to a pub with friends and the businessman, sources said. However, police informed Christina was found on the middle of a road near   hotel in New Market by a police officer. Seeing her condition, Vyas took the girl to JP Hospital. She was in an inebriated state and had an injury on hand.
 
 Police said Christina and her friend Malika Shahnooz came down from Delhi to meet his friend  , a resident of Gujarat. Christina and Deepesh knew each other for last eight months.She was staying with her freind Shahnooz in Crown Palace hotel and went out with Deepesh and his two friends Kishan and Jaykishan to roam around the city. They first went to  . After spending two hours there, they went to a pub in a mall where Christina and Deepesh got into an arguement. She also got a cut over her hand from a broken glass.
 
 Later, Christina and Malika were dropped by friends of Deepesh, who decided to staty back at the hotel. After reaching hotel, Malika got out of the car, but Christina refused to come out. She was insisting on meeting Deepesh after which she was forced to leave the car. Christina didn’t go inside hotel and was sitting on the road outside hotel around 1 am in night.
 
 However, SP (South)   said, “The girl was not thrown out of the car. They were dropped by Deepesh and his friends to their hotel. One of girls was lying in an inebriated state on road and was helped by a senior police officer, who took her to the hospital.”
 
 Bahuguna told girls are studying in Delhi and came to Bhopal to meet Deepesh, who is a friend of Christina. They didn’t want to file a complaint. However, police seized the vehicle and questioning Deepesh and his friends.
 
