GURUGRAM: A 42-year-old trainee executive with a BPO firm jumped to death from the 7th floor of her office building on Sohna road in Sector 48 on Tuesday. Police said Pooja Vardhan, mother of a 16-year-old daughter, who worked with  , did not leave behind any suicide note. But, her family members claimed she was suffering from depression for some time. 

 Preliminary probe revealed that Pooja, whose office was on the 7th floor of Bestech business tower, was strolling near the staircase during the lunch break around 1.10pm and suddenly jumpeddown the starirwell. Within moment, she was lying in a pool of blood on the ground floor.
 
 Pooja, originally from Patna, used to live with her husband Raj Vardhan and daughter in DLF-III area. Her husband Raj also works with Convergys and his office is on the 4th floor of the same building, which houses a number of big offices. She had joined the company as a trainee executive over a month ago.
 
 As soon as Pooja landed on the ground floor with a massive thud, other employees and security guards raised an alarm, resulting in a chaos on the Bestech premises. Immediately, the Convergys management and her husband were informed about the incident. She was rushed to Park hospital, where she succumbed to her injuries soon after.
 
 Subsequently, a police team from Badshahpur police station reached the spot and questioned security guards and other eyewitnesses. The police also watched the CCTV footage, which showed her going alone towards the seventh floor’s stairs. Bereaved husband Raj told the police that his was a happy family and he had no idea as to what prompted his wife to take this extreme step. Pooja’s brother, mother and daughter, who also reached the hospital on hearing the news, appeared equally clueless.
 
 “It appears she committed suicide due to depression. Her relatives claimed there was no problem or bickering in the family. We haven’t recovered any suicide note,” said inspector Rajender Kumar, SHO, Badshahpur. 
 
 
