Pune: ‘Kaasav’, a Marathi movie on how to deal with depression, pegged back Bollywood blockbuster ‘Dangal’ to be adjudged best feature film at the 64th   on Friday.

 Directed by Pune-based Sumitra Bhave and Sunil Sukthankar, ‘Kaasav’ (which means turtle) was shot in the picturesque Konkan region of Maharashtra with actors   and Irawati Harshe in the lead roles. In the citation by the National Film Awards, ‘Kaasav’ was appreciated for the perfect blend of environmental and personal behaviour in a poignant and beautiful cinematic way.
 
 Marathi films stole the show yet again, grabbing eight awards including for best director, best editor and best costume designer. This was the eighth honour for Bhave and Sukthankar for their films so far, but their first ‘Swarna Kamal’ (Golden Lotus) which is given as part of the National Film Awards. The director and producer would get Rs 2.5 lakh each.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Bhave said, “Kaasav is a simple, silent and steady film, exactly the opposite of Dangal. There is nothing dramatic in the film; it is an overall reflection of society. It is about a turtle going into a shell after an attack, but re-emerging slowly and cautiously. A depressed person goes through a similar experience. The film advocates how those around depressed people should take it easy and give them their space to come out free.”
 
 Sukthankar said the idea for the movie was pitched by actor and co-producer Mohan Agashe. He said Agashe raised the point of increasing depression among the youth.
 
 Rajesh Mapuskar bagged a ‘Swarna Kamal’ for best director for the Marathi film ‘Ventilator’, which features filmmaker Ashutosh Gowariker in the lead role. The film, an entertaining family drama, was released in November last year. Rameshwar and Alok De won awards for editing and re-recording of the final mixed track respectively for the film.
 
 Mapuskar told TOI, “A national award for my first attempt as a director has left me speechless. It’s like a dream come true and much credit must go to producers Priyanka and Madhu Chopra.”
 
 Sachin Lovalekar bagged the award for best costume designer for the Marathi film ‘Cycle’. He said, “I have been working in the industry for the past 13 years and this is my first national award. It’s surreal right now and the news is yet to sink in. I was not expecting the award though ‘Cycle’ has definitely been one of my most satisfying works. It feels wonderful to have your work acknowledged.”
 
 Lovalekar started off with Marathi film ‘Dombivli Fast’ and has been a designer for a number of acclaimed films including ‘Paan Singh Tomar’, ‘Court’, ‘Killa’ and ‘Mumbai Meri Jaan’.
 
 ‘Dashakriya’ bags three awards
 
 ‘Dashakriya’, the story of a resourceful and hardworking young boy named Bhanudas, bagged awards for best Marathi film, best adapted screenplay writer and best supporting actor. Film director Sandeep Bhalchandra Patil said, “Dashakriya portrays the dreadful picture of contemporary society, while attacking the disparity, inequality and selfish behaviour of individuals and society as a whole.”
 
 Sanjay Patil, who adapted the screenplay from the eponymous Marathi novel written by Baba Bhand, bagged the best adapted screenplay writer award. The director of the state directorate of cultural affairs, Patil had previously written the screenplay for ‘Jogwa, another national award-winning film. “Jogwa gave my writing career a very good start. It is a priceless moment to win the national award,” he said.
 
 Veteran actor  , who got the best supporting actor award, said, “I am honoured to receive the nation’s highest award. It was a big surprise for me and I am happy it came for a Marathi film.” Joshi has worked in Bollywood films and has also been active in Gujarati cinema in all three mediums — films, theatre and television.
 
 FTII film ‘Kalpvriksha’ gets best cinematography award
 
 Electronic cinematography student Alpesh Nagar bagged the prestigious   for best cinematography for ‘Kalpvriksha’, produced by the Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) here, in the non-feature film category. Directed by Abhijeet Khuman, the film presents the struggle of a girl who goes on a journey to find the mythical ancient tree ‘kalpvriksha’, which is said to grant one’s wishes.
 
 
