The gruesome murder of a seven-year-old boy at   in   earlier this month, has been more than a wake-up call for schools across the country. On its part, Pune’s school association has come up with a seven point agenda to ensure safety of students. “Most schools have closed circuit cameras, and the seven point agenda insists on strict monitoring of   feed,” says Rajendra Singh, secretary, Independent English School Association (IESA). But not all schools have the manpower to continuously monitor CCTV feed. For this, Rajendra says, “If a school is short- staffed, then the CCTV feed can be kept in an open place where there is continuous footfall like an office room or common area, so people passing through the stretch can monitor it.” Another point that the association has added is that there can be surprise visits by members of the school’s Parent-Teacher Association ( ). This can be vital in ensuring that staff and school 
authorities are always vigil.
 
 However according to some schools, parents are not cooperative about various initiatives. Ashok Vikhe Patil, chairman, Vikhe Patil Memorial School, says, “Parents opt for private transportation citing reason like school bus fees being high.” Some schools also expressed concerns that the interaction between parents and teachers reduces once their wards reach class five. Murtuza Poonawalla, a parent, says, “Yes there is less interaction after standard five because parents think that the child has grown up. Till standard four, the child is considered small and parents take time to interact with teachers.” But regards choosing private transportation, he says that it is because school transportation does not cover home pick up and drop at all locations, forcing parents living in such localities to choose private transport options.
 
  
 Another important factor that needs to be taken into consideration, is that students also interact with non-teaching staff like drivers, attendants and housekeeping staff on a daily basis. With this in mind,   of the USK foundation says that non-teaching staff too need to be sensitised. “School children call them kaka, so they should understand the relation and behave like that. We have planned to conduct special workshops for these staff,” says Usha, whose foundation runs Good Touch Bad Touch workshops at all schools run by government and private schools across the city.
 
 
 City police conducted a meeting with schools recently, stressing on various aspects regarding the security of students. Rashmi Shukla, Commissioner of Police, stressed on strict monitoring of the CCTV feed. Along with it, the police asked schools for police verification of teaching and non-teaching staff and their psychological tests as well. The department also stressed on installation of CCTVs and GPS in school transport vehicles.
 
 It is the responsibility of the parents and other bodies like police and RTO to do their jobs. Schools should have separate washrooms for non-teaching staff, bus attendants and drivers. They spend hours in school and have to use THE students’ washrooms, making children more vulnerable. — Ashok Vikhe Patil, chairman, Vikhe Patil Memorial School
 
