MUMBAI: With 6173 runs in 185 One-day Internationals, at an average of 51.87, Indian women's national team captain   is no less a   in her fraternity. Simply for the fact that she manages to put the likes of Charlotte Edwards, Belinda Clark,   and   behind in a list of top rungetters in the 50-over format, the 34-year-old deserves her own 'master blaster' crown.

 It's no surprise then that the coach, who Tendulkar has trusted his own son Arjun with, has also been Mithali's closest confidante, mentor, guide and trainer in the last decade. Meet  , a Level Three coach from the  's (NCA) first batch that passed out close to 14 years ago.
 
 On a road less travelled, as Mithali went about grappling with a spate of mood swings, bad form and unending demand to stay at the top of her game and fitness from time to time, Gaikwad towed her all along, helping rid herself from entertaining thoughts of quitting the game, encouraging her to keep going back to the drawing board, giving her confidence when she decided to go back to square one begin afresh.
 
 "The question was never about what Mithali was capable of," says the shy Gaikwad, absolutely unwilling to take any credit whatsoever in having worked with the Team India skipper. "It was about just helping her go about what she wanted to do. It's her hard work paying off."
 
 Apart from being a Level 3 NCA coach, Gaikwad ­ who hails from Pune ­ has done the same Level 3 coaching at Cricket Australia's Centre of Excellence in Brisbane too. That aside, he holds a PhD in biomechanics, cricket bowling and performance psychology ­ privileges that he's not very vocal about. It is for these reasons that Tendulkar, a man very particular about who he chooses to work with, chose 40-year-old to work with his son.
 
 "She packed her bags and came over to Pune. We sat down and worked on a list that we needed to go about with. From there, we would head to Chennai, where better facilities were on offer.
 
 The World Cup was two years away and she wanted to be ready in time," he says of Mithali. "She had trust in me primarily because I've worked closely with the national women's team in 2005 and 2008."
 
 After setbacks in the 2013 ICC World Cup and the 2014 Women's World T20 ­ in which she was the top run-getter ­ Mithali began to feel that her cricket, going further, was in need of a certain direction. "Multiple for mats lead to multiple demands and she was very well capable of it. What was needed was to step back and look at things from the outside. That is when we decided it was time to switch to domestic cricket," says Gaikwad.
 
 The duo went about working on her strokeplay ­ the sweep and pull.
 
 Then came the mental preparation, "where she was determined to over come past setbacks," he says.
 
 Gaikwad is waiting for Mithali to return with the trophy. "We can then start working on other aspects.
 
 There's more work to do," he says matter of fact.
 
