PATNA: They had visited temples and other places of worship several times in their prime to be blessed with sons. But when these elderly people needed them the most, their sons kicked them out of their own homes to fend for themselves. Many of them broke down while telling their tales to Patna DM   at a meeting called by him on Wednesday to discuss the problems the elderly citizens of the district were suffering from. The members of the elderly citizens’ club and other organizations helping such old people were also present there.

 While talking about their sufferings, some of them revealed how they were abused by their own children and thrown out of their own houses without any source of income to survive. They also told about the difficulty in availing pension amount.
 
 The 95-year-old Girdhari   was once the owner of a house in Patna as well as in Delhi with a flourishing business. Now, he is living with his daughter at a rented accommodation in  . Though the father of three sons and owner of properties worth Rs8 crore, Bhutani is penniless now. His sons have not only denied him any financial help, they kicked him out of his own house in S P Verma Road area and run a private hostel in the building. 
 
 The same was the ordeal of retired DSP B P Sharma, who told the DM how his elder son had locked a large portion of his house at Kankarbagh to deny him any earning from rent. His son, a DGM rank officer, stays with his family at some other place.
 
 The 78-year-old Naunihal Singh told the DM how he had been running from one department to another to get a tree cut as it had damaged the boundary wall of his house. “I live with my wife Ravindra Kaur at Badar Ghat (Gulzarbagh). I wrote a letter to the forest department. I was told to go to the public works department, then to urban development and housing department and now the file is with Patna Municipal Corporation. I have been running from pillar to post for the last more than a year, but the end result is zero,” the septuagenarian said.
 
 The DM also told about an old woman who was left by her family members outside the Mahavir temple and forced to beg. Later, she was taken to an old age home by the district administration. “It is unfortunate that parents who often run to temple for seeking God’s blessings for their children are left outside that temple for begging,” said Agarwal.
 
 A study, titled ‘Human Rights of Elderly in India: A critical Reflection on Social Development’, was conducted by   in 2015. Altogether 5,000 elderly people across India were interviewed and it was found that more than two-thirds of them were neglected by their family members while one third of them claimed to have suffered physical or verbal abuse at the hands of their children. Those residing in urban areas were the worst sufferers. 
 
