Piyush, Sarika,   and other family members are happy that they will be able to help Madhuri. 

 Madhuri is happy that Deepika is helping them,   goes to drop Deepika to her place. 
 
 Deepika asks Piyush if he is still angry with her. Piyush says rather he is feeling sorry for being so rude and he apologizes to her. He tells her that she is indeed a good person who helped a friend. 
 
 Deepika helps Piyush start the scooter and they leave for her house. Deepika thinks that Piyush loves her and that he wants to say something to her. The two share a sweet moment. 
 
 Next morning, Deepika and her family along with Piyush's younger siblings and Sarika start helping Madhuri with her work. Madhuri is able to monitor the work done over phone via video conferencing. 
 
 Bua tries to spy on Madhuri but this is when Anshul takes her away. 
 
 Deepika's father brings sweets for all and everyone is happy for having completed the work successfully. 
 
 Piyush also thanks Sarika for having helped his mother fulfill her dream. 
 
 Piyush and Deepika reach the exhibition office with their payment. The manager tells them that the stalls of Rs 10,000 have been taken by one man and that now they will have to pay Rs 50,000 to get a new stall. 
 
 
  
 Ramakanth misbehaves with Deepika, Piyush gets angry and warns him of not saying anything against his mother. Ramakant says he will not let Madhuri have her stall in the exhibition. 
 
 Deepika says that they will make arrangements of Rs 50,000 for the stall and manager gives them a deadline of 7 pm till next day. 
 
 Piyush's mother calls him asking about the stall but he doesn't tell her anything about what all happened at the office. 
 
 Deepika tries to cheer Piyush and says they will be able to arrange money for the payment of stall. 
 
 Piyush is worried thinking about where to get the money from and this is when a man comes to Piyush's home with his bua's bangles which she had given for polish. 
 
 He thinks this is how he will ‘be able to arrange the money needed for his mother to set up stall. 
 
