Visakhapatnam: Raksha Bandhan has always been a special day for siblings and novelty stores across the port city have geared up to provide the latest varieties of rakhis to their customers. 

 Shop owners said that they are witnessing a changing trend as youngsters have made a comeback to the stores instead of buying and sending rakhis online. From silver, zardosi rakhis to personalised and chocolate rakhis, youngsters seem to pick up the hatke type of rakhis for their brothers. Even as the online platform offers a wide range of rakhis, most of the youngsters opined that they wish to add that personal touch which cannot be done online.
 
 Preksha Dassani, a city-based lecturer whose brother resides in another city, said, “It is our tradition to send rakhis, roli-chawal along with a pack of sweets. Selecting something personally for my loved ones makes me feel closer to them than buying it online. Moreover, instead of cards I write a letter to him which I send along with the  .”
 
 Vaishalli Kulkarni, an avid biker from the city, said, “Rakhi is a special bond that you share with your brother and hence I always like to spend some time in selecting and packing them with love. I ensure that the rakhis are of good quality with a strong threads while buying them. Online shopping does not have that ingredient of love and care, neither does it allow us to check the quality of it.”
 
 Selecting a minion rakhi at one of the novelty story, Sindhura, a Class VI student, said, “The prices are too high in online stores. A simple rakhi costs more than Rs 150 while the same is available at Rs 50 in the stores. Along with the rakhi, I can also add a small gift and a chocolate in the same price range and send a combo pack myself.”
 
 “In the past few years, we were disappointed as our rakhi sales plummeted because online sales shot up. However, this year we are seeing a different trend and we hope to make some profits. Offers and complimentary gifts are also being given to customers,” said the proprietor of a novelty store in Siripuram.
 
 Rakhis can also be send through posts as the postal department is providing special envelopes for the occasion.
 
 
