GUWAHATI: Special forces of the   swooped down on   (Khaplang) camps near the India-Myanmar border in Nagaland’s Mon district on Wednesday. The   said “heavy casualties (were) reportedly inflicted on NSCN (K).”

 The operation, by commandos of the special forces and   personnel who man the border, took place at 4.45am and lasted nearly three hours. Later, the Army, in a statement, said, “A column of the Indian Army while operating along the India-Myanmar border was fired upon by unidentified insurgents.” Countering the Army statement, NSCN (K) senior leader Isac Sumi posted on social media, “According to report from the spot... so far 3 Indian soldiers have been killed and an unconfirmed number injured but no casualty or injury on the Naga Army.” Soon came the Army rebuttal, saying, “Own troops reacted swiftly and brought down heavy retaliatory fire on the insurgents. Thereafter, the insurgents broke contact and fled the spot. There were no casualty to own troops.”
 
 Responding to Sumi’s claim that the gunfight took place near the “makeshift camp on the outskirts of Langkhu village located inside Myanmar-occupied Naga area,10-15 km away from the India-Myanmar border”, the Army stated, “It is reiterated that no trans-border operations have been carried out.” Langkhu village, under Lahe township, is under NSCN (K)’s control.
 
 A source said the operation was planned at least eight months ago. This is the third such pre-planned attack on the Naga outfit, which comprises Burmese and Indian Nagas and is based in the northern Lahe and Nanyun townships in Sagaing region of the neighbouring country.
 
 After the death of the outfit’s chairman, Shangwang Shanyung Khaplang, a Burmese Hemi Naga, in June, the leadership of the group is in the hands of an Indian Naga, Khago Konyak, for the first time.
 
 The special forces of Indian Army had made the first surgical strike on the Khaplang faction on June 10, 2015 from the Manipur side of the international border and then in August 20 last year in Mon district. On Sunday, Zeliang had appealed to the visiting Myanmarese delegation — led by U Sai Kyaw Zaw, minister of Myanmar’s ethnic affairs,   — to work together towards bringing about a ceasefire between NSCN (K), the Indian government and Myanmar so that there could be permanent peace between the two countries. The NSCN (K) had unilaterally abrogated a 14-year ceasefire with Indian government in 2015. Its ceasefire with Myanmar, signed in 2012, is still in operation.
 
