KOLKATA:  , the   of   who went missing on February 2, surfaced at   on Monday and was brought to  , where a missing complaint had been lodged by his family soon after his disappearance.

 On Sunday night, Sushil had contacted a few of his JU friends, who informed the police. Sushil claimed he was staying with a friend in Belda for the past 25 days.
 
 The police, however, have decided to interrogate him further. “We are questioning Sushil Mandi. We had to wait in plain clothes at Mecheda station in order to intercept him. There are some major gaps in his claims,“ JCP (Crime) Vishal Garg said.
 
 Sushil went missing soon after being accused of molesting a girl during a protest on the campus and then being shamed on social media.His elder brother, Haradhan Mandi, had claimed caste prejudice, hatred and contempt were responsible for Sushil's disappearance. Haradhan Mandi had filed an FIR aga inst the girl and four members of United Student's Democratic Front (USDF) under different sections pertaining to defamation, abduction and the SC ST (prevention of atrocities) Act.
 
 Sushil claimed on Monday that the “mental torture“ had become too difficult to bear and so he had decided to leave Kolkata. “Earlier, my name was mentioned in the FIR lodged by BJP after violence on the campus during the screening of `Buddha In a Traffic Jam'. I was made a soft target because of my caste. This time again, I was targeted because of my tribal background.I wasn't even allowed to give my views on the issue. It was very humiliating,“ he said.
 
 Sushil insisted the repeated barbs on social media had taken a toll on him.“How much can a person take? All this was happening during Saraswati Puja. I was all alone and couldn't deal with the humiliation. That's when I decided to leave Kolkata,“ he said.
 
 Back at the Rojipur village, Sushil's elderly parents -Shibu and Phulmani Mandi -are anxious to meet their son. “I spoke to Sushil over phone. We were both on the verge of tears. I told him I wanted to rush to Kolkata to meet him, but my brother insis ted that he will first clear the formalities at Jadavpur police station first,“ Haradhan said.
 
 The slander, Haradhan insisted, had taken a toll on the whole family . “Our parents want him to quit studies and return home.But I want him to continue with his education. He is a self-made person. He has come this far only because of his merit and determination. It's important to ensure no Adivasi student has to face this kind of a discrimination. The guilty must be punished,“ Haradhan insisted.
 
 Haradhan's daughter, Asha, is also a student of Jadavpur University . “I'm a third-year student of philosophy at JU. It was a very traumatic period when my uncle went missing. We are so relieved that he is back,“ Asha said, waiting outside the Jadavpur police station to meet Sushil.
 
 
