PATNA: City schools have welcomed the   ( ) proposal to conduct annual examination of Class X and XII in two shifts. Earlier, the board was planning to conduct the exams from February owing to the late declaration of results this year and to ensure error-free evaluation.

 At present, CBSE Class X and XII exams are conducted in one shift. Due to state assembly elections, which take place in one or the other state almost every year, the exams last as long as 45 days and teachers get very little time to evaluate the answer sheets and declare the results on time. This year, assembly elections were held in five states.
 
 “It is not possible for the schools to complete the syllabus on time if the exams are conducted in February. Our time table is pre-planned and any changes will disrupt the schedule. It is a wise decision to take Class X and XII exams on the same day in two shifts,” said Rajiv Ranjan, vice-principal of Kendriya Vidyalaya, Kankarbagh.
 
 Senior   teacher   said there are a number of subjects in Class X and XII, including additional and optional ones. “In order to conduct both the annual exams of Class X and XII (science, commerce and arts stream), the board sometimes gives 8-10 days gaps between two papers. Exams in two shifts will increase the burden a little bit on teachers, but the exams will not extend to two months. The teachers will also get ample time to evaluate the answer sheets,” she said.
 
 However, some school authorities are not happy with the board’s decision. Rajiv Ranjan Sinha, principal of Baldwin Academy, said doing invigilation for eight hours would be hectic for the teachers. “The annual exams are important for the students and it should be carried out with precaution. Continuous invigilation will get the teachers tired,” he said.
 
 “The decision is still at the initial stages. The board will consult all the stakeholders before going ahead with the decision, which aims at giving teachers more time to check answer papers thoroughly and avoid mistakes,” said CBSE personal relations officer Rama Sharma.
 
 
