  : The state government is struggling to sell the attached properties of the   worth Rs 63.64 crore. 

 A special court, designated to deal with chit fund scam-related cases, in February 2015 had allowed the government to conduct public auction of attached properties of Rose Valley and distribute the sale proceeds among investors duped by the firm.
 
  It was first of its kind order under the Orissa Protection of Interests of Depositors Act, 2011(OPID) and had rekindled hope among investors.
 
 But even after two years, the duped investors are yet to get any benefit as government has not managed to find any buyers for the properties of the firm. The attached properties of the Kolkata- based Rose Valley group included land and flats in Bhubaneswar and   estimated to be worth Rs 11 crore, bank deposits of Rs 52.17 crore and Rs 47 lakh in cash. 
 
 At least Rs 48 crore of the company deposited in 28 banks accounts in Odisha and Kolkata have been taken possession of and transferred to the state government accounts, said former additional district magistrate (Cuttack) B B Das.
 
 The additional district magistrate (Cuttack), who is the competent authority for public auction and confiscation of the attached properties under OPID Act, in May 4 last year had conducted online auction of few properties of Rose Valley. 
 
 In the first phase, four flats owned by the firm in an apartment in Bhubaneswar and three land plots in   tehsil in Balasore district were auctioned through web portal of government-owned MSTC. The base price of the four flats were set at Rs 88.25 lakh, Rs 81.95 lakh, Rs 98.75 lakh and Rs 1.10 crore respectively while the base price of the three land plots measuring 45 decimel was set at Rs 7.31 lakh. But not a single bidder had expressed interest in the properties. 
 
 The ADM organized online auction for a second time on May 31 last year, but that attempt also failed to attract any buyers.
 
 Assuming that due to high base prices people are not interested in the properties, the government is now considering revising the base prices. However, officials have claimed that people don't want to risk their money by buying properties of chit fund companies. Along with Rose Valley, online auction of three more chit fund companies were conducted. But the response of bidders was nil. "It seems people are worried about the litigations related to these chit fund companies," said an official.
 
 Officials claimed that after revision of base prices of the properties the further course of action will be decided. "At present, we are busy with preparations of panchayat elections. After its completion, I will look into the matter," said ADM (revenue) Raghuram Iyer. 
 
 
