Radhika Pandit, who took a six-month break following her wedding to  , has just signed her next film, which will go on floors in September. The actress shares that although she had been receiving plum offers during her time off from work, she was keen to embark on a project that would showcase her histrionic skills — an aspect that she has always maintained ever since she forayed into films. 
“I wanted a subject that was not going to be slotted as female-oriented, as is the norm when the leading lady is married. The subject had to be something that I’d take up regardless of my personal life. And I’m glad that the industry viewed me as an independent actor and didn’t peg my marital status to it while approaching me with projects,” she says. 
 The film that she has giving her nod to is a romcom to be helmed by Mani Ratnam’s assistant Priya, which will star   as her leading man. The film will have   Jayaraman as cinematographer. “In fact, my friends recently observed that probably I’m the only recent actor to have signed a film so quickly after marriage. It’s true, in reality, I didn’t have anyone to look up to as no actor had made such a quick return to acting after marriage. I also hope that my move breaks the jinx of married heroines being cast only in female-oriented films. My in-laws, parents and husband are equally elated. I couldn’t have asked for more,” wraps up Radhika. 
 
 This isn’t Radhika’s ‘comeback’: Yash
 Sandalwood Star Yash’s jubilation following his wife’s announcement is clearly palpable in his voice. “I’m happy for Radhika, but please don’t call it her comeback. She had taken a six-month break after we got married and deservedly so; she has worked hard for all these years. Even I took a break after our wedding and embarked on KGF recently. Why wasn’t the film called my comeback? Why is that used only in the case of heroines? Such hypocritical and patriarchal treatment towards our women has to stop. I hope Radhika’s move encourages more heroines to come forward and act soon after tying the knot,” he says.
 
