THRISSUR: The   and Research Centre (NCERC), Pambady, which was closed about 40 days ago after protests broke out following the death of engineering student Jishnu Pranoy, will be reopened on Friday.

 The decision was taken at a meeting convened by   on Wednesday. The meeting was attended by the  , parents, teachers and the college management.
 
 The collector said a consensus was arrived at the meeting to ensure that all the five ac cused in the case relating to Jishnu's death, including P Krishna Das, chairman and managing trustee of the Nehru College of Educational and Charitable Trust,   and PRO Sanjith Viswanathan, will not enter the campus till the investigations are completed. Krishakuamar, the vice chairman of the trust and Krishna Das's brother will manage the affairs of the college during the period. District SP (rural) N Vijaya kumar assured the students that all out efforts would be made for the early arrest of all the accused. The police has been claiming that all the accused were absconding.
 
 The representatives of the college management assured that no disciplinary action would be taken against the students who had participated in the agitations. The issues relating to the granting of attendance to the students for the entire period when the college was closed will be raised at the Calicut University. The teach ers have agreed to complete teaching the syllabus by ar ranging special classes on Sat urdays and Sundays.
 
 Steps will be taken to ush er in transparency in granting of internal marks and the stu dents will be given seven work ing days to register their com plaints. The PTA will be recon stituted in a democratic and transparent manner. Till now, the management used to se lect the committee members.
 
 The management has also agreed to give its permission to form a students' union from the next academic year. A 15member coordination committee comprising various students' union representatives will be formed this year.
 
 A complaint redress cell will also be set up in the college.A peace committee, with Chelakkara MLA U R Pradeep as its head, will be formed at the college. Additional district magistrate (ADM) C K Ananthakrishnan will oversee the implementation of the various agreements arrived at the meeting.
 
