NEW DELHI: The recent   notification is a “death knell for planned urban areas”, said resident welfare associations (RWAs) in Delhi. While the number of municipal wards in planned areas has come down, it has gone up in unplanned areas. Civil society members and RWAs are planning to move court to rectify this “unfair” decision.

 The three corporations aren’t directly responsible for development work in slums and authorised colonies. But the population-based delimitation process has led to more wards in assembly constituencies with such areas.
 
 “Honest taxpayers and law-abiding citizens will suffer as the corporations will have more representatives from unplanned areas,” said Rajiv Kakria, social activist and a resident of Greater Kailash-I. “Representatives of these areas will now make policy for the planned areas. Moreover, the issue of unauthorised colonies is sub judice,” he added.
 
 The number of wards has been decreased to three in assembly constituencies like GK, Kalkaji, Hari Nagar, Tilak Nagar and RK Puram as the size of a ward has increased, said RWA members. The wards in planned areas will cover large geographical areas but won’t have more funds for longer road network, larger parks, streetlights and number of sanitation staff. “The councillors will now get another excuse not to work,” said Neeraj Gupta, president of H-Block in New Rajinder Nagar.
 
 Civil society members said political parties would ignore planned areas. “Downturn of democracy will start from the capital. The situation is going to worsen as representatives from planned areas will have no say. Mayors, chairpersons of committees will mostly be councillors from unplanned areas,” said Anil Sood, honorary president of CHETNA, an NGO. “We are exploring the legal option,” he added. 
 
 They claimed that the exercise should have taken into consideration factors like geographical spread, pollution, tax collection and infrastructure requirement. “Democracy doesn’t mean majoritarianism. If the same formula were to be applied in Assam, West Bengal and Bihar, many high-density areas would get many more MLAs. If it’s not acceptable there, why should it be done here?” asked Kakria.
 
 RWAs said their objections were not even considered by the election commission. “Many RWAs had written to election commission. The main problem will be funds. Requirement for essential services is more in planned colonies,” said  , general secretary of Delhi RWA Joint Front and general secretary of   RWA.
 
 
