NEW DELHI: The 
  on the Indian side of the Line of Control in Jammu & Kashmir, while escalating India-Pakistan tensions, once again serves to underline the Pakistan military's role as the primary destabilising force in  . 

 Pakistan army's action demonstrates the reach and control of the deep state and how its reckless acts repeatedly imperil peace in the region and tar Pakistan as an international terror junction.
 
 Despite its interventions spelling repeated setbacks for Pakistan, the army has been single-mindedly motivated by its aim of hobbling its larger neighbour's economic and political rise at all costs.
 
 The strategic aims of the Pakistan army are not limited to a territorial dispute with India over Jammu & Kashmir as it looks to challenge India across several fronts as it sees economic clout inevitably translating into a wider military gap between the two countries.
 
 The spike in tensions along the LoC are a useful means of deflating some of the Modi government's feel good post BJP's wins in important assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand and its success in legislating reforms like the Goods and Services Tax.
 
 The conflict reminds domestic opinion in India and abroad that the country 
  even as violent protests, fuelled by radical elements, thwarts attempts to hold bye-elections in Kashmir.
 
 Pakistan army has little to show for decades of conflict with India despite sponsoring hundreds of terror incidents through its proxies. India's political and cultural unity has grown, reinforced by a democratic tradition that has struck deep roots despite a contested and often divisive political system.
 
 On the other hand, its policies of rearing jihadi outfits in its backyard is now posing a serious internal challenge to Pakistani society as operations like the ongoing Radd-ul-Fasad operation demonstrate. 
 
 The latest anti-terror operation, however, ignores anti-India groups like   and Lashkar-e-Taiba, even as it is clear that differentiating between terror outfits cannot benefit Pakistan in the long run.
 
 With PM   handicapped by a court-ordered probe into his 
  , the Pakistan army is calling the shots. The supreme court, often known for its political actions, has even made sure that there are two army representatives in the probe panel.
 
 The Pakistan army chooses not to recognise the inherent dangers of provoking a government that has already shown that it is not ready to buy the view that  's nuclear weapons deter military reprisals. It might well run the risk of believing its own propaganda and subjecting Pakistan to further humiliation.
 
 
