The approval given to comprehensive sewage system, including rejuvenation of Pora, Pili and Nag river, at an estimated cost of Rs1,870.33 crore by chief minister Devendra Fadnavis has once again raised hope for the health and vigour of these water bodies. But environmental activist, conservationist, and architect Pradyumna Sahasrabhojanee, who was given charge of Nag River when a plan had to be given to National River Conservation department in 1998, tells TOI that inherent flaws in the project will impact efficiency of these initiatives.

 Q. How appropriate are these initiatives in rejuvenating the Nag River?
 
 A. The effectivity and intention are doubtful. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is only looking at what flows from the commodes and basins of our homes. There is this serious issue of treating the toxic and carcinogenic substances which are released through toothpastes, shampoos, soaps, detergents and medicines which we consume, which is not even on the agenda when they speak of sewage treatment. Connecting sewage lines of the city with trunk lines will put water in anaerobic conditions and will prevent it from getting sunlight and oxygen and pollute it further.
 
 Q. Why do you say that the intention is doubtful?
 
 A. This plan does not benefit the rivers but serves vested corporate interest. In fact, it is a novel way in which city administration and industrial lobby have joined hands to divert water from irrigation to industry, contaminate the soil with toxic waste all in the name of pollution control. NMC is twisting the policy for water usage and is drying up the rivers. Power plants would have had to buy so much water at an exorbitant rate.
 
 Q. You are saying that this plan will not help the water bodies?
 
 A. The water flowing along Pench and Kanhan is drained into Nagpur and NMC says they will be doubling the supply in future. All this water is actually coming from the tribal and forest areas of Madhya Pradesh. Water priorities move from domestic to agriculture and to industry and finally eco regeneration. Now, these priorities have changed. The water is brought to the city and will be supplied to power plants. This is not treatment but vaporization of water and the pollutants will go into the soil in adjoining rural areas.
 
 Q. Can your claim be quantified?
 
 A. We get 750 MLD from Pench and Kanhan and various dams and 650 MLD is sewage generated water which needs to be treated every day. Till very recently, Nagpur had one 100 MLD STP which the authorities were claiming worked at 80% capacity. Last year, it was announced that NMC will treat a larger amount of water for which a 130 MLD STP with new Sequential Batch Reactors (SBR) is being constructed at a fast pace and the existing one of 100 MLD along with another of same capacity will be upgraded to SBR technology. This means water will be treated to a level which can be used by power plants like Mahagenco. 150 MLD will go to NTPC and 50 MLD to Khaperkheda.
 
 Q. How will all this impact Nag River?
 
 A. If NMC is going to treat water at the STP constructed at the end of the city then they are ensuring that either the Nag River remains polluted or runs dry. The sewage treatment has to be from the ridge to the valley. Standing in the middle to treat water is meaningless as pollutants will keep flowing in. STPs are supposed to be built at the downstream edge of the city. Nagpur has already started growing in the catchment areas of Vena, Kolar and Kanhan rivers where no STPs are proposed.
 
 Q. What are the inherent flaws of this plan?
 
 A. These kind of proposals have not worked anywhere in the country even with double the expenses. Even if 100 MLD of polluted water flows out, it will impact the soil cover and lives of people downstream as river Nag meets Kanhan which meets Wainganga where the Gosikhurd dam is located. These kind of solutions are deliberately costly because corporates continue to influence them.
 
 Q. Finally can Nag River be rejuvenated?
 
 A. It has become a perennial river now which is unnatural. We can make the water clean provided citizens take the initiative by constructing baffle reactors at homes which remove pollutants up to 80%. The river bed treatments should also be done. Nature, people and authorities should come together to ensure that the river is naturally clean of toxins.
 
 
