GURUGRAM: Exclusively on the lines of its vision – to serve the society with an equal emphasis on quality and environment, an IFFCO project has been awarded the highest prestigious Platinum Rating certificate under   (Pilot Version) Rating System of Indian   (IGBC).

 The IGBC has devised a rating mechanism for metro stations and buildings on a scale of platinum, gold, silver, etc., for following green building specifications.
 
 The objective of the IGBC Green Rating is to ensure environmental sustainability.
 
 Incidentally, apart from being the first Residential Society in Haryana, it is the second Residential Society in Delhi NCR to receive certificate under IGBC Green Residential Societies (Pilot Version). However, winning accolades for its commitment to maintain the green cover is not a new phenomenon for IFFCO as this organization has always taken care of Climate change, population growth, increasing demand for energy, food security and water scarcity, to serve the society with an equal emphasis on quality and environment.
 
 Incidentally, the point awarded to IFFCO Nagar, Sector-17 B, Gurgaon under IGBC Green Residential Societies (Pilot Version) was highest in Delhi NCR.
 
 It may be noted that 2017 is the Golden Jubilee year of IFFCO and its managing director Dr U S Awasthi had decided to visit as many as 125 centres across India, to ensure its dedication to promote co-operatives in India.
 
 This certification review is based on a review of the project goals and intentions. It is incumbent upon the project team to demonstrate that the credit requirements have been met at the design and construction certification reviews. The Precertification rating awarded need not necessarily correspond to the final IGBC Green Homes Rating. S Richard Fedrizzi, the CEO and founding chairman of US Green Building Council, has also congratulated the IFFCO MD   on achieving LEED certification for IFFCO Sadan. "The IFFCO has set a benchmark in maintaining green norms and has inspired other upcoming housing societies in the country to follow its path of sustainable development. LEED certification identifies IFFCO Sadan as a showcase example of sustainable design and demonstrates your leadership in transforming the building industry," Fedrizzi mentioned in his congratulatory letter.
 
 Even the residents appear enthusiastic about IFFCO’s green move. Ajay Pandey, who resides in IFFCO Township since 1987, claims that in Gurgaon – which is one of the most polluted cities in India, bagging award for maintaining high environmental standards, IFFCO had turned something out of the question into on the cards. “IIFCO Township is a model for the other townships in India. Equipped with heater, water harvesting, solar power street light and LED light, this green belt is like heaven right in the centre of heavily polluted   area,” he said.
 
 Corroborating similar views, Awneesh Mishra, who resides here for the last 22 years, said that with the use of natural energy sources, the residents do not find any power blues in the area. "We get hot water even for washing clothes and dishes due to the solar power system here. Our kids do not gasp to breathe in this green atmosphere,” he said.
 
 Anil Sharma, who looks after the civil engineering works in the society for many years, narrates the success story of IFFCO. "For a 35-year-old township, it was a Herculean task to get IGBC’s Platinum certification. But, our systematic approach made it easy. We focused on water harvesting and solar power electrification and the result is before all," he said.
 
 It may be noted here that according to the official information, the IFFCO Nagar, Sector-17 B had secured 78 points out of 100, including 20 out of 25 in facility management, 16 of 29 in sustainable water practices, 20 of 22 in energy conservation, 10 out of 10 in waste management and 12 of 14 in innovative practices.
 
