

 It was one of those days I preferred to stay at home, as it was Janmashtami and the roads were jam packed. After a two km walk, I somehow reached home. Feeling irritated at my husband Sai for not picking me up, I took my time when he rang the doorbell that evening. When I finally opened the door, in walked with my husband the surprise he had planned for me for Janmashtami, a cute little St Bernard wagging her tail! I have always loved dogs but this was unexpected, and I stood there for a while, not knowing how to react.
 
 It was love at first sight but initially I was really sceptical about keeping a St Bernard. Being a working couple, I wondered if we would be able to take the responsibility of raising her. But Sai managed to convince me. It wasn’t an easy decision but looking back, it was totally worth it. It’s been eight months now since Tiah has been with us and ever since, she has filled our lives with happiness and laughter. We call her our four-legged adopted furry child. After a long tiring day when I come back home I am greeted with two paws on my shoulders and a huge bear hug which makes me forget all my worries. She is our greatest stress reliever and I always feel that we can learn a lot from these four-legged angels. 
 
 Their lives are short but they live each day with unrestrained enthusiasm and joy. It’s amazing how they spend most of it waiting for us to come home each day.
 Many of us spend our days engaged in social media, with no time left for true companionship. We express our love through emoticons and texts. My husband and I are no different but ever since Tiah came into our lives, we started bonding over her. She makes us realise the true meaning of friendship and selflessness and, above all else, unwavering loyalty.
 
 A lot of people tell us that we are killing a St Bernard by keeping her in a flat. I agree that there is only limited space for her to move around but I feel all that a dog really wants is our love. They don’t care about fancy cars, big homes, designer clothes or whether you're rich or poor, clever or dumb. Give them our heart and loved them unconditionally and they love you back.
 
 Recently, when we went for our vacation, the first thing we did was research on the best options to travel with your pet. Given the risk involved in taking your pet via air, we ruled it out and chose the next best option, which was by train. In India it’s not easy to travel with your pet as there are no set guidelines anywhere. You are allowed to travel with your pet in a first class AC coupe or by putting them in dog box in the guard’s compartment. It required a lot of effort but we were ready to do anything for her. I really thank my husband who supports me and shared the responsibility in everything.
 
 Last week we adopted Siri, a two-month-old female Labrador from a shelter. It took no time for Tiah and Siri to bond. They play with each other and we feel really happy to see them. Both Tiah and Siri are our sunshine. Each morning we wake up to furry faces greeting us and I go to sleep at night looking forward to the wonderful experience.
