GURUGRAM: The much-awaited Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority ( ) is likely to become a reality on Thursday, when the Haryana   passes the draft bill. Though hectic lobbying is going on in the bureaucratic circles for the plum post of CEO, sources told TOI officer on special duty V   is likely to be the government’s choice.

 On Wednesday, the government’s legal remembrancer (LR) held a meeting in Chandigarh with all stakeholders to scrutinise the bill and give it a final shape before presenting it in the Assembly. LR is an officer who gives opinion to the government in legal cases. Usually a sessions judge or a principal secretary-rank official is appointed as the LR.
 
 While the special assembly   has been called mainly to debate the goods and services tax (GST) regime, the government is keen on passing the GMDA Bill. The government could not get the bill passed in the budget session in March as it failed to get a Hindi version of the same, which was supposed to be provided to legislators. The government took ist own time in studying the bill carefully and deciding under which administrative department GMDA will come. While some bureaucrats had pitched for bringing GMDA under the urban local bodies (ULB) department, the CM finally decided to being it under the department of town and country planning (DTCP), which is his portfolio.
 
 While chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar will be the chairperson of GMDA, the government is yet to appoint a CEO. According to sources, OSD V Umashankar is likely to be elevated to the position, bypassing some of his seniors.
 
 According to the provisions in the revised draft bill, the CEO has to be an official of the rank of principal secretary or above. While Umashankar, a 1993-batch IAS officer is not a principal secretary-rank official, sources said the government would still go ahead and appoint him as the CEO.
 
 “The couple of names that were being considered for the post of CEO were of Anand Mohan Sharan, who is at present the principal secretary of the urban local bodies department and Sudhir Rajpal, principal secretary of industries and commerce department,” said a source. “Speculation was rife that Rajpal could be made the CEO as he was recently promoted to the rank of principal secretary. However, it seems the government would appoint Umashankar as the CEO,” said the source.
 
 Interesting, during his visit to the city on Tuesday, while introducing the dignitaries present at the launch of the second phase of Rapid Metro, Khattar had introduced Umashankar as the CEO of GMDA, instead of OSD.
 
