NEW DELHI: Parking your vehicle in Delhi, even near your home, is soon going to be an expensive proposition. According to new rules that are set to be notified, roadside parking in residential colonies will be allowed in demarcated areas and a fee charged.

  Anil Baijal on Wednesday reviewed the Delhi Maintenance and Management of Parking Rules, 2017, prepared by the transport department. The meeting was attended by transport minister   and senior officials of his department, civic agencies and traffic police.
 
 Rates for parking on demarcated public roads in residential areas will be fixed by the respective civic agency in consultation with RWAs. If your building has stilt parking but you still park on the street, the charges will be twice the normal rate. According to the new rules, which give teeth to the draft parking policy prepared by the department, parking rates will be fixed by a `base parking fee committee' headed by the transport commissioner. The rules are set to be notified very soon and The rules propose that onstreet parking for the first hour be priced at least twice as much as off-street parking.The parking fee will increase exponentially every hour to discourage long duration of on-street parking and will be thrice that of off-street parking. No surface parking will ordinarily be allowed within 500 meters of a multi-level stack parking.
 
 The rules have also come up with dynamic pricing mechanisms such as peak and off-peak fees and exponential increase per hour of use would be used to moderate parking demand.
 
 An apex monitoring committee headed by the chief secretary will review the implementation and compliance of these rules.
 
 The civic agencies will prepare and implement local area specific, integrated parking plans (called area parking plans) as envisaged in Delhi Master Plan 2021. The rules also propose to assign the responsibility of preparing area parking plans to MCD deputy commissioners, chairman of  , commissioner (Land),   and CEO of the  .The enforcement powers for challaning vehicles and realising fines under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 will also be delegated to officers of civic agencies.
 
 The civic agencies will identify roads and spaces for granting permission for overnight parking of transport vehicles. The parking of commercial vehicles would be permitted only on notified roads during night hours only, upon payment.
 
 The civic agencies will identify and provide exclusive night parking places for the purpose of parking of erickshaws and other electric vehicles. A facility of legal charging of such vehicles shall also be made available at these places.
 
 In case of illegal parking on roads wider than 60 feet, the traffic police shall be the primary agency for towing away the vehicle. In case of other roads and spaces, the civic agencies shall be responsible to tow away the vehicle and impose penalties.
 
 Any junk vehicle (petrol and CNG ones older than 15 years and diesel vehicles more than 10 years old) found parked on public streets will be impounded.
 
