VADODARA/ANAND: Dr R C Natarajan, director of the prestigious the Institute of Rural Management, Anand (IRMA) who is accused by a female employee of the institute of sexual harassment, surrendered before a court in Anand on Monday.

 Natarajan was granted bail and directed to record his statement before Anand police on Tuesday. After the female employee had registered a FIR at women police station of Anand against Natarajan last week, Anand police had launched a manhunt to nab Natarajan who had gone on “casual leave”. 
 
 “Natarajan was fearing arrest. He has so far not co-operated with the police investigations. But now the court has directed him to record his statement at police station,” said Saurabh Singh, Anand district superintendent of police (DSP).
 
 Police sources said that Natarajan’s counsel has submitted an affidavit in the court stating that he is undergoing treatment for an illness. 
 
 Since the female employee registered her complaint before the police, the cops have registered statements of around 12 witnesses. The complainant has described around five instances where she felt that Natarajan’s remarks and behaviour very offensive and sexual in nature.
 
 “Some professors have corroborated the instances described by her,” said an official. 
 
 It is for the first time that a director of the institute, whose foundation was laid by Father of India’s White Revolution Dr  , is facing sexual harassment charges. Meanwhile, IRMA also issued a statement terming the case as “unfortunate” and stated that it would act expeditiously.
 
 “There is no place for gender bias, workplace harassment or discrimination at IRMA,” an email from the institute states, claiming that after the complainant had approached the internal sexual harassment complaints committee (SHCC), the institute’s chairman had already responded to the complainant that “legal processes” will be followed. 
 
 “In light of the fact that the complainant filed the case before local complaints committee (LCC), Anand, IRMA board of governors did not form any new committee to decide the case. The matter is before the district   at this stage,” IRMA stated, adding that legal provisions provide for action by the board only after LCC concludes its enquiry and submits a report. “The management of IRMA will act expeditiously and in accordance with law after these enquiries are completed,” they said.
 
