NAGPUR: It is common for a novel to be adapted into a movie, but a rarity for a poem to be adapted for the big screen. City poet   has been exemplary in proving the scope and power of a few written lines. His poems have been plucked out of pages and moulded into a set of paintings and even plays.

 Few days ago, Yashwant’s anthology ‘Baaki sarva theek aahe’ was adapted into a one-act play by the same name, and staged at  . The poem sarcastically points to all evils in and around us, and the tendency to hide one’s suffering by saying ‘everything is fine.’ Director Dhananjay Mandavkar also won a coveted one-act play competition in Mumbai for this production he did with actors from Umred.
 
 “As a director, I’m on a constant lookout for new and different works of literature. I have read all of Yashwant’s poems. I feel he has a skill for writing on issues that reflect the state of society. I would name him as one of the top poets in contemporary Marathi literature today,” said Mandavkar.
 
 This was one among four plays based on his poems. English play ‘Between the life’ directed by Abhijeet Zunjarrao, Marathi plays ‘Bail abolbala’ directed by Sayaji Shinde and ‘Dangal shantatil paar padhil’ directed by Ramesh Thorat are the others.
 
 Last year in July, noted painter Chandrakant Channe inaugurated his set of paintings inspired by Yashwant’s 11 line poem ‘Bail’ at Chitrakala Mahavidyalaya. The exhibition was titled ‘Black, bull, etc’ Channe admitted that this idea was suggested to him by lyricist Gulzar himself, and termed Yashwant as an aggressive and rebellious poet. “Yashwant is a childhood friend whose words are powerful and honest. I borrowed his concept and interpreted it through paintings in which I’ve not merely translated words to visuals, but showcased my own interpretation of his words,” he added. He said he also considers Yashwant on the same par as noted poets such as Grace and Suresh Bhat. Channe’s exhibition has travelled to Mumbai, Thane and Pune, and will soon be showcased in Bhopal, Jaipur and Delhi.
 
 Cinema, however, is a dream for several artistes, thanks to its reach and popularity. Yashwant’s poem ‘Bail’ was part of ‘Bioscope’, a movie made in four parts by four directors, released in 2015 and screened at MAMI festival. The segment was directed by Girish Mohite. Talking of his poems, Yashwant says, “My poems are inspired by current events and circumstances I come across in daily life, and my reactions toward it. Behind every poem is a story. When poems get adapted, it feel good to know that the fire in me has also ignited within someone else.”
 
 Best of his poems have been translated by Dr K Janmadas in an anthology titled Broken Man, and will be released next month. His books ‘Aata houn zau dya’, ‘Aani shevti kaay zaale’, and ‘Punha chalu karu ya’ have been adopted in the curriculum of MA in Marathi literature in Pune and Aurangabad universities along with Ahilyabai Holkar and North Maharashtra universities.
 
