NAGPUR: Mahametro has asked for over over half the land occupied by Krazy Castle water-cum-amusement park opposite Ambazari embankment for building part of Metro corridor and parking. The land belongs to   but has been developed and operated by Haldiram Foods International Ltd. Haldiram has offered to shut down the park but demanded a whopping compensation of Rs 162 crore.

 Following MLC Prakash Gajbhiye’s complaint, chief minister   has reportedly directed the NIT to work out a plan so Krazy Castle also does not shut down and Metro rail works also get done. NIT sources told TOI, Fadnavis is likely to hold a meeting of NIT and Mahametro officials and Haldiram representatives to work out a solution.
 
 Haldiram had developed Krazy Castle on NIT’s 6.4-acre land on BOT basis in 2002 near Nag river starting point. NIT had given land to Haldiram on 20-year lease.
 
 Metro rail’s East-West corridor is passing through North Ambazari road to Hingna T-point via Ambazari lake and Subhash Nagar. Mahametro has started construction of corridor and metro station opposite Ambazari embankment. The corridor is supposed to cross Subhash Nagar square and Ambazari lake T-point road and reach Subhash Nagar square via Krazy Castle.
 
 Mahametro has also proposed to develop parking for metro rail station in Krazy Castle area. For that, it has asked for entire area on the south side of Krazy Castle’s main entrance gate. The area comprises lawn, amusement park, function hall etc.
 
 An NIT official told TOI Krazy Castle’s charm will end if half of is gone. “Haldiram’s lease is up to 2022. Haldiram is not ready to give half the area and has instead offered to return entire land. They have demanded Rs 162 crore compensation. NIT kept the offer before Mahametro to take over entire Krazy Castle area. NIT will adjust compensation of Rs 162 crore in its share of Rs 434 crore in metro rail,” the official said.
 
  has demanded that metro rail corridor should be shifted for saving Krazy Castle. “It is the only water-cum-amusement park within city limits. Hundreds of children along with parents enjoy here. Metro corridor can be shifted a little bit. It is being constructed downstream of Ambazari lake’s embankment posing threat to 145-year-old embankment. Sprawling land is lying vacant within VNIT adjacent to Ambazari crematorium. Corridor and Metro station can be developed on VNIT land,” he said.
 
 Gajbhiye added he was not against development, especially Metro rail. “Any project should add to city’s development and not come at the cost of existing development,” he said.
 
 A MahaMetro official said corridor could not be diverted and will pass through Krazy Castle. “NIT had prepared the Metro rail plan so it was well aware of the situation. Still, Mahametro has given an alternative to the NIT so Krazy Castle does not shut down,” he said.
 
 
