SUARAT: Opposition is growing in the Diamond City over the decision by   (AI) for operating Surat-Delhi morning Airbus via Rajkot from March 27. 

 Social media is flooded with messages by angry residents, criticizing the AI management for tinkering with the smooth operation of morning Airbus flying between Surat and Delhi, which gives it more than 90 per cent passenger traffic on the route.
 
 Sources said time duration for passengers travelling from Surat to Delhi in morning Airbus will increase from 1.45 hours to 3.10 hours, following the change in route via Rajkot. Same will be repeated when the flight will arrive to Surat from Delhi via Rajkot in the morning hours. 
 
 “The morning Airbus is operating with 90 per cent passenger load per trip between Surat and Delhi. Rajkot already has a flight to Delhi, and there was no urgent need to divert the morning Airbus to Rajkot. This will unnecessarily increase the travel time and that many passengers would opt out,” said a member of ‘We Want A Working Airport at Surat’ (WWWAS) Sanjay Jain. 
 
 Jain added, “We have already represented the issue to the top management of AI for continuing the morning Airbus between Surat and Delhi and revoking the decision to divert the flight to Rajkot.”
 
  (SGCCI) has also opposed AI’s decision. 
 
 “The morning Airbus is mostly used by business fraternity from Surat and Delhi. If the flight is going to take more than three hours to reach Delhi via Rajkot, there is no use. A passenger travelling to Delhi will have to waste at least six hours to board the flight from Surat. We are going to represent the issue to the top management,” said SGCCI president BS Agarwal.
 
 Meanwhile, Air India (AI) has shown interest to start flights from Ozar airport to Hyderabad and Surat. AI was unable to operate Mumbai-Nashik flight in May last year due to lack of slot at the airport in the country's financial capital. More recently, Air India expressed its inability to commence air service from Nashik. Nashik industries had already announced that it will sign a loyalty programme with any airline company which starts services from Nashik.
 
