BENGALURU:   will no longer have the unbridled right to tow away wrongly parked vehicles from the streets, police commissioner   has said.

 According to a new mandate, henceforth, traffic police, on spotting an illegally parked vehicle, will have to announce the vehicle's registration number and make. They also have to specify that it's been illegally parked and will be towed away if the owner doesn't turn up in five minutes.
 
 If the motorist shows up on time, he or she will be fined only Rs 100. If not, the vehicle will be towed away and the violator will also have to pay the towing charges to get it released. Also, cops will have to click a photo of the illegally parked vehicle before taking it away .
 
 In a move to 'empower citizen on their rights while dealing with police', the police chief will soon upload an educative video on social media, explaining the mandate that traffic police should follow before booking cases related to   and driving under influence of alcohol.The move comes in the wake of growing incidence of traffic police slapping towing charges indiscriminately . The fine for illegal parking is Rs 100; towing charges, including fine, is Rs 750 for two-wheelers and Rs 1,100 for  .
 
 Two days ago, a private company employee approached TOI saying that recently he and his friend had a harrowing experience with traffic cops in Bagalgunte, north Bengaluru. “Our bike was parked in a no-parking zone. Traffic police swooped down and loaded the bike, despite us accepting that we were at fault and would pay the fine.They towed away the vehicle to Peenya police station where I had to pay a hefty fine plus towing charge of Rs 750,“ the person said.
 
 The new mandate, to be put in place by the police commissioner, will prescribe the dos and don'ts for police in cases of drunk driving too. Speaking to TOI, Sood said: “If traffic police are towing away the vehicle, they must take a picture of it. This helps reduce scuffles between offenders and police.We are concentrating on the quality of the cases than quantity.“ “Before booking a person on drunk-driving charges, a printout of the alcometer reading should be given to the offender,“ said Sood.
 
