Ahmedabad: Today, 606 years ago, the city set out on an adventure that continues to define history — successfully melding economic progress with its pluralistic heritage. The heroes of the story are enterprising merchants, bold industrialists, ideas-shaping literati, and humanity-inspiring saints. The synthesis on that grand scale brought continuity to the city’s story. No wonder then that Ahmedabad, one of the oldest medieval cities in the subcontinent, is also the sole Indian contender vying for the World Heritage City status in a   meeting in Paris in July. 

 Founded in 1411 by sultan Ahmed Shah on the Sabarmati riverbank, Ahmedabad is today not only the seventh largest city in India but also one of the very few cities in the subcontinent that have flourished since the medieval era. 
 
  
  The city prospered as Gujarat’s commercial capital till the Mughals arrived in 1572, but lost its political importance. It made great progress as a trading centre in the 16th century, connecting the Silk Route — that linked China and Japan to Europe and Africa — with the Spice Route (from Asia to Northeast Africa and Europe). The city’s fortunes dipped significantly during the Maratha rule in the 18th century. But with the British gaining control in 1817, the city reasserted its mercantile strengths. 
 
 The first textile mill established in the city in 1861 provided a turning point in history — it set up the platform for it to emerge as the Manchester of the East by the early 20th century. In 1915, Mahatma Gandhi chose Ahmedabad as his base to launch the Satyagraha and the city became the cradle of political awakening for the country. After Independence, by 1960s, Ahmedabad pioneered institutions for space and scientific research, management and design. In her book ‘Ahmedabad: A Society in Transition’, Dr Kunjlata Shah, a former head of the department of history at SNDT College, Churchgate, Mumbai, gives a unique snapshot of the city with a glorious past that is heading towards an even glorious future. Here are a few glimpses. 
 
  
  British got the city in ‘exchange offer’
 
 Gaekwads received it for Dabhoi, Bahadurpur, and Savli
 
 Prior to 1817, Peshwas and Gaekwads shared the city’s revenues. But in 1817, under the Treaty of Poona, Peshwa Bajirao II surrendered his share to Anand Rao Gaekwad after the Third Maratha War. Five months later, Captain Carnac, the British resident at Baroda, negotiated a supplementary treaty with Anand Rao Gaekwad to take control of Ahmedabad. The city was ‘ceded’ to the British for an increased subsidiary force of the East India Company and in exchange for Dabhoi, Bahadurpur, and Savli.
 
 1st English businessman & Jain protest
 
 In 1818, Dr Gilder became the first Englishman to set up a business in Ahmedabad. He was a partner in the commercial firm Messrs Gilder, DeSouza & Co. He was provided a piece of land near Shahibaug to carry out experiments in producing better quality bourbon cotton (Mandopalams). However, he and his team could only produce superior quality indigo for dyeing, which came to be called ‘Doctori Kaapad’. However, the Jain community realized that the method caused mass destruction of insects, which was against the Jain ethos. After widespread protests, the doctor abandoned the business in mid-1820.
 
 A ‘maska’ route for opium trade 
 
 Opium trade was entrenched by 1818 and brought great wealth to the city. The city sourced huge amounts of opium for the East India Company. In 1830, collector   in his report lamented how a great portion of opium was illicit and was carried away from non-British ports such as Daman. The merchants first used the desert to take cartons of opium on camelback but when Sindh was captured by the British, the sea route was exploited.
 
 First untouchable student 
 
 The first English school was opened in Ahmedabad in 1844 by Rev G L Allen at the Old Dutch factory. But when the school admitted an untouchable boy, prominent citizens boycotted the school. In 1846, the first British government English school opened in Nagarsheth ni haveli, with 47 students. 
 
 Amdavadi ‘Adventure’
 
 The steam engine that fired the first textile mill in the city and changed its destiny was called ‘Adventure’. The story of Ranchhodlal Chhotalal establishing the first textile mill on May 30, 1861, is well known. Chhotalal was serving as an assistant superintendent of Pavagadh when he met Major Fulljames in 1847; the latter was planning to open a mill in Surat. Without wasting time, Chhotalal gathered funds from Amdavadi elite and approached Dadabhai Naoroji in London to help him procure the ‘Adventure’ engine. The mill began with 63 employees and made enough profit to declare a dividend of 6% in its first year. 
 
 Mills broke caste barriers 
 
 The first mill strike took place in 1878. It was because a person from the so-called untouchable caste was found to be working in one of the mills, disguising himself as a Marwadi. The ‘upper caste’ employees tried to protest, but because of economic reasons, especially cheap labour, the protest had to be abandoned. 
 
 Bapu’s charkha problem
 
 When Gandhiji arrived in Ahmedabad in 1915, the city was already a textile hub. He wished to revive the spinning wheel (charkha) and the production of khadi. However, he found it difficult to acquire a spinning wheel, or even a spinner, to teach the members of his ashram to spin.
 
 Winds of change 
 
 Much before the arrival of the Gandhiji, the first major political event took place in Ahmedabad in 1902 in the form of the 18th session of the Indian National Congress. It happened primarily due to efforts of Ambalal Sakarlal Desai. The mill owners actively participated in the event at which Mangaldas Girdhardas was inducted as a Congress working committee member. Advance Mill, owned by J N Tata, became the venue for the congregation. 
 
 First violent action against British
 
 The first violent action against the British erupted in the city before Gandhiji’s arrival. A bomb was hurled at Lord and Lady Minto during their visit to the city in November 1909. This surprised everyone. A meeting convened by Sir Madhavlal quickly after the incident declarted the city’s disapproval of such actions.
 
 Cinema makes an entry
 
 The first cinema hall, named Alexandra, opened in the city in 1912. It ran one show at 9 pm on Sundays. By 1921, there were 12 cinema halls in the city. Interpreters who used to make cinema fun for moviegoers remained in demand even in the talkies era as they used to translate English lines into Gujarati.
 
