'
 ' has had a phenomenal run at the box office since the day of its release. Now as week one came to a close, the figures of the S.S.  's film remained steady. 

 According to a report on BoxofficeIndia, the   starrer has grossed as much as 20 crore nett approx on its second Friday at the box office. The week one of the film amassed 245 crore approx, says the report. 
 
 
 
 The film has not only broken records of the highest grosser 'Dangal' and 'PK', but has also broken the record set by its first installment. While buzz is that the film will soon be released in Japanese and Chinese, the ace director has no plans of making a third film under the same franchise. Taking to his Twitter handle, Rajamouli said, "And with this last leg of promotion in london my job with   film series is completely over. A big hug and thanks to everyone."
 
 The ' ' mania is not just restricted to the nation but has clearly spread overseas too. Superstar   too lauded the magnum opus and termed it as "Indian cinema's pride". By the response of the audience, it seems like the film is likely to cross Rs 1,000 crore worldwide in a week's time. If it does so, it will be the first film ever to earn as much at the box office in the history of Indian cinema. 
 
 While you have been keeping a close watch on box office collection of the movie, here's a look at the amount that the stars of the movie charged.
 
 
 
 'Baahubali 2: The Conclusion' lead actor, Prabhas walked away with a whopping Rs 25 crore. Following him is on screen nemesis Rana Daggubati who has been paid Rs 15 crore for the film. Sathyaraj who played Kattappa got a cool Rs 2 crore for his act.
 
 Well, those are some startling numbers, aren't they? 
 
 If you're wondering how much the gorgeous leading ladies are charging, well be prepared to get your second set of shocks.
 
 Anushka Shetty who plays Devasena received Rs 5 crore for her role. Tamannaah Bhatia too has been paid the same amount as Anushka for the film. Ramya Krishnan who played the feisty Sivagami was paid Rs 2.5 crore.
 
 
