Nagpur: Laxminarayan Institute of Technology’s (LIT) long pending dream of getting autonomy may become a reality by year end, after Nagpur University administration decided to fill up all its vacancies of teaching and non-teaching staff. Of course, the move came after getting flak from union surface transport minister Nitin Gadkari, who flayed NU top officials for ignoring the prestigious institution that led to its deterioration. NU would be appointing teachers on the contractual basis on monthly remuneration of Rs24,000 per month, which would be perhaps first time in its history that staff would be recruited through this mode. So far, NU used to take services of contributory teachers, who were paid on clock hour basis. “For getting an autonomy, any institution should have full strength of teachers and non-teaching staff. Moreover, they need to have top grades from National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) or National Board of Accreditation (NBA). As a first move, we’ve decided to fill up 15 posts of teachers on contractual basis which included professors and assistant professors,” an elated vice chancellor SP Kane told TOI. An advertisement in this regard would be issued shortly in the media and on NU website inviting applications from the eligible candidates. “The terms and conditions would be as prescribed by UGC where candidates need to possess NET/SET and PhD qualifications. The selection would be done by a panel of NU experts. The candidates would be recruited for 11 months, after which their contracts would be renewed. These appointments would be made as per provisions of Maharashtra Public Universities Act, 2016,” the VC said. The once-prestigious institution which was alma mater for many renowned alumni has about 64 teaching posts, of which 38 are vacant. The state government allowed NU to fill up 13 posts for which advertisements are already issued. Currently, the scrutiny of applications is underway and interview process would commence shortly. “We’re also outsourcing work of non-teaching staff to the private agency. LIT need about 20 office attendants-cum-clerks and those would be provided by the agency. Once these appointments are made, we would invite NAAC or NBA for inspection. After receiving their gradation, we would move proposal for autonomy which was in demand since last many years,” Kane said. Interestingly, the LIT Alumni Association was also demanding autonomy for institution since long, and offered to provide financial assistance to bring back its lost glory. Even Gadkari assured to provide funds of Rs50-Rs100 crore for its development. The deterioration of LIT, set up as per the wishes of Late Rao Bahadur D Laxminarayan in 1930, started in 1990s after NU failed to fill up its vacant posts for years. Bitter infighting and dirty politics further worsened its condition and brought it to the brink of derecognition from the AICTE in 2011. Fortunately, it escaped by paying a fine of Rs2 lakh from the general funds comprising students’ fees. Even the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court had slammed NU administration over LIT’s vacancies and set a deadline for filling them up, but its directives were never followed till date.