HYDERABAD:   may be in the eye of a storm with the Centre mooting a bill last year to  , but fly-by-night   and their   continue to thrive, running `rent-a-womb' rackets by luring needy women with the promise of big bucks.

 According to sources, with the Centre proposing to ban commercial surrogacy, the illegal activities of hospitals operating on the sly and their agents have only increased in the recent past, with certain pockets of Hyderabad emerging as favourite hunting grounds.
 
 For instance, at Suraram on the city's outskirts, agents are ensnaring women, particularly unmarried ones in the 18-20 age bracket, with ` 4 lakh for renting out their wombs to whoever is willing to cough up huge sums for experiencing the joys of parenthood.
 
 “At the most, a woman employed in a factory can earn about ` 8,000 per month. But ` 4 lakh for just nine months is a huge amount and that is enticing,“ said a source with knowledge of such rackets.
 
 The message being passed on to prospective surrogate mothers, in the age group of 18 to 35 years, is that they will be paid ` 4 lakh in Mumbai and ` 3.5 lakh in Bengaluru, it is learnt.
 
 Sources said these hospitals allegedly pay the money to the agent, who gives a part of it to the surrogate mother.Interestingly, these agents also circulate a toll-free number on which interested women can contact them for further details. As per the existing rules, men agreeing to become women agreeing to become surrogate mothers have to do so voluntarily, without any money changing hands. Of course, their hospitalization expenditure needs to be met by the prospective parents.
 
 Though the Centre came up with a draft ART (Assisted Reproductive Technology) Bill 2010, it did not become a law. But as there was scope for commercial surrogacy in the bill, several IVF institutes mushroomed.
 
 Many of these centres have, however, been operating illegally, luring young women into becoming surro gate mothers with the promise of big money.
 
 In many such cases, once the woman delivers the baby, her health is of no concern to either the parents, who are happy to get the baby, or the unauthorised hospital or for that matter the agent.
 
 Last year, the Centre came up with the Surrogacy (Regulation) Bill, 2016, which the union cabinet approved.But the bill, which proposes a complete ban on commercial surrogacy, is yet to become law, providing a window of opportunity for such illegal operators to rake in the moolah.
 
