GURUGRAM: As the court pronounced its judgment, convicting 13 workers of the murder of Maruti Suzuki’s human resources general manager   in 2012, the   brought under scrutiny the events of July 18, 2012, highlighting among other things, “inconsistencies” in the chargesheet filed by the police. 

 Defence lawyer Rajkumar Pathak argued there were many versions regarding the fire which led to Dev’s death. “The chargesheet says he was burnt alive after flammable paint thinner was poured over his body, but this was not proved in the medical report,” said Pathak.
 
 The prosecution countered that a matchstick was found at the site, which was left unburnt even after the fire had charred the entire room (M1), including Dev’s body. In response, the defence argued the said matchbox was not discovered immediately. 
 
 Another contradiction the defence highlighted was the exact location of the fire: was it inside the first floor conference room (M1), outside it, or on the ground floor? Dev’s burnt body was recovered from the conference room. District attorney Lal Singh Yadav rejected these arguments, saying, “It is possible for small objects like a matchbox to remain unaffected,” said Yadav.
 
 The defence team, headed by Vrinda Grover, Rebecca John and R S Cheema, said there were only 55 people named in the FIR. However, police arrested an additional 90 people by noon on July 19, handed over to the police by four witnesses. “The four witnesses were all labour contractors, who testified in court that they had together come over the next afternoon, because cops had asked them,” Grover said.
 
 The defence also highlighted that Maruti assistant HR manager, Nitin Saraswat, had said in court that at around 2.30am during the intervening night of July 18 and July 19, 2012, when he was at Artemis Hospital, labour contractor Deepak Anand, the first informant, had sent someone to him to fetch details of the 90 accused from  , so they could be arrested.
 
 “Saraswat said he entered the Gurgaon plant with his card at 3am, and took out two lists — a first list of 55 names (named in the FIR), and a second list of 89 (arrested before noon on July 19) — and handed them over to the Manesar SHO, inspector Om Prakash, at 6am, at the Maruti Manesar plant,” the defence argued.
 
 They also raised suspicion about how the four witnesses named the accused in alphabetical order in court. The first witness named 25 accused, with names beginning with A to G. The second named 25 accused (G to P), the third named 26 (R to S) and the fourth named 13 (S to Y). 
 
 They argued that at least 89 of the 112 accused were falsely implicated and acquitted by court. “In fact, all union office bearers and a large number of workers were made accused, to crush the worker’s movement,” Grover said. Incidentally, the Maruti Suzuki Workers Union was registered in March 2012, few months before the incident. 
 
 She went on to argue, “It’s unbelievable that workers who are accused of participating in rioting and vandalism, would voluntarily come to the factory the next morning, that too, armed with the weapons of assault, additionally, knowing of the presence of police force at the factory.”
 
 
