MYSURU: Even as walkers and joggers complained of pollution at the   site owing to desilting of the waterbody, Chamarajanagara MLA Vasu on Sunday said removing silt is not unnecessary. He said the   could go dry if silt is removed as the lake's water retention capacity will be adversely affected. 

  He said he has approached district minister   seeking his intervention to get fresh water to the lake. 
 
 Experts have argued that desilting will adversely affect the lake and have asked deputy commissioner D Randeep to stop the work. 
 
 Vasu said that he discussed the row regarding desilting with the minister and sought his intervention. The minister said he will check with the authorities concerned. "I've been receiving complaints against desilting and also about pollution of the water body, especially the foul smell it emanates regularly. Though we need to attend to the problems, I don't think desilting is a solution," he told The Times of India. Admitting that there is a division of opinion on desilting during the peak of summer, the   said he doesn't favour removing silt given that it will affect the lake's water retention capacity. "The lake is not getting fresh water like it did a few years ago owing to badly encroached Poornaiah canal. Now that we have diverted the flow of raw sewage into the lake, there is no water flow to the tank," he said. 
 
 There is a need to focus on getting water to the lake before we implement other plans, he stated. Pointing out that the Poornaiah canal, the main feeder canal stretched over 60 kms, he said it is badly encroached. "I've asked the minister to explore possibility of processing the raw sewage and letting the processed water into the tank as an alternative," he stated. The minister has said the district administration can get funds under CSR and implement the project. 
 
 The   chief B J Vijay Kumar said he will get details about the controversy and update the CM Siddaramaiah. 
 
 Meanwhile, people on Sunday morning complained of dust in the vicinity owing to desilting. They said the silt is removed and transported early in the morning which is affecting their routine. The activists, who are opposing desilting, said the authorities have assured the walkers and joggers that the silt removing work will not be taken up during morning hours. It is not followed as the authorities want to push the controversial desilting project forward despite concerns, they noted.
 
