BENGALURU:  , 59, the catholic priest who was recently released from an 18-month abduction in   said on Saturday that he has absolutely no idea about who his abductors were but added that they took good care of him and did not hurt him even once.

 “I was shifted four times in the course of my abduction but I was never harmed even once. They ensured that I got my medication (for diabetes) and even procured insulin once. Even during   (Ramzan), they took care that I was not left to fast,” Tom said on Saturday.
 
 A visibly weak Tom, who is yet to completely recuperate, said that his days in custody enhanced his belief in god and that it was his blessings that ensured that he returned unharmed. 
 
 “I do not belong just to my family or the salesian congregation anymore. I belong to the entire world that prayed for my safety. I have been informed by my relatives (in  ) that even our hindu and muslim brothers and sisters offered prayers for me. This shows that it was god’s blessings that kept me safe and that there is some good in every person—which is why my abductors took such care,” he said.
 
 Answering specific questions, he said that he had never had a conversation with any of his abductors and that his only communication with them was to seek things he needed. “I did not understand Arabic and they didn’t seem to know English. The only words exchanged between us was when I had to use the toilet or when I needed something, even which was difficult,” he said.
 
 
 
 Reiterating that he had no knowledge of who his abductors were, he said: “They took a few videos where they pretended to have hurt me, but in reality they did not harm me. There was some noise in the background, but I do not know anything else,” he said.
 
 Tom, who was blindfolded every time he was moved from one place to another and could not understand the language being spoken by his captors, said he learnt that his original captors handed him over to another group, who kept him until the time of his release. 
 
 “Not just while being shifted, I had to cover my eyes whenever my captors came near me. I had no communication with the outside world as I was confined to a room. But it had ventilation, and although they had kept my hands and legs tied the first few days, it did not persist and they never tortured me,” he said, adding that he even had a sponge mattress to sleep on.
 
 Tom was abducted on the morning of March 4, 2016 from outside the chapel he was praying at in Yemen, and was released on September 12, 2017, after 18-months-and-eight days. While it is believed that he was abducted by terror outfit  , Tom is in no position to confirm that. 
 
 He has not met personnel from any of India’s security agencies dealing with terror as yet—he only returned to India on September 28 as he was taken to Rome (the Vatican) soon after his release—and is planning to visit his family in Kerala next week.
 
 
