WASHINGTON: Two Chinese aircraft conducted an unprofessional intercept of a 
  , the Pentagon said on Friday, marking the second time in about a week that the US has complained about 
  in the region.

 The US P-3 Orion surveillance plane was 150 miles (240 km) southeast of Hong Kong in international airspace when the Chinese aircraft carried out the unsafe intercept.
 
 A defense official said one of the Chinese J-10 fighter jets flew about 200 yards in front of the US P-3 aircraft and about 100 feet above it, doing slow turns. The second Chinese fighter remained about 750 yards off the P-3's right wing. The official wasn't authorized to discuss the issue publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity.
 
 Navy Cdr. Gary Ross said the Navy P-3 Orion was operating in international airspace. He said the US is reviewing the incident and will convey concerns to the Chinese.
 
 Earlier this week, a US navy warship sailed within 12 nautical miles (22 km) of an artificial island built up by China in the  , US officials said on Wednesday, the first such challenge to Beijing in the strategic waterway since US President   took office.
 
 China is deeply suspicious of any US military activity around its coastline, especially in the resource-rich South China Sea, parts of which are disputed by China and its smaller neighbors, including the Philippines, Vietnam and Malaysia.
 
 Incidents such as Wednesday's interception are not uncommon.
 
 Last week, US defense officials said two Chinese SU-30 jets conducted an unprofessional intercept of an American radiation-sniffing surveillance plane in the East China Sea.
 
 Pacific Air Forces spokeswoman Lt Col Lori Hodge said at the time that the Chinese aircraft approached a WC-135 Constant Phoenix aircraft — a modified Boeing C-135 — conducting a routine mission in international airspace in accordance with international law.
 
 The WC-135 crew characterized the intercept as unprofessional "due to the maneuvers by the Chinese pilot, as well as the speeds and proximity of both aircraft," Hodge said.
 
 China denied US accusations about last week's intercept, saying its aircraft conducted a safe and professional operation.
 
 Defense ministry spokesman Wu Qian said the American plane was conducting surveillance over the   — the northern part of the East China Sea — and that the Chinese jets moved to identify and verify the plane "in accordance with laws and regulations."
 
