Nagpur: After a slow start, more and more voters, particularly the young, are exercising the ‘None Of The Above (NOTA)’ option on the EVMs saying no candidates were worth their consideration. Poor educational background of candidates, criminal records, and relatively unknown faces made voters opt for  .

 This was particularly true in west Nagpur area, considered a bastion of middle class. Even in south and north Nagpur, where literacy levels are a bit less, there were some instances of voters opting for NOTA. Many NOTA voters said they had never heard of candidates’ names or their background. Others were against the parties who fielded candidates either with criminal background or with low educational qualifications like SSC or   passed.
 
 “I sincerely feel no party or individual corporator has done any commendable work in the past. A majority of them have criminal records or no educational qualifications to have a vision of development,” said Shakul Ghatole, a lawyer from Itwari.
 
 Some like student Abhishek Kane from Ramdaspeth said he opted for NOTA because the ruling party disappointed him after the last polls and the opposition party failed to present strong candidates. “I expect that a candidate should live up to his/her promises and I don’t see anyone capable of doing that,” he said.
 
 For voters like Rahul Patankar, a software engineer, the four-member ward system had made things complicated. “In our ward, I only know one member, while rest were never heard of. I opted for NOTA for other three. Even among my friends, many opted for ‘not to vote option’ for more or less same reasons,” he said.
 
 Another youngster from Ward 10 added she voted for only one candidate as one had a criminal background, one was having poor past record, while the third was totally unknown face. Youngster Anuj Bukawan from   and student Rupal Jain from Narendra Nagar also pressed NOTA for three candidates for similar reasons.
 
 Dr Abhishek Sambre from Sneh Nagar, Gajanan Parajwar from Raghuji Nagar and Deepak Duryodhan pressed NOTA for all four candidates as they were dissatisfied by their previous work.
 
 Voters including self-employed Rhushal Bhasharkar from Jagrut Nagar and teacher Ritesh Harode opted for NOTA after realizing that contestants had criminal records and their reputation was not good. “No candidate is good enough. Their education levels are unthinkable, as they just cleared matriculation,” they said.
 
 Students like Prasad Gupta from Hansapuri and Vipul Khanduja felt no party actually wanted development, they were all just hungry for power. “The needs of people aren’t being fulfilled,” they said. Agreeing, student Anuj Singh from Sadar said, he opted for NOTA as candidates he liked shifted to other parties. “NOTA is just an expression of opinion,” he said.
 
 (With inputs from Megha Tiwari, Sakina Dawood and Shubham Nagdeve)
 
 
