Visakhapatnam:   workers from Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Employees Union called off their three-day strike after reaching an agreement with the Municipal Administration and Urban Development (MAUD) officials in Amaravati late Wednesday night. Representatives of CITU, AITUC, INTUC and independent unions participated in the talks with MAUD officials that were held on Wednesday. 

 The contract and outsourcing sanitation staff of GVMC staged a three-day   that commenced on July 11 demanding the cancellation of GO 279 and a hike in their wages. This was in response to the statewide strike called by Joint Action Committee (JAC) of municipal workers unions.
 
 Although the workers planned to continue the protests on the third consecutive day, the agitation ended with a small meeting in front of the GVMC office on Thursday after their demands were fulfilled. The sanitation workers were briefed about the discussions held in Amaravati by representatives of the unions.
 
 Venkata Reddy, honorary president of GVMC contract workers union, affiliated to CITU, said, "The officials confirmed that the received tenders based on GO 279 will not be finalised and no more tenders will be called for. A discussion with Joint Action Committee (JAC) is scheduled to be held within 15 days to discuss the other aspects of GO 279." 
 
 “The officials agreed to increase the wages of skilled, un-skilled and semi-skilled sanitation workers and the permanent employees will be provided with health cards and it will be ensured that an individual account for each of the permanent staff will be opened,” he added. 
 
 With more than 5,000 staff including sanitation workers, vehicle drivers, and supervisers participating in the strike, heaps of   had piled up in the city. Although the permanent employees were deployed to clear the garbage, the dumper bins in the lanes of most of the areas were filled with garbage. 
 
 “The door-to-door collection of waste was hit due to the strike. However, since the unions have called of the strike, the services have resumed from Thursday evening,” civic chief M Hari Narayanan said.
 
 
