NAGPUR: Yadaorao   based in   village of   district became the first educational institute from the district to be ranked in the top 150 colleges in the country by NIRF.

 The institute made it to the national rankings by topping in basic parameters like availability of resources for study and research, infrastructure, facilities for physically challenged students and strength of students, teaching and non-teaching staff.
 
 Currently, the college’s teaching staff has 13 members in total with 11 of them as permanent faculties while the non-teaching staff has eight. The total number of students admitted in the college is 262, as per the datasheet submitted by the college to NIRF.
 
 According to college principal Dr P  , no extraordinary schemes were adopted which would increase the college’s chance of being ranked. He said, “We keep improving the learning environment for students and try to introduce innovative methods of teaching.”
 
 The college offers just one undergraduate programme of Bachelor of Arts (BA) with subjects like English and Marathi literature, history, etc on offer.
 
 Technological aids including internet facilities, LCD projector and laptops are recent introductions to the teachers’ inventory, according to the datasheet. Arunaprakash also said that   designed an internal network software especially for the college which gives students easy access to information related to their studies.
 
 The college also gives students an option to pursue a software development certificate course online, courtesy of IIT Bombay. We only have one option for such a course. We will introduce more in future,” Arunaprakash said.
 
 A significant amount has been spent on academic resources and activities, as per the datasheet. The college increased expenditure on its library in the 2015-16 session to Rs 50,860 from Rs 31,734 in 2013-14.
 
 Accessibility for physically challenged students has been refined in the last couple of years, Arunaprakash said. The college mentioned in its datasheet that all campus buildings are equipped with lifts, ramps, wheelchairs and specially designed toilets for the physically challenged.
 
