MUMBAI: A 27-year-old   who was allegedly gang-raped by two labourers early on Friday slipped and fell off the fifth-floor   of a   building while trying to escape. Local residents rushed the bleeding woman to a hospital, where she is said to be stable. Police have arrested the two accused on charges of  , criminal intimidation and wrongful restraint.

 Dnyaneshwar Chavan, zonal deputy commissioner of police, said Faruk Khan (31) and his associate Santosh Kanojia (26) were arrested from the Pydhonie   for their alleged crime.
 
 Investigators said the survivor met Kanojia in a Mumbai-bound   from   last week, and the two got talking. The woman told him she was headed to Mumbai in search of a job and Kanojia assured her of his help. As she did not know anyone in the city, Kanojia offered her temporary accommodation in his rented room at  , where he did odd jobs. 
 
 “They stayed there for a week and came to Mumbai on Thursday evening. Kanojia told the woman that since it was 9pm, they would not get a return train to Bhiwandi. He proposed that they spend the night with Khan, a friend. He took her to a room also used as a godown by Khan’s employer, which was usually shared by the employees. However, Khan was alone that night. “The two accused got drunk. Kanojia raped the woman and Khan assisted him,” said a police source.
 
 A fourth-floor resident of the building said he heard a woman’s screams around 4am. “A woman could be heard screaming and all of a sudden, she fell from the terrace. She first collided against our window and fell on the parapet and then into a gutter between two buildings. We immediately informed our neighbours. The residents ran out and found the bleeding woman. We rushed her to the hospital,” said a neighbour. Residents said they locked the door that led to the fifth-floor staircase to ensure the accused would not be able to flee.
 
 A police officer said after Kanojia and Khan went to sleep, the woman slipped out of the room, locked the door from outside and went to the terrace, from where she slipped and fell into the gutter. 
 
 However, a neighbour said, “If she intended to jump, why did she scream out for help? She must have been thrown from the terrace.” 
 
 She was said to be out of danger at J J Hospital. 
 
 “The woman’s statement will be recorded to ascertain how many men raped her. As of now, police have booked two persons for gang-rape,” said a source. Police probe is underway to find if Kanojia had raped her in Bhiwandi too.
 
 
