NASHIK: All eyes are now on the civic body’s health department with the residents and the medical fraternity questioning why it had not taken timely action   Baliram Shinde for running an unregistered  .

 Shinde, who has been practising at his Ozar hospital since 1991, opened Dr Shinde Hospital and Research Centre at Mumbai Naka a few years ago.
 
 The health department of the   (NMC), however, was in the dark about this as Shinde never got the hospital registered. 
 
 It was only until a team of health officials from the civic body raided the hospital after receiving a tip-off about a   and termination of pregnancy case that Shinde’s hospital at Mumbai Naka came under the spotlight.
 
 A senior government medical official said, “Every hospital should be registered with the concerned authorities under the Bombay Nursing Home Act. The concerned authorities should also have a record of the number of beds at the hospital, the doctors attached to it and so on.”
 
 The health department of the civic body continued to neglect the presence of this huge hospital until they received a tip-off on February 17.
 
 Activists and citizens are now concerned as to why the health department of the NMC took this long to question the existence of such a big hospital. Deepali Mankar of Women’s Right Protection Committee in Nashik said, “Such hospitals engaged in illegal abortions should not be running in the first place. There needs to be a strong machinery to keep a check on such hospitals. The concerned departments should be so strict that there is no scope left for the doctors of such illegal centres.”
 
 Shinde’s hospital is located close to the the Mumbai Naka police station, yet no one was aware if the hospital was registered or not.
 
 City BJP MLA Devyani Pharande said, “The NMC is strict in checking all the sonography centres and medical termination of pregnancy (MTP) centres. Routine inspections of these centres is so strict that many gynaecologists and radiologists are annoyed by it. Despite this, if a hospital was operating without registration with the health department, then they should set up a special team to check on such illegal centres that are running across the city.”
 
 To avoid more cases, district civil surgeon Suresh Jagdale has instructed all the taluka medical officers to keep an eye out for such centres and collect the data of doctors of such hospitals. 
 
 “We have instructed our taluka medical officers to conduct strict checking of hospitals, MTPs, sonography centres in their respective jurisdictions. Many times you find a name of a renowned doctor on the board of the hospital. It is not necessary that the concerned doctor is attached to the hospital. We have instructed our taluka medical officers to conduct inspections of such hospitals and check if the directors of these hospitals have copies of agreement of doctors,” said Jagdale.
 
 The civic health department officials have a different story to tell though. Medical officer of the NMC Vijay Dekate said, “We do keep a check on illegal centres that are running as hospitals or clinics. But, in case of Shinde’s hospital, the owner had not got it registered. It was also not functional, so we didn’t realize that a hospital was being run without the necessary permissions. He used to perform surgeries at his Ozar clinic and if something went wrong, then the patient was brought to the Mumbai Naka hospital for better treatment by medical experts.”
 
 Nonetheless, the health department has decided to conduct strict checking of hospitals in the city to ensure that they are not operating without the necessary permission.
 
