PUNE: The Indian   team made a last minute change in their nomination with   replacing   for Saturday's crucial doubles rubber in the World Group playoff against Canada in Edmonton starting Friday.

 Hosts Canada also sprung a surprise by handing 22-year-old Brayden Schnur his cup debut in Friday's opening singles against Ramkumar Ramanathan while 18-year-old World No. 51 Denis Shapovalov will take on Yuki Bhambri in the second singles.
 
 On Saturday, Raja and Bopanna will be up against Vasek Pospisil and former world no. 1  .
 
 In Sunday's reverse singles, Shapovalov will play Ramkumar first before Schnur faces of Bhambri.
 
 Indian captain   said the decision to leave out Myneni, who has played only four singles since returning from a lengthy injury layoff last month, was down to the latter's fitness.
 
 "Saketh has been training hard but we felt that he is still a few weeks away from playing a five-set match," Bhupathi said.
 
 "Besides, their doubles combination (Nestor and Pospisil) is strong, both Wimbledon champions (with different partners). We needed to counter that."
 
 Raja, who joined the team during the preparatory camp in New York after his US Open campaign, has been in good form. The World No. 56 in doubles and Divij Sharan reached the semifinals of   events in Atlanta and Los Cabos (Mexico). The duo also reached the second round in their maiden appearance at Wimbledon.
 
 Bhupathi said Ramkumar playing the first singles was a positive for the Indian team. "Yes. Hopefully he can give us a good start and we can win a point on the first day," he said.
 
 The tie will be played on indoor hard courts at the Northlands Coliseum.
 
 Schnur is world ranked 202 but home captain   is clearly putting his faith in his young guns.
 
 Pospisil is ranked 82 in singles and 111 in doubles. He triumphed in Wimbledon in 2014 with American Jack Sock. The 27-year-old Pospisil also won both his singles rubbers but lost the doubles in the World Group first round tie against Britain in February.
 
 By playing Schnur, Laurendeau is keeping Pospisil fresh for the doubles and also sending a message to rising star Shapovalov.
 
 The teenager, whose recent scalps on the ATP Tour include World No. 1 Rafael Nadal, Juan Martin Del Potro and  , had cost Canada the tie against Britain when he was defaulted in the decisive fifth rubber for smashing the ball in anger, injuring the chair umpire in the process.
 
 Maybe it's time for the promising leftie to step up and take responsibility as a team player.
 
 
