NAGPUR: Revenue department has made it mandatory for   to form cooperative housing societies if they want to remain house owners. The department has agreed to provide them ownership documents for slums on nazul land, but with this rider.

 A government resolution (GR) issued by the department states that the ownership documents should be provided either to individual slum-dwellers or to cooperative housing societies formed by them. However, if individuals are made the owners then they should form a cooperative society within two years of getting ownership documents. Within one year of formation of such society, the individual slum dwellers should become members else the ownership documents issued to be him may be nullified. Once the slum dwellers form a  , the district collector will have to transfer the ownership of the slum to that society. 
 
 Explaining the rationale behind the decision, chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said that the government wanted to transfer public utility lands and amenities like community halls to slum-dwellers. “These cannot be transferred to individuals and hence the formation of cooperative societies is necessary,” he told TOI.
 
  (NIT) has already started providing ownership documents to slum-dwellers. However, it has not made formation of cooperative societies mandatory. Fadnavis said that as   had a separate Act, it was not possible for government to issue a GR on its behalf. “However, we will tell NIT or such similar agencies to ask the slum-dwellers to form societies. The principle remains the same,” he added.
 
 The GR also states that in case of backward class localities, the urban local body will pay the transfer charges to nazul department. Once the slum rehabilitation is implemented the charges should be then recovered from slum-dwelled by the local body. However, persons belonging to Scheduled Castes (SC), Scheduled Tribes (ST), Other Backward Castes (OBC) and economically weaker sections (EWS) should not be asked to pay these charges.
 
 The BJP-Shiv Sena government is on a spree to provide ownership documents to slum-dwellers with an eye on large number of municipal elections in the month of February. The process has already started in Nagpur.
 
 
