

 
 
 
 “I am happy and contended. It is a recognition for Kathakali and for the people in my village who supported me all along.“ Chemancheri Kunhiraman Nair was to the point while responding to the news that he has been selected for the Padma Shri award on Wednesday evening.
 
 But the 101-year-old Kathakali maestro is eloquent on the stage while presenting the classical art even at this age. He had said that he derives a peculiar energy while donning characters on stage. It is this `divine' energy that helped him to tide over the misfortunes in life and carry on with the pursuit of excellence in Kathakali, Chemancheri said.
 
 It was the passion for art that made him leave his house in Cheliya, around 20 kms from the city, and approach Palayil Karunaka Menon, a Kathakali maestro.Young Kunhiraman was fascinated by the performances of touring theatres that used to visit his village. Karunakara Menon continued to be Nair's Guru till his death.
 
  
  
 
 Kunhiraman Nair's artistic life is an inevitable part of cultural history of north Malabar. He has choreographed performances under the instruction of Koumudi teacher, an ardent disciple of Mahatma Gandhi. Nair turned to other dance forms such as B h a r a t a N a t ya m wh e n Kathakali faced crisis as an art form and even toured with a circus team in Thalassery.
 
 Though he has played several characters, the role of Krishna remains closest to his heart. Kunhiraman Nair has a special charm while performing the role of Krishna on the stage. He has performed more than 1,000 times as Krishna in different compositions.
 
 The discipline in life he imbibed from Kathakali classes in early days has helped Kunhiraman Nair to maintain physical fitness. Even at 101, he performs occasionally and oversees the functioning of Cheliya Kathakali Vidyalayam he had set up in 1983.
 
 
 
 
 
 It's been five years since she stopped touring India and abroad to mesmerise music lovers with her outstanding classical renditions. But that didn't mean a retirement from eight decades of musical journey which earned her many firsts in her career both as performer and a music teacher. At the age of 92, Parassala B Ponnammal remains very active with local concerts, TV and radio programmes and music classes at her residence in Valiyasala Gramam in the city limits.
 
 All these years, for Ponnammal, her disciples ­ now ranging from a 9th standard student to an 80-year-old ­ and her well-wishers had been the real strength. Recognitions and awards came in between, but nothing like the news of the prestigious national honour that came in on Wednesday.
 
  
  
 “I am so happy to be chosen for Padma Shri, and it's a great national recognition that has come my way . I think the sincere prayers of my students and well-wishers have made this happen. They are my real source of energy at this age, and I think they are much more jubilant than myself,“ said Ponnammal, celebrating the glorious moment along with her near and dear ones at her residence.
 
 Born in 1924, Ponnammal was initiated into Carnatic at a very young age and had her first public performace at the age of 16. The first woman to pass the Ganabhooshanam course from Swathi Thirunal Music Academy and the first woman faculty at the Academy , she also made history by being the first female vocalist to perform at the legendary Navaratri Music Festival in 2006 in Thiruvananthapuram. Her well-known renditions include Guruvayur Puresa Suprabhatham, Trisivapuresa Suprabhatahm, Ulsava Prabhandam, Navarathri Kriti and Meenambika Sthothram, besides the compositions of Irayimman Thampi and many others.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 “I did not expect anything, so it came as a surprise, and I am thankful to those who have conferred such an honour on me,“ was the response of poet Akkitham Achuthan Namboothiri, now in his nineties, when he came to know about the Padma Shri.
 
 But many fellow poets were disappointed and felt that conferring Padma Shri on Akkitham is tantamount to humiliating him.
 
 “It is insulting that a poet like Akkitham was selected for Padma Shri, which is a minor award given to relatively young people,“ said poet and writer K Sachidanandan. Considering his contributions to the world of Malayalam poetry , he should have been given a major recognition, he said.
 
  
  
 Poet K G Sankara Pillai said they could have better eliminated Akkitham from the list of Padma awardees than `dishonouring' him with an award given to many lesser known film artists and others in the past. “He deserves nothing less than Padma Vibhushan and those who know his contribution to Malayalam literature would not have humiliated him in such a manner,“ said Sankara Pillai.
 
 Singer S Janaki had refused to accept Padma Bhushan in 2013, as she felt it as a humiliation considering her stature, Sankara Pillai said.
 
 An official in the department of culture said Akkitham's name was recommended for Padma Bhushan and it seems the decision to award him Padma Shri was taken by the centre.
 
 However, the poet who was bestowed with many honours including Sahitya Akademi Award, Aasan Prize, Vallathol Award, Vayalar Award, Ezhuthachan Award and the Moorti Devi Award of Jnanpith award committee, said awards have never charmed him, and hence its material value does not make difference.
 
 “I never expect any honour when I write poetry , and hence I never think whether this honour is big or small,“ he said.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 For many she is the modern incarnation of Unniyarcha, the legendary woman warrior of Kadathanadu who stormed the male bastions with her agile footwork and swift movement of hands.
 
 Hailing from the same Kadathanadu, the erstwhile territory in north Kerala known for its valour, Meenakshi Amma, the 74-year-old Kalaripayattu practitioner is elated over her selection for this year's Padma Shri award.
 
  
  
 “I am dedicating the award to Raghavan Master, my husband and Guru,“ she told reporters who reached the Govinda Vihar at Puthuppanam near Vadakara. “It's God's grace that the country has recognised Kalaripayattu,“ she said.
 
 Meenakshi Amma was introduced to Kalaripayattu, the traditional martial art form of Kerala at the age of seven under V P Raghavan Master, whom she married at the age of 17. It was not common among the girls to continue with Kalari practice after marriage, but Raghavan Master was particular that she should not stop learning the martial art.
 
 Raghavan Master was also a specialist in Kalari treatment and many communist leaders who were tortured by police during Emergency had secretly approached him for treatment. After her husband's demise in 2007, Meenakshi Amma took over the reins of the Kadathanattu Kalari Sangham established by her husband.
 
 The Kalari, which is visited by many students even from abroad, still maintains the traditional value system.There is no fee for the classes and money is accepted in the form of dakshina and expenses for the oil used in Kalari.
 
 Even at the age of 74, Meenakshi Amma is active in imparting Kalari to the students. She is well-versed in using all the weapons ranging from the stick to the urumi, which even the experts find difficult to master.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 For veteran playback singer K J Yesudas, November 14, 1961 will be indelible. It didn't just mark the launch of his career. The memory of battling a throat infection to sing a tune prais ing the nation pushed him to new frontiers. On Wednesday, it fetched him the Padma Vibhush an, the second-highest civilian award in the country .
 
 The award isn't the end, said the 77-year-old singer in an interview to TOI. “It is humbling, yes. It is also a stepping stone,“ he said. The singer was among the seven people who were selected for the award. He didn't see the award as just an accolade. “It is a mirror of the mind of my audience, who acknowledge that music has no religion, caste or creed,“ said the Carnatic musician, who made his entry with the lines `Jaathi Bhedam Matha Dwesham' in a studio in Madras in 1961. However, it was only a year later that he sang his first film song `Attention Penne Attention', along with legendary singer Santha P Nair.
 
  
  
 Recalling his younger days, Yesudas, who won the Padma Shri in 1975 and Padma Bhushan in 2002, said the award was also a prize for the struggles he went through as a newcomer. “It is only because of that I'm here today and I've learnt to appreciate success a lot more,“ said the singer at his residence in Abhiramapuram in Chennai. He recalled staying in a temporary accommodation in Triplicane and walking to Royapettah every day for recording. “I will never forget where I came from,“ he said.
 
 The singer has recorded more than 50,000 songs in several Indian languages as well as Malay, Russian, Latin and English in a career spanning more than five decades.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PR Sreejesh was a bit perplexed to find a flurry of messages on his phone as he arrived at the Bhubaneswar airport along with the team members of his HIL franchise, UP Wizards, on Wednesday evening. The Indian hockey captain had little clue that the trophy cabinet at his home in Pallikara, is soon going to be adorned with the most coveted award of them all, the Padma Shri.
 
 “I had no inkling that such a big honour was coming my way . In fact, I didn't even know that my name was sent for such an award.When someone mentioned to me that I could be a recipient of Padma award a while back, I had told him I am no Pranchiettan. (referring to the popular character played by Mammotty in a film). 
 
  
  
 
 Honestly, this is beyond my wildest dreams,“ Sreejesh said. Son of a farmer, Sreejesh has come a long way from the days when he used a coir-rope to tie the wor n out straps of his pad while attending the junior national camp in New Delhi in 2003 for the first time. “When I wore the goalkeeping pads for the first time ever as a kid, I never expected to become Indian hockey captain.
 
 Today, I am a recipient of the Arjuna award and now I will be bestowed the Padma Shri. I wouldn't have received such recognition without the support from my family and my teammates. Hockey has given me everything and I owe this game a lot,“ an emotional Sreejesh said.
 
 The poster boy of Indian hockey hopes that his success on the field inspires more people from Kerala take up the sport. “You need role models in life. Following my success, I have seen more people from Kerala tune into hockey . We should tap this.Sadly , hockey is not even recognized as a sport by the Kerala State Sports Council (KSSC). They may have many reasons for it. But I hope better sense prevails,“ added Sreejesh The 28-year-old who made his debut for Indian senior side in 2006 had to wait for almost five years to earn a permanent spot in the squad. But ever since, the `keeper of India's fortunes has played a crucial part in each of his team's success in the last five years - Asian Champions Trophy triumph in 2011, gold medal in 2014 Busan Asian Games, bronze medal in World Hockey League in 2015.
 
