BHATINDA: The police and excise authorities seized sports kits and liquor bottles from a truck at Rampura Phul assembly constituency in Bathinda. The truck was found parked outside the Panthers Club, headed by   leaders. Police suspect that the kits were meant for distribution among sports and youth clubs in various villages.

 The Rampura Phul returning officer (RO) has marked the probes to police and the excise authorities. The Aam Aadmi Party activists on Sunday had filed a complaint with the returning officer about the Shiromani Akali Dal men loading sports kits in a truck to distribute to people.
 
 Punjab rural development minister   represents Rampura Phul in state assembly and SAD has re-nominated him from Rampura. On Sunday itself, Maluka was found declared guilty of distorting ardas at the inauguration of his election office at   on December 26, by Akal Takht. Sikh clergy, led by Akal Takht jathedar Gurbachan Singh on Sunday directed Maluka to undergo religious punishment of cleaning utensils and shoes at Golden Temple and   at Talwandi Sabo.
 
 AAP candidate Manjit Singh alleged, “Akalis were loading sports kits in a truck on Sunday to distribute among sports clubs in villages and we complained against it. Panther Club president Subash Mangla is coordinator of SAD in Rampura and club chairman Sunil Bitta is president of the municipal council. They are behind loading of kits for distributing it to clubs”.
 
 When contacted, Akali leaders refuted the charges. MC president Bitta said, “The kits had reached here many days ago. The left out kits were being loaded to be returned to the state government.”
 
 Rampura Phul RO Narinder Singh Dhaliwal said, “We have impounded a truck parked outside the Panthers Club office on Cinema Road and seized 60 sports kits, which include 15 cricket and 9 volleyball kits, and 36 gym stations. Apart from these, 20 sealed and 6 open liquor bottles were also recovered.” He said police and excise authorities have been asked to take legal action.
 
