NAGPUR: In its affidavit submitted before the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has charged Armors Township’s builder Anand   with ignoring government directives and not sticking to the sanctioned building plan.

 The HC is hearing a suomotu public interest litigation (PIL), regarding the electrocution of 11-year-old twin brothers Priyansh and  , based on a series of TOI reports. It had appointed   as the amicus curiae. 
 
 NMC’s town planning department has stated that as per the Development Control Regulations (DCR), it is mandatory to maintain a horizontal distance of two meters between the building edge and high tension (HT) line. According to the affidavit, NMC had asked the builder to maintain a distance of 4 meters from the line on the front side but Khobragade left a distance of only 1.1 meters. “He also extended the balconies thereby taking the construction very close to the HT line,” NMC stated.
 
 However in his affidavit, Khobragade has alleged that the owners of the row houses extended the balconies which was evident from the sanctioned plan.
 
 While Khobragade has denied receiving any directive from NMC to shift the 33KV HT line out of the township, NMC has submitted a letter in the court written by the then assistant director of town planning (ADTP) Sujata Kadu. Dated April 13, 2006, the letter asked Khobragade to shift the electrical line laid above the nine meter road inside the township.
 
 NMC also submitted an order of March 17, 2004, passed by the then additional collector Anshu Sinha, asking Khobragade to take no objection certificate (NOC) of erstwhile MSEB. “Builder has not complied with condition while carrying out the construction,” NMC stated.
 
 Refuting charges that the township was illegal, Khobragade stated that he had all the necessary NOCs.
 
 The builder also stated that electrical inspector had done an inspection of the township in 2009 when the substation and transformer were installed but did not find any flaw. He claimed that in 2011, he had written letters to SNDL, urging it not to provide power connections to the occupants of the township. However, SNDL vide a letter January 18, 2012, stated that all norms had been complied and hence electric supply was provided, the builder added.
 
 Following the court’s earlier directives, Khobragade has submitted details of his assets according to which he owns 139 properties.
 
 Meanwhile, Bhandarkar has suggested composition of an eight-member committee comprising two power experts, two town planning experts, one legal expert, one vigilant citizen and a senior journalist.
 
 The committee has to inspect 141 spots in the city where overhead HT lines pose a danger to human lives. It has to identify more such spots, especially in congested residential and commercial areas.
 
 The committee has to find out whether town planning officials have been ignoring violation of DCR in the case of constructions under HT line. It also has to determine whether immediate removal of structures under HT lines needs to be undertaken or lines should be shifted.
 
 According to Bhandarkar, the panel has to assess the cost of converting overhead HT lines into underground cables. It further has to suggest whether the compensation paid by MSEDCL to kin of electrocution victims is appropriate.
 
 The amicus curiae has also pointed out that electric poles standing in middle of 20 roads in the city pose a danger to human lives and these roads should be inspected by the committee. 
 
 The next hearing of the case will be held on August 1. 
 
