PUNE: The   said the   would be implemented at the Lohegaon facility on a priority basis.

 A day after a youth sneaked into the   with a fake e-ticket, an AAI official from New Delhi told TOI on Monday, “The tendering process is on for the e-ticket barcoding system. Once the project starts, the Pune airport will have the facility. A total of eight airports in the country are on the priority list of the AAI (Airports Authority of India) and Pune is one among them. Naturally, new systems will be introduced faster there.”
 
 The authorities had decided last year to introduce the barcoding system, also called the e-security system project, at airports to prevent people from entering the terminals with fake e-tickets. The   (BCAS) is the nodal agency for the project.
 
 The ticket e-security project would involve all the airlines. They would have to ensure barcodes in e-tickets, which can be scanned at the departure gate. The airlines stated that they had not received any formal order in connection with starting the e-ticket barcode system in Pune yet, but welcomed the initiative.
 
 “The system has to be centralized. Once an e-ticket is scanned at the departure gate, the AAI or the   official concerned will immediately get the name and flight details of the passenger no matter what his or her airline is. This will automatically stop the incidents of people entering airports with fake e-tickets,” an airport official said.
 
 The official said, “At present, the securitymen match the name of the ticket holder with his/her photo identity card after checking the flight number and date. But the PNR number can be verified only at the airline counter and not by the CISF men.”
 
 The CISF had sought uniform electronic tickets with barcode of all airlines and barcode readers at the departure gates after more than 34 cases of people entering the Delhi airport terminal showing fake e-tickets were detected last year. According to sources, the CISF nabs a person every 10 days for entering airports with fake e-tickets.
 
 The AAI official posted in Delhi said, “We don’t have much idea about what happened at the Pune airport on Sunday. But whatever it is, the CISF should be answerable because the security of the airport is its responsibility.”
 
 The Pune airport director, Ajay Kumar, did not reply to a message sent to him in this connection.
 
