NAGPUR: A day after they failed to handle the tactical moves of higher ranked GMs and IMs, three Vidarbha Masters Akash Thakur,   and   fought back to take full points in the third round of the 19th   tournament on Thursday. The nine-round international invitational tournament for players above 1500 Elo points is being played at the  .

 While the trio of Thakur, Gupta and Dodeja came back strongly in the nine-day event, 11-year-old Raunak   found Singapore's Grandmaster   too tough to handle.
 
 The 34th board battle between Zhong and Raunak saw the Queens Pawn opening move from the 16th seed GM. Defending with the black bits, Raunak converted the same into London system which gave Zhong a slight advantage in the 19th move. Within six moves, the seasoned Singapore master, who is carrying an Elo rating of 2641 points, converted his advantage into the winning position to force city's youngest Fide Master (FM) Raunak (2218 elo points) to resign in the 31st move. Raunak will square up against compatriot   in his next round.
 
 In contrast, 34-year-old city FM Thakur, despite playing with the black pieces, came up with a surprising win over IM Sultan Ibrahim of United Arab Emirates. Starting with the white pieces, UAE's Sultan started with the regular Kings Pawn opening while Thakur trapped the IM utilizing his Sicilian defence to emerge victorious after 40 moves. In the next round, Thakur will start with the white pieces against Mortel Marlon of Philippines.
 
 For 14-year-old Gupta, the challenge of Sri Lanka's Piyumantha M Sasith Nipun was a rather easy affair. Sankalp's Sicilian Accelerated Dragon opening with the white pieces took just 26 moves for his Lankan opponent to resign. In the 4th round, Sankalp will face the challenge of Uzbekistan's IM Kuybokarov Temur.
 
 The Amravati-based master Dodeja registered a comfortable victory over Indian CM Mullick Raahil. Playing aggressively, Dodeja's Kings Indian defence was enough to force Raahil to resign. Next Dodeja will face experienced IM Viani Antonio Dcunha.
 
