Visakhapatnam: The state’s failure to systematically abolish inams and hand over patta land to rightful owners have resulted in legal wars in court. 

 The Inam Abolition Act was enacted by the united AP government in 1955. The whole idea behind the Act was to enable the tiller to become the rightful owner of the land while the inamdar or titular land holder would either be compensated or provided 1.3rd of the entire land in question. However, the abolition of inams and the handing over of pattas was not done in a smooth manner resulting in a great deal of litigation. More importantly, the status of many inam lands are yet to be resolved despite the Act having been passed over six decades ago. While the status of most institutional inams (devasthanam lands) are yet to be resolved, the situation is the same with private inam lands in north-coastal AP.
 
 “Successive state governments have miserably failed to do justice to both the big inamdars as well as tenants. Now, with the Benami Act being imposed by the BJP government, inamdars whose land holding settlements are yet to be confirmed, will face the brunt along with those who have on paper purchased land from the original tillers as they will be viewed as benami holders,” K Viswanatham, an advocate and an expert in inam and estate matters based in Vizianagaram, said.
 
 Viswandham said in Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts there are more than 50 inams which are yet to be settled. “Roughly 10 of them (excluding the Simhachalam issue) are yet to be settled. These are big inam land holdings, amounting close to 25,000 acres of land,” he said.
 
 R Narayana, an inamdar from Vizianagaram district, said, “Our case has been pending in the court for over six decades and I’m the third generation of the family fighting the case against the government, urging them to resolve the issue. Unfortunately, today, most of the land (amounting to 1,000 acres) has gone into the hands of benami holders as the old farmers sold out for cheap. The government is neither interested in completing the survey nor does it intend to settle our land holding. Now, with the new Benami Act coming into play, I might have to provide a declaration regarding my landed assets and I stand in danger of possession of my Ryotwari-Patta land (agriculture land held with full ownership rights) being challenged.”
 
 Narayana further said the present revenue staff are incapable of handling inam and estate matters as they are not trained in these aspects. “Most of those who had a proper idea concerning the law have retired during 1985-2005.”
 
 “Very few of the present day officials are competent to deal with revenue law. Most of them are good at protocol work and implementing government programmes,” L Gurunatham, a senior retired revenue official of Vizianagaram, said.
 
 Gurunatham also explained that incompetence, lack of staff availability and the sheer overload of work (pending over six decades) has ensured that inam lands are yet to be settled in many parts of north-coastal AP.
 
 
