After bagging the second runner-up title in Indian Idol Junior Season 2, 16-year-old   made her debut as a Bollywood playback singer with Sonakshi Sinha’s  , where she sang the kitschy number Rajj Rajj Ke. Just as the teenager was savouring her success back in her hometown  , she got calls from reporters asking what she knew about the ‘fatwa’ issued against her. As per the pamphlets, local clerics urged people to avoid attending Nahid’s upcoming show on March 25, as the event is being held on ‘grounds surrounded by masjids, idgahs, madrasas and graveyards’. 
While it was a misunderstanding on the part of the media, as there was no fatwa against her, it was heartening to see how the youngster showed courage in the face of adversity and how Bollywood stood by her during the ordeal. Excerpts…
 
 
 I didn’t believe the news at all. I thought it was just a rumour. I went back to studying, but just then, my father switched on the TV and it was breaking news across channels. I didn’t react too much and took it easy. But then, many reporters and relatives started calling me, which is when I realised the seriousness of it. That’s when I got really worried. I was completely broken. The first thing that came to my mind was that I will have to leave Assam.
 
 
 To be honest, I didn’t even know what a fatwa means. My father explained it to me. After that, I was shocked, because a fatwa is a big thing. I thought that the Maulanas had asked me to quit singing. Not just me, my parents, too, were upset. About politics, I have no idea. I am only 16.
 
 
 I haven’t read that pamphlet till now. I am not allowed to see it as my parents think it will disturb me further. I got to know that it was distributed among reporters.
 
 
 I am in Std X and want to complete my studies in Assam. But later, I might shift to Mumbai. I definitely want to pursue playback singing. It is my dream. But before that, I want to become a good human being. 
 
 
 Of course, I am. I will sing my song from Akira. In fact, with all of this going on, I released another song in Assamese titled Dhuniya Jon.
 
 
 Not at all. I know that the people of Assam are with me. I got a lot of encouragement during this entire ordeal, including a call from the CM of Assam. In fact, the first call I got was from Vishal Sir (Dadlani). He told me to let him know if there was anything at all he could help me with. That gave me a lot of confidence.
 
