BHOPAL: The CBI has started investigating the alleged disappearance of important measurement tools from BHEL in Bhopal. These are unpatented instruments created by BHEL, which would have huge market value if copied by foreign firms and could cost  . 

 A complaint lodged with the   that more than 3,000 measurement tools/instruments manufactured by BHEL have gone missing after being rented out to ancillary units over the past few decades, say sources. A CBI officer, asking not to be named, confirmed that the agency was investigating the mystery. In 1965, BHEL had invited entrepreneurs to set up ancillary units and loaned the tools so that their products match  .
 
 “BHEL has patented the tools it has designed. If they get out of India, Chinese and Malaysian companies could make away with tenders,” said a BHEL officer. The Navratna PSU is desperate to get the tools back. “The matter related to the measurement tools was brought to our knowledge during an internal audit as well as the audit conducted by the government. It’s being looked into,” BHEL spokesperson Vinodanand Jha told TOI.
 
 CAG had criticised the lack of initiative by BHEL officials to recover the tools. CBI officers have collected details of entry and exit passes from BHEL’s gates, say sources. “Measurement tools should be tracked and recovered at the earliest. If any of them is found missing, the person accountable should to be taken to task,” said a BHEL officer. 
 
 BHEL officials were able to produce records for 84 tools that were given to ancillary units, returned and then reissued. “CBI should get to the roots and verify whether these 84 tools were returned and reissued. The records may be eyewash,” said an officer, hoping that the complex technicalities of the case won’t be a deterrent to CBI.
 
 Things haven’t been going well for BHEL in recent times. It lost a Rs 154-cr tender to a private Indian company last year. “The tender was floated by diesel locomotive works tenders, Varanasi, in March 2016 to manufacture 700 motors of Rs 20 lakh each. BHEL lost the business to a rival company which quoted a lower rate,” said a source. “This is not the first time India’s largest power equipment manufacturer lost a tender to a private firm. Earlier, Bhopal BHEL failed to qualify a pending approval for 1800 AC motors of Siemens design as the earlier order was delayed by 10 years,” said a source. CBI is investigating another complaint about alleged irregularities in procurement of shaft forgings by BHEL Bhopal and National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC).
 
