NAGPUR: Systems in banks escaped the ‘ransomware’ attack, but a cash crunch shut down many ATMs across the city since the weekend. The machines began running out of cash from Friday evening, with the dry run continuing till Monday noon. A number of ATMs remained dry even on Monday evening.

 TOI checked 47 ATMs in localities like Byramji Town, Central Avenue and West Nagpur. It found 21 ATMs did not have cash till Tuesday. Leading   (SBI) had the highest number of dry ATMs at seven.
 
 Sources in the banking sector admitted that more such incidents can be expected during extended weekends. Majority of ATMs are refilled by outsourced agencies, who get cash from the banks. However, since demonetisation, banks have been short of cash. Even as the situation has normalized, the cash supply from   remains down. Bankers say at times it is only 20% of the demand put before RBI.
 
 Under such circumstances, it becomes difficult for banks to keep enough cash with the agencies over holidays or long weekends. The situation gets worse during banking holidays if there is   remittance from RBI on the preceding working day.
 
 There was a similar situation this weekend, said bankers There were strong rumours in social media that ATMs would be closed as banks were preparing to shield against the ransomware attack. There were messages that RBI had issued orders to banks to keep the ATMs closed till protection is developed for ransomware. However, a senior RBI official denied any such orders. 
 
 “Even as work on protecting the systems continued, it did not have any impact on the functioning of ATMs. Some of our machines were closed due to want of cash, said a senior official in one of the new generation public sector banks.
 
 An official dealing with the media in this bank said nearly 75% of its ATMs were operating and the rest could have been shut due to other reasons, including shortage of cash. A spokesperson of another new generation PSU bank also added that ransomware did not have any impact on ATMs.
 
 Low cash supply from RBI has become a regular affair for banks, said an official in a PSU bank. The bank has been interacting with RBI officials on a daily basis. RBI has made it clear that banks will have to manage with limited cash. The banks have been managing by readjusting surplus cash, within their currency chests. At times, cash has to be sourced from far off areas too, said a senior official of this PSU bank, which has a major presence in the area.
 
 If supplies with a major bank having currency chest are hit, then smaller banks depending on it for cash are also affected, the source said.
 
 Soon after the note-ban, supply had increased through deposits. In the earlier days, there was a rush of supply of cash in the form of deposits from private businessmen, which was also used to refill ATMs. Now, cash is largely received for government payments like tax through challans, said a source.
 
 
