NAGPUR: The world-class Divisional Sports Complex at Mankapur has got thumbs up from the   ( ). The national body officially cleared the decks for the forthcoming  , slated to be held for the first time here from November 2 to 8.

 The three-member delegation of BAI including Punnaiah Choudary, secretary (tournaments), Omar Rashid, joint secretary and SA Shetty, executive member and MBA secretary, visited the sprawling sports complex at Mankapur recently and were impressed by the overall facilities at the venue.
 
 "We were asked by the BAI president ( ) to visit Nagpur and inspect the facilities at the tournament venue. We are very much satisfied with the existing facilities. The stadium is very good with excellent sitting capacity for the spectators. We have given necessary suggestions regarding the toilets and were assured that it will be taken care of," said Omar Rashid.
 
 The BAI joint secretary has also confirmed the participation of all the top stars of India. "All the stars including  ,   and   will play in Nagpur. These top shuttlers will directly play from quarterfinals stage. However in the men's singles, stars will have to play from the Round of 16. We have also increased the prize money to 1 crore so as to motivate the top stars for participation. With a great venue and comfortable stay arrangements at the star hotels, I believe Nagpur will set a new trend as far as hosting Senior Nationals is concerned," said Rashid.
 
 Choudary, BAI secretary (tournaments), is hoping that the participation of stars will add the much-needed value to the Senior Nationals. "This is a very important tournament in the BAI calendar and everyone should play. Youngsters can learn lot of things if they compete with the established stars," said the veteran official. 
 
  (MBA) president Arun Lakhani, Nagpur   (NDBA) secretary Mangesh Kashikar and   joint secretary Naresh Chafekar accompanied the delegation and also discussed various issues regarding the lodging and boarding arrangements of the players and officials.
 
 MBA president is confident of hosting the event in a grand manner. "We are trying hard to make the Senior Nationals a successful venture. The planning and preparations for the huge event is on. Players will be staying at reputed city hotels. We have also booked various government and public sector guest houses for the lodging arrangements of the officials," said Lakhani.
 
