BENGALURU: Facing flak for failing to meet quality standards on several occasions, ordnance factories have come under the scrutiny of the Prime Minister's Office.

 The   has sought details of products manufactured by ordnance factories and the cost incurred in the past three financial years.
 
 The report should be submitted by February 28.
 
 According to the letter sent to secretary (defence production) AK Gupta, the factories are required to provide a complete list of products manufactured along with the photograph and description of each product, number of products produced and value of production of each product. The February 16 letter, which TOI has accessed, reached the ordnance factories two days later.
 
 “This is the first time in 37 years of my service I've seen a PM directly writing to check on ordnance factories. That defence minister   is not in the loop indicates the PM is serious about the matter,“ said a senior official of an ordnance factory .
 
 The PMO has also sought a list of ordnance factories and the products they produce.
 
 Senior officials said the move is in line with the Centre's push for greater efficiency in ordnance factories. However, employees said it hinted at the government's attempt to commercialize defence production.
 
 Employees welcomed a review of quality , but were worried that the letter seeks to know “the quantum of land owned by each factory and the number of employees“. C Srikumar, general secretary, All-India Defence Employees' Federation, said: “While the defence minister has said jobs are safe, the PM's letter indicates what's in store for us.The government has been talking about commercialization of our factories.“
 
 He said the employees' federation, INTUC and   have sought an appointment with the secretary (defence production) and Parrikar. The unions have convened a meeting on March 21and 22 to discuss these developments.
 
 A senior staffer at an ordnance factory said Parrikar had last week spoken about the government's intent to make it mandatory for arms factories and defence PSUs to outsource a percentage of their business to private players.
 
 “This means reduced employment. The   (OFB) has put on hold the recruitment process of tradesmansemi-skilled people,“ he said.
 
 “Licences have been given to make small arms ammunition, rifles, guns, tanks -all primary products of our factories,“ he said, adding the Centre is reportedly keen on converting OFB from a department undertaking to a corporation or a limited company, like several PSUs.
 
