KOCHI: The Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) in Kerala is the low est in India. Standing somewhere around 12, for quite some time it was the lowest amongst the developing nations. But for the last decade or so, the   is not coming down. In developing countries like Cuba, Sri Lanka etc, the IMR has come down to in the range of 5 6, but in Kerala it is stagnant at 12. Recently there was an attempt by the state government, as part of Sustainable Development Goals, to evolve strategies to bring down IMR in Kerala to 8 by 2020 and 6 by 2030.

 A majority of infant mortality in the state occurs in the neonatal phase ­ that is within 28 days of birth. The main reasons for this are: congenital heart disease, neonatal infection and premature births.
 
 Almost one-third of IMR is due to congenital heart disease. In other words, out of 1,000 children born in Kerala, eight suffer from congenital heart disease. There are roughly about 4,000 new congenital heart disease cases detected every year and out of them 1,000 to 1,300 children require surgery. But only 35% of such children get access to surgery in either a government or private hospital. In other words, 65% don't have access to surgery . So there is a need to increase paediatric cardiology and paediatric cardiac surgery facilities in the state.
 
 Congenital heart disease can be managed in two ways ­ first is by giving two doses of MMR vaccination (in paediatric age and later in school) and second is that there should be ultrasound scanning (called anomaly scan) of the pregnant woman to detect for congenital heart disease in the child. But to pick up the anomaly through scanning, training needs to be given to the paediatricians, gynaecologists and radiologists. If cardiac anomaly is picked up before 20 months, then parents can opt for an abortion. This can help reduce IMR.
 
 Recently, NRHM officials called a meeting of health experts and cardiologists, cardiothoracic surgeons, paediatricians and gynaecologists in the state to discuss the means to reduce deaths due to congenital heart diseases. A decision was taken to improve cardiac care facilities in the state. State government has decided to start cathlab and cardiothoracic surgery departments in all district hospitals. At present, only   and Palakkad district hospitals have this facility.
 
 Further to control infection, we should have neo-natal ICU ( ) units at the government medical col leges as well as the district hospitals.Antibiotics misuse is another cause of infection related mortality. So there is a need to strictly implement an antibiotic policy in the state. This should also be done at an institutional level.
 
 The main cause of pre-term birth is maternal anaemia which can be prevented by providing adequate iron folic tablets. The immunization programme is also important in the wake of consistent campaign against it by various vested interest groups. As a consequence the vaccination coverage has come down in certain pockets of Kerala and diphtheria deaths have been reported. A focused campaign needs to be carried out by the state government in these pockets.
 
 (The author is a health expert and member of Kerala State Planning Board)
 
 Dr B Ekbal
 
