BENGALURU: Seven patients, including three women, in the general ward of   spent nine harrowing hours with a body in their midst on Thursday, after repeated complaints to   fell on deaf ears.

 “What can the body do to you? Close your eyes and sleep,“ a   reportedly told women who complained that they were scared. The staffers cited the lack of a mortuary for leaving the body amid the ailing in the ward.
 
 The body of the unidentified man was finally moved to the mortuary of   around 9am when patients' family members took the government hospital staff to task.
 
 The hospital staff claimed the man died only at 6.30am, but patients in the ward said he had breathed his last around midnight.Doctors at the hospital admitted they had kept the body in the general ward.
 
 The unconscious man was shifted on Wednesday evening to the hospital by locals who saw the body near the Kempegowda International Airport. “We tried to speak to him and he uttered `Devaraj, Devaraj'. After that, he lost consciousness,“ Naveen Kumar, the auto driver who shifted the man in his vehicle, said. The man died around midnight. To the shock of other pa tients, hospital staff de clared they would keep the body on the same bed and hung a curtain around it to hide it from others' sight.
 
 “My aunt is being treated here for high fever. I arrived with breakfast in the morning and was shocked to see the body. My aunt and other patients too were very upset,“ Mamata G, the family member of a patient, said. Dr Kumar G H, chief medical officer, Yelahanka Government Hospital, said, “The unidentified man was brought to our hospital on Wednesday evening and he was diagnosed with alcohol-induced chronic liver disease and severe jaundice.“
 
 “As we did not have adequate facility in our hospital to treat him, we referred him to Victoria Hospital at 10.30pm on Wednesday and took him in an ambulance. However, he was refused admission and I don't know the reason. The ambulance returned to our hospital by 11.30pm. We informed police about it on Wednesday night itself,“ he said.
 
 The unidentified man died at 6.30am, said Kumar, but refused to say why the body was kept in the ward for a long time. “We don't have a mortuary at Yelahanka Government Hospital, which is why we kept the body in the general ward,“ a staffer told media. Victoria Hospital, however, denied refusing admission to this man. Dr Balaji Pai, special officer at the trauma centre, Victoria Hospital, said: "This is a false report that we refused admission to an unidentified man on Wednesday night. We have several such cases on a regular basis and we admit all unidentified patients immediately," he said. DCP North East PS Harsha said police received a request to register an unnatural death case on Thursday morning.
 
 
 
 
 Leaving the dead with the living may be a one-off bizarre case, but it highlights the insensitivity among government hospital staff, and their sheer disregard for both the living and the dead.Telling patients to ignore the corpse and sleep tight is only adding insult to their fears. The incident also exposes the pathetic state of affairs in government hospitals: by the chief medical officer's own admission, the hospital was not equipped to treat the dying patient, and neither did it have a mortuary to keep his body.There is an urgent need to pump funds into the health sector and equip government hospitals with necessary facilities.
 
