Vijayawada: Police are leaving no stone unturned in driving home the importance of installing   cameras to prevent theft at business establishments in the city, close on the heels of a daring heist at at jewellery manufacturing unit in which robbers made away with 5 kg gold.

 This is not the first time that city police are asking businessmen to install CCTVs at their establishments. Several shopkeepers had agreed to install the   and 2,000 cameras were to be installed under the e-Nethra scheme. Unfortunately, the project was shelved because of various reasons, including shortage of staff and security arrangements for Krishna Pushkarams.
 
 “CCTVs have helped us catch pickpockets, chain snatchers and other thieves and robbery gangs,” said police commissioner D Gautam Sawang. Police are conducting drives on Bandar Road near Benz Circle, where there are 300 to 400 shops. After the Hyderabad bomb blasts in 2013, the AP government made CCTV camera installation compulsory at public places. In June that year, the state government had promulgated the AP Public Safety (Measures) Enforcement Act-2013, making it mandatory for all establishments to take up public safety measures to thwart terrorist attacks.
 
 However, Sawang said they are not going to enforce it now as they are giving establishments time to install CCTVs. The CP added that cops are taking up the awareness drive in phases in controlled areas, including those that are more vulnerable to crime than others. He added that only after the awareness drive fails to yield results and shopkeepers refuse to listen, would the police strongly insist that they put up the CCTV cameras. 
 
 AP police across the state are also promoting their ‘Locked House Monitoring System’ (LHMS) app to crack down on burglaries and thefts.
 
 “So far we have received a good response in Anantapur and Chittoor within 10 days of the app’s launch. We will also ask other police units to promote the facility. The CM is keen on increasing the number of CCTVs,” said state DGP N Sambasiva Rao.
 
 SECURITY OVERHAUL
 
 Cameras under e-Nethra scheme
 
 2,177 CCTVs installed at various junctions, colonies, apartments and business establishments
 
 220 high resolution CCTVs installed on MG Road, Besant Road, One Town, Sivalayam Street, Satyanarayanapuram
 
 Locked Home Monitoring System - How It Works
 
 * Households can avail security feature by downloading and installing ‘LHMS AP Police’ or the 4th Lion app. After registration, they must click on ‘Request police watch’ through the app and enter ID and number of days for which police watch is required along with date and time
 
 * Police will install CCTVs and keep a tab on all activities from the control room
 
 * 51,791 registrations across Chittoor district
 
 * 698 people availed LHMS facility since its launch
 
 
