PUNE: The   has directed the state department for sainik welfare to start giving a monthly special grant to the 79-year-old widow of a   veteran after she provides her  
 
 

 
  Tulsabai’s husband sepoy Ganapati Suryawanshi was in the Indian Army from October 26, 1942 to March 1, 1947. After his death Tulsabai shifted from Karanataka to Maharashtra, where she has been living for more than 15 years.
 
 
 
 
  Last November, she made a representation to the   officer (SWO), in Kolhapur claiming that as per a GR issued on December 29, 1989, she was entitled to the WW II grant and benefits.
 
 
 
 
  But since she did not have the required domicile certificate and related documents, the authorities were not in a position to release the grant.
 
 
 
 
  The bench of justices Anoop V Mohta and  , while responding to her petition, said in an order on 
 , “We find that the petitioner is about 79 years old and is a widow of WW II veteran.
 
 
 
 
  The petitioner appears to be living in starving condition and hence, we expect the state government to act with urgency.”
 
  Her lawyer Dhairyasheel Sutar informed the court on April 17 that Tulsabai's domicile certificate would be submitted to the SWO within three days. Based on affidavits filed by the sainik welfare department and Kolhapur SWO, the bench then directed that on receipt of the domicile certificate, the SWO shall take a week to forward her file to the department. 
 
 The latter shall take another one week for a positive decision so that the SWO is in a position to release the grant in the savings account of the petitioner, the bench further said.
 
 On May 3, Sutar submitted that since an age proof was required for securing the domicile certificate, the petitioner had initiated steps for obtaining it and would soon submit her domicile certificate to the SWO, Kolhapur. 
 
 The court then directed the respondent department and the SWO to comply with its April 17 directives as soon as Tulsabai submits her domicile certificate. Sasne, who attended the co urt proceedings, said, “The Kolhapur SWO office had issued an identity card to Tulsabai some eight to nine years ago based on a residence certificate issued by Shirol tahsildar's office.
 
  This certificate cannot be treated as a domicile document. We feel she should get as much grant as possible once she submits her domicile certificate. Between November 2008 and March 2015, the SWO office had already given total financial assistance of Rs 40,800 to Tulsabai and Rs 12,000 of this amount was provided through the Kendriya Sainik Welfare Board in Delhi."
 
