MANGALURU:   Bernard Moras on Wednesday called upon   to participate more in church activities besides giving voice to the voiceless in society.

 Speaking after inaugurating the 10th National Youth Convention here on Wednesday, Bernard Moras said these days Christian youths are seen everywhere accept in liturgical (church) activities. 
 
 Grace Pinto, noted educationist and managing director of Ryan International Group of Institutions, in her keynote address, mentioned how she turned into an educationist with hard work and got a recognition for herself. “Always think big and speak your mind. Positive things will come automatically in your way. Today, we need people who are compassionate in whatever they do,” she said.
 
 She also asked thousands of youths who have come from every nook and corner of the country to respect their parents. “We think that spending time with our parents is boring and waste of time. But you should remember that they have sacrificed their life for your upbringing.”
 
 The   (CBCI) organises the youth convention every three years and this year it is being held at Mangaluru. The convention will deliberate on issues like environment, harmony and peace in society and leadership. The participants will also discuss about the means of networking with organizations that share similar concerns.
 
  
 
 
 
 According to the organisers, more than 5,000 youths have come to Mangaluru to be part of this event. On the concluding day on January 22, over 8,000 youth will take out a peace march in the city. The march will start from Rosario Cathedral Church and culminate at St Aloysius College Grounds, where Justice Kurian Joseph, Supreme Court judge, will address the youth about constitutional rights and duties and also about their responsibility.
 
 Henry D’Souza, bishop of Ballari, chairman  , Fr Deepak Thomas, national youth director, Aloysius Paul Dsouza, bishop of Mangaluru, bishop of Belthangady diocese Lawrence Mukkuzhy and Alwyn Baretto, bishop of Sindadurgh diocese were present.
 
 
