NAGPUR: Acting on a series of   reports on how Nagpur University’s evaluators failed to return excess funds related to examination, the administration of Vasantrao Naik Government Arts and Social Sciences (VNGASS) Institute (formerly Morris College) has sought explanation from its senior lecturer Pramod Lakhe.

 On August 9, TOI first exposed how NU recovered a whopping Rs59.14 lakh from Lakhe, who failed to repay advance taken for examination work for over five years. He was chief of its ‘spot valuation centre’ at exam section in 2011 winter and 2012 summer examinations where he had taken certain amount from NU towards advance, but failed to return it. It was only after NU issued ultimatum to Lakhe and others that they were forced to return the amounts.
 
 The letter dated August 14 seeking explanation from Lakhe was written by director Sunetra Maharaj Patil while referring TOI report of August 9. She asked the lecturer to come up with a clarification regarding contents published in the report within a week.
 
 “We sought explanation from him (Lakhe), but I can’t speak at the moment as I am boarding a bus to Nagpur,” she told TOI before abruptly ending the conversation. Later, her mobile was out of reach.
 
 College officials disclosed that she had gone on leave to   and was supposed to rejoin this week. She had handed over her charge to Lakhe on the basis of his seniority.
 
 Lakhe confirmed that he submitted his detailed explanation to the director. “Obviously, I denied all those allegations levelled against me in the TOI report. It was absolutely not my fault as NU failed to conduct audit for years. In fact, I wasn’t alone in this entire affair. I was unnecessarily targeted by some vested interests,” Lakhe told TOI.
 
 He explained that those involved in the examination work were always granted advance by the university so that exam work shouldn’t be hampered. “An audit of entire expenditure is conducted and any excess amount with those involved in the exam work is returned. We were continuously busy with winter and summer exams so couldn’t really got time to conduct the audit,” Lakhe said.
 
 “The entire system is under huge burden of evaluating over five to six lakh answer sheets, which may have led to further delay in conducting audit,” he added.
 
 TOI had also raised the issue of recovery of interest received by lecturers on keeping huge amounts with them for nearly six years.
 
 Pro-VC Pramod Yeole reiterated that the process to calculate and recover interests from evaluators would commence after approval of NU’s finance committee. “The panel headed by VC SP   would meet soon to discuss the modalities. It comprises pro-VC, finance and accounts officer, and two experts from outside the university,” he said.
 
