MUMBAI: If a   dies in a road  , what is the appropriate method to assess the income and decide on compensation? The Bombay HC in a recent judgment said the question is best answered by considering  . “There is no rigid requirement of accepting either the first or the last, the highest or the lowest (income). If the mandate is to award just compensation, then this has to be seen as something that is reasonable and moderate,” the HC said.

 The HC was hearing an appeal by   against a Motor Accident Claims Tribunal order awarding Rs 26 lakh compensation to the family of   Jitendra Mehtalia. 
 
 In June 2004, Jitendra (54), his wife and daughter were travelling in an SUV in J&K. The driver was driving in a rash manner and the SUV overturned. Jitendra died in hospital. Counsel for the insurance firm, S S Jinsiwale, said there was a trend in the deceased’s income for years where in the first year it started at a high, then it dropped before going up again. The court said, “But a self-employed person may have a widely variable income from year to year. This may be attributable to a variety of reasons: market fluctuation if he is in business, the ebb and flow of consultancy work if he is otherwise self-employed, a sudden dip in income because of illness or temporary incapacity of some kind, and so on.’’
 
 The defence cited SC judgments and said the last reported income should be taken. Jitendra’s highest reported income was Rs 4.45 lakh and the lowest was Rs 1.23 lakh. The compensation calculated on the basis of the average income was arrived at Rs 27 lakh, which included Rs 5 lakh awarded as ‘loss of affection’ for his family. The HC also directed a 7.5% interest per annum on the awarded amount from the date of petition. 
 
 The Motor Vehicles Act’s second schedule provides a structured formula for compensation to accident victims based on age and income. It calculates compensation by applying a multiplier to the victim’s income. The multiplier peaks between 17 and 18 if in the 20-30 age group. The compensation is reduced by 1/3rd in consider-ation of expenses the victim would have incurred towards maintaining himself. It also provides for general damages, including medical expenses.
 
 
