LUDHIANA: Four firemen were seriously injured and five others received minor injuries while tackling a major blaze at a textile mill in the industrial area on Thursday.

 This was the 8th major fire incident in the past 16 days. Four of the incidents have taken place in the industrial area.
 
 The firemen were injured when a gas cylinder exploded while they were dousing flames in the factory. Windows were shattered after the explosion and fire engulfed the entire second floor of the factory.
 
 The fire department received a call about the fire at around 6.50am. All fire tenders from five fire stations were pressed into service.
 
 The fire had broken out at the second floor of Mallika Textile Private Limited where factory guard stayed. The firemen entered the factory from the stairs and started dousing the flames. The officials claimed that they had controlled the fire up to an extent, but a small LPG cylinder lying alongside the boiler caught fire exploded.
 
 After the explosion, other inflammable substances also caught fire.
 
 Firemen who received up to 40% burns were Sudagar Singh, 52; Naresh Kumar, 33; Lovlesh Sood, 27; and Hazura Singh, 56. Hazura Singh is sub fire officer while the rest are firemen in the department.
 
 Hailing from Amritsar, Hazura Singh received injuries on his face, hands and back. Since he is heart patient and suffers from diabetes, he is taking time to respond to the treatment. Others also received injuries on hands and chest. These are under treatment in the burns unit at   and Hospital.
 
 Meanwhile, five other firemen Manpreet Singh, Inderpreet Singh, Pardeep Kumar, Gurcharan Singh and Manohar received minor burns on their hands.
 
 The fire brigade took almost five hours to douse the flames. Dense smoke in the unit created problems in fire controlling exercise. A courier company operating on the ground floor, but fire did not cause any damage to the firm.
 
 Meanwhile, legal adviser of the company Deepak Kanojia said the cause of fire was a short circuit. He claimed that the guard had informed the owners about the fire and even attempted to control the fire with fire extinguishers but he failed. He claimed that stock of garments and yarn worth Rs 8-9 crores was gutted in fire.
 
 On the other hand, assistant divisional fire officer Surjeet Singh claimed that it was difficult to ascertain the exact cause of fire. He said short circuit could be the reason, but the leakage from LPG cylinder as well as boiler could also have triggered the fire. He claimed that unit did not have any fire safety arrangements.
 
 MC commissioner Jaskiran Singh and mayor Harcharan Singh Gohalwaria also visited the CMC Hospital to meet the injured firemen. The MC Commissioner issued Rs 4 lakh for the treatment of the firemen and claimed that MC would bear the entire expenses of the treatment. The commissioner assured that they will provide best medical treatment to the firemen who worked bravely. Firemen would be kept under observation for 72 hours.
 
