Nagpur: Women do not prefer to visit Ram Nagar or Ravi Nagar square after dusk. Reason: Beer shoppers, wine shops and bars. Anti-social elements turn roads into an open bar. Residents have demanded either immediate shifting of wine shops/bars from Ram Nagar, Ravi Nagar and Gokulpeth due to the nuisance.  Drunkards flock the area 7pm onwards. They consume liquor in cars and dump the bottles at Ravi Nagar. As night passes, the inebriated madness takes alarming proportions. The situation is similar at Ram Nagar and Gokulpeth, especially at Coffee House Square. According to residents, fighting or quarrels over trivial issues have now become very common in these areas.  Shopkeepers from Ravi Nagar business complex told TOI that drunkards and other anti social elements indulge in eaveteasing and pass lewd remarks about girls and women on the road. They even terrorize the local businessmen and complainants. “Wine shops have damaged the businesses at Ravi Nagar. The shops should be immediately shifted to other place. Ravi Nagar market should have been one of the best market. It has a nice location and ample parking space,” said a resident.  The business atmosphere at Ram Nagar has been ruined due to the beer shoppers and a couple of wine shops. Women do not prefer to visit our shops. Even men try to avoid visiting our market at night as Ram Nagar become den of drunkards, the businessmen said. “If the government wants to save markets in these three places, it should immediately shift wine shops from here for facelift of the markets. Many times, we have raised the issue with city police and Dharampeth zone of NMC administration but no one takes interest in such disputed matter,” said a resident.  Police commissioner K Venkatesh said: “Police will come down heavy on liquor shops flouting the conditions and running the shop beyond the stipulated time or providing facility to consume liquor. We will suspend the licences of such establishments. “Secondly, we will also come out against illegal liquor shops. We request citizens to be a part of our drive against illegal activities. Kindly provide information on 100. Your name will be kept anonymous and legal action will be taken,” the CP said. 