NAGPUR: “The future of the internet is   to the future of the  ,” said  , deputy   of   (TCS). He was speaking during a lecture on the topic ‘Big data for big impact’ at Institution of Engineers, North Ambazari Road, on Wednesday. 

 The Institution of Engineers, Nagpur centre and Nivrutta Abhiyan Mitra Mandal (MSEB) had organized the talk to mark ‘World Telecommunication and Information Society — Day 2017’.
 
 Kumar said, “In the digital world, design thinking is becoming paramount. A better user experience is major demand which can be obtained by dissecting and getting an insight of the components that the device comprises of. Design will be better when it is simple.”
 
 Emphasizing on big data, Kumar said that there is a lot of data being generated around us through the use of devices, social media etc. “But we need to analyse it and take out the relevant data to make the information more usable and contextual,” Kumar added. 
 
 According to him, people have become increasingly tech savvy in the last few years. Speaking further, he said, “Currently seven billion people are connected to each other through social media platforms. With Internet of Things (IOT), over 50 billion devices are expected to be connected to each other by 2020.”
 
 Saying that the world is making enormous progress and IT engineers are contributing significantly in it, Kumar said, “As engineers, it is our responsibility to understand the real time problems of our countrymen in all fields, be it medicine, transportation or anything else. We have to use our knowledge and make collaborative efforts for a better user experience.”
 
 Discussing about the scenario of engineers in the city, Kumar revealed that the TCS set-up spread across 5.3 acres land in MIHAN has an intake capacity of 10,000 employees and 2500 have already been recruited with a growth rate of 100 members per month. He also encouraged budding engineers to aspire to become data scientists, as it has a huge scope in the future. 
 
 “We at TCS want to bring about reforms in the field of automotives in Nagpur. We will be working on next generation driverless cars and build intelligence compatible with all types of cars,” he said. 
 
 Members of Institution of Engineers, Meera Dhabu, Milind Pathak, PK Kulkarni and MD Date were present on the dais. 
 
