KOLKATA: Some months back, actor   had travelled with two bouncers to Hooghly to attend a rice-eating ceremony. During his 30-minute stay, he cuddled the baby, exchanged pleasantries with the family, watched on as the little one was weaned to solid food. Before leaving, he gladly obliged groupie-hunters too. Basically, he clicked all the boxes in the to-do list of celebrities in Kolkata who are now gracing private parties for a fee.

 Kolkata, which was conservative and didn’t have deep pockets, is now catching up Delhi and Mumbai by embracing this trend. Not just Kolkata, even people in the districts who have deep pockets want celebs at marriages, sangeet,   and  .
 
 Some ten years back a famous Tollywood star had told an event organiser that he would be ready to play a pall-bearer since he needed money. “Anticipating celeb-starved society’s desire to show off connections with the glamour world, he was ready to give his “kandh” to any bereaved high profile family if he was paid Rs 10,000,” said event manager  .
 
 Unfortunately, there were no takers for such an offer. Pall-bearers still don’t come under any package but other family occasions have no such bar. The duration of the appearance can range from 15 to 30 minutes, depending on the negotiations. Such appearances involve no song and dance routines. The celebrity has to be there during the key moment (read cake-cutting or ring exchange), take groupies with the family and exchange pleasantries. Among Kolkata celebrities, lesser-known serial actors might agree to attend such events for Rs 25,000. Popular serial stars can charge Rs 50,000. The price can go up to Rs 10 lakh if the guest is a Tollywood star from the top bracket. “On one occasion, I had taken a superstar to a birthday party that was hosted in a five-star hotel. Last year, I took 23 Tollywood celebs to attend an engagement at a club. However, demonetisation has impacted this sector too,” Sarkar added.
 
 Apart from the rice-eating ceremony, Chatterjee had already attended a dozen weddings and five birthday parties. “These people want celebrity presence to flaunt that they are well-connected. Not just Kolkata, I have been to such weddings in Burdwan and Midnapur too. For me, this is a professional assignment but the family also keeps a gift ready for me to offer at the event,” Chatterjee said.
 
 Popular television star   had attended an event with 22 other Tolly celebs. “Unlike macha shows that can turn risky at times, these functions at high profile venues are safe. Sometimes, we become family friends after attending such dos,” Sen said.
 
 Rupinder Singh, who looks into celeb endorsements of many Tollywood stars including Dev and Raima, admitted that such offers keep coming in. “Celebs are open to it provided the offer goes with their brand image,” Singh said.
 
 Chatterjee points out that even sports personalities have also graced such functions with him. Veteran footballers, including those who have played for Team India, are much sought-after at wedding receptions. Depending on the negotiation skill, the remuneration can range anywhere between Rs 20,000 and a few lakhs. “Kolkatans are fast shedding inhibitions. Even a commoner aspires to get celebs at their functions,” said celebrity brand manager Debayudh.
 
