KOCHI: With the state health department preparing the draft  , both private players and government doctors have shared their set of concerns with the health department.While all major players in the health sector welcomed the Bill and said that it would ensure that hospitals in the state are registered, they didn't rule out the factor of increased treatment cost.

 Indian Medical Association (IMA) is demanding that besides   (NABH) accredited hospitals, even one-man clinics should be exempted from the inspection process. “Our main concern is to ensure how to save the small and medium hospitals that are the backbone of the sector in Kerala,“ said   state president Dr VG Pradeep Kumar.
 
 “Small and medium hospitals and clinics are holding the healthcare cost here. Now, they are fast disappearing. From 1,958 hospitals in 1995, there are just 1,100 hospitals in 2016. The Act is widely expected to further eliminate clinics and small hospitals. People will then have to rely on corporate hospitals and this will lead to exponential increase in healthcare cost. Any new law should ensure the survival and viability of clinics and small hospitals,“ said Dr R V Asokan, chairman,  . IMA is of the view that the clinics can't be asked to treat all patients who approach them. “In a one-man clinic, it is not possible to treat a person who had a heart attack. Rather than treatment, the emphasis must be on first aid. Then, the patient should be referred to a higher set-up. At the national-level, the government has agreed to take up our concerns and we hope the state government will do the same.The health minister has promised discussions once the draft is ready ,“ said Kumar.
 
 Meanwhile, government doctors are concerned that they may not get representation in the state council for clinical establishments. “We hope that just like the private doctors' have representation in the state council through IMA. We too need representation,“ said Kerala Government Medical Officers' Association general secretary Dr Raoof AK. “It is unclear how it be implemented in the government sector. If government decides that only   will be exempted from inspection, then small hospitals will lose out and in the long run treatment cost will increase. Though the aim is to maintain quality, one is unsure whether the purpose will be served. Also, most government hospitals don't have NABH accreditation,“ he said, adding that only four government hospitals and one blood bank have NABH accreditation.
 
 
