MUMBAI: Yet another inmate of the Byculla women's jail informed a special court that she too was beaten by male constables inside prison during the lathi charge following inmate  's death. The court on Friday assured her lawyer Niteen Pradhan it would call for her medical report from prison. She said she was assaulted on both hands and legs by male officers who started a lathi charge on all prisoners. 

 Vaishali Mudale, accused in a corruption case, gave a detailed statement to special trial court judge A D Tankiwale when she was brought to court for the first time since Shetye's death in jail. She was brought for her regular remand but said she insisted on being medically examined and the jail doctor eventually examined her and issued a certificate to the staff. She said no copy was given to her. Mudale said a guardian judge visited but was shown only one barrack. 
 
 Pradhan questioned how a male police contingent was even allowed to enter a women's jail and inside the barracks. He said the police manual provides guidelines on when lathi charge can be resorted to by police. "It can be used for disbursal of an unruly mob for maintenance of public peace." He said when it was a prison and there was "no question of public peace being disrupted" the "use of lathi charge on helpless women inmates inside the barracks is illegal and amounts to sheer brutality."
 
 On Thursday, Mudale and her co-accused Harshada Bendre recounted what they witnessed inside the jail. Mudale said she and Shetye were on "wheat cleaning duty" at 10am on June 23 when four women cops took Shetye to the jailor's office. "After 10-15 minutes I heard her crying out, 'mala vachwa' (save me), 'me maroon jaain' ( I will die), mala konitari sodwa (someone please rescue me)," she said, adding she heard sounds of beating with a stick. "Half an hour later, Manjula and the cop came outside. Manjula, a warden, wears a sari. Her sari was wrapped around her neck. She was wearing a maxi...the police dragged Manjula by her hair, took her to her barrack on the first floor and flung her in her cell." 
 
 One of the women cops in jail, said Mudale, "threatened all that if they behaved like her (Manjula) they would face the same action". She told the court inmates later saw Shetye had "vomitted" and soiled her clothes. The inmates, she said, requested Shetye be seen by a doctor. When they later learnt Shetye was dead, all demanded an FIR be filed against the six women cops. But she said "with no assurances given all decided to protest and climbed on the prison terrace''. She said the jail superintendent was the first person to "assault Indrani on her head with a stick".  , a co-inmate, had earlier said she was beaten and threatened by him.
 
 
