NAGPUR: Thalassemia patients are likely to get NAT-tested blood free of cost from Dr   run by RSS  . The blood bank was already supplying free blood to thalassaemia patients, but any kind of NAT testing used to cost Rs 800.

 The blood bank, which used to operate from Laxmi Bhavan Square is now shifting to a new premises close to  . The building will be inaugurated on Wednesday by RSS chief   at a programme at Ram Nagar Ground.
 
 At present, only Dr Hedgewar blood blank and Lifeline blood bank have NAT testing facility in the city. NAT testing is performed to ensure safe blood transfusion by detecting presence of virus or bacterium in blood specimen. Dr Hedgewar blood bank introduced NAT in May 2016. Since then 45 positive cases have been detected though NAT testing, which otherwise would have caused infection in the receiving patient.
 
 Blood bank secretary   told TOI that they are most likely to enter into an MOU with an organization to fund them to test 1,200 units of blood given to thalassaemia patients. He said, “We may generate around Rs18 lakh annually, which could be invested in giving NAT tested blood free of cost.”
 
 The new four-floor building has been constructed on 7,500 sq ft land. Blood bank president Dr Dilip Gupta said, “The land used to be the residence of Anant Rao Bhide, who had willed the land to us after his death, which would have otherwise cost us Rs20 crore.”
 
 Until now, the blood bank had 1,500 blood unit capacity. In the new building, this blood storage capacity has been doubled to 3,000 units, said Patki. 
 
 He said, “We established the bank on May 9, 1993, with the ideology of helping thalassaemia and sickle cell patients, who will otherwise die without regular transfusion. Hence, we give blood free of cost to thalassaemia and sickle cell patients, while we also support the poor by allowing them to pay whatever they are able to afford.”
 
 In the latest development, the blood bank has also introduced ‘Apheresis’ in the new building. With this machine, while collecting blood, only the platelets will be extracted while the rest of the blood components will be transfused back to the donor at the same time. Single donor platelets are more potent than random donor platelets.
 
