NEW DELHI: An   coming in too fast to land at   recently caused a   when it had to do a go-around —   again — at the last minute. 

 The scare occurred on April 21 when Jet Airways’ Muscat-Delhi flight 9W 597 was coming in to land at IGI’s longest runway (near the Shivji statue) from the Dwarka side. “The ATC cautioned the pilots when Boeing 737 (VT-JGV) was about 4.5 nautical miles (8.3km) from the airport that the aircraft speed was about 310 knot (574 kmph) while its speed at that point should have been almost half at 160 knots, or 296 kmph. The crew told the ATC that they will slow down and that they are coming in to land,” said a source.
 
 Based on this, the ATC cleared another private airline’s aircraft to take off from the runway. Just as this Bengaluru-bound Airbus A-320 was getting airborne, the Jet Airways flight came in to land. But due to its high-speed approach, the Jet Boeing 737 did a go-around.
 
 At this point, both the Jet and the other aircraft were taking off almost simultaneously from IGI and there was a breach of minimum distance that has to be maintained for safety between two planes. 
 
 It is learnt that when the Jet flight was passing at 2,800 feet, the other   was passing 2,400-feet altitude and, at that point, the two were 400 feet apart vertically and just over half a km apart laterally.
 
 Luckily, modern aircraft have   avoidance systems, which tell pilots what manoeuvres to conduct in such a situation, and the two planes flew safely away from each other.
 
 A Jet Airways spokesman said: “In the interest of safety, Jet Airways’ 9W 597 from Muscat to Delhi, of April 21, 2017, executed a go-around manoeuvre to attain the desired approach and landing. During the execution of the manoeuvre, another aircraft was aligned for departure on the same runway and as their activation envelope overlapped, the onboard automatic traffic alert and collision avoidance system issued appropriate guidance to keep both aircraft at a safe distance from each other.”
 
 The spokesperson added: “The flight crew followed the guidance and the flight with 163 guets and seven crew landed safely. The matter was duly reported to the regulatory authorities. The airline is also undertaking an internal investigation and actively cooperating with the authorities.” 
 
 The aviation ministry has termed it as a serious incident and is forming a committee of inquiry.
 
 
