TRICHY: Along with note books, students of   government school have been shouldering a bigger mission while going to school these days. Egged on by their teachers, the children have been uprooting small plants of prosopis juliflora (seemai karuvelam) on their way after coming to know about the water-guzzling roots of the invasive species. Teachers say the students have plucked close to 1.4 lakh karuvelam plants in the past one month and handed them over to the school, thus effectively preventing as many from growing into giant bushes. 

 Teachers say these students are now well aware of the huge challenge that juliflora trees hold by sucking ground water and robbing the soil of its fertility. “My parents are construction labourers. They told me that they were once engaged in agriculture but lack of water had forced them to go for construction work,” said Kishore, a student who uprooted over 8,000 plants in the past one month to ‘top’ the school in this eradication mission. What drives Kishore is his wish to see his parents to take up agriculture as it would help them to be at home when he is back from school. He rarely gets to see his parents who return home from work late and leave early in the morning. 
 
 The primary occupation of people in the Vayyampatti block of Manapparai is construction work. They either come to   every day or move to   and Madurai. However, most of them were engaged in agriculture once and forced to leave it over shortage of water. “Ground water has gone below 1,000 feet in these villages making agriculture hard to pursue,” said the headmaster of government higher secondary school at   M Durai Raj to the gathering of students in the assembly. He further explained that prosopis juliflora is one of the reasons for the drought-like situation in their village.
 
 It all started when headmaster M Durai Raj received a mail from the education department asking teachers to sensitise students on removal of prosopis juliflora. “For many students, it is the prize in the form of pencils and other stationery items that we offer for uprooting seemai karuvelam plants that serves as the incentive,” says PG assistant T Rajasekaran from the school. “We encouraged about 100 students from class 6, 7, 8 and 9 on February 23 to pluck the plants and could collect over 2,300 plants the very next day,” says he.
 
 Gajalakshmi, a student of class 9, said that she was shocked to know that the roots of the plant spread to 30 feet deep inside the soil. She has formed a group comprising her classmates who have decided to uproot plants found close to their houses. 
 
 The students have been asked to carry on the work until first week of April as their annual examination starts after that. Moreover, appreciation is pouring in for the teachers and students of the school from across the state including the chief educational officer of Trichy as well as the district collector.
 
