BENGALURU: The cash availability in Bengaluru seems to have improved with the Reserve Bank pumping in new notes. However, people in rural areas are still reeling under the problem as currency chests are not supplying enough money to rural branches of banks. This, despite the RBI's instructions to ensure 40 per cent of new notes should be supplied to rural areas.

 In the remonetisation move, the RBI infused over Rs 6 lakh crore in new denominations of Rs 500 and Rs 2,000 of which Karnataka's share is nearly Rs 90,000 crore. Central bank officials said this was the main reason for serpentine queues vanishing from ATMs and hoped the situation would further improve.
 
 The infusion of money into the system, however, is yet to change life in rural areas as many banks maintaining currency chests failed in equitable distribution. “When we saw that banknotes being supplied to rural areas are not commensurate with the demand, some steps are being initiated. We're trying to ensure that at least 40% notes are supplied to rural branches of Regional Rural Banks, District Co-operative Centrals Banks and commercial banks,“ said a recent RBI notification.
 
 The RBI asked banks to issue more notes in denominations of Rs 500 and less to ATMs. “The existing stock of other denomination notes below Rs 100 should be issued liberally,“ the notification added.
 
 Farmers' leaders said the RBI advisory has not helped.While farmers are entitled to withdraw Rs 24,000 from their bank accounts every week, they're not getting even a quarter of the limit, said Kuruburu Shantha Kumar, president, All-India Sugarcane Growers' Association. deposited a cheque of Rs 1.5 lakh into his account in an RRB in Beechanahalli after selling his crop. He wanted to withdraw Rs 20,000 to pay a borewell agency , but the bank allowed him to withdraw just Rs 3,000. Elsewhere, a Gadag farmer, who received Rs 2 lakh by cheque for his maize crop, wanted to withdraw Rs 10,000 from his account. He was given only Rs 2,000.
 
 “While the cash crunch has caused many problems, the main concern is about the rural economy being impacted badly . Earlier, farmers did not get crop loans because of demonetization.Now, they're not getting their own money even after the so-called demonetization,“ said Shantha Kumar.
 
 The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard) took note of the issue.
 
 “The currency chests have to comply with RBI instructions and prioritize distribution of currency to rural branches of banks,“ said M I Ganagi, chief general manager, Nabard.
 
 “We've asked RRBs and DCCBs to report regularly on the cash situation. We're getting continuous feedback from all corners, and the situation is improving slowly ,“ Ganagi added.
 
 Farmers' organisations are together taking up the issue and their leaders will meet the Karnataka governor and RBI regional director on January 14. An official in the State-Level Bankers' Committee said a meeting would be convened to take stock of the situation.
 
