THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: On the eve of being sworn-in as chief minister, Pinarayi Vijayan visited the head office of Kairali TV here. That was his birthday too ­ an information he had smartly hidden from the public till that day. At the Kairali office, Vijayan had a surprise guest. Along with channel chairman Mammootty and MD John Britas, `Janapriya Nayakan' Dileep was present. Vijayan, after cutting the birthday cake, was considerate enough to personally give a piece to Dileep.

 On June 28, when Dileep was being subjected to a marathon interrogation at Police Club, Aluva, there was an alleged intervention from the capital city. That intervention halted the interrogation and soon actor Siddique arrived and escorted Dileep out of the club after midnight. There were rumours that Dileep's proximity to Mammootty and the latter's close association with the CPM and CM would provide a safe exit for Dileep out of the crisis.
 
 The arrest of Dileep on Monday evening has disproved all those theories. The freedom the investigators got both from the political leadership and from state police chief   will not only boost the morale of the police force but also instil abundant confidence in common people who have so far been sceptical of 'sharks' being netted by the police. The LDF government, which last week fulfilled the election promise of creating a separate department for woman and child welfare, has sent out a strong message that whoever attempts to attack a woman would be dealt with sternly.
 
 Vijayan's initial stand on the issue, which somewhat bailed out Dileep and put only 'Pulsar' Suni in the dock, earned him brickbats from several quarters.Even after the arrest of Dileep, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala sought a public apology from Vijayan for announcing in public that there was no conspiracy in the case. KPCC president MM Hassan went one step further and demanded that Vijayan should relinquish the home portfolio.
 
 These remarks were promptly answered by CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan who said when the CM made such a remark there was no complaint about conspiracy.
 
 Kodiyeri said there was no interference in the probe and the investigation team decided on everything related to the probe. Incidentally, the first hint of a high profile arrest was also thrown by none other than Vijayan. While speaking at the meeting of representatives of women organisations here on July 5, Vijayan said the probe was on the right track. “However big the fish is, it will be netted by the police," he said. He has walked the talk.
 
