LUCKNOW: The Lucknow bench of Allahabad high court on Friday upheld the conviction and life sentence imposed upon  's former MLA   and his associate Sanjeev Maheshwari for killing BJP's former minister   and his gunner. 

 Dismissing two appeals preferred by the two convicts, a bench of Justice Ajai Lamba and Justice Vijay Laxmi said, " On going through the totality of the evidence, we have no hesitation to affirm the well-merited findings recorded by the court below. The two accused Vijay Singh and Sanjeev Maheshwari were found to have acted in concert and attacked the deceased and injured them with deadly weapons likely to cause death." "The charges are sufficiently proved by substantive and acceptable evidence. The murder, though of a person alleged to be of a mixed record, his gunner and attempt to commit murder of his driver seem to be a calculated one and the manner in which it was got executed by the accused acting in unison in a pre-planned manner to achieve their design, has been rightly held to answer the definition of murder and attempt to commit murder by the trial court," observed the bench on Friday.
 
 The court directed Vijay to surrender before the additional sessions judge , court no 3, Lucknow on June 5 whereas Jeeva is already in jail in another case. While pronouncing the verdict , the court said that the FIR was lodged promptly and there was no discrepancy in the prosecution case . It found that the testimony of three eye witnesses - Sudhanshu Dutt Diwedi, Prabhu Dutt Diwedi and Vijay Kumar Dubey alias Kunnu Mama - along with other corroborative evidence was sufficient to prove guilt of the accused . Dwivedi along with his gunner was murdered on February 10, 1997 when returning from a tilak Ceremony in Farrukhabad. His driver Sher Singh alias Rinku had received serious injuries in the incident. The FIR was lodged with Kotwali police station , Farrukhabad on February 10, 1997 itself by nephew of Sudhanshu Dutt Diwedi . 
 
 The probe was transferred to   on February 10, 1997 itself. The CBI had filed charge-sheet against as many as eight accused. The trail court had framed charges against the accused on January 23, 2001. During the trial, an accused Ramesh Thakur died. The tiral court on July 17, 2003 convicted Viajy Singh and Jeeva for killing Dwivedi and his gunner and also committing murderous assault on his driver, while acquitting other accused persons. 
 
 Vijay and Jeeva had appealed to HC against the trial court verdict in 2003. The appellants had pleaded that there was no adequate testimony to prove guilt of the accused. It was added that the conviction was based on interested witnesses and fractured evidence. Declining the pleas, the HC dismissed the appeals and upheld the conviction and sentences. The court also said that the conduct of investigating agency was not above board. 
 
 "My father had saved BSP chief Mayawati when she was attacked by Samajwadi Party goons at the state guest house in Lucknow in 1995. Today, she is trying to shake hands with the same party whose legislator killed my father," said Sunil Dutt Dwivedi. Sunil was responding after the high court upheld the life term to the prime accused and former SP MLA Vijay Singh for killing his father and BJP leader   Dwivedi. Speaking to TOI, Sunil, BJP MLA from Farrukhabad, said BSP chief Mayawati never realized the favour she got from my father when her life was in danger. In 1995, Mayawati was allegedly attacked by SP men when she withdrew support to the then Mulayam Singh government to join hands with the BJP.
 
 Sunil said his father, an RSS functionary trained in the art of using lathi, countered Mayawati's alleged attackers in the guest house and forced them to flee. Later, the BSP chief referred to Dwivedi as 'brother' on many occasions.
 
 
