CHANDIGARH: If the past summer, monsoon and days after brought unusually high number of venomous Russell's vipers out, Spectacled cobras are the   of the current year's build up to the rains. 

 Tricity's snake catcher Salim Khan has rescued a dozen cobras this summer from tricky spots like an under-construction elevator cavity in an   building and a moist niche under the kitchen sink in   village.
 
 Last year's "snake season" was highlighted by a deadly duo of vipers surfacing on Dussehra in the house of an   employee, Manmohan Nagi, at T-82, Railway Colony, behind Kalagram. One of the vipers bit to death the Nagi family's pet dog, Jimmy, in the afternoon of Dussehra day. Jimmy was no adversary to trifle with as the dog had killed three snakes earlier, before he met more than his match on the day Ravana was slain. Hardly had the Nagis recovered from the trauma and were preparing for the evening festivities when another viper surfaced near the front door, leaving Nagi stranded in the driveway on return from purchase of sweetmeats and crackers. Both vipers were successfully rescued by Khan.
 
 Apart from a number of non-venomous Rat snakes and Wolf snakes, Khan has also rescued the first Common Krait of 2017 from  , Phase II. The krait is India's most venomous land snake and surfaces at night after slithering out from daytime shelters in nooks and crannies of houses. "The cobra I rescued from building A-12 at IT Park had slithered up a water pipe after a man walked into the basement. There was a cavity in the basement roof for an elevator and the cobra climbed into the cavity and 15 feet above the basement floor. It required deft handling and patience to rescue that cobra, which was very hostile," Khan told the TOI.
 
 The Khuda Ali Sher cobra was by contrast, docile, though much longer. That nature in its infinite diversity blesses each specimen with an individuality was underlined by the two cobras hailing from the same species, Naja naja. While the Khuda Ali Sher specimen was four feet, that rescued from IT Park was just two-and-a-half feet in length. The smaller cobra hissed with such ferocity that the tremors jangled human nerves like the effect a cornered lion's roar at close quarters. The smaller cobra also valiantly stood its ground before the bigger one when in captivity before release. Both were rehabilitated in the Tricity's peripheral jungles. 
 
