HUBBALLI: Denied headquarters status, people of   village in Hubballi taluk boycotted the gram panchayat (GP) elections for the fourth time in 10 months. Malligawad GP falls under the   assembly constituency. 

 No candidate from the village filed nominations for the elections scheduled to be held on February 12. 
 
 Thursday was the last date for filing nominations. 
 
 The villagers boycotted the GP election the first time when polls were held on May 29, 2016, on grounds that their demands had not been met. They proceeded to stay away from polls on two more occasions the previous year. The villagers hold both the district administration and state government responsible for the current predicament.
 
 Delimitation of the Koliwad GP resulted in the formation of Umachagi and Malligawad GPs. While both these villages were granted independent GP status, Umachangi was made headquarters of Malligawad.
 
 People of Malligawad have been demanding that the GP either be designated as headquarters or merged with Koliwad GP.
 
 Convener of the Malligawad Gramabiruddi Horata Samanvaya Samiti, Mahesh Pattar told STOI, “The decision to designate Umachagi as headquarters of Malligawad is unscientific.”
 
 He pointed out that Umachagi was not as developed as Malligawad. “Umachagi is 14km away. People will have to travel a lot for even basic services. Moreover, there is no proper connectivity between the two villages since Umachagi does not have basic facilities. This is why we are asking the government to designate Malligawad GP as headquarters or merge it with Koliwad,” Pattar added.
 
 He said that Koliwad, on the other hand, was less than a kilometre away, and had all the required civic amenities such as primary health centre, markets, schools, and good roads. “The population of Malligawad is more than Umachagi’s. The government needs to take all these parameters into consideration,” Pattar said.
 
 Veerupakshappa Bhavikatti, Ramappa Menasinkai and other villagers said that there were six GP posts in Malligawad, and five in Umachagi. “Since we are boycotting the election, all six posts will remain vacant, and there will be no quorum to conduct any meeting or take decisions at the headquarters. We will continue to boycott the elections until our demands are met,” they said.
 
 Navalgund MLA NH Konaraddi said that the state government will have to take a decision on the demand. “People of both the villages are unwilling to compromise. However, I will try to convince the villagers, and resolve the issue,” he added.
 
 Hubballi taluk executive officer Ramachandra Hosaman confirmed that not a single nomination was filed from Malligawad.
 
 
