Panaji: In what could spell further trouble for Congress’ poll campaign in Panaji, former mayor Ashok Naik seems to be dithering over the decision to contest byelections on a Congress ticket against chief minister Manohar Parrikar.

 The former president of BJP Panaji mandal, Ashok Naik, resigned from the party after spending 25 years and was eyed as a credible candidate for Congress to take on Parrikar on his turf.
 
 “I haven't taken any decision yet. Am discussing with my workers and supporters who are from different parties including from BJP. I will inform Congress about my decisionon Monday,” he told TOI on Sunday evening.
 
 But sources close to Naik said he has nearly made up his mind and won’t jump into the fray. Naik has been out of active politics for nearly 10 years and sources say that his supporters, who are politically-connected, tried to dissuade him.
 
 If Naik does bow out of the hustings, it will be a further blow to Congress which is struggling to field a “credible candidate” against Parrikar.
 
 Congress’ first preference and Taleigao strongman Atanasio Monserrate rebuffed the party’s overtures to join Goa Forward Party, while high court advocate Surendra Desai refused to contest. If Naik declines, Congress will have to choose between Yatish Naik, Babi Bagker and “other probables”.
 
 “We are waiting for Ashok Naik’s reply. Officially we have not received any response. I think he is willing to contest but if not, then we will look at other candidates,” Goa Congress president Shantaram Naik said.
 
 Congress is likely to meet on Monday to decide its candidate with Shantaram Naik indicating his desire to announce the candidate soon.
 
 “Since it is a byelection, the names will be cleared faster. The central election committee and the party high command will be informed before the candidates are finalised,” he said.
 
 Like Congress, Aam Aadmi Party is also finding it difficult to convince the desired candidate. AAP insiders said the party was trying its best to convince Dr Oscar Rebello but he has indicated that he was not interested and has refused to contest from Panaji. Valmiki Naik, who contested in the 2017 state assembly elections from Panaji, could be asked to contest against Parrikar.
 
 “The party will be meeting tomorrow to decide the candidate. We don’t have a serious contender in Valpoi, so we may just concentrate on Panaji,” AAP Goa convener Elvis Gomes said.
 
 
