TRICHY/ CHENNAI: A   and sickle were seized from a   a   in Tiruvarur on Monday. The   have launched a hunt for the lorry driver Mohan who is a close associate of notorious gangster P T Ramesh of Ennore, for the illegal possession of weapons which were recovered from the driver’s cabin.

 By the time Tiruvarur police led by DSP V Sugumaran reached the spot, the Ennore police team had left for Chennai along with the seized materials. The Ennore team had arrived around 6am to the Tasmac godown at Vilamal and left the spot in an hour.
 
 DSP V Sugumaran said that they weren’t informed about the arrival of police team from Ennore. “By the time we rushed to the spot following reports in news channels, the team had left for Chennai,” he said. 
 
 Police said Ramesh is the arch-rival of notorious gangster ‘Ennore’ S Dhanasekaran who has been detained in the Trichy central prison. Ramesh was nabbed by the police near Ambattur in Chennai on Sunday. During interrogation, he spilled the beans about his accomplice Mohan who works as a truck driver. The Ennore police registered a case and remanded Ramesh in Puzhal prison. 
 
 Based on Ramesh’s confession, a team traced the lorry bearing the registration number TN-50-K-7264 laden with liquor bottles parked near Vilamal godown in Thiruvarur. Police personnel broke open the cabin and found the sickle and a country-made bomb.
 
 Police said, the bomb and the weapon were concealed underneath the cleaner’s seat behind the driver. Inquiries revealed that Mohan had loaded the consignment from a distillery in Kancheepuram and was headed to Thiruvarur when he was intercepted by police.
 
  Police personnel are on the lookout for the missing driver-cum-henchman Mohan. On interrogation, Ramesh, the cleaner of the truck, told police that the drivers Mohan and Raj left the lorry in his custody and asked him to inform them at the time of unloading. 
 
 Trichy police had arrested Dhanasekaran a few months ago and he has been detained at the Trichy central prison. Preliminary inquiries revealed that Mohan had been working as lorry driver attached to a contractor who transports consignments from manufacturing units to Tasmac depots across the state for the last 10 months. Police are inquiring if he was involved in any criminal activities of late.
 
