CHENNAI: With the business of sports spawing opportunities, a group of professionals including those who worked with IMG and others have floated Skillanation which will train and offer diploma courses on various aspects of sports including how to manage teams,corporate sponsorships, logistics amongst others. 

 Skillanation, in partnership with Indo African Chamber of Commerce and Industries (IACCAI) will launch diploma courses across nine categories on Thursday to ride the sports boom that is sweeping various sports including cricket, hockey, wrestling, basketball, tennis, golf, rifle & pistol shooting, badminton and track & field. 
 
 This follows the success of the football management course launched last year by Skillanation. “The program we ran last year with WIFA proves that there is a demand from the youth and industry for sport specific programs. All European countries have well entrenched vocational apprenticeship based programs such as these for very specific specialities and they are immensely successful as a pathway for employing the youth and improving their productivity. India needs more such programs,” said Shail Kapri, sports educationist.
 
 The global sports market which comprises of infrastructure, events, training and manufacturing & retail of sports goods is estimated at $ 600-700 billion, i.e. about 1% of the world GDP, a report by KPMG said. Sports sponsorship in India grew 19.33% in 2016, to touch $ 941 million, according to the India Sponsorship Report 2017. This represents only a small portion of the ecosystem that sports brings together.
 
 “Earlier, the business of sports was unorganised. Today, rise of annual properties (like IPL, Pro-Kabbadi League et al) and events has allowed businesses to flourish, creating a big opportunity for sponsors, organisers and federations,” said Nilesh Kulkarni, founder & director, International Institute of Sports Management (IISM) which offers graduate, masters and professional programs in sports management.
 
 Kulkarni also attributes the demand for such courses to the burgeoning sports fan base. “From being mostly cricket centric, we are witnessing a huge fan base for other games like football and hockey. Small leagues are seeing good traction,” Kulkarni adds. IISM assures internships and assists with placements. The college has almost 150 companies onboard.
 
 While a job in sports sounds glamorous, experts say it is a matter of perception. “As alluring as it sounds, sports management involves a lot of technicality. One needs expertise in media rights and distribution, sports licensing, e-commerce to name a few,” said Tuhin Mishra, MD and cofounder, Baselines Ventures, a sports marketing firm.
 
 Baseline Ventures has launched ProBaseline, an online sports management course in partnership with Chennai-based Learntron. The 6-8 week course will combine self-learning, live interactions with experts and an internship.
 
 Kapri adds that in an industry that is growing leaps and bounds, having credible skills is a must. “As the world moves towards automation, it is imperative to possess skills which are relevant, especially in a field with high metrics such as sports broadcast, sponsorship and marketing. Skills need to be certified by the federation of a particular sport or industry in which one works.”
 
 
