NAGPUR: With not much time left for campaigning to end, Congress launched a scathing attack on BJP, charging it with failing to deliver on its promises. It also charged chief minister   and union transport minister Nitin Gadkari with misleading slum-dwellers on providing them ownership rights.

 Addressing a press conference on Saturday, Congress leaders Atul Londhe,   and Munna Ojha, raised several questions about BJP’s performance. “BJP wants Nagpur to turn into a smart city. But will Rs 100 crore per year suffice? The state of civic amenities in the city — roads, sewer lines, streetlights — is appalling. How can it be called a smart city,” Londhe asked.
 
 He also charged the BJP-run NMC with shielding corrupt private operators. “When MLC Anil Sole was the mayor, he had ordered lodging of a police complaint against Starbus operator Vansh Nimay. However, even after passage of four years, nothing has been done. The central government had provided 250 buses to Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) under Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM). All of them are gathering dust in a dilapidated condition due to Vansh Nimay’s apathy. The company has also defrauded NMC,” Londhe said.
 
 Slamming the 24x7 water supply project, Muttemwar wondered why people were not getting adequate water even though BJP claims that it has successfully implemented it. “Why are 2,000 tankers required daily to supply water to the city, which actually is water surplus,” he asked.
 
 Londhe further said that a table survey of city slums had not been done by   (NIT) and Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). Photo passes hadn’t been issued to slum-dwellers either. “These are basic requirements for providing ownership rights. It is clear that BJP is misleading the slum-dwellers,” he added.
 
 Congress has not been able to get its act right during the campaign phase. There was lot of animosity between local senior leaders over distribution of party tickets. Former ministers Nitin Raut, Satish Chaturvedi and Anees Ahmed are feeling sidelined and accuse former MP Vilas Muttemwar and city Congress president Vikas Thakre of not taking them into confidence.
 
 The discord touched a new low when the close supporter of a discontented leader threw ink on  , president of Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC), during the kick-off of the party’s poll campaign. Due to this incident, other senior Congress leaders refrained from holding public meetings in the city. The local Congress leaders were left to manage the show on their own. Even during the major events such as release of manifesto, Raut, Chaturvedi and Ahmed did not attend the event. Only Muttemwar, Thakre and their supporters were present. 
 
 The low-key campaign of Congress will continue on Sunday. No major public meetings are scheduled even on the last day of canvassing. The candidates will go door-to-door and then hold corner meetings in the evening after campaigning officially comes to an end.
 
