PATNA: Police arrested eight criminals on Thursday night on the charge of conspiring to   the nine-year-old son of a   for Rs 50 lakh ransom. One of the arrested criminals,  , is a mechanical engineer.

 The other arrested criminals have been identified as Vicky Kumar,  , Gopal Kumar, Sandeep Kumar, Arvind Kumar, Chandu Paswan and Lallu Rai, all residents of Patna and accused in several cases of murder, loot and dacoity in the past.
 
 Patna SSP Manu Maharaaj said one of the friends of junior engineer Vidya Sagar Chaudhary had connived with the gang to kidnap his son, Ayush, a Class III student of St Michael’s High School.
 
 Chaudhary, posted with the road construction department, said his friend Sandeep informed him a few days back that criminals were planning to kidnap Ayush and suggested him to meet Vicky. “Instead of meeting Vicky, I lodged an FIR with Pataliputra Colony police station on July 9,” Chaudhary said, adding Sandeep had also told him that criminals were keeping a close watch on his movements.
 
 Police said the criminals were arrested near Khagri Mor under Danapur police station on Thursday night. “Vicky was also planning to kill his estranged wife Rekha Devi, who is living with another person, along with his associates. During interrogation, the criminals also disclosed that they were planning to attack the owner of a restaurant near Jagdeo Path. Navin Kumar, owner of a paint shop in Chandralok Complex at Rupaspur, was also on the hit list of the criminals,” police sources said.
 
 Vicky told police that the gang was also planning to loot cash from an electricity billing counter at Anand Bazaar.
 
 The SSP said the arrested criminals were in touch with some of their associates lodged in Beur jail and Gaya central jail. He said the same gang had fired at Abdul Rashid Ansari (53), owner of a medicine shop in front of PMCH’s gate number two, on January 28 this year. 
 
 Police said before pursuing mechanical engineering course from Dr M G R Engineering College in Chennai, Tabrej had committed several crimes in Jharkhand. His father Mohammad Ehsaan Mallick is a retired central government employee. 
 
