AHMEDABAD: Gujarat high court has held that a woman can’t accuse her   of rape over a false promise of marriage and desertion. It could at most be a case of cheating because “Chastity may not have money value in the hands of the person cheated, but it definitely has its reputation value”.

 The HC quashed rape charges against a retired police official   in Rajkot brought by a woman, who lived with him for 16 years after divorcing her husband and abandoning two children. Three years ago, after Chavda retired, he dumped the woman. She filed a complaint of rape and cheating for a false promise of marriage and assurance of 50% of his retirement benefits.
 
 As the dispute landed in the high court, Justice Pardiwala observed that Chavda’s act was “extremely shameful because he is a married man and a father of two major children. He is a blot and a complete disgrace to the police department”.
 
 The court further said that the woman was enamoured by status of a police official and greed for immovable property and gold. The relationship continued for 16 years without hindrance or problem. 
 
 Not once in 16 years did she think it fit to remind the accused of his promise to marry her. Hence, it cannot be concluded that the retired cop had committed rape.
 
 The HC discussed in depth the provisions of section 90 of IPC, on what amounts to consent by the woman before sex. “I must, however, hasten to add that mere failure of an accused to keep to his promise of marriage, on a future date, will not be sufficient proof, in the absence of anything more, that the promise made by the accused was never intended to be acted upon by him,” Justice Pardiwala said.
 
 The HC said that the act of dumping a woman after promise of marriage is certainly a case of cheating. “From the period of enactment of the Indian Penal Code, the chastity of woman was regarded as her greatest virtue and asset. Those were the days of chastity and even monarchs in England were reluctant to marry a woman without chastity. Chastity may not have money value in the hands of the person cheated, but it definitely has its reputation value,” the court said and added that definition of cheating includes an act of causing damage or harm to the person deceived.
 
 The HC elaborated it further, “When a woman is induced to part with her chastity or virginity, which is the most valued possession of hers, the person, who induces her by making false representation, would be liable for punishment under Section 417 of the Indian Penal Code for cheating.”
 
 HC’s observation...
 
 Many people today consider marriage solely in terms of biology, sociology or culture. When marriage and family life are viewed in a merely naturalistic manner, they lose all reference to God and are no longer rooted in the absolute values or founded upon divinely ordained truths. One result is that the premarital sex, trial marriage, and cohabitation are commonplace today. Adultery, divorce, and remarriage are treated casually. “Prenuptial contracts” are becoming a popular way to take out economic insurance against a likely future divorce.”
 
 Quoting SC order 
 
 It is for both the man and woman to restrain themselves and not to indulge in intimate activities prior to the marriage. Undoubtedly it is the responsibility, moral & ethical, both, on the part of men not to exploit any woman by extending false promise or through devious acts to force or induce the girl for sexual relationship. But ultimately, it is the woman herself who is the protector of her own body. Promise to marry may or may not culminate into marriage. It is the prime responsibility of the woman in the relationship or even otherwise to protect her honour, dignity and modesty. A woman should not throw herself to a man and indulge in promiscuity, becoming source of hilarity. It is for her to maintain her purity, chastity and virtues”.
 
