Panaji: Work on widening of multiple stretches of NH 17 between Patradevi and Pollem will commence soon with work orders being awarded by the public works department. The total sanctioned cost of the project has been set at Rs 1,487 crore.  Explaining details of the various sections into which the work has been divided, superintending engineer V P Verenkar said that part of the two-lane highway from Patradevi to Bambolim will be widened under two parts.  “The 42km stretch between Patradevi and Bambolim has been divided in two sections. The first stretch, from Patradevi to Karaswada, is 25km long while the second stretch, from Karaswada to Bambolim, is 17.5km. A budget of Rs 635 crore has been sanctioned for the first section while the second section has been sanctioned Rs 852 crore,” Verenkar said.  The PWD has issued a letter of acceptance for the first section of the project while a work order has already been issued for the second section. “Following the letter of acceptance, the tendered company has to give a performance guarantee. Only after this will we issue a work order. The deadline set for both sections is two years from the commencement of work,” Verenkar said.  Under the multi-crore project, the national highway is slated to be widened from its current two-lane structure to four lanes. This will allow vehicles to cruise at a speed of 80 to 100 kmph. The project will also bring in a new bridge at Colvale and multiple elevated corridors at Porvorim, the Green Park junction at Guirim, and the Binani junction at Colvale. The project will also include a vehicular underpasses all along the highway.  PWD officials also said that three bridges, at Talpona, Galgibaga and Mashem have also planned in the state-wide expansion of the highway. Currently, widening work on specific stretchs of the highway, where land has already been acquired, is being undertaken. Once all land acquisition is complete, the entire 137 km stretch will be expanded to four lanes. The department is also likely to be entrusted with the development work for NH 4-A, which is currently with the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI).