When it's the FIFA World Cup, for the Indian fans it's usually either Brazil or Argentina. In the U-17 World Cup here however, there won't be a Brazil-Argentina divide because the latter will not be there. It's the fourth time in 17 editions that   haven't made it to the main round with the Albiceleste denying fans in India another chapter in the famed South American rivalry.

 In order to make it to the 2017 edition, Argentina needed to finish among the top four teams in the final stage of the U-17 Conmebol Championships. But they failed to qualify for the final stage of the South American qualifiers with their only win coming against bottom-placed Peru in the first stage. Unfortunately, it's not just a blip in their performance graph. Argentina have struggled consistently in various age-group competitions ever since they finished fourth in the 2013 U-17 World Cup.
 
 Argentina, though, are not the only heavyweights missing. European giants  , the Netherlands along with 2016 Euro champions   have also failed to qualify.
 
 The record of Portugal, who had last qualified in 2003, is also dismal. In three appearances, they had made it to the semis only once, which was back in 1989. However, with their colts emerging champions in 2016 U-17 Euro Championship, one expected them to book the World Cup berth. But, much like Argentina, they failed to qualify for 2017 Euros, which was the first step to reach this World Cup. The 2017 Euro semi-finalists, along with the winner of the play-off between the two best losers from quarter-finals would have qualified for the 2017 World Cup from UEFA. A lesser number of teams (24) at the U-17 World Cup in comparison to the senior World Cup (32) also make qualification tougher. While only four South American teams are allowed in U-17 World Cup, it's just five from Europe.
 
 Elsewhere, it is the age-fraud that punctured de fending champions Nigeria's, chances of booking the U-17 World Cup ticket. Here, the P Golden Eagles are the most successful team with a record six titles since the tournament started in 1985. In fact, they won the last two U-17 World Cups. But when 26 players out of their 60 were found to be over-aged ahead of their U-17 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier against Niger, it was all but over them.
 
 What was more humiliating for the African giants was that only two players from the first XI were eligible for the match. Niger iawent on to win easily, thereby bringing a premature end to the defending champions' qualification campaign. The Indian fans, so starved of quality international foot ball, would have loved to witness a flashy little Argentine 7 teenager, or an Italian in the   mould, but well, that's not to be!
 
