AHMEDABAD: A team of Paldi police arrested 29 students of the   (NID) in a raid on an apartment in Paldi, 200m away from the institute, at 1.30am on Saturday. Police took the accused for medical check-ups on Saturday morning. 

  The incident sent a shockwave through the NID campus even as hostel staff visited the police station to inquire about the police procedure. Officials remained tight-lipped about whether action would be taken against the students.
 
 Investigators said city police control room received a call at 1.15am on Saturday complaining about sustained loud music blaring out of an apartment at Pushkar II near Rajnagar Crossroads as a liquor party was under way there. As the message was relayed to a police control room (PCR) van and subsequently to Paldi police station, a team led by sub-inspector M P Chavda visited the spot.
 
 “The team got there at 1.30am and found the apartment full of young students partying. Police searched the premises in the presence of independent witnesses and found five bottles of IMFL. Identification of the youths revealed that all of them are students of NID. Some even stay in the NID hostel,” said an investigator.
 
 They added that the accused includes a 20-year-old student from South Africa. Three of the accused from other states had procured permits when they came to Gujarat but these had expired, said officials.
 
 Police named a 20-year-old native of Pune as the prime accused, as he had rented the apartment, procured the IMFL and hosted the party.
 
 Office-bearers of the Pushkar II housing society said the apartment belongs to a petrol pump owner and had been rented out three days ago. “Of the 20-odd apartments in the building, five have been let out to  . They do party and have erratic timings but this is the first time such an incident was reported here,” said a resident of the society.
 
 An official statement issued by the NID said: “Regarding the police raid conducted yesterday evening, we wish to inform you that no such matter is tolerated at the NID and laws are strictly followed by the NID. The said incident happened outside the campus in a private residence where the NID has no legal authority. The NID is and will remain committed to extending all the cooperation to the law enforcement authorities in this matter.”
 
 Cops play it close to the chest
 
 B S Rabari, in-charge inspector of Paldi police station, and K M Chavda, ACP N Division, remained tight-lipped about the incident through the day and insisted that the information could only be given after permission from senior officers. Rabari and Chavda also remained incommunicado about medical reports and remand applications as the accused were presented before the magistrate for bail within 12 hours of the case, much earlier than time limit ran out. Sources said police fear students from influential backgrounds are involved and do not want to take any risks.
 
 Girls ‘taught’ police the law
 
 The police team raiding the apartment went red-faced when girls refused to cooperate with their questioning or accompany them to the police station. Sources said the girls told the policemen that if a woman is to be apprehended, the procedure must be done by a woman cop. Police had to call Rekha Dahyabhai, police constable, at 1.45am, to the spot to start the procedure.
 
