HYDERABAD: In what could provide a much-needed boost to India's   (TB) by 2025, researchers from the University College of  , Kakatiya University in Warangal, have discovered   in a   that thrives in Hyderabad and some parts of the world.

 The research team, led by  , tested the bacterial strain, Streptomyces luridus, obtained from soil in Telangana. They isolated an antibiotic, spiramycin, from the bacteria. The team tested spiramycin on the TB bacteria,  , in a laboratory.Tests revealed that spiramycin effectively inhibited the growth of TB bacteria which has developed resistance to some drugs. Later, Kishan and his group compared the efficacy of spiramycin with rifampicin, which is a known anti-TB drug. Spiramycin was found to be as effective as rifampicin.
 
 “This is the first time that spiramycin was tested for mycobacterium tuberculosis. Spiramycin is a known antibiotic but it is not prescribed for treatment of tuberculosis. Spiramycin, produced from Streptomyces luri dus, may be used in future to treat drug-resistant tuberculosis cases. It will also serve as an alternative to rifampicin,“ Kishan told TOI. His team comprised S Anuradha, S Bhama and K Shravan Kumar. Leading scientific journal, Nature, reported the research finding.
 
 The Kakatiya University's study gains significance as TB has developed resistance to a number of drugs. Multi-drug resistant (MDR) and totally or extensively drugresistant (XDR) TB have emerged as a major challenge to health planners, researchers and doctors.
 
 Kishan said the central government should fund further research on spiramy cin to find its effectiveness in TB patients. “Our results are based on lab tests (in vitro). We need money and permission for the in vivo (clinical tests),“ he added.
 
 “Tuberculosis can be treated using the first line drugs, which include rifampicin. But the first line therapy often fails to cure TB. Patients, who fail treatment, have a high risk of death,“ he said.
 
 The team also studied another bacteria, Streptomyces xinghaiensis, which produces antibiotic reductiomycin. It too has antitubercular activity too. Streptomyces luridus is also effective against drug-resistant bacteria like klebsiella and staphylococcus species.
 
