BHUBANESWAR: Imagine the plight of those appearing for their  , who were forced to skip Holi and had to study extra hours as they had to sit for their maths paper on Tuesday. Now imagine the plight of those who prepared for maths but were handed the   itself. It not only created   but also affected several students who complained that their maths paper didn't go well. 

 This is what happened on Tuesday at the Plus II exam conducted by the   (CHSE) when in at least 14 colleges across the state chemistry paper was given to examinees on a day scheduled for mathematics.
 
 The exam centres managed the day with photocopies of maths papers arranged from nearby centres while some were supplied extra copies from the   (EMH). 
 
 School and mass education minister   has announced rescheduling of the chemistry exam paper from March 16 to March 30. The exam will now start from 2pm. 
 
 The CHSE authorities blamed the staff at the printing press, where the question papers were printed, packed and sealed, for the blunder.
 
 "The printing press where question papers are printed also looks after its packaging as per the centre, subject and schedule of the examination. The question paper packets are sent to the examination hubs directly from the press and kept there amid tight security. There must have been some mistake during the packing of question papers at the press. An inquiry has been ordered into the matter," CHSE controller of examination, Biranchi Narayan Mishra, said. 
 
 Sources said the question paper packets were opened at 9.30am in the presence of an official from the district administration, the superintendent and three other officers. 
 
 "Just before distributing the question papers among the students at 9.45am, the officials noticed chemistry written on them. We immediately informed the EMH and council authorities about the problem," said Debashis Jena, principal of BJB Junior College in Gadarodanga village, Puri district. Similar problems were reported from the examination centres in 10 different districts including Balasore, Balangir, Cuttack, Dhenkanal, Ganjam, Nuapada, Koraput, Puri, Jharsuguda and Sundargarh. 
 
 "Nobody knew what to do and we sat idle in the examination hall for around 90 minutes, after which we got photocopies of the mathematics paper," said an examinee of Niali College. The incident has caused resentment among parents and students, who demanded re-examination of the maths paper. "This is an example of sheer callousness. Who will be responsible for the stress and anxiety of the students. And this is not for the first time, CHSE had committed such blunders earlier too.," said Minaketan Sahu, father of a student.
 
