BHUBANESWAR: Amid allegations and introspection,   on Saturday blamed the arrogance of many of his party colleagues behind the BJD's below par performance in the ongoing  .

 Talking to the media here, the   said over-confidence of some the leaders, which later turned into arrogance, is one of the reasons behind party's poor show as is the the number of aspirants for the posts of  .
 
 "Even though the sarpanch and samiti members are not fighting on party symbol, all political parties field candidates that they support. The number of aspirants from the ruling party was more. When they did not manage to get the support of local BJD MLAs, they turned rebel and upset the BJD's equation," Satpathy alleged.
 
 Though he claimed the results of the panchayat election would have no impact on the 2019 general and assembly polls, Satpathy, a former minister, admitted it was high time the party analyses the situation on the ground.
 
 Satpathy's statement comes three days after party vice-president and cabinet minister Damodar Rout's statement that most of the BJD MLAs have lost credibility in their areas.
 
 Kendrapada MP Baijayant Panda echoed similar sentiments. "& who's to blame for rest of Odisha? In Kendrapada, public has punished a grp doing dadagiri (remember they even tried2 obstruct my rally?)," Panda tweeted a couple of days back. It seemed a dig at Mahakalapada MLA Atanu Sabyasachi Nayak, with whom he does not share a good rapport.
 
 BJD insiders claimed Naveen may go for a massive overhaul of the party's organizational structure after the budget session of the state assembly, which starts on February 22.
 
 "Those ministers who could not ensure the party's victory in their bastions could be shown the door," a party source said.
 Meanwhile, encouraged by the party's unexpected success in the rural poll, Union petroleum minister   said the people of Odisha have given a befitting lesson to self-conceited BJD leaders.
 
 "Poor people don't tolerate arrogance. Leaders who described the BJP as dengue got befitting reply from the people affected with malaria and Japanese Encephalitis," a visibly elated Dharmendra told reporters here in an indirect attack on Damodar Rout and Debi Prasad Mishra in whose areas, Jagatsinghpur and Cuttack, respectively, the BJP has done well. On Thursday, Rout had compared the saffron outfit with dengue.
 
