KOLHAPUR: The workshop organised by Maharashtra state khadi and village industries board on Friday could not meet the concerns of Kolhapuri chappal makers.

 The artisans complain that none of the major grievances were answered during the workshop. Kolhapuri chappal maker,   from Bahireshwar village in Karveer taluka told TOI, “Good quality leather remains to be a major concern for the chappal making community. The leather supplied to us is chemically processed and of low quality. Earlier, when there was no ban on cow slaughtering, we had no issues with the quality of the leather. Now, the Kolhapuri chappals made of poor leather that is uncomfortable and can hurt your leg. The looming business has seen a steep fall and our business might shut down if the government does not address our concerns immediately.” 
 
 The Khadi and village board minister   said, “ The chappal makers must   and measures with time. They must do some research work and find out the best way to make softer chappals. It is sad but despite adversities these chappal makers are struggling to sustain their art. We need to push and get patent for Kolhapuri chappals to be able to recognise the hardwork they put in. We are seriously thinking to stabilise the household industries like chappal making.” 
 
 A participant and chappal maker   said, “We are facing problems starting from the raw material to the finishing product. The new generation does not want to join this business as it hardly pays for a decent livelihood. Moreover, traders eat out a major portion of our income. They buy the chappals at lower price and sell it out with a good margin of profit.”
 
 Another participant said, “Workshop was a time consuming exercise and it was not even fruitful. They had nothing for common small chappal makers like us. They gave us information on digital marketing. But our real demands are different and that remained out of the discussion. The government should provide unconditional loan for chappal makers like us. Our patent right issue must also be addressed. Many people have already copied our business which should be stopped.” 
 
