THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The   here dismissed the petition against chief secretary   alleging that the chief secretary hoarded files recommending action against senior officials.

 The vigilance court dismissed the petition by  , a native of Thiruvananthapuram, citing that hoarding of files will not come under the purview of Prevention of Corruption Act. 
 
 The petition had alleged that the chief secretary has been delaying action on many files from the vigilance and anti-corruption bureau that recommended action against several senior officials.
 
 The court had also asked VACB to give its comments on the petition earlier on which the agency had produced some of the recommendations made to the chief secretary. Meanwhile, the court criticised district government pleader   who appeared for the chief secretary in the court. 
 
 The court criticised the pleader asking that on what grounds did he appeared before the court when it was not yet decided to order a probe or a case was registered on the petition.
 
 The petitioner had also alleged that the chief secretary has been leaking all relevant documents to the accused from the reports against them and committed serious criminal offence in hoarding the reports and sabotaging the proof provided by vigilance director Jacob Thomas and additional chief secretary (home and vigilance) Nalini Netto against corrupt officials.
 
 In another case, the vigilance court asked the agency to file a report within 45 days on a petition by Kerala Congress (Scaria Thomas) leader A H Hafiz that the probe into the appointments of relatives during the tenure of UDF government is being toppled.
 
 The petitioner had sought a probe against former finance minister K M Mani, former food and civil supplies minister Anoop Jacob, former health and devaswom minister V S Sivakumar and former SC/ST and tribal development minister P K Jayalakshmi.
 
 In addition, the complaint also sought a probe against current Kovalam MLA M Vincent and former MLAs R Selvaraj and Ummer Master. 
 
 The petition had alleged that several of the close relatives of the ministers and MLAs, who does not have the required qualifications, have been posted in several government organisations which is a crime under the Prevention of Corruption Act.
 
 
