PUNE: As many as six swine flu patients admitted to various hospitals in the city are in critical condition and have been put on ventilator support.

 “A total of six patients detected with swine flu are currently critical. They have been put on ventilator support at different hospitals in Pune city. Most of these patients either have other associated medical conditions or they delayed in seeking medical treatment despite being ill for some days,” S T Pardeshi, medical officer of health,   (PMC), told TOI.
 
 The   virus has claimed 10 lives and infected over 50 people in the state since the beginning of this year. A majority of these cases have been reported from cities like Pune, Nashik, Solapur, Aurangabad and Nagpur. 
 
 In Pune alone, the virus has claimed four lives and infected 35 people. This prompted the state health department to call for a review meeting of experts on Monday. “We have convened a meeting of all experts to review the perceptible rise in swine flu cases in Pune. We will issue fresh instructions to civic health authorities to contain the spread after deliberating with the experts. The meeting in this regard is scheduled on March 6,” a state health official said. 
 
 A significant rise in swine flu cases can be attributed to the huge difference in day and night temperatures over the last few days. The temperature fluctuation enables infections to enter the body easily as the body loses its ability to adapt readily to an environment that is constantly changing from being too hot to being too cold and vice-versa.
 
 “And those with weak immune system or with underlying medical conditions like diabetes and hypertension develop complications,” senior paediatrician  , former vice-president of the state chapter of  , said.
 
 Swine flu — just like any other flu — is a respiratory infection. It exploits a weakened immune system to attack major organs, especially lungs. When it gets into the lungs, it can lead to pneumonia that can be fatal. The flu can also cause secondary infections to the body — any of which can lead to failure of vital organs and death.
 
 Experts said people should continue to take precautions in terms of basic sanitation practices like frequent hand washing, good diet and healthy habits as the virus is still infecting people. People with co-morbid conditions should be more vigilant.
 
