NAGPUR :   was the one to be the most surprised during her   at the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s Civil Lines headquarters on Friday morning. She found nearly 65% of officials had not reported for work by the scheduled time of 10am.

 Municipal commissioner   had on May 6 found 562 of the 830 NMC personnel reporting late to office and got notices issued to all. It seems to have had no effect.
 
 According to official sources, the mayor asked assistant municipal commissioner Mahesh Dhamecha, who is also the general administration department (GAD) head, to accompany her during the inspection. She later directed him to mark half-day absent for the latecomers.
 
 Senior officials, including deputy municipal commissioner Ranjana Lade, chief accounts and finance officer Madan Gadge and others, were not present in their chambers when Jichkar was taking stock.
 
 “The casual approach of the employees will not be tolerated and they should learn to be punctual,” said Jichkar.
 
 Having for years failed to get the staff come at the scheduled hour, the NMC had installed biometric attendance machines across its zonal offices and headquarters. Initially, the response was good. 
 
 But with the administration failing to maintain the machines, the NMC employees took advantage of it and started reporting late. Citizens would find officials missing whenever they would come to the office to make complaints and often resorted to complaining.
 
 “After the biometric system was put in place, all employees, including the head of the departments and assistant municipal commissioners, had to record their outgoing time too,” a source said. 
 
 Jichkar was also peeved at the filthy premises and warned action against GAD officials if they fail to maintain cleanliness at the NMC’s headquarters. Some staff members had complained to her about the lack of hygiene.
 
 The voluminous files kept haphazardly in the accounts department caught the mayor’s attention. Jichkar directed the officials to keep them in safer place. 
 
 She also issued directives to expedite interior work of the new administrative building. The construction of the eight storey building started in 2004 and was completed in 2006. The interior works have been completed on only two floors. 
 
 Jichkar directed Dhamecha to put up a display board listing officials heading various departments.
 
 The GAD, later on Friday, issued notices to 19 staff from accounts and finance department, 19 in cattle pound department, 52 in education, 2 in enforcement department, 17 in garden department, 88 in GAD, 85 in health department, four in library department, 12 in market, 18 in octroi, two in Pench project cell, 25 in public works, 87 in head office, 20 in slum, 3 in social welfare, 36 in tax department, 17 in town planning department, 49 in water works department and 3 in workshop department, respectively.
 
