Mumbai:   has tied up with IIT-Bombay, IIT-Roorkee and Centre for Innovation Incubation and Entrepreneurship (CIIE) at the IIM-Ahmedabad to mentor and hand-hold   startups from those institutions.

 The bank plans to launch partnerships with 50 institutes. The objective is to identify potential fintech ideas at entrepreneurship cells in these institutes at a nascent stage.
 
 According to Nitin Chugh, head (digital banking) at HDFC Bank, the bank has been a pioneer in partnering with fintech startups. Several innovations by the bank are an outcome of its Digital Innovation Summit where fintech teams are challenged to come up with solutions. The bank’s artificial intelligence- (AI-) driven chatbot Eva was an outcome of one such challenge. Chugh said that the bank was looking at fintechs to come out with solutions that will ‘hyper personalise’ the bank’s engagement with customers.
 
 Besides mentoring the young entrepreneurs, HDFC Bank will also provide them access to the lender’s domains to test new products in the absence of finance laboratory.tnn
 
 “Normally the academic research ends at the proof of concept stage with a few scholarly publications and rarely does one find these ideas maturing into a product, or a prototype ready for adoption. Sustained interaction with industry can lead to a more focused approach toward academic research and encourage taking the next logical step to product development and testing,” said Manish Shrikhande, Dean — incubation and innovation at IIT-Roorkee.
 
 According to Anand Kusre, head, Desai Sethi Centre for Entrepreneurship, IIT-Bombay, a large number of engineering students move into financial services. He said that   Bombay is piloting projects on socially relevant schemes like cashless society. “New technology developments are essential for attaining high-priority objectives like inclusion, superior customer servicing and scale. BFSI and Institutes of Technology therefore need to work together to apply new tools to create high value propositions,” said Kusre.
 
 The partnerships have been entered into by HDFC Bank’s   ( ). Besides industry academia partnerships the center is responsible for the Digital Innovation Summit — where challenges are thrown to fintech companies to come up with solutions. The centre has also recently launched the bank’s Digital Dashboard.
 
 
