In the latest episode of  , Preeta (Anjum Fakih) and her sister   (Shraddha Arya) are seen taking care of their drunk father. Preeta asks Srishti to take care of the guests as she would go inside and help her father wash up.
 
  Deepak arrives with his family and greets Preeta and her father. He tells Preeta that he would not let her go so easily for the previous day and asks her to meet him in the evening that day. Preeta gets annoyed.
  
  Deepak's mother asks Raghuveer he has got the property papers made or not, he gets the papers and hands them over to her. She says that she would take care of both his daughters and with this money, she would help his son set up his business which would be beneficial for his daughter only. Srishti sees them and asks them what is going on. Srishti starts shouting and says that she knows that he is giving all their property and money to Deepak's mother. Preeta sees her shouting and asks about what's going on there. Srishti starts shouting and creates a scene at the function. She tells Preeta everything.
  
  Preeta asks Deepak if he was aware of the fact, and he says that he knew about it and that such things happen at weddings. She calls off the wedding and says that she doesn't want to marry a man who wants their property. Deepak gets angry and feels insulted in front of everyone and then he vents his anger out at Preeta and leaves from there. Everyone else also leave.
  
  
 
  
  Raghuvir comes and starts blaming Srishti for breaking up Preeta's marriage, when Srishti asks him to sit down as she would make a whisky peg for him. She takes out the bottle from his pocket and is shocked to see a medicine bottle. Raghuvir faints and falls on the ground. The two sisters take him to the hospital, where they are told that their father has brain cancer, and that he is in his last stage.
  
  Before giving up all hopes in life, Raghuvir tells Srishti and Preeta about their mother Sarla and elder sister Pragya. He gives them their Mumbai address and asks them to go live with them.
  
  Srishti and Preeta reach Mumbai and it starts raining as soon as they step down from the train. She looks at the address given to them by their father, but Srishti throws it away. Srishti sells off their house and pays off all his father's loans.
