NAGPUR: The general image of Congress is that of a secular party that accomodates minorities while BJP is considered a  . However, in this   (NMC) election, there are three seats where Congress, partly by design and partly by accident, has fielded three non-Muslims against Muslim candidates of BJP. All three seats have significant Muslim population.

 Sunita Dhole of Congress is contesting against Naseem Bano Khan of BJP from seat 3D. Similarly, Kunda Khobragade is in fray against Rabia Qureshi from 6C seat and Arvinderpal Singh ‘Babbi’ Bawa is contesting against Mohammed Farooq Sheikh. In fact, three of the four BJP’s Muslim candidates are contesting against non-Muslims fielded by Congress.
 
 Former MP   feels even though BJP has fielded Muslims, the community would still vote for Congress. “We have given adequate representation to the community by fielding 15 Muslims. Dalits and Muslims will overwhelmingly vote for Congress this time. We fielded candidates not on the basis of community but by taking into account the work they did for the party,” he said.
 
 Muttemwar, however, admitted that one of the three non-Muslim candidates is in the fray by accident. “Shazia Ansari had sought ticket from 3D seat. However, she has three children and we felt her nomination might be rejected. Sunita Dhole also sought a ticket and was given a B form. Ansari later got an order from court okaying her candidature but Dhole had filed her papers by then and hence became our official candidate,” he said.
 
 The Congress leader said, in other places party workers of other communities had been denied tickets to accommodate Muslims. “Arun Dawre had sought ticket from 11D but some Muslim community leaders requested us to give ticket to Owais Kadri, the president of Congress minority cell. We complied with their request,” he added.
 
 Lokmanch candidate Babbi Bawa, contesting on a Congress ticket, is pitted against Mohammed Farooq Sheikh. Bawa is confident of bagging Muslim votes. “My wife (sitting corporator Ravinder Kaur Bawa) and I have done a lot of work for the Muslim community and they will vote for me due to this,” he told TOI.
 
 Sheikh, however, is confident that all Muslims votes of Ward 9 will be polled by him. “Muslims are very happy that BJP has given a ticket to me. The community leaders have declared their support to me,” he said.
 
