SURAT:   (FSL) in its report says that the yellow powder in crystal form which was seized from a bootlegger of   in December 2016 happens to be the main ingredient of Dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane ( ), an insecticide. 

 The bootleggers mix the yellow chemical with another white powder which was a mixture of three chemicals, including limestone powder, to make liquor. The deadly concoction was being sold as toddy by them in parts of the district. Police have since December last seized similar powders from four locations in Surat district. 
 
 Forensic examination of two different powders revealed that the yellow powder in crystal form was chloral hydrate, which can prove lethal if consumed by a human. Bootleggers mixed it with another white powder which was a mixture of limestone powder, carbonate and titanium. Experts say adding this white powder to chloral hydrate speeds up fermentation and it can give a high to anyone drinking it.
 
 Police had seized 9kg of chloral hydrate and 1.5kg of white powder from Aanjaiya Maliya Gaud, who was arrested from an area under the limits of Mandvi police station in Surat district in December 2016. He told police that he had mixed the two powders in water to make liquor before selling it as toddy. Gaud told the police that he had bought the powder from Telangana and it involved no risk as no one knew it will be used to make liquor.
 
 “If chloral hydrate — trichloroacetaldehyde hydrate is used for making liquor and consumed, it can be fatal for human beings. There are many uses of this chemical, but it is mainly utilized for making DDT,” said K C Patel, head of chemistry department in Veer Narmad South Gujarat University (VNSGU).
 
 “The FSL report findings are shocking and there is a need to ensure strict implementation of prohibition laws. We had recovered similar materials from four places in Surat district. This material is a popular intoxicant known as toddy among people in this area,” said Nirlipt Rai, superintendent of police, Surat.
 
 
