JAISALMER: After a long wait of 16 years, Jaisalmer will once again be connected with other places through air service. SpiceJet airlines will start the service from October 29 which will be between Delhi, Jaipur, Jaisalmer and Udaipur. This information has brought cheers among foreign tourists, businessmen and the local public.

 SpiceJet officials said two flights of SpiceJet will start from October 29. One flight will be from Jaisalmer to Delhi while the other will be from Jaisalmer to Jaipur and also to Udaipur. Now, Jaisalmer will be connected to Jaipur, Delhi and Udaipur via air service. This will also help devotees going to Nathdwara near Udaipur, and also tourists going to Udaipur.
 
 The official said that the first flight SG 2981 will start from Jaipur at 11am and will reach Jaisalmer at 2.25pm and the tariff will be Rs 2,329. Similarly, flight SG 2983 will depart from Jaisalmer at 12.45pm and reach Delhi at 2.35pm and fare will be Rs 3,054. The other flight SC 2984 will depart from Delhi at 3.20pm and reach Jaisalmer at 4.35pm and fare will be Rs 3029. The same flight will depart from Jaisalmer at 4.55pm and reach Jaipur at 6.15pm and depart from Jaipur at 6.40pm and reach Udaipur at 7.50 pm. The fare from Jaisalmer to Jaipur will be Rs 2,280. Booking has been started.
 
 Confirming this Barmer and Jaisalmer MP Sonaram Choudhary who had raised this issue many times in Lok Sabha said SpiceJet has announced to start air services.
 
 He said that the this will help the tourist sector and local public, private companies and also defence personnel will benefit from this this.
 
  director Rajiv Punecha confirming this said SpiceJet will fly a 70-seater plane from Delhi to Jaipur and to Jaisalmer. He said the booking has also started.
 
 He added that all preparations have been completed at Jaisalmer civil airport including security arrangements. Recently 70 RAC jawans were trained by experts at the airport. Scanner and other security equipment have been installed for baggage checking etc.
 
 It is to be mentioned that airports were built worth crores of rupees at Jaisalmer and Bikaner but have not been operational, hence many modern equipment installed here have been damaged. Airport authority was spending lakhs of rupees every year in maintenance and on staff. In Jaisalmer the airport was built for Rs 100 crore. Every year 6 lakh tourists come to Jaisalmer and the demand for air service was more among the Army, Air Force, oil companies, wind and solar energy companies,  .
 
 For tourists the air service was available between delhi-jaisalmer and Bombay-jaisalmer from 1996 to 2001. The service was stopped temporarily due to tension with Pak.
 
 Many tourists due to no air service do not come to jaisalmer despite want to come and shortage of time. But with starting of air service there will be boost in tourists.
 
