GHAZIABAD: Goods worth Rs 5 lakh were stolen from a flat in   in Ghaziabad on Friday night. The flat belonged to Jyoti Sinha, a lawyer at Delhi high court, and her husband  , an IT professional, who lived there with their two teenage sons. 

 The family was on vacation in Jaipur when the robbery took place.
 
 Four gold rings, two gold bangles, two gold coins, gold earrings, a gold chain, five laptops, four new wristwatches, a pair of silver anklets and Rs 90,000 were stolen by unidentified miscreants.
 
 “At 9am on Saturday, I received a phone call from my domestic help Monika, who told me both the wooden and metal front doors of the flat were open when she arrived for work,” said Jyoti Sinha.
 
  “The latch was cut open and the lock on the door was missing. They opened all drawers in the six cupboards and both steel and wooden almirahs, and the belongings were scattered all around. Even the bed storage units were opened and contents of lockers scattered all over,” she added. The family reached home around 3.30 pm on Saturday and informed cops.
 
 Sinha said they suspected the society’s security guards in the crime, as they had not told anyone about their Jaipur trip. “We did not even inform our maid about it, as it was an impromptu plan. Only the society’s security guards saw us leaving on Friday morning,” said Sinha.
 
 Atul said the thieves could have entered the society pretending to be invitees to an ongoing marriage ceremony in the society. They hoped the crime was recorded on security cameras installed by residents of another flat on the same floor. The CCTV footage will be checked once the owners of that flat are back.
 
 Pradeep Tripathi, SHO of Indirapuram, said, “We are trying to investigate people who have been earlier held in similar cases. The CCTV footage from security cameras of the society will also be reviewed.”
 
 Atul, a member of the society’s AOA himself, said the society had been facing a threat of   for a long time. “A similar burglary occurred six months ago. We are constantly trying to upgrade the society’s security system, but are unable to do so due to shortage of funds,” Atul said.
 
 
