GAYA: Showing rare promptness, the   recovered the looted Rs25 lakh of   (PNB) and nabbed all the five criminals within two hours of the daylight robbery on Tuesday afternoon. This was the second loot of bank money within 24 hours after the criminals escaped with Rs60 lakh from the gate of PNB branch at Bagha Tila under the   police station area in Patna district on Monday.
 
  Police sources said car-borne criminals overtook the vehicle carrying cash near village Baseri under the Bodh Gaya police station and fired shots before looting the cash which was being transferred from the PNB currency chest at Tekari Road to the Itawa Bazar branch of the bank. A bank employee and a guard were carrying the cash. Car driver Chhote Lal received bullet injury in his thigh. “He is out of danger,” ANMMCH superintendent Dr SK Sinha said.
  
  SSP (Gaya)   said soon after receiving information about the robbery, all possible exit routes were sealed. A police party led by Fatehpur SHO Lal Muni Dubey and assisted by the Cheetah unit of the special task force (STF) intercepted the fleeing robbers near Fatehpur roundabout, about 40km from the site of loot. All the five robbers were arrested and police seized three firearms and a brand new Swift Dzire car without number.
  
  Asked about the likely involvement of bank personnel, the SSP said the case was being investigated from various angles. The police were verifying the information about some mysterious/unauthorized persons’ presence in the Ambassador car carrying the bank money. Asked whether the cash protocol was maintained by the bank, the SSP said the standard operating procedure was violated as the bank officials did not inform the local police about the heavy cash movement.
  
  Zonal IG   said the arrested criminals were identified as Monti Kumar of Brahmpur under Barhara police station (Bhojpur), Amit Kumar and Ankit Kumar of Bhupatipur (Patna), Pikku Kumar of Sujatpur under Ghosi police station (Jehanabad) and Rajesh Kumar of Bhikhna Pahari (Patna). “I have directed the SSP to ensure timely chargesheet and speedy trial in the case,” he said.
  
  DIG (Magadh range) Saurabh Kumar said the arrested criminals hailed from Patna, Bhojpur and Jehanabad districts and provided vital information regarding the Rs60 lakh loot case in Patna district.
