NEW DELHI: The biggest beneficiaries of  's expansion from eight to 12 teams are youngsters who will be auctioned in the category of `new young players' on Tuesday. A total of 131 players aged between 18-22 have been shortlisted in this group.

 They were chosen after trials in which 4,710 players participated over the past few months, across 15 cities including Chennai, Coimbatore, Bangalore, Mangalore, Lucknow, Varanasi, Delhi, Mumbai, Nagpur, Hyderabad, Vizag, Indore, Jaipur, Kolkata and Chandigarh.
 
 The participants were judged on the basis of multiple parameters, namely, fitness, match playing situation, physical evaluation and psychological situations. These parameters were developed in collaboration with  , Technical Director,  ,   (coach, SAI Gandhinagar) along with inputs from a panel of coaches who have played an important role in kabaddi for years.
 
 The players were provided with services of specialist trainers, physios and nutritionists who came on board to prepare them to meet the challenges of the gruelling league in a camp that lasted over a month at the   in Ulwe, Navi Mumbai.
 
 “We are happy with the talent pool that exists in the country, and found it difficult to shortlist the players who were ultimately chosen for the camp before the auctions,“  , one of the coaches training these boys told TOI.
 
 “They love kabaddi but most of them were exposed to the finer aspects of the sport only after going through the two camps (a group of about 350 players trained in Gandhinagar before the list was whittled down to 131) that were conducted. All the boys who eventually make the cut will benefit immensely as they will get to play with the best players from India and abroad,“ added Bhaskaran.
 
  is one of the youngsters who made it to the list of 131, and the 21-year-old from Nilothi village in Haryana's Bahadurgarh district can't wait for the auctions. “I am really excited and am hoping that a team will select me. I have worked really hard ever since I attended the trials in Jaipur,“ said Dahiya.
 
 Dahiya's father is a farmer and his younger brother is in school, and they too are eagerly waiting to see what lies in store for him. “My parents will be really happy if I am able to make it to the league,“ said Dahiya, who idolises India's leading stars   and  .
 
 Another player waiting anxiously for D-Day is Pune's Sunil Siddhgavali. “It will be a dream come true for me if I am selected,“ said Siddhgavali. “I love kabaddi and don't remember missing even a single game over the past four seasons of the Pro Kabaddi League,“ the 21-year-old all-rounder said.
 
 He said he has improved his skills after being selected for the camps. “The training we received from Jaiveer Sir and the other coaches will help us become better players. We learn't many things that we were not even aware of,“ he added.
 
 
