 has a 30% reservation for   for the job of  , but 59% of its recent recruits are women. Settle in for a smooth ride, we say

 Attractive pay package and job security have made the job of loco pilot at Namma Metro quite a hit, even among engineering grads
 
 It may not be a total exaggeration to say that women are the driving force of Namma Metro. Interestingly, in the recent batch of recruits for the post of loco pilots ( ), a majority are women.
 
 A Metro official told Mirror that the state government has reserved 30 per cent of the posts for women. But recently, a batch of 97 joined the team — of this, 57 are women. Both men and women go through various levels of training, which includes experience on simulators, operating trains on certain hours and other training. Only after they are found fit to operate trains are they recruited,” the official said.
 
 The   (BMRCL) has 467 train operators as of now.
 
 Namma Metro also has some telling statistics on the state of education and career options available for the youth. In its recent batch of 97 recruits, taken for the post of loco pilots, or train operators, a majority (more than 80) are graduates and postgraduates in engineering. This despite the fact that the minimum required educational qualification for the post is a diploma.
 
 Sources in the BMRCL believe that the trend is an indication of how few options BE and even MTech degree holders have after studies. Mainly unsatisfactory pay scales and insecurity in jobs are making these youngsters — with ‘coveted’ degrees — apply for jobs at BMRCL, where a newly recruited loco pilot gets paid close to Rs 30,000 a month, according to a Metro official.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 The Metro firm’s recruitment guidelines call for diploma holders in telecommunication, electronics, computer science or other such disciplines to apply for the post of loco pilots.
 
 “The Metro company has been recruiting loco pilots for the last seven years. Over the years, the number of people holding higher degrees [than the minimum required qualification] is increasing for various reasons. It is obvious that our pay scale for new recruits is much higher than in the private sector. People also like to join us because the job is secured,” said an official.
 
 But it’s not just the post of loco pilots, there are engineers working who work at ‘maintainers’. For the maintainer’s post, the minimum required educational qualification is matriculation plus two years of ITI in various streams.
 
 The BMRCL first started commercial operations in October 2011 between Baiyappanahalli and MG Road. Since then, it has been steadily recruiting in batches as its network grows. It has now set a deadline of April, 2017 to run commercial operations on the entire Phase I (42 km). “As per the government policy, train operators must know to write and speak Kannada mandatorily. A majority of the operators are from rural areas. The recruitment process incudes a six-month training period. For Phase I, we have enough train operators,” said the source.
 
 BMRCL being the first Metro company in south India, also trains people for Metro services in Kochi, Chennai and Hyderabad.
 
 It has already trained 243 train operators for Metros in the neighbouring southernstates.
 
