CHENNAI: Worried over the 
  impairing the stability of the state government and damaging their political future, several leaders within the ruling dispensation – including a handful of ministers and MLAs – are talking about a patch-up between O   and Edappadi K Palaniswami.

 Leaders privy to the development said the reunion is attempted without the knowledge of V K Sasikala or her protégé T T V Dhinakaran. Sources pointed to the frequent sulking of some ministers and their reluctance in campaigning for Dhinakaran in R K Nagar. “A group of ministers, cut up with the goings on in the government where nothing happens without Dhinakaran’s nod, skipped the election campaign half way through and held a covert high-tea meeting to discuss the way forward,” said a source. Many of them, individually and collectively, have been expressing their displeasure to chief minister Palaniswami. But fearing reprisal, they are hesitant to launch an open revolt at this juncture.
 
 Once the 
  result is out, either the unrest will gain momentum or end in a whimper, depending on whether Dhinakaran wins or not. As on date, the 
  . “That is bad news for Dhinakaran because his political future hinges on the outcome of this election. If he wins, the state is all set for a four-year rule by the Mannargudi family. Dhinakaran has eclipsed many prominent leaders in his extended family. He could also go after the blood of OPS and many senior rebel leaders by unleashing a few loyal bureaucrats after them. But if he gets defeated, the clamour for his removal from the party deputy general secretary post will gain momentum,” said the source.
 
 Analysing the possibility of a reunion, a senior leader in the OPS camp said, “We are regularly in touch with ministers and MLAs in the TTV camp. It is a clear indication that the divide in the party is not that deep-rooted. The 
  . The only difference between them and us is that we have come out in the open, whereas they have not. We have nothing against Edappadi or anybody else in that group. As much as they are worried over the loss of ‘two leaves’ symbol, we too are concerned about it. For any   leader to be relevant in the political scape, the party name and symbol are crucial. We hope to work towards retrieving both after the R K Nagar results are out. Unless that is done, we will end up presenting the government on a platter to the DMK”.
 
 Moreover, the AIADMK MLAs are concerned over the growing public dislike for Sasikala and her family members. “Look at Dhinakaran’s campaign. Fearing public retribution, he does not invoke Sasikala’s name anywhere in the campaign. It is self-betrayal. If his game plan is to win over neutral voters, it may not happen. He fails to understand that he may also lose some hard-core loyalists,” said political analyst Raveenthiran Doraisamy.
 
 
 
 
