CHAKDAHA: From an atmosphere of celebration to the ambience of melancholy — Lalpur, best known as the hometown of  , had a sudden change in vibe just 24 hours after the India Eves’ loss in the   final on Sunday night.

 A huge cutout of India’s leading woman spearhead stands on the side of the station road and still dons a stale garland. Posters of Goswami are still visible on almost every house of the village but many of them are peeling off following the Sunday night rain. A large banner saying “Bring the cup home” stands outside Goswami’s one-storey house, but there is nobody taking selfies with it any longer.
 
 It was just another Monday at Lalpur and the air of excitement and thrill that was building in the small village, 68km from Kolkata, was gone. Goswami’s sister Jhumpa, who looked rather sullen, said her sister had not called them since the defeat. “Didi did not call us since last night. I understand what she must have been going through. I have come to know she will probably come back to India with the rest of the team on Wednesday and from there to Kolkata. I will go at the airport to receive her,” said Jhumpa, adding that her parents, especially her father, was distraught at the loss.
 
 “My father is extremely proud of her achievements but at the same time he loves her a lot and understands she is going through, unable to take her team past the final hurdle. Since the loss, he has not spoken a word,” she said.
 
 Goswami’s mother had broken down in front of neighbours and relatives on Sunday night, moments after India lost the match by nine runs. Even on Monday, she had the same expression on her face as she said: “I am proud of my daughter but of course I would have felt better had India won the final.” The   neighbourhood, however has plans to celebrate Goswami’s homecoming and said the pall of gloom that has descended on the village will wither away once Goswami comes back. Friends’ Club, the club at Lalpur where Jhulan had started playing cricket, has planned to go to the airport on the day of Jhulan’s return to bring her to Lalpur with a rally. “We then will felicitate her on the stage,” former secretary of the club,  , said on Monday.
 
 He added that although people are sad because of the loss, once Goswami returns, there will be a gala celebration. “We will felicitate her as she has the highest number of wickets in women’s cricket and for her great performance in the finals,” Dutta stated. The club also plans to model the theme of this year’s Durga Puja on Goswami’s life through models and paintings, from her childhood till the WC 2017 final.
 
 Goswami is currently the highest wicket-taker in women’s ODIs with 195 scalps and joint-third highest in women’s World Cup cricket history with 36 wickets. At 34, this is most likely her last World Cup and she did her best to take India to the final. Her 3 for 23 almost did the trick for her team, but the target proved to be a bridge too far for the batting line-up.
 
