GURUGRAM: Relatives of three workers who suffocated to death in a septic tank of an auto spare parts firm near Hero Honda Chowk on Saturday agreed to a settlement with company officials on Sunday morning after refusing to claim the bodies and protesting for hours. Each family has been promised Rs 22 lakh as compensation.

 In turn, the victims’ family members agreed to withdraw their police complaint, but the labour department and cops said the probe would continue. Manual scavenging is banned by law. 
 
 Jai Auto Component Ltd also agreed to provide a job to one member from each family during a closed door meeting with the family members and workers’ union representatives at the additional labour commissioner’s office. 
 
 Of the Rs 22 lakh compensation to each, Jai Auto will pay Rs 17 lakh and labour welfare board Rs 5 lakh. 
 
 Rajkumar, Rinku and Nanhe, all three contract labourers at Jai Auto, died of suffocation while trying to save one of their colleagues, Vineesh, from drowning in a septic tank inside the company premises at   on Saturday. Rinku, Nanhe and Vineesh are from the same family. Vineesh, who fainted after inhaling poisonous gases while cleaning the tank, was admitted to a private hospital and is now stable. 
 
 At least 1,000 people, including relatives of the deceased, members of several workers’ unions, along with fellow workers and locals, gathered in front of the mortuary on Sunday and refused to claim the bodies. They demanded that the company and the government compensate them. Workers and family members who came from different parts of UP were camping in Khandsa since Saturday evening.
 
 Announcing the “settlement” to the protesters,  , state president of Nagarpalika Karamchari Sangh, Haryana, said family members of the deceased would get jobs and Rs 17 lakh from the company, and in turn, withdraw the FIR. Omprakash, Rajkumar’s uncle, had lodged the FIR against Jai Auto Component Ltd.
 
 However, Amit Kumar, SHO of Sector 37 police station, said that the investigation into the deaths was still on. “The postmortem is being conducted and the probe will proceed step by step,” he said.
 
 Rakesh Kumar, Rajkumar’s brother, said that their demands included arresting people responsible for the deaths, compensating the families with Rs 25 lakh and providing jobs. The protesters also took out a march from the mortuary to the additional labour commissioner’s office in Civil Lines.
 
 Deepak from the Valmiki community, who is a sewage cleaner at Jai Auto and is related to Nanhe, Rinku and Vineesh, said he did not go to work on Saturday. He said at 7am, Nanhe called him up and said he would go to work, despite Saturday being a holiday, so he could earn an extra Rs 300-400. At 10 am, Deepak got a call and heard that Vineesh had fainted inside the effluent treatment plant, which contained paint sludge. 
 
 According to Deepak, an engineer at the site asked Nanhe to go inside and look for Vineesh. Subsequently, Rinku and Rajkumar went into the tank. Kuldeep Baghel said his friend Rajkumar and the others were stuck in thick sludge and suffocated to death. Baghel said the death of his friend could not be reversed but he hoped no worker suffered the same death ever.
 
 Additional labour commissioner Ashok Garg said an investigation was being carried out by the labour department into lapses that led to the deaths. The investigation will look into whether safety norms were being followed or not. The report is expected by Monday, following which it will be sent to the labour commissioner who will decide the provisions under which the violations took place. 
 
 Garg said the inquiry report would then be submitted to court and criminal proceedings initiated. He said the families of the deceased would also receive pension from Employees’ State Insurance Corporation.
 
