HYDERABAD: With no salaries for the last six months,   across transport offices are now spending most of their time making rounds of the offices of senior staffers -both at the   and police commissionerate. There are nearly 150 home guards working with transport offices across the city who draw a monthly salary of Rs 2,000.

 In the state, there are at least 1000-1100 odd home guards who are faced with the crisis.The salaries of these employees 'on deputation' in various departments need   from the finance department.
 
 “We have been representing to the higher authorities since the last four months but no one is able to tell us when our salaries will be credited.The transport commissioner and police commissioner all are saying that `the file is in waiting at the secretariat'.Once the file is passed only then the budget will be released,“ said a home guard working at  .
 
 Previously too there have been instances of delay in dispensing of salaries but this is the first time that the delay has been beyond six months.“Making ends meet and doing rounds of senior authorities is taking a toll on our work and health. Although it doesn't affect the ones on office duty , guards on enforcement duty are running a backlog,“ admitted another who was seen waiting outside the transport commissioner's office.He has been forced to turn to money lenders to run his ho me, he confessed.
 
 With home guards -who form an important part of inspection teams -running from pillar to post for their salaries, vehicle checks on the road, special drives and checks for installation of high security number plates have dropped by an estimated 20 to 30 per cent. There have been no special drives in the last 30 days. While admitting to the impact on the routine work at offices, J Pandurang Naik, joint transport commissioner, Hyderabad said: “The budget authorisation for these home guards has to come from the finance department. Since they are on deputation, the budget has to be renewed every two years. The salaries have stopped since September, we are hopeful the issue will be solved soon.“
 
