KOLKATA:   ( ), the agency constructing the 16.72km Joka-BBD stretch on   Railway’s behalf, finally commen-ced piling work at Majer-hat on Wednesday. 

 Demolition of a building in Majerhat from which NGO Rehabilitation India operated was completed a week ago, clearing a major hurdle in the project that has been plagued by trouble from the start. 
 
 “We have finally succeeded in starting work at Majerhat. This was possible through the joint effort of RVNL, Kolkata Port Trust and the Kolkata Police,” said  , executive director, Metro, RVNL. 
 
 The Rs 2,913.50-crore project was approved in 2010 when Mamata Banerjee was railway minister. Despite Trinamool coming to power in 2011, there has been little progress and only Rs 383.05 crore could be spent till March, 2016. The main hurdle has been land acquisition. Not only private, even state-owned plots became hard to come by. 
 
 For years, permission from the ministries of finance and defence were held up for use of land at the Alipore Mint and Command Hosp-ital premises.
 
 “Things are finally falling in place. The ministries of finance and defence have now granted permission for use of land. Work at the mint has already started. With the Majerhat land becoming availa-ble, work can now progress unhindered along the elevated stretch till Momin-pore. Beyond this point, the network will be underground. There are still some issues regarding drilling for a station on the Maidan, but this will hopefully get sorted,” said Indrani Banerjee, CPRO, Metro Railway. 
 
 There has also been some progress in the acquisition process for the plot to build the carshed at Joka. Recently, Metro amd RVNL officials met state officials, including the chief secretary, and Kolkata mayor   took responsibility to sort out the issues. 
 
 Metro and RVNL officials also met the owner of the 24-hectare plot on which the carshed is to come up. 
 
 “There has been an understanding between all parties and RVNL will start work for the carshed. The actual acquisition process will continue even as work progresses,” Banerjee added.
 
 The Joka-BBD stretch is one of the most important of all ongoing Metro projects in Kolkata. 
 
 
