CHENNAI: A 90-year-old decorated   will receive 50,000 as one-time financial assistance from the Army on a recommendation from the Chennai bench of   (AFT).

 The tribunal asked the authorities to consider giving him the amount as he did not meet the criteria for pension and other  . "He served the Army with distinction during WWII and deserves to be treated with honour at the fag end of his life," AFT said.
 
 Ex-gunner Govinda Raju had joined Army in October 1942 (during Linlithgow's viceroyship) when he was 18. He was inducted in the   where he served for five years, earning several medals and decorations. Despite being fit, Raju was discharged from service by an order in June 1947 seeking a reduction in Army personnel. Despite several representations, he was not provided pension benefits following which Raju moved the tribunal.
 
 In its reply, the Army said according to rules, Raju's service documents were destroyed 25 years from his discharge. Pension regulations say a minimum qualifying service period to receiving pension was 15 years. As he had rendered around four years and seven months of service, Raju was not eligible. Raju's counsel said after his stint in the Army, he was employed in the railways and now received pension. But Raju was discharged from service because of the decision to reduce personnel, so he was entitled to special pension.
 
 A bench of judicial member Justice S S Satheesachandran and administrative member Lt Gen K Surendra Nath said according to Army's pension regulations, 1940 for viceroy's commissioned officers and other ranks, five years of service was required for special or service pension. Though Raju was not entitled for pension, he could receive special gratuity. But with records destroyed, the Army could not specify that Raju be provided the benefit.
 
 Also, Raju could not be provided war veterans life time assistance of 6,000 by the state government as he was already receiving pension from the railways. So he could be given the financial assistance from the government/Army headquarters' welfare funds. "This will go a long way in ameliorating the financial situation of the war veteran," the bench said.
 
