MADURAI: The Madras High Court’s directive has seen the respective district administrations take up the drive to uproot the invasive seemai karuvelam (prosopis julifora) trees in the region. On the flip side, the trees have been bread and butter for many in the arid districts of southern Tamil Nadu. 

 Known as invasive weed across the world and notorious for exhausting water sources for its survival, seemai karuvelam was introduced in the state by the government for firewood requirements in the 1960s. Initially, these trees were considered as fit for nothing by people but its ability to thrive in arid conditions helped them quickly spread in southern districts. 
 
 Taking advantage of its abundance, the local people in Sivaganga and Ramanathapuram districts found a method to turn them into charcoal, called ‘Karimootam’ (charcoal heap) in the locality. With high carbon content in the wood, the charcoal derived from prosopis julifora is high in demand in the industrial sector. The entire karimootam business is roughly estimated to be around Rs1,000 crore, according to people involved in it. 
 
 The karimootam business also employs hundreds of people in these dry districts where agriculture activities are scarce.   from Kakkudi in Kamuthi taluk of Ramanathapuram district said that karimootam provides employment to local villagers round the year. “The heaps come in various sizes and requires at least one month’s time to make charcoal. So we make multiple karimootams and there will be work for people round the year,” he explained. Men are paid Rs400 each and women are paid Rs250 each as daily wages. 
 
 In addition to workers and charcoal makers, there are also traders of charcoal which is in high demand especially in North India. “At times, an entire train load of charcoal is loaded from Manamadurai and there is a handsome demand for charcoal from the region especially industrial units using boilers,” said  , who used to be in the charcoal business. 
 
 Not just industrial boilers, but karuvelam charcoal is widely used in establishments like restaurants in tandoori ovens and even in crematoriums. “These trees are perfect to make charcoal and it burns longer. Charcoal derived from other trees don’t last longer and quickly become ash,” Karuppasamy said. Charcoal makers are worried if they will find a suitable tree specie replacement to continue their business. 
 
 In addition to charcoal, prosopis julifora charcoal powder also finds some use in agarbatti manufacture and firewood business in the region. Two thirds of the entire firewood transacted in the region is karuvelam trees. 
 
 In spite of the huge business, the karimootam makers and firewood traders have no complains over the eradication drive of this invasive weed. “It has been established that seemai karuvelam trees are harmful to environment and ground water. When water is turning scarce, the high court has only done good thing ordering its eradication. What matters is, life can’t go on without water,” says R Dharmalingam, a   in Madurai. 
 
