PANAJI: The frequency of   among the elderly in Goa has   professionals worried. While there are no statistics, clinical psychologists have found that several men and women in the age group of 60 and beyond are susceptible to depression.

 Psychologists say that depression is often under-diagnosed and under-treated as a mental illnesses, which only aggravates the problem.
 
 “It is difficult to estimate the occurrence of depression in old people. Sub-syndromal depression, which is symptomatic and leads to depression, is actually quite high. Of the people approaching us for primary health care, almost 40% had some amount of symptoms,” assistant professor, department of preventive and social medicine, Goa Medical College, Amit Dias, says. 
 
 Isolation and loneliness, along with uncertain income sources, could be some of the triggering factors, say psychologists. “Loneliness, being financially dependent on their children and chronic illness are some factors that make the elderly vulnerable to depression,” says clinical psychologist Miriam Sequeira.
 
 Geriatric depression is a mental and emotional disorder that affects senior citizens who display feelings of sadness, poor motivation and insomnia. Kin often consider these symptoms as normal and fail to seek support for the elders. “Depression kills people. It is a big problem, so people should come forward to talk about it,” says Dias, who serves as the chairperson at Sangath.
 
 “I do see an increase in depression among senior citizens and some movement has to be there to take care of this,” clinical psychologist at  , Amita Quenim, says.
 
 To try and counter the prevalence of depression, Sangath is working on a research project, ‘Prevention of Depression in Late Life’, to help prevent depression among the elderly.
 
 Psychologists and researchers associated with the project have cited instances where village homes are occupied largely by senior citizens, with children either settled abroad or working in metropolitan cities.
 
