 achieved literary fame with a psychological thriller whose narrator is an alcoholic, suffering blackouts. The Girl on the Train sold over 18 million copies and became a $173 million-grossing DreamWorks film. Hawkins dives into the murk again with Into the Water. DreamWorks has optioned this one too. In a telephone interview from London, she tells Joeanna Rebello Fernandes how memory can be a close accomplice to crime

 Your last two novels hinge on how grief or trauma scrambles our reading of events and people. It tilts even more the already slanted subjectivity of truth. What drew you to this? 
 
 I am fascinated about the way in which we tell stories about ourselves and reinterpret our past; the way we construct a narrative around ourselves in order to make sense of our lives or in order to cope with adversity. I’ve had incidents where — these are not necessarily coping mechanisms — I’ve been speaking to someone in my family about something that happened in my childhood and they’ll say, no, it didn’t happen like that, you remembered that wrong. I think everyone will recognise that. What I wanted to say in the (new) book is, what if that remembered incident was something fundamental to you and it shaped the person you became and what if you remembered it totally differently to the way your sister did? So I’m fascinated with the way we rely so much on memory, yet it is such an absolutely unreliable thing. 
 
 You were broke when you started The Girl on the Train. Did financial desperation colour the first novel in a way that was absent in the second, after you’d achieved celebrity status? 
 
 I was at a very difficult time in my life when I was writing The Girl on the Train. I was under financial difficulties, feeling down about the way my career was going because the book before had done badly. I think a lot of my misery at the time went into the character of Rachel. I certainly haven’t had those kinds of pressures this time with Into the Water. But because Girl... was successful, a lot of people are waiting to see what I do next. That creates its own pressure and anxiety. 
 
 Seeing how we’re consuming crime from all quarters today (news, TV, podcasts, films), is it harder for a mystery writer to conjure the unexpected — to deliver the surprise ending? 
 
 I think it is. There’s so much true crime we’re watching and reading about that it is difficult to deliver the shocking twists. Also, people who read lots of crime books get used to spotting things, but I think for me actually, concealing the murderer isn’t necessarily the most important thing. What I’m interested in is how we get there — in the psychology. If you guessed who did it, that doesn’t bother me too much. I want it to be intriguing and satisfying and feel like it’s realistic. 
 
 You’ve said works by women writers of crime can be more psychologically nuanced and emotionally involved. Do you feel this invites a gendered reading as well? 
 
 I wouldn’t like to write off all male crime writers as not nuanced or emotionally involved, I think there is a way in which women are taught, from quite young, to see themselves as potential victims of crime. And there are certain things they must do or not do in order to avoid becoming victims of crime: don’t wear short skirts, don’t drink too much, don’t go in a taxi by yourself, don’t walk alone home at night. I don’t think men are talked to like that. I don’t think we tell young men, don’t go to the pub in case you get beaten up on the way home. So I think there’s a certain way women are used to seeing themselves in the role of the victim. Women have a different relationship to crime, and are conditioned to think about it in a different way — we’re the ones who walk home with our keys in our hands, checking over our shoulders. And this changes the way we approach writing about crime. And women, we know, tend to buy more fiction and crime fiction.
 
 Why do you think the genre of true crime and crime fiction is doing so well these days?
 
 We’ve always been attracted to crime stories. Perhaps this is a moment when a lot of people are feeling anxious and unstable, or are looking to explore their anxieties in a safe space. For some people it’s pure escapism. 
 
 Emily Blunt (who played Rachel in The Girl on the Train) said she got a lot out of documentaries when preparing for her role as an alcoholic. How did you research the character? 
 
 There are aspects of Rachel that come from me, not necessarily the drinking, but her sense of loneliness and disconnection — I’ve had that feeling at times in my life. People drink a lot in this country (UK) and there are a lot of people with drinking problems. All of us would know somebody, or have someone in the family, or would have had a relationship with somebody who’s had an addiction. And you start to realise alcoholics are not only the old man in the street with a bottle of Scotch, but functioning people who have good jobs, families, who manage somehow to keep going. And that was the kind of alcoholic I was writing about — that woman who starts out with a couple of glasses of wine, then it’s a bottle and then it’s two bottles…. 
 
 *Photo: Alisa Connan
 
 
