RANCHI: When Patrick Cummins made a glorious Test debut against South Africa at the Wanderers in Johannesburg in 2011, he was only 18. He is 23 now, and if he hasn't played another Test since knocking the Proteas cold with a six-wicket haul in the second innings, there are serious reasons for it. One has to feel for this lad, who has gone through hell physically in the past five years. The tall, well-built speed merchant endured stress fractures in his back, feet and ribs before breaking down once again in 2015 with a lower lumbar fracture that shut him out of the game for nearly two years and also forced him to remodel his bowling action.

 Cummins' `second coming' in Test cricket is slated for Thursday when he is expected to share the new ball with his New South Wales mate Josh Hazlewood as Australia and India resume their cricketing rivalry in the third Test following a well-deserved Holi break.
 
 Cummins, who replaced Mitchell Starc after the latter pulled out of the tour with a stress fracture in his right foot, was quick to hit the nets at the JSCA International Cricket Stadium complex on Tuesday. He bowled long and at top speed, beating the bat of his teammates time and again as captain Steve Smith nodded in appreciation.
 
 For someone, who was busy playing Sheffield Shield cricket last month, Cummins admitted the call-up to the Australian squad had come as a surprise. “I knew I was among the standbys for the Indian tour, but didn't expect to be called up,“ Cummins said prior to his session in the nets here.
 
 “I'd always set myself little steps of getting back into the One-day side, and from that hopefully getting back in the Test side. I always had an eye on the Ashes next (summer), thinking that I had to play three or four (Sheffield) Shield games to put my hand up for selection. But this has certainly come a lot quicker,“ added Cummins, admitting that he had missed Test cricket terribly .
 
 “Being at home for the first two Tests, I really appreciated how much passion is in this tour and how much Test cricket means. I've just been pumped watching it at home.“
 
 Having played red-ball cricket in the Sheffield Shield prior to coming here -Cummins, who picked up four wickets in both innings -is simply eager to get out there and let it rip. “This is easily the most prepared that I've been for a Test match -in terms of body, form, the length that I've been playing the last few months. I've bowled a lot of overs, a lot of times I've had to back up day after day, and the body has been recovering really well.“
 
 Asked whether he is prepared to go flat out in a bid to blast the Indian batsmen out, Cummins said, “I'll have to speak with Smithy and a couple of the coaches. But it looks like we (pacers) will bowl shorter spells and go absolutely flat out. “While there might not be seam and swing, hopefully (there will be) some reverse swing. Hitting the deck hard has worked so far, so hopefully it's going to be a similar plan,“ he concluded.
 
 Apart from Cummins, the Aussies are also set to bring in allrounder Mark Stoinis in place of the injured Mitchell Marsh. Off-spinner Nathan Lyon is also fit after experiencing soreness in his spinning finger in the aftermath of the Bengaluru Test.
 
 CUMMINS AND GOINGS
 
 Australia pacer   has had a now-on, now-off international career marred by injuries...
 
 Last played for Australia in September 2015 in a One-day match against England, after which he was diagnosed with a lower lumbar bone stress fracture
 
 The quick still boasts just the one Test to his name, and only eight first-class matches, as he continues to be carefully managed by CA amid repeated injuries
 
 Early cricketing career has been plagued with injury, primarily a stress fracture of the back
 
 In mid-2013, he has two first-class games for Australia A on a tour of Africa, before once again being sidelined by a back injury
 
 In mid-2015, he suffered another back injury after being sent to England to replace the retired Ryan Harris in Australia's Ashes squad
 
 
