PUNE: The Mundhwa police has initiated the process to secure custody of a city-based builder for allegedly cheating more than 30 buyers in a housing project at Keshavnagar. Builder Vinay Phadnis is currently in the custody of the   in connection with an  .

 Phadnis, his wife, Anuradha, and other associates are facing charges of leaving home buyers in the lurch by abandoning a project despite collecting the entire payment. Phadnis Properties had floated a housing scheme by the name   at Keshavnagar. 
 
 Kharadi resident Rahul Dudhe is among the affected home buyers and has lodged a complaint with the Mundhwa police on April 29 under the Maharashtra Ownership Flat Act, 1963, and other penal sections. 
 
 Senior inspector of the Mundhwa police station Jan Mohammad Pathan said, “We have obtained the production warrant from the   on Tuesday and will seek Phadnis’ custody. The warrant will be deposited in Nashik court on Wednesday.”
 
 The complaint was registered after an inordinate delay since negotiations between Dudhe and the builder failed, the officer added. “Phadnis had failed to complete the project due to financial constraints,” Pathan said. 
 
 According to a police statement, Dudhe had booked 2BHK terrace flat totally worth over Rs46.59 lakh on 7th floor after depositing a cheque of Rs1 lakh on August 27, 2012. “The builder had assured possession of the flat by November 30, 2014. Dudhe had later deposited Rs4.5 lakh with Phadnis and entered into an agreement for sale on September 28, 2012. The agreement was signed by   at the sub registrars office,” the note states. 
 
 Further the official statement mentions that Dudhe had obtained a housing loan of Rs40 lakhs from an insurance firm in October 2012 and deposited cheques of varying amounts, totally worth Rs33,72066 with the builder. “On visiting the construction site, the investor found that the work was not progressing as per the agreement and the flat was not delivered to him by November 30 2014.”
 
 “Dudhe had met Phadnis and other suspects on numerous occasions at their office. He appealed them to hand over the flat’s possession at the earliest. This is because he was paying a huge interest on the loan in vain. He later found out that the builder had also duped 30 other buyers,” the statement read.
 
