AMRITSAR: Incidents of hate crime against Sikhs in the US have not deterred the community but have instead firmed their resolve to fight back and educate fellow Americans about their religion and identity, a Sikh body has said. “It’s natural to be frightened about our families and our future, but Sikhs have a history of overcoming persecution and we will survive this,” said  , director,   on Friday.

 He said it was not the time to sit and sulk but to unite and mobilize. “We have urged Sikhs to get involved in their local communities, and as an organization, we will continue to build alliances to hold the President and others accountable,” he said.
 
 Manvinder said that with the shooting of another Sikh on March 3, at Kent in Washington state, they observed that the events post-9/11 terror attack were getting repeated. He said it was felt in the vengeance attacks and killings of Sikhs resulting from that event. “The Sikh community has become the most visible targets of the ignorance and Muslim retaliation and violence stemming from 9/11,” he said.
 
 Guljit Kaur Bains, an attorney in Queens, New York, said until recently a Sikh was unknown to most Americans but the community was now in the national spotlight because they were repeatedly the victims of 9/11 retaliation and violence.
 
 “There have been many Sikh deaths or injuries directly linked to retaliation for 9/11; many since President   took office. There are still more killings that are mysteries that can only be explained in terms of the community’s experience with this kind of hate violence. The execution style killing of a 17-year-old Sikh boy in his family’s garage in northern California in November 2016, was such a mystery and it can lead to panic,” she said.
 
 Manvinder said United Sikhs staff continued to reach out and educate the American public and leaders about Sikhism in the hopes that putting a face on victims will get the needed response. “We have sent letters to the US department of justice, civil rights and criminal divisions in the hopes that they will lend the necessary resources to the investigation of these heinous crimes,” he said.
 
