NAGPUR: The stage is set for the   (HCBA) polls on Friday, with the   leaving no stone unturned to ensure smooth conduct of the entire process.

 For first time, the polls would be held under strict surveillance of CCTV cameras, with railings erected so voters stand in a queue, said election panel chairman Bhanudas Kulkarni. The results would be announced on the same day at 7.30pm by the Election Committee, which also comprises Prakash Meghe, Padma Chandurkar, Nikhil Padhye and Malhar Vishwaroope.
 
 Around 1,502 voters would caste their franchise to elect people to 16 posts in HCBA’s executive committee. This includes one post each of president, secretary, joint secretary, library in-charge, and treasurer, along with two vice presidents and nine members. Importantly, the voters need to bring at least one photo identity card to participate in the process. The acceptable ID cards include those issued by   (BCI) or HCBA or Aadhaar or voting card.
 
 “We’ve set up a dedicated team of youngsters and others who wouldn’t be voting tomorrow. They would be involved in the counting process while our panel members would monitor the entire process. A candidate can request recount if he is not satisfied by the outcome,” Kulkarni told TOI.
 
 Till Thursday, all candidates were involved in hectic lobbying by meeting voters and requesting them to vote in their favour. However, all eyes are on the top post of president, where   and Shreerang Bhandarkar are battling it out. Both were seen campaigning hard on the last day. Members predicted a tough fight between them, as both are popular figures in the legal fraternity
 
 For two posts of vice-presidents, there is a four-way fight between Nitin Vyawhare, Dilip Daga, Gauri Venkatraman, and  , who is seeking a second term. For secretary’s post, Prafulla Khubalkar, Rashi Deshpande and Deven Patrikar, would be fighting for honours.
 
 The new committee would have tenure of three years, unless it delays elections like the present body, which inordinately delayed polls by over five months, since last elections were held on May 3, 2013.
 
