NEW DELHI: Even as   president   tries to anchor an anti-BJP alliance for the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, her party faces a practical test in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state, Gujarat, where assembly elections are scheduled for December.
 
  The  ,   and Hardik Patel’s outfit, which have floated a parallel front, have challenged the Congress leadership’s ability to negotiate with parties to reach an agreement for a broader front against the NDA.
  
  Many in the non-BJP camp feel that if parties engaged in efforts to unite parties against the BJP for the presidential poll — Congress, NCP and JDU — contest against each other in Gujarat, it would raise questions on the credibility of the unity exercise.
  
  Concerns about Gujarat figured informally in recent talks on the presidential poll that Gandhi held with some Opposition leaders but the NCP-JDU camp has put the onus on the Congress leadership to take the initiative to prevent the division of anti-BJP votes in Gujarat.
  
  While Congress leaders privately lament about the NCP-JDU-Patel front, the latter has portrayed the Congress unit of Gujarat that has failed to defeat BJP in the state for nearly quarter of a century as a ‘monumental example of a toothless tiger’.
  
  “Gujarat Congress has not only miserably failed to defeat BJP for almost 25 years, but is also facing a huge leadership crisis. We are entering the turf to ensure that the remaining Opposition space is not ceded to BJP,” said one of the leaders of the parallel front. If the Congress is serious about fighting BJP in Gujarat, it should reach out not only to NCP-JDU but also to outfits led by  , Dalit leader Jignesh and leader of extreme Backward communities Kalpesh Thakur,” said a leader of the parallel front.
  
  The JDU-NCP camp also pointed out how the BJP, despite being in a politically commanding position, struck strategic alliances with smaller parties in Uttar Pradesh to maximise electoral and social reach, in the last Lok Sabha and assembly polls.
  
  “On the one side, the BJP demonstrates its will for winning by scripting tactical alliances with regional parties from J&K to Kerala, and on the other, the Gujarat Congress, that meekly surrendered and facilitated the rise and rise of Modi, is not even looking into the mirror to realise it has no credible leader or winning social base anymore,” said the leader. 
