BATHINDA: Porous border with Haryana has allowed bootleggers to push   in Bathinda. Though the excise and taxation department authorities of Punjab and Bathinda police claim to have made efforts to contain  , the amount of liquor being brought from   of Haryana into Bathinda is huge.

 Five more cases of liquor smuggling were registered here on Friday. In the past one month 70 cases of liquor smuggling have been registered in the district. Taking into account the illicit trade,   and the district police have started identifying habitual offenders and bootleggers. Bathinda DC and SSP have asked the field staff and excise officials to be extra vigilant in this regard. 
 
 Porous areas in Bathinda adjoining Haryana are Talwandi Sabo, Rama and Sangat while smuggling takes place from Doomwali, Narang, Panniwala and some other villages located on the link roads in Haryana. Police officials said 18 cases were registered in various police stations in the last one week, which included five FIRs registered on Friday. In these 18 cases, 21 persons were arrested and 1,495 bottles recovered from them. Excise officials said a case of 12 bottles of country-made liquor was available in the range of Rs 800 to Rs 1,000 in Haryana and it was sold between Rs 1,400 and Rs 1,700 in Bathinda. “A country-made liquor bottle in Haryana is available at Rs 80-120 and the minimum rate in Bathinda for such bottles is Rs 180 each,” said an excise official.
 
 Harish Kumar, a liquor contractor from Bathinda, said they had suffered losses due to smuggling from Haryana and it was still continuing even after the change of government. “We have asked the excise department and police to control it or we will not be able to pay the licence fee as we are incurring losses of nearly Rs 5 lakh each day on this account,” he said.
 
 Bathinda excise and taxation officer (ETO) Vikram Dev said the department had increased vigilance and put up nakas at vulnerable points. “We are also taking up the issue with the Haryana authorities to direct liquor vend owners there not to give liquor in large quantity to anyone from Punjab. We have apprised senior officials about probable loss of revenue to state and contractors,” he said.
 
 Bathinda DC Diprava Lakra said that, “We held a meeting today where everyone gave everyone an assurance to check liquor smuggling,” he said.
 
