NAGPUR: The forest department has shot down big tourism plans of Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation ( ) in Navargaon inside the 138sqkm Bor   (BTR) saying it could not hand over land taken from villagers for conservation for tourism.

 The move followed a high-level meeting in Mumbai on February 15 called by chief minister’s office (CMO) to discuss tourism plans in Nagpur and Wardha districts. It was attended by people’s representatives, senior forest officials, district collectors, senior tribal and irrigation department officials.
 
 According to sources, on July 24, 2015, it was decided in a meeting that MTDC will build a mobile planetarium, bird watching facilities, caravans, tents for tourists in part of the tribal ashramshala in Navargaon. Navargaon is a village near   and 311 families living there have been moved out at an expense of Rs80 crore to Khadki on Wardha Road. This was under voluntary relocation plan with villagers choosing Option 1 (Rs10 lakh package). Now Bor reserve has an additional 219 hectare area.
 
 The ashramshala too has been shifted to Sindhivihiri. Navargaon ashramashala with 36 rooms is situated on 60 acres. MTDC wanted to develop tourism on this patch.
 
 “Navargaon has become core area now. We cannot hand over land as   (NTCA) guidelines formulated after   directives clearly state no new tourist infrastructure is to come up within the core/critical tiger habitat of tiger reserves, in compliance with the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972,” said forest officials pleading anonymity.
 
 “On September 27, 1975, the ashramshala, situated in compartment number 246, was given forest land after deforestation. Originally it was forest and it would go back to being one,” they added.
 
 The officials said how the land would be used will be decided by the forest department. “The ashramshala can be used for residential quarters or foresters’ training purposes in future,” they said.
 
 Wardha district collector Shailesh Naval chose not to comment as minutes of meeting were not ready. “If not MTDC, forest department can develop facilities,” he said. Naval stated that boating facilities at Bor dam and Borkhedi would soon be started. Paddle and rowing boats will be procured. Besides, bird watching facilities at Madan dam near Arvi, trekking facilities in Dhaga and fish aquarium and watch towers near Nan Bardi lake will come up.
 
 “Initially, over Rs60 lakh will be spent on these projects to be taken up on PPP basis by district planning committee (DPC). They will be operated by eco-development committees (EDCs) and joint forest management committees (JFMCs),” said Naval.
 
 Similarly, in Nagpur district, boating will be started at Mohgaon-Zilpi lake on way to Bor and a snake park will come up at Kanholibara.
 
 “Presently, around 18,000 tourists visit Bor annually. These facilities will be an added attraction for them,” says Swanand Soni of Srushti Paryavaran Mandal.
 
 
