JAIPUR: National People’s Party (NPP) MLA   on Thursday defied Speaker Kailash Meghwal’s directives and deliberately did not read out his question related to mining in Dausa during the Question Hour.

 Meena’s query was part of the listed questions, which the state ministers were expected to reply during the Question Hour. However, the NPP MLA’s turn arrived and Meghwal called out his name, Meena, instead of reading aloud the question number, accused the Speaker. Meghwal went on to call the MLA, whose question was listed next. The accusation the MLA had made was later expunged from the proceedings.
 
 Meena was upset about his turn arriving just minutes before the end of the Question Hour. He had earlier interrupted a discussion on government properties constructed on the forest land, saying that the discussion, which was going on long, would eat into the time. 
 
 “There is an important question of mine coming up,’’ he had said raising an objection. As the discussion continued and was followed by another one, a visibly upset Meena, refused to read out his question minutes before the Speaker would announce the end of Question Hour. Meena’s question remained unlisted. Earlier, during the ongoing Budget session, the MLA had accused the Speaker of shielding a `corrupt government.’
 
 Meanwhile, replying to the question about regularisation of government structures in forest areas, forest minister   Khimsar said that residential colonies on forest land were defined as encroachments. “Government of India introduced Forest (Conservation) Act 1980 in 1980, under which it is provided that no state government or forest officer can order for non-forestry use of forest land only after prior approval of the ministry,’’ said Khimsar, in reply to queries raised by   MLA Rajendra Singh Bhadu. He said that only in case of a residential scheme announced by the government before 1980 or an FIR is registered, can one apply for non-forestry use of land.
 
 Khimsar also informed the house that in case of a school, dispensary, minor irrigation canal or any government structure built on area lesser than one hectare, the related department can apply for use of land under penalty clause. “The state can give permission for these structures. For structures built on over one hectare, only the ministry can decide,’’ he said.
 
