GURUGRAM: Bandhwari villagers are likely to meet Gurgaon deputy commissioner   on Monday, demanding relocation of the waste treatment plant that has been causing serious soil, air and groundwater pollution in the area.

 They are getting support from the neighbourhood too.  , a resident of Valley View, a society on Gurgaon-Faridabad road, said their major concern was groundwater contamination. “We will be the first ones to be affected by the groundwater pollution. So, we have decided to meet the deputy commissioner and put forward our concerns.”
 
 The villagers, who have been protesting against the MCG’s plan to hand over the now-defunct plant to a Chinese firm for setting up a waste-to-energy unit there, have also written to the chief minister’s office, seeking his intervention. “Hundreds of tonnes of garbage is being ferried to Bandhwari landfill daily. Apart from spreading germs, the garbage has been contaminating the groundwater. We request you to reallocate the plant from the area immediately,” reads the letter written to the CMO on Saturday.
 
 The villagers said they would up the ante on the issue and approach the Prime Minister’s Office for action if the district administration and the state government fail to address their concerns. Moreover, the villagers raised serious concerns over the MCG’s proposal to hand over the plant to a Chinese firm. “The proposed waste-to-energy unit will cause more pollution in the area. We just want this plant to be reallocated,” said Manoj, another villager.
 
 But MCG officials refuted the allegations. “We are regularly testing groundwater of Bandhwari and nearby villages. We haven’t noticed presence of any heavy metal in the groundwater. Moreover, some villagers have accepted that stench from the plant has come down,” said an MCG official. 
 
 Gurgaon: Bandhwari villagers are likely to meet Gurgaon deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh on Monday, demanding relocation of the waste treatment plant that has been causing serious soil, air and groundwater pollution in the area.
 
 They are getting support from the neighbourhood too. Vaishali Rana, a resident of Valley View, a society on Gurgaon-Faridabad road, said their major concern was groundwater contamination. “We will be the first ones to be affected by the groundwater pollution. So, we have decided to meet the deputy commissioner and put forward our concerns.”
 
 The villagers, who have been protesting against the MCG’s plan to hand over the now-defunct plant to a Chinese firm for setting up a waste-to-energy unit there, have also written to the chief minister’s office, seeking his intervention. “Civic authorities of Gurgaon and Faridabad started dumping garbage in a mining ditch in forests near Bandhwari way back in 2008. Subsequently, a waste treatment plant was set up in 2011. But it turned defunct following a major fire in 2013. However, Hundreds of tonnes of garbage from Gurgaon and Faridabad is being ferried to Bandhwari landfill daily. Apart from spreading germs, the garbage has been contaminating the groundwater, to such an extent that it is unfit even for consumption by animals. We request you to reallocate the plant from the area immediately,” reads the letter written to the CMO on Saturday.
 
 The villagers said they would up the ante on the issue and approach the Prime Minister’s Office for action if the district administration and the state government fail to address their concerns. Moreover, the villagers raised serious concerns over the MCG’s proposal to hand over the plant to a Chinese firm. “The existing waste treatment plant has become an open dumping ground. And the proposed waste-to-energy unit will cause more pollution in the area. We just want this plant to be reallocated,” said Manoj, another villager.
 
 But MCG officials refuted the allegations. “We are regularly testing groundwater of Bandhwari and nearby villages. We haven’t noticed presence of any heavy metal in the groundwater. Moreover, some villagers have accepted that stench from the plant has come down,” said an MCG official. 
 
 
