NEW DELHI: Just a fortnight before the registration of Bharat Stage 3 (BS3) vehicles is supposed to stop all over the country, a section of automobile industry is hoping that the deadline will be deferred or interpreted in a way that sales could continue after March 31 too.

 A group of automobile manufacturers claim to be saddled with an inventory of nearly 9 lakh BS3 vehicles, worth over Rs 12,000 crore, which will become obsolete if the deadline is indeed enforced. According to an order of the Supreme Court-mandated Environment Pollution Control Authority ( ), only BS4-compliant vehicles will be registered in the country from April this year.
 
 The issue has divided the industry right through the middle. While a section - of mainly top passenger carmakers like   and two-wheeler company   -is clear that sale of BS3 vehicles must discontinue after March 31, another group, which includes  , Hero MotoCorp and Mahindra and Mahindra (M&M), is pushing for the sale of the previous-generation vehicles to go on till inventory lasts.
 
 Those looking for the deferment of the new norms are supported by industry lobby grouping Siam (Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers). 
 
 The confusion stems from the fact that, while a 2015 notification from the road transport and highways ministry spoke about mandatory manufacturing of BS4 vehicles from April 2017, it made no mention of whether the sale of BS3 inventory would be allowed. In October last year, EPCA directed vehicle manufacturers that no non-BS4 vehicle will be registered after April 1. Under section 5 of the Environment Protection Act, the EPCA has powers to issue orders on violation of various environmental standards.
 
 The matter is scheduled to be heard by the Supreme Court on March 20, while the National Green Tribunal (NGT) is also looking into the issue.
 
 Almost all carmakers such as  , Hyundai, Toyota, Ford and   are already selling BS4 vehicles, but the issue of BS3 inventory is a serious one for the commercial vehicles industry, where a lot of old-generation stock is lying in the market. It is equally critical for two-wheeler players, who too have a large number of stocks.
 
 According to industry estimates, nearly 75,000 units of BS3 commercial vehicles will be left unsold at the end of March, leaving a question mark on their usefulness in case registration is not allowed. While players like Tata Motors,   and M&M are pushing for the sale of the stock till they last, some of the rivals are opposing this.
 
 BharatBenz, the commercial vehicles arm of German giant Daimler, has voiced concern over any leniency. "Continuing discussions on BS4 are reflecting obvious attempts of some players in the commercial vehicle industry to dilute this upcoming transition of emissions standards," said Erich Nesselhauf, MD & CEO of Daimler India Commercial Vehicles (DICV).
 
 Pawan Goenka, MD of M&M and former Siam president, however, does not find any merit in the argument."How is it possible to discontinue their sale and registration? What do I do with the inventory? We are too late in the game to be talking about a change."
 
 Goenka further added, "The rule is clear. There should not be manufacturing of BS3 vehicles from April 1. It never bars their sale."
 
