Nagpur: In a bid to tackle water pollution due to Plaster of Paris (PoP) idol immersion during Ganesh Chaturthi, the National Environmental Engineering and Research Institute (Neeri) in collaboration with city police and Maharashtra Times will be implementing a ‘do at home’ first-of-its-kind technique this festive season. Developed by National Chemical Laboratory (NCL), Pune, the technique uses ammonium bicarbonate solution to dissolve the PoP idols and is being introduced for the first time in Vidarbha and second time in the country. Based on a chemical reaction, the by-products formed in this procedure can be used as fertilizers and construction materials.  Krishna Khairnar, a scientist at Neeri’s virology division, said, “The process involves usage of ammonium bicarbonate, which when reacts with PoP idols in the presence of water, forms ammonium sulphate and calcium carbonate as by products along with water. Both the resultants are eco-friendly, with the former being used as fertilizer and the latter as construction material.” The idea germinated when Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) approached NCL following the Bombay High Court’s ban on PoP idols in 2011. Despite the ban, people continued using PoP idols, resulting in massive pollution of water bodies. “We then decided to develop a scientific solution to the problem which can be implemented at homes too,” said Shubhangi Umbarkar, scientist at NCL. In late 2014, MK Dongare, retired senior scientist and Umbarkar started working on this project. “Since religious sentiments are attached with the festival, we knew people would refrain from using chemicals and decided to go for food grade. We first experimented with baking soda but it didn’t work out. Next, we tried using different carbonate containing compounds but that too failed to achieve desired results,” said Umbarkar. Finally, ammonium bicarbonate, which is commonly used in bakery, gave the expected outcome. “Last year, the technique was implemented in Pune and more than 30,000 idols were successfully disintegrated in an eco-friendly manner. PMC even bought 100 tonnes of ammonium bicarbonate and distributed it to the citizens,” added Umbarkar. This year, Neeri approached NCL and decided to introduce the same in the city. The institute has prepared three tanks, out of which two will be dedicated for immersing PoP idols using NCL’s technique. To assess the effectiveness of the by-products, Neeri will carry out laboratory testing of the residual products, especially heavy metals. “Neeri will be kept open for general public on the visarjan day. This will be a good opportunity for citizens who wish to celebrate in an eco-friendly manner, with Neeri targeting immersion of around 450 idols,” said Neeri’s PRO Prakash Kumbhare.