NEW DELHI: They had a dream to set up their own businesses, but it was never meant to be. The lives of Ritu, Sanchit and Rajat were snuffed out while they were on their way to give their first year BBA examination. In memory of their children, the parents of Ritu and Sanchit have donated their eyes.

 The friends had been up till 4am discussing about the paper they had to appear for on Monday. Ritu left home in a hurry drinking only half a cup of tea. “Someone had told them that the exam centre was located on the outskirts of the city and they would have to leave early to reach in time. We agreed to let her go with her friends since they had planned to travel by hired cabs, but they seemed to have changed their minds midway,” said her father Makhan Lal.
 
 Lal had left for work in Gurgaon when he received a call about his daughter being involved in an accident. “I was shocked to hear that she was travelling with so many people in a car. She left home in   after booking a cab on an App. I thought she had gone to her exam centre until someone informed me that she was admitted in a hospital in  ,” he said. Doctors said she suffocated to death as the others, who were unconscious, fell on her.
 
 Ritu was the brightest among her sisters and Lal had hoped that she would bring laurels to the family. “During her last-minute preparations on Sunday night, I asked her to rest. But she told me that she needed to score good marks. Before leaving she left a text saying she wanted to have parantha. That was the last we heard from her,” he said.
 
 Sanchit’s father, Raj Kumar, an administrator’s PS at Lady Hardinge hospital, had taken leave from work to help him prepare for the examinations. “Our hopes have been dashed. He was a single child and I had hoped that he would own a business someday. If we had known that they would be going in one car to Narela, we would have stopped them,” said Kumar sitting outside the Sanjay Gandhi hospital mortuary.
 
 Rajat’s father has a utensils business in  . He had bought the car after his son got admission in the college.
 
 Lal and Kumar will now wait for the hospital to inform them once the eyes of their children are transplanted into someone. “We wish to see our children look at us through someone else,” said both parents with tears in their eyes.
 
 
