Gurgaon: Notorious gangster   was shifted from   to Delhi’s Tihar jail on Tuesday evening, following an order by a Dwarka court on Monday, responding to an appeal by Gurgaon police for the same day during a hearing of a case against Mahal registered by the Delhi crime branch in June. 

 Gurgaon police had appealed for Mahal to be transferred to Tihar, citing the possibility of a gang war breaking out in Bhondsi, where several members of rival gangs are currently lodged.
 
  
  
 
 The situation at Bhondsi, where several of Mahal’s arch rivals are already lodged, had turned volatile, after Mahal was brought to the Gurgaon prison from Delhi a few months ago. 
 
 Bhondsi is still home to several members of Mahal’s rival gangs, from gangster Binder Gujjar to gang members of slain gangster Sandeep Gadoli, including his brothers Kuldeep and Brahm Prakash. It also houses members of Mahal’s gang who were recently arrested in two cases of murder in  . Other criminals lodged in the jail include members of gangs led by Kaushal, Rakesh Hayatpuria, Badli and Ashok Rathi, as well of some Rohtak-based gangs, including the shooters who were arrested for the murder of Gujjar’s brother Manish. 
 
 Reliable sources said soon after Mahal reached Bhondsi, he and Gujjar joined hands, plotting to eliminate their rivals. In response, brothers and members of Gadoli’s gang also tied up with members of the Kaushal gang, who had teamed up with gangster Surender Geong, a partnership that came to the fore after the murders of gangster Mahesh alias Attack and Gujjar’s brother Pappu, both in October 2016, in which both are suspects. Geong was killed by police in an encounter in Karnal in April. 
 
 So far, the two consolidated gangs had stayed away from each other in Bhondsi, but cops have not ruled out the possibility of a gang war in jail. “Ever since Gadoli was eliminated, his gang members have been dying to kill Gujjar. Four shooters, who were arrested in Rohtak in January 2017, confessed of a plot to kill Gujjar at his daughter’s wedding, which he attended on parole. When they failed, and got arrested and transferred to Bhondsi, they began hatching a plot to kill him here,” said a senior officer of the crime branch.
 
 With Mahal’s transfer, cops reckon the possibility of confrontation between the gangs persist, but has lowered. “Mahal may have been shifted, but the threat of gang war remains,” said the crime branch officer, requesting anonymity. 
 
 It may be noted that Sandeep Gadoli was eliminated by Gurgaon police in an alleged fake encounter in a Mumbai hotel on February 7, 2016. Accusing cops of killing their boss at Gujjar’s behest, the Gadoli gang has been trying to kill Gujjar, managing to kill his brother Pappu in the interim. Sensing trouble, Gujjar has not left Bhondsi and has been appearing in court via video conference. “We’re seeking transfer of the entire lot to other districts as soon as possible,” said commissioner Sandeep Khirwar. Bhondsi super   said jail cops have been on their toes. “There are over 2,100 inmates here, some of whom are known rivals. We’ve written to other districts for the criminals to be shifted,” he added.
 
 
