CHANDIGARH: The   (SSATWA) has decided to launch a mass movement against ministry of human resource and development (MHRD) and ministry of finance (MOF) for not transferring due budget to Chandigarh.

 This was decided in the meeting of executive committee of SSATWA held on Friday at   at Sector 15 in Chandigarh in which the association condemned the government. They said it was ‘insensitive approach’ of MHRD and MOF to not transfer the second installment of   (SSA) of budget – Rs 32 crore – due to which three months’ salary of 1,000 junior basic, trained graduate government school teachers and 100 other employees is still pending.
 
 The mass movement will be launched on January 11 in Masjid ground wherein the teachers will lodge strong protest highlighting wrong-doing of the ministries and continue protest in all forms till the disbursal of budget.
 
 President of   said, “We are sending advance communication to MHRD and MOF under intimation to education department, Chandigarh, that both have violated the mandatory provision of Right to Education Act 2009 by not providing SSA budget to Chandigarh. MHRD has asked the UT to manage it from its state budget till they arrange budget from the finance ministry forgetting that unlike other states, UT has no state share under SSA as last year they took 100% responsibility of all UT’s including Chandigarh.”
 
 The association has earlier used all measures by meeting with director school education, finance secretary and UT advisor but no result came as the entire fault lies with MHRD and MOF, so the association has decided to launch a mass movement against both for not transferring the due budget to Chandigarh.
 
 “It is an insensitive blunder towards education by the Government of India by not transferring budget to UT and states already approved under SSA in 2016-17 due to which Chandigarh doesn’t have budget to pay three months’ pending salary of 1,000 teachers and other 100 employees,” said Rana.
 
 “To make the matter worse, it didn’t have budget to give advance order to NCERT for text books of over one lakh students studying in government schools of Chandigarh. UT administrator and member of parliament must negotiate the issue,” he added.
 
