CUTTACK: Success stories — be it that of an individual or a group — are seldom scripted alone. And it couldn’t be more true for   FC, who needed the all-round effort of its players, coach, support staff and management as well as the support of its state and fans to achieve what had seemed the impossible. 

 And one such name that inspired the club both on and off the field was  . The Liberian was named the Best Midfielder of the   for his relentless commitment as a defensive midfielder throughout the season. While on a high from their glorious title win, Jaryan has just one regret — that he could not be a part of the Aizawl FC squad in their all-important draw against Shillong Lajong in the final round of the league. 
 
 “I got my fourth yellow card in the match against Mohun Bagan which meant that I had to miss the tie against Lajong. It was very disappointing,” the skipper, who had been a vital cog in his club’s other 17 matches this season, said on Saturday. “But I was there at the sidelines on that day in Shillong trying to motivate the players and was egging them on to get the draw.”
 
 Having joined Aizawl FC in 2015 as a striker, Jaryan had a very disappointing outing. He failed to score a single goal as the team stared at the abyss of relegation. But after circumstances handed them a lifeline to play the I-League again, and with Ivorian striker Kamo Bayi being brought in by new coach Khalid Jamil, Jaryan made a decision.
 
 “I approached the club and Jamil and said that I would like to play as a midfielder,” said the 28-year-old. The rest, as they say, is now history.
 
 With the introduction of attacking medio Mahmoud al Amna into the squad this season, Jaryan took up a more defensive role and became the spearhead of Aizawl’s line of defence. His acumen helped Amna play a more creative role and that went a long way in helping Aizawl enhance their grip on top spot.
 
 But Jaryan does not want to rest on the laurels and wants his team to put up a great show in the   here. “The first match against Chennai will be very important for us. If we win that, we’ll regain the momentum that we had in the I-League,” concluded Jaryan.
 
 
