IMPHAL: BJP submitted a list of 32 MLAs — claiming a majority of two in 
  — to governor   on Sunday and furnished letters of support from regional parties.

 BJP, which won 21 seats, claimed the support of National People’s Party (4 MLAs), Naga People’s Front (4), LJP (1) and two others — lone independent   and T  , who was elected on a Trinamool ticket. CM   too met the governor and staked his claim. 
 
 He said that as the single largest party, Congress should be invited to 
  .
 
 
 
 Robindro Singh was with the BJP team, which included the party’s state incharge Prahlad Singh Patel, when it met the governor. 
 
 Congress MLA Shyam Kumar Singh too was present, although his name doesn’t figure on the list of MLAs backing BJP, inviting allegations of the saffron party trying to split Congress.
 
 Independent MLA Ashab was flown back to Guwahati amid high drama at Imphal airport, sources said. The drama began around noon when Ashab, elected from Jiribam bordering Cachar district of Assam, landed at Imphal airport from Guwahati, accompanied by Congress minister Abdul Nasir.
 
 According to Nasir, BJP MLA Biswajit Singh was waiting with CISF officials on the tarmac. He alleged that Biswajit took Ashab away with the help of CISF officials. 
 
 Security personnel at the airport said Ashab, after seeing the tussle between Biswajit and Nasir, said he wanted to return to Guwahati. He was flown back on a chartered aircraft.
 
 AICC general secretary C P Joshi alleged that Ashab’s “detention” by CISF was illegal and there was no bigger violation of democracy. “The Centre used the state machinery to sabotage democracy in Manipur,” he lamented. CISF refused to comment on Joshi’s allegation.
 
 BJP described Joshi’s comments as baseless. BJP general secretary Ram Madhav said, “We will prove our majority in the House. The people’s mandate was against Congress and CM Okram Ibobi Singh.”
 
 Congress received around 35% of the votes, while BJP dramatically raised its share to 36.3%. BJP, which won 21 seats against zero in 2012, now has support of 11 MLAs required to form the government — its third in the northeast. Manipur BJP general secretary Thongam Biswajit Singh and senior spokesman N Biren Singh are top contenders for the post.
 
 After 28 Congress MLAs elected Ibobi Singh as the new leader of the Congress legislature party, party spokesman Debabrata Singh said Congress would soon stake its claim to form the government.
 
 
 
 
