Hyderabad: From sharing a flat in Ameerpet to moving to two different continents to work with tech giants like Cisco and Nokia, getting bored of their cushy job and then coming back home to set up one of the early startups in the OTT space, both Vamshi Reddy and Shiva Kumar Bayyapunedi have come a long way in building   Technologies. OTT, which stands for ‘over-the-top’, is all about the delivery of video content via the internet.

 “When we came back in 2005, mobile was seen as the ‘next big thing’ and people were talking about 3G network. Here, we felt that video was not being tapped at all and decided to get into that space. VaaS (Video as a service) was picking up and the only way to monetise it was to work with telecom operators. That is how we started,” Reddy says. As content was only viewed on television, Apalya worked with content owners/developers and telecom companies to set up its Mobile TV, which among others, also live-streamed the IPL matches for the first four years. Recalling the early days, he points out that the founders barely had any idea about funding mechanisms such as VC firms or investment bankers as even these entities too were gaining ground in the country. However, given the traction Apalya gained in its early days, the startup was able to raise funds at regular intervals and till 2016, had raised around $20 million.
 
 Apart from building the platform and investing in technology, Apalya, in its earlier avatar, also used to aggregate content and distribute it via technology. But over a period of time, as the OTT space evolved in the country, this startup decided to shift gears.
 
 Reddy explains that the major shift in the last one-and-a-half-years has been that the startup has begun to provide its platform as a service to enable end-to-end OTT spectrum for large media players. It has consciously moved away from content aggregation as this was proving to be an expensive affair and one would require deep pockets to continue to acquire content.
 
 “We continued to invest in R&D, helping us identify the opportunity in the OTT space very early on. Today, we are ready with the most robust OTT platform `myplex’ and a deep-rooted relationship with various players in the ecosystem to enable a plug-and-play solution for customers looking to enter the OTT space,” he says adding that the company is already providing the platform to Vodafone Play and Sun NXT.
 
 Apalya’s COO Venugopal Iyengar points out that the company is also reaching out to players from the Middle East and South Africa and hopes to clinch deals with three to four big players in the near-term.
 
 Going ahead, the company will keep investing in technology and will also work towards deepening its expertise in areas of ‘consumer engagement’ so as to help its clients better engage with their audiences and retain them. The startup is also open to acquiring niche players in the areas of analytics and data science to help it in this area. 
 
 
