GURGAON: Imagine   without the bars. Or   without its breweries. And visiting a Trident or Leela without your favourite cocktails on the menu.

 As the excise department brings out the measuring tape from Saturday, there is a big question mark on the future of some of the city, and the rest of NCR’s, best-known  .
 
 The   on Friday clarified that apart from  ,   that are within 500 metres of a national or state highway, cannot serve liquor to guests from April 1. In Gurgaon, a city that has largely been built around the expressway, there are scores of bars and hotels that face uncertainty on their liquor licences.
 
 These include bars at prominent hotels like the Leela, Trident, Westin, Oberoi and Crowne Plaza and popular destinations in Cyber Hub and Sector 29, which is known for its microbreweries. Also keeping their fingers crossed are bars at the mall mile on MG Road as the excise department begins measuring the distance of these establishments from the expressway. 
 
 According to excise officials, the process of mapping is likely to start on Saturday and, once the distance from the highway is established, closure orders would be given the same day to those found to be in violation of the order.
 
 “We will start mapping the distance of liquor vends, restaurants and pubs from Saturday afternoon. If we find an outlet inside the 500-metre radius of the highway, we will order shutdown with immediate effect,” said HC Dahiya, excise commissioner, west Gurgaon.
 
 Asked if Cyber Hub would be affected too, officials said they would comment only after measurements are completed tomorrow.
 
 On Sector 29, the other popular hangout spot in the city that could be affected by the order, an excise official said the first lane of the Sector 29 market, which is closest to the highway, would in all likelihood bear the brunt of the order.
 
 “A few licences will indeed be cancelled in the first row of the Sector 29 market but the exact number can only be given out after taking measurements,” said a senior excise official. The official added that all the outlets on Sohna Road are also likely to be shut as they are right on the state highway.
 
 
