SAMBHAL: Fed up after decades of being denied haircuts at their own village due to an  , Valmikis at a   have threatened to convert to Islam, citing the recent agitation by   over oppression in Uttar Pradesh.
 
  At Fatehpur Shamsoi village under Bhajoie police station here, there are about 15,000 Thakurs and Brahmins, and about 1,250 Valmikis in 250 families. For decades since Independence, Valmikis have allegedly not been allowed to get haircuts or shaves from the village barbers, because upper castes declared that if the Dalits were given haircuts, the upper castes would not get haircuts from the ‘impure’ implements.
  
  A month ago, a Muslim barber agreed to give haircuts to a Valmiki family. Facing alleged upper caste pressure, when the family later turned up for a shave, he refused. This has snowballed into a major agitation, with all the Valmikis of the village now threatening to convert to Islam, following the path of national president of Valmiki Dharm Samaj, Lalla Babu Dravid, who had recently announced that the community would convert in the face of atrocities.
  
  “A month ago my cousins, Anil, Bhura and Birjesh Valmiki had got haircuts at Asif Ali’s barbershop. Some days later, when they turned up for a shave, Asif refused. He had been beaten up by upper caste villagers because he broke the rule,” said Saurabh Valmiki, 21, a villager.
  
  “The other barbers (the village has five) also refused to give us haircuts or shaves in fear. We filed a police complaint against them. When the police reached the village, all the barbers had shut shop and fled,” Saurabh added.
  
  Over the decades, Valmiki men have had to travel 15 to 20 km to towns like Chandausi, Bhajoie and Islamnagar to get haircuts.
  
  “The barbers, under pressure from upper caste communities here, refused to give haircuts to Valmikis. The barbershops have been shut ever since,” said village pradhan Chotay Lal Diwakar.
  
  On Monday afternoon, national president of Valmiki Dharm Samaj, Lalla Babu Dravid, along with other community leaders reached Fatehpur Shamsoi and called a panchayat . Former village pradhan Sanjeev Sharma and Bhajoie SHO Ranjan Sharma were also present. Dravid gave a 24-hour ultimatum to the upper castes in the village to reserve the diktat, or the community would leave the Hindu fold.
  
  “It is because of such atrocities that the Valmiki community here has decided that if it is not resolved, they will convert to Islam. The decision is now with the upper castes,” Dravid added.
  
  Upper caste representatives however denounced the allegations. “These charges are baseless and politically motivated. The real problem is between the Valmikis and the barbers. The upper castes have nothing to do with this. We tried to talk to the barbers’ families about this,” said Sanjeev Sharma.
  
  “We have deployed personnel at the village to maintain order and have informed the senior officials about the situation,” SHO Ranjan Sharma said.
