CHENNAI: Police are looking for a 36-year-old correspondent of a   in the city who drugged and raped his 15-year-old niece and kept blackmailing her with a  . The girl, a Class X student, immolated herself on Wednesday evening. 

 The girl had just returned from school when she found that her parents were not at home. She locked herself in a room and set herself ablaze. Hearing her screams, some of the family' neighbours rushed to the house, broke open the door, doused the flames and rushed the girl to   and Hospital where doctors declared her dead on arrival.
 
 Later, her parents recovered from the house a note believed to be written by the girl and addressed to them. The girl held Saravanan, the school correspondent who is married to her aunt, responsible for her death and wanted him punished.
 
 Police registered a case under IPC section 306 (abetment of suicide) and under section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and launched a search for Saravanan and Sasikala.
 
 Based on a statement from her parents, police said the girl in September 2016 visited her aunt's house and was alone when Saravanan offered her a soft drink apparently spiked with a sedative. The girl fell unconscious soon after and he raped her and captured the act on his phone.
 
 After she regained consciousness, he showed her the video and threatened to release it on the internet if she told her parents. Since then, a police officer said, Sarvanan kept harassing her, insisting that she come to his house, but she refused.
 
 "In February she attempted suicide," the officer said. After she was rescued and brought home from hospital, her parents asked her the reason and the girl blurted out the truth and said Saravanan was responsible.
 
 However, the girl's parents merely warned Saravanan to keep away from their daughter, the officer said. "They also requested the girl to remain silent over the issue, saying it would spoil her aunt's life," he added.
 
 Sarvanan kept calling up the girl at odd times, demanding that she meet him at his house and continue a physical relationship. He warned that he would post the   and circulate it among her friends if she didn't agree.
 
 Finally, unable to bear the torture, the girl ended her life on Wednesday, police said.
 
