KOLKATA: A   for   was made into law on Wednesday but not before a bedlam in the assembly led to the damage of acoustic equipment and furniture even as a scuffle between   ended in leader of the opposition, Abdul Mannan, being stretchered out and hospitalized. Mannan jumped up the moment the West Bengal Maintenance of Public Order (Amendment) Bill, 2017 was introduced. 

 Refusing to heed to speaker Biman Banerjee, who asked him to wait for a discussion, he continued his protest against the “black law“. The speaker then suspended him for a day. But the Congress leader rushed to the well of the House, first squatting and then lying down. A scuffle ensued as the House staffers tried to “forcibly evict“ Mannan and the opposition MLAs resisted. The opposition MLAs scuffled with the House staffers trying to forcibly evict Mannan and in the process several tables were broken and microphones damaged.
 
 
 The veteran Congress leader fell ill during the push-and-shove and was rushed to a hospital, where his blood pressure and heart beat were found to have shot up. Given his past health condition, he was fitted with a temporary pacemaker. He is, however, conscious. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee also dashed senior colleagues Manas Bhuniya, Sashi Panja and Sudarshan Ghosh Dastidar--all doctors--to oversee the treatment protocol.
 
 The Congress and the Left legisla tors staged a walkout from the House following the incident and the Speaker ordered an enquiry to ascertain the exact loses to the state exchequer due to damages. The bill was passed by a voice vote.
 
 Alleging manhandling and misbehaviour, the opposition  's House and Congress MLA Pratima Rajak claimed she was molested by the security officials.“They pulled me by my sari and tried to kick me,“ Rajak, a Burdwan MLA, said. Marshal Debabrata Mukhopadhyay said 11 member of his team, including women, were injured.
 
 Later chief minister Mamata Banerjee said in the assembly , “We are not introducing a new bill. It was a 1972 bill, which we have amended to make the perpetrator of vandalism pay compensation for the damage any individual or a group might cause. We cannot tolerate that someone or a group would set a vehicle ablaze or vandalize expensive, sophisticated instru ments worth crores for reason or no reason. Why are they opposed to this bill? Because they (opposition) don't believe in peaceful movements. They believe in destroying public and government property . We will not let this happen.“
 
 Left leader Sujan Chakraborty Left leader Sujan Chakraborty claimed the “collective compensation“ clause in the bill violates Article 19 --right to freedom of speech and expression. The opposition will boycott the assembly session on Thursday and till the Budget day on Friday.
 
