BATHINDA: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has expressed concern over the falling standards of education in government-run schools in Punjab. The party stated that 15 state-run schools had less than 10% pass percentage in the Class XII exams conducted by the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB).

 AAP MLA and leader of Opposition HS Phoolka is visiting such schools to prepare a report to put before the government in the coming budget session of the state assembly, with a demand to rejuvenate school education. On Friday, he visited four schools in Moga and one in Bathinda, where the dismal result of Class XII was recorded. Phoolka claimed that only five per cent of the total budget was spent on education in Punjab, and AAP demanded it be raised to 24%, as his party’s government had done in Delhi.
 
 The lawyer-politician addressed the media along with Talwandi Sabo MLA   and Nihal Singh Wala MLA Manjit Singh at Bathinda, and said: “Today, we visited a government senior secondary school at  , where only two out of 53 students have passed the Class XII. At Gholia Khurd, only one student out of 23 passed. At Bhaloor, only five out of 68 students passed the Class XII. All these schools are in Moga district.”
 
 “At Ganga Ablu Ki village in Bathinda, all seven girl students failed, bringing the result to zero per cent, despite the fact that this village falls in the parliamentary constituency of Union minister  , who claims to be a champion of the causes of girls,” said Phoolka. He said on Thursday he had visited the school in Jassowal village of Ludhiana, where only four students out of 82 cleared the Class XII board exam.
 
 Phoolka said: “We will prepare a detailed report, citing reasons for the falling standards of education in government schools. I will raise the issue in the state assembly in the coming budget session, and demand that the budget for education be raised to 24% from the current five per cent. AAP will insist on raising infrastructure, raising the strength of teachers, and making teachers accountable for the results of students.”
 
