CHANDIGARH: With the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) not approving the actual power cost for the current financial year, city residents will face the heat as the UT electricity department will be forced to levy higher fuel and power purchase cost adjustment (FPPCA) charges to recover the deficit.

 The rates of FPPCA, a charge added on a per-unit basis to each power bill over and above the regular tariff, is the difference between per unit actual cost of power purchase and per unit approved cost of power purchase.
 
 The commission has approved power purchase worth Rs 628 crore for the current financial year, which is lower than the cost of Rs 638.15 crore sanctioned for the last financial year, despite the electricity department purchasing higher number of units to meet the increase power demand.
 
 The commission in an order passed on Thursday re jected the petition of the department seeking review of the power purchase cost and power purchase quantum on a more realistic basis to avoid high FPPCA charge, which are calculated after every three months.
 
 FPPCA charges are levied on all the category of consumers ­ commercial, residential-except agriculture.
 
 Over the years, city residents have been objecting levying of FPPCA on grounds that the FPPCA formula used to calculate the charges is complex. During public hearing session held by JERC in March, the residents had demanded to replace the same with a fixed surcharge. To address the problem, department has roped in National Institute of Electronics and Information Technology (NIELIT) to develop software for online calculation of FPPCA.
 
 Electricity department generates bills for domestic customers bi-monthly. Domestic consumers are divided into four groups of 50,000 each and pay bills in six cycles a year. Bills of commercial consumers are generated every month.
 
 Federation   chairman   said that the department should not recover the power cost deficit from the consumers as they are already reeling under high power tariff.
 
 Purchase & deficit
 
 Chandigarh does not have its own power plant and buys from central generating stations such as Nuclear Power Corporation of India Limited, National Thermal Power Corporation Limited, Bhakra Beas Management Board, National Hydroelectric Power Corporation ( ) and the   (SJVN).Power allocation from each station is fixed for a year, while the deficit is met through an unallocated quota and short-term power purchase.
 
