Two traditional styles, both claiming to be more authentic than the other, came face to face at the   competition in  . Listening to the Aranmula and Kuttanadu styles gives the impression that the landlords of yesteryears are competing with the working class, though it is not intended to be so.

 Most of the participating teams, who were highly energetic, preferred to perform compositions from  's Kuchelavritham vanchippattu, though there were some who performed the songs of unknown poets. “In my opinion, the Kuttanadu style is more energetic and it actually captures the momentum of vanchippattu sung by the working people of Kuttanadu,“ said Sister Shanty FCC, who trained the first prize-winning team from Sacred Heart Girls H S, Muthalakodam, in Idukki, which followed the style. “Though the Aranmula style looks more elitist and refined in costume, the performance has a chanting style, which begins in a slow pace.“ But it is wrong to brand the Aranmula style as 'elitist', claimed  , who trained 11 teams for this year's Vanchippattu competition in the high school and higher secondary categories. Traditionally, people from all communities participate in singing vanchippatu, while rowing the palliyodams in Aranmula River, he said. “In my opinion both have their own merits, but I have felt the Aranmula style to be more poetic, rhythmic and appealing,“ he said.
 
 The clash between the raw and the refined appealed to the audience who thronged the venue. While the boys and girls who followed Kuttanadan style wore lungi and began with the typical Aarappu', the others, who wore mundu ` or set mundu, began with a tone of prayer. “The difference in these styles could be that Kuttanadu style has been traditionally performed by the working class, as against the elite landlords who sang them in Aranmula palliyodam races,“ said Joseph M P, an enthusiast who has studied the intricacies associated with vanchippattu.
 
 But, when both these styles are totally different, how both can be compared in a competition is the question.
 
