PATNA: Acting on a directive from CM  , the Bihar police on Monday formed an SIT (special investigation team) to probe the leakage of questions of the   (BSSC) examination held on Sunday.
 
  Talking to newsmen after his ‘Lok Samvad’, Nitish said he has asked chief secretary Anjani Kumar Singh and DGP P K Thakur to get the BSSC examinations probed from all angles. “Stern action will be taken against the guilty if the allegations of leakage is found true,” he said.
  
  Within hours, Patna IG N H Khan issued a letter, directing Patna SSP Manu Maharaaj to head the SIT which will have in it ASP (operations) Rakesh Dubey, Danapur SDPO Rajesh Kumar, Aghamkuan police station SHO Kamakhya Narayan Singh and Shahpur police station SHO  . The nine-member SIT will also have four Special   officers.
  
  A hand-written page with 135 one-word answers went viral on a social platform hours before the BSSC’s examination for Intermediate-level clerical grade posts was to begin at 11am on Sunday. Candidates as well as a section of local news channels later claimed the answers were of the questions asked in the examination.
  
  This is the second SIT formed by the government within a year for investigation into examination-related malpractices in the state. The other SIT, also headed by SSP Maharaaj, investigated the Bihar School Examination Board’s topper scam that rocked the state last year. Police later arrested the then BSEB chairman Lalkeshwar Prasad Singh, his wife and former JD(U) MLA Usha Sinha and others for their alleged involvement in the scam, investigations into which are still on.
  In connection with the BSSC examination question leak, incidentally, the Patna police have already arrested eight people -- on January 28 and February 4, day before the commission’s exams were held on January 29 and February 5. Police said the arrested people had taken money from several candidates to communicate answers via cellphones.
  
  Police suspect the racket also has links with certain Army personnel with whose help recruitments in the Army were “managed”. “Our probe into the Army job racket has, however, gone off track for now as the two Army personnel, whose names cropped up during investigations, have not been handed over to police for interrogation,” a senior Patna police officer told the media last week.
  
  Sources said police are not empowered by the Criminal Procedure Code to arrest a member of the Union government’s armed forces without the Centre’s nod. Apparently in view of this, a police team delivered the warrants of arrest, procured from a Patna court against the two Army personnel, to the Danapur cantonment last week.
  
  A senior cantonment officer in a letter to SSP Maharaaj later sought time to seek the Centre’s approval. He also informed the SSP that the two Army personnel would be produced before the civilian court. “The letter did not give any time frame for their production in the court,” Maharaaj said.
