Mumbai: Even as a hundred brands of   skirmish to grab consumer attention, sectoral penetration of   has been stagnating at 12% levels for the last few years. Consumer response with respect to pricing appears to be blocking growth prospects of this category.

 Deodorants are mainly sold as aerosol  , which make them a tad “unaffordable” to a large section of consumers. Most deo-sprays are priced upwards of Rs 100. It turns out, consumers are not willing to spend anything more than Rs 99 to ‘smell’ good, a key insight companies are now applying to new launches to break through the psychological price barrier.
 
 Vivek Gambhir, MD,   Consumer Products, which launched a   deo stick at Rs 69, told TOI, “In deodorants, unless you get to these price points in India, affordability becomes an issue. Psychologically, anything below Rs 99 for deos is a good enough price point. Although youngsters may still spend, the per capita incomes are low. There lies the bulk of opportunity.”
 
 Beiersdorf’s  , too, has a roll-on at a price point of Rs 99 now. Consumers are gradually catching the whiff of the new price points. Rakshit Hargave, SVP (India region & sub-Sahara Africa sales, near east) at Beiersdorf, said, “In deodorants, a combination of proposition and price can help increase category penetration. Several other categories are price-sensitive for the consumer. It depends on the positioning and the value proposition. Generally, if you want to address the ‘sweet spot’ of the market, my take is that the ‘right price’ is much more relevant than just ‘low price’.”
 
 Both category development as well as the business model of aerosol deodorants are two factors impacting growth. The business model of aerosol deodorants, according to Hargave, has prevented lower price points. Thus, sticks and   are now doing the job of increasing category penetration, much like the low-unit price point sachets did for shampoos.
 
 “Most players market deodorants as a substitute for fragrance and do not address the core issue of sweat and odour. Nivea deodoriser has made a difference there. Across developing markets, odour/sweat have driven penetration. The introduction of gas-free perfumes has only accentuated the perfume market, uptrading existing consumers’ price point without any significant penetration increase. The focus is more on discounts than on developing the category,” said Hargave.
 
 Darshan Patel, founder & CMD, Vini Cosmetics, which markets the leading deodorant brand ‘Fogg’ that popularised no-gas fragrances, said the company is exploring sub-Rs 100 price points. “Price point is an issue in deodorants at present, because the Indian consumers are very value conscious. Companies will have to invest in market development to grow penetration. However, with the India growth story expected to take off, and rising per capita incomes, I believe the deodorant market penetration will increase to 30-40% in a span of 7-10 years,” said Patel.
 
 ITC, a late entrant in the category, too is believed to be exploring the sub-Rs 100 price point in the Rs 2,500-crore deodorant market. With its brand ‘Engage’, ITC believes in redefining the fragrance category through communication along with portfolio offering. Sameer Satpathy, chief executive (personal care products business) at ITC, said, “Deodorising is an under-penetrated grooming concept in India. With the evolving attitude and lifestyle of consumers, the segment offers an enormous opportunity to educate and drive category growth. Desire, affordability and convenience will continue to be the core.”
 
 
