Margao: The blaze at the Kadamba bus stand at Panaji on Monday has once again highlighted the vulnerability of public structures to fire hazards. In the absence of periodic fire audits by authorities, the threat worsens.  Take the case of Margao’s new municipal market and Gandhi market. While officials of the fire and emergency services acknowledge that the two markets are highly prone to fire hazards, no serious measures have been taken to mitigate the threat. Disasters, sources say, could only be waiting in the wings, if the situation is allowed to persist. Dealing in a diverse range of items, the markets accommodate over 1,000 traders, occupying every inch of available space.  Enter the maze of shops lined in rows in either of the markets and the gravity of the potential disaster at once sinks in. Traders have encroached upon passages with gross impunity, and hardly any shop is equipped with the basic firefighting gear. “The highly congested market leaves no access for fire tenders in case of fire. What’s worse is that shopkeepers extend their shops onto the main road leaving little space for traffic and also encroach upon passages. The municipality should ensure that all encroachments on passages are cleared so that, in case of a disaster, the public can safely exit without causing stampede,” a senior official attached to the fire and emergency services told TOI, preferring anonymity Of the 40 fire hydrants installed by the fire services at various places in Margao in 1985, sources informed, most have been rendered non-functional. Moreover, sources in the fire services said that the fire hydrants are connected to the public water supply network, which does not offer sufficient water pressure that the fire fighting operation needs. To overcome the problem, the fire services and the Margao Municipal Council (MMC) had decided to construct a dedicated overhead water tank. However, the proposal has been hanging fire for the last 7-8 years, largely on account of bureaucratic hurdles, sources said.  The civic body grants trade licences to shops only after a NOC from the fire services is obtained certifying that safety measures have been put in place. However, as most traders from the market do not have any trade licences — most of them being sopo payers or illegal encroachers — authorities are unable to enforce the conditions, it is reliably learnt. Sources in the fire services told TOI that a fire safety audit of a few public buildings was conducted some five years ago, and a review report submitted to the authorities outlining recommendations to enhance fire safety management procedures. Sources said the report’s recommendations are yet to be acted upon. Deputy director, fire and emergency services, south zone, Nitin Raikar, when contacted, admitted that no safety audits have been conducted recently. 