Across the globe, every big occasion is celebrated with something sweet, and any piece of good news calls for a sugary treat. A meal without dessert isn’t considered to be enjoyable, and no dessert is complete without a hint of sweetness. However,   can be addictive, as it activates the same brain regions as alcohol or nicotine, triggering what is known as the “reward system”. Excess sugar intake is also known to be strongly associated with heart disease, obesity and diabetes. It is now increasingly apparent that excess sugar intake could be debilitating to the health of the brain as well.

 The human body doesn’t really need added sugar in the  . Complex carbohydrates in our food can be broken down into simpler sugars which can be used to generate energy. Fruits and vegetables contain their own natural sugars that are better for the body. It’s only for the sake of our taste buds that we add sugar to our food and beverages. 
 
 Two studies have highlighted that damage to the brain could be associated with regular intake of sugary or diet beverages. In the first study, Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scans from 4,000 people, along with memory testing, revealed that the brain of people who drank more than two sugary beverages in a day tended to age faster. This was demonstrated by reduced brain volume, poor memory, and shrinkage in the brain’s memory center, the hippocampus. All these factors are signs of early stage Alzheimer’s disease. In addition, consuming even one diet soda per day was associated with reduction of brain volume. In the second study, researchers found an alarming correlation between intake of diet soda and occurrence of   and dementia. The results revealed that in people over the age of 60 years, consumption of at least one diet soda per day increased the risk of developing stroke or dementia by nearly three times. Diabetic patients tend to consume more diet soda in an effort to curb their sugar intake. However, these results indicate that diabetics in particular should avoid diet soda, as diabetes is one of the key risk factors for dementia. So start small, when you’re thirsty, it’s best to stick with water!
 
 Your sweet tooth may crave it, but it’s better to avoid that sugary or diet soda altogether. It isn’t easy to resist the sweet cravings when they arise. 
 
 
 
 
 
