Chandigarh: If you stand on Platform XI of Inter-State Bus Terminus,   (ISBT-17), your eyes are bound to fall upon a moderately big room made of glass, full of brand-new, plastic-wrapped chairs and two air-conditioning vents in the ceiling. On a closer look, you will find a metal lock hanging on both the entrance doors to the room.

 The construction of this AC waiting room, carried out by the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking, finished nine months ago, but its doors are yet to be opened to the public. This is because, according to CTU officials, the engineering department of the UT administration has been slow in getting it ready.
 
 ISBT-17 plays host to nearly a lakh passengers every day, and the number is expected to rise because the festive season is round the corner. Though it is clean, the bus stand does not have a single indoor-waiting room.
 
 CTU general manager Ankit Gupta said the room’s inauguration was on hold because there were no chairs earlier and the engineering department sent them on Saturday. “We had planned to open it today, but postponed it because it was still not complete. The AC should also be working. The engineering department should have floated the tender for chairs much sooner or maybe there were no bidders. For more details, please contact them,” he said.
 
 More often than not, passengers wait on stone slabs installed across the bus stand with wall fans. Though they seem comfortable, it is tough waiting there when summer and winter are at their peak — a reason why the AC waiting room was built.
 
 Asked who could use the waiting room, Gupta said it was for passengers who travelled in luxury buses. “But if it has space, general passengers can use it. It should be opened next week,” he said. Shopkeepers also do not have any information about the CTU's plan for the room. “If the room is opened, it will be good for passengers who wait at night,” said Govind Sharma, a shopkeeper right next to the waiting room.
 
 Sources said CTU’s monthly revenue from renting out shops at the ISBT was nearly Rs 1 crore and it did not even spend even a lakh on maintenance and facilities of the  , barring the waiting room which had been constructed for about of Rs 7 lakh. A shopkeeper said the waiting room was a step taken by the CTU just to satisfy higher-ups. “They refurbish the bus stand temporarily to put up a good show,” said a shopkeeper.
 
 
