KOLHAPUR: The Archaeological Survey Of India (ASI) is set to begin work on the first phase of the restoration of the Raigad fort by March-end, said   MP  .

 The MP, who is the brand ambassador of forts in Maharashtra and a descendent of Maratha king Shivaji, said the ASI recently gave in-principle nod for commencement of restoration work at Raigad fort. The fort was the power centre during Shivaji’s rule. 
 
 The fort, which rises 1,350 metres above sea level, is located in the Sahyadri mountain range. There are approximately 1,400 steps leading to the fort, though a ropeway takes visitors to the top of the fort in 10 minutes. 
 
 Chief minister   had announced a Rs 563-crore restoration and development project for the fort located in Konkan region, which also houses the `samadhi' (final resting place) of Chhatrapati Shivaji. About Rs 9 crore meant for the first phase of the restoration work was recently credited to the accounts of the ASI and the work will begin within one month, said Sambhajiraje.
 
 The work has been divided into several phases and the idea is to bring back the glory of the fort, he said. “Another five forts in the state will also be developed on the same lines.” 
 
 Last year, the BJP-run state government had said they would try to enlist the over-300-year-old fort in the heritage list of the  . “We are trying to enlist the fort in the list,” Sambhajiraje said. 
 
 The archaeology department has placed the forts in Maharashtra under category B, because of which they cannot receive funding from various agencies, including international funding. Fadnavis said the state government had signed a memorandum of understanding with the archaeological department for conservation of all the historic forts and his government would ensure funding for the same from the government treasury.
 
 Fadnavis said that there are many places in Unesco's heritage list, but the historic forts in Maharashtra do not figure in it. He added that he recently discussed the issue with Sambhajiraje and, under his guidance, the state government would ensure that the forts are included in the list.
 
 In December 2016, a massive teak wood door weighing nearly 4 tonnes and 4.7 metres in height was fitted at the main entrance of the Raigad fort by the ASI.
 
 The new door was designed to look similar to the fort doors of the old era. The carpenters built this door at Aurangabad, after studying the main door of Janjira fort near Alibaug.
 
