CHENNAI: It has been nearly three months since a minor dalit girl was abducted, gangraped, murdered and her half-burnt body was dumped in a village well in Ariyalur district of Tamil Nadu. The 16-year-old was found pregnant at the time of death, and it is seen as a   due to caste atrocity, as a local Hindu Munnani functionary and a member of a dominant community figure in the list of arrested suspects.

 A distraught mother, Rajakili, has now moved the high court narrating how, for 15 days, the Ariyalur district police made him run from pillar to post without even first registering an abduction case and then not properly investigating it. Finally on January 14, 2017, they called to inform him that the girl, who had gone missing on December 29, 2016, had been found dead inside a well.
 
 Justice R Mahadevan, before whom senior advocate R Vaigai argued as to how the victim’s family had lost faith in the local police, said he would pass final orders in the case on March 27. He also instructed the prosecution side to obtain instructions from the Ariyalur police by then.
 
 It was Rajakili’s case that her daughter aged 16 years went missing from his home on December 29. Though he immediately lodged a police complaint, he was given only a CSR and no FIR was registered. Six days later, an FIR was registered and the case was shown as one of ‘girl missing’ and not abduction even though the mother had specifically mentioned persons suspected to have abducted his daughter. Right from a sub-inspector right up to the superintendent of police he represented to several officials, but no action was taken.
 
 On January 14, 2017, his daughter’s body was found in a well. The Jayamkondam deputy superintendent of police instead of taking the blame for the 15-day delay, scolded the grieving mother and said he had not brought up his daughter well.
 
 Had the officials taken proper initiative to secure his daughter, she might have been saved, he said. Even after the murder came to light, they did not take prompt action and arrest the accused, till the issue was highlighted by social activists and politicians, he added. 
 
 Investigation completely lacked sincerity and the fundamental right to life and fair and proper investigation had been trampled upon, he said.
 
 The mother now wants the case to be handed over to the   to be investigated by a woman officer not below the rank of deputy superintendent of police, and the three police officials named by him be proceeded against for their failure to prevent   and death of the minor girl, and to punish them for inaction after the crime came to light.
 
 
