After the huge success her first super-heroine movie ' ,' director   is now turning to Television.

 According to The Hollywood Reporter, TNT has handed out a six-episode straight-to-series pickup for 'One Day She'll Darken', starring Wonder Woman's  , with Jenkins set to direct and executive produce the project.
 
 The series, inspired by the autobiography of Fauna Hodel, will be written by Jenkins' husband and author Sam Sheridan.
 
 The story focuses on Hodel, who was given away by her teenage birth mother to a black restroom attendant in a Nevada casino in 1949. As she begins to investigate the secrets to her past, she follows a sinister trail that swirls closer to an infamous Hollywood gynecologist, Dr. George Hodel, who was involved in the legendary Black Dahlia slaying of Elizabeth Short in Los Angeles in 1947.
 
 Pine, who played the role of Steve Trevor in 'Wonder Woman', will star as Jay Singletary, a former Marine turned hack reporter/paparazzo.
 
 Singletary was disgraced about his story about Hodel years ago, but now sees a glimmer of redemption. This may be the opportunity he has been hopelessly waiting for, but inside this riddle lies a moral quandary he never expected: a labyrinth into the evil in men's hearts that will shake the unsteady Singletary to his foundations.
 
 The announcement comes days after a release date was set for 'Wonder Woman 2' with Jenkins in talks to potentially return.
 
 The Warner Bros. feature has become the top-grossing movie from a female director.
 
 Sarah Aubrey, executive VP original programming at TNT, said, "One Day She'll Darken is a mind-boggling true mystery with unpredictable twists and turns and edge-of-your-seat chills. Sam Sheridan, an expert storyteller, has delivered scripts that entertain, frighten and tell tales of redemption and a powerful search for identity."
 
 Adding, "Chris Pine has wowed us with so many of his performances, and knowing how multidimensional his character is in One Day She'll Darken, we are so lucky to have an actor as talented as he is to lead this cast.
 
