CHENNAI:   has his own methods - be it bowling or batting. The rise of R Ashwin, the batsman, has enabled skipper Virat Kohli to stick to the five-bowler theory in the playing eleven and it has proved to be a key factor in India’s success throughout the on going home season.

 Ahead of the crucial Australia series, the world’s No1 allrounder has already chalked out plans to “tackle” the reverse swing of   and the potential spitting bounce and turn of  .
 
 Ashwin, who has four hundreds and 10 fifties in 63 Test innings, was sweating it out in the hot sun for about two hours at the RKM ground in Chennai with a specific plan in place under the guidance of his academy coach and batting coach  .
 
 For the first hour, Srinivasan turned Starc with a side-arm (throw down equipment) and “created” reverse swing from different angles at a short distance. Then he switched to off-spin, enacting Lyon, with Ashwin facing the deliveries from the bowler’s end that resembled the look of an unplayable, typical day five or six Indian wicket. Srinivasan has been working with Ashwin for the past six months and on Thursday the 42-year-old coach opened up on the areas that Ashwin has being working on to improve his batting.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The area (landing part of the bowlers at his nets) that Ashwin was playing is similar to a day five or six turner in India. I was bowling off-spin (keeping in mind Lyon) with the rough with a short-leg, leg-slip and a slip in place. We tried different scenarios and he worked on different shots that he could try against various deliveries…like how to play at the end of the day or when the ball spits and shoots through. Though I’m right-handed, I can produce a variety of angles using the side-arm to ensure Ashwin gets to face exactly how a left-arm pacer would do. We may have TN Ranji bowler Aushik Srinivas or a regular net bowler in Ashish (both left-arm spinners) in preparing for Steve O’Keefe and Ashton Agar.
 
 
 
 
 Ashwin is a very good timer of the ball. That’s his major strength. How to make him a more consistent batsman is what we have worked. I worked with his hand movement (not jabbing at the ball), how the hands can be soft and getting on top of the ball, how to deal with the first 15 minutes as and when he walks into the wicket. If you are able to handle those 15 minutes, then you will be able to understand the whole scenario. We have worked on his soft skills and a few technical things…how to overcome the initial temptations, the nervousness. Once you do that repeatedly, it becomes a habit. I think he is getting into that mode. Earlier his bat used to come from fine leg and he had to turn a bit to play on the leg side. We worked on his bat lift so that he can play more freely on the leg side. He also worked on having a 360 degree bat flow. You will definitely see him hitting more sixes.
 
 
 
 
 Being an international cricketer, he has interacted with a lot of coaches. He asks me a lot of questions. He won’t stop asking questions. But I think I give him satisfying answers. Then he accepts it. What I understood in seeing him is, inside, he wants to be a good batsman. He wanted to at least end his career with 10 hundreds. He wants to have a good average of 45. The interest started. He also identified that I could help him. Our relationship flourished. From then on, when the results came out, the trust factor started working.
 
 
 
 
 Instead of saying remodel, we are trying to increase his scoring areas. Ashwin was very good in the off-side. Now we are working on his leg-side play and different areas to play different bowlers. He has altered a few things such as elbow position, shoulder position, stance has changed a bit.
 
 
 
 
 He is ready to changes. He can change his action depending on the wicket and conditions. He keeps his options open. Even against England, he did that. He is not stereotype. He is a great thinker.
 
