Former Australian cricketer and international coach,  , and former Indian wicket keeper   were present at Sri Ramachandra University in Chennai as part of the inauguration of the university’s new   centre. The duo spoke to us on the sidelines of the event about their cricketing days in Chennai, the recently concluded India-Aus series, and more. Excerpts from a chat with them... 

 
 
 Whatmore: I played my first Test match in India at Cheapuk in 1979. We won the toss and batted first. I was number five and we were already three down on the first day. When I came out to bat, on the first day, I found that it was a beautiful wicket, aiding the batsmen. The next day, when I came out to bat, bloody thing was turning like crazy (laughs). I got out to a ball from Dilip Doshi without scoring many runs. The second innings wasn’t any better either. And as a coach, I have come here only on a few occasions. I remember coming here with the Kolkata Knight Riders to play against the Chennai Super Kings (CSK) twice. It was such a tough task playing against such a strong team like CSK and that too, on their home ground. Now, I am going to be here in Chennai for quite some time and I hope to explore the city. I am sure there is a lot more to see and explore here than just the Chepauk stadium and this university (laughs). 
 Kirmani: I was born in Chennai. But while I was just a child, we moved to Hyderabad, and then to Bengaluru. The most memorable moment for me at Chepauk is the historic ninth wicket partnership with Sunil Gavaskar against West Indies. The West Indian bowlers were so upset with some umpiring decisions... and I remember the two beamers bowled by Michael Holding aimed at my body. I had to dive to save my head... and there were no helmets back then. 
 
 
 
 Whatmore: Usually, what people see during the match is the result of all the preparations that happen before that. People simply come, watch the game and leave. Not many really think about what goes behind in improving the game of a player. For a player to perform at the peak of his form, he needs to undergo different programmes, including weight training, running, nutrition, etc. It is also important to develop mental skills which are crucial in handling stressful situations in a game. So, that sums up how science helps in making an individual a better player. 
 
 
 
 Whatmore: Yeah, you had some wonderful individual performances that helped India won the series, as much as some good performance from Australia, who were up for the fight. But Indians definitely outplayed them. India could have made it 3-1 as they had a huge advantage of winning in Ranchi as well. But Steve Smith and Glenn Maxwell batted really well to prevent India from winning the Test match. Chennai guy Ashwin has been one of the best players in the Indian team. Because of his ability to bat as well, he makes it easy to have five bowlers in the team. But I think his performance in this series could have been better. Another player who seems to be promising now is Jadeja, who is good both with the bat and ball. Such players give the team the extra depth.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 Kirmani: Anybody can keep wickets to the fastest bowler in the world. A wicket keeper excels when he stands up to spinners. You need to have proper techniques for that. But over the years, due to the advent of limited overs, the emphasis has changed — to have a batsman who can stop the ball. So, there has been a lot of change from my time to the present-day wicket keeping. Another thing is that a wicket keeper is the best judge of the game. And when Dhoni was made the captain, that was the best thing that could happen to the team. Earlier, it was considered that it would be an added burden on the wicket keeper if he was made the captain. But 
 Dhoni proved it wrong. 
 
 
 
 Kirmani: Yes, you need to have changes to break the monotony. During our time, the cricketing drills were only taking catches and fielding. Now, during trainings, cricketers play football, rugby, voleyball and what not! So, it’s good have changes... from Test cricket to 60-over and 50-over formats to T20s now. You never know; it might even become a 10-over format to keep the game interesting. I enjoy every bit of all the formats. Also, this gives the cricketer a chance to showcase how well he adapts to different formats. If one is able to adapt to all the three current formats, he has some class. 
 
 
 
 Whatmore: I think the team that can get some quick wickets, especially in the middle, will certainly give themselves a big chance to win this IPL.
 
 
 
 Whatmore: I have been to his house couple of times. He’s a very passionate owner. Though I didn’t have any chance to catch up on his movies, I also attended the premiere of his film, My Name Is Khan. Yeah, it was good and that was the first time I watched a Bollywood film.
 
 
 ..
 Kirmani: Yeah, when some filmmakers approached me, I just wanted to see how my small little head looks on the screen (laughs). With that intention, I did two films Kabhi Ajnabhi The and Mazhavillinattam Vare (a Malayalam film). That's all. 
 
