VISAKHAPATNAM: Children and   comprise around 20-30 per cent of   in the city, say doctors from various hospitals. Besides congenital abnormalities, changes in lifestyle, food habits, infections and consanguineous marriages of parents have been attributed to renal problems in children.

 While doctors are seeing patients who are as young as five-year-old, adolescents of 14-15 years and young adults in their 20s and 30s, in most cases of late detection and end stage renal failure, dialysis and transplant turn out to be the only options to save the lives of such patients.
 
 At King George Hospital (KGH), around 20% kidney patients are children and the causes are both congenital and infections, averred Dr G Prasad, nephrologist from KGH.
 
 Stating that 10-20% are paediatric kidney patients in the age group of 5-15 years, Dr P Sriram Naveen, consultant nephrologist from   said, “The main reasons are congenital abnormality of the kidneys by birth. It may happen if the mother-to-be is mal-nutritioned or taking certain drugs without medical consultation and also due to trauma and viral infection during pregnancy, which can affect the foetus. Also if the parents are close relatives like first cousins (consanguineous marriage), it automatically enhances the risk factor for kidney ailments in children. Another reason for kidney ailments is leakage of protein from urine, which affects the filtration activity and eventually damages the kidney.”
 
 Dr AV Venugopal, senior consultant nephrologist at Care Hospital added, “In young adults, IgA nephropathy is one of the causes for kidney ailments. IgA occurs when the antibody immunoglobulin A (IgA) settles in the kidneys. This results in local inflammation that in the long run obstruct the kidneys’ ability to filter waste products. Moreover, genetically, the Asian population is more prone to develop kidney ailments. In addition, modern day lifestyle changes that includes binging on junk food, smoking, drinking, and lack of physical activities – all enhance the risk of kidney ailments in young people or those in their 30s and 40s, while in the elderly population, diabetes and hypertension are the main reasons for kidney malfunction. Broadly, renal problems in children and young adults are either glomerular (affecting the filtration rate) or infectious (tubule-interstitial disease). 
 
 Speaking about the symptoms of kidney ailments in children and young adults, Dr Naveen stated, “Swelling of the body, abdomen and foot as well as urinary infection, fever, blood and puss discharge from urine are usual symptoms in early stages while recurrent vomiting, severe lethargy, failure to thrive (faltering height and weight as per the age or truncated growth), loss of appetite are symptoms of renal issues in the advanced stage. Moreover, since hypertension in children is abnormal, so any case of high blood pressure should be taken seriously and tests for kidney function should be carried out.”
 
 While in the early stages, kidney ailments can be managed medically with certain dietary modifications, but once the patient develops chronic kidney disease or end-stage renal failure (when glomerular filtration rate goes below 15 ml/minute) then dialysis (thrice a week lifelong) or transplant become the option. If donors are available, then kidney transplant is suggested for children and youngsters rather than dialysis for prolonged and better quality of life, point out doctors.
 
