New Delhi: Delhi Pradesh   Committee (DPCC) chief Ajay  , along with former Union minister P Chidambaram, released a “blueprint” for financial stability in the three municipal   on Monday. 

 The draft report focuses on making the civic bodies financially self-reliant. The highlights of the report will be part of the party manifesto for the upcoming municipal polls. Stressing on the poor performance of the BJP-ruled civic bodies, Maken said that right now only 33% of Delhi’s population was paying property tax and the party had failed to expand the tax net. “There is a need for major reforms in property tax collection. BJP has failed to expand the tax bracket. We aim to increase the property tax collection by at least three times. We can use GIS and other techniques to identify properties,” said Maken.
 
 He also pointed out that how the municipalities continued to face employees’ wrath over non-payment of salary and arrears and how employees were forced to take to the streets to press for their demands. “The employees are not happy with the way civic bodies are functioning. There have been so many strikes due to non-payment of their salaries for the past two years.”
 
 He further said that New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) earns around Rs 450 crore annually as rents. “NDMC looks after only a small portion of Delhi, yet it is financially stable and most of its expenditure is taken care of by internal revenue sources. The three municipalities, on the other hand, have done nothing with their properties,” Maken claimed.
 
 Revenue generation from other sources like parking, advertisement and toll tax is equally abysmal, he said. “Most of the funds the three corporations have received under Swachh Bharat Abhiyan remained unspent. The expenditure in major sectors like sanitation, education and primary health has gone down and a major chunk of budgetary allocation remains unspent. In the past few years, the three corporations have not completed even a single development project in the capital,” Maken alleged.
 
 Chidambaram stressed on the introduction of municipal bonds, which reportedly have made many civic bodies in smaller cities self-reliant. “Floating municipal bonds and credit rating for municipalities are important to bring transparency and accountability. The   will be put in public domain for 10 days to seek public suggestions and a final draft will be prepared by Congress. We appeal to the public to come forward and give their suggestions,” said the former Union finance minister.
 
 
