AHMEDABAD: The architect of BJP’s spectacular sweep in Uttar Pradesh,  , received a hero’s welcome on his arrival in   on Wednesday. He used the opportunity at the Sabarmati Riverfront to virtually kick-start party’s campaign for the   later this year.
 
  The party’s national president is also an MLA from Naranpura assembly constituency in Ahmedabad and is scheduled to attend the ongoing assembly session on Thursday.
  
  With mercury hovering over 42 degrees, close to one lakh BJP workers from all over the state, many with masks of   and Amit Shah, flocked to the venue along with all the senior leaders of state BJP, including Union MoS agriculture Parshottam Rupala, chief minister Vijay Rupani, BJP Gujarat president Jitu Vaghani and former chief minister Anandi Patel.
  
  Sounding the campaign bugle for 2017 Gujarat assembly election, Shah on Tuesday said that “no one can defeat BJP in Gujarat.” Shah exhorted BJP workers to work for winning more than 150 seats. “When Narendra bhai was the CM, we got 128 seats; now that he is the PM, 150 should come,” Shah said. Shah further claimed that BJP’s victories were not on communal grounds or polarisation but due to “politics of performance”.
  
  He also targeted opposition   in a big way and said during Congress regime curfew was a routine affair in the state and Sabarmati looked like a drain. People of the state have forgotten the experience of curfew in BJP rule, Shah said, adding it was Narendra Modi who brought Narmada water to Sabarmati.
  
  Shah also targeted Congress Vice President Rahul Gandhi and asked the crowd if they know “Rahul-baba.”
  
  Further, he took on Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which is attempting to get a toehold in the state polity, saying AAP appears in election-bound states and vanishes after the election. Shah held a meeting with Gujarat BJP president Jitu Vaghani and chief minister Vijay Rupani at Circuit House after landing in Ahmedabad.
  
  Meanwhile, BJP IT Cell held a meeting at BJP headquarters in Gandhinagar to deliberate upon the strategies for cyber campaigning in the forthcoming election.
  
  It will not be out of place to mention here that the BJP has been dealing with serious anti-incumbency of more than two decades in the state further accentuated after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s departure from the state. A spate of agitations by Patidars, Dalits and Anganwadi workers have swept the state, with Patidar agitators directly targeting Amit Shah for the harsh police action taken against the community in 2015.
  
  While speculations of a possible early election to reap the dividends of UP victory has been doing the rounds in Gujarat for a while, opposition Congress has been making attempts to put its house in order for such a possibility.
  
