PUNE: An   travelling by an   lost gold   worth Rs 6.60 lakh as she fell for a friendly suggestion of two co-passengers that ‘vada-pav is an oily food’ and   is a safer option.

 By the time the biscuit turned out to be  , the duo had decamped with the ornaments — leaving behind the 60-year-old woman from Pimpri travelling from Ahmednagar to Pune unconscious on the bus. 
 
 Sugandha Jadhav, a resident of Sant Tukaramnagar in Pimpri, remained unconscious in a hospital for three days. Once she got back to her senses, Jadhav lodged the complaint with the Pimpri police. After initial investigation, the Pimpri police transferred the case to their Kotwali counterparts on Friday.
 
 Jadhav’s son, Sumit, told TOI that in the last week of March, his mother had gone to Ahmednagar to meet her aunt. On her way back home on March 30, she boarded a Dharur-Pune Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation bus from Ahmednagar. 
 
 “My mother always travels alone despite her age,” Sumit said. He added that on regaining consciousness, his mother recalled that two unidentified men offered her a seat after she boarded the bus. 
 
 “When my mother bought a ticket for Vallabhnagar stand in Pimri, the two also purchased tickets for the same stand and started conversing with her,” Sumit said.
 
 “They gained my mother’s confidence by talking about their families. Once they succeeded in building a rapport, she too started talking freely with them. On the way, my mother bought ‘vada-pav’. The duo then told her that she should not eat such oily food while travelling. They also told my mother that no one knows the quality of oil used by the road-side food vendors,” Sumit said.
 
 It was then one of them offered two cream biscuits to Sugandha. “She initially turned down the offer, as she is not fond of such biscuits. However, my mother accepted the offer following persistent requests,” Sumit said.
 
 Once the woman had the biscuit, she started feeling sleepy. “She was awake till the bus entered the Supa stand. After that, she does not remember anything,” he said.
 
 Help on board
 
 When the conductor of the bus found that the Sugandha was not responding to his calls, he alerted the driver first. The duo then approached police and she was taken to the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital (YCMH). “All this while, I was trying to contact my mother on her cellphone. But it kept on ringing. We later came to know that she was in YCMH,” Sumit said.
 
 On reaching the hospital, Sumit said, he found that her two gold chains, bangles and rings collectively worth Rs 6.60 lakh were missing. “Her cellphone and cash were intact inside the purse,” he said.
 
 It was on the fourth day since the robbery that Sugandha regained her consciousness and narrated the incident. “We also found a packet of snacks in her purse. My mother claimed that she had not bought it. We have handed it to police,” Sumit said. 
 
