When she began, all Pune-based   knew was that she was looking for an idea, where sport created an impact. “I know the extent to which sport can bring about change in a person’s life; even if it means gaining confidence when you have none,” says the documentary filmmaker. 

 Lots of research led her to meeting Tudu, a Santhal tribal boy from West Bengal, and Zaffar, an Afghan-born Indian from Kolkata, who had both chanced upon Rugby, what’s often considered an elite colonial game. In them, she found her two central characters for Zaffar & Tudu, her feature length 
 documentary. 
 “I remember heading to Kolkata with a second-class sleeper ticket before things took shape. It was just me and my camera, and I did not know back then if I’d come back with a story or not,” recalls Kavita. 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 The film tells the story of the two boys; how they embark on parallel journeys to their native lands with the hope of finding answers through Rugby. 
 “I started off in 2011, shooting through till 2013. For most, it was just me with the boys. But I guess it worked in favour of the film; it turned out to be a lot more intimate in terms of the camera shots and proximity to the characters,” says Kavita. “Zaffar is a guy who likes to be in the limelight. Tudu, on the other hand, has a great presence about him, but is a little shy. Let’s just say, one knew how to play for the camera, and the other was a natural!” she quips, recounting the experience of shooting with the two. 
 
 Parts of the film have been shot in  . Kavita was filming in Kabul when it suffered one of the biggest terrorists attacks post 9/11. “Roads were blocked, and there was chaos everywhere. For a moment, I wondered, ‘Where am I? What the hell am I doing here?’ There were also instances when I was asked to stop filming by the security. But at the end, there’s so much I learnt about the beautiful country and its exceptionally good-looking, hospitable people,” adds Kavita.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Finally completed in 2016, Kavita screened the film for Zaffar and Tudu’s family and friends. She now plans to take it to festivals. “I’ve applied to about 35 festivals across the world and will only hear from them in March,” she says. 
 
 At the end, one might ask what the film’s essence really is. “It talks about perseverance, through which one finds a sense of belonging, which is eventually what shapes you. It is important to be passionate about something. That’s what all of us need,” says Kavita, signing off.
 
 ‘Zaffar & Tudu’ will be screened at National Film Archives of India ( ) on February 19 at 10 am.
 
 
 
