CHENNAI: Government documents show they are sealed, but unlicensed   in Kancheepuram ­ the district with the highest number of registered and unregistered homes­ continue to operate, a TOI investigation has found. Records with the directorate of social defence show 38 child care homes were shut in the district in the past month, 23 of them for serious violations including child abuse. Posing as donors, TOI contacted three of these institutions. They were quick to give details of their bank accounts, facilities and the children they shelter.

 An unregistered home in Pozhichalur, Baba Gurukulam, paraded children. Officials, meanwhile, were ignorant of the goings on in many homes. When asked about what happened to the children of these `closed' homes, Kancheepuram child protection officer said 1,500 children were sent to their “closest relatives“. Another official said some were sent to reg istered homes. R N Manikandan, chair man,   (CWC), Chengalpet said his officials had not seen any child before they were moved out.
 
 A different scene awaited TOI when it visited Baba Gurukulam, run by Universal Welfare Foundation Trust. Children were either locked inside or taken to a temporary location at the whiff of an inspection, but lined up for potential donors. Some children, the CWC later found, had gone missing from the home. These unaccounted children, however, continue to be used as fronts to get donations.
 
 Through a directive from the   in 2015, all children's homes were brought under the administrative control of the Directorate of Social Defence, which identified 1,110 child care institutions, licensed and unlicensed, with 62,932 children. They shut close to 300 homes that had no license. “April 30 was set as deadline to close homes that weren't registered,“ said David Paul, DCPO Kancheepuram.
 
 Of the total 122 homes identified in the district, 80, he said, were registered, while ten were in the process of applying for license. The rest had issues with infrastructure, insufficient documents and cases of child abuse which made them ineligible to apply for registration. Baba Gurukulum is among them.
 
 With around 5,700 children housed in 122 homes ­ registered and unregistered -Kancheepuram has the highest number of child care institutions in the state. Human rights activists and former field-level officers attached to the social welfare department say the number could be much higher as institutions failed to keep records of several children, thus escaping the state's scanner. They attribute the high number in the district to its distinction as a tourist hub and as a host of IT companies, inviting donations through corporate social responsibility.
 
 Meanwhile, CWC in Kancheepuram has written to the district collector to trace the whereabouts of the children in these homes.“CWC is the deciding authority on where these children need to be placed. We have got no information so far from the DCPO,“ said CWC chairperson R N Manikandan, adding that they had enquired with registered child care units close to the unlicensed homes if they had received any children from there. None had so far.
 
 When contacted, a top official in the directorate of social defence said it was the CWC's responsibility to physically verify where the children were. “Most of the children are away on vacation with their families. The few who are there have been shifted to the nearest registered homes. The CWC can go and investigate,“ said the official. The DCPO, on the other hand, said there were no children in any of these homes.
 
 Swagata Raha, programme coordinator at the Centre for Child Law at National Law School of India University, Bengaluru, said the Juvenile Justice ( Care and Protection of Children) Act 2015, mandates that children in need of care and protection have to be produced to the CWC before being shifted.
 
