The high speed dry and hot air blowing these days has led to a spurt in fire incidents. Around 80 huts were gutted at a remote village in Katihar on Saturday and 50 huts were destroyed in another fire incident at Punaichak in Patna on Thursday. Vyasji, vice-chairman of Bihar State Disaster Management Authority, shares fire safety and preventive measures with TOI’s Piyush Kumar Tripathi. Excerpts: 

 What is the reason behind spurt in fire incidents with the onset of summer?
 
 Mercury hovering around 35-40 degrees Celsius mark and high speed westerly winds are the major factors behind surge in number of fire incidents. Such incidents mostly happen in rural areas owing to thatched huts, earthen stoves and loose electric wires among other factors. Besides, the dry hay and straw left out during harvesting of crops also catch fire easily.
 
 What the district administrations are doing to prevent fire incidents in rural areas?
 
 An advisory has been issued to all district magistrates to identify fire-prone spots in the villages in coordination with the mukhiyas and other locals. This would help us in taking preventive measures.
 
 An order was issued last summer to prohibit   and religious functions between 9am and 6pm in order to prevent fire incident. Is the order still in force?
 
 Yes, the order is in force this summer as well.
 
 What other steps have been taken to prevent fire incidents this summer?
 
 We have instructed Bihar Fire Services to pre-position fire tenders near fire-prone places in order to ensure prompt action in case of any accident. Besides, more control rooms have been opened to get quick reports and ensure timely action on the same.
 
 Has Bihar Fire Services been asked to procure more fire tenders?
 
 Altogether 150 chassis have already been procured by Bihar Fire Services and their body is being fabricated at present. The new fire tenders would be pressed into service this summer.
 
 Any long term plans for preventing fire incidents
 
 We are working to prepare an action plan for preventing fire incidents in the state in future. Data regarding the same are being collected and the final report would come out soon.
 
 
