NEW DELHI: After a video of a youth forcibly kissing women in   last week caused outrage on social media, 
  , who calls himself “The Crazy Sumit” on YouTube, and his cameraman associate on Friday. However, the 21-year-old, whose real name is  , claimed that the women in the clip were crew members who knew what was happening. He said they shot such films with the 
  and translating these into earnings. 

 Both the youths were let off after questioning, but were asked to join the investigations later. The cops are waiting for the women seen in the video to record their statements. However, even if the incidents were staged, police officers said, the duo could still be booked for engaging in obscenity in public places. 
 
 Cameraman Satyajit Kadyan too has a YouTube account called DC Prank, which the two, both computer applications students, operate from Gurgaon. In the past month, Singh and Kadyan told police they earned around Rs 70,000 for this particular film.
 
 Joint commissioner Ravindra Yadav said that Singh had uploaded more than 35 clips on his account since last year and received over one lakh hits. “A team led by DCP Bhisham Singh found that the videos were intended to shock the viewers,” said Yadav.
 
 Police officers said that besides money, such pranksters also benefited from incentives like certificates given by YouTube and Google, which enhanced their chances of being hired by manufacturers of games and apps. 
 
 After police announced their intention to send a notice to Google, which owns YouTube, to join the investigation, a Google spokesperson said the company would cooperate with the cops. “YouTube’s Community Guidelines prohibit content featuring things like harassment, hate speech, shocking or disturbing content, illegal acts, and graphic violence, and we give our users tools to flag content so that we can review and remove anything that violates our policies. We also comply with valid legal requests from authorities wherever possible, consistent with our longstanding policy.” 
 
 When TOI spoke to Singh, he asserted that he would cease making such videos only if the censor board stopped him. Singh told the cops that he had been running his channel on YouTube for one and a half years now, having been inspired to do so after watching prank videos on YouTube three years ago. In October last year, Singh was given an award by YouTube for getting 1,00,000 subscribers for “The Crazy Sumit”. 
 
 In December 2016, Singh planned a video in which he would kiss random girls and run away. He contacted Kadyan and some friends, who acted as the stunned girls in the clips. Kadyan admitted that he shot two videos for Singh, one in Connaught Place and another in Gurgaon. He uploaded the kissing video on January 1, but removed it on getting a lot of flak.
 
 
