GURGAON: This is the year of the   Under-17 World Cup, the first time India will play host to a FIFA tournament. And everywhere you look, there is no lack of enthusiasm for the Beautiful Game.

 It’s an enthusiasm that’s now translating into international achievement. Recently, a bunch of city lads showed they’re more than capable of competing with the world’s best.
 
  An under-14 team from the   (Gurgaon) returned with a silver from the ‘Dubai Super Cup’, one of the world’s leading youth   tourneys. No mean feat this, considering that taking part were sides from Egypt, England, Indonesia, Jordan, Kenya, Lebanon, Malaysia, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, South  , Uganda, USA, Wales and Zimbabwe.
 
  In this glitziest of emirates, there were altogether 14 teams vying for the top prize. Enduring 90 minutes in humid heat, and against boys who were better conditioned, was a challenge. But what India may have lacked in physique and stamina, it more than made up for in heart and desire.
 
  Ahaan Mishra, 13, played defence for the young Indians. “It was a great learning experience because all the teams had different styles of playing. You couldn’t make out what they were going to do next,” confessed this student of Shiv Nadar School. “Also, their attackers were very fast, and physically very strong.”
 
  For  , 13, the one thing that stood out was the size of the pitch, bigger than what he and his team-mates were used to back home. “It was tiring, because as a midfielder you have to run a lot – and it was boiling hot in Dubai!”
 
  Both Ahaan and Aryan recognised the value of ‘all for one, one for all’. “A game can change in a matter of seconds. All the matches we played, we would be leading 2-0 or 3-0, but then we got over-confident and started playing selfish. At that point, we realised that we needed to play as a team,” shared Ahaan.
 
  “In our first few games, we weren’t gelling together, weren’t passing the ball well, because we weren’t communicating,” admitted Aryan, who goes to The Shri Ram School (Aravali). But once they figured out the team spirit, the academy lads were an altogether different proposition.
 
  On the field, the action was intense. But off it, there was plenty of bonding over football. And following the Gurgaon boys’ on-field heroics, the desert safari was well earned.
 
 
