GURUGRAM: City commuters are having a harrowing time passing through a 200-metre-long stretch of Golf Course Road, which was dug up around a couple of months ago to pave the way for upcoming Sector 54-55 Metro station.

 Though the digging has been stopped, both   and   authorities seem to have forgotten to repair the stretch, causing inconvenience to bikers and motorists. And if MCG sources are to be believed, the dusty and crater-riddled road is unlikely to be mended very soon.
 
 According to local people, some portion of Ibis hotel road, which intersects Golf Course Road near the Metro project site that is locally know as 54-55 crossing, has also been dug up, adding to traffic snarls and commuters’ owes.
 
 “It has almost been 34 days since I came to  ,” said Arvind Nolkha, a native of Mumbai who is currently working in Cyber City. “I was wondering why did they dig up so much earth and ruin the roads? It is exam time for students, who are facing trouble in reaching school.”
 
  
  A rough estimate suggests that around 40,000, including cars and bikes, pass through the crossing daily, stirring up a dust storm in the area that houses around two lakh people. “The roads passing by the under-construction Metro station are really in a bad shape. It’s so dirty that people can’t even walk through,” Nolkha added. 
 
 Satish Raghav, a local resident, said it is a nightmarish experience to pass through the crossing. “Negotiating this crater-riddled stretch is not only risky but also harmful for you and your car. A vehicle needs repairs even after passing through the crossing once,” he rued. 
 
 Sunandha, another local resident, echoed Raghav. “The stretch is posing a serious threat to us.”
 
 When contacted, MCG officials said around 31 roads in municipal areas and Huda sectors would be upgraded or reconstructed under a Rs 102-crore project launched by chief minister Mahohar Lal Khattar last month. “Currently, work is going on near Sector 14, and it will gradually cover   as well. The entire project will be completed before monsoon,” said an MCG official. “Besides, we are using water hoses in the area to beat down the dust,” he added.
 
 
