MUMBAI: In the third suspected act of sabotage since January, a seven-foot-long piece of discarded overhead equipment was placed on a track between Jasai and Dapoli stations in the wee hours of Wednesday, report George Mendonca and Manthan K Mehta. An alert motorman of a goods train that was on its way from Ratlam in MP to   spotted the mast and slammed the brakes, bringing the train to a halt 50 metres ahead of the obstacle whose one end was on one of the rails.

 The route on which the piece was found is generally used to transport freight from JNPT to other parts of the country and vice versa. The motorman and his assistants removed the mast and alerted the authorities.
 
 The   and Uran police rushed to the spot. Central Railway chief public relations officer Narendra Patil said, “A piece of   mast infringed on the tracks by an inch.”
 
 A source said, “Goods trains run at a speed of 30kmph on that section. The incident could have led to derailment. Even though the section is not used by passenger trains, the derailment could have caused a lot of inconvenience to the railways. Even importers and exporters would have been affected as cargo movement would have come to a halt for hours.”
 
 Since a series of such suspected “sabotage” attempts have come to light, the railways have counselled their train crew to remain on alert and look out for such objects. Sachin Balode, senior divisional commissioner, CR, said, “It is yet to be ascertained whether it was a deliberate act by some miscreants. An inspection of the spot revealed several pieces of OHE mast lying about the tracks. One of these was very close to the tracks and had to be removed by the train’s driver to go ahead wth the journey.”
 
 He added that dumping of OHE mast pieces and even rail track portions along the tracks has been prevalent for a long time. “We have enhanced vigilance as much as possible. We are right now concentrating on getting intelligence about the suspected sabotage by miscreants,” said Balode. 
 
 While RPF have not ruled out a sabotage attempt by miscreants with the intention of derailing trains, the other theory of scrap thieves operating along the tracks is also been probed. An FIR was registered at Panvel city police station against unidentified persons under Indian Panel Code Section 336 for endangering life or personal safety of others, and Indian Railway Act Section 150(1A) for maliciously attempting to wreck a train, said senior inspector Sunil Bajare.
 
 
