CHANDIGARH: After TOI highlighted that 14 students from economically weaker background studying at Punjab’s government’s meritorious school in Mohali had cracked  ,   have come forward to help them study further. TOI had highlighted that though the students had managed to crack the tough exam, their future was uncertain as they did not have the funds to support their higher education.

 The meritorious school was started by Punjab government to support students of Classes XI and XII who are bright but lack financial support. The schools provide free schooling and coaching. Considering that one educated person can help bring an entire family from poverty, three such Good Samaritans wrote to TOI after the report appeared on April 29, offering to help. Harpreet Randhawa, a resident of Mohali, extended support to one of the students, Shivagiajot Singh. He said, “After reading about the students my wife and I decided to sponsor Shivagiajot’s at any   he gets selected to. We feel that if he gets good education it can change not only his life but also his family’s future. We feel that education is a major equalizer and will definitely make a positive change in the fortunes of the family.”
 
 Sandeep Chhatwal, who runs the NGO Nanhi Jaan said, “We recently adopted around 100 students of Class IX to XII from government schools of Chandigarh. The government provides free education till Class VIII. We see potential in these students. IIT or a normal BA, we will help them complete their higher education. Let us see how many we can help. We will do whatever we can with available resources.” Sanjeev Checker too showed keen interest in support the students. “I will be looking forward to meeting these students and helping them find sponsorships,” he said.
 
 TOI had highlighted how these students, who come from poor backgrounds, had managed to crack the JEE Mains with help from their school. But with no further scheme to support them, these students were not sure if they would be able to take the next step of clearing higher exams and making it to a top engineering school.
 
