PATNA: The final draft of the new Bihar Agriculture Road Map (BARM) for 2017-22 is most likely to be ready for unveiling on October 2. It would work as policy guidelines for 12 government departments in implementing their respective schemes to boost the state’s economy based on growth in agriculture and allied sectors.   “We expect CM Nitish Kumar to unveil the new BARM on October 2,” an agriculture department source said and added, “The state is celebrating the centenary of Mahatma Gandhi’s Champaran Satyagrah (April 1917). The CM had also referred to it at the Kisan Samagam (farmers’ conclave) held here on June 16.”    The first BARM was for the 2008-12 period and the second for 2012-17.    The draft proposal has pointed out that the two previous BARMs resulted in increased production of cereal crops (wheat, paddy and maize) in the state, apart from sustained boost to the increase of rice mills, wheat mills, maize processing units, rural agri-business centres, fruit storage and vegetable processing, milk processing, makhana processing, honey processing, biscuit production, seven ice cream producing units and food processing units.    At the June 16 mega conclave, the government had invited over 800 farmers from across the state to give their suggestions for inclusion in the final draft. The draft proposal had also been provided to all the participating farmers and experts, besides bureaucrats from the 12 departments concerned.    Incidentally, the agriculture department has also been inviting suggestions from the concerned through online mechanism, as to what should be included in the light of the diversifying dimensions of agriculture and farming activities, amid growing demand for processed products from the produce of agriculture and allied sectors, including fishery.    “The last date for making the online submission of the suggestions by the interested persons is July 31,” said Sanjay Kumar Singh, deputy director (chemist, quality control) at the state agriculture department.    First, the committee constituted will screen and shortlist the suggestions, which would be discussed at the high-level meeting of the agriculture department. Subsequently, the revised draft would be presented at the integrated meeting of the senior officials and ministers of the departments concerned, chaired by the CM.    “This meeting might make some suggestions for inclusion in the final draft,” Singh said.