LUDHIANA: Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) honoured seven progressive farmers on the first day of its state-level kisan mela here on Friday for their outstanding contribution in agriculture, horticulture and allied activities.

 Jagtar Singh Brar, from   village, Bathinda district, was conferred with the “chief minister award” for agriculture. The 58-year-old farmer is an MA English (honours) and carries out his farm operations on 40 acres of land in addition to 35 acres on lease. In 1977, he started cultivating potato and emerged as an inspiration to other farmers. Having derived inspiration from him, Goniana block of Bathinda is today known for successful potato growers.
 
 Rajinder Singh Dhaliwal, from Aabuwal village of Ludhiana, and Vinder Singh of Chathe Nanhera village near Sunam in Sangrur, were awarded with “chief minister award” for excellence in horticulture. A progressive farmer, Dhaliwal gave up the traditional paddy-wheat cultivation and started the grass cultivation on one acre in 2006 after seeking technical guidance from the PAU department of floriculture and landscaping, PAU.
 
 He prepared weed-free grass roll from good quality variety, which was well-accepted by the nurseries of Punjab. At present, he is earning substantially by growing grass of seven different varieties on his five acres of land in addition to 12 acres on lease.
 
 Giving up the traditional paddy-wheat cycle, Vinder opted for crop diversification. In 1996, he started the cultivation of capsicum on one acre area on lease. Thereafter, he received training in hybrid seed production from the PAU’s farm advisory service centre in Sangrur. A well-read farmer with immense scientific knowledge, he started raising and selling nursery of capsicum after procuring male and female lines from PAU.
 
 The other four awardee farmers include Narinder Singh of Ajowal village of Hoshiarpur, Hardeep Singh of Kagga village in Patran tehsil of Patiala, Paramjit Singh of Pawat village in Ludhiana, Aparpal Singh Mahal of Tungwali village in Bathinda.
 
