JAIPUR:   on Wednesday dismissed the revision petition of senior   challenging the prosecution sanction and   pending against him in a   when he was a member of the   in 2004. He had challenged the prosecution sanction on the ground that the competence of the issuing authority in 2007.

 Additional advocate general Brahmanand Sandhu appearing for the government opposed the petition on the ground that the petitioner is adopting delaying tactics. The single bench of Justice Kailash Chand Sharma then dismissed his revision petition. High court had earlier also dismissed his petition.
 
 According to the FIR by ACB on May 23 2004, R.S. Srivastava has been accused of deciding a revenue case pending before him, against the plaintiff. Later on some persons came from Dholpur met the Member, Board of Revenue Srivastava, who agreed to decide the case in favour of plaintiff on bribe of Rs. 30 lacs.
 
 The second FIR was registered in respect of some other revenue cases relating to N.B.C. Unit of Birla Group situated at Jaipur in respect of a land measuring 54 acres. It was alleged that after settling huge amount as bribe or some share in the land, the accused decided the said revenue cases in favour of the concerned party.
 
 ‘Sahayak hiring: Form panel to resolve issues’: Rajasthan High Court has directed the government to constitute a three-member committee comprising the respective district collectors; chief executive officer of zilla parishad and district education officer (primary education) to examine the objections raised by the applicants for the post of gram panchayat sahayaks.
 
 The court directed that all the complaints regarding the hiring be addressed within a month after inviting objections from candidates and these should be displayed on the website.
 
 The single bench of Justice K S Ahluwalia gave these directions on a petition by Satish Kumar and others. Gram panchayat sahayaks is being hired at the local level and there were complaints of no bonus marks given to experience of candidates and no upper age limit has been followed in appointments.
 
 Junior accountant exam: The high court has asked the Rajasthan Public Service Commission (RPSC) to submit in a table format the number of questions deleted after the model answer key was released , the number of times the answer key were revised and the number of expert committees constituted to revise the answer keys in the junior accounts exam 2013 on June 1.
 
 The division bench of Chief Justice Pradeep Nandrajog and Justice SP Sharma gave the direction during the hearing of a petition by Vinod Kumar to the RPSC member Shiv Singh Rathore who was present in the court in the absence of RPSC secretary.
 
 The court had in the previous hearing had summoned the RPSC secretary. But he sought permission for absence as he was on leave on health grounds.
 
 The RPSC had formed three expert committees after several questions in the exam have been disputed. The court said what action taken against these so called experts and the member informed that some of the experts had been debarred by the RPSC for faming wrong questions.
 
