MANGALURU: Kannada Sahitya Parishat on Monday threw its weight behind the state government in strongly opposing the setting up of the   (CMB). The SC on Tuesday directed the Centre to set up the CMB within four weeks to ensure implementation of the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal's final order on the issue. The state government has already expressed its reservation on this issue on grounds that it will be detrimental to Karnataka’s interest.

 Approving a resolution raised by M D Shivakumar, farmer leader member of the Parishat from   at the 101st annual general body meeting held at Talapady bordering Kerala, Manu Baligar, president of the Parishat said no right thinking   could accept setting up of the board. “We cannot remain aloof when any decision hurts interests of the state, its language, culture and land,” Baligar said adding the Parishat will stand by the government on the issue.
 
 When member M B   demanded that presidents of district units of the Parishat adjoining   be co-opted as special invitees to the organizing committee of 83rd Akhila Bharata Kannada Sahitya Sammelan to be held in Mysuru in November, Baligar said, all 34 presidents of the district units of the Parishat are special invitees to the organizing committee. “We did not adopt any such means when the 82nd meet was held in Raichur nor will it be done in future,” he said.
 
 To a suggestion from a member on steps to popularize Kannada in school, Baligar said he will use maximum possible discretion available to him to offer highest discount possible for providing Kannada dictionaries to schools. When another member suggested that the Parishat plant trees, Baligar’s reply, “Let us leave that task to forest and horticulture departments. It is hard to fathom them do any concrete work for Kannada literature,” left the members in splits.
 
 Later briefing the media about decisions taken at the executive committee meeting held earlier, Baligar said district units will receive annual maintenance grant of Rs 1.36 lakh against Rs 1 lakh so far. Parishat has approved seven out of 14 proposals for   at taluk levels and will clear the rest shortly. Steps will be taken to issue identity cards to all registered members at the earliest, he said adding the Parishat has seen 82000 new members since he took over.
 
