Surat: Surat airport is buzzing with flight movements and many more domestic and international services are likely to be launched in the next few months. It seems, the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) is yet to learn lesson from its mistakes committed in the past by doing little to clear the Surat-Dumas Road from the stray cattle menace. 

 When the Spice Jet plane was hit by a buffalo at the Surat airport runway, the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) had started a drive to remove the illegal cowsheds from the areas surrounding the airport in 2014. 
 
 More than two years after the incident, though, the buffaloes do not wander on the airport runway, but they could be found in abundance on the main thoroughfare. 
 
 Despite several representation by the Airports Authority of India (AAI) to clear the main carriageway from the city to airport from the stray cattle, it seems the cattle nuisance removal cell is yet to take the call seriously.
 
 The passengers travelling to the airport and those visiting Dumas and Bhimpore have been facing lot of difficulties driving on the Surat-Dumas road, which is literally ruled by stray cattle.
 
 Ajay Agarwal, a textile trader had a harrowing experience when he was driving to the airport to board the evening flight to Delhi. After crossing Magdalla, his car was moving at a speed of 60 km, when he suddenly applied emergency brakes spotting a herd of stray cattle sitting in middle of the road, just few meters from the airport. The car literally skidded on the road, but he escaped unhurt. 
 
 This is not an isolated incident. Commuters driving on the main thoroughfare from Magdalla to Dumas, especially those going to the airport to board flights, have such encounters on daily basis. 
 
 It’s a common sight to find the stray cattle loitering on the main road throughout the day. Not only that, they (stray cattle) are found outside the airport premise, causing trouble for the commuters, especially during the night hours.
 
 Recently, municipal commissioner M Thennarasan had reportedly pulled up the head of market department, Dr Praful Mehta for his failure in controlling the stray cattle menace on the city roads. For few days, the department acted against the stray cattle, but the activity has been stopped. 
 
 A senior BJP councillor seeking anonymity said, “Prime Minister Narendra Modi is arriving in the city on April 17 and we have asked the civic chief to ensure that the Surat-Dumas Road is cleared off the stray cattle.”
 
 The entire 10 kilometre stretch from Piplod to Magdalla has been spruced up. The civic body has constructed wide cement concrete (CC) road from TGB hotel to facilitate the commuters, especially those going and arriving from the airport.
 
 
