NAGPUR: The tall   to provide   and   were exposed on Sunday when harried passengers detained   by one and a half hours at Nagpur.

 Chaos reigned supreme on platform number 1 when passengers complained about air-conditioners of most of the coaches not functioning and food supplied to them being of substandard quality.
 
 The 12213   had started from Bengaluru at 11.40pm on Saturday. Talking to TOI, a section of passengers said entire train was mismanaged since it started from Bengaluru.
 
 “No tea was served in the morning. The breakfast was served at 11am and lunch at 3pm. The food was of poor quality and insects were seen floating in the dal given to us. Besides, only two bottles of water was supplied,” complained Shazia Khan from Bhopal, who was travelling in B1 coach with her family from Bengaluru.
 
 Khan said the ACs of at least seven coaches were not cooling and were frequently tripping in between. “As the train has very few stoppages no formal complaint could be lodged,” she added.
 
 Another passenger RMS Reddy travelling to Delhi said, “The food was so substandard that I couldn’t see any pulses in the dal. There was no cleanliness aboard the train. I’m really disappointed as the AC travel was not worth paying Rs3,700 for a ticket,” Reddy said. 
 
 However, Nagpur Central Railway PRO PD Patil said a formal complaint about non-functional ACs came up when the train was near Sevagram.
 
 Patil admitted that AC units attached to power cars for four coaches had some snag which was repaired by the attendants aboard the train. “While the train reached Nagpur, there was no issue with ACs,” he said.
 
 Patil admitted that passengers complained about poor quality food. However, he said Central Railway had nothing to do with it as the food was supplied by IRCTC licensee from Secunderabad.
 
 “After the mess, we ensured that quality meals are supplied for dinner to the passengers. The dinner was loaded from Nagpur by another licensee from the city,” said IRCTC officials on anonymity.
 
 The train which reaches Nagpur at 4.25pm was already running one hour late. It was further detained by the passengers for 1.30 hours. Finally, after intervention of the railway administration the train left at 6.50pm.
 
 In another development, panic gripped passengers when engine of 12669 Chennai-Chhapra Ganga-Kaveri Express developed a snag at the station. The train was stranded for one hour at platform number 1 on Sunday morning.
 
 As the train was delayed, Gondwana Express had to be admitted on platform number 3. This led to last minute chaos among passengers.
 
