NEW DELHI: The Centre on Monday sought in-camera proceedings in the special tribunal examining the validity of the ban on controversial preacher Zakir Naik’s Islamic Research Foundation.

 Claiming that public disclosure of confidential information during hearings may “create disharmony and may impose a threat to national security”, the Centre told the tribunal, set up under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), to hold in-camera proceedings to see if the government was justified in immediately banning  .
 
 Justice Sangita Dhingra Seghal, who is presiding over the tribunal, observed that usually in such matters “proceedings are held in-camera and there should be no objection to it”. The tribunal is expected to pass an order at the next hearing on February 20.
 
 Additional solicitor-general Sanjay Jain and standing counsel Gaurang Kanth, appearing for the Centre, urged the tribunal to lay down the procedure to be followed during the hearings, including its location and duration.
 
 The Centre also placed before the tribunal three affidavits on behalf of   (NIA) containing documents in a sealed cover regarding material relied upon and investigation by the agency, based on which the government decided to ban IRF.
 
 The state of Maharashtra, which is supporting the Centre’s decision, said it will file an affidavit in 10 days. The tribunal told the Centre to furnish all documents to lawyers representing IRF, saying, “They are also entitled to records.”
 
 IRF had moved the tribunal against the November 17, 2016, notification of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) imposing the ban. Since the tribunal declined to hear the matter before February 6, the foundation had moved the Delhi high court challenging the ban.
 
 The Centre had said the organization was banned as there was an apprehension that youths could be “radicalized” to join terror groups. IRF had opposed the contention, saying no reasons were given for the ban.
 
 The Centre countered that the urgent step was taken under the apprehension that Indian youths could be “motivated” by alleged statements and speeches by IRF and its members, including its president,  , to join terror groups like IS, which is a cause of global concern. A verdict on IRF’s plea is awaited from the HC.
 
 
