MUMBAI: A  , arrested for sexually assaulting a preschooler over four days at a school in north Mumbai last month moved the sessions court for bail recently. Police objected to his plea, stating that he could threaten the girl and her mother, if released from prison. The matter has been kept for passing an order on September 20. 

 The three-and-half-year-old survivor was unusually quiet and appeared frightened after returning home from school on August 1. The next day, her mother met her class teacher, who claimed nothing was wrong. According to the FIR, the survivor continued to appear frightened on returning home from school that day. She also complained of a stomach ache. On August 3, her mother met her class teacher, who said the girl had been wandering out without permission. That day, the girl’s body smelt of a lotion when she returned home. The girl’s mother questioned her gently, at which she confided that she had been   in the wash-room. As she started to bleed the next day, her mother took her to a doctor and then to a hospital. A case of rape was registered on August 5. The survivor’s statement was recorded in a questionnaire format. Police also collected CCTV footage and documents for the probe from the school. 
 
 As the survivor is under-age, she was brought before the Child Welfare Commission (CWC). A child rights NGO was appointed to undertake intervention and rehabilitation. The NGO has been told to submit monthly reports about her to the CWC. 
 
 In their application objecting to the bail plea, police mentioned that three NGO members went through CCTV footage of the school in the presence of the survivor’s mother. “NGO members’ statements have been recorded. Based on observations in these statements, we are questioning all peons, female attendants and teachers at the school,” the application said. Police also expressed concern that the accused could slip out of the city or stop appearing for court hearings. “On August 6, when the accused was brought to the police station, the survivor pointed at him and said he had abused her. We are gathering evidence and his release on bail could hamper investigations,” the application added. 
 
 
