The fifth tale — although not in chronological order — in director Pannaga Bharana’s debut, Happy New Year, features   and   as protagonists   and Charvi, in a story that explores the concept of live-in relationships. Images of the duo from the film may make it seem that their story arc is tragic, considering that   is seen on a hospital bed. “Yes, there are the difficulties a couple faces when one of them is grievously ill, but it’s also about how you overcome that and not bail on the person even though there is no ‘commitment’ as society deems the relationship,” explains Pannaga.
Dhananjaya
 I play a radio jockey in the film. The role didn’t exactly require a lot of preparation because I am quite talkative and a keen radio audience. Also, having spoken to RJs during promotions for all my films has given me the right kind of homework. In fact, many years ago, when I gave up my corporate job, I was selected as an RJ for a Mysuru-based FM channel and even worked there for a week. For the film, I just tried to give it my own spin and really enjoyed playing the character, Danny. In the film, my character is in a relationship with Charvi (Sruthi), a cartoonist, and the story explores the friendship, love, respect and commitment they have for each other, even though they are not married. This is exactly what drew me to this story, as I value scripts that draw deeply on human emotions and touch you. I was teary-eyed at the end of Pannaga’s narration of our story arc and having worked with him on  , on which he was assisting his father, director  , I knew the level of passion he would put into this project. Also, since this is my second film with Sruthi, there was a certain comfort factor we shared. 
 Sruthi Hariharan
 My character, Charvi, is a budding cartoonist, who, unfortunately also suffers from a debilitating condition called cystic fibrosis. When you are a patient confined to the four walls of a hospital room, your mind tends to run wild and you tend to have weird mood swings. Yet, given her profession, she also looks at situations in her life with humour. She believes in living in the moment because she really does not know if there is going to be a tomorrow for her. That’s where her relationship with Danny gets interesting, as he tries to keep her happy as far as he can. Since she is looking at the funny side of things, it comes as a bonus that Danny is also a standup comedian, so they share a lot of laughs together. Our story is a mix of humour, love, emotion and a lot of positivity, and that’s pretty much a common theme of all the tales in Happy New Year. Each arc in the film is interwoven with the others, so the stories do not appear in chronological order, yet Pannaga has ensured that the screenplay is not confusing. Yes, there will be five different stories and audiences will be able to connect with all of them at some level. 
 
