KOLKATA: After a relatively dry September, Kolkata was stung by the monsoon's tail even as Puja festivities drew to a close. A cyclonic circulation over   left Kolkata drenched on Sunday, a day after Puja came to an end and the city observed  .

 Though Kolkata was spared of waterlogging, its twin Howrah had many pockets inundated. Several pandals on Netaji Subhash Road, in Panchanatala and Ichhapur were knee-deep in water.
 
 Even as the Puja organizers thanked the rain gods of sparing them a mess during the festive days, the heavy shower played spoilsport to Muharram processions. Two major Muharram processions -one from Kazipara to   and another from Bally to Howrah Maidan -were delayed because of heavy rain just as they were about to start. When they did start, however, the processions had to make their way through waterlogged stretches.
 
 "Usually, there are several waiting to receive the procession along the path, but today the rain dampened the spirit; the crowd was smaller than previous years," said an organizer of a Muharram procession from Kazipara.
 
 The Met office has predicted more showers on Tuesday. "The circulation had started forming some days ago. It struck Kolkata and south   on Saturday. The rain continued till early on Sunday morning. We expect more showers on Tuesday, " said  , director, regional Meteorological Centre. Another circulation now brewing over   could come to Kolkata's rescue, said weathermen. "If the circulation forms, it could suck out moisture from Gangetic Bengal and the rain could cease. If it doesn't, the showers could linger through the week," Das said.
 
 September has been relatively dry, with the city receiving very little rain during the first fortnight of the month. While the run-up to Puja remained dry, with just intermittent light showers, the circulation triggered rain on Ashtami and Dashami.The showers remained moderate, though. But the effect of the Jharkhand circulation could be more severe in the western districts of the state, felt the Met office. "We already have a circulation in south Bengal. Now, the western districts could receive heavier showers," Das said.
 
 Monsoon generally lingers in south Bengal till October 10. So, the present showers are normal monsoon rain. Circulations could continue to form and trigger rain for a fortnight more, said Met sources.
 
