CHENNAI: Even as hectic parleys are on in various political camps to choose candidates for the R K Nagar byelection scheduled for April 12, the dissident AIADMK faction led by O Panneerselvam got a short in arm with former ADGP   joining it on Monday.

 Thilakavathi told TOI that she expressed her willingness to contest the R  . “There are several other aspirants. But, I have made it clear that I am willing to contest,” Thilakavathi told TOI. The AIADMK had earlier announced that its parliamentary board headed by V K Sasikala would meet on March 15 to identify its candidate.
 
 In the DMK camp, party working president M K Stalin, who issued an invitation to PWF to back his party for the bypoll, interviewed several potential candidates on Monday. There is speculation that DMK may field Shimla Muthuchozhan, the party’s 2016 candidate or legal wing secretary R Girirajan. But, Stalin told reporters that the candidate would be finalized on Tuesday after consultations with his father and DMK president M Karunanidhi.
 
 Meanwhile, the three PWF constituents VCK, CPI and CPM, which failed to arrive at a consensus on Monday about backing DMK, are likely to continue talks and announce their decision in a day or two.
 
 “I have been mulling joining politics and was confused which party to choose. Panneerselvam has done good work in bringing Krishna water to  , helped bring back jallikattu and launched into relief work when Cyclone Vardah hit Chennai,” said Thilakavathi. “What finally made me decide was Panneerselvam’s outburst at the Jayalalithaa memorial,” she said, expressing confidence that   would be able to provide a clean government.
 
 N Mathivanan, son of one of the DMK founders, V R Nedunchezhiyan, also joined the OPS group. Both he and Thilakavathi met Panneerselvam separately and formally joined AIADMK at his residence. Thilakavathi is also an author and has several books published in her name. Mathivanan, a Jayalalithaa loyalist , said, “Panneerselvam has been a loyal solider of the party. He is personification of simplicity and I am ready to work for him,” he said. 
 
 
