PUNE: The   ( ) will introduce a   from July this year to usher in   in its functioning.

 The changes include online data input method to reduce human errors, use of technology for assessing universities and colleges, proper guidelines for assessors and also stringent penalty for institutes deliberately providing wrong information, among others.
 
 The NAAC has stopped accepting any accreditation applications from March 31 and the new process would come into effect from July when new applications would be accepted, V S Chauhan, chairman, executive committee, NAAC, said on Sunday on the sidelines of a higher education conference in the city. He said the new system would be more transparent and rely more on technology.
 
 Chauhan said, “This is for the first time that the NAAC framework is going for an overhaul. Since digitisation has overtaken the country, we have decided to move a majority of the processes online. We will also take help of a software to bring in transparency with the data that the colleges and the universities submit to NAAC. The software would capture this data and evaluate the institutions, thus, leaving no scope for human error.”
 
 NAAC will soon announce the new framework which the universities and the colleges preparing for accreditation can follow. The guidelines would be made public in about a month’s time, Chauhan said, adding that it will have stringent guidelines for defaulters.
 
 Chauhan said, “There have been cases in the past when institutions had submitted false information deliberately, but there was little scope to penalise them then. Under the new framework, stringent action could be initiated can be initiated against such institutions. We are still deliberating on the kind of action that can be taken.”
 
 Even as questions were raised over the credentials of the visiting committee, the new framework has touched upon the number of members in the committee and their qualifications. 
 
 The NAAC would have over 300 new assessors on board who are already committed with their own work to participate once or twice in assessment work in a year. Currently, the top assessors with good credentials have to spare time, which hampers their work resulting in quitting their job as assessors, Chauhan said.
 
 The number of days that the committee would spend in colleges and universities would also be brought down. Tentatively, for colleges the committee would have two-day visit and for universities, it would be a maximum of three days.
 
