KOLKATA: The   is set to amend its bill to grant an additional 100% FAR (floor area ratio) to the owners of   so they give their consent to vacate the dangerous   without much resistance.

 “The concession will now offer an additional 100% FAR (floor area ratio) to the owners if they agree to raze their insecure houses. This means, if the owner of an unsafe building pulls down his three-storey  , he will be allowed to construct a six-storey structure in its place,“ a government official said.
 
 Besides the incentives to the owners, the   (Amendment) Bill 2017, to be tabled in the assembly today , will take care of the tenants' interest by granting maximum floor area benefits to accommodate the “erstwhile occupiers“ (tenants) to build additional floors; these extra storeys might be required to recover the construction expense after relaxation of the applicable building rules, the bill said. The law also aims to circumvent the problem of disagreement among multiple owners over redevelopment by appointing a third party; under the KMC “transparent“ scheme, the third party will carry out the redevelopment and ensure suitable compensation for the owners and timely rehabilitation of all the occupiers, including the tenants.
 
 This is a departure from the current civic practice of declaring the entire building or part of it “condemned“ and ordering its demolition. “The pulling down of a dangerous building under the relevant provisions of Kolkata Municipal Act, 1980, causes hardship to people staying there. It may not be conducive to public in terest in urban areas, which face the acute problem of shortage of space. The amendment to the civic body bill will offer an opportunity to the owners to reconstruct their dilapidated buildings, which will in turn, protect the lives and property of both the proprietors and tenants,“ a government official said. The KMC will reportedly prioritize the sanctioning of the building plan with additional floors and floor areas.
 
 The official added, “The amended law will help rebuild old, dilapidated houses without the KMC incurring any cost. It will also ensure employment in the real estate sector.“
 
