Are you a pro at ticking off your partner? Well, bite the bullet and apologise. Here’s how... 

 Saying   can be a task. Sometimes, it’s the ego and sometimes, it is genuinely not your fault. In all that, we forget that what matters is resolving the issue and 
 moving on. Especially, when it involves somebody as important as your girlfriend or wife! Very often we simply shirk the issues and try to behave as if nothing has happened and go on with our lives. However, small unresolved issues can keep building up and threaten the foundation of your relationship someday, if they aren’t addressed immediately. Trust us, saying sorry is not a big deal once you prioritise your needs. Think about it — is holding on to your skewed sense of integrity more important than saving an important relationship? So, here goes...
 
 
 Even if it is not your fault. Our judgements get clouded during a heated argument, even when things seem like the other person’s fault. The point is to steer clear of the blame game. It probably was her fault, but what’s the point of dragging the matter by pointing it out to her? You will get your chance to do that when tempers are not flying all around. And that will only happen if you apologise. Don’t be grumpy while saying sorry. Make sure not to give the impression that you are doing her a favour by apologising. Sincerity is the key.
 
 
 You see, girls love to be pampered. All of them, without exception. The best way to get to them is hitting that soft spot. So, take a pen and paper, and write something special for her. It can be a poem, or a list of seemingly small things she did for you that you loved. If you are not a poet, no problem. Remember, in Sex and the City, how Mr Big made   tear up by re-typing love letters of Byron, Keats, Voltaire and mailing them to her? What matters is the effort you put in, not the result. Plus, handwritten notes have an unexplainable quality of making things seem okay, even when they are not.
 
 
 This one is a little tricky, but when done right, it’s the best and easiest way. Tickle them, poke them, surprise them with a hug and go on begging for their forgiveness. Make sure she has no way to keep you out of her thoughts. If she is not physically present, bombard them through messages and social media. Keep bombarding them with little love notes, smileys and words that hold special meaning for you two. If you recall how the entire world went awww over Jodi Duncan’s tweet about how her boyfriend apologised to her after coming home drunk. He left her a message — Are you angry at me? — on every social media platform. So, you have your relationship adviser right here. Not only will she be happy to give in, if you are lucky, you might make it to the news!
 
 
 Tilt your head, scrunch up your brows and pull a  . It’s an universally accepted fact that   does the best puppy eyes ever. Why else do you think he has been able to hold on to  , even while all the cutest and hottest of Hollywood couples are heading towards splitsville? Those puppy eyes are the reason Blake lovingly said at an awards event, “You can’t have him, he’s mine!” The trick is to keep staring at them with those cute sheepish expression continuously. 
 
 
 
 This one will need a little more effort than just saying sorry. It entails actually getting up from the front of the TV and pulling your socks up. Cook her something. Has she been asking you to fix the hinges of the bathroom door for some time now? Get them done. Says Darshana Lodh, a housewife, who just celebrated her tenth anniversary, 
 “I remember once, when I was angry, my husband 
 cooked me my favourite dish. It was just noodles with veggies, but the fact that he thought of appeasing me with that, had me floored.” Told ya. 
 
 
 
 Men, in our country, are raised to become head of the family or workplace. Saying sorry means accepting mistakes, which can be a threat to their ego. However, sorry can be expressed playfully and tactfully without words. Considering that women are sensitive beings, a simple hug, warm touch, making her a cup of coffee or simply helping around the house is enough to pacify her. Gifting her favourite flowers or handwritten notes or text messages can also make her day. Nothing works like humour though, so you can attempt to cut through the tension by saying, ‘You are the boss!’” 
 
 
 
