HYDERABAD: Come 2019, Hyderabad will see a fresh stock of close to 8 million square feet (sft) of   IT space dotting its landscape thanks to the fast-paced construction activity that's unfolding in the city's commercial real estate sector.

 Over half a dozen big-ticket realty houses ­ both from Hyderabad and outside ­ are currently developing 'A' grade IT parks buildings along the city's western corridor. The hotspots: Hi-Tec City ,  , Gachibowli and Nanakramguda.
 Among them is  , which is coming up with 7.2 lakh sft IT Park in HiTec City . “There is a tremendous demand for quality commercial space right now. Apart from existing MNCs that are eyeing expansion locally , a lot of new players are also scouting the market for good offices,“ said Kishore Duggirala, director of the group that already has three such completed projects totalling nearly 1 million sft in Hyderabad.
 
 Another city-bred firm set to increase this supply is Kapil Group with 5.7 lakh sft in Nanakramguda. Kapil Kavuri Hub is expected to be ready by the end of 2019's first quarter.“The old office buildings were ridden with issues of power, water etc. New corporates do not want to be bogged down by such concerns and are constantly looking out for high-end spaces. That's driving the demand,“ said Kaustubh Chakraborty, director marketing (for commercial sales and leasing), Kapil Group.
 
 He is also hopeful of an upward revision in leasing rates.“By the time we are ready , the rates are certain to be at least Rs 60-Rs 65 per sft, if not more,“ he said. At present it hovers in the `45 to `55 per sft range with some places already attracting `57-60.
 
 P Sreenivas Reddy , executive director of Rajapusha Properties Pvt Ltd, predicts the same. His firm is now develo ping 5 lakh sft IT space ­ Rajapusha Summit ­ in Financial District. “We have already started getting enquiries about the venture. Because ours started relatively early , we hope to be ready by early 2018,“ he said.
 
 Decoding this rush in development, city realtors explain how Hyderabad is faced with a massive crunch, which is fuelling demand. “The vacancy level of grade ` A' office space in the Hi-Tec City-Gachibowli belt is a meagre 3-4%. In 2016, between January and December, Hyderabad witnessed maximum office space leasing of about 6.5 million sft -highest in India only after Bengaluru,“ said Sandip Patnaik, head of capital markets (South India), Jones Lang LaSalle, forecasting an average yearly leasing of 6.5 to 7 million sft in Hyderabad over the next five years.
 
 Developers from other states are equally optimistic and attribute this mood, among other factors, to a “proactive government“. “It has adapted a very progressive approach and restarted the engine for Hyderabad. Over time, the market here is sure to catch with Bengaluru,“ said Arshdeep Sethi, MD,  .
 
