JAISALMER: The ruins of Paliwal villages, including picturesque   and Khaba, in Jaisalmer are not due to   but are results of an   

 Paliwal villages, scattered around here, have been lying deserted for years and it is believed that the Paliwals of Kuldhara left overnight due to the atrocities of Diwan Jalim Singh. 
 
 Stories of Singh, who forcibly wanted to marry a Paliwal girl, have been drawing thousands of tourists to these ruins for years.
 
 But now a new study by geologists of the Mohanlal Sukhadia University, Udaipur, have concluded that the Paliwal villages were located on active faults in the Jaisalmer region and were severely affected due to earthquake. The study, conducted by Professor Harsh Bhu, Professor (Retd) A B Roy and research scholars working on Neotectonics, has been recently published in a Bangalore-based fortnightly research journal.
 
 These houses spread over 84 villages belonged to the Paliwal community who lived there since late 13th century. Once a prosperous place, all the villages are now in ruins. 
 
 According to the study, “It is difficult to attribute such massive destruction to social compulsions leading to abandonment of these villages. What struck us most was the picture of destruction in all these ‘roofless’ houses looked similar to the devastation recorded in the remains of Harappan cities like Mohenjo-Daro, Dholavira and Lothal.”
 
 “Looking into the nature of collapse-related flattening features, we are of the firm opinion that the region dotted with houses of Paliwal community have had experienced strong earthquakes of unknown intensity. The nature of destruction observed in the houses is comparable in scale and complexity to the devastation that is witnessed in recent earthquake affected areas like Latur and Bhuj. Though not recorded by any seismograph, it is however possible to conclude that earthquakes that affected the Jaisalmer area might not have been of a very severe intensity to cause damage witnessed in the Paliwal houses,” says Bhu.
 
 Basing their assumption on recent tectonic activity and ground movements along several major faults in the region, Bhu says, “A point that needs clarification is about evacuation is that there is no documented evidence that supports the theory of massive evacuation of the Paliwal community from the region. There are suggestions that the Paliwals emigrated through a tunnel unnoticed by anyone. This sounds quite absurd. We may presume looking into the destruction caused by the collapsed walls with scattered dressed stones along with evidences of fallen joists, lintels and pillars in all the houses that the devastation, both of life and property, might have been quite substantial, and virtually total.” 
 
 “The survivors could have been only a few, who could have been in badly injured state. We can very well presume that only a very few could have escaped the fatality. Since the event of destruction, nobody lived in these villages anymore presumably because of the stories of mysterious deaths. Another point worth considering is that even today, the Paliwal community does not celebrate the auspicious event of ‘Rakshabandhan’, as it falls on the day when the calamity occurred. Instead they commemorate the tragic event as a Black Day for them,” he adds. 
 
 
 
