BHOPAL: A mother’s fight for justice has yet again opened the cold case file of her son’s  . A year and four months after engineering student Aditya Maurya was run over and killed on Ayodhya Bypass, police have decided to conduct   on two suspects.

 This is a big leap in a case where there were no suspects to begin with and the file was all but closed as an accidental death. TOI had reported in September 2016 how Aditya’s mother, Kismat Maurya, turned detective and relentlessly pursued the case, leading to the transfer of two police officers for negligence and forcing the top brass to take cognisance of the ‘evidence’ she had collected. After retrieving deleted   footage from the police HQ, she isolated a grainy picture of the driver, identified the number plate, tracked the car down to a field in Raisen, dug up two eyewitnesses and turned around to ask the cops: “If I could find out so much as a homemaker, why can’t you find my son’s killer?”
 
 On Friday, police confirmed to TOI that two suspects would undergo a narco test. Additional SP Hitesh Choudhary said that a team went to New Delhi last week for the formalities and the truth test will be carried out there soon. Bhopal doesn’t have any such facility. The ASP would not identify the suspects but sources say one of them is the driver who came forward to say he was behind the wheels during the accident. 
 
 Kismat is still keeping her fingers crossed. “Police have initiated some steps based on facts I presented. But I am still waiting for the day those responsible for my son’s death are put behind bars,” she said. Sources say police asked Kismat what questions she would like to ask the suspects and included them in the questionnaire. 
 
 Nineteen-year-old Aditya, a first-year engineering student, was found dead on the roadside in Ayodhya Nagar area on October 22, 2015. Police were prepared to close the file as an accident (unknown vehicle, no witnesses) but Kismat, who lives in Sagar, wasn’t convinced. She came down with her husband, visited the accident site and realized that the car would have had to veer at least five feet off the road to hit Aditya, who was walking with a friend. 
 
 The anguished mother went to police, realized they weren’t interested in the case, and started a parallel investigation, which went far ahead of the cops. The facts and evidence she collected stunned senior officers and the case was transferred from Ayodhya Nagar to Bilkheria police station and two cops were transferred. “The CCTV video clip showing the car that hit my son went missing twice — from Ayodhya Nagar police station and then the police control room. We got the deleted clip recovered,” she said. Kismat homeschooled herself in video editing and enhancement and used a software to get a picture of the driver and the number plates.
 
 Once she tracked down the car and the photos ended up in court, the owner presented his driver before police as accused. Kismat pointed out that he looks very different from the man caught on CCTV. Asked about the damaged front bumper, the vehicle owner told police that it hit a pole, but mechanical investigation confirmed that it had hit either a human or cattle. Later, an eyewitness turned up with a statement that suggested it may have been murder.
 
 “The statement has been recorded and it suggests the car deliberately hit my son from behind. Before the accident, some youths in a car were heard talking in a dhaba to finish off my son. My son was walking at least five feet away from the road when the car hit him,” Kismat said, adding that she was waiting eagerly for the result of the narco test.
 
