RAJGIR:   Mukherjee on Sunday expressed concern over the incidents of violence all over the world and said universities and academic institutions should create an atmosphere which is devoid of prejudice for intellectual pursuit. 

 Addressing the valedictory session of the   at Rajgir, he said, “There is not a single day without the news of violence from any corner of the globe. Individuals or groups who kill people or cause untold sufferings on their fellow brethren in the name of caste, religion, language, creed and colour are enemies of humanity.”
 
 The President said the killing of innocent people at a nightclub in Paris and the recent murder of a foreigner in Goa were “mental aberrations and an expression of a twisted and a perverted mindset” and nations must think together about how to deal with the menace of violence. He said the answer lies in the teachings of Lord Buddha and Mahatma Gandhi, who preached non-violence. He asked people to “follow the path of Mahatma Gandhi who was a practising Buddhist”. 
 
 Referring to the ancient learning centres in Nalanda, Taxila and Vikramshila which attracted great minds from all over the world, he said, “The essence of these universities was open mind and free discussions. The acharyas and upadhyays encouraged students to pose questions before a proposition was to be accepted and followed by them.” 
 
 He said the modern education system was not sufficient to meet the challenges.
 
 Speaking on the occasion,   said Lord Buddha had visited Rajgir before and after seeking enlightenment. “There has been conflict all over the world and that is why I had suggested a global conflict resolution centre to be built alongside  . We are still open to the idea and Bihar government is ready to provide land required for the purpose.”
 
 Nitish said preparations were on for a grand celebration to mark the centenary of Champaran Satyagraha on April 10 and requested President Mukherjee to grace the occasion. 
 
 Governor Ram Nath Kovind said Lord Buddha preached peace and non-violence and Buddhism is an antidote to violence and, hence, relevant in 21st century.
 
 The three-day conference was inaugurated by Buddhist spiritual leader the Dalai Lama and Union minister of state for tourism and culture Dr Mahesh Sharma on March 17. Over 300 monks, Buddhist scholars, environmentalists and others from across 35 countries participated in the conference.
 
