For twenty-eight years, physician-turned-politician 
  79, played the caste card and rode piggyback on the   and the DMK. In the 2016 assembly election, however, he took a gamble, struck out on his own, and drew a blank. In an interview to TOI, Dr Ramadoss, who founded   in 1989, says never again would he strike an alliance with the Dravidian giants. And he is candid about his ambition to see his son   as the  . Excerpts:

 
 
 
 I am satisfied and happy about what it has done so far. When PMK was founded on July 16, 1989, five lakh people assembled on the Marina, after a 10-hour long rally. By the time I spoke, it was 3am. We chose a backward caste (Prof Dheeran) as the party president, a dalit (Dalit Ezhilmalai) as its general secretary and a minority (Kunnangudi Hanifa — an auto driver) as the treasurer. Right from the beginning, we wanted to take along with us people from the working class and the socially and economically weaker sections. Prior to launching the party, we toured the state for more than three months and held meetings with people from all walks of life, castes and communities on the plan to launch a party. You cannot say the same thing for other parties. The DMK was founded by a 12-member team and the AIADMK came into being after MGR was expelled from the DMK. While the Congress has a long history, other parties in the state mushroomed overnight.
 
 There is a feeling among partymen that we are unable to become the ruling party here in Tamil Nadu. Now, that opportunity has come. There is a huge political vacuum now in Tamil Nadu. The AIADMK is over. It is finished. The DMK too is about to end. Despite having 89 members in the TN assembly, their performance is not significant and Stalin is yet to prove his mettle as a leader. He does not have skills to participate in long debates over issues concerning the state. Dr Anbumani can. He completed a course in London School of Economics and has toured several countries. Though we have not been a ruling party, am fully satisfied with what we have achieved.
 
 There is a political vacuum. The AIADMK’s two-leaves symbol is not with either of the factions. The end for the DMK too is nearing. We will be the one to finish off the DMK. Next elections, as and when it is held, we will emerge victorious because of the young and dynamic, Dr Anbumani. He will be Tamil Nadu’s next chief minister.
 
 
 
 Did Kejriwal form his party five years back to come to power? In just six months, he knocked out both the BJP and the Congress. In Puducherry, N Rangasamy took just two months to come to power. In West Bengal, Mamata dislodged the CPM, which ruled the state for 34 years and she has retained power. If people decide, there has to be a change, it will happen. In Salem, we announced Anbumani as the chief minister candidate and people, who attended his meetings, were awed by him. But, media blanked him out. It was because of media that we missed out.
 
 
 
 
 No. It has never been like that. From the beginning, we had a broad-based approach and we always wanted social justice for all. If today, several sections of people have come up due to opportunities in education and employment, it is because of us. We uplifted all of them.
 
 To come to power you need state-wide support base...
 
 Not just now, but even when we launched our party, we established our base in all 234 assembly segments. Recently, even though we went with the BJP in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, it was not an alliance. It was a seat adjustment. We are the only party that is very active today in Tamil Nadu. We are for state autonomy. Growth and development is our strategy and focus.
 
 
 
 
 We are open to anyone joining us — other than the AIADMK and the DMK. As long as there are clouds, white or dark, in the sky, as long as there is water in the sea and as long as there is land on earth, we will not and will never align with both these parties. No one should even ask this question again. The Communists are welcome because they at least have some policies and principles.
 
 
 
 He is not a force. He has been talking about entering politics for the last 20 years, especially closer to release of his films. It is more like a punch dialogue. After the film’s release, he will not talk about it until the next one is ready for release. It will be good, if he actually enters politics. At least then he will get exposed and people will get to know the truth. What principles and policies does he have to enter politics? One cannot compare Rajinikanth with MGR. That period was different and MGR had a long association with the Dravidian parties. Rajinikanth does not have a single quality to start a party. Maybe some of his fans would vote for him. Not others. The problem of Tamil Nadu has been that from Annadurai to Karunanidhi, MGR and Jayalalithaa, all of them were from cinema.
 
 
 
 
 As already mentioned, all parties who accept Dr Anbumani as the chief ministerial candidate and are willing to come under our leadership are welcome. We look at both the BJP and the Congress on the same level. As in the case of the AIADMK and the DMK, we will also not align with the BJP or the Congress for the assembly election. We believe in the strength of our party. We want the state to come out of the cinema culture. We believe now they have come out of it. We are the alternative. There is a political vacuum and we have a bright future. The people of the state are fed up with voting for the AIADMK and the DMK alternatively. These two parties are responsible for destroying Tamil Nadu.
 
 
 
 
 As the PMK founder, I was clear from the beginning that I will not become its president. When we are in power, there will be opportunities to do mistakes. If am partner in power, I cannot question. So founder is a role to safeguard what was founded. The party has office bearers, working committee and a general body — all are properly constituted and run. They have the fear that I will question them, if any wrong is committed.
 
 
 
 
 He is at present heading our youth wing. The PMK general body is powerful in our party. If a situation arises, they can pass a resolution and if he too agrees, only then it can happen. But, he is not interested. I have not discussed this, but a few in the party did. He has said ‘no’.
 
 
