The dark spaces between street lights cast amorphous shadows along the sides. They could be sleeping dogs, rubble, or garbage bags. I avoid them gingerly as I turn the corner into a narrow lane strung overhead with fairy lights for the next many feet. There’s no one there but a man asleep on the carpet that covers a makeshift stage which is still lit up. It’s two nights after Eid, though we spelt it Id when I was younger. A motorbike roars around the corner I just turned, three young helmetless men seated on it talking loudly zoom past me, the guy behind checking his mobile phone. A dog’s head appears from under the stage, barks timidly at the departing roar and retreats. Two nights ago, this street was bustling well past midnight, the aroma of roasting spiced meats, biryani assailing my nose, brightly-lit shops selling bright sparkling clothes and doodahs, laughter, loud conversations. Three nights ago the moon had been sighted and the troubles of the world faded for a while.

 I turn another corner and the lane changes distinctly — a lot more silent but for the passing rickshaw’s wooden wheels’ rhythmic clacking, amplified by the walls of less congested houses, architectural motifs defining their owners. It’s a bit cleaner, seems more spacious. A recently painted though ancient temple to the dark goddess springs up between two houses, enclosed by iron railings, shut for the night. A tawny striped cat jumps off the railing at my passing and darts into the dark as an insomniac crow berates it. I enter my home after my postprandial walk, just behind the half-century old Annapurna Mistanna Bhandar. I remind myself to have a breakfast tomorrow of hot kochuri and sweet sooji halwa there.
 
 
 Central Calcutta is that region between   in the north, AJC Bose Road in the south and east and along   in the west. I could be wrong, but the 700016 pin code is probably the largest section of this region and has Park Street as its best known thoroughfare. I was born and grew up in Calcutta 16, and after living in the south for many years, I am now back to living here, in what falls in the   police station precincts.
 Most of central Calcutta was built by the British and the area I live in is called Lordpara. History recounts that in 1758, the area was used to relocate the population of Gobindapur village, which is where Fort William now stands. Unfortunately the tal, Palmyra trees it was named after are no longer visible. My lane was known as European Asylum Lane after an institution there that housed, surprisingly, destitute Europeans. The local post office still sports an Asylum Lane PO signboard. There is a shabbiness that prevails, but a gracious ambience is quite evident, even as nondescript modern matchbox apartments are built to replace the old houses that were in too much of a state of disrepair to be maintained any more. This maze of narrow lanes, blind turns, cul-de-sacs insulate me from the world outside. It has a life that minds its own business. The basic necessities are easily available and an easy walk brings me to some of the prime old markets of the city — Entally, Janbazar, Chandni Chowk, New Market. The bakery, a short walk away from me, sells steaming hot white bread after 7 every evening. Sometimes, a half-pao of that with a dollop of frozen butter gently melting in its centre, coupled with kheeri kababs from the shop opposite, is a delicious dinner, rounded off with a soft, syrupy-sweet rajbhog from Annapurna. Pork sausages, handmade while I wait in Entally Market, and the goodness of the freshest vegetables I have ever seen because of its proximity to   station bringing steady supply from the suburban market gardens. Those who know say some of the best fish to cook is got at Taltala bazar. All at the most a 15-minute stroll away.
 
 
 The area is quietly confident in its plurality. Many more Anglo-Indians co-existed here once, as did Bengali Christians. Nearby churches, St James’, St Teresa of Avila’s, the Methodist Church are very nearly as old as the area itself. The Khanqah Masjid, an old Sufi prayer house, so very different from the other mosques, has a mystical charm. The   has been celebrated for more than 80 years. The oldest public library of Calcutta is in Taltala since 1882, though I have yet to read ‘Taltala Darpan’, the area’s very own literary journal. They provide an interesting counterpoint to the area’s neighbouring educational institutions, the Aliah Madrasah, Muslim Institute, Calcutta Boys’ School, St James’ and Pratt Memorial Schools, Rani Rashmoni High School, among others.
 Yet, civic infrastructure is minimal, almost neglected, enough done just to keep things rolling, as if held in the trap of promises to be fulfilled when votes come in again. Taltala is the manifestation of a Calcutta that could have been, and will not die. 
 
 Leonard Cohen’s 2012 album, Old Ideas, was a nice accessory to these observations.
 
 — PATRICK SL GHOSE
 
