BHOPAL: With Congress and   announcing their candidates for Atfer  , the stage is set for yet another face-off between Thakurs and Brahmins, the two most  .

 This is not new to the constituency, which has an equal and predominant Brahmin and Thakur vote bank. “Practically every election in Ater in Bhind district is a Brahmin versus Thakur contest,” said a senior state Congress leader. “While one party will field a Brahmin, the community with more than 45,000 votes in the seat, the other party will allot the ticket to a Thakur because it also has as large vote bank.”
 
 For April 9 bypolls, Congress has fielded Hemant Katare, son of former leader of opposition Satyadev Katare, and BJP has finalised the name of former MLA Arvind Bhadoria. While Katare is a Brahmin, Bhadoria is a Thakur. While this caste-based election has been on expected lines, what has raised the eyebrows is the Congress’ allegation that the ruling BJP has been posting administrative and police officials of Thakur community in the assembly segment over the past six months.
 
 Speaking to TOI, state Congress spokesman Pankaj Chaturvedi said, “For the Congress, all castes and communities are the same, but the ruling BJP is trying to make it a caste-based contest. Right since the demise of Satyadev Katare the BJP government has been calculatingly shifting officials of the Thakur community to key posts in the district and the assembly segment. This only shows the BJP’s petty mind-set.”
 
 A section of the Congress leaders has released a list of government officials including SP and SDOP while questioning their postings in Bhind and Ater. State Congress legal cell chief JP Dhanopia said, “We are waiting for the candidates to file their nomination papers. We will then file an application with the Election Commission (EC) to change and remove officers belonging to the BJP candidate’s caste.”
 
 Congress alleged that SDM Uday Singh Sikharwar was posted as superintendent, land records, in the district during the 2013 assembly elections. He was also there when the Lok Sabha polls were held in 2014. After completion of three years and much pressure from legislators who raised questions on him in the state assembly, Shikharwar was transferred. “But he is back as the SDM in Bhind, transferred soon after the death of Katare and it’s time for the bypolls,” said Chaturvedi. “Does Shikharwar have special talent to conduct polls in Ater?” he wondered.
 
 The list of Thakur officials prepared by the Congress includes Anil Singh Kushwah (SP Bhind), Indraveer Singh Bhadoria (SDOP Ater), Virendra Singh Tomar (CSP Bhind), Shailendra Singh Kushwah (TI City Kotwali), Narendra Singh (TI Ater), Surendra Singh Shikarwar (TI Umri), Vijay Singh Tomar (TI Fup) and at least a dozen others. “From naib tehsildar to police superintendent, its only Thakurs,” alleged the Congress.
 
