NAGPUR: Residents of west Nagpur have approached deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Ravindrasinh Pardeshi about an electronic signboard installed by the forest department just next to a traffic signal at Japanese Garden Square. According to them, the signboard is distraction to all moving traffic, especially during evening.

 To promote environment-related activities, the forest department has installed a display board on its premises near Japanese Garden. The signboard was put up just next to a traffic signal.
 
 A memorandum was signed by the residents of west Nagpur, especially those from  ,  , CPWD quarters, Anant Nagar, Jafar Nagar and Gittikhadan, and submitted to the offices of deputy commissioner of police (traffic) and principal chief conservator of forest. It pointed out that though the LED display board is informative, it is brightly illuminated which distracts motorists.
 
 Sandeep Agrawal, one of the complainants, said it is visible to the traffic coming from at least three sides of the square. Due to its high brightness, it is very distracting to all moving traffic, he said. For the same reason, it is not possible to read anything or absorb the information that the forest department wishes to convey to the citizens, said Dilip Bachar, another motorist and a resident of Raj Nagar.
 
 Team TOI visited the spot and found that the traffic stops for a very short while at this intersection. It is a critical crossing, as there is always congestion in the evening hours due to traffic coming from all four directions like west (Ramgiri, Hingna, Futala, WCL HQs), south (High Court, WHC Road, Ravi Bhavan, Dharampeth), east (income tax office, excise office, Sadar, railway station etc) and north (Raj Bhavan, Centre Point School, Koradi etc). Barring traffic from north direction, this display board distracts traffic from all the three sides.
 
 In case the drivers are distracted by the “blinding” lights and the rapidly changing graphics, there is every chance of disruption in the natural flow of traffic and also accidents in the extreme situation.
 
 “In our opinion, this electronic glow signboard should be placed elsewhere where the citizens have ample time to read it at leisure and absorb the contents without causing any traffic disruption, distraction or inconvenience,” the memorandum stated.
 
 Pardeshi assured to look into the matter. Divisional forest officer   said if there is any complaint related to the display board, they will definitely look into it.
 
 
