JAPUR: In blatant violation of   order, the   has once again started an illegal construction on its premises.

 The area has been declared a ‘no construction zone’ by the high court, and the matter is pending before the Supreme Court.
 
 The club administration is not only allegedly constructing an office building in violation of the court order, it’s doing so without the permission of   (JDA).
 
 “The golf course comes under the jurisdiction of JDA. However, we are not aware that the club administration is carrying out construction activity on its premises. We will look into this matter,” said JDA deputy commissioner Birbal Singh.
 
 The club has already constructed a foundation for the building as well as a pavement. Earlier, following a public interest petition, the high court had banned all construction in the Central Park, including the golf course.
 
 Vimal Chaudhary, the counsel for petitioner, said, “The matter is sub-judice in Supreme Court. The high court has also directed to maintain status quo on April 3, 2008, and construction has been banned.”
 
 Even if a construction is required, the proposal has to be submitted to the JDA and approved by it. An attempt was made a few months ago by the club, but it was immediately thwarted by the development agency.
 
 Yogesh Yadav, president of the Central Park Bachao Sangharsh Samiti, said, “It’s contempt of court. This property belongs to the government. There’s no MoU between the state government and Rambagh Golf Club. The influential club administration is utilising public land for their needs.”
 
 “After seeing the construction, I have informed the Jaipur Development Commissioner (JDC) and JDA secretary,” he said.
 
 It is alleged that the club is illegally utilizing 256 bigha of public land. The entire government land is 322 bigha. Out of this, the Central Park has been developed on 66 bigha. Most of the land is under the possession of the club and the government has no control over it.
 
 It is also alleged that construction on this government land would disturb the habitat of many wild birds, peacocks, owls, vultures and parrots that have made this their nesting place for many years.
 
 However, Rambagh Golf Club secretary Shree Sancheti said, “We are not constructing anything on our premises. The area has just been levelled.”
 
