THANE: Residents of Gladys Alvares Road area recently met with the municipal commissioner   and presented a proposal for the first ever   (ALM) in the city. The concept of   will work as a bridge between the residents and the municipal corporation in developing the locality. 

 Although Mumbai has a number of ALMs looking into the crucial issues of their specific locality and helps resolve them with the help of the corporation there are no such bodies in Thane yet.
 
 The residents of prominent societies along the   took their first step towards an inclusive governance by setting up their association titled RAGA (Residents’Association for Gladys Alwares Marg) to seek remedies for civic issues that come under their ward number four. Their ward includes areas surrounding Happy Valley, Hiranandani Meadows, Ashar Residency and Nalpada.
 
 Speaking about their initiative, TN Raghunatha, secretary of Eden Woods CHS and one of the members of RAGA, said, “An ideal or smart city functions well only if citizens work in tandem with the municipal authorities. There are several issues in each area that the top authorities may not be aware of. Similarly, there could be many schemes implemented by the corporation that citizens are oblivious too. ALMs work as a bridge between the two bodies and aim at developing their locality.”
 
 “We have a number of issues including the hawking menace, accident prone stretches and many more in our area. We have been discussing the working of the ALMs in Mumbai a year ago and realised that we, too, need something like that. We formed a proposal and presented it to the commissioner on Monday and were glad to get a positive response.”
 
 While the municipal commissioner was thrilled with the proposal he has asked the association to meet him with a detailed proposal in the first week of April.
 
 “I have always encouraged citizens’ participation in any civic initiative and I am glad to see such initiatives coming up. Setting up of such groups will not only help us understand the unknown issues in different pockets, but also make remedying these issues a smoother and quicker process. Once this ALM is set up, hopefully many other citizens’ groups will follow suit. As we are in the midst of the budget panning, I have asked the members of RAGA to meet me with a detailed proposal next week,” said civic chief Sanjeev Jaiswal.
 
 
