KOLKATA: Almost a year ago, death was looming over 42-year-old Rupayan Roy. Today, he stares back defiantly, thanks to a heart transplant that breathed life back into the LIC officer from Kolkata. Roy underwent the surgery on August 1 last year in Chennai.

 “I am alive because of a complete stranger from a faraway city. What can I say about the noble step the family took to secure someone else’s life,” Roy told TOI.
 
 The problem started about two-and-half years ago when the Tangra resident started losing weight and appetite. He had bouts of cough accompanied by streaks of blood in the sputum and breathlessness. A test at Desun Hospital showed all four chambers of his heart were dilated. Roy flew to Delhi for a second opinion. He was told he needed a transplant.
 
 “I was numbed, wondering where the   will come from. I was so upset that for next few days, I did not share my problem with anyone,” Roy said. Realising that time was running out, he gathered the courage and took his family into confidence. He flew to Chennai on July 2 last year after consulting Dr   of the cardiothoracic and vascular surgery department at SSKM Hospital.
 
 Roy stayed close to Fortis Mallar in Chennai so that he could rush to it as soon as he got an alert on the availability of the organ. He finally underwent the procedure under Dr Ravi Kumar’s team. “I wish the organ donation pace in West Bengal picks up and we have such transplant facilities available in the city,” Roy said.
 
 As Roy feels blessed for his second shot at life, far away in Mumbai, there is a twist to this ‘saans bahu’ story. When Anuska Amit Rane (31) was detected with renal failure, it was her mother-in-law   (59) who parted with a kidney to save her. Anuska underwent the kidney transplant surgery in January this year at   (KDAH) under Dr Sharad Sheth and his team.
 
 “Most of the transplant surgeries we do here is live donation. But cadaver donation is the ultimate solution considering the massive number of patients who needs organ transplant. All of us need to work towards pushing the momentum of cadaver organ donation forward,” said Dr Sharad Sheth, consultant and nephrology head at KDAH.
 
 
