KOLKATA: Puja revellers hit the streets in droves on a rain-hit Ekadashi on Sunday alongside thousands of mourners taking part in Muharram processions in the city. Although several major roads in the city were closed to traffic since 8am to make way for the mourners, Puja revellers could still travel from one part of the city to another without much trouble, as not a single community Puja idol was immersed on Sunday.

 "I had gone to see the pandal at   on Sapta mi but it was so crowded that I came back without standing in the queue," said Behala resident Joyita Chakraborty . "On Ekadashi, however, we went to the pandal, queued up for 15 minutes and watched the pandal and idol," she said. Apart from Sree Bhumi, big-ticket Pujas like the ones at Deshapriya Park, Ajeya Sanhati and Santosh Mitra Square, too, received huge footfall from Sunday evening, shortly after the rain ceased.
 
 Calcutta high court had said community Puja committees who want to immerse their idols on Muharram can seek police permission to do so. Although cops were at the standby at all 17 immersion ghats, only a handful of household idols were immersed. "We kept up with our household tradition of immersing the idol on Ekadashi evening. On other years, we experience huge rush during this time.Today , the ghat was empty," said Sarbani Dey from Bijoygarh's Dey Bari.
 
 Among the biggies, only Mudiali Club in south Kolkata joined the immersion queue with 2,100-odd household, apartment and community Pujas till Dashami midnight but the cops, along with   and Kolkata Port Trust workers, worked overtime to ensure smooth traffic. The real test for the men in uniform, however, will be on Monday and even more on Tuesday, when nearly 6,000 idols will be immersed. KMC had deployed more than 4,000 labourer spread across the 17 ghats to help carry the idols to the river. They worked in tandem with crane and payloader operatators to first dip the idols into the water and then pull the wooden structures out of water and load them onto dumpers for transporting to Dhapa. Some structures did flow away in the river during high tide and were seen floating around but such mishaps were few, said KMC sources. KMC's   teams will be deployed at the ghats and there will be elaborate police patrolling along the route. Police will also provide security on the app roach roads to the ghats. Around 10,000 cops are expected to be deployed for immersion.
 
