AGARTALA: A suspect in the December 2005 IISc Bengaluru shooting was arrested on Friday night from the Jogendranagar area on the outskirts of the city. 

 ATS Karnataka and Tripura Police arrested Habib Mia (37) from his residence in a joint operation. A Karnataka court had issued a non-bailable warrant against Habib in connection with the case. A case was registered against Habib at the Sadashibnagar police station in Bengaluru, following which police had filed a chargesheet against him. It was on the basis of this that the court issued a warrant for his arrest, SP (West Tripura)   said. 
 
 On Saturday, the executive magistrate of the   and Collector office granted four days' transit remand for Habib. ATS Karnataka, led by an assistant commissioner, flew him to Bengaluru in the afternoon flight on Saturday. 
 
 Habib's wife Jharna Begam, along with other family members and neighbours, staged a demonstration in front of the court demanding his release. They claimed Habib has never even been outside Agartala and is known as a good man in the locality. Habib is a plumber by profession.
 
 "We think a conspiracy against my brother is afoot by some sections with vested interests. He has never been to Bengaluru. Terror links is a far stretch. We are poor people living in Agartala for the past two generations and there has never been any such allegation against anyone in our family. My aged parents broke down after hearing the charges against Habib. We want police to stop harassing us and release him immediately," said Habib's sister Maya Begam.
 
 Saptarshi, however, said the arrest was made only after properly confirming his identity. "Only two days ago, we got the warrant from Karnataka Police, seeking his arrest. Accordingly, we traced his presence in the Jogendranagar area and intimated Karnataka Police," he said. He added that there is "no chance of any mistake" in ascertaining his identity. 
 
 In another case, Tripura police arrested a 40-year-old man accused of murdering his wife 12 years ago at Sonatala village of Khowai in West Tripura. Jogendra Tanti, a resident of Chakber, killed his wife Anjana after a family dispute on July 22 in 2006. He went missing soon after the incident. Police had submitted a chargesheet against Jogendra Tanti at a local court stating that the person was absconding. The court circulated a permanent warrant against Jogendra Tanti. Based on inputs, police picked up him from an abandoned house in the village.
 
