KOLKATA: It is a tragedy of errors. Two years ago, parents of BEd student Sonika Singh, who allegedly fell to death inside her college campus in   on March 23, had accused college officials of hushing up the real cause of the death and of being uncooperative. Her brother had also set up a social media community named Justice for Sonika. While the family members await justice, they are now facing a weird   with many confusing this community with the one seeking justice for Kolkata’s model-turned-anchor  .

 Utpal Singh, the brother of   who is pursuing his graduation at  , was surprised to find that a sudden surge in the number of likes on the community page. “We have been running this community since 2015 after my sister passed away. We have organised candlelight marches at Jantar Mantar too,” he told TOI from Ghaziabad. On May 9, he put up a status saying: “This page was made for ‘Sonika Singh’. She died years ago… There is no relation of this page or case with   and Sonika Chauhan”. Since the confusion still remains, he is now thinking of renaming the page and calling it ‘Justice for Sonika (Ghaziabad)’.
 
 Though Utpal isn’t aware of the nitty-gritties about the Kolkata case, he understands that seeking justice in India needs a lot of patience. “A lot of patience is required to seek the truth. People will protest in the initial days. There will be a candlelight vigils. The media will cover the issue. Even politicians might talk about wanting justice. But after sometime, it will turn into a lonely battle. I don’t know who is right or wrong in the Kolkata case. But I know fighting for justice can be a long battle in India,” Utpal said.
  
  
 
 
 When TOI got in touch with Sonika’s father Madanpal Singh, a laboratory assistant with an undertaking of the Delhi government, he told TOI that there was no reason for his daughter to commit suicide. “In the morning, she attended a talent hunt programme. Why would she suddenly commit suicide? First, we were told she had injured herself after slipping from a staircase. Later, we were told she jumped off a building. The police are puppets in the hands of the powerful and corrupt. Though we are Jatavs, police hadn’t even initially invoked the SC/ST Act in the FIR,” he alleged.
 
 Madanpal wants justice for Kolkata’s Sonika too. “Every parent deserves to know the true cause of their daughter’s death. I don’t know the Kolkata family and don't know who is in the wrong. But I can feel the pain of a bereaved family. In my daughter’s case, strong charges weren’t slapped by cops. If justice isn’t delivered to India’s daughters, our nation will be extinct soon,” the bereaved father said.
 
 Madanpal insisted that caste issue and a friction between the college authorities and his daughter over dress code and fees had played a role in her death. “Due to a lot of pressure, the cops had picked up a boy after 48 hours of her death. But he was released after 24 hours. Since there was a lot of media pressure after this, he was picked up again after 15 days. But I’ve heard he is out on bail. The problem with India is that if powerful and corrupt people are involved, it is very difficult to get justice. Finance, man power and contacts are needed to get justice here,” he said.
 
