From being someone who preferred to be in the background and quietly let his work speak for himself, musician   (of the Vishal-Shekhar) fame, no longer believes in keeping a low profile. The past few years have seen Shekhar acting, writing songs and judging reality shows. Currently, the composer is judging the devotional music reality show, 'Om Shanti Om', with   and  . While talks about him throwing tantrums on the set have been doing the rounds, Shekhar clears the air in an exclusive interview with BT. Excerpts:

 
 
 There was no conscious effort. I just went with the flow. You sustain in this industry only because of good work. So, if I get an opportunity to act or sing, why wouldn’t I? It’s true that I kept a low profile earlier, but later, I got many opportunities to do different things. 
 
 
 
 That’s not true. Why will I throw tantrums? I am a positive person and I only focus on my work. I don’t waste my energy on people who spread such stories about me.
 
 
 
 Kanika has trained under a veteran musician like Anup Jalota, and I respect her for what she brings to the show. We are having a blast, and there are no cold vibes.
 
 
 
 We are all artistes; so, it would be unfair to say that only musicians can judge reality shows. If I can act, Sonakshi (Sinha) can judge a music reality show. She comes from a family that has seen it all in showbiz, and she has sung a couple of songs, too. So, I don’t see any reason why that should be questioned.
 
 
 
 That’s not true at all, we had a blast.
 
 
 
 Vishal and I have fought many times. In fact, we are planning to fight again and then perform at a reunion concert together. It has taken us 20 years to understand each other, and we plan to kill all these rumours by remaining together for the next two decades. We are both creative and eccentric and believe in doing good work. Even if we have fought, it was only for making a better product.
 
 
 
 I have not really thought about that. But yeah, it is in our best interests to be together. We can create good music together.
 
 
 
 I think reality shows are a holiday for kids. Not all children are seeing it as a career option. Many artistes, including  , Shreya Ghosal, Kunal Ganjawala and I, have participated in music reality shows. These days, schools are supportive, and if a child has the talent, and his/her parents are encouraging, what’s wrong with it? I would like to do anything that makes my child happy.
 
 
 
 Vishal is a close colleague and a family member. I will stand by him, no matter what happens in his life.
 
 
 
 I don’t want to comment on my personal life. 
 
  
  
 
