NAGPUR: The third batch of   (RSC) camp on   started on Monday, introducing another batch of children to new technologies, making them love science a bit more. The camp has been organized as a part of   Creative Science Workshops. 

 While robotics was open for students from STD VIII to XI, the latter was open for all above STD VIII, including engineering students. Hanging on to every word of their facilitator, children gave shape to their imagination using 3D printing and assembled and programmed the robots.
 
 “Looking at the current technological scenario, children need to be updated and thus RSC came up with this 3D printing workshop,” said Ramdas Iyer, project coordinator, RSC. He added, “Children get bored of science they learn in school because of a rigid pattern, but these camps generate a spirit of innovation. 3D printing is a sunrise technology which will introduce kids to a world where you can create anything from an apartment using cement to artificial organs using biomaterials.”
 
 Manoj Panda, curator of RSC, and who is instructing the students in 3D printing said, “It’s an avenue used in research and development labs and innovation hubs. The coming generation needs to see the revolution in printing. They will be trained in AutoCAD and InterCAD softwares to design and learn history and science behind 3D printing.”
 
 Robotics mentor Avinash Thakre, technician at RSC, elaborating on the content of the workshop told TOI that the children will be taught coding in C language to be used on an Arduino controller, an open source controller platform to maneuver LEGO robots. “Apart from fuelling their interest in robotics, the skills children learn during the workshop will help them if they participate in the World Robotics Olympiad 2017, to be held in Costa Rica.,” Thakre said. 
 
 Expressing his happiness at the kind of exposure children have to technology in contemporary times, Thakre added, “Kids these days know more about computer technology as they have a greater grasping power and exposure. These workshops help them understand mechanics behind the electronic toys they keep using.”
 
 Nidhi Dande, one of the students at the workshop said, “I now know things that I never knew existed and I’ll apply what I’ve learnt today in my science projects in school.” Another student Krish Yadav who aims to be a cyber-security official said, “I’ve been learning C language and now I know a different platform to use it. Maybe I’ll use robots one day to hack harmful softwares and keep all of us safe online.” 
 
 (Reporting by Nishi Jaiswal and Umabhargavi Addepalli).
 
