NEW DELHI: Two months into the ban on high-value currency, the once serpentine queues outside banks "have disappeared", claimed finance minister   in a Facebook post today.

 As well, the fact that there was no social unrest during this "inconvenient" period shows that "an overwhelmingly large percentage of people have supported the centre's decision" to take out of circulation Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes, the minister added.
 
 "It ( ) is obviously disruptive. 
  . They change the retrograde status quo. The   puts a premium on honesty and penalises dishonest conduct... (Therefore, those opposing it have) sided with the black money friendly status quo," Jaitley said.
 
 Those sentences formed the crux of Jaitley's post - sweeping reform will lead to a cleaner economy and anyone criticising it is moribund, a Luddite and corrupt. And he may have titled his post 'Demonetisation - A look back at the last two months', but the short essay was equal parts crystal grazing and equal parts a defense of the various inconveniences people have faced since the note ban came into effect November 8, 2016.
 
 About criticism that PM Modi takes "unilateral decisions" Jaitley said there's "a marked difference in the approach" of the PM and his opponents. 
 
 "The Prime Minister was being futuristic, and thinking of a more modern, technology driven 
  . He is now speaking of cleaning the political funding systems. His opponents want a cash dominated, cash generating and cash exchange system to continue. The difference between Prime Minister   and   was clear - the Prime Minister was thinking of the next generation while Rahul Gandhi was only looking at how to disrupt the next Session of Parliament," said Jaitley not pulling any punches.
 
 
 
 
 Jaitley addressed the criticism that the note ban led to acute cash shortages which in turn affected growth.
 
 "Drop in economic activity on account of the currency squeeze during the remonetisation period would have (only) a transient impact on the economy... When 86% of a country's currency constituting 12.2% of its GDP, is squeezed out of the market and sought to be replaced by a new currency, there would obviously be significant consequences of that decision," he said.
 
 The minister said this "transient impact" is a necessary step toward a cashless economy as well a tax-compliant one, with benefits for all. Cash, he said, is evil. It "funds bribery, corruption, counterfeit currency and terrorism." 
 
 "Paper currency is a zero interest anonymous bearer bond. It has no name or history attached to it. Crime can take place with or without cash but excessive cash as a medium of exchange is favoured by the underground economy. It results in non-compliance in the matters of tax payments which creates an unjust enrichment in favour of the evader as against the poor and the deprived," he wrote.
 
 The predominance of cash also leads to tax evasion, or, 'the old normal', Jaitley said.
 
 "Expenditure required for poverty eradication, national security and economic development have to be compromised with on account of tax non-compliances. For seven decades the Indian "normal" has been to undertake transactions partly in cash and partly in cheque. 'Pucca' and 'Kachha' accounts are a part of the business language. Tax evasion has been considered as neither unethical nor immoral. It was just a way of life. Several Governments have allowed this "normal" to continue even though this compromised with larger public interest. The Prime Minister's decision is intended to create a new 'normal' " Jaitley said.
 
 
 
 
 As for the note ban leading to huge problems for farmers, daily wagers and the lower middle class, Jaitley took their silence to mean consent.
 
 "There was no social unrest while implementing such a major decision. All opinion polls conducted by independent media organizations have shown that an overwhelmingly large percentage of people have supported the Government's decision," Jaitley said. 
 
 He said "the opposition disrupted a full Session of Parliament" for no reason and ineffectually. 
 
 "Their exaggerated claims on the disruption of the economy have proved wrong," he said.
 
 Now, there are only good things to look forward to, Minister Jaitley claimed.
 
 "The period of pain and inconveniences is getting over. Economic activity is being restored. The banks today admittedly have a lot more money available in order to lend for growth. Since this money constitutes low cost deposits with the banks, it is bound to bring down the rate of interest. Both these things have already happened. Lakhs of crores, which were floating in the market as lose currency, have now entered the banking system."
 
 Here is Jaitley's entire post:
 
 
 
 
 
