VARANASI: Irked by the decision of   for not fielding a woman candidate from any assembly seat of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s parliamentary constituency, a group of women under the banner of Nari Jagaran staged demonstration at Rani Laxmi Bai memorial in Bhadaini area on Sunday.

 Raising slogans 'Beti Ladao, Beti Jitao', these women urged for PM’s intervention to field a woman candidate in Varanasi. “We held a panchayat of women organisations and resolved to send a letter signed by the representatives of women colleges and women organisations to the PM urging him to field a woman candidate,” said the president of Nari Jagaran and member of BJP state executive Meena Chaubey. 
 
 
  She said that the women will take to street in support of their demand. “We are urging the PM because he understands the aspirations of women, advocates for women reservation, and has taken initiative for ‘beti bachao, beti padhao’ and introduced programmes like Ujjawala Yojna and household toilets to benefit women,” she said adding that their agitation is not against anyone, but a struggle for the dignity of women. 
 
 The women assembled at the birthplace of Rani Laxmi Bai were hope that PM will take the issue seriously and do the needful. Several women including Suniti Shukla, Kanchan Singh, Mamta Dwivedi, Neelam Mishra and others took part in the demonstration.
 
 In 2012 assembly elections two woman candidates – Jyotsana Srivastava of Bharatiya Janata Party from Varanasi Cantt and   of Apna Dal from Rohaniya were elected. The Rohaniya seat lost its woman MLA after Anupriya was elected to Lok Sabha from Mirzapur in 2014 and Mahendra Patel of Samajwadi Party won the seat in by-election. Now in 2017 assembly election the only woman MLA Jyotsana Srivastava, who represented Varanasi Cantt for four times, was also replaced by BJP, though the ticket was given to her son Saurabh Srivastava. This time not only BJP, but other parties including BSP, SP and Congress are also banking on male candidates only. 
 
 However, as many as 14 woman candidates have been fielded by different political parties in other six districts of eastern UP. Among the 10 districts, which have 61 assembly constituencies, Jaunpur is on the top with six woman contestants followed by Ghazipur (3), Azamgarh (2), Bhadohi (1), Chandauli (1) and Sonbhadra (1). There are no woman candidate contesting in four districts including Varanasi, Mirzapur, Mau and Ballia. 
 
 Mayawati’s BSP has taken a lead in fielding six women, while BJP has fielded five woman candidates and SP has given tickets to three women. The BSP has fielded Vandana Singh from Sagri, Vidya Chowdhary from Mehnagar, Sushma Patel from Mungra Badshahpur, Urmila Raj from Kerakat, Sushila Saroj from Machchlishehar, and Beena Singh from Ghorawal. The BJP has fielded Sangeeta Balwant Bind from Ghazipur, Alka Rai from Muhammadabad, Sunita Parikshit Singh from Zamaniya, Seema Dwivedi from Mungra Badshahpur and Anita Rawat from Machchlishaher, while SP has fielded Shraddha Yadav from Mariyahu, Poonam Sonkar from Chakiya and Madhubala Pasi from Aurai.
 
