Coming to Lucknow for the second time, actor   was quite troubled by the hot and humid weather in the city. "When I landed in Lucknow it was very hot but thankfully it rained and now it is pleasant. Mumbai mein it has been raining constantly and it is neither hot nor humid there," rues the actor.
Ask Arav what he liked the most about Lucknow and he comes up with a hat ke reply, "Shayari!" He adds, "I'm fond of shayari. I even follow a person on Twitter who has opened an account in the name of  . He posts original shers of Ghalib on it. Though Urdu sometimes is quite khatarnak in the shers, I love them. For me Lucknow is not just about kebabs and Nawabs but also about the shayari. Not many people know that I was supposed to do a film with filmmaker and Lucknowite Muzaffar Ali, which never went on floor. I was quite kicked about that project as he is from Lucknow. So for me, Lucknow means Muzaffar Ali and his films like 'Umrao Jaan'."
 Arav, who played   in the TV serial 'Mahabharat', says he was typecast for mythological shows after he did the show. "After  , I got a lot of offers for mythological shows and period dramas. Once makers see us in a certain role, it is easier for them to cast us in that particular frame. After playing Bhishma in Mahabharat, I used to get calls from makers of similar mytho characters which I refused,” says he, adding, “In the past if you see, I have also done romantic thriller like ' ?' too. But after that, since I didn’t get offers for good roles on TV I moved to cinema. I did   3 and I have recently done a Tamil film 'Vivegam', which will be releasing soon."
 We wonder then what made Arav say yes to a period drama like  ? "After a lot of thought and reading the script and watching the show, I said yes to 'Kahaani Devsena Ki-Aarambh'. The look of the show and the special effects is grander than any other show on TV so far. The series has a cinema touch to it. That’s what made me say yes to it," says Aarav who was in Lucknow to promote the show.
 While he might not like being typecast in a mythological genre on TV it is because of his serial Mahabharat that landed him a movie down South. “Superstar of South, Ajith Kumar sir, who has directed the movie Vivegam, saw the Tamil version of my serial Mahabharat which is till running there.He liked my acting so much that he gave me a call and offered me this film. In the film, which is an action thriller, I play a spy. The movie is entirely shot in Europe.” 
 While most   actors in the past just might find a contrast between the functioning of Bollywood and Tollywood, Aarav says there is hardly any striking difference between the two. "While people think that Tollywood is far more organised than Bollywood, let me tell you that it is not true. Well, our Hindi film industry is not at all disorganised. Kisi zamane mein Bollywood disorganised hota tha jab ek actor bahutsaari films karta tha. Now an actor mostly does one film at a time. The only difference I could spot between the two industries is that filmmakers down South are more lenient towards their budgets while we are very strict about the money part. And it isn't like filmmakers down South shoot from early in the morning till evening. They too shoot for two to three days continuously just like directors here," he shares.
 
  
  Actor Arav Chowdharry in Lucknow (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)
 
 
