After a two-hour-long wait, the   performed before an enthusiastic audience at Ullas, the recently held annual cultural festival of  . Although the Sufi singers had reached the college on time, the stage was occupied by other performers, which was the reason why they had to wait for their performance. Drawing the first day of the fest to a close, the Sufi duo captivated the audience with their music.

  
  Students while watching the Nizami Brothers perform 
 
 
 
 
 The Nizami Brothers began their performance with 'Allah Hu' and thanked the students’ union of the college for inviting them to perform at their fest. "We had performed here last month also (at Concoction, the theatre festival of KNC). The best thing about DU is that we have youngsters here, and with every performance, we get to understand better what the youth wants to listen to," said   from the Nizami Brothers. Hasan Nizami added, "Woh Bollywood songs ko sunna chahte hain aur unke liye entertainment bohut important hai. Aise youngsters bohut kam milte hain jinhe pure Sufi sunna hota hai."
 
  Keeping the taste of the young generation in mind, the singers also sang some Bollywood numbers, but added a sufiana twist. "We sing songs like 'Channa Mereya', 'Main Jahan Rahoon' with a touch of Sufi. Kyunki agar hum pure Sufi gaane lag jaaye, toh koi bhi nahi sunega yahan," said  . 
 
  
  (L) Dr Kalpana Bhakuni, the principal of the college
 
 
  
 Although the footfall on the first day of the fest was a bit low, the students who had managed to wait till their performance didn’t complain. Meenakshi Kumar, a first year student of KNC, said, "Most of our friends left because of the delay in their performance, but we wanted to watch them perform. We really liked the way they sang songs like 'Channa Mereya'. Yeh 'Channa Mereya' thoda different tha. This was actually worth the wait."
 
   , the president of the students’ union, added, "It was a hectic day, but we are glad that we got the chance to listen to their music on the first day of the festival."
 
 
 
 
