Bhopal: They say happiness is a choice. Just how to choose it will now be taught in Madhya Pradesh.

 The state   — the only one of its kind in the country — is in talks with IIT-Kharagpur and Indian School of Business-Hyderabad to start a course on how to be happy, say officials. Anyone can sign up, age no bar. Lessons start in July.
 
 Director of happiness department, Neeraj Vashishta, said, “Things have almost been finalised and the ‘happiness course’ will be introduced through the two premier institutes within a few months. If all goes as planned, it will start by July.” The one-year course will be in Hindi and English and a nominal fee of around Rs 2,000 will be charged for it, said an official, adding that the government would want as many as people as possible to take the lessons. 
 
 It’s a sign that the happiness department is stirring into action after nearly a year of ifs and buts. Although hailed as a unique idea across the country, and by religious leaders like the Dalai Lama, no one knew for long what exactly was expected of the department. It doesn’t even have an independent office. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, who dreamt up the department, also spelt it out by announcing scholarships for bright yet needy students, and linking development projects and welfare schemes to spread the cheer. The main objective of the department is to ensure “happiness in the lives of common people”, an official said.
 
 The state happiness department has introduced a calendar, which the CM presented to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Its budget was more than doubled from Rs 2 crore to Rs 4.75 crore in this year’s state budget. The department is in the process of setting up a swanky office in the Board Office complex in Bhopal.
 
 A month ago, a team of MP officials visited Bhutan to understand the happiness model prevalent there. Officials have submitted their report and government may take some tips from it, too. What they missed out on is that Bhutan has slipped to 97th place from 84 among 155 countries in this year’s World Happiness Report released by the United Nations. Norway, Denmark and Switzerland topped the charts in both 2016 and 2017, while Bhutan, China and even Pakistan and Bangladesh ranked higher than India (118).
 
 Bhutan, Venezuela and UAE have a ministry/department for happiness
 
 
