KOLKATA: With some schools conducting first-term tests and pre-board examination around the corner, fever has become a major concern for parents and students alike. While viral fever itself is communicable, at a time when sporadic cases of swine flu and dengue fever are being reported, doctors advise everyone to be more careful.

 “Around 50% patients running a temperature have just viral fever. Though people shouldn't panic, there are reasons to be careful. We have come across many patients who are taking antibiotics without consulting doctors, leading to resistance,“ said  , a general medicine consultant at the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences.
 
 While most viral fever cases are self-limiting and can be treated with Paracetamol, rehydration and rest, many are flocking to hospitals to rule out the possibility of having dengue or swine flu.
 
 “Viral fever is quite common during any change of season. Most of the cases that we treated so far were uncomplicated. However, in some cases the temperature is very high and persistent with accompanying symptoms such as lethargy, respiration problems and abdo minal pain. Such patients should consult a doctor without delay,“ said Prabas Prasun Giri, PICU in-charge at Institute of Child Health Kolkata.
 
 Viral fever is communicable and spreads through droplets that are released into the air when an affected person coughs or sneezes. Children are the most vulnerable group as their immunity is lesser than adults, followed by those using steroids or having asthma or diabetes.
 
 “Dengue, swine flu and influenza viruses crop up during this time of the year along with common viral fever. This may sometimes lead the patients to panic. But for a viral fever one just needs Paracetamol to keep it at bay along with consuming enough water for rehydration and taking rest,“ said  , senior consultant (medicine) at Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals.
 
 Dengue has already claimed four in the   municipality, while swine flu has taken at least five lives this year.Though viral fever is not as lethal as the two infections, it can easily spread from one person to another. Thus, school-goers who share transport and sit in close proximity in classrooms need to be more careful. If the fever is high and persisting for more than four days, one must go for H1N1test.
 
