 is no more the bubbly, wide-eyed girl we saw on ' ' four years ago. From being a reality show contestant, she is all set to host one now — the stand-up comedy show, ' '. For Elli too, there’s a big ‘challenge’ involved in the task — she will be required to speak in Hindi, and that too, fluently. So, is she up for it? In an interview with BT, the actress answers that question and also confesses her love for India and Bollywood. Excerpts...

 
 
 Well, you must not forget that I was on 'Bigg Boss' just before the release of my debut film. Back then, many people dissuaded me from participating in the show. I, too, was nervous, but I had a lot of fun during my stay inside the house. That’s not all; the stint also resulted in more work. I believe that actors shouldn’t be prejudiced against any medium. Many actresses have qualms about performing item numbers, as they fear getting typecast, but I have no such apprehensions. This show is a new journey for me; hosting in Hindi seemed like a huge challenge, but it will enable me to grow as a person. 
 
 
 
 All of us joke about and with each other. It’s in a fun space and not demeaning at all.
 
 
 
 Hosting is not just about talking — it’s about becoming a medium between the judges, mentors, contestants and the audience. Having said that, my Hindi is much better now. I actually speak the language on a daily basis, though I become conscious when someone says, ‘Chalo, ab Hindi mein baat karo’. Fortunately, this show leaves me with no option except getting rid of that fear. 
 
 
 
 For me, whatever I have done so far is amazing. I come from a small town in Sweden and my biggest dream was to come to India and act in at least one Hindi film. Today, I have done so much more than that. So, it’s all about perception — some will say bas itna kiya, while others will think I have done a lot.
 
 
 
 I feel happy, as their success gives so much hope to other foreign aspirants. Bollywood has many fans abroad; I, too, feel a strong connect with India and Indian films. Talking about feeling insecure, I don’t compete with anyone because we all come from different backgrounds and have different journeys. I have always focussed on my own journey and happiness. Of course, there will be roles that you wish you had played, but that’s normal. 
 
 
 
 I respect him and share a beautiful relationship with him, which I don’t wish to dilute. Also, I am hardworking and have confidence in my talent to get work on my own. Salman is generous and I know he’ll be there if I need him.
 
 
 
 Honestly, I feel extremely safe in Mumbai. In fact, I get very upset when people abroad feel that India is not safe for women. What they don’t realise is that such incidents happen in other countries as well; it’s just that they don’t talk about it. Obviously, the numbers will be higher in India because of the population. I believe that every woman should empower herself — physically, emotionally and financially. Talking about physical empowerment, I practise martial arts.
 
 
 
 I am in love with myself at the moment (laughs). Beyond that, I don’t wish to divulge much about my personal life. I prefer being a mysterious girl about whom people don’t know much.
 
