PATNA: City schools affiliated to the Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) board are bracing up to tackle the incidents of ragging and bullying on school premises.   Don Bosco Academy has already taken several initiatives to curb the chances of bullying on school campus. Principal Mary Alphonsa said, “Our school has long maintained a tradition of discipline. Incidents of bullying rarely take place in our school as we depute one teacher as disciplinary in-charge, who keep tab on students’ activities and ensure that no student is bullied or oppressed by others.”    The anti-bullying committee of the school is managed by vice-principal Eric De Rozario. “All the members of the committee take appropriate measures without any biasness. Even parents can easily approach the principal regarding any problem faced by their wards on the school premises,” said Eric.    In a circular, the CISCE has asked all its affiliated schools to mention in their prospectuses the following message, “Bullying is strictly prohibited inside the school premises and no such act will go unnoticed or unpunished.”    The circular recommends that schools constitute anti-bullying committees, comprising vice-principal, a senior teacher, school doctor, a counsellor, a lawyer and representatives of the parent-teacher association and the school management.    “Bullying can have serious implications for a child and leave a lasting impression on his mind,” said Sister Serena, principal of Mt Carmel High School.    “The school administration has not only formed anti-bully committee, but also put up grievance redressal boxes at several places on school campus,” she said adding the parent-teacher association and the school alumni association play crucial role in this committee by organising various seminars and workshops.    Abhishek Patrick, director of Jesus and Mary Academy, said the two counsellors, class teachers, student volunteers and parents-teacher association are parts of the anti-bully committee. “If a student is ragged by another student, it will be the responsibility of the class teacher, student (class monitor) and counsellor to sort out the matter with the principal,” he added.    International School (ICSE) has put up a signboard on school premises, strictly prohibiting bullying. “The school will organise parent-teacher meeting more often to address the issue,” said Farhat Hassan, the school director. The school has also appointed a doctor for regular health check-up of students and for their counselling.    The head of psychiatry department of PMCH, Pramod Kumar Singh, said, “Schools must create an environment where learning can take place peacefully. They must build a trusting, respectful relationship among students, school administration and families. Bullying has severe detrimental effects on those who are bullied. The effects can be immediate. They can also cause life-long damage,” said Singh.