KUALA LUMPUR: Punjab finance minister  , in an impassioned plea to the   from the 10-member  , exhorted it to not only invest in an industry-ready Punjab but also to build and bond with its   Addressing the gathering at the first-ever Asean Sikh forum organized in Kuala Lumpur on Saturday, the minister spoke in English and Punjabi, often resorting to his signature Urdu poetry during the address.

 Reiterating the Sikh identity and the community’s positive role in India’s progress at all points in history, his speech to the Sikh entrepreneurs had a loud and clear message: ‘Now, do your bit for Punjab’.
 
 Manpreet said Punjab is moving from food production to high-tech industries, start-ups and innovations, adding that investors could access a single-window to set up any industry. He said one person has been vested with powers 23 departments for quick project clearance. “All investors will be given a relationship manager as soon as they land in Punjab,” he said.
 
 Pitching for Punjab’s shift towards industry, Manpreet recounted how Punjab stepped in when India was short of food post-independence. “Though being just 1.5% of total land mass of India, Punjab contributes 40% of India’s food grain demands,” he said, adding, the only state with no industrial base is Punjab, and we must diversify our economy now.”
 
 Montek Singh Ahluwalia, former deputy chairman of the Planning Commission, took on a more India-centric approach. He said, “It is reasonable to think, assuming there is no negative global trend, that India could do better than 7% growth. Further, the relative size of the Indian economy in Asia is going to expand while that of China would remain at it is or even shrink.”
 
 The first Asean Sikh Economic & Entrepreneurship Summit (ASEES), organized by ASEES chairman Palvinderjit Singh and his team, brought together Malaysian Sikh professionals, CEOs and SMEs businessmen from Singapore, Thailand and Philippines. Coinciding with the 25th year of Asean India Dialogue Partnership, this flagship initiative aims at building a network of influential business leaders, policy makers, and academicians which will help Sikh entrepreneurs to tap into new opportunities,” said Palvinderjit Singh.
 
 
