PANAJI: The BJP-led government is walking a tightrope as far as Saligao constituency is concerned. On one hand, it has to please its coalition partner,   (GFP), whose MLA   was given a cabinet berth by chief minister  , if it wants to keep the alliance intact; on the other hand it has to also keep its ‘karyakartas’ (workers) happy after the party lost the Saligao constituency.

 Last month, TOI had reported that a section of BJP supporters went against Parulekar for several reasons. This anti-Parulekar camp within the Saligao BJP block extended support to Salgaonkar’s poll campaign and have backed the GFP’s decision to support Manohar Parrikar in forming a BJP-led government.
 
 The BJP camp owing allegiance to defeated MLA Dilip Parulekar, meanwhile, bears a crestfallen look with chief minister Manohar Parrikar handing over a cabinet ministry to Salgaonkar, who they fought against in the election. “It’s a volatile situation in Saligao,” said a source. 
 
 “There’s a BJP government in power and they must ensure they keep their ‘karyakartas’ happy. At the same time, they have to ensure that their ally, Goa Forward Party is kept content.”
 
 A large part of the BJP camp who voted for Parulekar are, however, dejected that their rival, Salgaonkar, has got a cabinet berth in the coalition government. Parulekar’s supporters say that the former tourism minister cannot be written off. Those against Parulekar in the Saligao BJP block say that the party must look out for a new face if it hopes to win the constituency again.
 
 The panchayat polls scheduled for May 2017 may act as a litmus test for Parulekar if he wants to maintain his hold over the panchayats in Saligao. Political observers say Salgaonkar’s moves will be watched with interest if he can manage to wean away more BJP supporters to his side.
 
 Meanwhile, GFP supporting the BJP and helping it form the government has also set off repercussions in Saligao constituency with Salgaonkar and his close supporters firefighting dissent and anger from those who voted for a change in government.
 
 Many voters had earlier decided to cast their vote in favour of the Aam Admi Party (AAP) but changed their mind when it became clear the Salgaonkar would give a tough fight to unseat Parulekar. “Just a couple of days prior to the election, we realized that it would be better to consolidate our votes to defeat Parulekar. We wanted a change and thought GFP would bring that change,” said a voter.
 
 Salgaonkar defeated Parulekar by 2,000-odd votes, but GFP’s U-turn by supporting the BJP government has left voters seething. A video of GFP chief Vijai Sardesai justifying his decision to support a BJP-led government was circulated around the constituency over the last two days. Sources said it did help in quelling the fire to some extent.
 
 “With Salgaonkar getting a cabinet berth, it remains to be seen how he seizes the opportunity to bring development in the constituency. There are many areas that have been neglected. There are many illegal projects which the panchayats did not act against due to political patronage. Let us see if he (Salgaonkar) keeps his word to us, when he came campaigning,” said a voter. 
 
 TOI’s efforts to contact Parulekar were futile.
 
 
