AHMEDABAD: Gujarat, the ‘model’ state, is 9th among Indian states in the number of farmer suicides taking place over 3 years - 2013 to 2015. In this period, 1,483 farmers killed themselves in Gujarat because they were heavily in debt. 

 Data with   (MHA) indicates that 582 farmers committed suicide in 2013. The year 2014 was even worse with 600 deaths. In 2015, the situation apparently improved with 301 farmer suicides in Gujarat. But the state was still ranked 9th among states in farmer suicides.
 
  This came to light during the hearing of a petition filed in the   by an Ahmedabad-based farmer rights activist, Bharatsinh Jhala.   said during the hearing that the government should have schemes to prevent farmer suicides instead of compensating the bereaved families after the farmers had killed themselves.
 
 The number of farmer suicides in state is much higher than indicated by the MHA. 
 
 “The cause of death in most of these cases is mentioned as 'Personal Reasons'. The truth, however, is that the farmers had killed themselves because they were heavily in debt,” said Jhala. 
 
 The petition on farmer suicides was filed in the apex court by Jhala. “The government continues to be indifferent towards farmers. It never ensures that the farmers are paid minimum support price (MSP) or crop failure insurance,” Jhala said.
 
 He further said that farmers usually end up in debt when they borrow from private moneylenders money for sowing and irrigation. 
 
 “In many cases, they have to pay hefty interest to the moneylenders. This is a vicious circle which ends with the death of small and marginalized farmer,” Jhala said.
 
 Showing the suicide note of a deceased farmer, Jhala said that Aniruddh Jadeja, a small farmer of Khijdad village in Devbhoomi Dwarka, had committed suicide on October 4, 2012. “But his family members did not get any compensation from the government,” Jhala said.
 
 The suicide note says that the government spends lakhs on melas. “They why can’t it give compensation to farmers?” Jadeja’s suicide note is addressed to then chief minister Narendra Modi.
 
 State admits just 91 deaths 
 
 Gandhinagar: The Gujarat government, which always claims that there are hardly any farmer suicides in the state, has officially accepted just 91 cases of suicide by farmers were registered in the last five years. State agriculture minister Chiman Sapariya, in a written response to an unstarred question by   Dr Tejshree Patel, said from 2012 to 2016 (Oct) a total of 91 farner suicide cases were registered in Gujarat. In 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016 (till Oct), there were 36, 33,8, 8 and 6   cases respectively in state. The highest number (48) of cases were registered in Jamnagar district. 
 
