KARWAR: In a major setback to  , the pontiff of Shri Ramachandrapur Mutt, the CID filed a ‘B’ report in a Honnavar court in   on Tuesday, in the blackmail case filed against singer Premalatha, her husband   and her brother-in-law  . 

 The CID, after thorough investigation, concluded that the complaint filed by the mutt is false. The filing of the ‘B’ report gained importance as devotees of the mutt had expressed doubts that police would term their complaint false, and also alleged that the investigation was not done properly. 
 
 It may be recalled that on August 15, 2014, Chandrashekhar, an administrator of the mutt, had lodged a complaint of blackmail against Premalatha and others in Honnavar police station. He had alleged that the accused were blackmailing the seer and threatening artists slated to perform at the Ramakatha function during Chatursmasa in Kekkar village in Honnavar taluk. He said the accused were pushing the seer to abdicate his Gurupeetha, threatening to defame him if he failed to pay them Rs 3 crore. 
 
 Soon after that, Honnavar police arrested the Shastry couple from Bengaluru and brought them to Honnavar. Later they were lodged in the District Jail in Karwar. Their daughter then lodged a cross-complaint at Girinagar police station in Bengaluru, alleging that her mother Premalatha had been raped by the seer 90 times in 40 places across India, between 2010 and 2014. 
 
 She alleged that Premalatha had decided to lodge a complaint of rape against the seer, but to pre-empt her move, the mutt employees lodged a false blackmail case, and got her and the others arrested. After her release from jail, Premalatha too reiterated the allegations against the seer. 
 
 After an uproar that Honnavar police were acting under the pressure of the mutt, the case was transferred to the CID. The seer and his followers, who are engaged in a prolonged legal battle with Premalatha and her family, termed the ‘B’ report unfortunate and said they would challenge it in court. 
 
