On August 5, Mumbai will witness a face-off between India’s poster boy of boxing,   and oriental favourite,  . With the winner getting to take home a double title, the pugilists are leaving no stone unturned to give their 100 per cent to the match. Sitting miles away in Manchester, Vijender spoke to BT about the simmering tension at the Indo-Chinese border, his sentiments for his opponents, girls in the boxing ring and his impending biopic. Excerpts... 

 
 Given the current scenario on our border, I am pumped up to fight a Chinese opponent. I have an added incentive to work harder and beat him in the ring and ensure that our flag flies high. I don’t want to let my country down. Although I don’t know too much about him, I have seen some of Zulpikar’s fights and I’ve asked my coach to carefully observe his strengths and weaknesses. I usually do this for all my bouts because I never take an opponent lightly, no matter who he is. 
 
 
 (Cuts in) Yes, and I am doing a lot of things to prepare for the fight. I’m working on every aspect of my body. The training is hardcore and we’re not leaving anything to chance and time. The focus is on keeping the stamina high and polishing the technique further. We are coming to Mumbai in a few days. You’ll know what has gone into the training when you see me in the ring. 
 
 
 I don’t have anything good or bad to say about Amir. I just want to see him in the ring, bas! I will not reveal my strategy against him, but yes, I will apply some of my newer techniques and put up a great fight. Why should I talk about him any further? Let him experience me in the ring. 
 
 
 No. On the contrary, if you think that I am the poster boy of this sport, I feel a sense of added responsibility. Today, the youth has begun to pursue almost all the sports as professions, including boxing. No matter what the sport is, you will have people watching you. So, you can’t be callous about your choices, training, effort and dedication for the game. 
 
 
 Mary Kom is the greatest example of a woman boxer. She has won championships, fought odds and found her way up, not only in the game but also in the hearts of millions of Indians. Hers is the most motivating story that I know. She is a woman girls must look up to. I even loved her biopic. That said, there can only be one Mary Kom like there is only one Dara Singh. These are inspirations. They don’t have to be aped as examples. They are benchmarks. They pave the way for generations to come. We need girls to be driven like she is, but they also have to create an identity of their own. Warna wahi hoga, kauwa chala hans ki chaal, aur apni chaal bhi bhool gaya. Be yourself. 
 
 
 I am glad every sport is getting importance now. Kidambi Srikanth has done a great job, the women’s hockey team has performed well. The women’s cricket team has also made us immensely proud. It’s no longer about one sport in India. Today’s children are lucky because there’s so much encouragement for everything. As sportspersons, we have always strived to bring the country on the global map, but it wouldn’t have happened had the media not been with us. 
 
 
 Yes, God has been kind to me and he has given me so much. However, it’s too early now; I am still learning. I see a lot of potential in the younger lot, they are raring to go. The newer platforms for boxing have also brought out a lot of young players. I think we’re in a good place. 
 
 
 The producers will decide who fits my role better. Bollywood has a different way of functioning. I am sure they will choose the best, but they must wait before making a biopic on me. I still have a long way to go. 
 
 
 
 
 
