 made his   debut with Aamir Khan's romcom ' ', also featuring   and Genelia D'Souza. 

 This was followed by Kiran Rao's directorial debut 'Dhobi Ghat', Prakash Jha's hard-hitting social drama 'Aarakshan', Sanjay Leela Bhansali's musical comedy 'My Friend Pinto', Manish Mundra's comedy drama 'Umrika' which premiered at the 2015 Sundance Film Festival and Manish Tiwary's 2013 Romeo-Juliet tragic romance, 'Issaq', before disappearing into the blue. Now, Mirror has learnt that the 30-year-old actor will be re-launched by producer   in the Ahmed Khan directed 'Baaghi' sequel as the young negative lead. 
 
  
  
 The film has Tiger Shroff and Disha Patani in the lead. "It is an important role and Prateik suits the character perfectly. He was signed recently and is extremely excited because Tiger is a childhood friend and this is the first time they will be sharing screen space together," informs a source close to the development.The actor will start prepping for his role closer to the first schedule in August. In the past, Sajid has launched many young faces, including Tiger and Kriti Sanon in Sabbir Khan's 'Heropanti'.
 
 Now, he will be launching Disha as the lead in 'Baaghi 2' and later Suniel Shetty's son Ahan. "Prateik will be seen in a never seen before avatar in the film," adds the source.
 
 In an earlier interview to Mirror (December 13) Prateik had revealed that he wants to act more, learn more. On mother Smita Patil's 30th death anniversary last December, the actor celebrated a year-long sobriety from alcohol and drugs and admitted that he was trying to resurrect himself. "The last five years were the worst years of my life. I took everything for granted and I was neither doing well professionally nor was I satisfied emotionally. Then, one day, a switch inside me flipped and I gave it all up," Prateik had said.
 
 However, he is in a happier space today, a healthy lifestyle having changed his life for the better."Opportunities are coming in and I'm determined to work hard because now I don't fear failure anymore," he confided. 'Baaghi' could just be the resurrection he's been looking for.
 
  
  
  
  
 
