NEW DELHI: While   are threatening to go up even further in Delhi, having already touched Rs 100 per kg this season, vendors in the   Mandi   of an acute shortage of this vegetable in the next few days. The reason they cite is illegal occupation of some sheds in the wholesale market because of which several tomato traders have been sitting on a dharna. 

 “We have been protesting for the past six days and met labour minister Gopal Rai on Tuesday, asking that the illegal occupation of our sheds be stopped. However, we have been given no assurances and on Friday, we will go on strike,” said Anil Malhotra, general secretary of the vegetable traders’ association. 
 
 On Tuesday, about 2,000-2,500 tonnes of   arrived at the mandi against a normal arrival of about 12,000-16,000 tonnes. Sources said there was a country-wide shortage of tomatoes due to heavy rain in several states and only produce from Himachal Pradesh was reaching Delhi. “Tomatoes sold for Rs 70-80 per kg in the mandi on Tuesday, which means that in the retail market, one can expect prices to rise to Rs 110 or even Rs 120 in the coming two-three days,” warn a trader. 
 
 While the shortfall was expected, the agitation by tomato traders has resulted in an even lesser arrival of tomatoes, said Metha Ram Kriplani, another trader. “On July 20, APMC issued notices to companies that have illegally occupied seven tomato sheds and two sheds of mausambi. That is a clear acknowledgement that their occupation of the said sheds is illegal. Despite that, no action has been taken against them till now,” said Kriplani. “We want our sheds back and want action against officials who have colluded with the encroachers. Unless the encroachment is removed, we will continue with our strike on Friday.”
 
 Minister Rai said that he met representatives of both camps on Tuesday and the best solution that he had for this problem was to reallocate the sheds. “If one camp is claiming that the other has occupied sheds illegally, then this is how sheds have been occupied in the mandi for years. I have spoken to officials as well and now the allotment will be on the basis on payment of market fees. Space will be allocated in proportion to market fees paid. The same exercise had to be carried out with the potato and onion traders as well,” he added.
 
 
