LUDHIANA:   police arrested a   in a Rs 17-crore fraud late on Tuesday evening. 

 Gopinder Singh Bakshi, 62, a resident of Sector 33, Chandigarh, was nabbed from his   office. 
 
 Police had booked Gopinder, who runs a bus service center in Panchkula, his brother Harpreet Singh Bakshi and two Mumbai-based businessman Aditya Kashyap and Vishal Sharma for the fraud in 2015 on the complaint of Vinod Garg, a resident of Agar Nagar, here. 
 
 Garg, 58, owner of spinning mills, said in his police complaint, “In 2011, I planned to start a spinning mill in Macchiwara. For the project, I required a loan of Rs 350 crore. I decided to take it from State Bank of India. Around that time, a friend introduced me to Bakshi brothers. The two told me that they could help me secure the loan from a European firm at zero interest rate. I agreed to the alluring deal.” 
 
 The two took Garg to Geneva for a meeting with the firm officials. After several meeting, Garg refused to take the loan, as “it would be difficult to bring the amount to India due to the customs department laws”. The three then returned to Ludhiana. A few months later, the Bakshi brothers introduced Garg to Mumbai businessmen Aditya Kashyap and Vishal Sharma. 
 
 “As I run a business in Dubai, too, the four asked me take the loan from there. We went to Dubai for a couple of months. Meanwhile, I paid Rs 17 crore to Gopinder to secure the loan. A few days later, Harpreet returned to Chandigarh without informing me. Soon thereafter, Gopinder advised me not to raise loan from Dubai as it would be fraught with problems. As all plans went awry, he said he would return Rs 17 crore to me,” Garg added. 
 
 Assistant sub-inspector Rajinder Singh said, “Garg approached the then police commissioner, Pramod Ban, after the four did not return the money even after a year. A case was registered against them in 2015 after a thorough probe.” 
 
 When the accused were still not arrested, Garg moved the Punjab and Haryana high court, which 10 days ago directed the police to immediately arrest the accused. 
 
 On Tuesday, police arrested Gopinder after a raid at his Panchkula office. The three others are still on the run.
 
