NEW DELHI: When you step into some   shops in Delhi, you might be assailed by the stench of scorched material. As you wonder what that could be, you could be startled to see the hands of the hair stylist moving frantically over the burning head of a customer. You think that a gigantic mishap is in the offing, but have no fears, for soon enough the client, looking more contented than outraged, peers indulgently into the mirror and walks out with a swagger. Welcome to the capital’s latest trend of “fire haircut”.

 This craze among the coiffure conscious citizens of Delhi involves styling the hair using flammable chemicals. The result is often a stiffer head of hair. The barbers peddling this more expensive hair-cutting method — it costs Rs 200 instead of the normal Rs 100 or so — also claim that scorched hair is stronger, thicker and shinier. Research being scanty, there is no way to confirm these assertions, but experts say hair needs to be treated gently — and burning may not be the equivalent of gentleness.
 
 A recent entrant in the capital, the use of fire to style hair, or candle-cutting as it is called when a   flame is involved, has been traditionally used abroad in places like Brazil and Italy. But even Indians, among them Sikhs and women in some places, have used fire for hair care.
 
 For those whose natural hair is limp, the incendiary touch stabilises it for contemporary styles. “It looks dangerous, but it’s not. I did not even feel the sensation of burning,” testified 19-year-old Faisal Khan, who was at Sahib & Sahiba Salon in Gandhi Nagar, east Delhi, to get the popular undercut style now sported by men from Virat Kohli to Cristiano Ronaldo.
 
 Nazim Ali, the salon owner who claimed to have introduced the technique in Delhi, said more than 10 customers seek him out for a fire cut every day. “Males aged from 16 to 30 come from as far as Kanpur to get their   in this fashion.”
 
 While Ali uses chemicals for a controlled topside blaze, many others employ, like the Brazilians do, candles for the purpose. “Burning by candle makes the hair shiny and stronger,” declared Mohammad Parvez at N-Rich Unisex Salon in Geeta Colony. Saurav Ahuja, a chartered accountant, agreed. He said, “The first time I tried it, I felt some fear. Now it’s a joy.”
 
 More information can be gathered at a seminar on ‘Fire Haircut’ being organised on May 23 at Hindi Bhawan near ITO. Experts will not only explain the science behind the technique, but also put on show the trending art.
 
 
