CHENNAI: The  , which began on Thursday, is likely to hit business to the tune of Rs 1,500 crore a day in the state, said the office-bearers of Tamil Nadu Lorry Owners’ Federation. The federation representatives said the stir would continue as discussions with the government, pressing for various demands had failed. Essential   such as milk, water, vegetables and medicines are exempted from the strike.

 One of the main demands of truck operators is withdrawal of additional VAT on fuel announced recently by the state. Truckers also demand that the government repeal the hike in license renewal and fitness certificate fees and increase in third party insurance premium announced by the Centre. The strike is on in Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Puducherry, said Kumaraswamy, president of the federation. He was talking to reporters at the Secretariat after holding discussions with the state transport minister M R Vijayabhaskar.
 
 Out of 4.5 lakh trucks and goods carriers currently running in the state, 80 per cent of the vehicles had gone off roads on day one of the strike, said Kumaraswamy. He said truck owners had instructed their drivers to bring back vehicles that had gone to northern parts of the country without any load.
 
 V R Soundararajan, advisor to the Koyambedu Vegetable Market Vendors’ Association, said that 350 trucks bring supplies to the market from various districts and neighbouring states daily. “The impact of the strike on business will be known only on Friday or Saturday. Small vehicles that bring vegetables from within the state might operate. But if the strike continues, vegetables from other states will not come and prices of fruits and vegetables will increase,” he said.
 
 The ongoing drought has already shrunk regular supply of vegetables and fruits resulting in hike in prices. “Vegetable prices are already skyrocketing and the strike will only worsen the scenario”, said K Mariammal, a vegetable vendor in Doak Nagar in Madurai.
 
 S Yuvaraj, president of Tamil Nadu State Sand Lorry Owners’ Federation, said that 55,000 sand lorries were also participating in the strike.
 
 In Erode and Namakkal districts, home to several truck owners transporting goods to neighbouring states, close to 5,000 trucks kept off roads. Around 26,000 trucks did not operate in the delta districts of Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam. About 2,000 trucks were taken off roads in Madurai. Madurai Lorry Owners’ Association president C Sathiah said trucks were stationed in parking lots around the city. About 500 trucks that had come from northern states were also stranded, he said.
 
 “Due to the indefinite strike, we had stopped booking goods such as cement, sugar, turmeric, textiles and machineries from Monday. About Rs 12,000 crore worth commodities are stranded in the state,” said V Rajavadivel, president, Tamil Nadu Lorry Booking Agents’ Federation.
 
 
