KAPURTHALA: Rail Coach Factory (RCF), Kapurthala, has rolled out first rake of 19 coaches of Tejas, which can run at a speed of 200 kmph. The rake would be used between   and Madgaon (Goa). 

 The rake,which rolled out on Thursday, has 14 executive chair cars, 14 AC chair cars and three power cars. It has major upgradation in terms of braking system, automatic doors like in   trains, sound and dust proof vestibules, and leg-rest in executive class. Several other features have also been added.
 
 RCF general manager   said as the signal distance for these high speed coaches would be same that for other trains, the biggest focus was on enhancing the quickness and efficiency of braking system. The coaches of Alstom-LHB configuration would now have stainless steel brake disc, sintered pads and electro-pneumatically assisted brake system. He said that it was for the first time his system was introduced in any Indian train. The electro- pneumatic system would ensure that the brake signal from the engine would be transmitted instantly to all coaches without any time lapse to the last coach.
 
 Nibariya informed that the rake has capacity to run at a speed of 200 kmph but currently it would be run at a speed of 160 kmph. “To enhance the speed further, railway track needs to be upgraded,” he said.
 
 Plug Type Entrance Door like Metro Train coaches have been introduced in these coaches which have provision to close automatically at 5 kmph besides providing better dust, sound and heat insulation. The third major modification in these coaches involves the improved and wider inter-car gangway (vestibule) area between the coaches, which will help to reduce dirt and water ingress besides reducing noise level.
 
  The other important features which have been introduced in these coaches include six CCTV cameras in each coach - two on either side and two in the coach, redesigned seats with e-leather, infotainment system for each passenger, call bell integrated with berth reading light, touch-less water taps and soap –dispenser in lavatories, bio-toilets with vacuum evacuation assistance as the muck would be emptied at the designated stations only and would not be discharged in the open. The toilets would be having marble finish with anti-graffiti coating on walls. While the passenger coaches would have fire and detection system, the power cars would have fire suppression system.
 
 Meanwhile, GM   said that they were working on to produce two more rakes by next October-November with even more improvements.
 
