PILIBHIT: Following the district magistrate's decision to thrust VRS on 90 government staffers and suspension and registration of FIRs against 87 others for 'shirking' election duty, basic education teachers in Pilibhit have decided to boycott the final examinations scheduled to be held in government primary and upper primary schools in the state between March 15 and March 23. Leaders of teachers' associations have also warned that they would launch a state-wide agitation against the DM's decision and paralyse the entire examination process. Meanwhile, DM   said the agitation of basic teachers would be curbed by enforcing stringent legal action.
 
  Condemning the administrative action and terming it as biased, district general secretary of teachers’ union,  , said around 6,500 teachers of basic education in the district would boycott the examinations of primary and upper primary schools and would paralyze the whole system. He said the teachers would also launch state-wide protest against the decision.   claimed that all the basic education teachers had duly submitted applications for exemption from election duty to the chief development officer, Indra Dev  , but these applications were not noted in official records. One of the suspended teachers, Anwar Khan, affirmed that he had filed his exemption application to CDO.
  
  State president of teachers’ union  , speaking to TOI over phone from Lucknow, said temporary physical unfitness could not be treated as permanent disability for carrying out government duty. “I therefore comprehend the administrative decisions to punish these employees as completely unjustified,” he said. Sharma said an agitation against exploitation of teachers would be organized in three phases — starting on the district level first and then on division level and finally the entire state.
  
  DM Sarvar made it clear that no one would be given the liberty to flout the law and administrative decisions. “Agitators will face stringent legal action if they disrupt the forthcoming examinations of basic education. The administration is capable of making alternative arrangements to restore the system,” he said.
  
  CDO Dwivedi said the administration does not have any grudge with any specific group of government employees and the allegations of biased action were false and fictitious. Dwivedi said the suspension order would be withdrawn against every such penalized person who proves that he/she had submitted application for exemption.
