AURANGABAD: A group of   and the education department have locked horns over the accommodation of teachers termed excess in zilla parishad (ZP) schools across the district with the former moving court to protect their say in any such appointment. 

 While ZP authorities have asked the schools in question to accommodate excess teachers, a section of institutions concerned has refused to accept the order over the issue of merit of staffers. 
 
 The difference between schools and education department has resulted into a blanket hold on salaries of members of teaching and non-teaching staffers with a few institutions. 
 
 The   (SBES), one of the oldest institutions from the region, is facing the issue arising out of accommodation of excess teachers.
 
 Questioning the rationale behind the ZP order related to accommodation of excess teachers, SBES general secretary Dinesh Vakil said, “Sharada Mandir, the first girls’ school in   run by us, has taken a hit due to the unilateral decision, besides posing hardship before staffers.” 
 
 “Though Sharada Mandir has the tradition of all female teachers since its inception, the ZP authorities have allotted us six male teachers out of the total 11 who were termed excess. We were taken aback after such order as it has jeopardised the century old tradition of the school which has strong backing from the parents,” he said. 
 
 Two other schools run by the SBES have been allotted with an excess teacher each by the ZP authorities. While the orders asking for accommodation of teachers were issued in November last year, the SBES till date has refused to comply it following which its salaries for teaching and non-teaching members were withheld. 
 
 After much discussions and deliberations, salaries of Sharada Mandir staffers for November and December have been released, while dues towards January are still awaited. Staffers from two other schools are awaiting salaries since November, SBES authorities said.
 
 SBES joint secretary Shrirang Deshpande said the existing rules do not allow ZP authorities to impose the appointment of excess teachers. “We are not against accommodating excess teachers, but simply want some screening procedure to be followed before taking them into services. Even if private institution like ours receive grant from the government, nobody can encroach upon our fundamental rights. We should have some say in choosing teachers before appointment,” he said. 
 
 SBES president Dinkar Borikar said it was wrong on the part of education department authorities to hold schools at ransom. “We have approached the court to protect our rights and hopeful of getting justice soon. If the education department continue to enforce its diktat that are going to pose risk before the quality of education offered, we could consider denying grants from the government to protect interest of our students,” he said. 
 
 Management of another school said the education department’s stand to accommodate teachers in private aided schools without consultation would not stand in the court of law. “It is an arbitrary decision, which is not going to stand the taste of law. The ZP authorities will have to face rap from the court,” he said.
 
 The staff approval process for the 2015-16 academic year had found over 130 excess teachers in ZP schools that are being accommodated in over a dozen private aided schools from Aurangabad district.
 
 When contacted, R S Mogal, education officer (primary) with the Aurangabad zilla parishad, said the schools in question could have sorted out differences amicably without approaching the court.
 
 “The schools never approached us formally to resolve their grievances related to accommodation of excess teachers otherwise we could have worked out some solution,” he said. Schools in question, however, said they had approached the ZP authorities, but no solution could be worked out. 
 
 Vaijanath Khandke, deputy director of education, Aurangabad region, defended the ongoing process of accommodation of teachers. “Private aided schools can have say in the matter of fresh appointment of teachers, but they do not have any choice in the matter of accommodation of teachers,” he said, adding that the education department would present its stand before the court when the matter comes up for hearing. 
 
 
