NEW DELHI: A 26-year-old fashion designer was battling for life after being stabbed in the neck by her former driver outside the family’s apartment in Malviya Nagar, south Delhi, on Sunday.

 The driver, Anil, had been fired by the woman’s mother, Rekha Lal, a year ago and police suspect he had returned to the house for revenge.
 
 The accused went to the Lal house and asked them to shift their vehicle so that he could drive out another car parked behind it. As the victim,  , was reversing her car, the accused attacked her with a knife. The attack ruptured her wind and food pipes.
 
 Fortunately, two teenagers and a neighbour raised an alarm, forcing the attacker to drop the knife and flee.
 
 The attack was reported around 2pm at the Shivalik Apartments. The youth Anil had approached the girl’s mother Rekha and claimed that he was employed as a driver with a neighbour and needed them to remove their Wagon R car so that he could drive out his employer’s vehicle. It was later learnt that Anil did not have a job and had cooked up the story.
 
 
 
 The victim’s mother said her daughter insisted that she would move the car. “I had picked up the car keys but my daughter insisted that she would go and accompanied Anil downstairs. Soon after, I received a call that my daughter has been stabbed,” said Rekha Lal.
 
 One of the eyewitnesses who had seen Kaveri walk out with Anil said that as soon as the victim entered the vehicle, Anil had pulled out a knife and hid it behind his back. Once she had reversed the vehicle, he entered the vehicle through the window and stabbed her in the throat. She had put up a fight due to which she received several slash injuries on her hands.
 
 “Fortunately two teenagers from the apartment were returning from tuitions at the time and had raised an alarm. He threatened them and then dropped the knife at the spot before fleeing. He had probably tried to slit her throat but failed,” said Harsh Singh, Kaveri’s friend.
 
 The teenagers alerted another neighbor, Prashant, and one of them helped Kaveri lie down in the car. “She gave them her phone and asked them to call her mother before passing out. The teenagers and neighbours drove her to hospital,” said Singh.
 
 It was found that Anil was employed by Rekha and Kaveri last year.
 
 “We did not like his attitude and the way he behaved with me or my daughter. After a fortnight, I had paid him Rs 1200 and asked him to leave. After this I did not see him in the locality. He was referred to us by another driver in the colony,” said Rekha. Rekha says she was taken aback when she saw Anil at their door on Sunday.
 
 “We have registered a case of attempt to murder and have launched a manhunt to nab Anil. We have some definite clues and footages which we are scanning,” said  , additional DCP, south.
 
 Police officers say that a probe revealed that Anil was not employed anywhere in the locality. Cops have not ruled out the possibility of a revenge attack or stalking to be the reason behind the attack.
 
 Family members say Kaveri had graduated from a fashion designing institute in south Delhi and was working at Shahpur Jat. She had quit her job recently and was looking for a new oppurtunity.
 
 Her two elder siblings stay in the United States. Kaveri’s father Madan Lal had passed away two months back.
 
 Police said Kaveri underwent a surgery as both her windpipe and foodpipe were ruptured in the attack and has been kept on life support.
 
