KOCHI: Even as the Kochi bench of   (NGT) turns one on May 23, the functioning of NGT over the l past 11 months couldn't meet the expectation of the public. Only three sittings, one on inaugural day, second and third on August 5 and September 29 respectively, were held in Kochi. A bench of NGT in Kerala was a long standing demand of both environmentalists and lawyers since they had to travel to Chennai frequently to hear the cases they had filed.Only one official, who records petitions, had been appointed in the new l bench. Environmentalists say the administrative E bench from New o Delhi should app of more officials and conduct more sittings, otherwise all efforts took to bring NGT bench in Kochi will turn out to be a damp squib.

 They said that less number of sittings dissuades many from filing cases in the Kochi bench and the existing cases are being transferred to Chennai bench.
 
 When the Kochi bench was about to be inaugurated, there were only five complaints. Later seven cases were transferred to Kochi before inauguration taking the total to 12. As first anniversary of Kochi bench is fast nearing, the number of cases is just 25. “If a sitting is held in Kochi, the judges will have to come down from New Delhi. As per official version, less number of cases is the reason for the lack of sittings in Kochi. In fact, the situation is vice versa,“ said an environmentalist.
 
 The Chennai bench looks into cases from  , Kerala, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. Around 50% of cases filed are from Kerala.
 
 Prof S Seetharaman, another envi ronmentalist in Kochi said, “The NGT should conduct sitting in Kochi at least once a week. Then only we can find a solu tion to the rising environmental issues in the state.“
 
 Some of the complaints filed in Kochi call for urgent intervention of the NGT. K S Ravindran Nair of Kunnathunad panchayat approached the tribunal for protecting a sacred grove and adjacent wet land area which faces threat due to a pro posal for water shed project. During the hearing on inaugural day itself, Justice Swatanter Kumar ordered to maintain status quo in the area and asked to appear before panchayat secretary in person at the next hearing.
 
 In another case, an organization app roached against state government and KSRTC for purchasing 1,500 BS-III buses.
 
 The country switched over to BS-IV emission norms for vehicles from April 1 this year. But the state government purchased BS-III buses just before the BS-IV norms came into place, to cut cost. The tribunal asked the state government and KSRTC to produce all the details of diesel vehicles run by KSRTC and other agencies. It also has been asked to produce details to show that the buses it purchased meet BS IV standards. The third petition is on pollution in the Periyar by the industrial units functioning on the banks.
 
