NEW DELHI: Chief minister Mehbooba   on Friday cautioned against any constitutional tampering with Jammu & Kashmir’s special status while urging Prime Minister   to help her replace the idea of “azadi” with something “better” in Kashmir that remains under the grip of secessionist violence.

 In her first public interaction in the capital since she became the chief minister,   spoke at the inaugural session of a two-day Kashmir conference organized here by BRIEF, a socio-economic research group.
 
 Alluding to her coalition partner BJP’s long-held position that calls for abrogation of Article 370 (even though it has been excluded from the agenda of their alliance), Mehbooba said, “If on the one hand we all agree that Kashmir should be resolved within the parameters of the Indian constitution, why then are we tearing apart the same constitution that granted special status to J&K?”
 
 Referring to Article 35(A) which has been recently challenged by a New Delhi NGO in the Supreme Court, she said any tinkering with it, could have serious implications.
 
 Article 35(A), empowers the J&K legislature to define and accord special rights and privileges to its "permanent residents" and prohibits non-state subjects to enjoy the same rights in the state. The article was executed on the orders of President of India in 1954 instead of Parliamentary legislation. If the Article is scrapped, she said, “No one in the mainstream like National Conference and the PDP who risk their lives, will be able to protect the Indian national flag in Kashmir."
 
 Any changes to J&K’s constitutional relationship with the Union, Mufti said, would not target separatists who have a clear agenda of Kashmir’s secession from India, but would actually weaken the forces that have accepted India in the Valley. Kashmir, she said, was like the idea of India, diverse and plural. “Even on lynchings, Kashmir acted like the rest of the country,” she said with a sense of irony and sadness.
 
 Mufti said some of the debates on TV news on Kashmir were against the idea of India. “My idea of India is Taj Mahal, Nizamuddin Auliya where both Hindus and Muslims come together as a part of syncretic tradition. Majority of people in India have an emotional link with Kashmir. Regardless of what Kashmiri separatists say about India, thousands of students are studying across the country without any concerns of safety,” she said.
 
 Even as there is political distrust, there is huge trust between people, Mufti emphasized adding that idea of India is not complete without the idea of Kashmir. “But we have to replace the idea of separatism, ‘azadi’ with other idea, with better ideas,” she said while making a plea to Prime Minister Modi to rise to the occasion.
 
 “Modi ji is the man of the moment and he can be the man of history. Only he can pull Kashmir out of mess,” she asserted.
 
 The CM said the ongoing NIA investigation and action against the separatists was only an administrative measure that could contain the problem but would not resolve the larger conflict, which needed to be resolved through bilateral dialogue and by improving relations with Pakistan.
 
 
