NASHIK:   of   C Vidyasagar Rao, felicitated   for pursuing the task and achieving 100 percent digital   schools.
 
 A programme was recently organized by education department at Rambhau Mhalgi Prabodhini, where the Governor lauded the efforts of the crusader Harshal Vibhandik, a NRI - investment banker - who led from front to pool resources from the parents and the from his personal friends to transform ZP schools into digital ones. 
 
 The Zilla Parishad chief executive officer of Dhule Zilla Parishad Omprakash Deshmukh, Education Officer Mohan Desle and others efforts were also lauded by the Governor in ensuring the ZP schools were 100 percent digitized. 
 
 "The digitisation of the schools will go in the long run and will emerge as one of the best take steps in education field. The same should also be implemented in the schools that have been adopted by me. The programme will be a major contributor for   campaign initiated by  ," Governor said. 
 
 The state government had adopted 'Pragat Shikhsan' policy in the year 2015 and had appealed to the people and the teachers to take innovative steps to make the education interesting for the children and also the improve the quality of the education. 
 
 As part of the same, an investment banker, hailing from Dhule district, who himself has been the student of ZP school and currently working in United Staes, Harshal Vibhandik picked up the idea of making   available to the common students - those taking lessons in ZP schools. 
 
 Harshal drew up a plan in which he pooled part of resources from all of his friends abroad who were willing to contribute for the project that cost on an average 75,000 per school. Vibhandik went around the district appealing the people to contribute for the digital classroom and the explained to them the benefits of the same. While parents contributed 70 percent, 30 percent contribution was from Vibhandik's friends. 
 
 At times when the parents were very poor, there were instances when teachers, gram sevaks contributed from their funds, grants, or the school committee also contributed for the same and achieved 100 percent digitisation of all 1106 schools in the district. 
 
 
