BENGALURU: Noted British tennis coach  , who is in India for the third edition of the Road To Wimbledon U-14 tennis tournament, urged the   and clubs around the country to invest in top level coaches at the grassroots to help churn out more champions.

 Bloxham, a Lawn Tennis Association Level 5 coach who heads the   programme and has coached the likes of world No. 1 Andy Murray and women's top 10 star   in their junior days, said there was no reason India could not produce more tennis players.
 
 "It is important for clubs here to invest in the best coaches in the beginning. In England, we start with kids at three so by the time they are eight, they know what is expected of them. If you get a kid started at 12, it can almost be impossible to change them. It is vital to invest in the right balls and equipment and to educate parents on not pressuring players," he added.
 
 Bloxham is overseeing the conduct of the Road To Wimbledon tournaments in India as part of an initiative to develop junior tennis in partnership with the AITA. After the first tournament in Pune last week, action is currently under way in the second at the Karnataka State Lawn Tennis Association. The bandwagon next moves to Chandigarh (February 6) and Kolkata (February13). Winners and runners-up in both boys and girls singles events qualify for the Masters Finals in New Delhi (April 10). The winners of this event make the grade for the final of the project at Wimbledon in August.
 
 Bloxham, popular as the master of ceremonies at  , conducted a clinic for parents on Monday and followed it up with a players' clinic and a workshop for coaches here. He stressed the importance of players finding their own identity as athletes and looking for role models within the game.
 
 "Murray has raised the level of what we do in Britain with respect to fitness, diet, focus, training and he still wants more. He is a great role model. The environment is good so youngsters will follow. Konta, despite having no weapons, has had a similar effect for the girls thanks to her determination and hard work," he said.
 
 
