GURUGRAM: Finally, Haryana State Pollution Control Board ( ) seems to have come out its slumber, as it swung into action to stop   in Raisina village, about 45km from Delhi’s Asola Sanctuary.

 The pollution watchdog recently carried out inspections in the affected places and cracked down on individuals/firms that felled trees and built concrete structures in the protected area. 
 
 “We carried out inspections on Saturday and Sunday at all four locations reported by the media, and found illegal construction going on in A Block, which we immediately stopped. We have already sent notices to contractors/agencies involved in the illegal construction in two other places. The fourth case has reached court,” said Vikas, SDO, HSPCB.
 
 Kuldeep Singh, regional officer, HSPCB, said: “We have also strengthened vigilance in the area and will make sure no such activity takes place there in future.”
 
 Construction of a farmhouse was stealthily recommenced in Raisina village, and 200 trees felled to clear nearly 1,000 sq ft of land in the protected area, which falls under Aravali Notification. A 500ft-long and 2ft-high boundary wall has already been built.
 
 As per the Aravali Notification, no construction is allowed in the area. Further, under Section 3(1) and 3(2)(v) of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, and Rule 5(3)(d) of the Environment (Protection) Rules, 1986, cutting of trees and any kind of construction is prohibited in the area.
 
 Colonel Sarvadaman Oberoi, a legal and environmental expert, who wrote to the deputy commissioner last week on the issue, said: “We have produced satellite images of the area that clearly show violation of green norms. The area falls in the deemed forest category, covered by the Forest Conservation Act, 1980. Also, this area falls under Aravali Gair Mumkin Pahar, and is in the natural conservation zone, where construction is banned. We will not tolerate any kind of tree felling and illegal construction in the area.” 
 
 “Unless the entire Aravali hills are given the status of ‘forest’, such problems will continue. Environmentalists will keep raising these issues before authorities, but mindless felling of trees will go on as authorities are not serious enough about protecting the greens,” said Vivek Kamboj, another environmentalist.
 
 
