At 75, technocrat and serial inventor   swears by just one mantra — excitement stems from new knowledge. The entrepreneur feels there’s a need to set up innovation-oriented universities in India and to make students self-learners. In an interview to TOI on his 75th birthday (May 4), Pitroda, also the chancellor of   ( ), lamented that technology and social media aren’t igniting curiosity in youth. Excerpts:

 TDU is said to offer a number of unique courses and all are disruptive in nature. Why is it important?
 
 As part of the  , I had articulated the need for 10 innovation-driven universities across India. Not knowing how to go about it, the ministry of human resource development perceived the idea as something else and funded all kinds of innovation courses. But that was not what I had suggested. My idea was to create 10 TDUs, which would make a difference to education.
 
 For instance, MBA programmes globally have become more about extracting value than creating it. An education at a premier B-school may land a student a high-paying job. But where is the value-addition? I have an idea on creating a series of management programmes which begin with a course on ‘self’, to make students understand who they are before stepping into the field. The programmes would also require a course on leadership, which wouldn’t look at CEOs and chairpersons but the   and Gandhis of the world who defined leadership.
 
 Do you think students in India are ready to stop depending on teachers? Is self-learning possible today? 
 
 Sure. A few weeks ago, I met a friend at the   who told me about a boy she mentored. The boy decided to give up formal studies after class 10. Today, he has authored books on quantum physics and space, which have been prefaced by Nobel laureates. When I asked him what he does now, the boy replied he is a teacher. He doesn’t have a lucrative job at a big company. We need to find motivation from within to be able to do whatever we want. The biggest issue we are dealing with is how to make children in India self-learners. 
 
 You have stated earlier that PM Narendra Modi didn’t pioneer Digital India but Rajiv Gandhi did...
 
 I am not critical of PM Modi being glorified as the pioneer of Digital India. I am merely saying these changes do not happen in just two years. It takes two decades and a lot of blood and sweat. Connecting the whole of India is the result of the infrastructure we built long ago, and the reason digital payment methods are being used by more and more citizens today is because we had initiated them back then.
 
 How have technological advancements impacted the youth in India?
 
 I believe the youth is trapped in social networking websites. They are not using them for knowledge acquisition but mostly for gimmicking. Social networking would be a great educational tool if 50 children got together to have a dialogue on women’s issues, children’s deaths or disaster management. But it has become a means to spread gossip or gain political publicity. The debate on who should take responsibility for what is happening on social media and how youth are using it are global issues which need to be addressed.
 
 At 75, you say there is still so much to learn. Where do you find the inspiration? 
 
 There is so much to learn everywhere, and the inspiration can be found only within us. We cannot seek inspiration from Mahatma Gandhi as he isn’t here anymore. My father studied only till class 4. I was the first one to go to college with no mentor to guide me. If that didn’t stop me from learning then, why should it now? I could have retired 40 years ago and lived on the beach but that’s so boring. Excitement comes from new knowledge – I don’t need parties, dinners or golf to keep me occupied. I’d rather use that time to learn something new.
 
