1. "Various members of the   added vigour into the debate & shared insightful points. I thank the MPs for their participation."

 2. "How can someone see 'SEVA' or any positive virtue in the word SCAM. Sometimes, Mother Earth is also unhappy. There is something very special about Jan Shakti."
 
 3. "We remember how democracy was under threat from 1975 to 1977, when opposition leaders were jailed, newspaper freedom curtailed."
 
 4. "It is due to this 'Jan Shakti' that the person born to a poor family can become the Prime Minister of India." 
 
 5. "There are many people like me, who could not die for the nation during the freedom struggle but we are living for India and serving India".
 
 6. "I was surprised that there were some who made cleanliness also a political issue. Why can't we work together on ushering a Swachh Bharat."
 
 7. "In 2014 elections, one party was campaigning on whether they would give 9 or 12 cylinders. But after coming to power, we asked people whether they were willing to give up subsidy. So many people gave up subsidy."
 
 8. "When Rail budget was first presented, the transport sector was different. Now things are different and a more comprehensive look is needed."
 
 9. "Congress feels only one family got Independence for India. The root of the problem lies there. I had said it from the Red Fort. Every PM has contributed to the nation."
 
 10. "From Day 1, we have been clear- we are ready for a discussion on demonetisation but some were more keen on TV bytes and not debates."
 
 11. "It does not matter how big you are, you will have to give back what belongs to the poor. My fight is for the poor."
 
 12. "We do not see everything from the prism of elections. The interests of the nation are supreme for us."
 
 13. "When can you have an operation? When the body is healthy. The economy was doing well and thus our decision was taken at the right time."
 
 14. "Like Swachh Bharat, the decision on demonetisation is a movement to clean India (from corruption and black money)."
 
 
