 For years, Bhaichand Patel’s friends know only one way to celebrate Valentine's Day – partying in Bhaichand’s garden with friends they may not even meet for the rest of the year. This party has been a ritual for more than a decade. "I’ve been coming to his party for 10 years now. These parties haven’t changed a bit. I think it’s his love for his friends that drives each one of us to attend this party," said Alexandra Reelick, one of the guests. Another guest,  , added, "This is the only party that I attend each year. Once you attend this party, you don’t need to party again as you meet everyone here!” The DJ, who played some '60s rock 'n' roll music, is a regular at these parties and said that his playlist hasn’t changed in four years. "I know guests here, and the kind of music that they love to dance to. So the music remains almost the same each Valentine's Day," said DJ Ravi.

  
  (L-R)Ambika Shukla, Bubbles Sabharwal and VC Burman
 
 
 
  
    listens to   (BCCL)
 
  
  (L-R) Pavan K Varma, Satish Jacob and Mark Tully
 
 
  
  Lets rock ‘n’ roll:   and MK Raina (BCCL)
 
  Though Bhaichand has been hosting this party for years now, only a few of his friends knew the story of how the V-Day bash at his residence became a ritual. So Bhaichand shared with his friends, "I’ve been hosting a party on February 14 since 2001. When I came to Delhi, I was invited to a Valentine’s Day party by one of my female friends, but when she checked with her husband if I could come, he said no. So I decided, to hell with it, I will organise my own party. And now, this is the 16th year that I am hosting this party."
 
  
  VN Dalmia and  
 
 
  
  Anurag and Vesna Jacob
 
 
 
  
  (L-R)Madhu Jain, Yuri and   (BCCL)
 
 
  While most guests were busy shaking a leg on the dance floor, Mani Shankar Aiyar made quite a late entrance, and managed to have a serious discussion for a few second with Suhel Seth, who listened in rapt attention. Among other guests at the party, Rohit Bal also chose his favourite corner at the venue to chat with his friends. The dress code was red and black and most guests turned up in red. When someone asked Gudda why he wasn’t dressed in red, he pointed to the red pocket square in his jacket. "Nothing can replace red on Valentine’s Day, it is the traditional colour for V-Day," said Poonam Bhagat.
 
 
  
  (L-R)Uma Gajapathi Raju, Ramesh Sharma and Sunit Tandon
 
 
 
  
 
 
