LUCKNOW: Wishes have no end and a wish-granting tree should never die. More so if the tree is worshipped as a deity and believed to have roots in the Mahabharata.

 It is for this reason that   will clone Barabanki’s revered Parijaat tree that has stood tall for thousands of years in Kintoor village. The three clone trees will come up on the same campus where devotees come to ask for fulfilment of their wishes from the ‘kalpavriksha’ (the wish-granting tree). 
 
  would work on cuttings and tissue culture for the project with an aim to keep the legacy of the tree alive after it is dead. 
 
 The institute would also conduct a molecular study to find the origin of the tree. Parijaat (Adansonia Digitata) is an African specie with peculiar features. It is a matter of study how it reached Barabanki. 
 
 The age of the tree has always intrigued scientists. “We will ask   to study the age of the tree,” said NBRI senior principal scientist SK Tiwari.
 
 A team of NBRI scientists including director Prof SK Barik visited the site of the tree last week. 
 
 Though there is no written account of its history, it is believed that the tree has existed from the time of the Pandavas. It is said to have been born from the ‘Samudra Manthan’ (churning of ocean) and brought to the earth by Arjun from the garden of Indra for his mother Kunti. According to legend, it was only after Kunti offered Parijaat’s flowers to Lord Shiva that Pandavas won the battle of Mahabharat. 
 
 NBRI has been treating the tree since February 2016 after forest department sought help from the institute. Due to sugary offerings made by devotees to it, the tree was found infected with termites. It also had fungal and bacterial infections. 
 
 NBRI began a chemical treatment and recommended that a biopesticide be applied on the trunk and leaves of the tree. 
 
 “The base of the tree still seems affected and we have suggested ways to the forest department,” said Tiwari. 
 
 The institute would also try to establish a link between this tree and other age-old Parijaat trees in the state. “We know of other old Parijaat trees in Basti and Sultanpur. Besides, there are trees on NBRI and zoo campuses too. We will study where these came from,” said the scientist. 
 
