NEW DELHI: Pilot   started by AAP government in Delhi have transformed the way government schools are now perceived. From the feckless education that they were known for, some of these schools are now as promising as any other — in infrastructure as much as innovative teaching techniques.

 Sarvodaya Co-Ed Senior Secondary School in Sector 9, Rohini, is an example. The institution is the touchstone of the AAP’s vision for school education. "After the government had asked schools two years ago to submit a blueprint for change, my school was selected for the project," said Meena Sharma, principal of the school. "Another six months, and this school will give any private school a run for its popularity."
 
 Srilata Dubey, mother of Shivani Dubey, a Class VIII student with multiple disabilities, believes bringing their daughter to the Rohini institution was the wisest decision they took. "Shivani was never treated well in the earlier MCD school, but here the teachers have been so helpful. The principal too is extremely supportive," she said.
 
 The classes now boast projectors, swanky desks and smart boards, though the IT lab is still in the process of being set up. Keeping the vocational courses in mind, labs have also been created for tourism and food science classes. Facilities for extra-curricular activities have improved. "The basketball court was recently retiled," said Harsh Vachani, a Class IX student. His classmate Geetanjali Goyal cannot stop gushing about volleyball. "The new kit is so good. I am waiting for the exams to get over when I can start playing again," she said.
 
 The extra-curricular activities have been made possible with the involvement of independent artists and NGOs. The school teachers too have taken the initiative to make the school more student friendly. The arts department, for instance, created the Reading Corner. "It has been painted by the students and will soon have couches and bean bags and books and periodicals," revealed Alka Sharma, the project coordinator. The materials and training provided by NGOs have also enhanced the skill of the teachers. For instance, primary teachers now get to use tools to help children sharpen motor skills and learn alphabets using phonetics. 
 
 "Everybody says Sector 9 is one of the best government schools in the area," said Neelam Kanwar, whose daughter studies in Class VII. Her only complaint is that because of the construction work, there is a shortage of rooms that necessitates the school giving students an off on exam days. Principal Sharma said her counterparts in other schools envy her for the changes she has brought about. "I have worked hard, and the government has supported me," she said.
 
 
