Nagpur: Activist Ankita Shah has again knocked the doors of Prime Minister Office (PMO) after not getting any intimation regarding her complaint on air pollution from three new units of Koradi Thermal Power Station (KTPS) which were dedicated to the nation by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on April 14. However, TOI learns that Maharashtra Pollution Control Board has started fresh monitoring. Following TOI’s report on April 16 — ‘Koradi plant low pollution levels unrealistic, Fudged?’, Shah had lodged a complaint with PMO which had sought action through Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). In a letter dated April 17, Paritosh Kumar, Scientist ‘E’ of CPCB, issued directions to the member secretary of MPCB to take appropriate action and send action taken report to Shah within 15 days. On Monday, Shah again wrote to the PMO and also to CPCB and MPCB member secretary complaining that she has not received any communication. MPCB member secretary P Anbalagan told TOI that following the complaint, the board has been monitoring the air quality at the stack (chimney) of KTPS as well as ambient (around the plant) since the last five days. “We are monitoring several parameters and will continue to do so for another ten days. Based on the monitoring results, we will take a decision,” he said. Objecting to the monitoring by MPCB, Shah in her fresh complaint demanded an independent enquiry by CPCB. “The Nagpur office of MPCB is fudging data of air pollution monitoring. While MPCB’s sulphur dioxide emission level from the stack was 5.71 milligrams per normal meter cube, Mahagenco’s average value for the same month was 1283 mg/NM3. Such a huge difference is not possible,” she stated. Anbalagan added that MPCB has “nothing to gain by fudging the data”. “ In fact, we are carrying out fresh monitoring to get accurate data,” he said. While MPCB and Mahagenco’s monitoring results showed low emissions of total particulate matter (TPM) -- a total of hazardous particles suspended in air, TOI during a visit found that villagers residing near the plant were suffering due to fly ash. Stating that lives of thousands were in danger, Shah has appealed to the PMO that KTPS’s bank guarantee should be seized. She further requested that the three new units should be closed until necessary pollution control equipments are installed. As reported by TOI earlier, KTPS has not installed flue gas desulphuriser (FGD) which has been made mandatory by ministry of environment, forests and climate change (MoEFCC).