NAGPUR: Continuing his attack on  , chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said   (NMC) was far better than   (BMC) as far as development is concerned. The CM went on to say he would not show his face in the city if Nagpur did not become a model city of the nation and also world by 2019.

 With just three days to go for campaigning to end, Fadnavis addressed his first public meeting in the city for BJP at Ekatmata Nagar, Jaitala from where the saffron party has always been defeated by Congress in the municipal elections and also falls under his South-West constituency. Later, Fadnavis addressed four more public meetings in the city.
 
 Fadnavis said, “Mumbai is called economic capital of India and is also capital of the state. BMC is richest civic body in the nation. BMC’s budget is Rs 37,000 crore. NMC’s budget is only Rs 1,200 crore. NMC is first civic body in the nation to use 130 million litres per day (MLD) of treated sewage for power production. Another treatment plant of 200 MLD will become functional soon. Another 150 MLD plant is planned. Not a single drop of sewage is treated at Mumbai by the BMC. Here NMC supplies 24x7 water. Sorry state of affairs prevails in BMC,” he said.
 
 NMC is ruled by the BJP for last ten years and BMC by the Sena for last 22 years, he added.
 
 However, Fadnavis seemed to have given responsibility of NMC elections to union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari. He was all praise for Gadkari and projects he had brought to Nagpur.
 
 “We are changing the city under Gadkari’s leadership. Congress grabbed land for personal benefit. BJP is giving land to people along with ownership rights. Gadkari has taken up the challenge to provide jobs to 50,000 people in Mihan. A series of big educational institutions have come to the city. Skill development university is about to be launched. Smart City works including CCTVs, WiFi etc have commenced. Overall city will become a model city not just of the nation but of the entire world by 2019,” the CM said.
 
 Fadnavis added he was busy addressing election campaigns in rest of the State. “I arrived here late for campaigning as people here have faith in us and they would vote for BJP. Citizens had elected me four times. They also showered love on Gadkari in   elections. But people in Ekatmata Nagar seem upset with us. A vote for BJP means a vote for me, Gadkari and Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” he said.
 
 Fadnavis said central government made a new law specially for the city to end zudpi jungle reservation issue. “Reservation of zudpi jungle was laid in many parts in the city. Even railway station is reserved for zudpi jungle. Soon all houses and plots on zudpi jungle land will be regularized,” he said.
 
 At Subhash Nagar’s public meeting, Fadnavis appealed to the people to bring BJP back to power at the NMC. “BJP is in power at the centre and in the state. Works will be hampered and mayor has to run from pillar to post in case BJP does not come to power at NMC,” he said.
 
 BJP continued to highlight RPI (Athawale) as its alliance partner in NMC elections and even picture of union minister of state Ramdas Athawale was on the dais from where CM spoke. A couple of days ago, Gadkari too addressed a public meeting where the same thing happened even though RPI (A) has broken alliance with BJP and warned of filing a petition if the latter continued to project it as an ally.
 
 MLC and BJP’s incharge for NMC elections Anil Sole, Girish Deshmukh, candidates from Ward No 38 Vijay Raut, Maheshwari Patle and Dipika Nitnawre were present on the dais at Ekatmata Nagar.
 
