BENGALURU: Even as he prepares to take to the skies once again through the government's Udan scheme to connect small towns, Captain   is being accused of failing to pay old dues. Mumbai-based   has sued Gopinath, alleging that his firm Deccan Cargo fraudulently and with malafide intention failed to settle its dues to them.

 The Mumbai Metropolitan Magistrate Court has directed the police to investigate the allegations in the complaint under Section 202 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.
 
 Patel Integrated Logistics said that Deccan Cargo failed to settle dues of Rs 1.36 crore after it delivered certain cargo at various destinations at the behest of Deccan Cargo. Areef Patel, vice chairman of the company, said the police station has submitted a report to the Bandra court. “Captain Gopinath has resurfaced for the Udan project, but he has to first return our money. He has to call for a settlement, but he hasn't showed any intention to pay up.The act amounts to criminal breach of trust and cheating under Sections 406 and 420 of the Indian Penal code. The act and actions have caused a huge loss to our company,“ he said.
 
 TOI sent a number of text messages and an email to Gopinath on the matter over the past fortnight, and made several calls to him, but there was no response. Patel has also sent a letter to BS Bhullar, Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), on the matter. “It was to our utter dismay that we found that Gopinath has been given a license to fly again and that too a very prestigious project (Udan).The honourable court has granted the order in our favour. We have also filed a police complaint and a detailed enquiry has been carried out at the police station,“ Patel said.
 
 Gopinath, after the hugely profitable sale of his Air Deccan to Kingfisher in 2007, started a logistics venture called Deccan Cargo & Express Logistics, which never quite took off and was shut down in 2013.
 
 Patel Integrated Logistics, which provides services in surface transport, door-to-door express cargo service and onboard couriers and freight forwarding, was among those providing services to Deccan Cargo. Gopinath is scheduled to offer a number of short-distance services under the Udan scheme from July , under the brand Air Deccan.
 
