NEW DELHI: Giving top priority to safety of women in the capital, police commissioner Amulya Patnaik has asked officers of   for Women and Children (SPUWAC) and deputy commissioners of all districts to visit schools and colleges to make girls aware of the initiatives taken up by  .

 Patnaik has also asked officers to expedite the lighting of the 2,279 dark spots identified earlier. Night patrolling on 179 vulnerable routes, where PCR calls from women are frequent, is going to be intensified.
 
 For better clarity on laws regarding crimes against women, the police chief has introduced a booklet so that investigating officers are aware of the action to be taken in such crimes. The officers will educate girls about the all-new Himmat app, which has been re-launched with new features. The app is available in Hindi across platforms (Android and iOS) on smartphones.
 
 “Women in distress mostly blame themselves for the incident. But with interactions, we aim to educate them about how they can take charge and help themselves. The new app has a list of Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) that will help women educate themselves and their near ones,” said Delhi Police spokesperson Dependra Pathak.
 
 The police chief had asked officers to make registration on the app less cumbersome. Many women had complained that registration was time consuming. “In the older version, a user needed to fill long forms. Now they just need to tick their preferences,” Patnaik said.
 
 There were also complaints that the app’s browser often turning non-responsive when clicked several times during a panic situation. The app also stalled cheaper smartphones with slow processors. “The problems have been done away with now. It’s easy to use now,” said a senior police officer.
 
 The app, which can be downloaded from the Delhi Police website, required users to enter two mobile numbers for use during emergencies. A person in distress can press the power button or simply shake the phone to send an SOS to the Police Control Room. The app captures audio and video and transmits it to the control room. An SMS alert is then transmitted to patrol cars.
 
