GANDHINAGAR: Will he? Will he not? The suspense over the political future of   and   (LOP)   may end on July 21 his 77th birthday. “Wait for that day,” Vaghela told reporters on Tuesday, while informing that he will hold his birthday celebrations in a grand manner at Mahatma Mandir in Gandhinagar. The   said the event will be called “Sam-Samvedna Samarambh”.

  
  Soon after Vaghela’s announcement, Gujarat Congress core committee members including former Gujarat Congress presidents Arjun Modhwadia and Siddharth Patel, national spokesperson and former leader of opposition (LOP) Shaktisinh Gohil, former MP Jagdish Thakor, senior MLA, Shailesh Parmar, and several other Congress leaders rushed to meet him at his bungalow on the outskirts of Gandhinagar.
 
 With less than five months before Gujarat goes to polls, the Congress core committee has already warned Vaghela to refrain from indulging in “anti-party” activities.
 
 Vaghela told reporters, “My well-wishers were insisting that I should celebrate my birthday. They have organised a grand event on July 21 at Mahatma Mandir in Gandhinagar. As LOP I have also invited all Congress, NCP and JDU MLAs. The celebration will be followed by my address.” 
 
 Back in 1995, Vaghela, who was then with the BJP, had withdrawn from the race for CM when BJP government came to power for the first time. Within a year, he had engineered a split in the BJP and occupied the CM’s chair with the support of Congress.
 
 A very senior Congress leader told TOI on condition of anonymity, “We told Vaghela that whatever he plans to do on July 21 will benefit BJP if it is anti-party. The Congress high command has taken strong note of what he said in June.” 
 
 On June 24 Vaghela had assumed an aggressive pose and publicly criticized the Congress leadership in Delhi for the party's complete lack of poll preparedness — categorically warning that Gujarat Congress was running on “suicidal mode” by failing to align with issues like Patidar, dalit and OBC unrests ahead of 2017 assembly polls in Gujarat. 
 
 
