MADURAI: The Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry ( ) has welcomed the  's decision to exempt 80 essential  , including cereals, foodgrains, milk and curd, from the tax. 

 TNCCI president Jegatheesan, in a press release, said that the apart from exempting essential commodities, there has been a proper fitment of other items under the various tax rates of 5%, 12%, 18% and 28% under GST. "It is laudable that rates have been finalised only after due consideration that tax incidence on commodities by and large will not exceed the existing combined tax incidence of excise duty and state VAT," he said. As a result prices of many commodities will come down under the   regime.
 
 However, council has objected to the stipulation that for tax exemption, cereals and food grains like wheat, barley, maize (corn), rice, millet as well as flour, aata, maida, besan etc should not be in unit container and bear a registered brand name or otherwise it would attract 5% tax. It said that it was critical that these commodities packed in unit container and bearing a registered brand name should also be granted tax exemption. "Otherwise they could not compete with exempted suppliers who supply these goods with unregistered brand name without conforming to the standards prescribed under the FSSA Act," it noted.
 
 Suppliers have to be motivated to go in for registered brand names to ensure quality of the products to the consuming public, it said. "As far as services are concerned, we from TN Chamber insisted with the GST Council that tax rate under GST for services should be brought down to 12% from the present 15% under Service Tax Act, instead of raising it to 18%, as it would abnormally escalate the prices of all commodities including essentials," said the chamber. 
 
 "It is a pleasant surprise that the GST Council after meticulous observation finalized a 4-tier tax slab for services also at 5,12, 18 and 28 percentage, so that most of the essential services would be placed at 5% and 12% tax rates under GST. Further it is an added advantage to the traders who can take input tax credit on supply of services also, along with supply of goods which is denied under the present Service Tax Act, if those traders are not providing any taxable services," the press release added.
 
 
