HYDERABAD: Close to four years after   launched a massive drive against the use of tinted glass/black films on cars, the   are back on city's roads. Reason: Shift in focus to other special drives, say observers. 

 While the count of offenders had dropped drastically soon after the launch of the campaign - from a few thousand to just a handful - the numbers, over the last two years, are seen rising yet again. The total number of cases registered in 2015 that stood at 456, shot to 726 in 2016. In the first two months of 2017 alone, 41 fresh cases have been booked against offenders.
 
 The slow comeback of the black film, incidentally, is a clear  , which in 2012 categorically banned its use. In the case of tinted glass, the apex court guidelines specified that they must have at least 70 percent visibility in front and rear and at least 50 percent visibility on the sides. The guidelines were enforced following an increase in instances of vehicles with tinted glasses/black films being used for heinous crimes like sexual assault, kidnapping, etc. 
 
 Tinted glasses/black-films, which are also known as sun-filters, are used for multiple reasons -- like keeping the interiors of the car cool during the summer season and avoiding direct exposure to sunlight. 
 
 Interestingly, most vehicles in the city found sporting the opaque film/glass are luxury cars owned by people with deep pockets. "Majority of the cases now being booked are against bureaucrats, politicians or vehicles from other states that continue to flout norms," said Vinod Kumar Kanumala, traffic and road safety expert. Blaming the traffic cops for turning a blind eye to this violation, he added, "The number of cases being booked are less as compared to the number of vehicles on the city roads. That's because cops are focussing on some other special drive and have completely forgotten about this one." 
 
 The rise in count of violation, meanwhile, has brought cheer to car accessory showroom owners who report a huge surge in demand for these 'cool' glasses/films. "Tinted glass for most Indian car models are easily available. There is a huge rush for changing from normal glass to tinted glasses, especially with the onset of summer," said manager of a showroom in Secunderabad.
 
 Most of them are selling them as 'RTA approved black films'. "These are not easy to identify and are light coloured. Depending on the quality of the film, the price ranges from anywhere between Rs 1,500 and Rs 4,000. We get five to eight cars each day," said  , owner of another car accessory outlet. 
 
