CHENNAI: After a gap of eight years, Tamil Nadu government announced Best Film and Best Actor awards, besides other categories such as music, script and playback singer, for years starting from 2009 to 2014. 

 A single government order (GO), issued on Thursday, had a list of awards under about 30 categories for each year.
 
 For 2009, ‘Pasanga’ was chosen as the Best Film, Karan as Best Actor for his role in ‘Malayan’, and Padmapriya as Best Actress for ‘Pokkisham’. Vasanthabalan was chosen as Best Director for Angaadi Theru. For the year 2010 Maina was chosen as Best Film, with Vikram bagging the Best Actor award for his role in Ravanan, and   being selected as Best Actress for Mynaa. Prabhu Solomon was Best Director for Mynaa.
 
 For 2011, Vaagai Soodavaa has been selected as Best Film, and its pair Vimal and Iniya bagging the Best Actor and Best Actress awards respectively. Best Director award for the year, however, went to A L Vijay for his film Deiva Thirumagal.
 
 For 2012, Vazhakku Enn 18/9 was chosen as Best Film whereas Jeeva got Best Actor award for Needhaane En Pon Vasantham, and   as Best Actress for Kumki and Sundarapandian. The Best Director award went to   for Vazhakku Enn 18/9.
 
 For the year 2013, Ramanujan was selected as Best Film, and lead pair of the film   – Arya and Nayantara – were selected for Best Actor and Best Actress awards. The Best Director award went to Ram for his Thanga Meengal.
 
 For 2014, Kutram Kadithal got the Best Film award, while the Best actor award went to Siddharth for his role in Kaaviya Thalaivan, and Best Actress award went to Aishwarya Rajesh for her role in Kaakkaa Muttai. The Best Director award went to Raghavan for Manjappai.
 
 By a separate GO, a total of 149 small budget films were chosen for government incentives for starting from 2007 to 2014. A total of 422 films had applied for the incentive, said the GO.
 
 As for television serials, the GO said awards Best Serial, Best Actor and Best Technicians had been selected for years from 2009 to 2014.
 
