I was a stupid teenager then, almost unaware of outside world, well protected under my parents’ shadow. Had no idea about how life's going to turn out for me. But that day something different happened, I met him for the first time at college. He was my senior. We chatted for a while and parted. He took my number and then series of endless talks and meetings began. It was the first time, I got so close to someone in this way. My world began to change by the day. When he kissed me for the first time, I was spellbound. I loved that feeling of falling in love. The frequency of our meetings increased so much that it was difficult to imagine a day without him. A year later, the day of separation came- he left college to pursue his career, leaving me behind crying alone at the railway station. He left with no promise.
 
  Our daily talks became weekly and sometime later, we almost lost touch with each other. For me, he was my first love and I was never able to forget him completely, but since life moves on, so did I. Unaware about the fact that my fate had different plans for me, I came to Pune to join a software firm and there our paths crossed once again. Old forgotten love got revived again and this time, I surrendered myself totally to him, thinking he is the one for me, but I was so wrong. I came face to face with reality soon, this world is cruel. Everything was good till I asked for a commitment. Everything changed suddenly, this guy was no more the one I fell in love with. I was just another girl for him! I cried my lungs out, spent so many sleepless nights. When I questioned him about whether he loved me? He answered, “I don't love you anymore.” He left me once again, this time to join a new company in Bangalore.
  
  Surprisingly, when he reached the new city, he started calling me out of his loneliness. He said, “I can't marry you because of my family constraints, but I love you.” I was blindly in love, I believed him once again. He started coming to meet me from Bangalore to Pune, every now and then. Seven years passed by with so much uncertainty about our future together, but I didn’t give up on him. I never asked about our much impending marriage, as I was sure he wanted to spend his life with me after spending almost a decade together. But I had little idea that behind my back, he was looking for another girl to get married to. Meanwhile, his US visa got approved and before leaving for US, he came to meet me and told me he is getting married this January. All of sudden, the ground below my feet slipped away and I lost my senses. This time, he was firm on his decision and he left me in tears, to never come back. It took me a while to stand on my feet once again. But then, life is much better and brighter for me now, as it used to be when I was with him. Now, I never fall in love, but only rise in it. I’ve learnt to love other people in my life, who’ve always been there for me, but I never noticed them earlier. I have better plans for my future now. I smile more often as I used to, I have realized one thing- bad things happen in life for good reasons!
  
  -
 
  
  
