CHENNAI: It’s the season of giving. And as the city gears up to celebrate  , it’s not just NGOs, corporates and individuals who are opening their purse strings. This year, a large section of the underprivileged have also come up with plans to lend a helping hand to those who are worse off.

 Women and children from 40 slums across the city have come up with different plans of action. “Children have decided to collect a handful of sugar and a fruit from households in their area to donate to old age homes nearby,” says S Suganthi of   for Street and Working Children.
 
 Women from Royapuram plan to raise money to buy umbrella stands for women street vendors to give them some respite from the blazing sun. “In Thiruvottiyur, women’s self help groups are planning to give a sumptuous meal to the homeless women and children, and also distribute saris and notebooks. In Ennore a cleanliness drive has been planned,” says Suganthi.
 
 Daan Utsav is celebrated across India from October 2 to 8, but in the city the celebrations will begin from October 1. “A Seva Mela will be held on October 1 and 2 at the Lady  , where 75 NGOs will participate. People can interact and donate for a cause,” says restaurateur M Mahadevan. The annual Battle of the Buffet, which brings together top chefs from the city to cook up a storm for charity, will also be held on October 1 at the school.Organised by Chennai Mission and CIOSA, the event raised Rs5.68 crore last year.
 
 As part of Daan Utsav, various groups are planning to give railway stations a facelift, and Koyambedu vendors also plan to donate vegetables and fruits. With the festival of lights round the corner, Bhoomika Trust is planning to brighten up their Diwali for the field staff of Chennai Metro Water and Sewerage Board, and appealing to people to donate money to buy new clothes. 
 
 “They did great work during the 2015 Chennai floods. This is a way of thanking them,” says Jayendra Panchapakesan, founder-trustee, Bhoomika Trust, which works for disaster relief.
 
