Ahmedabad: Dr Murtuza Tunvar, an assistant professor of Dantiwada Agriculture University’s Deesa College, has braved heavy rains and water inundation to reach home many times. 

 But what he experienced on Monday was nothing less than a nightmare. It was the worst floods he had seen in Banaskantha in the last four decades. He was forced to abandon his car on the road and take shelter at a farmhouse in a village to escape nature’s wrath.
 
 “My brother’s house in Dangia village is just about 13 km from Deesa government agriculture polytechnic of DAU where I have been teaching for the last 30 years. It was raining heavily but I was confident of reaching there like I have done in previous monsoons,” Tunvar said talking to TOI.
 
 “Though it was raining heavily I started in my car from Deesa at 4pm. My family members told me to avoid Chandisar-Deesa road as it was heavily flooded due to an overflowing lake. I was advised to take the highway and come via Kushkal village, which is about 2.5km from Dangia,” he said.
 
 “Till then, I was not scared despite the fact that it was raining cats and dogs. But the moment I entered Kushkal, I got the scare of my life. The single-lane road connecting Dangia was not visible as the flood waters were literally charging towards me. The farms on either side of my car were completely flooded and I was surrounded by water on all sides. Had I taken this road, I would have been swept away by the current. This was unseen before,” he said.
 
 Tunvar then immediately abandoned his car on the road and walked through the waist-high water to reach the nearby farm of Akbar Sindhi, who too is a native of Dangia at around 8pm. “His family was also stranded at the farm and were only praying to God that flood waters shouldn’t submerge their house.” 
 
 “I finally felt a bit safer here. But there was nothing to eat at the farm as the family had only come to check out on their cattle. There was only milk and for 10 good hours we only had 3-4 cups of tea,” the professor said.
 
 In the morning, they called a tractor from Dangia once the flood waters receded a bit and managed to reach home. 
 
 
