CHENNAI: The inaugural four-nation   will be held in Chennai from August 17-27, the   ( ) confirmed on Tuesday. The annual invitational tournament will feature St Kitts and Mauritius in addition to India while a confirmation is awaited on the fourth team.

 "The 10-day tournament will be held at the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium in Chennai from August 17. Initially, Afghanistan had assured us of their participation. But they are facing some logistical issues and won’t be visiting. So we are yet to confirm the fourth team in the tournament," AIFF general secretary   told TOI on Tuesday.
 
 As reported by TOI, AIFF zeroed in on Chennai after Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Goa, Guwahati and Kerala were ruled out because of playing hosts to the under-17 World Cup.
 
 The last time an international football tournament was held in Chennai was back in 1993 when it hosted the Nehru Cup. It has also been a decade since the Indian team played a match in the city when they drew 1-1 against Iraq in a Pre-Olympics match.
 
 The Champions Cup, aimed to replace the Nehru Cup, which was last held in 2012, will be held in round-robin format. The Stephen Constantine-coached Indian team will also have a week-long camp in the city prior to the tournament. "Following the round-robin format, the top two teams will play in the final. We are also planning to have India’s preparatory camp from August 11 in Chennai," Das said.
 
  (TFA) president Jesiah Villavarayar said preparations are in full swing after it emerged that a lot of work needs to be done on the Nehru Stadium pitch which is in really poor state after hosting as many as 120 matches of the Chennai Football Association League from February to April earlier this year. 
 
 "The stadium has a capacity of 35,000 and its facilities are of international standard. The only concern is the condition of the ground. But renovation work is in full swing and the AIFF is closely monitoring the work. Since the training facilities at the Nehru Park are of the highest order, we have identified it for India’s camp. We are looking at some other training grounds where others teams can practice," Villavarayar said.
 
