PATNA: The Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL), which distributes LED bulbs in Bihar in coordination with the  , on Thursday launched the distribution of 20W LED tubelights and   fans in the state.

 Under the   by Affordable LEDs and Appliances for All (Ujala) scheme, consumers can buy the LED tubelights for Rs 230 each and the energy-efficient fans for Rs 1,150 each. The   of such fans is Rs 2,000 to 3,000 each.
 
 The LED tubelights and fans were launched at a state government function organised for CM Nitish Kumar to lay the stone, commission and inaugurate schemes worth of Rs 2,650.51crore of the energy department.
 
 According to official sources, the LED bulbs, tubelights and fans can be purchased by power consumers from the billing counters of the power distribution companies of the energy department across the state on furnishing their electricity bill and an identity card or address proof. 
 
 The Ujala scheme is being implemented by EESL, a joint venture under the administration of Union ministry of power. EESL officials said the public sector undertaking planned to distribute 50 lakh 20W LED tubelights and two lakh energy- efficient fans in Bihar, benefitting around 10 lakh consumers.
 
 The usage of these many energy efficient tubelights and fans is expected to lead to an annual energy saving of over 24crore kWh, and a monetary saving of Rs 83 crore in consumers electricity bills. 
 
 EESL officials said over 1.28 crore LED bulbs have been distributed in Bihar since its launch in March last year, leading to annual energy saving of Rs 167 crore kWh and a saving of Rs 669 crore in consumer electricity bills. 
 
 The cost of   was reduced to Rs 70 from December 1 last year. At the time of its launch in March last year, it was sold for Rs 100, which was reduced to Rs 85 in mid-April. 
 
 The sources said EESL was also planning to introduce LED televisions soon. Though officials refused to divulge details, a source said the LED television would be sold at a subsidised rate of Rs 2,000 to Rs 2,500. An order for around one lakh such TVs for Bihar has already been placed.
 
