CHANDIGARH: Already struggling with  ,   government’s elementary  , secondary education, police and irrigation departments would be witnessing maximum number of retirements this year.

 To find solution to the situation, a cabinet sub-committee headed by finance minister Captain Abhimanyu met for the second time on Wednesday to deliberate on increasing the retirement age of government employees from 58 to 60 years. It came out that as many as 39 officers and employees of various state government departments are on service extension post retirement as of now.
 
 Due to the ongoing tussle with the finance minister, health minister  , who is also a member of the committee, stayed away from the meeting on Wednesday also. However, minister of state for social justice and empowerment Krishan Kumar Bedi was present.
 
 After the meeting, Abhimanyu informed that there is a need to come out with clear cut rules so that the departments concerned could grant extension to employees at their level as per the need. But he said there should be such mechanism that service extension should be granted after going through employee’s service record and at the same time it should not hamper other employees’ promotion prospects.
 
 Citing an example, the finance minister said in a discussion with DGP B S Sandhu, it came out that maximum number of vacant posts in the police department is at the level of investigating officers which hampers the investigation process. The minister also said the committee also discussed about fixing the tenure of head of the departments.
 
 The committee also went through the recruitment process being followed by six states for preparing draft rules for the transparent recruitment of class IV employees keeping in view their socio-economic condition. Abhimanyu added that Haryana staff selection commission and Haryana public service commission is in the process of filling up 50,000 vacant posts.
 
 Next meeting of the committee has now been scheduled for June 14 in Chandigarh.
 
 
