PUNE: The   finally got a full-time chairman-cum-managing director after a long wait of eight months. The state government on Saturday appointed Navi Mumbai municipal commissioner   as its new chief. 

 Earlier on Friday, Mundhe was abruptly transferred without being assigned any post. Demands for his transfer from Navi Mumbai started after his crackdown on land encroachers and illegal structures, including some owned by corporators. 
 
 In July last year, former   CMD Abhishek Krishna was transferred as   of Nashik. Krishna had served in PMPML for less than a year. The government had then appointed Dhule district collector Annasaheb Misal as head of the transport utility. But Misal never took charge saying he was on medical leave. 
 
 At present, Pune municipal commissioner Kunal Kumar is holding additional charge of PMPML. Over the years, PMPML chiefs have been transferred frequently. In the last eight years, the transport body has had no a full-time CMD. As a result, its functioning has been badly affected. 
 
 Jugal Rathi of PMP Pravasi Manch said the city is heading towards a traffic disaster as the number of private vehicles are increasing exponentially. “Successive state governments have been neglecting PMPML by not appointing competent officers to head the transport utility. With a fleet of 1,400 buses, it is catering to a population of 50 lakh in Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and fringe areas which is not enough.” 
 
 Welcoming the appointment, Rathi said, “The PMPML is in extremely bad condition. Considering Mundhe’s track record, he will be able to bring in discipline and run the public service efficiently. Mundhe should be allowed to complete a full term of at least three years and should be given a free hand in taking commuter-friendly decisions. Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad have been included in the smart city project and, therefore, having good public transport is essential.”
 
 Qaneez Sukhrani of Association of Nagar Roads Citizens Forum, said, “Punekars should be glad with the appointment of Mundhe, an upright officer who can clean the cobwebs and the deep-rooted rot that is ailing the transport body. Under pressure from private vehicle manufacturers and their lobbies, for obvious reasons, the PMPML has never been allowed to function as an independent body. Mundhe should be allowed to serve a full term of three years. The forum expects that other posts of senior IAS officers in Pune to be filled soon. It is unfortunate and disappointing that the CM’s office is not taking Pune seriously by appointing senior IAS officers in line with the level of growth and development in the city.’’
 
 During an interaction with PMPML officials in January, several commuters had complained about the inefficient bus services. The citizens were interacting about the transport body’s business plan, both short term and long term. Commuters said the buses were unclean, damaged, and have frequent breakdowns. However, the commuters are yet to hear about the business plan.
 
