CHENNAI: Even as the Women in Blue faltered at the final hurdle against England on Sunday, there has been an overwhelming support for   and Co for their stupendous show. And now, there's a call to build on the success.

 Harmanpreet Kaur, who single-handedly demolished Australia with a sensational 115-ball 171 no in the semi-final, was the first Indian woman to feature in Women's Big Bash league (WBBL) in Australia in 2016. And Mithali admitted that it was Kaur's knowledge of the Australian cricketers and the latter's experience of playing in the WBBL that helped her come up with the hurricane knock.
 
 Many former Indian men's cricketers and a few women cricketers believe it's time an IPL-style T20 league is conducted separately for women in India.
 
 Even before Mithali's girls stormed into the summit clash, former India fielding coach   asked: "Why not a T20 league for women in India?"
 
 "Australia has a league, so why not (have one)? India is a big country and it will help us find more women cricketers. There is enough money in the system to support a league and the girls have done well. I have been following the tournament and they did very well," said Robin, who is an assistant coach with the Mumbai Indians.
 
 N Niranjana, who was part of the Indian women's team during the 2016 Down Under trip, feels women "have the potential" to produce a quality T20 league.
 
 "This is the right time for an IPL-style league for us. This World Cup has changed people's perception about our cricket. The way young boys get inspired by a Sachin or a Kohli or a Sehwag, there are a lot of admirers for   and Mithali.
 
 "This World Cup saw women clearing the boundaries convincingly. The standard of batting has improved to another level. Women do have powerful game. All I can say is we can definitely give 60% of what men give (power packed game and entertainment). People have really started liking women's cricket and there is support from all quarters. We girls have the potential to give a good IPL-style league," 28-year-old Niranjana told TOI.
 
 Former India A women's cricketer K Hemamalini, who is now the coach of the TN women's team, mentioned a T20 league for women would produce many more Kaurs.
 
 She stressed that women's game now is now played at a "faster pace and with more power". "Imagine a girl striking 76 metre or 78 metre sixes. Kaur, Blackwell (Australia) - these girls have changed the nature of women's cricket. The BCCI has played a great role in making things systematic for women's cricket. Be it training or fitness tests, there is a system. You see a lot of sliding and stopping, throwing in one motion - the women's game has improved so much," added Hemamalini.
 
 Former India opening batsman Sadagopan Ramesh, who was doing commentary for the women's final, believes women need to play more T20s to bring more aggression into their game. "The manner in which Harmanpreet went about destroying Australia was stunning. However, I feel the standard of bowling has to improve a bit. Women need to play more of the shorter version to showcase their aggressive brand of cricket, which they are capable of," said the 41-year-old.
 
 Although former India keeper and selector Saba Karim said an IPL-style league for women would be good, he mentioned that BCCI's top priority at the moment should be to improve women's cricket at the grassroot level.
 
 "The focus now should be on making domestic cricket more robust for women's cricket. IPL became successful after a number of years of hard work that went into improve domestic cricket for men. It's the same with women's Big bash. They have good system at the grassroots level. That has to be done with regards to women at the age category level," said Karim.
 
