Mumbai: Two days after seven Amarnath   were killed in a terror attack in Southern Kashmir, the flow of visitors to the holy shrine does not seem to have reduced. But given the logistics involved in reaching this far-out destination, at 3,800 feet altitude in Jammu & Kashmir, it will be at least a week before the impact can be assessed. 

 Statistics from the   show that on Tuesday, a day after the attack, 10,926 pilgrims took ‘darshan’ in the cave. Though the number is a tad lower than Monday’s 11,921 pilgrims, the trend across the past two weeks shows that the numbers range from 8,000-17,000 (on July 2, a Sunday). “There have been no cancellations so far,” said Rajan Saigal, chairman, northern region, Travel Agents’ Association of India. But given that it takes at least four days of a to-and-fro hike to reach the cave, it would be too early to conclude that there has been no impact on pilgrim traffic to   post-attack. “From Delhi, pilgrims either take a train to Jammu or a flight to Srinagar, and from there they reach the base camp in Pahalgam. It takes 2-3 days of trekking to reach the cave from the base camp,” he said. So people from cities like Mumbai and other parts of the country, who have already reached Delhi, may decide to continue with the journey. “If the cancellations have to come, it would be from those who have not begun their journey, those who are scheduled to travel next week or so,” he added.
 
 At the board, there is no talk of cancellations. “The bus that was attacked was not registered with us. Moreover, our buses don’t ply at that hour. We have not had cancellations so far,” said an official. 
 
 The 40-day yatra began on June 29 and so far, 1.57 lakh pilgrims have had darshan at the holy cave. Though security is tight, with thousands of personnel from the state police,   and   manning the route, it was not the first time that terrorists have targeted pilgrims. In 2006, a grenade was hurled at a bus carrying pilgrims, which left five injured. Between 2000-02, 45 Amarnath pilgrims were killed in terror attacks. But since the past 10 years, there have been no attacks till the July 10 incident.
 
