PORVORIM: Trying to settle the state’s ruffled feathers after the chaotic government formation process, chief minister  , who also holds the finance portfolio, made an attempt to pacify allies in the state budget for 2017-18 but departed from his 2012 promise of keeping petrol prices under Rs 60 per litre. He also made it a little costly for people to guzzle beer, taking the fizz out by increasing it by Rs 2-5.
 
  He enhanced the rate of VAT on motor spirit to 15% from 7%, pushing the petrol prices beyond the Rs 60-per-litre mark to touch Rs 65. “It is time to review this measure, in view of the enhanced spending and provisions made for various existing and new initiatives in the budget,” he said.
  
  Parrikar also marginally enhanced the excise duty on beer and with a Rs 1 lakh licence fee imposed on spirit additives, prices of whiskies may also go up a notch.
  
  Though Parrikar may have shied away from borrowing Fatorda MLA Vijai Sardesai’s slogan ‘Goem, Goemkar and Goemkarponn’, the budget was a subtle nod in that direction.
  
  From the appointment of a consultant for the development of Porvorim and celebration of the golden jubilee of Opinion Poll to the near 40% jump in allocation to PWD, which is under MGP’s Sudin Dhavalikar, Friday’s Budget has coalition compulsions written all over it.
  
  In the Parrikar-led government, BJP has 13 MLAs in the House of 40. Goa Forward and MGP, the other two BJP allies, have three members each. The coalition also has three independents supporting it.
  
  Dhavalikar has repeatedly criticised   ( ) during his earlier tenure as the corporation used to corner most of the infrastructure projects that should have gone to PWD.
  
  Parrikar appears to have heard this and in the budget announced that he would streamline GSIDC portfolio to niche projects.
  
  In an interview with TOI on March 18, Sardesai had referred to the Opinion Poll while trying to define what Goemkarponn meant to him. Parrikar appears to have voiced the same thoughts in the budget when he said, “My government will celebrate this golden jubilee year of Opinion Poll with various activities organised throughout the year with the emphasis on Goan identity till January 16, 2018.”
  
  Given that the BJP government is dependent on its allies for its survival, the party’s MLAs have found themselves out in the cold during the allocation of ministries. Calangute MLA Michael Lobo, who helped bring BJP and Goa Forward together, along with Curchorem MLA Nilesh Cabral have openly indicated their desire for ministerial berths that has gone unheeded so far.
  
  Parrikar seems to have made an attempt to assuage their concerns in the budget by earmarking funds and development projects in their respective constituencies.
  
  Even as he appeared to have succumbed to coalition pressures, Parrikar has managed to take a leaf from Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas’ mantra.
 
 In an ode to Modi, Parrikar has used slogans to infuse life and sentiment into Goa. Whether it is garbage-free Goa 2020 or first beggar-free state in the country, the budget attempts to give new direction to the state, which many argued was drifting.
  
  Besides the popular schemes and catch phrases, Parrikar has also got down to brass tacks. “I have noticed that there is a lot of lethargy and laxity in governance. Lethargic government servants will get an opportunity to take voluntary retirement under a special scheme,” Parrikar said in a tacit acceptance that service delivery remained a critical issue for citizens.
  
  In order to tighten and streamline the bureaucracy, Parrikar has proposed to implement the Goa (Right of Citizens to Time-Bound Delivery of Public Services) Act 2013 ensuring time-bound service.
  
  Parrikar has also sought to address Goa’s nearly non-existent public transport by announcing a comprehensive mobility plan for extensive connectivity in the state through a mix of regular buses, hybrid and electric buses.
  
  In the budget, the former defence minister prioritised the education, health and infrastructure sectors and promised to “see that all public assets in these sectors are taken up through a well thought of mechanism and an adequate provision has been for this during this financial year.”
  
  In his statement, while projecting a 9% increase in the budget outlay at Rs 16,027.01 crore against Rs 14,694.17 crore in 2016-17, Parrikar said that it was a revenue surplus budget of Rs 202.48 crore. For the 2016-17 fiscal, the government had announced a budget surplus of Rs 158.82 crore but this has been revised to a surplus of Rs 48.95 crore.
  
  Annual earnings for 2017-18 are estimated at Rs 9,522.63 crore and expenditure of Rs 9,320.15 crore.
  
  "I have not compromised on implementation of any welfare scheme or on the infrastructure while making present budget provisions but still controlled the increase in revenue expenditure at bare minimum,” Parrikar said.
