PUNE: The   has fallen by more than 12% since December 2016.

 In February 2017, online transactions fell by 2% from January, which had fallen by 10% since December. Data for the first 19 days of March further underlines this progressive fall. 
 
 So, despite the government’s focussed push, why are digital transactions falling? Especially in the easiest-to-use and most ubiquitous channel of digital payments – the   (PoS) terminals, also known as swipe machines.
 
 Reason: Some banks continue to charge a transaction fee despite the government’s diktat to spare this for purchases below Rs 2,000. Shopkeepers are also seen warning customers of this fee if they use a card. 
 
 Cash, which accounted for about a bulk of transaction value in the country prior to November 8, 2016 when the government demonetised Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes is back in circulation. RBI data shows that 70% of pre-demonetisation circulation levels have been achieved. Senior bankers say that this spurt in cash transactions has meant fewer digital transactions.
 
 Transactions at PoS terminals, both in terms of volume and value, have dropped consistently since December. 
 
 According to government data, 21.9 crore   have been issued under the Jan-Dhan scheme – all capable of carrying out transactions at PoS terminals. In all, till January 2017, 81.79 crore debit cards and 2.88 crore credit cards have been issued by all banks in India. 
 
 Despite this, PoS transactions have dropped to 137.1 million in the first 19 days of March, compared to the 186.9 million in the first 19 days of December.
 
 The government assumed pushing card transactions at fuel stations might be a great way to promote digital payments, and announced a 0.75% discount for those using cards to purchase fuel. 
 
 However, the charges associated with debit and credit card transactions did not go away. As cost started to outweigh the benefits, customers smartly curled back to using cash.
 
 On a Rs 200 fuel refill, the transaction fee, at an average 2.5%, works out to Rs 5 – hardly a benefit even if one sets-off the Rs 1.5 discount (at 0.75%) that one gets for card transactions.
 
 Shopkeepers and merchants say the banks have not reduced any charges for them, and so it continues to be a burden for them to use PoS terminals. Banks say that they are not sure if the government will reimburse the cost if they allow free card transactions, and so they are not going ahead with the diktat.
 
 Experts say that unless the government pushes this through incentives and monitors it, it is likely that card usage at PoS terminals will eventually go back to the pre-demonetisation figures.
 
