LUCKNOW:   bhandara stalls brought traffic to a standstill all day across the city on Tuesday. Vehicles were stuck for for hours in long queues around Alambagh crossing, Charbagh, Hewett road, Naka Hindola, Aishbagh and adjoining roads. Commuters in Hazratganj, Lalbagh, Aminabad, Kaiserbagh, Lalbagh, Pariwartan chowk, Burlington crossing and adjoining roads were also seen struggling to cross the paralysed stretches.

 There were four to five stalls in every area of the city, including on roads connected to the highways. The distribution of food, sweets and beverages began around 9am and continued till late evening. In Hazratganj, Alambagh, Charbagh, Hussainganj and Indiranagar area, traffic snarls were even worse because of construction work for metro rail in progress. Many commuters and residents of these areas shared with TOI the problems they faced.
 
 Alambagh resident   said, “We have to leave home for offices an hour early when Bada Mangal is celebrated because traffic is always jammed on the occasion and peak summer makes it all the more insufferable.”
 
 P Rajiv Dixit, struggling to find his way out on a scooter at the jampacked Daliganj crossing said, “District administration must find an alternative to reduce the congestion, because the ritual will be celebrated till first week of June.”
 
 Hazratganj resident Aadil Chaudhary said, “It is not possible to drive in a car as religious processions and celebrations take up most part of the road and same is the problem with Bada Mangal.”
 
 Stuck near Charbagh with her mother,   said, “I live near Pandariba and had to reach pathology near Hussainganj, but the congestion made the 20-minute commute so much longer.”
 
 SP traffic   told TOI, “We had announced diversions at spots like Hanuman Setu, Kapoorthala, etc and also deployed more constables in the congested areas of the city. Their duties will continue till June 6, the last the Bada Mangal of the season.”
 
 Box:
 
 Safety measure
 
 According to officials, there were over 1,000 makeshift stalls for food distribution on the occasion of Bada Mangal and teams of Food safety and drug administration distributed aprons, caps and gloves to those manning over 200 stalls, to ensure hygiene.
 
