VIJAYAWADA: Sixty-two-year-old physician Dr Ramamurthy Kosanam 
  as he touched down at   on Sunday after 17 months of trauma and torture in ISIS captivity in Libya. “Thank God. I am free. I cannot believe, I would meet my family in India. I suffered multiple injuries as abductors shuttled me through dungeons in the line of fire,“ he said.

 Dr Ramamurthy's wife, Anna Bhavani, and children welcomed him at the airport even as a battery of officials, politicians and journalists lined up for their turn. Heart-rending scenes were witnessed as tears welled in eyes of his kin. The physician could barely walk due to bullet injuries in legs. He cannot move his left wrist as a bullet lies embedded. Doctors at Andhra Hospital said Dr Ramamurthy would need at least four months to recover from mental shock and physical wounds. The doctor was one of the nine health professionals abducted by   for treatment of injured colleagues. 
 
 Dr Ramamurthy said he was taken to the battlelines to treat wounded jihadis. “I had to treat my own injuries and also cater to the terrorists,“ he said. 
 
 IS militants had laid siege to Sina Hospital at Sirte in Libya on September 8, 2015, and abducted Ramamurthy , another Indian, Samal Pravash Ranjan, and seven nurses from the Philippines. After being held captive for 17 months, the doctor was freed on February 22 after high-level diplomatic intervention from India. Ramamurthy was flown to Turkey and then brought to Delhi.
 
 He thanked the Indian government and   (NSA) Ajit Doval for rescuing him. Ramamurthy was forced to provide medical help for injured IS militants in war-torn Libya. He said his captors were a group of well-educated youngsters, who are well aware of socio-economic and political conditions in India. “They have members in the age-group of 10 and 65. All of them were trained to fight the war in Libya,“ he said.
 
 After rigorous negotiations by the Indian government, which was personally overseen by external affairs minister  , Ramamurthy was finally freed. Dr Ramamurthy joined Ibn-e-Sina Hospital as a physician in 1999. Trouble began after ISIS gained control of Sirte in 2014.
 
 “Very happy to see him again, but concerned over his health“, says Anna Bhavani. Virtually living without correspondence for several months, Anna said she wondered whether she would ever see him again. Bhavani broke down when she caught a glimpse of him, two years after he left for Libya.
 
