When Maharashtra   Ch   Rao took additional charge of   last year, he would not have foreseen the crisis that ensued. When   was hospitalized, Rao asked senior cabinet member O Paneerselvam to take charge. 

 With her passing on December 5, Paneerselvam was sworn in as CM; that should have been the end of the crisis. However, days later, Paneerselvam quit to pave way for V K Sasikala. AIADMK leaders were under the impression that since most legislators supported Sasikala’s nomination, Rao would accept the proposal. But he chose to wait for the Supreme Court’s verdict in a corruption case against her. And his fears came true SC sent   to jail. Events have clearly vindicate Rao's handling of the crisis in Tamil Nadu.
 
 
 
 
 Veteran bureaucrat Sanjay Bhatia has embarked on a new mission to provide result-oriented administration. A few years ago, when he was sales tax commissioner, Bhatia found lack of enthusiasm and motivation was affecting achieving of targets. 
 
 A follower of spiritual Guru Kamlesh Patel, he then introduced his staff to meditation. Call it concidence, but the revenue kitty has increased from Rs 24,000 crore to Rs 66,000 crore. Subsequently, Bhatia was shifted to Cidco, and there too he introduced his subordinates to the same practice. As a result, projects pending since 1997 are now in final stages of completion. 
 
 Bhatia has now joined Bombay Port Trust as its chairman, where too he stresses on the need for meditation for employees.
 
 
 
 
 CM Devendra Fadnavis has chosen transparency as a poll plank for municipal corporation and zilla parishad elections, but a crucial page on status of permissions for open inquiries against public servants is still missing from the anti-corruption website. Significantly, the information was removed from the website the day the HC sought the details while hearing a case on the prolonged delay in granting permission to conduct an open inquiry into the Sion-Panvel highway toll contract case. 
 
 It has transpired that ACB had sought permission in September 2016 and a reminder was submitted in December 2016. But the permission was granted only after the case came up for hearing before the HC in February. Over a decade ago, securing such routine information was a tough task; however, when Sanjeev Dayal took over at ACB, he developed a website. When Praveen Dixit was appointed ACB director general, he ensured that routine information was made available as soon as possible. ACB is yet to explain as to why the practice was abandoned. Was it by mistake or by design?
 
 
