GURUGRAM:: In what highlights the lack of intent yet again on the part of the   to start   (GMDA), the   of the   ended on Friday without the draft bill being even introduced.

 The government has come up with a bizarre reason to justify the delay. “The GDMA bill could not be introduced as we failed to circulate the Hindi version of the bill among the members of the assembly,” said cabinet minister and Badshapur MLA, Rao Narbir Singh.
 
 Apart from senior officials, Gurgaon MP Rao Inderjit Singh has expressed his displeasure over the lackadaisical attitude of the Khattar government in bringing the bill in the assembly.
 
 “I was hoping that the bill will be introduced, discussed and passed by the assembly in this very session. I am surprised that this was not the case and I will talk to the chief minister and the chief secretary to find out what went wrong,” Rao Inderjit told TOI.
 
 “We are equally surprised and shocked that the government actually did not care to introduce the bill in the assembly session,” a senior official said. “The draft bill was submitted to the state government in December last year and the government had nearly three months to do the needful. This argument of not being able to get the bill translated just does not hold,” he added.
 
 “All that this government has given to Gurgaon in the name of development ever since it came to power is Gurugram and Gurujam,” said another official.
 
 When contacted, GMDA’s officer on special duty V Umashankar said only the government could now say when GMDA would be formed. “It was not really expected that the bill will not be introduced. The government has to decide when it wants to make GMDA functional,” he said.
 
 Right before the assembly session started, in an interview to TOI, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had claimed that GMDA would be a reality immediately after the budget session in March.
 
 The residents are equally disappointed. “It is almost unbelievable that the same chief minister who comes to Gurgaon virtually every second week and talks big big things failed to ensure that the draft bill is translated into Hindi so that other legislators too can read it. It is a clear ploy on his part not to expedite the development of the city which generates maximum revenue for the entire state of Haryana,” said Arun Kumar, a Sector 40 resident.
 
 He added, “The chief minister should publicly apologise to the residents of Gurgaon for not keeping his promise.”
 
