MADURAI: The   Madurai bench which had on February 27 ordered the state government to release   for uprooting seemai   ( ) trees in the state has now opened a savings account for the purpose. The registrar (administration) of the high court bench operates the account at the   functioning on the court premises. 

 On Wednesday, the division bench of justices A Selvam and N Authinathan passed an order to make a nominal first deposit of Rs 50 to the newly opened account, after it heard a petition pertaining to an appeal against death sentence. The sessions court in Tirunelveli had in January awarded death sentence to a couple – Sankaranarayanan and Chellammal. The couple appealed against the sentence before the high court bench but it was delayed by seven days. To condone this delay, the couple filed a petition before the high court bench. 
 
 The couple’s counsel told the division bench on Wednesday that he could not file the appeal before the stipulated time as the couple were in jail. After hearing both sides, the bench said that it would allow their petition praying to condone the delay if the couple deposited Rs 50 in the   meant for seemai karuvelam removal on or before March 27. The bench also said that it would dismiss the petition if they failed to pay the money. It posted the matter for March 28 to report compliance with the court order. 
 
 The bench also said that judges who were willing to impose costs in cases may direct to deposit the amount to the account opened for removal of seemai karuvelam trees. As reported these trees that suck lots of water have invaded water bodies and dry lands of government as well as residents in the state. Since such trees ultimately affect agricultural activities, a batch of public interest cases for their eradication was filed before the high court bench. The court had ordered the authorities concerned to remove these trees in the state and for which steps are being taken. It was in this backdrop that the high court bench opened a separate account for removal of seemai karuvelam trees. 
 
