: Red, green and white - that was the colour of the evening when people came together to celebrate the Mexican Independence Day.  , the Mexican ambassador greeted the guests walking through the red carpet. The evening was also a celebration of friendship between India and Mexico.

 
  
  Melba Pria, ambassador of Mexico, with her signature auto
 
 
  
 : The celebrations began when Melba, along with the chief guest, Ashok Das, additional secretary, LAC, Ministry of External Affairs, sang the national anthems of both the countries. Then there was a ceremonial march, during which the Mexican flag was handed over by the military to the ambassador. As she rang the bell and waved the flag, she addressed the gathering, and said, "All of you, today, for the next five minutes are honorary Mexicans. I urge you to join me and repeat after me, 'Viva Mexico!'", and all of them did cheer, 'Long Live Mexico.' The fireworks added to the celebratory environment.
 
  
  (L-R) Ashok Das, additional secretary, LAC, Ministry of External
 Petko Doykov, ambassador of Bulgaria and Andres Barbe, ambassador of Chile (BCCL)
 
  
  Aashna Kanhai, ambassador of Suriname, told us, "A lot of times people in India think that I am a south Indian. And since I can speak Hindi as well, they get even more confused. Sometimes, I invite people home and make Suriname style daal, and it leaves them even more perplexed! But it is interesting, since it already makes me a part of their community." Milan Hovorka, the ambassador of Czech Republic, also spoke about the difference in weather in Mumbai and Delhi.
 
  
  (L-R) Milan Hovorka, ambassador of Czech Republic, Alexandre Cece Loua, ambassador of Republic of Guinea and Nina Vaskunlahti, ambassador of Finland (BCCL)
 
  
  (L-R) V Namgyel, ambassador of Bhutan, Nejmeddine Lakhal, ambassador of Tunisia
 
 
  
  Once everyone was in celebratory mood, the guests took to the dance floor and shook a leg to Mexican and Latin music. The traditional Mariachi music - with the sound of violins, trumpets and guitar - formed the backdrop for the first half of evening. The music soon went from traditional to pop, when they started playing songs like Despacito and La Bicicleta, among other contemporary Latin hits.
 
 
  
  (L-R) Jorge Castaneda, ambassador of Peru, Mentor Villagomez, ambassador of Ecuado, Anatoly Kargapolov, charged d'affaires of Russia (BCCL)
 
 
  
  Florence I Weche, ambassador of Kenya and  , ambassador of New Zealand (BCCL)
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  (L-R) Mohammed Khater Ibrahim Al-Khater, ambassador of  , Dato Paduka Haji Sidek Ali, the high commissioner of Brunei
 
 
  
  Aashna Kanhai, ambassador of Suriname (BCCL)
 
  -- Vaishali.Soni@timesgroup.com
 
 
