BENGALURU: “A person suffering from depression is in need of love and support but gets prejudice and discrimination instead. Having gone through this, I understand”. As Bollywood actress   took the dais on Saturday, the packed hall listened with rapt attention.

 “Depression has no age bar and can affect the rich or the poor. But the person needs a lot of support,” Deepika said at the World Health Day celebrations organized by the state health department and her own foundation, Live Laugh Love. Clad in an off-white gown, the actress began her speech with “Ellarigu Namaskara”, which drew a rousing applause. 
 
 Her foundation, the actress explained, has been working with schools to sensitize students and teachers, and enable them to identify signs of anxiety and depression. It has also been working with general physicians. A video campaign called Dubara Pucho (ask again about depression) has also been used as a tool to spread awareness.
 
 “With combined efforts, we can fight depression. We will continue to keep this conversation alive,” she said. 
 
 The convention hall at National Institute of   and Neurosciences (Nimhans) witnessed a huge crowd, eager to catch a glimpse of the actress. She released the ‘let’s talk’ flyer designed by the state government and her foundation.
 
 6 crore Indians affected
 
 Union minister for chemicals and fertilizers Ananth Kumar said 6 crore people in India suffer from depression. “During a chat with Nimhans doctors, I got to know the number is increasing. But with self-confidence, we can beat depression,” he said citing the example of his mother Girija Shastry, a cancer survivor, who rose in politics despite the odds.
 
 “Never thought I would share stage with Deepika”
 
 It was a memorable moment for Sunitha Rudramuni, 48, when she shook hands with Deepika Padukone. Sunitha, who tried to kill herself several years ago, is a social worker today. After attempting suicide due to marital discord, she left her hometown Chitradurga and came to Bengaluru. “I was treated at  . I lost my nine-year-old son. But I managed to overcome depression through the constant support of many. Principal secretary Shalini Rajneesh was among those who helped me regain confidence. I never thought I would share the stage with a Bollywood actress,” an ecstatic Sunitha told STOI on the sidelines of the event. She helps the urban homeless get government IDs and BPL cards.
 
