MEERUT: In what political experts and adversaries termed as the launch of another political dynasty,   chief Mayawati’s brother Anand Kumar, and his young son Akash, were introduced at the former UP CM’s Meerut rally, her first public meeting after the party’s poll debacle in the state, on Monday. 

 It was for the first time that the two made a public appearance in a rally. As the rally, which the party claimed was attended by 1 lakh people in Meerut’s Vedvyaspuri, began, the father and son appeared on the stage and waved at the people as they were introduced. They took seats on the stage as   began her speech. Sources said Anand and Akash have been attending most party meetings called by Mayawati in Lucknow and Delhi in the recent past. 
 
 Mayawati had announced appointment of Anand as the party’s national vice-president during the birth anniversary celebrations of B R Ambedkar on April 14. She had, however, made it clear that Anand would only help in party activities and would not become a legislator or MP. Mayawati, during a closed door meeting with her party leaders a day later, introduced her nephew Akash, a management postgraduate from London, as an ‘upcoming’ party functionary. 
 
 According to the BSP constitution, the vice-president will be its acting president in the absence of the president. Anand’s appointment has been seen an indication that he will be Mayawati's successor. Ever since, the father-son duo has been taking keen interest in the party’s activities, mostly in western UP. Akash, in fact, had accompanied Mayawati when she visited the riot-hit Saharanpur in May. According to political experts, Mayawati may now seek to establish her brother and nephew through rallies which she has planned to hold after resigning from the Rajya Sabha on July 18 in protest against not being allowed to speak on issues of Dalit atrocities. In all, Mayawati plans to hold six rallies, each covering three divisional headquarters across the state in a show of strength. 
 
 Political experts said Mayawati propping her brother and nephew on a political stage could potentially bring the spotlight back on her strategy to consolidate the Dalit vote bank which has apparently drifted towards the BJP, first during the Lok Sabha elections and then in the UP assembly polls. Anand has already been given a key party post and speculations are rife that Akash may soon be given a bigger role within the party structure.
 
