BENGALURU: The neglected, traditional Nada Kusti, wrestling in Karnataka, received a much-needed shot in the arm from recent Bollywood biopics Sultan and Dangal.

 Given the interest among youngsters to learn wrestling, the Karnataka government plans to start an academy for young grapplers in chief minister  's home district, Mysuru.
 
 “We recently sent a proposal to the state finance department, asking for funds to set up a wrestling academy in Mysuru and it was instantly cleared, thanks to Siddaramaiah's love for this traditional sport,'' said sports minister Pramod Madhwaraj. It may be recalled that a national tournament named after Siddaramaiah was held a few months ago in Mysuru. Last year, he allocated Rs 2.5 crore for restoring the Garadi Mane (wrestling houses or gymnasiums).
 
 “There are hundreds of children in the villages who are talented and bring honour and glory to the country. But they need support. I feel an academy will do wonders for the sport,'' Madhwaraj said.
 
 The government also decided to increase the funds for promoting wrestling in rural areas from Rs 5 lakh to Rs 20 lakh in the upcoming state budget. It'll also increase the monthly pension for retired wrestlers from Rs 2,000 to Rs 3,000.
 
 A senior official of the department of youth services and sports said the government is also considering funding registered Gardi Mane to buy a wrestling mat so that youngsters can practice on it rather than on a sand bed.
 
 The Old Mysuru region and parts of North Karnataka have a rich wrestling culture but the sport is dying for lack of financial support and fading interest among the youth. Garadi Manes in villages across the state are seen as fertile breeding grounds for wrestlers, but these centres suffer from want of funds and equipment.
 
 Balaram Patil, president,  , said with the advent of wrestling-centric films, the sport is becoming a first choice for many youngsters.“Earlier, very few youngsters took up wrestling. But Indian wrestlers winning medals in recent international events have been a big inspiration for youths as young as 19, and with Bollywood coming up with inspiring films, the number of enthusiasts is going up.“ The performance of the Phogat sisters in Dangal and Anushka Sharma as Arfa in Sultan have kindled interest among girls too. “We train many girls now, and most were inspired by what they saw on the big screen. They want to take it up for self-defence,“ said Manju, a wrestling coach in Mysuru.
 
 
 
 
 I nspired by Bollywood movies, Belavagi is hosting two pro-wrestling league contests. One was to be held on Thursday and the other on March 5.
 
 Called `dangals', these Indian-style mudwrestling events have wrestlers from various states showcasing their prowess. “We're planning a competition for girls too,'' said  , president, Belagavi Wrestlers Association.
 
 Recently, a three-day wrestling league was held at   in Hirekerur taluk, Haveri district. The villagers chipped in with money to organize these contests as part of an annual fair, and it attracted a record crowd.“Bollywood plays a big role in inspiring youngsters.Wrestling is all about mental and physical discipline.People now see it as a serious sport, and these films contribute a lot to change the mindset,'' said Chidananda H, organizer.
 
