HYDERABAD: With hazardous chemicals and sewer water being discharged directly into the Hussainsagar surplus nala opposite   at  , residents of downstream areas continue to suffer. 

 Industrial effluents from Jeedimetla and Patancheru industrial units are being discharged into the drain, posing serious health hazard in areas abutting the Hussainsagar surplus nala, mainly DS Nagar, Dhobi Ghat, Nehru Nagar, Kavadiguda and Ambedkar Nagar. "A pipeline carrying industrial effluents was damaged five years ago. After failing to fix the pipeline, they are discharging the untreated chemicals into the nala," M Srinivas, a local resident and CPI-M city secretary, said.
 
 The residents of the area are suffering due to the polluted water flowing in the Hussainsagar surplus nala, but discharge of industrial effluents into the surplus nala has worsened their situation, especially after last week's rains.
 
 The residents were having sleepless nights due to foul smell emanating from the nala. All their pleas to the authorities to solve their grievances fell on deaf ears."We are going through a nightmare due to the deadly chemicals released into the nala and the stench worsens during the evening. The colour of the water also changes during the night," Dasharat, a resident of the area, said. "I request the authorities to fix the issue immediately," he rued.
 
 More than 10 families in  , a slum near the drain, have vacated their houses due to the menace, and property owners living near the nala complain about losses. House owners, who had rented their properties, were forced to relocate their homes as most tenants have been vacating the houses due to health issues. "My house is vacant for the past three months and I was forced to relocate my house, despite my office being 21 kilometres away," said one of the residents .
 
 The residents also blame the authorities for ruining their social life as they are unable to organize family functions due to the hazardous chemicals in the nala. "We have stopped celebrating events near our place and, for the last few years, we are not even inviting relatives over to our place as we are afraid we might risk their health," Zakir, another resident, said.
 
  (PCB) officials claim untreated industrial effluents were not being discharged into the drain. "A TSPCB team has inspected the area and studied the characteristic of the effluents and found that they were sewage in nature. The air pollution in the area is due to severe summer and the strong pressure with which the sewage is discharged," a PCB spokesperson said.
 
