Akkineni Nagarjuna starrer- ' ' under the direction of K Raghavendra Rao opened to a decent box office response on February 10. The movie is based on the life and incidents of Baba Hathiram, an ardent devotee of Lord Venkateswara. Jagapathi Babu, Anushka Shetty and Pragya Jaiswal played other prominent roles in the movie produced by Mahesh Reddy. Here are a few celebs from the Tollywood industry who shared their experience after the special screening.

  is a remarkable movie in Nagarjuna's career: Chiranjeevi
 
  Megastar Chiranjeevi, after watching the special show said, "The movie is top-notch in terms of performances and quality. I am pretty confident that the movie stands as another remarkable one in the career of Nagarjuna and I congratulate the whole team."
 
 ONV is a visual treat and the climax is heart-wrenching: Dil Raju
 The hot shot producer of the Telugu cinema said, "The movie is a visual treat and will be another milestone in Nagarjuna and Raghavendra Rao's cinema career. Especially, the last half-an-hour of the movie is heart-wrenching. I would like to congratulate and thank the team of ONV for putting in such efforts and delivering a masterpiece."
 
 ONV is a magic that Nagarjuna and KRR have put together after Annamayya: Vamsi Paidipally
 "ONV is a magic that is repeated by Nagarjuna and KRR after legendary Annamayya. This movie is a must-watch for Telugu cinema lovers", opined director Vamsi Paidipally.
 
 Hero Sushanth says, " The movie touched my heart. It was emotional throughout and I learnt a lot from it. I recommend this movie as a must-watch".
 
 Indian Olympian P V Sindhu, who also watched the special show commented, "The movie is a great attempt and I liked it. I wish the entire team all the best for it."
 
 Producer of the film, A Mahesh Reddy explained, "The life and journey of Hathiram Baba was portrayed by Nagarjuna. With talent like Raghavendra Rao, Keeravani, Gopal Reddy and J K Bharavi coming together for this project, I am truly blessed."
 
 
 
