Mumbai:   ( ) will buy back equity shares worth up to Rs 16,000 crore, making it the biggest share repurchase programme in the Indian capital market. 

 The software giant will buy back nearly 6 crore shares representing 2.81% of its equity capital at Rs 2,850 apiece. The buyback price is a substantial premium to TCS’ closing price of Rs 2,507 on the BSE on Monday. This is the company’s first buyback scheme since its listing 13 years ago. The buyback programme is aimed at returning surplus cash to shareholders. TCS has cash and investments of Rs 39,219 crore on its books. The buyback will reduce the cash pile to Rs 23,219 crore if the company utilises the entire Rs 16,000 crore for the repurchase scheme. 
 
 Monday’s announcement comes at a time when   is moving out from TCS to parent   as its chairman. Tata Sons holds about 73% in TCS. The buyback will be made to all the shareholders on a proportionate basis, said the company in a statement to the stock exchanges. This means that the promoters will also sell some of TCS shares in the offer. Public shareholders hold 27% in the Mumbai-based company.
 
 The share repurchase programme, subject to shareholder approval and when completed, will be the country’s biggest after Reliance Industries’ Rs 10,400-crore buyback scheme in 2012.
 
 TCS and other IT companies have been under pressure from investors to return excess cash to shareholders if they were not using funds for acquisitions. Early February, Cognizant Technology Solutions announced a dividend payout and a share buyback of $3.4 billion, bowing to pressure from activist investor Elliott Management. There is speculation that Infosys may also follow suit. Moreover, the $150-billion Indian outsourcing sector is facing an uncertain outlook in the US, its biggest market, following the Trump administration’s move to tighten visa norms. 
 
 Buyback is a tax-efficient means of returning cash to shareholders as compared to doling out dividends. TCS said that the buyback size of Rs 16,000 crore doesn’t include any expenses incurred for the share repurchase. Under the Union Budget, a shareholder who receives dividends in excess of Rs 10 lakh will have to pay a higher tax. 
 
 Separately, TCS has named   as its new CFO. Ramakrishnan is taking over from Rajesh Gopinathan, who was promoted to the CEO post last month.
 
 
