Visakhapatnam: With the foundation stone laid just six months ago, the AP Med Tech Zone (AMTZ) is on fast track to finalise developers for setting up various facilities at its campus located at Nadupuru in the port city. 

 According to AMTZ sources, while tenders have been floated for setting up nearly 12 facilities during the last three months, developers for five facilities have already been finalised and the remaining are likely to be picked by the end of this month.
 
 Sources said the developers for construction, operations, management and maintenance of Gamma irradiation facility, 3D design (3D CAD and design facility with tinker lab), prototyping and rapid tooling (3D printing/additive manufacturing/ small batch production and allied facility), electro-magnetic interference (EMI/EMC) and electrical safety testing laboratory, X-Ray and CT scan tube manufacturing centre and Radiation Testing Laboratory have been finalised under the public private partnership mode within the AMTZ.
 
 In the same time, the selection of developers for the remaining facilities are in the final process of submission and evaluation, the AMTZ sources said. Also, the technical evaluation for the project construction agency has been completed. The financial bid evaluation is underway and is expected to be completed soon.
 
 Sources said the allotment of space for medical devices manufacturing units, who have applied ever since bookings started in October last year is also expected to be finalised by the end of this month or in early March.
 
 The AMTZ facility is spread over 270 acres and is expected to provide jobs to about 25,000 people once it is fully operational. 
 
 During meetings held between AMTZ and medical devices manufacturing firms, as many as 40 firms had evinced interested in setting up operations at AMTZ. The facility is expected to reduce production cost of medical devices as they will be manufactured locally. India depends on nearly 70% imports of medical devices to meet the existing demand in the country.
 
 
