CHANDIGARH: Signaling rift in the   led All India   Arakshan Sangharsh Samiti (AIJASS) that was spearheading the Jat stir for reservation in Haryana, the district president of Hisar unit, Krishan Kirmara has accused Malik of betraying the community and working under the directions of the state government.

 Kirmara has been active in the district for the past around eight years over the Jat reservation movement and was heading the crucial protest site in Hisar, which was once epicenter of reservation agitation. Malik group, however, has removed Kirmara from the post of district body chief, replacing him with Himmat Singh who will now be coordinator of Hisar district.
 
 Talking to TOI, Kirmara said he had selflessly given eight years for the fight for reservation to Jat community but was removed just because he asked Malik about the result of the agreement with the state government in March, following which the agitation was deferred.
 
 “Not a single person arrested for cases related to Jat stir has been released as per the agreement. People are still being tried and convicted by the courts. No initiative has been taken by the state or central government for   quota in Centre. I simply asked Malik to explain these points, but he behaved like a state government representative and refused to answer any of them. Malik’s behavior in the organization is dictatorial and undemocratic,” claimed Kirmala. He further accused Malik and his team of acting like the state government’s stooges. He claimed that he has been contacted by other groups related to the Jat reservation movement and would join them after discussing it with his supporters.
 
 Malik, however, refuted the allegations, saying Kirmara was feeling aggrieved just because he was removed on disciplinary grounds. “By making such allegations, he is actually helping the state government, which wants to see AIJASS divided. We had even given him a post in the national executive but we don’t know on whose behest he is working and making such allegations,” Malik said. He further claimed that they are analyzing the situation and any further action would be taken after discussing with all the members of the organization.
 
 
