Nagpur: In a first for the city, six closed Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) schools may be revived by Kendriya Vidyalaya Sanghatna (KVS) to provide quality and affordable education. Last month, a team from KVS inspected seven NMC schools (of which maximum six may be selected) to check feasibility for starting Kendriya Vidyalayas (KV). NMC education committee chief Dilip Dive told TOI the proposed tie-up with KVS is part of local MP and Union minister Nitin Gadkari’s “vision to provide quality education for every child”. Dive said, “Gadkari coordinated with KVS to conduct a feasibility study and instructed NMC to identify schools for this project. We showed the KVS team premises of schools that have been shut down,” said Dive. Selection of these seven schools was also based on the requirements of KVS, like having an attached ground, building and other amenities like regular water supply and electricity etc. Dive said, “These schools are located in parts of the city where CBSE schools are few in number. Also, almost all CBSE schools are under private management, which makes them unaffordable for children from poor socio-economic backgrounds. KVS operations will ensure that not only quality is taken care of but also the school is accessible to everyone. We are waiting for further updates on the proposal.” Sources in KVS told TOI that a two-member team inspected all the schools and photographed the existing amenities. Based on their ground level study, they have prepared a comprehensive report on each of the premises, and submitted the details to KVS headquarters. Dive said, “We are waiting to hear from KVS, and I am hopeful we should be able to start the project by next academic session.” The project will be a collaboration between NMC and KVS, with the former retaining rights and control over their land. Dive said, “The administration will be taken care of by KVS, and our only role will be to provide the infrastructure.” The other aspect that will need to be worked out is fee. The fee charged at KVs is extremely low (less than Rs500 per month) and many students are exempted completely. A local KV’s website mentions that no tuition fee is charged from girls. Even boys coming under categories specified by the central government are exempt from paying the tuition fee. Dive said, “We will work on that aspect as well, to see how it can be free for everybody, as our vision is to ensure that every deserving child gets to study under the famed KV brand.”