Ujjain: High drama was witnessed in Dewas Gate area on Thursday when sanitation workers gathered in large number and emptied garbage vans on the streets protesting attack on one of their supervisors and health officer by husband of a BJP corporator.

 Tempers ran high among the sanitation workers of Ujjain Municipal Corporation (UMC) when Rakesh Rao, husband of Ward No 18 corporator Shaifali Rao, beat up sanitation supervisor Tarachand and health officer Vivek Jain.
 
 Rao had earlier made a phone call to Jain expressing his anger of lackadaisical work by sanitation department employees in Dewas Gate area. Jain took Tarachand along with him to the spot, where Rao and his friends Rajesh and others attacked them.
 
 The attackers allegedly tore clothes of the UMC workers and threw abuses.
 
 As news about the attack spread, sanitation workers gathered at the Dewas Gate square in large numbers and raised slogans against Rao. They brought garbage vehicles from different parts of the city and emptied them on the streets.
 
 UMC commissioner Ashish Singh rushed to the spot and held discussions with the protesters. The sanitation workers ended their protest when Singh promised appropriate action. They also cleaned the streets afterwards.
 
 Later a complaint was lodged against Rao and his friends. “We have booked Rao and others for assault, preventing government servant from discharging his duties and under relevant sections of Scheduled Caste Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act,” police station in-charge Gopal Parmar told TOI.
 
 Singh told the UMC workers that there is no post called ‘representative of corporator’ recognized by the corporation. Direct instructions from anyone claiming to be corporator’s representative will not be entertained.
 
 Incidentally, Rao was also employed as a temporary worker with the fire brigade. Singh terminated his services immediately after the incident.
 
 The UMC commissioner also issued showcase notices to three employees for spreading garbage on the streets; fines of Rs 1000 each was levied on six employees.
 
 
