NAGPUR: A man was stabbed and seriously injured outside his house by a burglar at   in Gittikhadan on Tuesday at 4.30am. The miscreant in his 20s had jumped over the compound wall after burgling the neighbouring house, and was going through a bag stolen from there when the house owner ran into him, leading to the attack.

 Gittikhadan police, who registered an offence of   and hurt, nabbed the history sheeter accused, identified as Mangesh Sadmake alias Manglu while he was roaming behind   four hours later. Cops noticed blood stains on his clothes, which led to his arrest.
 
 Cops said 48-year-old victim   had got up for his morning walk and heard some footsteps behind his house. Vijay, a railway employee, tried to go out of the back door, but found it latched from outside. He took a torch and went out from the main door, which he latched from outside so no one could enter the house. When he reached the rear of the house, he saw someone going through a bag, said cops.
 
 “As soon as Vijay flashed his torch on the miscreant, wearing black T-shirt and around 5ft in height, he started stabbing him indiscriminately with a knife. Vijay lost his grip on the torch but raised an alarm, and tried to hit the burglar with a piece of tile. This forced the miscreant to run away,” said Vijay’s younger brother Sunil, who rushed to his help from the neighbouring house.
 
 The victim sustained seven injuries on stomach, forehead and hand, and is recuperating at private hospital. 
 
 Senior PI RD Nikam said, “The accused Sadmake, who has serious offences against him including murder, had first sneaked into Sunil’s house, adjacent to Vijay’s house. He had stolen a wallet containing Rs1,800 cash, ID proof, ATM card and a mobile, totally worth Rs12,800, along with the black bag. He was going through the contents of the bag when Vijay confronted him.” The victim’s mother Rajni (68) had not latched the back door properly, through which Sadmake had entered Sunil’s house, cops said.
 
 “I woke up when I heard Vijay’s scream. I ran towards the main door, but it was locked,” said Sonali, the victim’s wife. It came to light later that the miscreant had tried to enter two other houses in the vicinity earlier in the night but failed. Sonali added small thefts have became regular incidents for them in the recent past.
 
 Cops have recovered the knife used in the attack, mobile, ATM card, and other valuables, totally worth Rs8,000 from Sadmake.
 
