NAGPUR: A 10-day free   organized by Ambedkarite theatre group   started at Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Sanskrutik Bhavan, Uruvela Colony, on Saturday. The workshop, which is in its seventeenth year is open for children and adults between the ages 8 and 30, the workshop aims to familiarize the participants with the basics of stage craft.

 The first day of the workshop was dedicated to the orientation of the participants who were divided into two groups on the basis of the age — one 8-14 years and the other 15-30 years. The participants were encouraged to know each other and were given situations for enacting. “They were also given tips on how to make their presence felt on the stage and over the course of the workshop they will be taught theory which will help them practically on the stage,” said Virendra Ganvir, founder of Bahujan Rangbhoomi. 
 
 Students will be taught all aspects of theatre including acting, writing, direction, lights, and sound. “There will be theory based lessons on the size and area of the stage, basic rules of theatre like entry and exit on the stage etc. It will build a strong foundation for the artist,” added Ganvir.
 
 Members of Bahujan Rangbhoomi now studying in institutes like National School of Drama (NSD), Delhi, theatre department of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), Delhi, and   (MTA) are the faculty for the workshop. Snehlata Tagde from NSD will take sessions on acting, Surendra Wankhede from JNU will talk about stage direction and Sameer Ramteke from MTA will speak about the difference in theatre and film.
 
 Ganvir further said, “Our workshop is not only for theatre artistes, but also for anyone who is interested in this art or who wants to develop their personality. Being a part of theatre builds confidence and improves body language of a person, which helps in every aspect of one’s life. For us it is not just a hobby, but a passion which we intend to keep alive among Nagpurians.”
 
 Aayush Tiwari, a 16-year-old participant of the workshop, while working on his dialogues, told TOI that he has been attending this workshop for the last three years. “I hope to make it big as an actor one day,” he said.
 
 “Bahujan Rangbhoomi has been finessing raw talents to create professional artistes not just from Nagpur but all over Maharashtra while spreading awareness and fighting for human rights using theatre as a medium,” said Ganvir. 
 
 (Reporting by Nishi Jaiswal)
 
