PANAJI: The crime branch of Goa police have obtained a court warrant for custody of three inmates of Sada jail in connection with the murder of undertrial Vinayak Karbotkar early this year.

 Rahul Kumar, George Fernandes and Mohammed Salim Shaikh will be arrested for the heinous crime. Karbotkar, who was facing trial in more than 10 criminal cases.
 
  He was killed on January 24, 2017, after a fight broke out between two factions of inmates in the jail in which some of the other inmates were injured. The case was transferred to the crime branch in February.
 
 The crime branch zeroed in on the trio’s involvement in the case after studying statements of inmates and guards of the jail, sources said.
 
  The   footage of the incident was unavailable as the cameras and hard disks were damaged. 
 
 Statements of 30 inmates, 30 police personnel and 15 jail staff were recorded. Police personnel and jail inmates blamed each other for the murder, police sources said.
 
 SP (crime) had earlier formed a special team to crack the case.
 
  Six months before his murder, Karbotkar was slapped with the charge of killing history-sheeter Ashpak Bengre at the central jail, Colvale, where both had been lodged. After the incident, he was shifted to Sada, Vasco. 
 
 The postmortem examination of the 27-year-old murder accused had revealed that he had died of ‘haemorrhage and shock as a result of combined multiple injuries caused by a blunt object, could be a stick’.
 
 At late night on January 24 , there were rumblings after Karbotkar was brought back to the Sada sub-jail. 
 
 He demanded that cell No. 13 be opened, which jailers refused. 
 
 There was pandemonium as inmates went on a rampage damaging property. Soon power went off and it was not known what happened in the dark. 
 
 This led the central industrial security force ( ) and police to storm the premises to prevent any escape of inmates. 
 
 The situation was brought under control and Karbotkar was found murdered in the early hours of the morning.
 
 
