CHANDIGARH:   released its fourth list of 8 candidates and two replacements here on Friday. However, the party did not make any formal announcement about candidates from the nine contentious seats, from some of which Akali and BJP turncoats like  ,   and Inderbir Singh Bolaria are in the fra.y Amid opposition from Congress leaders, the party has decided to replace its Jalandhar North candidate,  , with former MLA Rajkumar Gupta. Bittu was being termed as an “outsider“ by those opposing his candidature. From Bhadaur (SC) constituency , former BSP MLA Nirmal Singh Nimma has been replaced by Joginder Singh Panjgrain, who had contested 2012 assembly polls on a Congress ticket from Jaitu (SC). Panjgrain was one of the two sitting MLAs (besides Tarlochan Singh from Banga) who had been dropped in the first list.

 Sources said the Nimma's “lackluster“ campaign could have gone against him. In the case of Bittu, the change comes within a day of announcement of his candidature. Jalandhar North being a Hindu-dominated seat, party leaders were reportedly of the view that Gupta would be a better choice. The party has played musical chairs with the two leaders in the past as well. “Though Bittu is known to be in proximity to the party leadership, the party has decided to make the change,“ said a Congress leader. Bittu was facing dissidence from not just Gupta, but also former Congress minister Avtar Henry . Gupta claims to enjoy popularity among the sizeable Aggarwal community in the area, and he was not happy with Bittu getting the party ticket. A party spokesperson said the two new candidates scored higher in terms of “winnability“. The party has failed to reach a consensus on key seats   and Nakodar, from where Pargat Singh is being considered, and Amritsar East, which has been reserved for Navjot Singh Sidhu.
 
 With this, the party has announced 108 candidates for the election so far. The remaining tickets would be announced at the earliest, said Punjab Congress president Captain Amarinder Singh, reiterating the party's commitment to choosing winnable candidates over other considerations and sticking to the “one family , one ticket“ rule.
 
