New Delhi: The Delhi government on Sunday asked why the Delhi   Rail Corporation did not hold a board meeting for eight months if it was in such a hurry to raise fares. 

  minister Kailash   said that the   fixation committee had given a report on September 8, 2016 that fares should go up in October. “Despite that, there was no board meeting till May 8, 2017. If there was such a pressing need for a fare  , why was there such a delay? The May meeting was also not attended by the chief secretary or the transport secretary,” he said.
 
 He also said that it was incorrect to say that the government had not raised objections to the proposed fare hike. “The fare fixation committee was constituted on May 17, 2016 and on June 20, the transport department put up a file with the government’s objection and making its stand clear,” he said. 
 
 Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia added that had any official gone against the stand of the government in this matter on any official platform, show-cause action would also be taken against the official concerned.
 
 Sisodia further said that Delhi Metro had not been set up as a profit making company and its purpose was to serve as an efficient public transport system. He said that the aim of the company should be to break even and for that, it needed to increase efficiency and ridership. “There are several revenue models that are being followed by Metros across the world in which they earn maximum revenue through advertisements, property development and through food courts. Tickets lead to the smallest percentage of revenues,” he said.
 
 Responding to charges by the union urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri that if a fare hike was not allowed, the government would turn the Metro into the DTC bus service, Sisodia said that despite its failings, DTC was at least carrying out its primary responsibility of ferrying people. “The spirit behind the Metro was to make it an efficient public transport system. Profit making is not its primary function. According to some reports, ridership of Metro has fallen by 1.5 lakh since fares went up. These people must have moved to either buses or private transport to travel,” he said.
 
