PATNA: Senior BJP functionary   on Tuesday said Rajesh Agrawal, the chartered accountant of   and Printers Pvt Ltd, an alleged shell firm run by RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s eldest daughter   Bharti and her husband Shailesh Kumar, has confessed to   (ED) that he had converted black money to the tune of Rs 1.20 crore into white by making forged entry in the books of accounts of the firm. Agrawal was arrested by ED in New Delhi late Monday evening in connection with an alleged money laundering case.

 Modi said Agrawal has confessed to ED that shares of the firm were sold at the rate of Rs 100 in 2008, three years after the firm was closed, and purchased again at the rate of Rs 10 per share 11 months later. Modi said the funds generated from trade of the shares were later used to purchase a farm house in posh Bijwasan in south Delhi.
 
 Earlier, Times Now, in an expose made on May 11, revealed a complex web of shady transactions by family members of Lalu to purchase expensive property at throwaway rates by buying and selling shares in dubious front companies. The report had stated that V K Jain and S K Jain, the entry operators who were arrested in March this year as part of crackdown on black money, had also purchased shares of Misa’s firm, Mishail Packers, at a premium of Rs 90 and later sold it at a nominal price of Rs 10.
 
 “Misa’s CA has admitted that black money was converted into white by making bogus entries in books of accounts of her firm. Other family members of Lalu, including his two minister sons – Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and Tej Pratap – should also clarify whether other benami properties are theirs or not,” Modi said. 
 
 The former deputy CM levelled a fresh allegation against Lalu, accusing him of getting allotment of more than one plot from  . “The cooperative society is under complete control of Lalu as the chairperson of the committee is RJD functionary   Yadav. If the committee does not disclose the anomaly in allotment of plots, I will do the same in a few days,” Modi added.
 
