Cleared/Anil

 Coimbatore: The decision to merge the budget for the railway, one of the world’s largest public sector enterprises, with the general budget has raised the eyebrows of many of its stakeholders who said not mentioning any specifics for the Rs1.31 lakh crore expenditure outlay was suspicious. They said there was no clarity on the demand for a night train to Bengaluru, completion of broad guage works or improving stations in Coimbatore.
 
 Though the finance minister announced the largest ever   and touched upon critical aspects of safety, infrastructure, solar powering and eradication of unmanned level crossings, stakeholders have called it “shallow”.
 
 “First, merging the budget of an institution that is so large and important to everyone with the general budget was wrong,” said former CPM MP P R Natarajan. “Second, not giving specifics is suspicious. Because we suspect that they will use the entire budget only for states where elections are scheduled for this year or states where they are in power,” he further said.
 
 According to the stakeholders, not giving specifics was also an attempt to escape accountability. “We have been asking for a Bengaluru-Coimbatore night train for the past 10 years, besides revamping of the Coimbatore-North station,” said M Jameel Ahmed, member of the District Railway Users Consultative Committee.
 
 “The Coimbatore Rameshwaram Train and Podanur-Pollachi trains have not run for the past seven years due to guage conversion. While we know works are on, a small mention of it in the budget would have made them accountable for it,” Natarajan said.
 
 “They could have mentioned everything in detain, so we will know routes on which tracks are going to be improved, new tracks that are going to be laid, where the unmanned level crossings are going to be removed, where subways were going to be constructed and which routes will see new trains and new coaches,” said former president of District Railway Users Consultative Committee, Sivagnanam U K.
 
 Pointing out that many new trains had been old demands, rail users said, “A train from Coimbatore to Shirdi via Chennai even once a week will yield good earnings and passenger traffic. A special train between Ooty and Mettupalayam and one between Coimbatore and Yeshwantpur were also old demands,” Ahmed said. Railway officials, passengers said, wanted more infrastructure development, rather than announcement of new schemes.
 
 
