Bhopal: A day after collapse of a building structure at   (CAPT) at  , 20 km from the capital, central public works department (CPWD) and Bureau of Police Research and Development separately ordered to conduct inquiry into the matter. The incident that took place on Thursday night left a person dead and 16 injured.

 A DIG rank officer from Delhi was sent to Bhopal to look into the matter. The incident took place around 7 in evening when a roof of badminton court collapsed, leaving 16 labourers injured at the site.
 
 Pervez Hayat, additional director general, BPRD, said, “Preliminary investigation was ordered. A committee is formed to investigate the matter. It seems to be a technical fault. But if it is found the construction company is responsible for the collapse and casualty, we will take a tough action against it.”
 
 CPWD is an authority responsible for construction of CAPT, which has given the contract for building to a Delhi-based construction company, known as BCC Developers and Promoters Pvt Ltd, owned by Ankur Bansal.
 
 R.K Thakur, project manager, CPWD, said, “We are holding an inquiry and will soon find out the exact reason for the collapse of structure.”
 
 The deceased was identified as Matlu Koda, a resident of Lakhisarai in  . Those who sustained injuries were admitted to a hospital where they are undergoing treatment.
 
 Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced a compensation of Rs 2 lakh to the family of deceased and Rs 50,000 for severely injured.
 
 In August 2016, the CAG objected to the project citing wasteful expenditure of Rs 10 crore in setting up of pre-fabricated structures. “Audit observed that the project, which was envisaged to be implemented during the 11th Five Year Plan (2007-12), was not taken up during the plan due to issue relating to encroachment, deficient road connectivity, inadequate electricity and resistance by villagers to demarcate the area in the proposed land,” CAG reported. Project cost was later revised to Rs 281 crore in 2012 with the stipulated date of completion as March 2016.
 
 
