One superhit, a couple of hits, two lukewarm releases that had super stars, and an unending, dispiriting string of flops that stretches from January to July. Even as half of Tollywood basks in the warmth of their (er)chievements in the US, the box-office numbers for the first six months tell a grim story Till June 30, 2017, approx 32 Bengali films have released, of which 26 can be labelled flops, as they have recovered little of their total costs. February and March saw a string of 12 flops -six each month. Navin Choukhani, owner of Navina Cinema, said, “The Bengali film industry is in a very bad state. In six months we have only had one superhit film in  . That apart,   and   can be termed hits. But can only two-three hits save this industry? Not a single commercial film has worked in the past few months. The audience wants new ideas with which they can connect.“Arijit Dutta, owner of  , echoed Choukhani, say ing, “Posto and Bisorjon are the only two films that can be called hits in the first half of the year.

 Commercial film budgets have to come down, or else making profits would be impossible.Despite high expectations, the two biggest releases of this period -Dev's   and Jeet's Boss 2 -have done strictly average business, said Dipen Mitra, owner of Mitra Cinema.“Apart from Posto and Bisorjon, nothing has really worked,“ he added.Manik Banik, the owner of Jaya Cinema in Lake Town, said that only a few films have done average business. “It has become a question of survival now!“ he said.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 At the multiplexes, apart from the two films mentioned above, Bibaho Diaries has done very well too. Said Subhasis Ganguli, regional director, Inox East, “Bibaho Diaries did well at the city plexes apart from Posto and Bisorjon. Boss 2 and Chaamp have done above average in the plexes of the suburbs than in the city."
 
 Nemai Panja, a prominent booking agent for the suburbs, informed, “In the city, Posto did exceptionally well but in the suburbs it was not that great.Not a single commercial film did big business in the suburbs in the first half of 2017.Somewhere we have lost the plot, I guess. Boss 2 and Chaamp did average business, but we expected much more from these two films.“ The other film that had a lot of potential was Durga Sohay. It has performed above average, but could have done better had it not clashed with Baahubali 2.
 
 Now with higher taxes kicking in, courtesy GST, Tollywood will have a much tougher challenge in the coming months.
 
 
 
 
