BHUBANESWAR: Alarmed by a spurt in incidents of cyber attack on software of ATMs and subsequent withdrawal of cash by miscreants, the commissionerate police and   (RBI) on Sunday asked all banks to upgrade the technology. 

 The directive coincided with an unsuccessful attempt by cyber criminals to loot cash from an ATM on   in Old Town here on Sunday. In the past two months, police found that the unidentified miscreants hacked the software of different ATMs before decamping with cash in  , Bhubaneswar,   and Puri. Police said the gang members are highly tech-savvy as they did not damage the ATMs nor left an iota of evidence after committing the offence. 
 
 "We are working on the   footages in connection with February 24 incident in a   on Janpath where around Rs 14 lakh was fraudulently withdrawn. Besides, we have got some leads in connection with March 3 incident in a   in Cuttack where around Rs 17.5 lakh were stolen," commissioner of police Y B Khurania told TOI. 
 
 Police sources said similar incidents of cybercrime were reported in an SBI ATM in Balasore on February 18 where around Rs 10 lakh was withdrawn. On March 3, the miscreants attempted to tamper with the software of ATMs of three banks in Puri. "In the Bhubaneswar and Cuttack incidents, we found poor anti-hacking systems in the affected ATMs. The banks have outsourced the ATM operations to private companies. We have issued a safety advisory to all banks to put in place an advanced technology to prevent hacking of the ATM software," Khurania said.
 
 CCTV footage of the affected ATMs showed that a group of miscreants entered the unmanned ATMs (having no security guards) in two phases. In the first phase, they hacked the server and took the system to maintenance mode. After sometime, the group re-entered and took out bulk of the cash without even breaking open the ATM. "Their exact modus operandi can be known only after arresting them. We are also in touch with some cyber experts to know the modus operandi," another police officer said. 
 
