Panaji: Goa Tourism Development Corporation ( ) has decided to introduce an app-based taxi service by bringing local tourist taxi operators on board.

 With the introduction of the app-based service, GTDC also hopes that it will be able to solve the vexed tourist taxi issue that has been plaguing the state’s tourism sector for several years. The radio taxi service for tourists will be operated on the lines of   and other such professional taxi services that have a presence in other parts of the country.
 
 “GTDC will not bring in either Uber or   to run the tourist taxi service in Goa. We will run the service by enrolling existing tourist taxi operators. We will have an aggregator  ,” chairman, GTDC, Nilesh Cabral said.
 
 “Goa must have an app-based tourist taxi service. The state’s name is getting maligned because of a few unprofessional elements,” he added. Considering stiff opposition by tourist taxi operators towards implemention of digital meters as well as allowing the entry of out-of-state taxi service operators, Cabral says GTDC has no option, but to take the bull by its horns.
 
 “The tourist taxi issue is one of the problems for slowdown in the business. While we are tackling the garbage menace, the status quo on the taxi issue remains,” he said.
 
 Cabral said he was confident that the government will be able to address the problem successfully, this time. “By the end of this month, we should able to make a move on the issue,” he said, adding that GTDC will adopt technology used by taxi services like Uber and Ola.
 
 “It is not Uber or Ola, but GTDC will run the taxi service,” said Cabral. GTDC has some experience in running a tourist taxi service. In 2014, it introduced an all-women taxi service with 10 cabs. The target customer was families and single female tourists vacationing in Goa.
 
 The concept was well-received and ran smoothly for a few months, but was mired in controversy after a couple of women tourist taxi drivers made allegations against GTDC of irregularities in payments.
 
 Though the accusations were never substantiated, GTDC’s plan to broaden its service did not materialize. GTDC had also hired an agency to train applicants to drive   and aid them in obtaining a commercial licence, but the response wasn’t impressive.
 
 The service, Cabral says, is still in operation with eight women drivers. “We face a major difficulty in getting female drivers in the state. Since our policy is to encourage local employment, we can’t hire people from outside the state. Our hands are tied,” the GTDC chairman said.
 
 Infogfx
 
 App-solute Solution?
 
 2013
 
 Tourist taxi operators take an aggressive stand after an attempt was made to bring in Ola Cabs into the state
 
 Govt forms committee to resolve the issue
 
 Despite numerous high-level meetings involving tourism stakeholders, the issue remains unsolved
 
 June 2015
 
  department issues a notification making it mandatory for tourist taxis to install GPS-enabled digital meters
 
 Decision kept on hold due to an agitation by tourist taxi operators
 
  2016
 
 Travel and tourism association of Goa (TTAG) along with other stakeholders move court seeking direction to the government to implement the notification
 
  Sept 2017 
 
 Advocate general tells court that government will introduce a policy by the end of the month to resolve issue
 
 Court posts the hearing on the TTAG petition for October
 
 
