Mumbai: The purchase order for 118 of 303   for BEST was cancelled on Thursday. The undertaking is unhappy with “faulty designs” of the body of initially delivered buses, the manufacturer has delayed deliveries and it has sanctioned civic   for only 185 buses.

 At the committee meeting on Thursday afternoon, BEST panel member Ravi Raja demanded that the administration seek an explanation from the manufacturer for the  . It is learnt that 75   have been delivered, of which at least 30 are plying. “We should impose a penalty on the manufacturer for the delivering delay and few faults in the body. This is uncalled for,” he said.
 
 Additional general manager Sanjay Bhagwat told the panel he too was unhappy with the new buses. He stated that the aluminium body had “improper finishing”. “We have told the manufacturer to rectify the fault at the earliest. We want the buses to be in good condition and last for 15 years. Also, we have sanctioned funds of Rs 90 crore from the civic corporation and can procure only 185 buses now. Since we are unhappy with the delay and the interiors, we decided to cancel the purchase order for the remaining 118," he stated.
 
 BEST has also decided to scrap 50 old buses of the same manufacturer due to “chronic failure of chassis”. The proposal to scrap the buses came up for clearance at the meeting.
 
 Each bus is being procured at a cost of Rs 55 lakh. They boast of the first-ever automatic transmission (with no clutch) for drivers, in-bus passenger announcement system, central air circulation system to beat humidity, eight mobile charging points for passengers, emergency exit door and considerable gap between seats.
 
 The entry/exit gates have been widened from 600mm to 650mm to cater to rush hour. “We have a low step height at the entrance which will help commuters board easily and there is a door locking facility which may be activated by the driver,” an official said.
 
 Bus drivers are undergoing training on auto transmission, as they will no longer have to use the clutch, which used to get damaged in the past.
 
 There is a personalised air-circulation vent for the driver, the steering wheel and driver’s seat are adjustable, there is a rear view mirror so that the driver can see every passenger, there is a passenger announcement system, and a longer mirror to view the road and oncoming vehicles from the left.
 
 Fines for violation of wet lease contracts announced
 
 BEST, keen on outsourcing 50 non-AC and 50 AC minibuses soon on wet lease, has drawn up stringent penalties to be imposed on private contractors if the buses are not provided on time or the driver is errant. A private agency will provide the bus with a driver, while BEST will arrange for the conductor and pay for fuel. For withdrawal of an AC bus for a day, the contractor will have to pay a penalty of Rs 5,000, and a driver’s misbehaviour or complaint from commuters may cost him a Rs 1,000, while late reporting of an AC minibus will cost him a Rs 1,000. The contractor will also be liable for traffic offences by the driver, officials added. 
 
