
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  Let us talk hard facts and figures that expose the   hype. Congress has never been a player in the UP polls. From being the party with about 25 seats, we have come down to seven. UP poll was about BJP vs SP vs BSP. Yes, BJP scored an impressive victory.
  
  Congress has also lost in Uttarakhand because our party had a major split before elections. In Goa, where BJP was in government, Congress won 17 seats, which is 43 per cent of the assembly's strength and BJP won 13 seats, just 32 per cent.
  
  Who did badly? In Manipur, despite a Congress government for 15 long years, we won 28 seats, which is 47 per cent of the assembly strength, whereas BJP won just 21 seats, a mere 35 per cent. So, who did badly? Yet, BJP formed governments in Goa and Manipur by offering allurements, a fact evident in ministers from non-BJP parties and defectors dominating BJP governments.
  
  In Punjab, where Akali Dal and BJP were in government, Congress won 77 seats, which is 66 per cent of the assembly against BJP’s three seats, which is 2.1 per cent of total seats. So, who did badly? So, what is BJP trumpeting about?
  
  
 
 
 
  I think the nature of politics in India, especially electoral battles, has changed. The Congress must adopt and adapt to the new grammar of electoral politics. Elections are now won by political management at booth and village levels.
  
  Congress, therefore, must focus on creating a much stronger organisational base at the booth and panchayat levels for political organisational mobilisation and for effective social engineering.
  
  
 
  Frankly, a lot of organisational weaknesses crept in when Congress was in power for 10 years till 2014 because we all had got bogged down by the nitty gritty of administrative and coalition issues, resulting in weakening the grassroots-level organisation. And BJP, having been out of power at Centre for long, had a lot of time at its disposal to strengthen its organisation.
  
  
 
  He has been working hard. It is unfair to expect Rahul Gandhi to personally go to each block and village to rebuild the party organisation. Now Rahul Gandhi should carry out major organisational restructuring.
  
  The task is for the collective leadership to show deeper commitment in reigniting our organisational energy. Congress must evolve a new creative social agenda and imaginative political plots that will appeal to the new India, the young India, and must dictate national political agenda and discourse.
  
  
 
  Rahul Gandhi is a leader with a modern and progressive outlook. He is fully tuned to, and committed to the aspirations of aspirational India, particularly of the youth, farmers, economically and socially weaker sections.
  
  
 
  No other political party in India has and can match Congress’ track record and capacity in successfully undergoing generational shifts and leadership transitions. In Congress, the experienced and young leaders have always worked together.
  
  Now Rahul Gandhi is also working with a team of experienced and young leaders by consulting all and with a cooperation of all. With my 36 years’ stint in parliament and experience in electoral politics, I may humbly remind those rushing to write us off that not only has Congress ruled India for about 50 years, but our party has also staged the maximum stunning electoral comebacks after every spell in Opposition.
  
  I have also seen BJP with just two MPs in Parliament and NDA government declaring itself unstoppable in the run up to the 2004 polls. Mark my words, the Congress will again demonstrate its resilience and its capacity to bounce back.
