Noida based   winner   has walked off with the prize money and the   10 trophy, but controversies seem to have surrounded him from all sides.
 
  Speculations around his marriage have been doing the rounds on social media, but Manveer's brother Sachin Basoya has refuted such reports saying that they are baseless.
  
  In a video posted on YouTube two days ago,   can be seen dressed like a groom in a white sherwani and a red pagdi. The video shows him with his mother Mala Devi before the ghudchadhi ceremony, and the song Chhote Chhote Bhaiyon Ke Bade Bhaiyya can be heard in the background. Some pictures of his ‘wife’ have also been shared on Twitter.
  
  Amid all this confusion, his maternal uncle Karan Singh Nagar told Times of India that Manveer is indeed married and has a one-and-a-half-year old daughter.
  
  His uncle told Times of India: "He (Manveer) was married three years ago. He also has a one-and-a-half-year-old daughter named Aashi. He never hid the fact on the show. He had shared it with Nitibha, who was trying to get close to him as well as with Lopamudra and Manu Punjabi. Even Salman bhai was told about it. There were too many intelligent people there. How did a common man rise amid them?"
  
  
 
  
  Suresh, who is married to Manveer’s cousin, says that the marriage was hidden from the public eye for a reason. “If he had gone public about his marriage, would so many girls have voted for him?” he asks.
  
  Manveer has himself called the controversy a needless publicity gimmick, Manveer says, “I am not married. Shaadi jaisi cheez aise chhup nahi sakti. I have been in the Bigg Boss house since October. Agar yeh sach hota toh ab tak kisi ne toh issue raise kiya hi hota. This has just been done by someone for cheap publicity.”
  
  But Manveer's brother Sachin Baisoya says that all these rumours are an attempt to malign his brother's image. He stated, "He has been in the public eye for four months now. If he was married, why did nobody come and claim that till now? Doing this now when he has won and is being loved by all means it’s just someone who is jealous of his achievement."
  
  
 
  
  
 
