BHOPAL: After an exhausting and unbearably high day temperature, sleepy town of   in Bundelkhand region comes alive as evening closes in on. Thousands of fans gather at a ground in district headquarters to enjoy a soccer match, part of a famous and tournament in the region. 

  tournament in Panna? Sounds strange, but true. It is not a passing fad. The town is keeping date with it for 75 years without fail and teams from across the country come to participate in a tournament, lasting around 10 days, every year. On Saturday, 8,000-odd fans reached Nazarbagh ground to cheer their local District Football Association (DFA) team.
 
 And yes, there is a prize money of Rs 1.76 lakh at stake. This time, 18 teams are testing their skills in the power game. Many teams with foreign players, especially from African countries, are contesting for first prize of Rs 1.1 lakh. The runner-up team will walk away with Rs 50,000 prize money and the team winning third spot will get Rs 25,000.
 
 After the tournament kicked off earlier this week, IPL matches hardly made any difference to its popularity, given the number of spectators. The ground is awash with light emitted by LED bulbs, fixed on a mesh of iron pipes with a jugad by local mechanics. The iron pipes are joined and welded to create poles for good illumination with the help of LED lights, said Brijendra Singh Bundela, secretary, DFA.
 
 “We have maintained the ground with lush green grass for the tournament. It is as good as any international stadium. The players are happy. Spectators are enjoying the football festival,” he said.
 
 Vijay Kacchay, coach for RBI Mumbai team, said, “I am surprised to see the lush green ground here and the atmosphere is simply electrifying with so many spectators watching the match.”
 
 Besides RBI Mumbai, teams from Asansol Railways, EIC Delhi, Mohammedan FP Kolkata,Yavatmal Maharashtra, DLF Benaras, Sunrise Lucknow, Charcha Chattisgarh from Bhilai. MP-11 from Jabalpur, Mhow and Balghat are taking part in the tournament.
 
 Teams from Mumbai and Delhi checked into AC room hotels in Panna. Other teams, lacking financial muscle, have been accommodated in a dharamshala of   temple, a huge ancient temple of Panna, constructed by the erstwhile royals.
 
 For many decades, the ex-royals were the moving spirit, organising the tournament. Not any more. For last 17 years, DFA is keeping the tradition alive. This year, National Mineral Development Corporation (NMDC) has contributed Rs 1.25 lakh. “The DFA has collected Rs 10 lakh for the tournament,” Bundela said. The finals will be played on May 24.
 
 A former footballer and DFA president Bhanupratap Singh said teams are so committed that players spend money from their pocket to reach Panna.
 
