NAGPUR: In keeping with the high voter turnout trend of Lok Sabha and Assembly elections of 2014, it was expected that at least 60% of the electorate would exercise their franchise in the   elections. But a below 55% vote could impact the outcome increasing chances of close fights with tiny victory margins.

 However, no major political party was ready to accept that the less than expected voting percentage would affect them. “Our reports from each booth indicate that we will comfortably win more than 80 seats this time,” BJP poll in-charge and MLC Anil Sole told TOI hours after the polling ended for 151-seat NMC on Tuesday. BJP functionary Dr Upendra Kothekar said BJP was on way to good wins in Akola as well as Amravati corporations.
 
 Sole agreed that the large-scale discrepancies in voter list, the missing names and members of one family finding themselves in different lists had definitely left a good number of voters without chance to vote. “Had the voter lists been perfect, another 5% more votes being polled was possible,” Sole said. He also blamed the division of prabhags for the confusion. “In any case urban voting (in NMC) is always around 50%. There could be many reasons, like change of address, disinterest to check electoral rolls in time,” Sole summed up. “But we are wining with handsome leads,” he added.
 
 Not ready to yield, Congress veteran   who played crucial role in NMC poll management for his party said: “Wait for a surprise. Our initial estimates tell us we will win at least 65 seats,” he said. “The BJP winning 100 or more seats would be possible only if the ruling party manipulated the EVMs. The turnout was low in BJP/RSS dominated areas of Mahal and  , so how can they win more seats,” asked Muttemwar.
 
 “Low turnout always goes against the ruling party,” claimed city   president Satish Harde. He said the Sena could win at least nine seats, and all at the cost of BJP. “If the BJP wins less than 75 seats, they may have to depend on our support again to retain control on NMC” said Harde.
 
 NCP city head Anil Deshmukh was not ready to give a firm figure but said his party contesting for first time on its own in city civic polls could “enter double digits,” 
 
 BSP’s Krushna Bele said the low turnout would benefit them as the committed BSP voter never fails to turn up. “BSP should win at least 20 seats. We may hold the key to power in NMC.” he added. However, he was candid to blame candidates of all parties for not ensuring that the electoral lists were error free. “It is their duty to make proper changes when objections are invited. There is no use shooting hoarsely on the polling day about missing names,” said Bele.
 
 
