MYSURU: Reverend K A   will be ordained as seventh  , which comprises four districts of Karnataka — Mysuru, Mandya, Kodagu and Chamarajanagar — at the Episcopal Ordination and Installation ceremony at St Philomena’s Church on Monday. 

 Bishop Emeritus Reverend   will officiate the ordination, while Bengaluru Archbishop Reverend Bernard Moras and Chikkamagaluru Bishop Reverend T Anthony Swamy, will be the co-consecrators. This will be followed by a felicitation ceremony for the new Bishop William, and the former Bishop, Thomas Anthony Vazhapilly. 
 
 The bishop is the spiritual head of all Catholic Churches in the four districts. As many as 180 Parishes, 131 Diocesan priests, 23 male Religious and 55 female religious congregations in six deaneries, apart from 136 educational institutes fall under the Mysuru Diocese. 
 
 William was appointed bishop for the diocese by Pope Francis, and the announcement was made on January 25, 2017. 
 
 His ordination is likely to witness the participation of 25 bishops from Karnataka, and neighbouring dioceses, in addition to 500 priests, sisters and other key members from the parishes. The Pro-nuncio, the Papal Ambassador to India, and district in-charge minister H C Mahadevappa, local MLAs and MPs have also been extended invitations. 
 
 “The ordination ceremony will commence at 4.30pm on Monday,” said Reverend Leslie Moras here on Saturday. Thomas Vazhapilly, who resigned on turning 75, the maximum age to hold any posts, served as bishop for 14 years from 2003. Thomas will be Bishop Emeritus of Mysuru and will continue stay here at Prashantha Nilaya, a home for retired clergy of the diocese. 
 
 About new bishop 
 
 Reverend William, a native of Polibetta, Kodagu, was educated in Mysuru. He did his schooling at Good Shepherd Convent (elementary), St Mary’s (primary) and St Philomena’s (High School) and completed his pre-univerity education from St Philomena’s college. William joined the seminary and completed theological studies from St Mary’s Minor seminary, Mysuru, and St Peter’s Pontifical seminary, Bengaluru. William has done his master’s degree in Canon Law and Christianity. 
 
 William was ordained a priest on May 18, 1993 and has served as parish priest of St Thomas Church, Thomayarapalaya and Our Lady of Lourdes Church, Martalli, Kollegala and at Our of Lady of Lourdes church, Gundlupet, Chamarajanagar and the Holy Family Church, Hinkal, Mysuru, St Philomena’s church and St Joseph’s church Jayalakshmipuram. He was the financial administrator and chancellor of the diocese for six years. William was secretary of Mysuru diocese educational society.
 
 William worked hard to get funds to the tune of Rs 5.5 crore from government for the renovation of St Philomena’s Church, a popular tourist spot. The work on the church is under way. The Reverend has also composed a number of hymns that have been brought out in CDs. 
 
 
