LUCKNOW: While the 15-day-old Yogi government is all set to hold its first cabinet meeting on Tuesday, it is yet overcome a formidable challenge—overhauling of bureaucracy. 

  Yogi Adityanath has posted just one   officer in his secretariat so far and with a large part of state’s bureaucracy politically divided between two parties—SP and BSP— for 15 years, it is very difficult for him to select ‘neutral’   who could get the party’s ‘sankalp patra’ implemented.
 
 When the   stormed into power and formed the government on March 19, CM Yogi didn’t show any hurry to change the key bureaucrats and place ‘loyal’ officers as witnessed in previous regimes. 
 
 When SP would come to power, a fixed set of bureaucrats would automatically start working in the CM secretariat. Similarly, when Mayawati came to power in 2007, Shashank Shekhar Singh had started acting as his most trusted officer while orders to appoint him as cabinet secretary were issued much later.
 
 Some top bureaucrats and retired ones TOI spoke to about the reason for the delay in the bureaucratic reshuffle feel that the first dilemma before the CM was to select neutral officers who do not have their commitment or loyalties to the two parties. Besides, unlike SP and BSP which have support of the OBC and Dalits respectively, the BJP this has a rainbow coalition of castes, so it will have to give adequate representation to officers of all the castes in key positions. Moreover, Yogi is getting recommendation from different pressure groups for postings, but since he is known to be assertive and has a style of independent functioning, he has resisted them so far, causing delay in the selection.
 
 Another reason for the delay is the fact that Yogi’s recommendation to the Centre for certain officers has so far not been accepted. About 10 days ago, Yogi had asked chief secretary Rahul Bhatnagar to get Awanish Awasthi relieved from his central posting, but the Modi government has yet not obliged.
 
  Since Awasthi was reportedly to be posted as principal secretary to the CM, the constitution of the CM secretariat is being delayed. 
 
 Names of Rajnikant Mishra and Rajiv Kumar, on the other hand, are doing the rounds for the post of the DGP and chief secretary, but nothing has materialised so far. Both are at present on central deputation.
 
 
