PUNE: Shivajinagar resident   (50) keenly followed political leaders' speeches and poll assurances made during campaigns before choosing which candidate would get his precious vote. Like Jadhav, several other citizens undertook considerable research before stepping into  . 

 The city witnessed an aggressive campaign, particularly over the last 15 days, as candidates and parties made tall promises. While BJP banked on the Metro rail, Smart City and river clean-up projects, its rival NCP claimed flyovers,   and better roads were major works that it set in motion for the city. Despite a short campaign period, voters saw hectic political activity as candidates reached out to as many people with promises to resolve local issues.
 
 "The campaigning picked up pace in the last leg. Workers from almost all major parties visited our area. Even candidates made quick visits over the last four days. The agenda gave us a fair idea of what political parties think about development," said  , a resident of Shanivar Peth.
 
 Habib Shaikh, a resident of Tadiwala road added that candidates promised to resolve issues pertaining to encroachments and implement slum rehabilitation schemes. "Let's see how many promises are executed," he said.
 
 For voters, the most common expectations were related to regular water supply, better roads and decent public transport. Ambegaon resident Ganesh Jadhav said that his area still does not have 24-hour water supply and the local corporator will need to consider the issue on priority. "I asked every party worker to address the water issue and ensure better public transport facilities to reach the city's main areas," Jadhav said.
 
 On the other hand, party leaders considered the process quite tough. "Candidates were left with only 10 to 14 days to campaign as parties announced their lists late. We made a major effort to reach out to voters," said BJP worker Vishal Deshmukh.
 
 An NCP worker said his party was the first to declare a poll agenda, manifesto and list of candidates. The candidates were able to reach out to voters through road shows, interactions and SMSs, he said.
 
