NEW DELHI: When the state   is presented by Delhi government, expectedly in the first week of March, there will be a major departure from earlier practices. In line with the Union budget which will, for the first time, do away with the ‘plan’ and ‘non-plan’ heads for budgetary allocations, the Aam Aadmi Party government too will categorise the budget numbers under the heads of ‘capital’ and ‘revenue’ expenditures.

 In a tweet on Friday, deputy chief minister and finance minister   said, “Delhi government’s next budget would be only in Capital and Revenue allocations. There would be no Plan, Non-plan budget segments. Taking a joint meeting of all the officers of Planning, Statistics and Finance departments to prepare this systematic reform. These three departments have also been directed to develop constant evaluation and monitoring mechanism for entire government functions.”
 
 Government officials pointed out that the Centre had asked all states to implement this change by 2017-18. “Earlier, all expenditure was classified under plan and non-plan, with the latter including all recurring expenditures, like salaries,” explained an official. Elaborating he said, “The construction of a school building would be classified under the ‘plan’ head while its maintenance would be ‘non-plan’. Similarly, the hiring of a teacher would be under ‘plan’ while his or her salary would be under ‘non-plan’.”
 
 In times of contingency, when funds needed to be diverted, it would often be done from non-plan allocations, adversely affecting the work for which the money was allotted. 
 
 Under the new system, all expenditures that result in asset creation will fall under the ‘capital expenditure’ head, while recurring expenses will come under the ‘revenue expenditure’ head. “With this, expenditures such as salaries will be accounted for at the outset,” said the official.
 
 The 2017 Delhi budget is also expected to be presented in the first week of March. This, said sources, had been necessitated by the need to hold elections to the municipal corporations likely in April.
 
 
