He was an ordinary batsman who scored only five runs in his debut Ranji match against Rajasthan in 2015. But Mohit Ahlawat’s record score of 300 and not out in a local T20 match made him a star overnight. Mohit, who hails from Panipat and studies in DU’s SGTB Khalsa College, made history when he became the first batsman to score a triple century in a T20 match.

 "When I scored 300, I did not think much about it. I was focusing on my match. But the response that I got after the match was unbelievable," says Mohit, who scored the runs in a local T20 tournament, called Friends Premier League, in Laxminagar’s   on Tuesday.
 
  
  
  
 Ever since the news came out that a Delhi boy has scored 300 in a local tournament, many people have also questioned the size and quality of the field. According to reports, the Lalita Park is "a multi-purpose ground with irregular dimensions" and "at least five full Lalita Parks can be fitted into the Melbourne Cricket Ground." The tournament is also not recognized by the Delhi and District Cricket Association.
 
  Responding to those questioning his feat, Mohit says, "72 balls mein 300 runs banana koi chhoti cheez nahin hai. Match toh baaki 22 khiladi bhi khel rahe thay na? Toh unhone kyun nahin banaye? Aise toh aur bhi matches hote aaye hain, toh aaj tak kyun nahin bana yeh score? Agar 300 runs koi bhi bana sakta hai toh bas mere hi kyun bane?"
 
  
  Badal pe paon hain:   at LB Shastri Cricket Club, Bharat Nagar   Ground, where he has been practicing for the last four years (BCCL)
 
  
 
 After scoring only five runs for the Delhi Ranji team in 2015, Mohit was dropped from the team last year, and replaced with Rishabh Pant, who made his debut in the Indian T20 International Squad for the England series this year. But Mohit’s record 300 runs turned things around for him. Not only has he been called for the Ranji trials this year, but the   has also called him for a trial. He tells us, "Last year, I was dropped from the Ranji team and Rishabh Pant was given my place. Pant ko chance mila aur ab woh Indian team mein bhi select ho gaya. Agar maine 2015 mein run banaye hote, toh shayad main ho jata select."
 
  About getting called for the Ranji trials, Mohit says, "Iss saal mera Ranji team mein naam nahin tha, par ab trials ke liye bulaya gaya hai."
 
  
  Pic: Twitter/ UPStatsman
 
  
 
 Mohit, who is a student of BA (Programme) at Khalsa College, says, "I have been playing for my college’s team as well. And the college has been really supportive. Main college bahut kam jata hoon kyunki saara time cricket mein hi lag jata hai. My focus is on cricket, but it is important to have a degree also." He adds that this new score means that he needs to work harder and live up to the expectations of his family and coach. "Ab aur zyada mehnat karni hai aur Ranji team mein jagah banani hai," he says.
 
  About his cricketing idol, Mohit says, "I follow MS Dhoni. I follow his techniques and temperament. Woh pressure wale matches ko bhi itni smoothly nikal dete hain. Aisa presence of mind hona chahiye. Ek cricketer ke liye sabse badi baat hoti hai apni country ko represent karna. Woh toh karna hi hai, aur saath mein Dhoni jaisa captain banna hai."
 
 
