Salem: A team of police officials from Chennai on Tuesday arrested three persons, two of them women, in Salem for kidnapping a newborn baby girl from Rajiv Gandhi government hospital in Park Town and rescued the baby.

 According to the Chennai police, K Manimekalai, 24, of Chengam in Tiruvannamalai district, delivered a baby girl about 15 days ago at the government hospital in Egmore. During her stay in the hospital, she became friends with Sumithra, a hospital staff. Manimekalai sought Sumithra’s help for a job in any government hospital saying that she was separated from her husband and has to take care of herself and the baby. 
 
 Sumithra agreed to arrange for a job and introduced her relative D Manimekalai to the woman, the officials from Pookkadai police station in Chennai said. 
 
 Both Sumithra and her relative took the mother and the new born to the Rajiv Gandhi government hospital saying they have arranged a job for her there. 
 
 When they reached the hospital, the duo asked Manimekalai to undergo a medical test. “The woman handed over the newborn to the duo and went inside the hospital for medical test. When she returned the duo, along with her baby, was missing,” the police said.
 
 Realizing that she was cheated, the woman lodged a complaint with the Pookkadi police.
 
 After verifying the CCTV footage, the police came to know that the baby was kidnapped by Sumithra, her relative and her husband Deenadhayalan. By tracing the mobile phone signals and getting other evidences, the police tracked their location to Salem.
 
 They came to Salem on Tuesday and nabbed the culprits from a house in SMC Colony near Old bus stand with the help of the Salem city police. 
 
 “The trio came to Salem from Chennai on Tuesday morning and we arrested them based on their confessional statement,” the police team said. The trio, they said, was hiding at Deenadhayalan’s sister house in Salem.
 
 One of the accused, D Manimekalai, initially threatened the police saying she was an advocate practicising at the Madras high court. However, during inquiry, police came to know that she was not an advocate. 
 
 
