PUNE: The estimated project cost of the proposed   at   taluka would be between Rs12,000 crore and Rs13,000 crore, a top official of the   Limited said.

 Vishwas M. Patil, the vice-chairman-cum-managing director of the Maharashtra Airport Development Company Limited (MADC), told TOI that unlike the Navi Mumbai airport, which had to deal with some geographical issues, the proposed airport at Purandar was an easier assignment.
 
 “The airport in Purandar is an important project and we believe that its cost will not be higher than Rs12,000 crore. Unlike the proposed Navi Mumbai Airport, the land in Purandar is plain and does not need any tweaking. We are aiming for a well-built airport with all facilities without having to deal with very high costs,” Patil said.
 
 The estimated cost of the Navi Mumbai Airport, first conceptualized and planned in 2007, at present rests at Rs16,704 crore. With geographical and environmental issues plaguing it, the City and Industrial Development Corporation of Maharashtra Limited on Monday decided to extend the date for closing the financial bids for the project by a fortnight.
 
 Officials at the MADC stressed the proposed airport in Purandar was unlikely to face issues like that of Navi Mumbai.
 
 “There have been some protests, but the government has almost finalized an attractive   package for the landowners. We do not see the project running into a major problem in the near future. But that does not mean that MADC or the local district administration are taking things easy,” an official requesting anonymity said.
 
 Earlier this month, qualified bidders raised doubts about the timeline and cost factor of the Navi Mumbai project. Sources claimed that it would take at least six years to complete the project. The City and Industrial Development Corporation of Maharashtra Limited claimed that one runway would be operational by 2019 and the entire airport would be ready in the following year.
 
 Contrary to this, Patil, during an interaction with the media earlier last month, had said the new Pune airport would be ready before the Navi Mumbai project. It would be operational by 2019, he had said.
 
 Named Chhatrapati Sambhajiraje International Airport, the facility at Purandar would have two airstrips. It would handle cargo with passenger traffic. Its detailed project report would be ready within three to four months.
 
 
