Kolkata/Siliguri: A 10-hour-long tripartite meeting on Darjeeling tea industry held in Siliguri on Thursday ended at 12.30am on Friday with an agreement being reached on paying “19.75%   in instalments”, according to the official of a top producers’ body.

 Arijit Raha, secretary general of Indian Tea Association (ITA), the largest tea producers’ body in India, who was present at the meeting, told TOI: “Yes. An agreement with the workers’ body has been signed. It’s 19.75% bonus, 50% of which will be given within seven days of normalcy (resumption of work). The balance amount will be decided at a meeting on October 14. Despite the low cash reserve owing to the huge crop losses this year, the garden owners will pay bonuses as per the fixed formula.”
 
 There was, however, little clarity from the workers’ unions on when the three-month-long strike will end. The issue of reopening the gardens hangs in the balance as the Bimal Gurung-led GJM is yet to give its nod to this, said a source. Around 1 lakh workers are registered with the 87 tea gardens in the Hills. 
 
 During Thursday’s meeting, a section of the producers’ bodies did not fully agree to the “bonus formula”, citing the ongoing cash crunch amid the strike. Incidentally, the producers’ body of Dooars and Terai have already fixed 19.75% bonus for their workers for 2016-17. Last year,   had received a bonus of 20% of their daily wage.
 
 On why garden owners will pay bonus in instalments this year, a producer told TOI on condition of anonymity that there was little cash in hand while banks were not open and bonus books were not ready. “Who will give us guarantee that workers will rejoin work after getting bonus? I don’t believe that only a bonus announcement will work as a carrot.”
 
 Also present at the meeting were secretary general of Darjeeling Tea Association (DTA), the state labour commissioner and assistant labour commissioner who gave inputs on the bonus issue.
 
 CM Mamata Banerjee had on September 18 urged all stakeholders — owners, workers and political outfits — to take part in the Siliguri meeting and take a “final decision” on the bonus and the strike.
 
 
