NEW DELHI: BJP’s performance in the   in Maharasthra has boosted the morale of its Delhi unit that is getting ready for the civic polls in the capital. Party members said this result, after demonetisation, showed people’s support for the Centre’s decisions and it would help the party retain its turf in Delhi despite a strong anti-incumbency wave.

  chief   on Thursday reconstituted its core committee, which, after BJP President Amit Shah’s approval, will prepare the strategy for the municipal elections. “The core committee of senior leaders will decide about party affairs with full coordination for the municipal polls,” said Tiwari. The civic elections, likely to be held in April, will be a “referendum on the AAP government’s performance”. BJP will project the central government’s achievements and tell people how the AAP government has paralysed the BJP-led corporations. 
 
 The core committee includes MPs, former state unit presidents, organisation general secretary and national-level functionaries. An exception has been made to include Delhi unit members who played crucial roles in the 2013 and 2015 elections, said sources.
 
 The party has decided to first complete the process to appoint ‘panchparmeshwars’ for each of the 13,372 booths in Delhi. “They will be called ‘panchparmeshwars’ as these five will be in charge of all activities related to a booth. We will complete the process by the end of this month,” said  , South Delhi MP.
 
 A large-scale meeting of these ‘panchparmeshwars’ will be addressed by Shah in early March. Sources said the final date would depend on the availability of senior functionaries busy with the UP elections. Sources said that in UP, too, six rallies were organised to motivate the booth-level workers. BJP is expecting close to 50,000-60,000 booth workers to attend the Delhi rally.
 
 With AAP and   also getting ready for the process of candidate selection, BJP is likely to expedite the process of setting up various committees in the next few days. “The committees have to be set up for candidate selection, manifesto preparations, election management, finance, publicity, media management, etc,” said a member.
 
 BJP is trying to strengthen its base in slum clusters and unathorised colonies, both considered AAP strongholds. These areas have a sizeable   population and post-delimitation, the number of wards in these areas have gone up considerably.
 
 
