COLVA:   hatchlings attempting baby steps at Mobor beach drew  , as many locals were fascinated to see the   wriggle out of the nests and crawl to the sea.

 A total of 51 Olive Ridley hatchlings were released in the Arabian Sea on Thursday and Friday. 
 
 Mobor, in Cavelossim, is not a regular turtle nesting site. Morjim and Mandrem in Pernem, and Agonda and Galgibaga in Canacona are the popular turtle nesting sites and a few nests are laid annually during the season.
 
 It was fisherman   who was credited for protecting the nest at Mobor. More hatchlings are expected to emerge from the nest in the next few days.
 
 Nearly two months ago, while walking along the beach, D’Costa said he saw a couple of dogs furiously digging the sand. Drawing closer, he found some egg shells. He realized that there could be a turtle nest there.
 
 D’Costa, who is also a water sports operator, immediately called his son and employees to the site. All of them carried the eggs and buried them at the present site.
 
 They then erected a fence using a fishing net to keep intruders and dogs away. D’Costa personally monitored the site and even kept vigil at night, with the help of his employees.
 
 The hatching process began at around 9pm on Friday. As the hatchlings began surfacing, guards and locals lifted the nets to allow them to crawl out. But, they started moving in the opposite direction of the sea, distracted by the lights from the resort,nearby. Forest guards discouraged people from disturbing the hatching process with their camera lights.
 
 The hatchlings were then gently scooped them up and released into the  , barely 10 metres away from the water. Onlookers watched as four more surfaced from the nest.
 
 A total of 25 hatchlings were released on Friday. On Thursday, locals told STOI they had released 26 such hatchlings into the ocean.
 
 D’Costa said that he had monitored another nest last season and released 76 hatchlings. “Whenever turtles get trapped in our nets we release them,” he said.
 
 Hatchlings are usually guided to the sea by moonlight or by the sound of waves. But, now lights and music from the shacks and resorts distract them. “They are unable to judge the direction and need human assistance,” he said.
 
