The pace with which some institutes of M S University are launching courses these days, many wonder whether there will be a time when the university will also have a course on chocolate, rose or traditional day. This may sound weird but there are some institutes without proper academic bodies which are rolling out courses every fortnight. In the recent past, the university launched a course on hygiene to mark ‘Swachchh Bharat Abhiyan’ and a course on Yoga to mark International Yoga Day. It wouldn't have been a cause of concern if these courses had been rolled out after proper thought process. For the record, most of these courses have had a short life on the campus.

 Razing, a relief for cops
 
 It is not just the commuters who are heaving a sigh of relief after many encroachments were removed from the old city areas. Even traffic policemen are happy as managing the traffic flow has become easier for them. With demolition of fire brigade building and broadening of narrow streets, the roads now appear decongested. Police officials said if the Padmavati shopping complex is razed, it will pave the way for smoother traffic flow and the area around Sursagar Lake too can be beautified.
 
 Time to paint the walls
 
 Most roadside food kiosks and handcarts popularly called ‘laaris’ in the city used to operate near compound walls of various institutes like the Vaccine Institute, MSU Polytechnic, GSRTC divisional office and others. With the street vendors being ousted by the civic body, one can now see the mess they have left behind. The walls are stained with oil or fumes of stoves used by the vendors. Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) that is on a drive to beautify the city may consider doing something with these walls too.
 
 Old ‘adda’ but new side
 
 It would seem that the demolition of Pravasi Gruh and, partially, Pathik Bhavan took away the post-midnight ‘adda’ of many nocturnal people of Banyan City. Before the civic body brought down the half portion of the building opposite railway station, the other side of the station used to wear a deserted look after midnight. Except a few trucks of private courier companies, no vehicles would be seen on Faramji Road. A complex too stood there but it did not have any eateries except a tea stall and a small restaurant. But, now it looks as if somebody has given a new life to that road. The shops that did not have any takers are now all occupied by restaurateurs and one can see all of them packed even at midnight. People still say that their ‘adda’ is outside the railway station, it’s just that the side has changed.
 
 
