PUNE: The   (PCB), in a desperate revenue push, has now planned a   across 3.5 acres it controls near the   close to  

 According to preliminary plans, it would entail the shifting of washermen and the washing lines, structures that came up in the mid-1800s, and supported families across generations.
 
 Board officials said this move is to “stop encroachment” on the plot of land in the area, which also has a crematorium, and is under management of the PCB, labelled as Class C. They admitted that the plans have been boosted due to want of revenue.
 
 “After the goods and services tax (GST) mechanism is operationalized from July, we will lose out on a chunk of revenue, especially from local body tax and vehicle entry tax. So we need to gather every bit of revenue that we can generate independently. Such a commercial complex will help us gather revenue, and also stop the encroachment that has happened on the land all the time,” a senior PCB official said. 
 
 He added that if funds are not available to the PCB to construct the complex, a build-operate-transfer (BOT) model may be considered. Plans for a commercial complex in the area operated by the PCB are not new. Such a plan made the rounds a decade ago, but was shelved for the want of land.
 
 According to officials, banks in Pune pay a rent of about Rs 50 per square foot of space per month. They added that entire floors will be offered to the tenants.
 
 Some workers in the washermen’s line said they will not move unless facilities at a new location are up to the mark.
 
 “Our families have worked here for generations. It is true that the people who come to work here are declining, but it still supports a lot of people. The board should not shift us too far, and must give us good and clean facilities to work and live in,” washerman Dilip Ambeb said.
 
 PCB officials said the project will not go forward without rehabilitating the washermen community. “We have already identified vacant land where they can be shifted, and all the washing lines and living quarters can be shifted there, which is just south of their current place. So far, we have not faced any opposition. But our board will go act only if the workers are rehabilitated,” a PCB official further added.
 
