NEW DELHI: Hours after   student and daughter of a martyr   
  from the anti-ABVP campaign, minister of state for home   said she was free to say and do what she wants and should be left alone as per her wish. 

 Rijiju also hit back at those criticising him for asking who was polluting Gurmehar's mind, saying that he stood by his tweet and was only speaking his mind. "(When I say) somebody (is polluting her mind), I mean the Leftists," he said.
 
 "It were these Leftists who celebrated when   personnel were martyred in the 1962 (Indo-China) war, and raised anti-national slogans. But now, whoever makes anti-national statements will be dealt firmly under the law. Everybody has freedom of expression but must act as per the laws of the country," he added.
 
  
  
 
 
 Highlighting that Gurmehar was the daughter of a martyr, Rijiju, as quoted by ANI, even said the martyr's "soul must be weeping on seeing his daughter being misguided by those who celebrate the bodies of martyrs".
 
 Asked about Gurmehar's decision to step back from the anti-ABVP protest on DU campus, Rijiju said: "She has the freedom to speak her mind. She has all the right to do whatever she wants. So don't disturb her."
 
 On her reported decision to leave Delhi for the time being, Rijiju said that Delhi is a safe city and she should have nothing to fear. "That's (to leave Delhi) her choice. She should be protected and will be protected," he said.
 
 Speaking later at the sidelines of an event in the home ministry, he said: "Her security is our priority. No one should be threatened or harmed. If someone threatens a person on social media, action shall be initiated against him/her. Delhi Police has been told (about alleged rape threat to Gurmehar). We take full responsibility of her security". 
 
 Asked if anybody from the government would reach out to the 20-year-old student and reassure her to return to Delhi, Rijiju said: "I can't force her. She is a free girl. If she can speak whatever she wants, why should anyone pressurise her where to stay and where not to stay".
 
 "My request to everybody is let her have her own way of life," he added.
 
 Welcoming the 
  by the Delhi Police regarding the alleged rape threat issued to Gurmehar, Rijiju said: "Anybody who has used such language must be identified. May be someone from a fake account has done this".
 
 Warning opposition parties not to use students to target the Modi government, the MoS said: "I want to tell Congress and Arvind Kejriwal not to instigate young students. Studies are the top priority in colleges and university and they should not disrupt the environment there. Youngsters are free to speak and do what they want but they must not speak against the nation". 
 
 
