Gurgaon: After a Faridabad-based   raised an alarm on Wednesday about alleged tree-felling by   village panchayat for a community hall, the forest department has carried out an inspection in the area.

 TOI visited the area and found that at least 60 trees, fully and partially grown, were   with the help of an earthmover reportedly without permission from the forest department.
 
 “The panchayat has not taken any kind of permission from any department and has levelled the land already. The trees cut have also been disposed of so that there is no proof,” said Jitender Bhadana from  , an NGO.
 
 Bhadana also alleged that a member of parliament was involved in the case.
 
 “The foundation stone of the community centre was laid by an MP and the village sarpanch also mentioned that the MP was directly involved so there won’t be any roadblock for the project,” he added.
 
 While Bhadana claimed that 100 trees have been cut, sources in the forest department said they found out only 12- 13 trees were cut, after an inspection a few days back.
 
 “On Wednesday, we received a complaint for the second time that earth-moving machine was being used to clear land in the area. I instructed the district forest officer to form a team and go to the spot for an inspection,” said MD Sinha, conservator of forests (Gurgaon circle).
 
 Sinha said if the village panchayat is found violating the norms, then the forest department will inform the district administration.
 
 The area in question is located a few kilometres away from Mangar Bani, a dense forest patch which is considered one of the last remaining virgin forest areas in Delhi-NCR region. The land falls under general section 4 of the Punjab Land Preservation Act (PLPA) 1990.
 
 Cutting trees without approval from the authorities concerned is illegal.
 
  “There is an urgent need to implement laws similar to The Delhi Preservation of Trees Act, 1994, to impose strict penalties and punishment as we can’t afford to lose a single tree in the city,” said Bhadana.
 
