Mysuru: An en masse deletion of   by the food, civil supplies and consumer affairs department – nearly 80,000 cards that were not linked to Aadhaar were deleted across the seven taluks in Mysuru – has saved the exchequer from a monthly sum of nearly Rs 1.68 crore. The drive against unlinked ration cards was initiated in April by then Mysuru assistant commissioner CL Ananda, who was given additional responsibility as the in-charge deputy director for food and civil supplies department.

 Documents available with TOI indicate that the drive was started by Ananda on April 1, who managed to crack down on 80,000 fake ration card holders in the span of one month. Although it has been three months since the drive was held, none of the affected members has approached the food and civil supplies department seeking redressal, thereby raising suspicions over their   (BPL) status. 
 
 All   are entitled to seven kilos of free rice each month. Even at the government’s nominal prices, rice is sold at Rs 30 per kg. Consequently, the distribution of free rice to those not eligible for the benefit thus resulted in a loss amounting to Rs 1.68 crore.
 
 Ananda initiated the drive following the transfer of food and civil supplies deputy director K Rameshwarappa from Mysuru during the bypolls to the Nanjangud and Gundlupet assembly segments. Rameshwarappa was transferred after the BJP filed a complaint with the Election Commission of India (ECI). The ECI subsequently issued directions to the government to transfer the official during the polls.
 
 It was also learnt during the drive that, of the seven taluks in the district, KR Nagar taluk was receiving 42,000 litres of kerosense, while the other taluks were being supplied just 80 to 100 litres. The department immediately identified defaulters in KR Nagar and Periyapatna, who had LPG connections, but had been availing of kerosense at subsidised prices. Nearly 18,000 kerosene cards were annulled in the two taluks in April.
 
 It was also uncovered that nearly 3.45 lakh litres of palm oil, and 487 quintals of greengram, which were stored in godowns, were on the verge of expiry. To ensure that these commodities reached the rightful beneficiaries, Ananda wrote to the secretary of the food, civil supplies and consumer affairs secretary Harsh Gupta in May requesting him to distribute them to government hostels and schools towards mid-day meal schemes.
 
 However, the government appointed Rameshwarappa as deputy director for the department in Mysuru, citing administrative reasons. Ananda, meanwhile, was transferred to North Karnataka. Rameshwarappa told TOI, “Nearly 19 lakh ration cards have been linked to Aadhaar in Mysuru. The department has received nearly 94,700 applications for new ration cards, which are being reviewed. We are expecting nearly three lakh new ration card holders in the next few months.”
 
 
