Women voicing their opinions in a predominantly patriarchal society, has always evoked mixed reactions. While some are irked by the comments, some are happy to find these hopeful, fearless voices. And if the woman happens to be from the glamour industry, sometimes things can go out of control. But then there are many brave hearts who have never backed out when it comes to voicing their opinions without mincing their words. Here’s taking a look at Hollywood’s brave new brigade who have time and again openly expressed their views on   in Hollywood, nonchalantly:

 
 
 The
  actress recently addressed the issue of gender inequality that’s been prevalent in Hollywood, asserting that every year, at every award ceremony it’s all about the movies made by the male bastion, while there’s minority when it comes to women’s voices. The actress further clarified that while she “enjoys movies made by men”, there aren’t enough films that portray strong female characters, excluding them from being a part of greater opportunities.
 
  
  
 
 
 
    has fearlessly voiced her opinions about various matters, including gender inequality. 
 actor said that there have been times when “my dialogues were given to male costars or they edited/ deleted my scenes.” The actress further added, that there had been times when “I was considered ‘hindrance’ in the process of film making by giving inputs.”
 
  
  
 
 
  J-Law has been quite vocal about gender inequality in Hollywood, especially about the huge difference in the wages between male and female actors. 
  actress was quoted saying that while she “did try to talk and negotiate the stark pay difference and increase her remuneration” she didn’t want to come across as ‘difficult’ while talking about moolah matters. She also added that she’s given up trying to find ‘adorable' ways to get her message through and has been direct.
  
  
 
  The 
  actress who has worked extensively for the upliftment of women and providing them with education. Emma Watson who is also a UN Women Goodwill Ambassador, was quoted saying that in her career so far she has been directed by 17 male directors and only twice by women; out of 13 producers only one was female. “However, most of the problems I have encountered have been in the media, where I have been treated so incredibly differently from my male co-stars.”
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 K-Stew, known to speak her opinions out loud, has spoken about gender inequality when it comes to roles and wages in Hollywood, said on record, “It’s a male-dominated and driven business...You need to make something that's undeniably good. If a woman makes a bad movie, or does something stupid, then the door just slams shut. It’s f***** up.” She also added that if women wants to see the change then “we have to make sure that we make the change happen.”
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
