Twenty four hours before the final clash, somewhere on the rooftop of the hotel that   Sports Club were housed, there was a genuine look of surprise on the interviewer’s face.
 
  “You can draw your own conclusions but I have absolutely no doubt that we will win. Maybe some people don’t give us all the credit we deserve. Maybe, they are all ignoring us at their own peril. We know that we are the best team in the country and I think soon everyone will recognise that,”   said during an interview with the broadcasters.
  
  Just like the interviewer’s surprised face, reaction on the street to the interview was no different. Wherever the Salgaocar Sports Club’s star striker went that morning, everyone stopped to tell him he was wrong. Bruno was cool, calm and quiet, despite opting to swim against the tide.
  
  A few days earlier,   had rocked Indian   with a 4-1 demolition of Mohun Bagan in the semifinals of the Federation Cup.   was the star of that 1997 Federation Cup semifinal win in a match which created a record for being the single highest attended sporting event in India, thanks to a capacity 1,31,000 crowd that thronged the Salt Lake Stadium.
  
  East Bengal fans were dancing with glee and Bhutia was the cynosure of all eyes after being the only footballer to have ever scored a hat-trick during the derby. With so much in favour of East Bengal, did Salgaocar – with all respect to Bruno and his prowess -- really stand a chance?
  
  Not really. Except for the Salgaocar SC players, president Shivanand Salgaocar, a close friend who accompanied him for the match, and three Goans who landed at the Salt Lake stadium by chance, nobody fancied the away team coming up trumps against the hosts, backed by a vociferous crowd of more than one lakh partisan supporters.
  
  It was as if winning against Salgaocar was a mere formality for East Bengal and it was only a matter of 90 minutes before the Federation Cup would be annexed, officially.
  
  When the match kicked off, the stadium was packed to capacity. Television commentators kept repeating that there were over a hundred thousand spectators, without ever giving the exact figures. There were definitely more.
  
  On the field, East Bengal attacked in droves but Salgaocar’s defensive quartet of Franky Barreto, Robert Fernandes, Seby Coelho and Roque Pereira stood its ground. When the initial euphoria had died down, Salgaocar grew in confidence and soon enough Bruno gave the team a deserving lead in the first session itself with a thunderous drive.
  
  Then, quite expectedly, all hell broke loose.
  
  “It was scary,” remembers club president Shivanand Salgaocar.
  
  “I was watching the match with Tony Sabherwal, a friend of mine from Calcutta. We were all in the VIP box, including the sports minister and the IGP, who was known to my friend. When Bruno scored the first goal, I cheered and jumped with joy. You should have seen the reaction on every other face; It was as if I had landed from another planet. They gave me such terrifying looks,” Salgaocar recollects in Footprints in the Sand, a commemorative book that celebrates the 60-year history of the club.
  
  With so much of crowd support, East Bengal were, understandably, not giving up so easily and finally drew level through Kenyan defender Samuel Omollo, who was left unmarked in the 83rd minute during a corner.
  
  For those backing Salgaocar, it turned worse.
  
  “When East Bengal equalised, their supporters almost jumped across the railing into the VIP box to attack me. It was very traumatising. The IGP, sensing danger, requested me and my friend to move away from the VIP box, which one would generally consider to be the safest place in a stadium. I had no other alternative but to watch the rest of the match from the team bench,” said Shivanand.
  
  It was here that Shivanand got the best look at one of the most memorable goals in Indian football history. When the match dragged into extra time and the first half was being played, Savio Medeira picked out star striker Bruno Coutinho, who silenced the stadium with another thunderous volley which beat Kenyan goalkeeper Azande Abulista all ends up.
  
  No sooner had the ball crashed into the back of the net, Coutinho ran across the stadium with his finger to the lips to celebrate his Golden Goal, arguably the most celebrated strike in Salgaocar’s storied history.
  
  “I can’t really recall how and why I just put the finger to my lips and silenced them. It came instinctively,” said Coutinho.
  
  Twenty years later, nobody has been able to wipe off this memory. It was a triumph so special that everything else pales in comparison. After all, it’s not always that you can go to Kolkata and silence one lakh partisan supporters. May be even more.
