MYSURU: A week after he met  , JD(S) leader   on Tuesday announced that he is quitting the party to join Congress.

 He is tipped to be the Congress nominee for the   bypoll, which Siddaramaiah believe, will tilt the balance in favour of the party given his long-term association with the people of the constituency. Keshavmurthy has contested twice to the assembly polls from the reserved Nanjangud segment from JD(S). He lost by 8,900 votes to Congress candidate V Srinivas Prasad in the 2013 polls.
 
 Prasad’s resignation from the assembly necessitated the  , which is likely to be held in early March. The poll calendar is expected later this week.
 
 Keshavmurthy, 54, has met his supporters in Nanjangud and told them about his meeting with the chief minister last week. Keshavmurthy said that he has been invited to join Congress and strengthen the party to take on BJP’s Prasad. His supporters, majority of them from JD(S), okayed it. Keshavmurthy told the meeting that he has sought blessings from JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda and kept the state unit chief H D Kumaraswamy in the loop about his decision. Of the nine JD(S) members of the Nanjangud municipality, six were present at the meeting. These members said that they will also follow their leader.
 
 “I have quit JD(S) to join Congress following an invite. I will wait for the Congress leaders’ move,” Keshavmurthy told TOI. “I’ve quit JD(S) informing the party activists and leaders,” he added.
 
 When contacted, Mysuru District Congress Committee chief B J Vijaykumar said: “The induction of Keshavmurthy into the party is being discussed by the chief minister and at the KPCC level. We will move ahead following their direction.”
 
 KPCC leaves it to Siddaramaiah
 
 Sources told TOI that KPCC on Monday discussed about the party’s strategy to be adopted for the Nanjangud bypoll. However, the committee has left the final call to be taken by the chief minister. “Given Prasad’s view — that it is a fight between him and the chief minister — Siddaramaiah has taken up the fight and is finalizing the strategies. Since Nanjangud segment is in his home district and abuts Varuna segment, KPCC has left it to the CM to take a call on the candidate. He has favoured Keshavmurthy, which will be okayed,” they explained. Even as KPCC discussed the probability of some Congress leaders taking on Prasad, it was felt that the chief minister should be given a free hand to decide, they noted.
 
 There was opposition in the party with activists and leaders like former MP Adagooru H Vishwanath questioning the move to induct a JD(S) leader. But sources said that the four surveys commissioned have indicated that if Keshavmurthy is wooed and fielded from the party, it will improve the party’s chances. “In the bypoll, candidate is not important, but the party is,” they said.
 
 KPCC has asked the district committee to work out the modalities on the induction of the JD(S) leader. He is likely to join the party in Bengaluru. After his induction, the party is planning to host a convention in Nanjangud to send out a message to its rank and file to fall in line, a leader said.
 
 
