Mysuru: Karnataka Silk Industries Corporation (KSIC), which celebrated its centennial recently, will have its second integrated silk weaving unit by July-end. The new unit, which will be set up at a cost of Rs 24 crore to meet the rising demand, is expected to produce 2.10 lakh metres of additional silk material.

 KSIC chairman and MLA M K Somashekar made the announcement about the second unit after inspecting the site (inside KSIC factory premises), where it is being set up, on Saturday.
 
 Speaking to mediapersons, Somashekar said that the factory, which was established in 1912 by Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar, has 139 power handlooms producing 35,000 metres of silk cloth in a month.
 
 “As we are unable to meet the growing demand for silk, we have decided to set up another unit. The government has already released Rs5 crore for the new factory which will have 60 power handlooms. It will produce 2,600 pieces of ‘Mysuru silk zari sari’ per month and 2.10 lakh metres of silk. Tenders will be called in April,” he said.
 
 The corporation has also added 20 new power handlooms purchased from Surat. They will increase the production from the existing 35,000 metres to 50,000 metres. 
 
 Somashekar said that the corporation will also develop raw silk manufacturing unit (silk filature) in T Narasipura. Out of the Rs5 crore given by the government, nearly Rs1.5 crore will be invested in the   unit to increase its production to 2.5 metric tonne of raw silk and 1.25 metric tonnes of raw silk thread in a month. New automatic rolling machines imported from China have been installed to increase raw silk production.
 
 The corporation is also setting up a soft silk production factory at   in its old factory premises of at a cost of Rs8.77 crore. It can produce 90,000 metres annually. “The factory will produce silk saris especially for people with low income,” he said.
 
 The chairman said that the corporation has been making profits for the past 11 years. In 2015-16, it made a turnover of Rs157 crore and made a profit of Rs22.80 crore. KSIC will open its outlet in New Delhi and Mumbai in the coming days, he added.
 
 
