JALANDHAR: Sucha Singh Chhotepur led Apna Punjab Party (APP) and   led   (BRP) announced an alliance for the Punjab assembly elections on Saturday. The alliance was announced by Ambedkar and Chhotepur in a jointly addressed press conference.

 They said seat sharing would be worked out in the next few days. Parkash Ambedkar, grandson of Dr B R Ambedkar, said Punjab needs an alternative. He said he had been visiting Punjab for some time and realized that people were suffering and desperately needed a political alternative. 
 
 Meanwhile, Chhotepur challenged Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) to release the video footage in which he was allegedly seen accepting money, on the basis of which he was removed from the post of state convener.
 
 “They have not released the video clip till now, despite their claims. Now, I challenge them to come out with it. They simply can’t tolerate leaders from Punjab,” he said.
 
 He said when he was AAP convener, both Jagmeet Brar and independent MLAs Bains brothers met him to join AAP. “Brar met me a few times and assured that he would not contest assembly elections and could even give it in writing. He pleaded that he wanted to have a platform and if the party wished, he would contest the 2019 parliamentary elections but that would entirely be the party’s decision. I spoke to Arvind Kejriwal to take Brar in the party but he instantly shot back saying, ‘he is infamous and could not be accepted in the party fold’ and the matter ended there and then,” said Chhottepur.
 
 He said Bains brothers also held meetings with him and when he spoke about them to Kejriwal, he said they were criminals and in any case, two tickets could not be given in one family. “Later, they joined hands with Brar as well as with Bains brothers,” he said.
 
 He said he had also talked about former deputy speaker and Congress leader  , who has been fielded by AAP from Amritsar Central, with AAP central leaders and Kejriwal. At the time, he said, they responded by saying he had a case against him. “Now they are desperate to take anybody in the party even if there was only a little hope of victory and there are no principles,” he said.
 
 
