HYDERABAD: A young IPS officer has cracked the code to arraign illegal agents who trap workers and send them to the Gulf.  , superintendent of police of   district, can become a role model for policemen to crack down on operations of fake agents.

 In the last two months, the IPS officer has identified 120 fake agents operating in Rajanna-Sircilla district. Of them, action has been taken against 112. Hunt is on to get eight who are on the run. There are two types of fake agents who police identify in a secret operation. Some are active on collecting huge amounts from workers intending to go to Gulf and smuggling and some who have been in the business but have been inactive from time to time. While criminal cases have been booked against 22 agents, 90 have been `bound over' cases. In the `bind over' cases, the agents are produced before the magistrate app rehending that it could resort to criminal activity . The court takes cognizance of it but leaves them on bail bond.
 
 In the `bind over' cases, if the person resorts to any crime, he will be immediately sent to jail, without waiting for a trial. In the 22 cases, the agents were booked under IPC section 420 and under section 24 of the Emigration Act 1983. While under section 420, the punishment could be up to 10 years imprisonment, the provision under Emigration Act gives two years jail. “We got village police officers to make enquiries and identify the illegal agents. Every village was covered. This had to be done discretely . The information also had to be authentic,“   told TOI. To be doub ly sure about the antecedents of the illegal agents, decoys were also sent to confirm if they indeed were operating in the area.   affairs minister   represented   constituency in the assembly and backed cops' efforts to weed out illegal agents.
 
 “The minister's instruction to be tough against illegal agents was clear,“ SP Viswajit Kampati said. During the first MEA-state outreach programme, jointly organised by the ministry of external affairs and general administration (NRI) department, SP Viswajit Kampati made a presentation on how he was able to nab illegal job recruiting agents trapping people and sending them to the Gulf.
 
