HYDERABAD: A   was arrested for murdering his 27-year-old wife at their   four days ago. The accused P Laxman, 47,   

 Twelve years ago, Laxman, a divorcee, married Madhavi and they had two children. At 9pm on Monday, Hayathnagar police received a complaint from Madhavi's brother Anand Babu informing him about what had transpired. "Laxman called Anand saying that Madhavi's health had suddenly deteriorated. Anand rushed to their house and found his sister lying dead in the bed," Hayathnagar inspector J Narender Goud said.
 
 The complainant expressed doubts about the cause of his sister's sudden death. During a preliminary probe, police noticed scratch marks on the face of the victim. 
 
 On recorded the statements of neighbours and friends of the couple, the police suggested that Laxman had been harassed his wife, suspecting that she was having an affair. They picked up Laxman for questioning on Friday morning from his house in Kuntlur, Abdullapurment. 
 
 "During interrogation, Laxman confessed to having smothered his wife," the inspector said. He said, "There was a 20-year age gap between Laxman and Madhavi, and the latter used to constantly remind him of his age, adding he was not being able to fulfil conjugal needs."
 
 On Monday, Laxman sent both his children to school and had liquor with his wife at home. In a drunken state, he picked up an argument with Madhavi and in a fit of rage began to physically assaulting her. "Laxman punched her and also hit her with household utensils. Madhavi fainted and Laxman smothered her to death," the inspector said.
 
 After killing his wife, Laxman went to his children's school and brought them home. He told the school staff that Madhavi suffered a stroke and that he had admitted her at a local hospital. According to the police, Laxman said that after reaching his home with the children, he put them to bed and once they woke up in the evening, he told them that their mother died in her sleep. He also started calling her family members to inform them about a sudden deterioration in her health.
 
 Based on the confession, police seized a steel spatula used by Laxman to attack his wife and also seized an empty whiskey bottle from his house. Police altered the sections of the case which was initially under sec 174 of CrPC (suspicious death) to sections 302 (murder) and 203 (giving false information about an offence committed) of the IPC. The accused was produced before the court and remanded in judicial custody.
 
 
