PUNE: The civic administration is mulling over installing area-specific meters instead of fitting the gadget in every household under the 24X7 water scheme because political parties, especially the ruling  , are wary about public reaction on the issue.

 The BJP leaders in the   (PMC) are comfortable with the idea of area-wise meters in the first phase. "It would be better to install meters in areas, through which the corporation can calculate how much water is used across the city. Household meters can come in the second stage," said a BJP leader, requesting anonymity.
 
 He said the 24X7 water project had turned controversial after the civic administration cancelled its tenders following allegations of misappropriation. The and his colleagues in the party are now treading a cautious path on the project. The city leaders recently held discussions with chief minister   on the possible political consequences of imposing water charges according to the usage. He asked the leaders to make a detailed presentation on the matter, said a senior leader of the BJP, adding that the party would prefer to go step-by-step about installing water meters.
 
 Nationalist   ( ) spokesperson   said the BJP did not want to implement the project. "In the past six months, the party has not done anything. They are just messing up things in the city .The water meters and 24X7 supply seem a distant dream," said Kakade.
 
 The city BJP chief, Yogesh Gogawale, said the party was putting all efforts to fulfil promises made to citi zens. He added that the BJP would implement all the planned projects that benefit citizens.
 
 The civic officials iterated that the city was plagued with unequal distribution of water, with the core areas receiving more water than those in the fringes.
 
 Complaints of citizens indicate that water supply is ir regular and the pressure is low in many areas.
 
 Experts in water management had stressed the need for the metered water supply in the city. According to them, it would ensure equal distribution and people would pay for the volume they use.
 
 The civic administration has started the process of floating tenders for the 24X7 wa ter project afresh. The company implementing the scheme will conduct a network analysis, take corrective measures such as detecting leaks, carry out system rehabilitation and water audit, see the flow measurement, ensure systems' re-engineering and suggest cost-effective measures to meet the city's water demand for the future.
 
