Former chief minister   was shocked after state   chief Ashok Chavan dissolved the entire Sindhudurg district Congress committee controlled by the former. Rane had been plotting a show of strength even as he was planning to quit the party , but it turned out to be a damp squib in view of Chavan's action.
After the rout of his son in the Lok Sabha polls and his own defeat in the assembly elections, Rane and his son had been targeting Chavan over his “autocratic style of functioning“. Rane had said that Chavan would wind up the Congress for his personal gains. His sons also attacked Chavan, Congress chief   and her political advisor Ahmed Patel. Rane's contention was that the Congress leadership, particularly Gandhi and Patel, had thwarted his ascendancy as chief minister. Rane had anticipated that Patel or Chavan would react sharply, but the party's top office bearers kept mum. On the issues raised by Rane, Chavan reacted guardedly, saying he did not discuss party affairs in public.
 
 
 
 Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis brought in the land mark Maharashtra Guarantee of Public Services Act to usher in transparency and end graft. However, an analysis of cases registered by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) leads one to believe that the maximum number of cases pertained to securing no-objection certificates and land matters involving talathis, who are the backbone of the rural administration. Recently , an assistant registrar of cooperative societies was trapped while accepting a bribe of Rs three lakh for issuing a certificate of registration to a housing society in Navi Mumbai. In Pune district, a talathi had demanded Rs 60,000 for issuing a certificate for change of land use. In Osmanabad district, a talathi demanded Rs 30,000 from a farmer to approve division of family land. A senior official in Pune had demanded Rs 2 lakh for getting a copy of the no-objection certificate signed by the authorities for starting an industrial unit.The task before the right to services commissioner, Swadheen Kshatriya, will be to draft a plan to end graft while providing routine services.
 
 
 
 Embarrassed by a senior bureaucrat's appointment on three statutory authorities after his retirement, the general administration depart ment (GAD) led by chief minister Devendra Fadnavis has promulgated new guidelines to ensure that such a blunder is not committed again. A senior bureaucrat, who was due for retirement was appointed to Maharashtra Real Estate Regulatory Authority (MRERA), Maharashtra Administrative Tribunal (MAT) and State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission. Now specific instructions have been issued saying that no department will issue orders for appointments on government committees, tribunals and commissioners without a no-objection certificate from the GAD.
 
