KOLKATA: The onset of the festive season has led to a huge surge in   with 61,000 fliers using the terminal on Monday. That is more than the daily average capacity of the terminal designed to handle 20 million passengers a year.

 Passenger traffic has been hovering 50,000-55,000 mark for over a week now as people fly into   while many city residents fly out on hoilday. While the figures fluctuated a bit between September 17 and 21, it has been on a steady rise since September 22.
 
 Departure figures available with   show that over 30,500 persons flew out of city on Monday , September 25, including 4,235 to foreign shores.Sources said number of passengers arriving to Kolkata was even higher as flight bookings indicate.
 
 “In September, we have clearly seen a 40% spike in flight bookings for Kolkata due to the excitement created around Durga Puja, a mega event. Of these, 18% air travellers booked from smaller towns,“ said Varun Gupta, chief executive officer of Goomo, an omni-channel travel tech company.
 
 PayTm, too, confirmed the trend. According to PayTm vice-president Abhishek Rajan, tickets booked for travel for Durga Puja eve have increased by 11% compared to tickets booked for same period in the previous month. “Majority of these tickets have been boo ked from Bangalore, Mumbai, Delhi and Pune,“ he said.
 
 With Durga Puja figuring prominently at tourism roadshows held by the government, various travel companies across the country have be gun actively promoting the festival. “There's no place better than Kolkata if you want to experience the real charm of a socio-cultural festival that sees participation from various communities. From the various artwork on pandals to `dhunuchi naach' and drum beat, from 'sindoor khela' to the immersion rallies and rituals, there is something for every travel aficionado to explore during this religious extravaganza,“ said travel agent Jaideep Mukherjee who has been trying to popularise the festival among international travellers.
 
 The surge interest in Kolkata's Durga Puja has led to not just hike in air travel but also rise in tatkal transactions on Indian Rail Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC). “The average number of tatkal transactions went up to 20% during the festive season,which is higher than the normal days,“ said Aurko Bhattacharya, co-founder of ePayLater, which allows passengers to book rail tickets on credit.
 
