NEW DELHI: The Aam Aadmi Party is distributing leaflets and debit card-sized plastic cards in Goa with a list and ‘guarantee’ of promises, ahead of the assembly polls, to boost to its door-to-door campaign called ‘Zhadu Yatra’.   It was launched by chief ministerial candidate Elvis Gomes last week and will be carried out in all 40 constituencies. Zhaadu means Jhaadu in Konkani and Marathi.    According to volunteers, the party has listed six monetary welfare benefits in its election manifesto released on December 24. “Each of the promises are listed on the leaflet and is accompanied by a signed guarantee by the party’s chief ministerial candidate,” said a party volunteer from Curtorim who did not want to be named.    Schemes promised include unemployment dole and allowances for girls, women, senior citizens and differently-abled. Each leaflet has a cutout at the end, where volunteers fill in the contact details of each voter they visit during the door-to-door campaign.    A unique registration number is assigned to each voter, copied on the main leaflet. The leaflet remains with the voter, while the party retains the slip containing voter details.    Apart from the leaflets, the party is also providing plastic cards bearing the registration number ‘guaranteeing’ the implementation of the schemes, bearing the names and pictures of AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal and Gomes.    “The distribution of cards to eligible voters is a pledge by Elvis that when he becomes the chief minister they can hold him accountable, using that card,” AAP spokesperson Ashley Rosario said.    Gomes added, “Goa’s politicians have gone back on their promises so many times that they are called U-turn politicians.”    According to a party candidate, the card helps him connect with voters easily: “AAP is a new party in the state and these cards help us affirm the points of transparency and accountability that we are contesting the election. The concept of the cards came from the leaders in Delhi.”  