PATNA: Thousands of devotees thronged the city roads and hopped from one Durga Puja pandal to another as they opened on the   day on Wednesday.

 Even the showers in parts of the city on Wednesday and humid weather conditions on Thursday noon could not dampen the spirit of devotees who kept standing in long queues outside the  , waiting for their turn to seek the divine blessing.
 
  crossing, Kadam Kuan, Churi Market,   and   saw a sea of humanity filling every nook and corner around the pandals in these localities. The devotees also worshipped young girls as part of Kunwari Puja and took their blessing. 
 
 Religious rituals apart, the festivities included eating out with family. “Though Durga Puja celebrations in Kolkata are famous worldwide, I bet the sight is equally spectacular in Patna. From magnificent pandals on various themes to numerable makeshift stalls selling sumptuous food, we have many options to choose from,” said Machhua Toli resident Shruti Prasad, who has been working in Delhi for the last two years but makes it a point to be in home town to celebrate   with family.
 
 Relishing ice-gola with his friend Ankit Rai near Maurya Lok, 14-year-old Ashok Kumar said he would spend the first half of the day with his friends enjoying street food and visit pandals along with his family members in the evening.
 
 Quite many preferred to enjoy community puja at one place. Gardanibagh’s Barnali Mukherjee and her family, for instance, remained seated at the Boring Road venue where Tarun Sangha has organised the puja.
 
 “At places like this, we have the facility to sit and spend time with friends and family. It is like a get-together of family and friends as most of them assemble here. Various cultural programmes are also organised,” Barnali explained.
 
 Savouring momos with spicy chutney near Khetan Market, 22- year-old Ridhima Singh found a fair-like scene on almost every road. “There are so many stalls everywhere... After walking from one pandal to another, one feels hungry and can fall back upon these stalls,” she said.
 
 Toy sellers also did brisk business. “You have to buy one if you don’t want to spoil your children’s festive mood,” said Krishna Kumar Verma, who was purchasing a helicopter for son Divyansh at the Dak Bungalow crossing.
 
 BCom first-year student Ajay Raj has also put up a makeshift stall outside the Maurya Lok complex to sell toys. “I purchased toys worth Rs 50,000 and expect to earn a profit of at least Rs 10,000 during the three days from Mahasaptami,” said Ajay.
 
 
