CHENNAI: Chaos that reigned when fuel retail outlets announced their decision to boycott debit and credit card transactions died down when banks relented and announced that the 1% merchant discount fee would not be levied.

 On Sunday, the   (TNPDA), in a statement, said fuel outlets across the state will not accept credit or debit card transactions due to a “sudden intimation“ from banks that a merchant discount rate of 1% would be levied on each transaction. “This (surcharge decision) has been done unilaterally by bankers who have installed card machines on our premises. Our margins are fixed on a per kilo litre basis and as such do not have any scope to absorb these charges,“ said president of TNPDA KP Murali. Such a boycott would have been a big blow to Prime Minister  's cashless campaign in a postdemonetisation set up and would have forced customers to go scurrying for change before refuelling. 
 
 However, soon after the TNPDA announcement, panic buying of fuel was not to be seen. Truck operators had expressed concern at the boycott announcement. Supply of essentials like drinking water and milk would have been unaffected. “Ninety per cent of (metro water tanker) operators in the city still pay with cash. Trucks bought through financing get petrocards as part of the deal. These cards are sponsored by oil manufacturing firms like Indian Oil and Bharat Petroleum. So fuel is usually obtained making use of these cards,“ said general secretary of   tanker lorry contractors association N Elango.
 
 “It is the national permit trucks that would have been hit the worst,“ he added.
 
 Murugan, proprietor of Sri Murugan Transports based in Madhavaram and Koyambedu, said a decision by retailers not to accept card transactions would result in trucks getting stranded along national highways. “Since demonetisation, we have been transferring cash to the driver's bank account and he will use his card to pay for fuel. One of my vehicles left for Gujarat on Sunday afternoon. I told the driver that I would transfer some cash enroute. He only has a debit card with him,“ he said.
 
 The president of TN sand lorry owners' federation, S Yuvaraj, told TOI that the fallout of such a boycott would have been a nationwide truckers' strike.
 
 Meanwhile, oil manufacturing firms had expressed shock at the development. The three public sector units, Indian Oil, Bharat Petroleum and  , said they had represented to the oil ministry and expressed the grievances of the oil dealers. Clarification had been sought from the finance ministry as regards to what needed to be done to resolve the stalemate.
 
