Over the years, the way a mother is perceived and presented in Bollywood has gone through a sea-change. The sacrificial and virtuous maa has gone through an overhaul, and new-age supermoms have emerged. BT gives you a lowdown 

 A child, they say, gives birth to a mother, which makes their relationship special. Hindi cinema has always focused on this bond, though it has undergone a metamorphosis with the changing times. Between the 1940s and the 70s, the maa ki mamta factor was almost always in focus. 'Deewar’s' dialogue, Mere paas maa hai, is frozen in time. However, despite being pivotal characters, most screen mothers those days were melodramatic. 
 
 The period between 1980 and early 2000 was strewn with examples of mothers being largely reduced to fillers in the frame. Since mid-2000, the screen mother has not only made a comeback, but has a substantial role to play once again. 
 
 
 
 Yesteryear movies saw Nirupa Roy, Lalita Pawar, Sulochana, Achala Sachdev and Leela Chitnis rule Maa-dom with balidaan and mamta, though one also witnessed a rarity like Mother India. The film is regarded as an epitome because it showcased a rather young   as the mother of two grown-up sons braving odds and emerging victorious.
 
 Nargis’ portrayal was a departure from the general characteristics of a reel mother: virtuous, caring, keeling over a dilapidated sewing machine and rustling up her laadla’s favourite halwa and cajoling him to get home a bahu. 'Aradhana' was another rarity in which Sharmila Tagore’s character chooses to go to jail so that she can provide her son a good upbringing. Mere Apne featured a childless Meena Kumari, who becomes the mother figure in the lives of a bunch of young men. 
 
 Over the years, Hindi cinema has seen mothers transform from sufferers to revenge-seekers. Raakhee symbolised the latter breed of moms. Remember, Mere Karan Arjun aayenge? The late 1990s belonged to actresses like Farida Jalal and Reema Lagoo. Maa became mom, who was friendlier. In the early 2000s, single and working mothers were brought in to reflect the changing face of urban India. 
 modern times
 
 Today, a reel mother is more human. Actresses are opening up to the idea of playing a mother because she’s more real and has a purpose of existence.
 
 Tabu in 'Astitva', 'Haider' and 'Drishyam', Tisca Chopra in 'Taare Zameen Par', Jaya Bachchan in 'Fiza' and 'Kal Ho Naa Ho', Kirron Kher in 'Hum Tum', 'Dostana' and 'Khoobsurat', Deepti Naval in 'Listen Amaya', Dimple Kapadia in 'Pyaar Mein Twist', Rekha in 'Koi Mil Gaya', Shabana Azmi in 'Tehzeeb' and 'Neerja',   in 'English Vinglish', Dolly Ahluwalia in 'Vicky Donor', Swara Bhaskar in 'Nil Battey Sannata',   in 'Paa' and 'Kahaani 2',   in 'Maatr', and Amrita Singh in '2 States' are some examples of the screen mothers that have emerged in recent times. While the mothers in these films have, by definition, not been the central characters, they have made their presence felt.
 
 The credit for this should be given to writers. Juhi Chaturvedi, who penned 'Vicky Donor', believes that every character must be substantial in a story. She says, “'English Vinglish' revolves around a mother and a woman’s willingness to overcome her language handicap. In 'Vicky Donor', the hero’s mother is a progressive woman with her share of flaws, which gives her a human quality.”
 
 Juhi adds, “Earlier, our films played up the mother as a figure of perfection. She she had a certain image to live up to. Over the years, we have managed to change that. A role like Tabu’s in 'Haider', which is a little sensuous, finds acceptance now.”
 
 
 In recent years, leading ladies like Priyanka Chopra ('Bajirao Mastani' and 'Mary Kom') and Aishwarya Rai Bachchan ('Jazbaa') have gracefully played mothers. Kangana Ranaut and   have joined the brigade with their next projects, 'Manikarnika' and the Sanjay Dutt biopic, respectively. Sanjay Gupta, who directed 'Jazbaa', points out that a filmmaker’s outlook towards a mother on screen should be real. Also, the role should be substantial. 
 
 He reasons, “If I offer Deepika Padukone a random mother’s role, she will show me the door. When I offered Aishwarya 'Jazbaa', she didn’t hesitate because she felt that the character was meaty. Tanuja played Sanjay Dutt and Atul Agnihotri’s mother in 'Aatish'. Her character, 25 years ago, was an anti-thesis of the Nirupa Roy school of thought. Amrita Singh in 'Shootout at Lokhandwala' was bold and brazen. The parts weren’t long, but they were strong. Indie films have been a step ahead of the mainstream in portraying stronger mothers. The mainstream has begun to follow suit thanks to compelling scripts, but it will take a while for the idea to settle in completely.” 
 
 Ashwiny Iyer Tiwari, who directed 'Nil Battey Sannata', insists that Swara’s character in her film is someone her domestic help, mother and she could relate with. She adds, “As a patriarchal society, a mother is forced to resign from her ambitions. It’s a form of self-imposed imprisonment. Why should you, as a woman, accept that as your fate? With changing times, ‘Maa ka role’ won’t be seen as a taboo because cinema is changing its approach to the role, thanks to the society. She is finally being accepted as a human being, who needs to be left guilt-free if she has a parallel social life.”
 
 
 Even as mother roles continue to find prominence in films today, there have been instances of leading ladies turning them down. For example, Madhuri Dixit had reportedly refused to play Sonam Kapoor’s mother in the 'Freaky Friday' remake. Raveena had supposedly turned down Shefali Shah’s role in 'Dil Dhadakne Do'. Swara Bhaskar did that when she was reportedly offered to play Shah Rukh Khan’s mother in Aanand L Rai’s next. It’s not always that a heroine jumps at the idea of playing a mother. 
 
 Manisha Koirala, who plays Nargis Dutt in the Sanjay Dutt biopic, had told BT that if it had been a regular mommy role, she would’ve turned it down. Manisha adds, “In your 40s, you are neither the love interest nor the typical mother. As an artiste today, I look for a role that allows me to act but without the tag of mummyji attached.”
 
 Swara, on her part, elaborates, “I think that any story that centres on a mother and child has a lot of substance because it’s not a flippant relationship to begin with. 'Nil Battey Sannata' got a standing ovation even at foreign shores because the audience could connect with the emotion. We’ve had a long history of mother-child associations in our films. Hindi films have always had a special love for the mother figure. It’s liberating to see that now, a mother can be a stand-alone figure without a man in the equation. Yes, we are heading in the right direction, but what I fear is that we still haven’t fully stopped glorifying our mothers on screen, robbing them off their human needs and desires.” 
 
 
 
 
 
 
