KOLKATA:   held a “court“ session at his residence on Friday , within hours of the   issuing a bailable warrant for his arrest, and “ordered“ that a case be registered under relevant sections of the SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act against Chief Justice of India J S Khehar, other apex court judges and attorney general  .

 The other apex court judges against whom Karnan wants a case registered are Justices Dipak Mishra, J Chelameswar, Ranjan Gogoi, Madan B Lokur, Pinaki Chandra Ghose and Kurian Joseph.
 
 Addressing a presser at his residence, Karnan said the SC had “no locus standi“ to issue a bailable warrant against a sitting judge. “This is intentional and I am being targeted for being a Dalit. The warrant against me is unconstitutional,“ he said.
 
 Karnan is the first serving HC judge in judicial history to have an arrest warrant issued against him by the apex court in a contempt case. A sevenjudge bench headed by CJI Khehar took strong note of Karnan's non-appearance despite being served with a contempt notice and asked the Bengal DGP to execute the warrant to ensure the judge's presence at 10.30am on March 31.
 
 A defiant Karnan also issued an “order“ directing the   to register and probe cases under Article 226 and CrPc Section 482 against a host of judges from different courts for corruption, rape and embezzlement. “I had written to the PM to initiate investigations against at least 22 corrupt judges. That was on January 23 this year. Most of them are from upper castes and that is why no investigation has started. It is because I was bold to bring charges against them that I am being cornered now. I am a Dalit and that is why I am being targeted,“ he said. He also appealed to the President to revoke the warrant against him. “Only the President can restore my prestige now and I appeal to his good offices,“ Karnan said.
 
 He argued that it was an unprecedented move to hold court in this manner but added that “if the law keepers of the country have taken an unpreced ented route to malign me, I've the power to take an unprecedented route to fight back“.
 
 On February 8, the SC had stripped Karnan of all judicial and administrative work and asked him to personally appear in court on February 13 to explain why contempt action should not be initiated against him for improper conduct and intemperate remarks.
 
 Karnan observed that no contempt action, either civil or criminal, can be initiated against a sitting HC judge under Sections 2(c), 12 and 14 of the Contempt of Courts Act or under Article 20 of the Constitution. “Only a motion of impeachment can be initiated against a sitting judge of the higher judiciary before the   after due enquiry under the Judges' Enquiry Act“. He added, “The SC shares equal power and rights with all the HCs of the country . It is not my master and I am not its servant. I will not appear before the SC.“ 
 
