New Delhi: In an unusual trend,   cases in Delhi touched 177 this year. This is more than the number of cases of the mosquito-borne disease reported in the recent past. In 2016 and 2015, for example, Delhi reported only 90 and 60 malaria cases respectively as on July 8.

 While dengue and chikungunya viruses are spread by Aedes aegypti mosquito that breeds in fresh water, malaria is spread by the anopheles mosquito that can breed in dirty water. Epidemiologists say high incidence of malaria is reflective of poor sanitation levels.
 
 “North corporation has recorded maximum 29 malaria cases, followed by south (15) and east (8). The rest of the cases have been reported from other civic agencies and neighbouring states,” said an official.
 
 The incidence of chikungunya, which took to epidemic proportions last year, and dengue is lower compared to malaria this year, the official added.
 
 As on July 8, corporations said they have received reports of 161 chikungunya and 109 dengue cases from different hospitals. Doctors said continuous rains may cause further spurt in cases of mosquito-borne diseases in the coming months and there is need for focussed action and awareness initiatives to prevent an outbreak.
 
 According to the   (WHO), India accounts for 75% of all malaria cases in  . Symptoms of malaria include fever, headache, chills and vomiting, and usually appear 10 to 15 days after the mosquito bite. “If untreated for more than 24 hours, malaria can lead to severe illness, and even result in death. In many parts of the world, the parasites have developed resistance to a number of malaria medicines,” the   said.
 
 On Wednesday, the Union health ministry launched its plan for elimination of malaria by 2022. Health minister J P Nadda said strategies involve strengthening malaria surveillance, establishing a mechanism for early detection and prevention of outbreaks, promoting the prevention of malaria by use of Long Lasting Impregnated Nets (LLINs), effective indoor residual spray and augmenting manpower and capacities for effective implementation for the next five years. 
 
 “Inter-sectoral coordination is the key, we have to work together with the other ministries and municipal corporations to achieve the desired results,” the minister said.
 
