GANDHINAGAR: The were stormy scenes in the Gujarat   on Thursday, when BJP and Congress legislators came to blows during a discussion on farmer suicides in Amreli and Junagadh.

 BJP MLAs and Congress MLAs—who had raised the issue of farmer suicides—hurled verbal abuse at each other. This snowballed into a scuffle, in which minister of state for women and child welfare   and two MLAs, including  , were injured.
 
 Congress MLAs Paresh Dhanani and Baldevji Thakore, who had rushed into the well of the house during question hour, were suspended for the remainder of the budget session, for allegedly attacking ministers Wadhwani and Vallabh Kakadiya and BJP MLAs. To register their protest at the suspension of Paresh Dhanani and Thakore, the Congress MLAs walked out in protest.
 
 The altercation had broken out when Dhanani, who represents Amreli, sought to know the number of farmer suicides in two years over the “anti-farmer policies of the government”. Agriculture minister Chiman Sapariya said no such incident had taken place in the specified period. He justified his statement with examples.
 
 Dhanani then, quoting data from the home department, said that 374 farmers had committed suicide in one year. He substantiated his claims by citing examples of recent suicides. Not satisfied with the minister’s reply, Dhanani rushed to near the minister’s seat and said he was lying. While Sapariya was confronting Dhanani, Congress MLA from Kalol, Baldevji Thakor, also rushed at the minister and allegedly tried to snatch papers from him. This prompted the sergeants to cordon them off.
 
 The aggressive posturing of the Congress members drew reactions from BJP MLAs, who also engaged in verbal spats and exchanges of abuse with them, even as CM Vijay Rupani and leader of opposition   looked on.
 
 When the house did return to order after repeated appeals, the speaker adjourned it for 15 minutes and left the floor.
 
 Soon after his exit, the chaos peaked when Congress members accused BJP MLAs Kanti Amrutiya and Praful Pansheriya of using abusive languages and unparliamentary words.
 
 Several Congress MLAs challenged both the BJP legislators to face them. The matter got uglier when Thakore, who was being escorted out of the house, rushed towards the treasury benches and allegedly tried to attack Pansheriya. Transport minister Vallabh Kakadiya fell to the floor as he was allegedly pushed by a running Thakor. 
 
 Congress MLAs suspended for ruckus over police excesses
 
  All Gujarat Congress MLAs were suspended by speaker Raman Vora on Thursday, after they protested in the house during the discussion on the recent police excesses against farmers in Sanand. 
 
 . Congress raised slogans against BJP and the Congress MLAs rushed into the well.
 
 
