RAJATALAB (Varanasi): Far from the   of   in big cities, a farmer in   of Varanasi is developing a  ' based on the   followed by Indian farmers for ages. 

 The gene bank is the most ambitious project yet of Jai Prakash Singh who hasn't even completed class 10 but has been researching for the past 20 years. 
 
 In these years, Singh has developed 460 varieties of paddy, 120 varieties of wheat, 50 varieties of pulses (arhar) and four of mustard seeds. Several of these have also been released by the state government. 
 
 For his research, Singh has been felicitated by two former Presidents of the country apart from V-Cs of a number of universities and government agencies. 
 
 Singh's expertise in protecting and developing indigenous high-yielding varieties of seeds has benefited not only millions of farmers and agricultural experts in the country, but also those across the world. His high yield seeds require the least of pesticides and insecticides.
 
 Now, Singh has embarked on a new mission of conserving his 'sons' (the term he uses for seeds he has developed) through a gene bank. 
 
 "Traditionally, farmers in the country do not have hybrid seeds so they keep a portion of their produce in earthern pots as seeds for the next season. These seeds are usually used for two-three years," he said, adding that "I have been developing wheat, paddy and pulses' varieties for two decades without approaching any high-tech lab. As I treat these seeds as my 'sons', I have now started developing a gene bank." 
 
 For the purpose, he stores the best of these seeds in small earthen pots, painted pink ("to keep away moisture," said Singh), carefully cataloging their names and numbers. "I don't want my effort to go in vain. I have waited for the government to provide me land for setting up of the 'bank' or give me funds for storing seeds," he said. With no help forthcoming, Singh has used part of his meagre income to construct a hall in his residence and plastered its floor so that the 'bank' remains protected, with limited sunlight and air. 
 
 "The government extends invitation to international experts, spends lakhs on grants and here I am, ready to provide everything for free. But nothing has been done to conserve seeds that I have developed. It will be a personal loss and also to the nation if these seeds are not conserved and given to farmers to boost their produce," he added.
 
 
