JAIPUR: The   in Pali district will now be developed as a conservation reserve. 

 In a recent judgment, the   (NGT) has restrained RIICO from proceeding with the industrial park development work around   Lake and directed the state government to preserve the lake and remove all obstructions that prevent flow of water from catchment to the Sardar Samand Lake.
 
 “The most important thing which was observed was the existence of several species of animals, which made evident that there is ample flora and fauna in this part of the state. Looking at the topography of the area and the dark zone, it would be appropriate to not allow interference of any commercial or industrial activities in the area in question, as unlike in the other parts of the state, there is dense vegetation existing in this region which according to me should not be disturbed,” said the judgment of Justice Dalip Singh, judicial member and Dr Satywan Singh Garbyal, expert member NGT.
 
 The decision is based on the reports by the   and by  , counsel who was directed to act as court commissioner on behalf of the NGT and submit his report with regard to the catchment area and ongoing activities and their impact on the lake.
 
 During inspection, the court commissioner observed that the level of water available was 13 feet though the maximum capacity is 25 feet and the entire area was densely vegetated with a wide variety of birds including migratory birds, blue bull and black bucks. Hillocks which were 100-120 meters high were found to have been partially excavated for mining purposes.
 
 Besides, looking at the topography of the area and the dark zone, it would be appropriate to not allow interference of any commercial or industrial activities in the area in question. As unlike in the other parts of the state, the ecological balance in this area is still maintained. According to me this area should not be disturbed, said the court commissioner’s report.
 
 “This is an important area for wetland and grassland birds and with least human interference it can be one of the best representative areas of the desert biomes. We are working on the lake notification as Wetland under the provisions of the Wetland (Conservation and Management) Rules, 2010,”said G V Reddy, Chief Wildlife Warden, Rajasthan.
 
 According to the NGT order, “Mining or stone crusher or any industrial activities will be prohibited within 5 kilometers from the boundary of the water body as well as the rivers Luni & Sukni which have significant role of recharging the Sardar Samand Lake.”
 
 The water resource department would take up soil conservation and moisture retention activities in the hillocks surrounding Sardar Samand Lake as also restoration of the mined area and pits. The state would formulate a policy for protection and conservation of   and Sardar Samand Lake and notify Sardar Samand Lake as Wetland under Wetland Rules, 2010, directed NGT.
 
 
