KOLKATA: There’s a buzz in the world of the visually impaired. Seventy years after Independence, the blind can sense what the country looks like, trace its mighty rivers and mountains and touch its megacities. 

 The National Atlas & Thematic Mapping Organisation (Natmo), a central government undertaking under the   & technology, has prepared an   in   that will allow the blind to ‘see’ India’s physiography, river systems, soils, crop patterns, metro cities, road network and political map.
 
 “There is a lot of excitement, in our organization and more so in blind schools, to see the expression of students as they lay their hands on the atlas and sense our country in its physical form,” said Natmo director Tiasha Banerjee.
 
 The Braille atlas finally coming to fruition is an emotional moment for Banerjee and her team as the initiative had begun two decades ago. Natmo had first prepared a Braille atlas on a sheet of metal but the experiment flopped as visually impaired children called to experience it did not like the feel. It then tried the atlas on a vinyl board. Once again, it was rejected by the blind. Finally, Natmo went back to the tried-and-trusted medium: paper. When a group of boys from the  , Dehradun, experienced the maps last month, their faces instantly lit up. 
 
 Banerjee said, “The joy they felt at knowing what their motherland was like was the sign of approval that the entire team at Natmo had been eagerly waiting for. Teachers in schools for the blind are also excited. Visually impaired men and women have taken great strides and becoming IAS officers, lawyers and management executives, but till now that had only read about India and not known what it looked like. Now, they will be able to do so.”
 
 India has 7.8 million visually impaired people. With the population of the global community pegged at 39 million, one in every five blind person in the world is an Indian. 
 
 PwC executive Asif Iqbal, who is part of the e-governance project team, is excited about the map and wants to check it out himself. Visually impaired, Iqbal has used a tablet with a map-based software to learn the locations of states. “I have a rough idea of India. It will be great to experience the Braille atlas,” he said.
 
 Kanchan Gaba, a crusader for the rights of the disabled, had family members and teachers create a map of India for her with strings attached to pins planted on a thermocol sheet. “I was lucky to get so much support. Most children don’t. A commercial map is therefore very useful,” she said.
 
 Prior to launching the map, Natmo is conducting training sessions for teachers. The various physical features like plains, mountains and rivers have been embossed with lines of various thickness. Each line pattern will be referenced with text in Braille.
 
 Biswajit Ghosh, principal of Narendrapur Ramakrisna Mission Blind Boys’ Academy, lauds Natmo’s initiative and also offers important feedback. “The map still needs to be improved upon. Some of the texture that differentiate various features like plains and hills need to be made more prominent for students to understand them better. The gap between the Braille dots also need to be reduced,” he said. 
 
 Banerjee says the map is still in the experimental phase and will be improved on the basis of feedback from students and teachers. “The Braille map is a continuous process,” she said. Since Natmo is headquartered in Kolkata, a Braille map of   will be simultaneously released in schools in the state. The next ambitious project is to develop a Braille map of Kolkata.
 
 
