CHENNAI: A   without noise and pollution may be odd, but if you want to celebrate the festival of lights in a responsible way, here's a chance.

 A team from   has developed a set of green Diwali digital crackers that can be 'bursted' with the help of a smartphone. Bursting the digital crackers is easy. One has to download the INKMEO app and then fill its screen with the cards containing photographs of the crackers provided with the package. The crackers could be seen bursting on the mobile's screen. The idea is to avoid the air and noise pollution that take place when crackers are set on fire.
 
 “We will be celebrating Diwali, one of India's biggest festivals, soon. It signifies the triumph of good over evil. But the crackers that we burst create noise and air pollution.
 
 This has not only put a great strain on the environment, but also put people's health at stake. 
 
 We wanted to find a solution to this and that's how we developed this green Diwali digital crackers,“ said  , managing director of Magic Box Publication, and the brain behind the project.
 
  Each green Diwali digital cracker pack comes with a set of 40 cards with pictures of various crackers, sparklers, flower pots and torches. “We have a wide range of items. By using this, you can enjoy bursting crackers on your mobile and also do your bit for our en vironment,“ said Guptha.
 
 Since the digital cracker package is environment-friendly, the team that developed it is planning to donate 250 units to orphanages and old age homes in Tamil Nadu. “We are happy that we have got tremendous response from people since we launched the digital crackers a couple of weeks ago. We are looking for some NGOs who can distribute this environment-friendly package across  ,“ said  , chief marketing officer of  .
 
 The green Diwali digital crackers is meant for all agegroups. “Senior citizens and even bed-ridden people can enjoy the fun using the package.There is no risk involved,“ he said. Each packet of the green Diwali digital crackers costs Rs 500, and it is available online.
 
