CHENNAI:   responded on Tuesday to a plea filed with the   challenging the appointment of   as party general secretary, stating that the party   is fully competent to take decisions and make interim appointments in contingencies.

 The party also countered the argument that Sasikala was not eligible to be elected as general secretary as she was expelled from the party in 2011 for a few months and did not fulfil the criteria of being a primary member of the party for five years contin uously . Sources said the AIADMK has pointed out that since the expulsion was revoked, it was invalid ab initio. So, there was effectively no break in her primary membership on account of her brief expulsion from AIADMK, said the party. Incidentally, Sasikala completes her fiveyear continuous term as member of AIADMK on March 31.
 
 The response by the party on behalf of Sasikala, who is incarcerated in a Bengaluru prison fol lowing her conviction in the disproportionate assets case, is on the petition filed by 12 rebel AIADMK MPs from the O Panneerselvam camp, challenging the legality of her appointment as general secretary following  's death.
 
 According to sources, the AIADMK, in the response filed on behalf of Sasikala, has rejected the argument that her appointment as party general secretary was not as per procedure as she was elected by the general council and not by the primary members or party cadre as required under the party constitution. It said that the AIADMK general council is a large body comprising more than 2,000 members and competent to take major decisions related to the party in emergency situations. “They said that the death of their party chief J Jayalalithaa was a contingency and extraordinary situation and the appointment of Sasikala was approved by the general council as an interim measure,“ said an official who perused AIADMK's reply.
 
 The response, signed by the AIADMK deputy general secretary T T V Dinakaran, is under consideration of the Election Commission. The EC may either decide whether to uphold Sasikala's election merely on the basis of written arguments or allow a hearing to both parties before giving its final decision. Contending that any accordance of approval by the EC to Sasikala as general secretary would contradict the rules, the O Panneerselvam camp challenged the expulsion of its leader and 19 others. “If the commission accedes to our demand, her appointment of Dinakaran as deputy general secretary becomes illegal. Dinakaran is ineligible to contest for the post since he was expelled from the party,“ said a senior AIADMK MP.
 
