A 12-year-old girl, who was kidnapped from her village in   when she was aged just four and handed over to a woman in Mumbai, was   with her parents after she identified her   in front of the police. Despite the fact that eight years have passed by, the girl managed to recall how she was lured by the kidnappers - a Madhya Pradesh couple identified as   and Ganga Sisodiya - and the locations they took her to before eventually selling her.

 The girl's ordeal came to light after she told her classmate in Mumbai that she was playing near a bus stand in Satna, Madhya Pradesh, where her mother ran a bangle shop, when a stranger lured her with biscuits and took her away. The classmate revealed the story to her mother, who in turn contacted her friend Rakhi Sharma, a social worker who alerted the MIDC Police Station at Andheri.
 
 Arti, the Mumbai woman who `adopted' the victim, told the police that it was her mother Kamala who had bought the girl, even as the victim told the cops that Arti was a bar dancer and she too was being pressurised into learning how to dance.
 
 The kidnappers were arrested after Shivshankar Sisodiya himself went to a police station in Satna on realising the cops were looking for his wife Ganga.
 
 The couple told the court that there was no evidence against them, and that it could be a case of mistaken identity as the girl had described the man who kidnapped her as `bald'.
 
 The court, however, took note of the fact that the victim appeared extremely scared even at the police station when Shivshankar was brought in, and also identified him in front of the cops.
 
 Justice Sadhana Jadhav of the Bombay High Court, while rejecting the couple's bail plea, said, "Although the victim was just four years old when she was kidnapped, the images of the person who had kidnapped her and the one in whose custody she had to remain for a considerable time has left an impression on her mind. She could not have mistaken them for someone else."
 
 "Taking into consideration the submissions, the material on record, the gravity of the offence, and the fact that there is sufficient material to indicate that the applicants have committed the alleged offence, the court is not inclined to grant bail," Justice Jadhav noted.
 
