JAIPUR: With one month to go, the   has failed to utilise a grant of Rs 30 crore allocated by the   in 2012 under the   (UPE) scheme.

 The grant was part of the Rs 50 crore allocated to the university after it qualified for the UPE scheme.
 
 While the five-year deadline of this grant is set to lapse next month, the research work on projects approved by the UGC under this scheme has not progressed as per the deadline.
 
 The failure of some project coordinators has deterred the UGC from carrying out a mid-term review of projects which was to be done in 2015. If the UGC fails to give an extension, the unutilized amount would lapse, leading to a loss of resources.
 
 Officials said that the university has spent Rs 20 crore on building new structures, renovating old ones along with purchasing instruments required for research under this scheme. The rest was allocated for carrying out research work in nine areas, including a project on 'Convergence of science with focus on nano-material’.
 
 “The instruments purchased were based on research proposals submitted by the university. However, many of these are not in used as research work has not started in many areas,” said a university source.
 
 During the last five years, many conferences and seminars were held under the scheme but very few publications and research output have been released against these programmes.
 
 “The project on ecology and development of Rajasthan was allocated Rs 3 crore for field work and conferences. But the focus was on the latter and no significant field work has been done,” said a source.
 
 “The mid-term review was delayed due to the retirement of UGC vice-chancellor. I am hoping that it would be done soon. Secondly, we are also hoping to the get the extension as reasons for the delays are valid,” said K V R Rao, UPE coordinator in RU.
 
 Sources said that the UGC releases grants in phases on the basis of project details or proposals submitted by the university. “The amount is pending due to the pendency of approved research work,” said a source. These projects could have given jobs for research scholars. Similar is the fate of several other universities in the state. In fact, the Jagadguru Ramanandacharya Rajasthan Sanskrit University became the first state varsity to return funds after failing to utilize them for 10 years.
 
 
