A spanking century from skipper David Warner played a pivotal role in Sunrisers Hyderabad beating table-toppers Kolkata Knight Riders by 48 runs to further consolidate their play-off chances. For the second time running Sunrisers scored a total in excess of 200, in reply to which KKR fell short by 48 runs despite a gutsy effort from Robin Uthappa. 

 We break the match in five phases
 
 
  
 
 Against one of the better bowling attacks in the tournament, David Warner scored a blistering century to power the Sunrisers Hyderabad innings. The innings began exactly in the manner many expected with Warner going after the bowling from the word go. In four overs, Sunrisers raced to 52/0 with the Australian opener scoring 44 of them. KKR had a couple of close chances early on to get rid of Warner but couldn't quite hold on to them. First, a mistimed aerial drive off Nathan Coulter-Nile landed inches short of a diving Umesh Yadav in the first over and later Chris Woakes, who running backwards, almost pulled off a blinder. The real bashing from Warner came in the fourth over from Yusuf Pathan, whom he pummelled for two fours and a six.
 
 Warner's half-century came off just 20 balls, and once he was past it, he launched an assault that doesn't come often. The two toughest bowlers to face, Kuldeep Yadav and Sunil Narine were played fearlessly. Warner, holding nothing back, applied the cuts, switch-hits, punchy drives and the slog sweeps with the most effective results. From 82, Warner took three deliveries to go to 98 - 4, 6, 6. The century came off 43 balls in just the 11th over. Warner was kept quiet between overs 12 and 15, but once that lull was over, Warner shifted gears. He hit Narine for three consecutive fours before tiredness got the better of Warner. He top edged Woakes for Gautam Gambhir to take the catch.
 
 
 
 
 Kane Williamson was nine off nine when Warner departed, and with 3.5 overs to go, Sunrisers needed impetus to finish on a high. Williamson started slowly, but more importantly, stayed there to increase his strike rate as the innings neared its close. With KKR bowlers staging some sort of comeback, Williamson drilled a full-toss in the 18th over for his second boundary. That got him going as he then took Woakes for 12 of the 14 runs scored in the penultimate over with three boundaries. Sunrisers were 202 - by the time it was Coulter-Nile's turn to bowl the final overs, and they’d have fancied Williamson - and Yuvraj Singh - to ensure they at least touched 220. But what the Australian delivered was pure class, giving away just seven. Despite a catch dropped of the first ball, he kept it full, allowing Sunrisers to be content with 209.
 
 
 
 
 Sunrisers' opening wicket stand between Warner and Shikhar Dhawan accounted for 139 runs. In reply, KKR were off to their worst start this season. When Gambhir accumulated back-to-back fours off Bhuvneshwar Kumar, the beginning seemed well. But two wickets in no time robbed them of any possible momentum they aspired. The experiment to open with Sunil Narine didn't work as Mohammed Siraj removed him for 1. The ball was slightly short and Narine made room, but couldn't get it past Warner, who took a nice running catch. Next over, Gambhir made the long walk back as he mistimed a pull off Siddarth Kaul. With that blow, KKR were 12/2 in 2.3 overs.
 
 
 
 
 Robin Uthappa has been a revelation ever since he solidified the No. 3 spot for KKR. Following scores of 68, 72 and recently that match-winning 87 against Rising Pune Supergiant, Uthappa was once again at his belligerent best against Sunrisers. Coming in at 9/1 at the fall of Narine's wicket, he straightaway took control of the proceedings. Having cracked a couple of fours off Siraj, Uthappa welcomed Rashid Khan with a gigantic 101m six; and that wasn't even the tip of the iceberg. Uthappa and Manish Pandey had staged a comeback with a 78-run stand, and Pandey's dismissal after the rain break was a severe dent. With the asking rate touching 13, Uthappa smoked Moises Henriques for consecutive sixes and brought up his fifty. Everything connected the middle of his bat, and at one point it looked as if he would take the game away entirely on his own. But just then, Uthappa played the only shot that didn't connect as well as he'd have wanted to and holed out to long off. 
 
 
 
 
 Uthappa exited the scene at 109/4, and with KKR needing another 101 off 7.3 overs - always a stiff task - the Sunrisers bowlers sniffed the chance of avenging the defeat of their previous match and delivered supremely. Siraj, Rashid, Kaul and Bhuvneshwar bowled with precision, tying down big-hitting Yusuf Pathan and Sheldon Jackson. Their effectiveness can be estimated from the fact that between overs 13 and 20, KKR scored just 51 runs. KKR just couldn't respond properly after the fall of Uthappa's wicket and it gave Sunrisers their second-largest win in the IPL in terms of runs.
 
