NEW DELHI:   feels   has been welcomed by the masses in   despite the hardships and wants it to become a poll issue in the forthcoming assembly elections. The party has, however, not ruled out polarisation on the twin issues of Ram temple at Ayodhya and the alleged exodus of Hindus from some districts due to pressures from the minority community.
 
  “People are facing hardships due to demonetisation but not as much as the media thinks…We want demonetisation and the fight against black money to become an issue in the UP elections,” a senior BJP leader said.
  
  The party insists that though the businesses of some small and medium enterprises have virtually come to a standstill in parts of UP, such businesses were not making profits every month in the past too. The problems will be short-lived and the hardships will end soon, the BJP brass claimed.
  
  BJP has been slamming the Opposition for speaking against demonetisation and has charged them with supporting black money hoarders. BJP has specially targeted Mayawati-led BSP on this issue. The   party also feels the elections in UP will get polarised in the coming weeks.
  
  “ I f somebody makes the Ram temple an issue, it will definitely become an issue. This may not be done only by some BJP leaders but by others parties as well,” the BJP leader said.
  
  BJP MPs like Yogi Adityanath, Uma Bharati and   have spoken in favour of building a Ram temple at Ayodhya. Sangh Parivar organisations like VHP have also been demanding that there should not be any further delay by BJP in carrying out this promise. “There is nothing wrong in chanting Jai Shree Ram. We all should,” the senior leader said.
  
  Similarly, the issue of Hindus migrating from Kairana, allegedly due to pressure from local Muslims who outnumber them in the area, may become an issue, especially in western UP. “The   issue is not dead for the BJP,” the leader said. BJP Chief   had vociferously raised this issue in his speech at Saharanpur recently during the party’s Parivartan Yatra. BJP is confident that the caste equations in UP will be breached in these elections as it happened during the 2014   polls where the party got 71 out of 80 seats in the state. “We feel BJP is going to win the elections and this means the caste barriers will be crossed this time.” 
