

 For the first time in his life, 19-year-old Razul Singh is holding a cup of mango yoghurt. “It tastes like sh*t,” says the teenaged dancer, who has taught himself to speak fluent English in three years chiefly “by watching the lyrics of English songs on YouTube”. His casual ability to drop terms like “body alignment”, “passive energy” and “pirouette”, however, comes from a world full of lacy skirts, nude shoes, Mozart melodies and French words that he discovered inside an Andheri building’s basement in 2013. “When my first   teacher asked me to ‘do Sous-sus’, I laughed,” says Singh, who only later figured that the teacher wasn’t commanding him to pee but to ‘draw his legs tightly together’.
 
  
  
 
 
 A Kanpur boy, Singh used to practise B-boying steps on soft ‘kaali mitti’ (compost) near a gutter back home before running away to alien Mumbai to meet his dance idol from TV, choreographer Ashley Lobo. Singh then worked as a sweeper and even a watchman to get by after being accepted in Lobo’s 2013 ‘Going Home’ project that used to provide free training to gifted kids in many art forms including ballet. In this project, Singh’s mates included Amiruddin Shah (15), a welder’s son who recently made headlines for securing a full scholarship at American Ballet Theatre’s Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis School, and Manish Chauhan (21), who is currently training at Portland’s Oregon Ballet Theatre. Together with small-town boy Singh — who has performed in nine countries so far — their journeys point to the curious trend of gritty Indian street dancers pirouetting their way into the expensive, dainty snow globe of ballet.
 
 What’s forging this ascent across the country is the keen, hungry eye of ballet instructors. Just as Israeli-American ballet teacher Yehuda Maór spotted a possible “future Zubin Mehta of Indian ballet” in Amiruddin Shah’s naturally arched feet at Lobo’s dance studio The Danceworx two years ago, other instructors such as Delhi-based Sanjay Khatri too, it seems, have been auditioning and training talented street dancers for free for foreign ballet scholarships. Beneficiaries include Delhi’s Prince Sharma — a Pitampura-based property dealer’s son who trained at Khatri’s Central Contemporary Ballet studio for nine months before becoming the first Indian to attend a one-year programme at Washington’s Kirov Academy of Ballet — and Patel Nagar resident Purnendu Das, the son of an e-rickshaw driver, who returned from a two-month internship at South Korea’s PAS Dance Movement Centre last year. 
 
 At roughly Rs 5 lakh to Rs 15 lakh per year, training in such foreign ballet academies is expensive. While they get scholarships, the rest of the expenses such as accommodation are personally managed by them and their teachers through crowdfunding. But, given India’s poor ballet infratructure, that’s the only way to grow in the dance form. Plus there is a dearth of certified Indian ballet trainers which is where ‘imported’ teachers like Yehuda Maor play a role. The 74-year-old feels ballet — which originated in 15th-century Italy — somehow jumped over India while percolating through the world. “Almost every other country in the world including tiny Singapore has a ballet company of its own,” says the instructor, who has nervously taught ballet on perilous, injury-causing cement and marble floors in India.
 
 Besides routinely confusing ballet with belly, Indians also lack knowledge of western classical music. When Maor’s assistant, Yuko Harada, asks students if they know about Beethoven and Mozart, “they ask if these are names of Italian dishes,” she says.
 
 In a way, ballet — which developed into a concert dance form in France and Russia — seems to have survived in India, despite India. Thirty-year-old Khatri — who was drawn to ballet at age 19 by the urge to execute Jean Claude Van Damme-like splits — still recalls friends and strangers in Chanakyapuri laughing at his veneer-thin, crotch-hugging tights during one of his earliest performances. Some would later even ask Khatri — perhaps the first Indian man to professionally enter the world of tutus and pink ribbons — questions about his sexuality. Since those days though, the number of boys in Khatri’s class has doubled today and the ballerino is now busy importing costumes and tying up with teachers from South Korea where he had trained for a year at the Universal Ballet Company. “Ballet is growing in India because of exposure to reality shows, internet and YouTube,” says Khatri.
 
 In fact, one of the three boys in the 200-strong Bharucha School of Ballet, Omkar Ghatod — a 23-year-old graphic designer who has been learning ballet for long enough to know how to reduce the circumference of his hands in order to increase the speed of his pirouettes — has the kind of mother who applies pain-relief ointment on his sore legs after each class. “Parents want correct dancing, not the shake your bottom kind that makes you look like you’re throwing a tantrum onstage,” explains ballet teacher Villoo Bharucha, referring to the growing preference for ballet.
 
 While parents still ask Khatri if they can increase the length of the skirts to reuse them for birthday parties, their questions have matured, finds Lobo. Today, parents ask about the prospects of their kids pursuing dual dance degrees in universities abroad. The international exposure is especially helpful for earthy Indians. Prince Sharma, for instance, who dropped out of Class XI to learn ballet had never stepped outside Delhi, till he flew to Washington’s Kirov Academy of Ballet in 2015. Initially, it took him a month to adjust to dancing to a live piano setup. Then, during “partner work”, he would stumble while lifting girls, who would invariably be taller than him. “Haven’t you eaten today?” his Russian teachers would ask 
 
 Sharma. So he started eating beef and pork in the US in addition to chicken and also made it a point to enter class after finishing a quota of pushups in the gym.
 
 Today, if you discount tailors who ask while stitching tutus if “people wear anything underneath the skirt” and also the odd question about sexuality that male ballet trainers such as Swapnil Pawaskar have learnt to deflect with stock replies such as “I have travelled and been with more beautiful girls than you can dream of”, the Indians learning ballet are clearly a determined lot. That quality becomes apparent when Singh confesses that he cycles from Goregaon to his dance class in Andheri, a distance of roughly 7km, every morning at 6am. Just like he learnt English on his own, his next goal is to sculpt his body for dance so he can set an example for the kids back home in Kanpur. “They are more talented than city kids who have everything,” says Singh, going on to finish that unpleasant cup of mango yoghurt.
 
