NAGPUR: Nagpurians, especially Bengalis, enjoyed a musical treat on Sunday as Baul songs, Kolkata’s traditional folk music, were presented by three native artistes of Maatirgaan, a music group. Gobinda Dey, Subharata Sen and Manas Sarkar, Kolkata’s noted Baul singers, put up a musical extravaganza at the event dedicated to Baul music at Lokmanya Tilak Sabhagruha, Kasturba Bhavan, Bajaj Nagar. Baul is a state which, in English, refers to as ‘the mad one’.

 Talking of Bengal folk singing tradition and the origin of Baul, Sen said, “During Lord Buddha’s time, philosophy was disseminated through poems which were made appealing by adding melody, popularly known today as Baul songs. The songs are anti-communal and humanity is the only religion. References to Lord Krishna and Radha in the songs are symbolic.
 
 ‘Manush bhojle shonar manushobhe,’ ‘Ae manav deho andhkar,’ ‘Dhoklabaji dhokaipore andaaje jorli saadhan,’ ‘Masjid ghare Allah thaake na’ were some of the songs presented by the trio. 
 
 Most of the songs were originally sung by most important poet-practitioner of the Baul tradition, Lalon Fakir. Sen explained the essence of each song as he began performing it. They played music using a number of traditional Bengali and Bangladeshi musical instruments like Ektara, dotara, dupki, Bangla dhol, sarinda and khomok. All the songs sung at the event were at least over 100 years old, said Sen, the frontman and the singer. The songs are acoustic, liberal and make no discrimination on the basis of caste or gender.
 
 A blend of Buddhism, Sufism and Vaishnavite traditions, the songs also focus on love and spreading of love. They are lively but sounds of musical instruments depend on the mood of the player; the instrument will reflect the mood, added Sen. 
 
 The trio ended the performance with a song by Kabir. “Being anti-communal in nature, fakir’s homes are burned and beards are chopped in Bangladesh. It is still happening,” said Sen, pointing to an issue troubling Baul artistes.
 
 The event was organized by Mahatma Gandhi Smarak Nidhi, Rangdhun and Indian People’s Theatre Association (IPTA).
 
 The music group Maatirgaan was formed last year, and has come to Nagpur following a cultural festival in Bhopal. Sen also conducts online classes and claims to have students across all countries. 
 
 In 2005, the Baul tradition was included in the list of "Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity" by UNESCO.
 
 
