UDAIPUR: Forty persons have been taken under   in connection with the armed communal clashes that broke out on Thursday night in several parts of Banswara city leading to breach of peace and order in the area. 

 On Friday night too, minor incidents of stone pelting and scuffles were reported in Khantwada and Kalika Mata under  . People even reportedly pelted stones at the police caravan while the latter were taking out a peace march in the affected areas on Friday evening. 
 
 “ There have been no single incident of violence on Saturday and things are returning to normalcy. Situation is totally under control,” Kaluram Ravat, Banswara SP told TOI. 
 
 On Saturday, people remained confined to homes and the city streets wore a deserted look as there was no relaxation granted to the curfew that was imposed on Friday noon. 
 
 Rural development and Panchayati Raj minister   held peace talk with representatives of both the communities and initiated for an amicable solution over the religious site issue that had been the root cause of the communal riot that disturbed the law and order condition in the area.
 
 According to sources, the groups have been at loggerheads over a disputed religious site in Kalika Mata area for 19 years now. On Thursday night, the groups had clashed with each other when ‘Shab-e- Baraat’ procession was passing by the locality at around 11 PM. Members of both the groups pelted stones, attacked each other with swords, rods and sticks and even damaged police cameras when the cops tried to intervene. A lady police officer’s fingers were chopped during one of such scuffle while more than 10 policemen sustained injuries. Some three dozen people were hurt during various incidents, police said. The curfew in the entire city area made life difficult for people who couldn’t get essential commodities like milk, vegetables and edible goods for the two continuous days. Internet services remained suspended that too posed much discomfort for the people who felt disconnected with the outer world. 
 
