GHAZIABAD: Middlemen have allegedly begun exploiting meat and poultry shopowners who are out of job in   after the state government’s crackdown on their illegal outlets. Hoardings promising licences within 48 hours have cropped up in several markets even as hundreds of prospective meat shopowners are trying to figure out the procedure to procure licences.

 At the entrance of Bihari Market in   2 of Indirapuram, where at least a dozen poultry and fish shopowners have become jobless overnight, a huge billboard promising licences within 48 hours without any legwork has been placed against a pole.
 
 This, when the district administration says that it will take at least 15 days to procure a licence from the day on which hard copies of documents are submitted with the food safety department.
 
 Till Wednesday, not a single licence had been issued in Ghaziabad, according to district administration officials. According to the district administration, licences can be handed out only through an online application process via the website of the Food Safety & Standards Authority of India (FSSAI).
 
 Subsequently, applications will have to submit hard copies of requisite documents with the district food safety department.
 
 Samsad Ali, convener of a meat sellers’ association, said that most of the prospective applicants were totally illiterate or possessed only basic levels of education. 
 
 “None of them is computer-literate. We are not able to figure out to how to apply online. We went to the municipal corporation and the collectorate too. The officials we spoke to said there is no order yet from the state government to issue licences. These middlemen have been charging anywhere between Rs 3,000 and Rs 4,500 each from us in return for facilitating licences,” Ali said.
 
 According to the district administration, so far nearly 70 persons have applied online for licences.
 
 Ghaziabad district magistrate Nidhi Kesarwani, told TOI that clearances would be required from five departments before a licence could be given. 
 
 “These departments are the police, administration, chief veterinarian, municipal corporation and pollution control board. Directions have been issued to ensure that licences are issued within 15 days of submission of documents. Strict action will be taken if any middleman tries to exploit licence seekers,” Kesarwani said.
 
 
