TRICHY: Concerned at the increasing population in six taluks in the district, the public health and family welfare department has initiated   measures to reduce the high birth order in the taluks. 

 The public health department considers two children per woman a normal birth order and any number above that of high birth order. A survey conducted by the public health department and the family welfare department through the village health nurses (VHN) found that the rural areas in six blocks of 14 taluks in the district had a high number of   of high birth order. The blocks were identified as Thathaingarpettai, Manapparai, Marungapuri, Vaiyampatti, and Pullambadi. As per the 2011 census data,   district had a population of 27,22,290. 
 
 To start with, the health department recently conducted a programme among the mothers at Kovilpatti village in Marungapuri taluk ,where a total of 867 women of high birth order did not follow any of the permanent or temporary contraceptive measures. The number of women who had three or more children was 220 in the block. 
 
 Accordingly, the health department devised two plans – permanent measure and temporary measure. As per plan one, 532 women with two children were advised to go for permanent measure and 133 women who had two children were suggested for temporary measure. As per plan two, the 220 women with three or more children were advised to undergo puerperic sterilisation (PS) or laparoscopic sterilisation (LS).
 
 “We resorted to the steps to control the population. At the same time, we cannot force anyone to go either for permanent or temporary measure. On the other hand, we have the responsibility to educate them about the population and their role in keep it in control,” deputy director of health services (DDHS) Dr I Raveendran told TOI. 
 
 The government doctors will be available at the primary health centre (PHC) at Valanadu in Trichy to carry out puerperic sterilisation and laparoscopic sterilisation every Monday. Medical termination of pregnancy (MTP) is also being done by female doctors at the Valanadu PHC. The temporary measure of inserting an intra-uterine device (IUD) is being done at the primary health centres at T Sukkampatti, Sevalpatti, Karumalai, Kallamedu and   on week days. 
 
 Besides the permanent contraceptive measures, the doctors have been advising couples to keep four years of spacing period between the birth of babies. Women can use oral pills and IUD to avoid untimely pregnancy.
 
 
