Leading an active lifestyle all her life, weighing 108 kilos after giving birth to her triplets was a brand new struggle for Smita Koteshwara. Soon she injured her knees and started to slip into depression. Her doctors gave up on her but she didn't. One day she went back to working out and has never looked back again. This is her journey of losing 40 kgs with pure wit! 

 
  Smita Koteshwara
 
 
  108 Kgs
 
 
  40 Kgs
 
 
  5'6"
 
 
  Since the age of 16, I used to exercise almost every day until I got pregnant with triplets at the age of 30. During my pregnancy, I gained tremendously which was necessary for a successful triplet pregnancy. I was on bed rest since my 4th month and had completely stopped walking. After delivering healthy triplet babies, my body changed drastically. I suffered terrible blood loss and ACL ligament tear. After staying with injured knees for almost 2 years, I consulted a few physical therapists. But they soon gave up on me and advised me to go for a surgery instead. I had some inhibitions against a surgical treatment as I had small children and my family was not in a position to handle my post operative conditions. This also made me give up my medical profession and I was heading towards depression. 
 
 Fighting back with my grim situation, I made up my mind to get back on my exercise routine. I took a steroid shot on my knees to get rid of swelling and started doing exercise regularly. After working out for one and a half hour per day for 4-5 days a week for a year, I lost 36 kilos.
 
 
  As I have a busy schedule, managing my work with my babies, I have no time to prepare special meals for myself. I manage to stick to my low carb diet and eat light. I try to eat after every two hours.
 
  
  1 banana and 2 cups of coffee (1 per cent reduced fat milk) or 1 nutrition bar and 2 cups of coffee. Sometimes, I go for 1 slice of wheat bread and 2 tbsp of low fat cream cheese and 2 cups of coffee (since I love coffee, I can't skip it).
 
 
  I hardly get time to make chapatis. So, I usually have one wheat tortilla, 1 cup of vegetables and a bowl of dal and raita. Sometimes, I eat pasta with sautéed vegetables with one glass of buttermilk.
 
 
  A bowl of fruits.
 
 
  One cup of tea or coffee with 1 or 2 crackers. 
 
 
  Usually I eat dinner around 9 or 10 pm because my schedule doesn't permit it earlier. I am an ovo-vegetarian, so twice a week I eat 3 egg whites and 2 slices of wheat bread for dinner. Usually, I try to keep my dinner light.
 
 
 
 
 
  Weekend dinners... I hate sweets but I love spicy food. I have a special liking for Biryani. I love Indo-Chinese and Italian food. So, almost every Friday and Saturday night, I have either of these cuisines.
 
 
  One and a half hour per day for 4-5 days a week. I always start with cardio, 20-30 minutes elliptical exercise followed by weight lifting, squats, core strengthening and abdomen exercises. I try to stay active throughout my workout sessions by resting only for 30 seconds in between each session which helps me stay energetic.
 
 
  I don't believe in low calorie recipes but try to stay away from cheese, fried foods and sweets. I feel if you stay active throughout the day without staying idle for a long time, you tend to burn more calories.
 
 
  It takes perseverance and patience to be successful in whatever you do. I used to face humiliation because of my increased weight and felt handicapped and helpless because of my torn knees. I couldn't spend quality time with my kids and husband. But I knew that if I want a normal life, I have to work hard towards it. Today after a year of vigorous workout and a normal diet plan, I feel happy and energetic.
 
 
  After every workout session, I feel strong. I feel a rush of adrenaline throughout my body. The more you workout, the more you get rid of your depressed thoughts and weaknesses. So, workout itself is my motivation. This along with, of course, shopping for smaller sized dresses keep me more determined. 
 
 
  From my past experience, I have learnt that exercise not only helps in losing weight but also boosts your confidence level. There is no short cut like dieting or taking pills. When I started exercising, I felt happy and now I am leading a normal life with a much stronger pair of legs.
 
 
 .
 
