PATNA: The six minor children in the family of Dinanath Prasad were still not understanding why everyone around them on their Bhatta Road residence in Danapur on the outskirts of Patna has been wailing since Sunday. Tanya (7), the eldest one among them, was still trying to reach her father on phone on Monday, not ready to accept that he would never pick up her call. Her mother and aunt, both named Rinku Devi, had their eyes puffy from continuous crying. The two women knew their husbands would never come back with the   ‘prasad’! 

 Dinanath’s wife Rajkumari Devi kept on wailing, “I had asked both of them not to go this time; they didn’t listen…Why did the God punish us like this?” The children sometimes start crying, looking at their mothers and grandparents. 
 
 Small-time utensils trader Dinanath has lost his two of the four sons in the road accident on way to Amarnath. The Jammu and Kashmir State Road Transport Corporation (JKSRTC) bus carrying his sons Pavan Kumar (35) and Dilip Kumar (33) among the pilgrims skidded off the road and rolled down into the ravine at Nachlana belt of Ramban during the Amarnath Yatra on Sunday. Pavan and Dilip were among the 16 pilgrims who died in the accident.
 
 Their relatives said Pavan has left behind four children and Dilip two, all below seven years of age. 
 
 Pavan had been to the Amarnath Yatra thrice before and his younger brother Dilip accompanied him this time. People close to the family said the brothers had talked to their younger siblings Rajiv Kumar and Ravi Kumar on phone on Saturday and told them about reaching Jammu safely and promising to call again after having the ‘darshan’ of Amarnath Shivalinga. 
 
 Dinanath was at his Tarkariya Bazaar utensils shop when the news reached him late Sunday evening. He fainted. Passersby spotted him in an unconscious state and rushed him to his residence. 
 
 Earnings from the utensils shop were insufficient for the large family of 14. Pavan used to support the family by selling utensils on a cart at Danapur Bazaar while Dilip worked at a jewellery shop near Chaudhrana Mor to contribute to their family income. 
 
 
