CHENNAI: It is good news, at last, for parents who had paid several lakhs of rupees to film producer   for MBBS seats in  .

 On Wednesday, the SRM group has agreed to disburse all the received money to the respective parents, from out of Rs 75 crore that is lying in a city court as deposit, said  , counsel for parents who moved the Madras high court for either refund of money or admission in  . The money was deposited as precondition for the release of SRM University chancellor   on bail.
 
 On Wednesday, an affidavit was filed before the XI metropolitan magistrate court in Saidapet requesting the court to disburse the money to victims, who had lodged their complaints against  .
 
 Madhan collected more than Rs 64 crore from 111 parents, promising them medical seats in SRM group institutions. Paul Kanagaraj told the high court that the money was paid after Pachamuthu met each of the parent and promised admission. Madhan absconded with the money leaving behind a ‘suicide’ note in May, only to be arrested by police in Tirupur last month. Pachamuthu too was arrested after high court raised pertinent questions and appointed special officer to probe the case.
 
 Pachamuthu was granted bail on September 8 on the condition that he deposit Rs 75 crore in court, surrender his passport, apart from a personal bond of Rs 10 lakh has also been sought along with a two sureties.
 
 On Wednesday, the counsel for pachamuthu, filed the common counter claimed that on satisfying the genuineness of the claims of the complainants, if the court is of the opinion that the disbursement from the deposit of Rs75 crore deposited by Pachamuthu would suffice relief to the legally deserving parents, Pachamuthu claimed in his petition that he had no objection to do so on the condition that the complainants shall withdraw their complaints filed against him.
 
 Pachamuthu also claimed that th amount recovered from the arrested Madhan at the time of investigation shall be paid to him. He also sought the court to decide to pass such and other orders as this court may deem fit in the circumstances of the case and thus render justice.
 
 Of the total of 123 complaints lodged against Pachamuthu and Madhan of cheating, at least 40 students have filed their petitions through advocate R C Paul Kanagaraj. “The remaining 73 students, who have yet to file affidavit before the XI Metropolitan Magistrate Court in Saidapet, shall also get their money back after they approach the court, said Paul Kanagaraj.
 
 Paul Kanagaraj took the first initiative to take up the issue before the Madras high court, following the Madras high court had rapped the police for not questioning Pachamuthu’s role in a medical admission scam.
 
 Police arrested Pachamuthu on August 26 and four days after his arrest on charges of cheating medical courses aspirants, SRM University chancellor T R Pachamuthu alias Parivendhar offered to deposit Rs69 crore with the trial court to let him out on bail. The court issued orders to deposit Rs75 crore to get bail in the case and he deposited the money.
 
 During the course of hearing, advocate R C Paul Kanagaraj representing at least 40 parents,who had allegedly paid money to secure medical seats in the university, submitted that instead of depositing the money with the court, it may be directly paid to the parents. However, the judges said, “It is to be ascertained as to whether any money was paid, to whom it was paid and finally to whom it had gone.”
 
 According to complaints lodged with the police, S Madhan of Vendhar Movies had collected Rs 75cr from parents to secure admission in the medical college belonging to SRM group. However, Madhan disappeared in May after a purportedly writing a note that the money collected from the parents have been given to the SRM Group, and that he was going to kill himself. Meanwhile, in a statement Pachamuthu clarified that he is not connected with Madhan as he was expelled from IJK party, founded by him.
 
