The sealing of terraces and rooftops of restaurants in   might have spelt bad news for restaurateurs and diners in Delhi, but the situation in Gurgaon is sunnier, and about to get better. Gurgaon has a number of eateries that have open-air dining, with easier rules to run rooftop and terrace operations than in Delhi, restaurateurs say. And soon, they will also be allowed to serve liquor in their outdoor areas. Which means no more hopping in and out of the bar, and also being able to order that wine that complements your meal if you want to eat outdoors.

  
 
 Currently, eateries in Gurgaon are allowed to serve only food in their outdoor area (terrace or rooftop) but no liquor. Restaurateurs presented their case to the Excise Department last year, and it has agreed to add serving of alcohol in outdoor dining as an additional point to its current licence, if restaurants fulfil certain conditions. One of the points mentioned in the circular by the Excise Department in response to restaurateurs' appeal to be allowed to run rooftop operations states, "The open space shall be treated as an additional point and be allowed on payment of a fee of 10 % of the licence fee." Around 30-40 restaurants in Cyber Hub alone have already paid the additional fee and have fulfilled the other requirements in the memo, and are awaiting the final approval from Excise.
 
 
  
  Picture for representational purposes only (BCCL)
 
 "There are around 10 requirements for us to fulfil in the memo and most restaurants in Cyber Hub have paid the additional fee in January, and are awaiting the final response from the Excise Department. The last point states that 'while recommending the case for granting additional point in an open space, the map of the open space shall be personally certified by the Deputy Excise and Taxation Commissioner'. So once that is done, restaurants that have already fulfilled the criteria can legally serve alcohol on terraces," says  , vice president of the   ( ) and owner of Beer Café.
 
 "I have four outlets, and for two of them (in Cyber Hub and DLF Phase IV), I have paid the fee and completed the formalities. Once we have the permission, we’ll be free to use the open area for serving guests. The annual license fee for restaurants in Gurgaon to serve liquor is Rs 12.5 lakh. The 10% comes to Rs 1.25 lakh, which most of the restaurants have deposited with the department," Singh adds.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 For restaurateurs who have outlets in both Delhi and Gurgaon, it is a big relief to have clarity regarding terrace dining in Gurgaon. "In Delhi, we all know what has happened in CP, and after the sealing drive in CP, we are careful even at places like Hauz Khas Village and Khan Market. We have realised that it is better to keep terraces shut than to get in trouble with the authorities. Permission to be allowed to run terrace operations has been an issue with the NDMC for long in Delhi. At least in Gurgaon, that is not the situation. We have clarity that there is a certain procedure to be followed, and we will be allowed to use a part of our premises for open-air dining. Policies in Haryana are far better and clearer when it comes to doing business than in Delhi, so it is easier to run a restaurant in Gurgaon than in Delhi," says a restaurateur who runs an outlet in Delhi and at Cyber Hub. 
 
  Inderjeet Banga, owner of Prankster at Sector 29, adds, "The good thing is that we have a policy in place, a representation was made by the restaurant body in November-end and we had a reply from the Excise Department in December. In January, restaurants paid their fee and followed other instructions and soon, we will be legally allowed to serve guests in our open-air dining. At least there will be no fear or ambiguity."
 
 
  
  Picture for representational purposes only (BCCL/   Gautam)
 
 
 
 
 Restaurateurs feel that outlets, especially at a place like Cyber Hub, need outdoor operations as "a majority of guests do not want to enter in an air-conditioned glass room where they spend their entire day."
 
  Says   from Soi 7 Pub & Brewery, "The profile of guests in Gurgaon is very different from Delhi’s. We have expats and corporate employees who’d want to have their meal or a drink outdoors after spending their entire day in an air-conditioned building."
 
  Sharad Madan from   adds, "We were earlier serving food outdoors, but till we get the additional point license, we have shut the open-air area, as most guests would want to have their meal outdoors and if we only serve them food and not liquor, they ask questions. Most of them are foreigners who ask why they can’t have a glass of wine with their food when they sit outdoors. With other guests, even if we tell them that currently we are only serving food outdoors, they fetch a drink from the bar and bring it out, and it is difficult to chase every guest. And if someone is already drunk, they do not listen if we refuse them a drink outdoors. So to avoid all these problems, for the time being, we have shut the outdoor area, but all this will be sorted once we will have final permissions."
 
  
 
 
