KOLKATA: The police claimed they had actor Vikram Chatterjee's blood sample collected at Ruby   within the stipulated six hours of the car crash, in which his co-passenger, model Sonika Singh   was killed on April 29.The sample has been sent to the state forensic lab to ascertain if the alcohol content in Vikram's blood was above the permissible limits. “The sample was sent for a forensic test last Monday and we are expecting the report by the end of this week,“ said an officer. The blood test report could hold the key to determine if Vikram was driving under the influence of alco hol, turning into the most crucial piece of evidence, besides witnesses' accounts, the police said.

 Even though medico-legal provisions allows hospitals to use their own discretion and carry out a blood-alcohol test in fatal or near-fatal drink driving cases, Kolkata hospitals wait for the police's advice.Hospitals can't force the test on an individual and most wait for the police to seek the test report and rarely act on their own.Some hospitals admitted it often allows drunken drivers to slip through the net. In this case, however, the police claimed the hospital concerned did collect Vikram's blood sample and sent it to them. But hospital sources declined to comment.
 
 The law also allows doctors to perform “a complete and thorough clinical examination of the accused... and frame opinions based solely on the clinical assessment of the patient“. But hospitals refrain from even collecting blood samples without the police's nod. “It will be an infringement on the privacy of the patient, so we don't do it. Unless, of course, the police ask for the report. In such cases, we pass on the report to the local police station,“ said  , CEO, AMRI Hospitals.
 
 Belle Vue Clinic follows a similar pattern, though it doesn't have the facility to get the test done internally . “Whenever there is a road accident case, we alert the local police station and wait for the investigating officer to arrive even as treatment contionues. If there is a specific instruction to get the blood-alcohol level checked, we collect and send the blood sample to an agency that prepares the report,“ said P Tondon, CEO, Belle Vue.
 
 A clinical examination was enough to determine if the motorist in question was under the influence of alcohol, said a critical care expert. “We look out for alcohol smell and in case it's there, we document it. But a test is rarely done. In almost all fatal cases, the police ask for the report. But drivers involved in near-fatal accidents often get away without one. In case of accidents not resulting in death or serious injuries, we are told to be lenient and not record the fact that the driver was drunk to ensure the insurance money is not blocked,“ he said.
 
 Some hospitals, however, do a quick alcohol test in case the driver is unconscious to ascertain the extent to which the unconsciousness was caused by the injury .“Sometimes, it is the combined effect of the injury and alcohol. Unless we check, we won't know. This could affect treatment. But so far as I know, in case of fatal accidents, it is mandatory to get the test done,“ said  , head, critical care, Medica Superspecialty Hospital.
 
 He added if the alcohol level in blood crossed the permissible limit, traces of alcohol could be found in blood even 24 hours later. “It is easy to calculate the exact alcohol content in blood at the time of accident even if a test is not done immediately ,“ said Kar.
