Puducherry: Police arrested two people on Thursday for murdering a 17-year-old juvenile by beheading him and throwing the severed head into a police station in Cuddalore district on Wednesday. The arrested were identified as S Vinod Kumar, 25, and V Dass, 18, from Bahour on the outskirts of Puducherry town. Police have launched a hunt for Sharma Vanan, another accused believed to be involved in the crime.

 Police said the murdered Suvedhan, a school dropout, was in contact with many antisocial elements including a rowdy Ravisankar, who was murdered by a rival gang on April 25. Two of Ravisankar’s friends too were arrested recently in connection with a chain snatching case.
 
 Suvedhan and his aides suspected that Vinod Kumar, another member of their gang, had tipped off the police leading to the arrest of two members and murder of Ravisankar, and decided to eliminate Kumar. However, learning about Suvedhan’s plans, Kumar decided to bump off the juvenile. 
 
 On Thursday, Kumar took Suvedhan from his home for consuming liquor to a vacant plot near a lake at Bahour. There, along with his accomplices Dass and Vanan, Kumar killed Suvedhan, severed his head, and left the torso behind. Kumar and Dass then carried the head in a motorcycle and threw it into the Reddichavadi police station premises in Cuddalore.
 
 The chilling murder triggered tension in the area. Senior superintendent of police (law and order) Rajiv Ranjan of the UT said police managed to trace and nab the two of the three accused in coordination with the Cuddalore police within 12 hours. 
 
 “The two accused threw the severed head of the juvenile into the premises of Reddichavadi police station in Cuddalore district (Tamil Nadu) thinking that Tamil Nadu police will register a case against them and they will be lodged in Cuddalore prison where they could avail all facilities. The gang leader (Kumar) believed that tossing the severed head into the police station will earn him notoriety,” said Ranjan.
 
 Police recovered a motorcycle and knives used for committing the murder. Kumar, a history-sheeter, was booked by police in several cases including theft and mischief. Police produced the two before a magistrate who remanded them to judicial custody.
 
 
