PUNE: When most people want to save cash, the initiative for   at   airport has found few takers.

 Babulal Yadav, the contractor of the two parking lots at the airport, said 90% people were opting to pay the parking fee in cash despite the introduction of six card reader machines and an e-wallet for the motorists. Yadav claimed the action of people proved they had cash in hand. But sources and a few motorists said spots like parking lots were a good option to get change for higher denomination notes.
 
 “We have taken several steps after the demonetisation move to ensure people are not harassed if they have no cash. By mid-December, we had installed six PoS (point of sale) machines in two parking lots managed by us. Last week, we started a mobile wallet for those who didn’t want to use their cards. But until now, majority of the people are paying us in cash,” Yadav said.
 
 He said he was not refusing change to people showing up with currency notes of Rs2,000. “If we have change, we do provide it to the customers,” he added.
 
 People working in the parking lot have a different story.
 
 “There are quite a few who come here looking for change. Among the few places where people can expect getting a change for currency notes of Rs2,000 are petrol pumps and parking lots like these. Some of the drivers have told us that the owners of the vehicles provide them with Rs2,000 so that once they start coming out of the parking lot, we don’t have any choice but to provide them with the change,” a representative said.
 
 Another representative of the parking lot said some vehicle owners used clever tactics. “They call up their drivers, asking them to leave the parking lot with vehicles after their work is done. And they make sure that they have given the driver a higher denomination currency note,” he said.
 
 A driver of a sedan parked at a parking lot said, “In the past two weeks, I have been here at least three times with my employer to pick up his business guests. Each time, I was told to offer Rs2,000 note and get the change. My employer asks me to exit from the parking lot at least five minutes before he is ready with his guests near the departure gate.”
 
 The parking charges, which are uniform across the airports, stand at Rs110 for an SUV for two hours, Rs100 for other vehicles for the same time and Rs25 for two-wheelers. The two parking lots cater to at least 1,500-2,000 vehicles each.
 
 With more than 50 days now since demonetisation, a majority of people in the city are still feeling the cash crunch with many ATMs having their shutters down. Those open are mostly dispensing Rs 2,000 notes.
 
