SECUNDERABAD: If the  's plan is executed smoothly, garbage woes in the area could soon come to an end. The SCB has identified new garbage lifting points in all the eight civilian wards, where garbage bins will be placed. 

 The SCB's move comes in the wake of protests by people against garbage pile-ups in the absence of fixed garbage lifting points in the civilian wards. Sanitation wing officials identified two locations in each of the civilian wards in addition to the existing locations. This will prevent spilling of garbage onto roads in residential areas.
 
 "Currently, garbage is lifted from a few points in the Cantonment. It is dumped near the community hall in Trimulgherry. After identifying new locations, we have purchased 100 new bins. They will be placed at identified points in a day or two. Most of the bins will be placed near SCB toilet complexes," SCB sanitation wing official M Devender told STOI. 
 
 For instance, officials in Ward No I identified garbage collection points at Nandmuri Nagar, Bapuji Nagar, and Netaji Nagar. Bins will be placed near Beerappa temple and Anna Nagar in Ward No-II, Mudfort and Karkhana in Ward No-III, Picket and Laxmi Nagar in Ward No-IV, Gandhi Nagar and Kakaguda in Ward No-V, Kanta Basthi and Trimulgherry in Ward No-VI, Shanti Nagar, and China Kamela in Ward No-VII, and Doutan Bazar in Ward No-VIII, he said.The SCB has informed the residents to dump garbage only at these identified locations. SCB vehicles will lift garbage from these locations everyday. The SCB has decided to impose huge penalties on residents, who dump garbage in open plots, as per the Cantonment Act. The quantum of penalty could be around 10,000, but the exact amount will be decided soon. The SCB lifts about 180 metric tonnes of garbage per day from all civilian wards. 
 
 Meanwhile, the proposed 'refuse-derived fuel' (RDF) unit on premises of   continues to remain on paper. The   sanctioned 50 crore for this unit that will generate power from garbage. 
 
 
