THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: As many as 660 volunteers selected from   grama panchayat will pledge to protect the water resources in the constituency. 

 Members for the ‘Jalamitram’ volunteer groups are selected by Suchitwa Mission and Youth Welfare Board as part of Jalasmarudhi, a   project being implemented in Kattakada on the sidelines of Haritha Kerala Mission.
 
  will be formally launched in an event to be held at Government Girls Higher Secondary School, Malayinkeezhu, on Saturday. Tourism minister Kadakampally Surendran will inaugurate the convention at 3pm. MLA I B Satheesh will preside over the event and district collector S Venkatesapathy will deliver the keynote address.
 
 Each group of Jalamitram comprises five members and such groups have been formed in 122 wards in Kattakada. The members of Jalamitram will collect data on water resources in the wards, implement water conservation activities by coordinating with the various government departments, create awareness on proper utilization of available water and encroachment on public ponds, conduct activities to protect the public ponds and wells, and monitor the rain water pits constructed as part of  .
 
 Prior to the inauguration, a workshop for the volunteers has been arranged. District panchayat president V K Madhu will inaugurate the workshop and Haritha Kerala Mission vice-chairperson T N   will deliver the keynote address.
 
 Suchitwa Mission executive director K Vasuki will lead a session on cleanliness and water conservation. Land use commissioner of Kerala State Land Use Board Nizamudeen A will make a presentation on ‘Jalasamrudhi and Jalamitram’. Management expert   will speak on the relevance of Jalasamrudhi during the workshop. 
 
 With the aim of spreading awareness about water conservation, water clubs were formed in 68 schools in Kattakada. Among the latest activities under the project, 314 ponds are being cleaned and walls of the ponds are being covered with geotextile material to prevent soil erosion. 
 
 
