NAGPUR: The   in collaboration with  , has made some startling and significant discoveries at   at Nagardhan village, some 50 kms from Nagpur. Started in 2015-16, the excavation work was carried out to establish if Nagardhan, or Nandivardhan as it appears in many historical works, are actually the same place and also the capital of   dynasty. The site was closed on Thursday and would be opened again next year at a different location, Virag Sontakke, director excavation told TOI.

 There were two branches of Vaka Taka dynasty that ruled from 250 to 480AD. Pravarpur kings ruled from where Nagardhan village stands today and their kingdom extended up to Raipur. The other were Vasyulma kings who ruled in what is called Washim and their rule extended up to Ajanta and Deccan, informs Sontakke.
 
 “At least 11 copper plates donated to Brahmins by the kings mention Nandivardhan as capital of Vaka Taka dynasty. These have been found from across the state. Historians have been curious and eager to establish the location of the capital of this dynasty as many researchers have also discovered numerous similarities between Nandivardhan and Nagardhan by comparing sculptures found in excavations,” says the director. 
 
 Describing this issue as critical, Sontakke says his department began excavating to also find the beginning of the site. “The most significant discovery we made was that of a sealing of queen Prabhavati Gupta who ruled here for 15 years after the king’s death. She is considered to be a powerful queen who wielded enough administrative powers to have a seal issued in her name.”
 
 Castle like structures along with houses of ordinary people, water drains, wells, coins that are traced back to Kshatrapa, Satavahana dynasty and Allauddin Khilji and religious figurines were discovered during this excavation. “We also found skeleton of elephant, which is very rare. This is only the second time that elephant bones have been discovered in an excavation,” he says adding that his team went 10 metres down while digging.
 
 The findings establish the fact that Nagardhan was an urban centre during Vaka Taka reign and indeed the capital of the dynasty. “By studying and dating the material collected from the site like grains, soil phosphates, animal bones we have also discovered that this was occupied in the early period too.
 
 Along with Sontakke, Shrikant Ganvir and Shantanu Vaidya, faculty members of Deccan College and some research scholars formed the excavation team. “We will be publishing a report of our findings by next month and I also plan to exhibit some objects found during excavation at   as so far there is no article here that tells of this dynasty,” says Sontakke who is also curator of the museum.
 
 The state department of archaeology will undertake another excavation next year to discover evidence of socio-economic life during Vaka Taka rule and expansion of Nagardhan from a city to capital of the dynasty.
 
