PILIBHIT: BJP MP   said on Thursday that SP’s claim of   is a political gimmick and it’s decision to partner with   is like “wrapping dead snakes around its neck”. Addressing a rally in Bisalpur constituency of Pilibhit district, the firebrand leader also said that if BJP forms government in UP, it will permanently shut down all slaughter houses in the state.
 
  “If their work was sufficient to show development work in UP, why did they tie-up with dead snakes like Congress? Why is SP contesting on less than 300 seats?” the BJP MP said. “Let BJP form government in UP, goons of SP, engaged in illegal possession of land, will be thrown behind bars.”
  
  Stressing on the deteriorating law and order situation in UP, Adityanath said, “In the year 2013-14, as many as 3,000 rape incidents had been reported in UP, which increased to 9,000 in 2014-15.” A data released by   in 2016 show that rape cases have gone up from 3,467 in 2014 to 9,075 in 2015.
  
  Eariler, at a rally in Bulandshahr, the leader had urged voters to “remember the rapes and the riots” when they go out to vote on February 11, the first phase of elections in the state. “There are more than 25 towns in UP where exodus (of Hindus) has taken place. Once we are in power we will deal with this menace strictly,” he had said.
  
  Explaining the district’s proximity to Nepal, Adityanath said, “Cow smuggling is rampant from the neighbouring country and SP is unable to curb the illegal activity. If BJP is elected to power, it will ban all slaughterhouses in the state and will never let it reopen.” Closure of illegal slaughterhouses is also a part of BJP’s manifesto in UP. The leader further said that since the district is adjacent to Nepal, it also faces threat of Maoist activities.
  
  While talking about farmers’ rights, Adityanath said, “The BJP government will protect the interests of sugarcane growers and ensure that they are paid within 14 days from the day canes are supplied to sugar mills.” He said that the saffron party will concentrate on the growth of agricultural sector in UP and will waive off all crop loans of marginal farmers, regardless of the amount.
