NEW DELHI: A worried pistol coach Snirnov Pavel looked on from the sidelines as title favourite   shot a 'bad 6.6 shot' in the first of the five-shot series during the men's 50m pistol final here on Wednesday. But the Indian soon found his groove to stay in the hunt before coming up with a late burst to win the gold medal, India's first, at the  .

 Jitu, who followed that 6.6 with a couple of 10-plus shots, finished on top of the podium, ahead of  , who bagged silver. Iran's   secured the bronze. This is a world record under the new competition rules of the ISSF.
 
 Amanpreet came to the final after topping the qualifiers ahead of Jitu and was in sublime touch as the final began. But the shooter, who's making a comeback to the Indian squad after a gap of over three years, failed to hold his nerve towards the end to finish second best. Such was Amanpreet's domination early on that he had taken a massive over 8-point lead over Jitu after 12 shots. But Jitu had the last laugh.
 
 “I am very happy that I came back from the dead. I like to win like this, fighting till the end. I tried to hit well but some bad shots pulled me down. But I regained focus and fought till the end,” Jitu said. “That 6.6 shot was the turning point. It was a very bad shot. But I did not let it affect my concentration.”
 
 Jitu was on the verge of elimination at one stage when he was sixth but he shot a 10.8 out of a maximum 10.9 to jump to third. A few 10 plus scores ensured a fight with Amanpreet for the gold much to the delight of a noisy crowd.
 
 Jitu was 0.3 point behind Amanpreet when the final round of two-shot elimination series started. He shot 10 and 10.5 to seal the issue while Amanpreet shot two 8-plus scores. Jitu's final tally was 230.1, more than three points clear of Amanpreet's 226.9. “I was 0.3 point behind Amanpreet. But I tried to give my best in the last two shots which fetched me the gold. Amanpreet performed well. Just that he lost his way towards the end,” Jitu said. Jitu had won a bronze in 10m air pistol on Tuesday.
 
 Amanpreet admitted that he struggled with his focus towards in the home stretch. “But I am happy with the result since it's my first medal in 21 World Cup appearances.”
 
 Earlier, India had a disappointing start to the day as none of their shooters were able to make it to the final of the women's 25m pistol event. Muskan finished the qualification round at 12th with a score of 576. The two others in fray -   and Surabhi Prakash - finished 23rd and 24th with scores of 571 and 570, respectively.
 
 Thailand opened their account with Naphaswan Yangpaiboon registering an impressive win in the women's 25m pistol. She took the gold with a final score of 38, eight more than that of silver medallist Jingjing Zhang of China, the 2014 world champion. Such commanding was her performance that she was assured of the gold even before the start of the last of the five-shot series in the final. Michelle Skeries of Ger many took the bronze. India too failed to make it to the final in women's skeet. Rashmee Rathord finished 17th, Arti Singh Rao came 23rd and Saniya Sheikh was 27th.
 
 Kimberly Rhode of the US won gold. Thailand's Sutiya Jiewchaloemmit took silver while the bronze went to Chloe Tipple of New Zealand.
 
