COIMBATORE: The much-delayed Avinashi-Athikadavu   finally got a shot in the arm with the state government allocating Rs 250 crore for it in the  . The fund would be used for carrying out groundwork for the project. 

 While most NGOs welcomed the move saying state’s green signal was finally on paper, farmers weren’t that happy as the central government’s nod was yet to come through.
 
 On Thursday morning, state finance minister D Jayakumar announced Rs 250 crore for the land mark project, which is estimated to cost Rs 2,500 crore. The state government had last year allotted Rs 3.27 crore to kick-start the project.
 
 The project aims at channelling the surplus water from   dam during the monsoon season to all the high and dry areas of Coimbatore, Tirupur and Erode districts. The Pilloor dam water would be allowed to flow for 35km after which it would be diverted through two canals at Achampalayam. The water would fill up 40 ponds and 31 lakes maintained by the public works department, through existing streams and artificial channels. If this is done, the groundwater in these areas would get recharged, making it easier for agriculture. Farmers say the groundwater levels could improve from around 1,000 ft to just 50 ft.
 
 There had been massive protests through 2015 and 2016, urging the state government to speed up the project. “Rs 250 crore is a significant amount and it means that the project has started rolling and is not on hold anymore,” said D Prabhu, founder of the federation for   groundwater recharge scheme. “We will get the road map for the project’s execution in a week or month,” he added.
 
 Farmers, however, continue to be skeptical and wondered whether the state government had spent the initial Rs 3.27 crore for the project. “There isn’t any sign of using the initial fund, which was set apart structuring the project,” said Karthik Krishnakumar, a coconut farmer from Kinathukidavu. “The project has to get the Centre’s nod and it might be an excuse for the state to shelve the scheme,” he further said.
 
 Tender for environmental feasibility study for the project, Prabhu said, has been awarded to WAPCOS, a mini ratna public sector enterprise under the aegis of union ministry of water resources, river development and ganga rejuvenation. 
 
 “While the procedure can’t be skipped for a medium irrigation project, it can be put on fast-track. We hope the Centre will do its part to implement the project that had been pending for the past 60 years,” Prabhu added.
 
 
