CHENNAI:   has realised nearly Rs 25,000 crore of investments promised by investors in the first   held in 2015. “Of the total 98 memorandums of understanding signed during the investors’ meet, 62 of them are in the process of setting up opeations in Tamil Nadu. So far, Rs 25,000 crore investments have been realised. This is not a mean achievement for any state government,” said state industries secretary  . 

 As promised, the state is working on holding the second global investors’ meet this year, Kapur said, while addressing the FICCI executive committee in Chennai on Thursday. The state government said Tamil Nadu’s ranking in ease of doing business does not assess a state on its capacity to woo investments. “Tamil Nadu which is ranked 17 among states on ease of doing business is far ahead in terms of wooing investors to the state. The methodology adopted last year on the ranking was changed and we could not comply with the parameters due to the assembly election,” said Kapur. 
 
 But the government is confident of improving its ranking this year. “We are on the job of fulfilling the compliances for the methodology adopted this year. We are hopeful of having a better ranking this year,” said Kapur. 
 
 Stating that the investment climate is robust in the state despite challenges, Kapur said the state is placed better in terms of infrastructure and industrial climate. “We welcome feedback from the industry captains on improving or upgrading the industrial infrastructure, especially on the proposed industrial corridor,” said Kapur. 
 
 School education minister K Pandiarajan praised FICCI for suggestions made by its members on framing rules for goods and services tax (GST). “We are an open government and it is only based on the suggestions given by FICCI members, changes were effected in GST. We received 50 representations from the body on GST,” said the minister. He said entrepreneurial clusters will be developed and this will give Tamil Nadu an added advantage. 
 
 Tamil Nadu FICCI chairman Ar Rm Arun made a presentation on the challenges Tamil Nadu faced in wooing industries. 
 
 
