Hyderabad: Master blaster Sachin Tendulkar backed city startup,   India Pvt Ltd, a technology OEM (original equipment manufacturer) and IoT player, on Friday announced an ambitious Rs 1,500 crore investment over the next three years towards setting up R&D, engineering, manufacturing and data centre facilities. It also plans to increase its headcount to around 500 from the existing 200 this year.

 “The biggest chunk, almost half of Rs 1,500 crore, will be spent towards development and engineering of products. Around one-fourth will be for manufacturing and the remaining one-fourth will be towards back-end solutions and data centre,” Smartron founder and chairman Mahesh Lingareddy said on the sidelines of the launch of the startup’s new office in the city. 
 
 The startup, which has shifted to a bigger office with a seating capacity of 500 in the Gachibowli area, is counting on investors and revenues to fund its ambitious expansion plans.
 
 The company, that was set up in 2014, has invested close to Rs 125 crore till date. In the last quarter, it raised Rs 250 crore and plans to raise another Rs 600 crore this year, for which discussions are underway, Lingareddy said. The company has launched three smart devices for consumer and enterprise markets in product categories such as phones and laptop-tablet hybrid till date. All its products are designed and developed in India, while the manufacturing part is outsourced to China, Taiwan, Korea and some part of it is also done in India by its partners. This year, the company plans to roll out eight products in multiple categories such as electric bikes, routers, wearables and laptops, among others.
 
 In 2016-17, Smartron logged revenues of Rs 50 crore and a major chunk of its sales came the foreign markets. This year, with an aggressive launch pipeline, Smartron will be gunning for Rs 1,000 crore revenues, he added.
 
 On headcount, he said the company has 200 people working across its offices in Hyderabad, Chennai, Bengaluru and New Delhi. In Hyderabad, which is the company’s headquarters, it has 150 people and plans to add another 250 by the end of this year, taking the total Hyderabad office headcount to 400. Overall, the company’s headcount is expected to grow to 500 in 2017, he added. 
 
 The company snapped up Chennai-based automotive player Volta Motors, that develops electric vehicles, earlier this year and is eyeing a couple of more acquisitions in 2017. “We are closely working with four players and we might go for acquisitions or partnerships. These acquisitions will be in the area of healthcare, smart homes, energy and infrastructure,” he added.
 
 Smartron is betting big on IoT and is innovating in the areas of sensor, robotics, artificial intelligence, cloud and big data technologies to bring next generation smart devices and services for consumers, enterprises, industrial and infrastructure segment, among others.
 
 Meanwhile, state minister for IT E&C, MA&UD, industries & commerce, mines & geology, public enterprises and NRI affairs, K T Rama Rao, who inaugurated the office, said that along with handset manufacturing Hyderabad is also emerging as a noted city in the mobile R&D space. While Micromax is all set to set up its R&D facility in Hyderabad, there are other two players in the fray, he added, without disclosing any names.
 
 At the event, Smartron also inked an MoU with the Telangana government wherein it agreed to expand its corporate headquarters, R&D center and set up a data center and collaborate with startups at T-Hub to support innovation and manufacturing of smart devices.
 
 
