Pune: Ujjivan Small Finance Bank (SFB) said it will focus on wholesale (or bulk) deposits in the initial years to grow its deposit base quickly.

 The Bangalore-based institution started its banking operations in Pune by opening four branches here on Wednesday.
 
 “In the interim, as retail liability (deposits) takes a long time to develop, we will raise a lot of wholesale deposits from co-operative institutions, trusts and high net worth individuals. There is a large market that is easily accessible,” Samit Ghosh, MD & CEO, Ujjivan Small Finance Bank, said.
 
 The bank will have to build up a sizeable deposit base quickly in order to bring down its lending costs. In the initial years, the bank’s lending rate will be similar to that of the microfinance entity — at under 26% per year.
 
 “Currently, our interest rates are similar to what we have in microfinance because our operating costs have gone up as we have invested for the bank. Over time, as retail and wholesale deposits come, our funding costs will also come down, and with that we will be able to reduce our interest rates,” Ghosh said.
 
 The bank will also focus on raising retail deposits from existing customers as well as new customers. Ghosh said it has already initiated the account opening process for 17,600 customers in Pune. Ujjivan is present in the city through 9 microfinance branches and has over 83,000 customers.
 
 The bank said it will convert all their microfinance customers to banking customers in a “phased manner”. 
 
 Nationally, the institution has 457 microfinance branches across 24 states and serves a total borrower base of over 35.6 lakhs. Ghosh said the bank plans to convert roughly 30% of these customers into bank depositors by March 2018.
 
 Ujjivan aims to open 171 branches in FY 2018. It also plans to open an additional 53 branches in the unbanked rural areas by March 2017 as part of the RBI mandate to open at least 25% of the branches in rural areas.
 
 The RBI licensed a host of entities to serve as small finance banks in order to cater to the unbanked and underbanked segments of the population. Despite initiatives like Pradhan Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana and other financial initiatives, a lot of people remain outside the ambit of formal banking. Even for Jan-Dhan accounts, about a fourth of the 28.44 crore have seen no activity since their opening.
 
 
