LUCKNOW:   chief Dr   was booked for alleged   of a girl on Saturday. The FIR was registered after a girl died of prolonged liver illness at   on Friday night. Khan is sitting MLA from Khalilabad and is seeking re-election.

 In his complaint to police, the brother of the deceased said Dr Ayyub Khan visited their home during campaign for 2012 assembly elections when he was in Kodia village of Ambedkarnagar for campaign. “He promised that if my sister campaigned for him, he would get her enrolled to a nursing course at a private institute in Lucknow. In 2013, he brought her to Lucknow and helped her get admission to the BSc nursing course,” the complainant claimed.
 
 The brother also alleged in his FIR: “After elections, Dr Ayyub would call my sister at odd hours and exploit her. He used to threaten her of dire consequences, if she reported the matter to her family or police. My sister told me she had informed Ayub about the pain in the abdomen she used to suffer every time he had physical relations with her. After consulting a doctor Ayyub gave her some tablets and that caused her to bleed. He kept forcing her to pop medicines and it caused her kidney and liver to fail. We admitted her to Trauma Centre of KGMUin a critical state at 3am on February 24 and she died at 10pm the next day."
 
 Aliganj police circle officer Meenakshi Gupta said the girl was undergoing treatment for jaundice at a private hospital on Sitapur Road, while on January 20, she was discharged and sent to another private hospital in Gomtinagar. The condition of the girl worsened and she was admitted to KGMU Trauma on Friday morning where she died in the night.
 
 Madiaon police station house officer Nagesh Mishra said, “On the basis of complaint of the brother, we have registered a case on charges of sexual exploitation, culpable homicide not amounting to murder and criminal intimidation.”
 
 Dr Ayyub Khan told TOI on phone that the case is a political conspiracy of a rival supported by another party in his constituency. He also said he had never met the girl or promised her any job in Lucknow. “After winning elections, I visited the complainant’s house once for a wedding function,” Khan told TOI. 
 
 Autopsy of the deceased has revealed that the cause of the death is not ascertained. The body bore no injury marks. The liver and spleen had ruptured. No injuries were found on the genitals. The viscera has been preserved.
 
 
