KANPUR:   (KDA) has apprised the archaeological department that the ambitious Metro rail project is not coming in the way of two important heritage sites of the city.

 The archaeological department has so far not given clearance to   Rail Project and sought some explanations. According to  , two heritages sites -- Subedar ka talab and Nana Rao Saheb Park -- are supposedly coming in the way of IIT-Kanpur to Naubasta Metro route.
 
 The archaeological department had checked with KDA the distance of Metro route alignment from the historical Subedar Ka Talab cemetery at Chunniganj and Memorial well garden in Nana Rao Sahib Park in Phoolbagh.
 
 KDA, in its reply, had enclosed the survey report of RITES which states that at Chunniganj, Subedar ka Talab is around 270 metres away from Metro line and memorial well in Nana Rao Saheb Park at Phoolbagh is 180 meters away. 
 
 “Thus, both the historical places were quite far from the Metro alignment,” said Ashish Shivpuri, chief town planner and KDA pointsman looking after Metro affairs.
 
 Talking to TOI, Shivpuri said, “The Metro line is at a substantial distance from Subedar ka Talab cemetery, but at Memorial well garden its distance from the well is 180 meters. From the park’s boundary the distance is about 80 meters.” 
 
 “If the Archaeological department gives us any suggestion, we would incorporate it in the project,” he added.
 
 Neeraj Srivastava, co-ordinator of Kanpur’s high-power development committee, said that RITES had given its report on the basis of maps and ground position and suggested the contours on which   could be launched in the city. Before finalizing the plan, all departments concerned should go through the report. And if they think that any modification or amendment is needed in the project report, they should make suggestions. 
 
 “The archaeological department would respond soon,” he hoped.
 
 No official of the archaeological department could be reached immediately for comments.
 
 Kanpur Metro Rail Project has identified two routes. The first route is 23.70-km-long and falls between IIT and Naubasta with 22 metro stations, including eight underground stations. The length of the underground track is 15.15 kms while the remaining 8.54-km section is elevated.
 
 The Metro stations on this route are IIT, Kalyanpur railway station, SPM Hospital, Kanpur University, Gurudeo Palace Crossing, Geeta Nagar, Rawatpur Railway Station, LLR Hospital, Motijheel, Chunniganj, Naveen Market, Bara Chauraha, Phoolbagh, Nayaganj, Kanpur Central Station, Jhakarkatti bus station, Transport Nagar, Baradevi, Kidwai Nagar, Basant Vihar, Baudh Nagar and Naubasta.
 
 The second route falls between CSA and Barra 8. Of the 9-km-long route, 4.5-km is elevated while 4.5-km is underground. In all, of the nine stations proposed on this route, four are underground.
 
 
