MALAPPURAM: The district police chief has instructed the inspector of Manjeri police circle to initiate a probe into an alleged case of sexual abuse of a minor girl.

 Police chief   issued the order after Manjeri police was accused of hushing up the case.
 
 It has been alleged that the prime suspect in the case is a senior revenue department official, now posted in  .
 
 The incident was first reported to the   on October 8, 2016. The Childline recorded the statements of the girl and her mother the next day.
 
 It has been alleged that the revenue official, his helper and a businessman sexually abused the nine-year-old girl, hailing from Kuruvambram in Manjeri. She was repeatedly abused after showing her pornographic video clips.
 
 The Childline and Child Welfare Committee forwarded a written complaint to Manjeri police, who allegedly did not act.
 
 Following the police’s inaction, the complaint was lodged with to the district police chief on October 18. The chief forwarded the complaint to Manjeri police, who still did not act.
 
 Meanwhile, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s recently appointed private secretary sought a report on the incident from the district police chief. Behra promised action after the call.
 
 Repeated attempts to contact the private secretary failed.
 
 Sources in Manjeri police, meanwhile, said the girl made a statement to them which was contradictory to what she had told the Childline, and no action could be initiated against the revenue official since there was no allegation against him. “The girl never mentioned that she was abused,” a police source said.
 
 The police’s explanation, however, did not go well with social activist P A Pouran. He said the police had committed a serious offence by ignoring the girl’s statement to the Childline.
 
 “Police could have registered a case in instances of serious offences even without having the survivor’s statement,” he said.
 
 Incidentally, the girl’s mother got acquainted with the official during her frequent visits to the village office for widow pension. They later started living together, and after the woman left for the   on work, he took care of the girl and her grandmother. 
 
