PANAJI: Medical treatment cannot be denied to persons living with HIV (PLHIV) under the HIV AIDS (Prevention and Control) Act 2017 which is expected to be brought into force by the Central government shortly.

 The new act seeks to protect the rights of PLHIV, ensuring there is no discrimination against them in healthcare services, education, employment, public facilities, holding public office, property rights and insurance.
 
 Under the act, hospitals including private will not be permitted to delay surgery or charge different rates for services for PLHIV. “This would amount to discrimination as it imposes a burden on a person based on HIV related grounds,” senior advocate and director of the lawyers collective Anand   said. 
 
 He was delivering a public lecture on demystifying HIV & AIDS (Prevention and Control) Bill 2017 at the International Centre, Goa organised by the Lawyers Collective and Positive People in anticipation of the latter’s 25th anniversary.
 
 In cases of discrimination in healthcare, a PLHIV can first complain to the establishment’s complaints authority to bring the problem to its notice and get it rectified, he says. If this doesn’t work, a PLHIV can approach an ombudsman appointed by the state government under this act to inquire into complaints of discrimination and provision of healthcare services where he/she is expected to pass orders within 24 hours of the receipt of the complaint in medical emergency cases. A state must appoint at least one ombudsman.
 
 There is also no reason why insurance premium should be double for PLHIV, Grover says, pointing out that the denial or unfair treatment in providing insurance also amounts to discrimination, provided this is supported by actuarial studies.
 
 The act also requires that no person be compelled to disclose his HIV status except with his informed consent and if required by a court order where establishments maintaining records of HIV positive persons must adopt data protection measures. 
 
 Grover who fought for the rights of Dominic D’Souza, one of India’s first HIV activists and the first case that went to court more than two-and-a-half decades ago, says this new act originated in D’Souza’s fight. Positive People set up by D’Souza in Goa to work for people infected with HIV completes 25 years this month.
 
