MUMBAI: The   is gearing up for a fight. Member associations of the board ­ who have made a resolve to keep their internal differences aside for now ­ are planning a meeting to figure out how India can resist pressure from the international cricket fraternity that has proposed a flurry of “undesirable“ policy changes.

 While it is not clear if this can be officially addressed as a meeting of the general body , sources did confirm that the stage is being set for a get-together. “Expect it to happen as soon as possible,“ two state association members ­ both eligible under the   ­ told TOI on Tuesday .
 
 The meeting has been planned to sit down and discuss how India can stop the   ( ) ­ read: chairman   ­ from going ahead and implementing the policy changes in finance and governance of the parent body that the BCCI has rejected.
 
 The members have an argument to make. Their logic says, “Cricket infrastructure that state associations have invested in over decades is not a result of government grants. The government has not given BCCI a single penny . On the other hand, BCCI has made contributions to the exchequer.If BCCI loses ground at the ICC, it means the state associations stand to lose out as a result.“
 
 These associations are armed with an agreement that BCCI has signed with the ICC on their behalf ­ the Members Participation Agreement (MPA). Among other things, the MPA details India's bilateral rights vis-àvis the international cricket calendar, which gives BCCI the authority to call the ICC back to the table for a renegotiation.
 
  (COA) appointed by the Supreme Court knows that a meeting has been called for. What they don't know yet is what the MPA entails. Sources say the   is ready to have a look at the document but is not yet reacting to the idea of associations meeting.
 
 “The money at stake is a lot of money . Money that is India's by right and there are people who've made an effort for India to earn that money . Leadership change doesn't mean losing out on it,“ an official tracking developments said.
 
 
