PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Aiming to upgrade public transport as part of the Smart City mission, the citizens of Pimpri Chinchwad have recently voted for ‘Improved   Management’, over Smart Governance and Pollution Monitoring. 

 Two years ago, while submitting their suggestions and participating in online polling for the Smart City mission, Pune citizens had stated that their biggest concern was (traffic) mobility and water.
 
 For long, traffic and transportation experts have been stressing on an efficient public transport for the two cities as a must for the Smart City mission. The   says it is committed to improving public transport. 
 
 While the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) allocated Rs400 crore in its annual budget to procure 1,550 new buses and construct new bus terminals, it remains to be seen whether Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) would similarly apportion funds for Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Ltd (PMPML). 
 
 With 47,335 votes,   has received maximum votes among five pan-city solutions put forward under the mission. Other options were Smart Governance, Smart Parking, Public Wi-Fi hotspots and Pollution Monitoring. While Smart governance garnered 33881 votes to stand at the second place, pollution monitoring received 32,120 votes.
 
 PCMC officials said the civic body will implement an intelligent transport system for PMPML. The system will provide mobile alerts to citizens about the location of buses, besides installing a modern signalling system. PCMC has already installed over 200 steel bus shelters. The municipal corporation has decided to ply air-conditioned buses on the two operational BRTS lanes. 
 
 During the campaign for the civic elections, chief minister Devendra Fadnavis had said the two cities should focus on strengthening the public transport and that there would be an integration of metro and bus services with a single ticket.
 
 BJP’s elected office bearers, including city unit president Laxman Jagtap, mayor Nitin Kalje, and standing committee chairperson Seema Savale, have said that the party is committed to improving public transport. “We have gone through the details and we will work closely with PCMC and PMPML officials in this regard,” said BJP general secretary Sarang Kamtekar.
 
 According to convener of the PMP Pravasi Manch Jugal Rathi, PMPML should implement an action plan by which daily bus commuters would increase from the present 10 lakh to 18 lakh. The forum has put forward several suggestions, including reduction of bus travel pass charges by 30% to 40%, plying at least 300 mini buses, presence of 85% bus fleet on roads, and improving frequency of buses during peak hours. The PCMC and PMC should provide funds to PMPML. The transport utility should also get funds from the central and state governments, Rathi stated.
 
