MYSURU:   leader   on Saturday lodged a complaint with the   against   leaders accusing them of violating the model code of conduct. She urged the Commission to deploy central forces to prevent election violations. 

  Shobha along with former housing minister V Somanna, MCC corporator HS Nandeesh Preetham and other party leaders visited the taluk office in Nanjangud town and registered a complaint against   and Congress leaders. 
 
 In her complaint to deputy commissioner D Randeep and returning officer G Jagadeesha, BJP state general secretary Shobha alleged that Congress leaders are distributing money and liquor to voters in farms and quarries in Nanjangud.
 
 Congress leaders were found allegedly distributing liquor bottles to Kumbarahalli villagers in the taluk on Friday. In another complaint, Shobha has accused election officials of being agents of Congress. Officials are seizing BJP campaign materials at checkposts and preventing partyworkers from campaigning for the candidate in the constituency, she added.
 
 Meanwhile, district BJP secretary Umesh Kumar, too, lodged a complaint with DC Randeep against CM Siddaramaiah accusing him of violating the code of conduct. Umesh in the complaint said that on March 31 at Kavalandhe village, CM Siddaramaiah announced that the government will increase the quantity of rice from 4 kg to 5 kg for BJP card holders, provide eggs to anganwadi children twice a week, milk to schoolchildren from the present three days in a week to five days; and all these programmes, the CM said, will be implemented immediately. As this announcement violates the code of conduct, the EC should take action, he urged.
 
 At Hullahalli and Hura villages, officials seized sashes, caps, pamphlets and other election materials with BJP symbols. 
 
 V Somanna alleged that while his car was stopped at the checkpost for checking, former minister CM Ibrahim's car was allowed to enter the constituency without any checks. "The government is misusing official machinery in the election," he said.
 
 
