LUCKNOW: Determined to maintain BJP’s winning spree in the 2019 parliamentary elections, Prime Minister   is meticulously planning to extend all benefits of Central schemes to the state. For this, a series of high-powered delegations are scheduled to visit Lucknow for the supervision of governance and implementation of the Central schemes.

 The first among them is a high-level project management group that will land in Lucknow on Friday to interact with chief secretary Rahul Bhatnagar to take a feedback on the implementation of the schemes and resolve any contentious issues between the   and the state.
 
 After this, on May 11, Niti Ayog’s top bosses, including its vice-chairman, will reach the state capital to and have meetings with the chief minister and the chief secretary along with the principal secretaries of the key department. While the effort here is to help UP utilise Centre’s schemes to the fullest, it’s also an effort by the Centre to keep governance in the state under its close observation, says a political observer. 
 
 Only two days back at a meeting of UP ministers at the CM residence, BJP national president Amit Shah had cautioned them to perform or perish. Shah had also told them to strictly stay away from corrupt and and tainted elements. He said that both ministers and the officers were under the scanner and warned against any laxity.
 
 “UP is most crucial for BJP in 2019 elections, so the PM does not want to take any chance and is sending delegations and monitoring UP government’s functioning,” shares a senior officer in the CM secretariat.
 
 The Union urban development minister   is also arriving in Lucknow on Friday along with his officials, and apart from his interactions with the state government, he would also meet the chief minister.
 
 During his visit on May 11, Niti Aayog vice-chairman Arvind Panagariya will short-list the challenging areas and the factors which have left this most populous state far behind in the development as compared to even adjoining Bihar. This will be the first visit of the Aayog outside Delhi.
 
 The Yogi government has already kicked off a series of new measures and programmes, including loan-waiver to farmers, announcing cheap meals worth Rs 5 a thali to the poor , e-tendering to stem corruption in the government works , new policy for mining and a promise of uninterrupted power supply in just one month. Yogi has also shown that despite BJP’s historic victory, there is no place for complacency.
 
 
