PUNE: An engineer’s pot-of-gold dream sputtered much before he could fly abroad to pursue a well-paying career after two con men duped him of over Rs1.8 lakh on the pretext of providing an appointment letter and a fake US visa.

 The   police on Friday booked the con men under the Indian Penal Code and Information Technology Act. 
 
 The 40-year-old mechanical engineer from Kondhwa works with a private firm based in Satara. He is married and has a teenaged daughter. 
 
 On January 21, the man received an employment form from a medical firm allegedly based in New Jersey, United States. He filled the contents without verifying the authenticity of the sender. Four days later, he received an appointment letter promising him USD8,405 as salary.
 
 An officer from the Kondhwa police station said, “The engineer spoke to a con man impersonating as an official of the firm over the phone and clarified his doubts before deciding whether he should accept the job offer. Another con man, impersonating as the HR director, offered him the post of supply manager. On receiving the consent from the engineer, the con man asked him to join duty on February 27 and send him forms to obtain a US visa. He signed the forms, scanned the documents and emailed it to the fraudsters as he did not doubt the veracity of his interactions.”
 
 According to the police, the con man called the engineer again and lured him into depositing USD350 with a Kolkatta bank on the pretext of sending him the visa. On January 1, the man transferred Rs24,100 to the fraudster’s account.
 
 “The next day, he received an e-mail saying that they had applied for a visa in his name and sent him a receipt, purportedly issued by the US Embassy in New Delhi. On February 2, the con man asked the complainant to deposit USD2,590 as ‘employment authorization fees’. Accordingly, he transferred Rs1.74 lakh in the fraudster’s account the next day,” the officer added.
 
 Eventually, the engineer realized that he had been tricked after he received a call from the con men asking him to deposit Rs7 lakh in their account. “When the man checked the US embassy website, he found that no visa was issued in his name,” the police officer said.
 
 Senior inspector   from Kondhwa police station stated, “We are investigating the case to ascertain the identity of the fraudsters.”
 
 
