PATIALA: Ten Punjabi men have escaped the death sentence in the   after the father of the Pakistani man they had accidentally killed submitted a letter of pardon in court. The letter was given after the NGO Sarbat Da Bhalla Charitable Trust, run by NRI businessman S P S Oberoi, paid blood money of Rs 60 lakh in Pakistani currency to have the men released.

 The youths, who escaped the gallows, include Satminder Singh of Barnala, Chander Shekhar of Nawasher, Chamkaur Singh of Maler kotla, Kulwinder Singh, Balwinder Kumar and Dharamvir Singh of Ludhiana, Harjinder Singh of Mohali, Tarsem Singh of Amritsar, Gurpreet Singh of Patiala and Jagjit Singh of Gurdaspur.
 
 The men were accused of killing Pakistani national   in July 2015 du ring a fight over bootlegging.
 
 Initially,11men were arrested, but later only 10 were found guilty . The NGO traced Faran's family members in Peshawar and persuaded them to accept the blood money under Islamic law.
 
 The Al-Ain court had on October 26 last year convicted the men of murder. On December 28 2016, Oberio's NGO moved an appeal to spare the men by offering blood money.
 
 However, the men may not walk free immediately as the court is likely to award them jail terms for the crime. After they complete the jail sentence, the men will be deported to India and will not be allowed to enter UAE or any other Middle-East country again.The next date of hearing is April 12. In a live message shared with TOI from Dubai, the victim's father Mohammad Izaz said that humanity was above all else.
 
 “I have gone through the pain of losing my son and I don't want parents of these ten youths to go through the same,“ he said. “My son can never return, but I can pardon the lives of the 10 men which I have done.“
 
 Speaking to the TOI from Dubai, Oberoi said Izaz appeared before the court and produced the original documents pardoning the men.“They had been offered 2 lakh dirhams (Rs 60 lakh in Pakistani currency), which the father accepted after initial reluctance,“ he said.Members of the trust visited the victim's family four times over the past two months and got the pardon.
 
 Some of the parents of the 10 men told TOI that it was a miracle that their sons had been spared and that they were looking forward to meeting them again.
 
