BENGALURU: Latha (name changed) had filed a complaint with   police against a man who stalked and sexually assaulted her during her college days. A few years later, the stalker walked free after the court found no evidence against him. The reason: Latha got married soon after the incident and her husband barred her from deposing before police as well as in court later, saying it would harm the family's reputation.

 There are thousands like Latha who are forced by their own families to drop cases against those who stalk, harass and violate them. Police say non-cooperation by survivors often hampers probe and detection in  .
 
 Bengaluru witnessed a steep rise in sexual attacks on women in the past three years but there's a dip in the number of cases cracked.
 
 A total of 690 cases were booked in the city under section IPC 354 (outraging modesty of women) in 2014 and 628 of them were detected. In 2015, 714 cases were booked but the number of cases detected stood at 598. In 2016, 756 cases were registered but only 511 cracked. Consequently, the number of undetected cases too have gone up: From 62 in 2014 to 116 in 2015 to 245 in 2016.
 
 Police commissioner   attributed the low rate of detection to lack of technical evidence and noncooperation by survivors during investigation. “But we can't blame the survivors as they have genuine reasons. We must do our best to collect evidence, particularly scientific proof which will make the case stronger,“ he said.
 
 A few years ago, a young woman returning home with a friend was gangraped in a cemetery in east Bengaluru.Though police managed to arrest all the accused, the survivor and her family declined to even file a formal complaint, resulting in the accused walking free.
 
 Police said one of the crucial aspects in crime against women is survivors deposing before a magistrate under Section 164 CrPC but most of them don't turn up. This evidence is collected in the absence of police and failure to get this evidence recorded hampers their probe. Sood claimed police awareness has contributed to the increase in the number of cases getting reported. “We have been campaigning and encouraging women to come forward and file complaints,“ he said. The recent Kammanahalli molestation case is the best example of police investigation as they have put together incontrovertible technical evidence, including   and mobile phone locations, he said.
 
