VADODARA: Fearing that it would lose its land assets, M S University ( ) that is already facing space crunch for its expansion projects, appointed a committee to probe the matter. The committee in its first meeting has decided to approach the state government,   (VMC) and   (VUDA) to ensure it is compensated for the land and gets aid to make payments for possession of land earmarked for it.

 In 2012, MSU had to part with its 3.5 lakh square metre prime land at Sama and   campus for Gujarat government's Swami Vivekananda Samras Hostel project. The committee headed by MSU syndicate member Mukund Shah on Monday decided to approach the state government and seek land in lieu of the plot it gave for the hostels.
 
 The university also stands to lose another parcel of 14.64 hectares land at Nagarwada behind the posh VIP Road. Since early 1980s, VUDA had earmarked this land for MSU. But even after over three decades, the MSU has not acquired the land. After a couple of owners moved the  , it had last year given December 2016 as deadline to the university to acquire the land or surrender it. VUDA too has sent a letter to the MSU asking it to clarify its position within a fortnight or else the land will be demarked.
 
 The market value of this land is estimated to be Rs 140 crore. If the university loses this parcel of land at Nagarwada, it is feared that another parcel of 20 hectares land which has been earmarked by VUDA on the prime Rajmahal Road will also meet the same fate. Shah said that the university will be writing to VUDA to extend the reservation on the land for a decade. “We will also seek financial aid from the state government to pay VUDA for the land,” said Shah. 
 
 The university will also write to the VMC that has approached the university seeking three pieces of land. The plots include one adjoining the old Faculty of Law building, another adjoining the Faculty of Commerce building near Kalaghoda and Officer's Mess located adjacent to University Press building opposite the main gate of Laxmi Vilas Palace for the civic body's road widening projects. It was only after a recent assets survey that the university realised that it has ownership of this land. Near Kalaghoda, the corporation has sought 5.26 sq m land while the size of land that the civic body wants near the old Faculty of Law building is yet to be measured. Shah said that the university will be asking the VMC for compensation in form of alternate land or financially.
 
