BENGALURU: Discontentment seems to be widespread in the   (CISF), with several personnel impleading themselves in cases seeking payment of house rent allowance (HRA) and transport allowance (TA), among others, before the high courts in Delhi, Kolkata, Chennai and Hyderabad. 

  On Monday, TOI reported that over 200 CISF personnel deployed at the   in Bengaluru are seeking legal aid over working conditions. 
 
 Responding to queries about the cases across the country, Manjit Singh, spokesperson, CISF, told TOI from New Delhi: "The CISF does not fix allowances. It's done by the pay commission and the   is in the process of fixing allowances. We have requested that 100% HRA be provided to all cadres." 
 
 According to petitions in various courts, the demand is not to increase existing allowances. The petition in the  , last heard on February 8, 2017, also has similar pleas to those in Bengaluru, where petitioners have sought allowances on a par with their colleagues.
 
  The aggrieved parties also argued that despite a   ruling that HRA be provided to petitioners, other commands/centres are not following it. "It has only been implemented at the Kolkata airport, but the concerns are the same," one CISF personell aid. 
 
  A November 2016 order of the CISF asked officials to implement the Calcutta court ruling following a petition by constable Bijender Kumar and others. 
 
  Similarly, the Hyderabad high court, still hearing some concerns of CISF personnel, has given an interim direction that petitioners must get transport and dearness allowance. The prayers of petitioners in Bengaluru and Chennai - where the last hearing was on February 2017 - are seeking similar intervention. 
 
  Asked why some personnel are provided housing and others aren't and some aren't paid HRA, Manjit Singh said: "In case of allowances and other facilities, there are prescribed rules keeping in mind operational requirements. If the ratio of married accommodation and bachelors staying in barracks or hostels is 55:45, it is based on rules framed and they will be implemented at all places." Responding to the TOI report on April 3, CISF said: "CISF provides accommodation and transportation as per the existing government rules. As far as food is concerned, the quality and hygiene are ascertained by the committee of dining members and senior officers. There has been no complaint about poor quality. Also, there has been no complaint of allegation of harassment by senior officers at KIA." 
 
