LUCKNOW: There is still a long wait for Lucknow’s modern abattoir to get functional, as state government has refused to share cost of building   ( ). The government said it will not release any money for building new slaughter houses in the state, while   is in a dilemma over where to arrange funds from for the facility in the city. 

 Despite sections 421 to 432 of the UP Municipal Corporation Act, 1959 mandating local bodies to provide slaughter houses, the state capital doesn’t have a single slaughter house in operation. LMC had proposed building a modern abattoir in Bindauva in Mohanlalganj, in 2010. 
 
 About 1,000 cattle and 1,200 small animals need to be slaughtered daily to cater to the city’s growing demand for meat, hence the modern abattoir was planned with a much higher capacity. Though the project faced many delays and hindrances, it finally got approval from the state-level committee in December 2016. 
 
 LMC had already floated the tender and roped in a company to build the Rs 64-crore modern slaughter house on Rae Bareli Road. LMC was supposed to complete this project in a public-private partnership where the private company would invest Rs 52 crore and Rs 12 crore had to be spent by the LMC. 
 
 The company had already begun groundwork on the site, constructing boundary walls, installing tube-wells, digging earth, etc earlier this year when the state government had announced that any local body seeking to build a modern slaughter house had to arrange for funds from a private agency or through its own resources and send a proposal after the divisional commissioner’s approval. 
 
 Recently, urban development minister   declared the UP government will not provide funds for new abattoirs and that the municipal bodies have to arrange funds on their own. He maintained that slaughter houses not conforming to norms will be shut down soon.
 
 This has come as a setback to LMC, which was supposed to borrow part of the amount from the department. A senior official of the corporation said, “We don’t have sufficient funds to put into big projects like these. Whatever we earn in a year is barely able to meet our own maintenance cost. As such, the project seems dumped.” Right now, the proposal is lying with the   for approval. 
 
 
