NEW DELHI: India’s envoy to Pakistan Gautam Bambawale met the powerful CM of the country’s   province and Pakistan PM Nawaz   ’s brother   in Lahore on Saturday, a day after India facilitated the return of a Pakistani boy who had strayed across the border, sparking speculation that some kind of a thaw may be in the air between the two countries. The meeting comes days after Pakistan detained Lashkar chief   citing “national interest”.

 However, on Sunday, Nawaz issued a tough statement against India on Kashmir solidarity day, criticising India for “aggression and atrocities on Kashmiri people”. He was quoted as saying the region could not progress until the Kashmir dispute was resolved. It may be too soon for a
 
 thaw. India believes the ball is in Pakistan’s court, and wants to see demonstrable action on the ground against its “good” terrorists and the terrorist infrastruture. Despite Saeed’s arrest, the action does not appear to be on the cards yet, according to Indian sources.
 
 The greater danger is that Pakistan is no longer in complete control of its jihadis, which adds to India’s security threats. A big terror attack from Pakistan would put the Modi government in the position of having to respond militarily. So, although India has been appreciative of Pakistan’s decision to send back Indian soldier Chandu Babulal Chavan, who had strayed across the LoC in September last year, it is unlikely to lead to an official outreach just yet, despite widespread speculation that India could do so after the UP elections.
 
 According to reports, Bambawale met Shahbaz with the envoys of the US, the UK, Australia, and the EU to talk about regional security and energy. Radio Pakistan reported, “Shahbaz Sharif urged Pakistan and India to work together for peace in the region.” Shahbaz used the meeting to assure the envoys that the country was safe to invest in. It’s a message that has found many takers in China, which has promised to invest over $50 billion in the CPEC and Gwadar port, besides buying a number of Pakistani companies as well.
 
