GURUGRAM: On September 9, when police were taking him back to jail from court,   spoke to news reporters present there. He said he had killed   Thakur, the seven-year-old Class 2 student of   International School whose throat was slit in the school’s washroom the previous morning, a crime that horrified the country.

 Kumar (42), conductor in one of the school buses, struck a completely different note on Monday when he was produced in court for a custody hearing. He said he was innocent and had been tortured in police custody and forced to confess.
 
 Kumar has been charged with murder in the police FIR but will now be investigated by the CBI after the Haryana government transferred the case to the central agency, acceding to the demands of Pradhyumn’s parents. The two others arrested in the case, Ryan officials Francis Thomas and Jayesh Thomas, applied for bail but it was rejected by the court. All three were sent to judicial custody till September 29.
 
 The Sohna court pulled up police for laxity during the day’s proceedings when it discovered that the accused had been produced without the case file being submitted. This led to an adjournment. Even public prosecutors were briefed at the last moment. The proceedings, which started at 10.45am, eventually ended at 5pm after three adjournments.
 
 The court doors were guarded by commandos of Haryana police and constables formed a line to channel the entry of the accused and lawyers. The press was asked to stay out. Francis (Ryan’s North India head) and Jayesh (HR head) applied for bail through advocate DC Gupta in the court of additional sessions judge Rajni Yadav. The bail application was opposed by public prosecutors Anurag Hooda and Arvind Sharma on the ground that the case was being handed over to the CBI and that releasing the school officials would not be appropriate as they could tamper with evidence and influence witnesses.
 
 Gupta had argued his clients were not responsible for the "unfortunate incident" and that they were charged under Section 75 of Juvenile Justice Act, which is bailable.
 
 Francis’ wife Jansy Thomas sat in a corner in the sitting area, her eyes red from crying. Sitting outside court number 6, where the proceedings were on, she opened a yellow bible and read aloud from Psalm 34, "This poor man called, and the Lord heard him; he saved him out of all his troubles," she mumbled between sobs.
 
 A close relative of the family, who had been apprehensive of talking to the media all day, finally said that the two had been announced guilty after a media trial. "We have been crucified in this whole affair. We are just absorbing what happened today in the court, and planning what to do next," he said, not wishing to be identified.
 
