LUCKNOW: State BJP president Keshav Prasad Maurya faced the wrath of party workers over ticket distribution on Wednesday when a few of them descended at the party headquarters to protest against “outsiders” and “undeserving” candidates.

 The ruckus began in the morning when workers from Isauli constituency of Sultanpur started a demonstration outside the office. Soon, party cadres from other constituencies also reached the office. Maurya was inside the office even as protestors continued to raise slogans against “wrong selection” of candidates.
 
 Accusing Maurya of nepotism, workers claimed that his close relative Pankaj Maurya is the manager of two schools run by the BJP candidate from Isauli,   Pandey Bajrangi.
 
 Ram Pratap Shukla, a claimant for the seat, said Bajrangi runs two schools - Ganpat Sahai and Radha Rani Inter College - where Pankaj Maurya is the manager. Shukla’s supporters alleged that Pandey got the party ticket because the latter is related to Maurya.
 
 Later, Maurya told reporters that only those outsiders have been given the tickets, who, as per a survey, have chances to win the election. He said many sitting MLAs from other parties who joined BJP have also been denied ticket because their chances of winning the election this time are bleak.
 
 Several aspirants from Tindwari constituency in Banda district, along with their supporters, also staged a protest against the candidature of Brijesh Prajapati, who they alleged, was an “outsider” and had left BSP to join BJP.
 
 Similarly, a few contenders for Harchandrapur constituency in Rae Bareli, along with their supporters, staged a protest against party candidate Kanchan Lodhi, who they claimed was an ‘outsider.’
 
 A few workers from Bhognipur constituency in Kanpur Dehat also protested against the candidate announced by the party.
 
 As the protests continued, Maurya asked a few of them to come to his office. What transpired between him and the demonstrators, however, could not be ascertained.
 
 
