Half of India’s 235 operating Central Public Sector Enterprises (CPSEs) are under scrutiny for a possible disinvestment.  , the government think tank that was assigned to analyse and recommend stake sales, has been examining 115 CPSEs. Of these, it has already recommended the strategic disinvestment of 38 companies — plus four units of two CPSEs — the most prominent being India’s national carrier,  .
 
  While talking to 
 , 
 CEO 
 spells out the basic philosophy of recommending disinvestment in Air India,   and other biggies: “Our view is largely based on the fact that other than in strategic areas, say  , there is no rationale for the government to be in the business of being in business”. Edited excerpts from the interview:
  
  
 
  NITI Aayog was first asked by the government to examine the cases of 74 sick, loss-making and non-performing CPSEs. After a detailed analysis, we recommended closure of 26 such CPSEs. Of those, 16 companies have either received cabinet approval (for closure) or are in the process of liquidation. So, the government has moved very fast on the recommendation of NITI so far as sick, lossmaking, non-performing CPSEs are concerned.
  
  NITI Aayog was also asked (by the government) to function like a disinvestment commission. So far, it has submitted four tranches of recommendations on strategic disinvestments. In its first tranche, it recommended 14 CPSEs for strategic disinvestment. In the second tranche, it recommended eight CPSEs plus four units of two CPSEs; in the third tranche, we recommended 10 CPSEs; and in the fourth tranche, the names of six CPSEs, namely Air India and its five subsidiaries, were listed for disinvestment. Over all, 38 CPSEs plus four units of two CPSEs have been recommended for strategic disinvestment. The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (a PM-chaired committee currently with 11 cabinet ministers as members and three as special invitees) has already given approval to 23 of those companies that we had recommended for disinvestment.
  
  
 
  NITI Aayog has moved in a very expeditious manner to make strategic disinvestment. Our view is largely based on the fact that other than in strategic areas, say defence, there is no rationale for the government to be in the business of being in business. The government should spend money on health, education, nutrition and improvement of social indicators. India has a long way to go in human indices; so we should have adequate resources in those areas. And the government should put its full might behind sectors that will improve our human development index and quality of life. So businesses are best left to the business people. The government should be there only in areas of strategic interest, where its presence is absolutely necessary. The others should be left to the private sector.
  
  
 
  If the government continues to run Air India, a vast amount of resources will be required immediately. The airline can’t go on like this. We calculated that Air India would need an investment of about Rs. 30,000 crore. After very detailed examination, it was felt that, given a choice between the government’s investment on infrastructure vis-a-vis social sectors and given that Air India has just 14% of market share, it’s best that the private sector runs and manages Air India in a far more efficient and cost-effective manner.
  
  I must add that Air India has seen some turnaround in the recent past; it’s making an operating profit. But the issue is, it can’t function efficiently for long without further investments from the government. Given that huge investments are required for Air India, the case merited strategic disinvestment. I think the damage was done when Air India and Indian Airlines were merged (in 2007). The systems were not properly laid out; there were a number of staff issues; and when all those continued for years, it led to the airline’s declining performance. So, the recent turnaround is not adequate enough for Air India to continue in the present form. The private sector can very well manage Air India as it had happened with many other airlines.
  
  
 
  The valuation is an issue on which the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management has to take a call. Once we made our recommendation, it’s the job of that department to carry it forward.
  
  
 
  The stock market lacks adequate knowledge on the subject. Air India is sitting on a number of very good routes. It does not have excessive staff. It has very good planes. It has good landing rights, and many other assets. So from any investor’s viewpoint, Air India is a very good asset.
  
  
 
  Actually the staff will be much better off, at least in the long run.
  
  
 
  It’s not a question of loss or profit. The question is whether the presence of the government is absolutely necessary in a particular sector or not. The government should get out of profit-making companies at the right time so that it gets a good value.
  
  
 
  This government will take a lot more action on disinvestment than ever before. NITI Aayog is making an analysis of strategic disinvestment of 115 CPSEs, which is half of the 235 operating CPSEs in the country. In the days to come, we will be making many more recommendations for strategic disinvestment. 
