HYDERABAD: A 21-year-old engineering graduate from Kondapur, who went to meet her friend at   campus at Kandi on Saturday, went through anxious moments when an auto driver took her in a wrong direction.

 The girl managed to get out of the auto at Hatnur in Sangareddy district, 25 kilometres away from her actual destination, IIT-H. Police managed to identify the offender with the help of   footage and took him into custody from Sangareddy on Sunday. Around 2 pm, Sai Swaroopa, an engineering graduate from Kondapur, got into a bus and went to Kandi in Sangareddy to meet her friend,  , a student of IIT, Hyderabad. A Vizag native, Swaroopa graduated from a city college and was preparing for GMAT.
 
 Swaroopa disembarked from the bus at Kandi and boarded an auto to go to the IIT-H campus, about two kilometres away. The auto driver drove beyond the IIT campus and turned into Daulatabad road. He continued to drive further and, after 20km, stopped at a petrol bunk in Malkapur. “The driver was in an inebriated condition. At the petrol bunk, He picked up an argument with a biker. The staff of the petrol bunk advised Swaroopa to get down from the vehicle, but she continued her journey without realising she was going away from her destination,“ Jinnaram circle inspector (CI) S Venkat told TOI.
 
 Vijaya called Swaroopa to check why it was taking her so long. Swaroopa then sent her location details to Vijaya through WhatsApp. Vijaya realised what was happening and immediately called her. “Swaroopa gave the phone to the auto driver and, after talking to her friend, the auto driver kept the phone with him. Vijaya and her friends then alerted police. At Hatnur, when the auto driver slowed down to talk to the panicked victim, she got down from the vehicle and ran. The auto driver also fled from the spot,“ the CI said.
 
 Around 4 pm, the victim approached police, who had launched a search for her. With the help of CCTV visuals, police identified the accused. Police said the auto driver had the victim's phone and hand bag, containing '1,000, aadhaar card, PAN card and a debit card.
 
 A case was registered against the auto driver under sec 384 (extortion) of IPC. He was picked up on Sunday evening from Sangareddy . Police said he had committed petty thefts in the past.
 
