NEW DELHI: Last year's losing finalists   enter the tenth season of the   still chasing the elusive title. They made headlines in February at the IPL player auction when they paid Rs 12 crore for England pace bowler Mills, from a base price of 50 lakhs, to set a record for the most expensive specialist bowler in the IPL, and have added a few players keeping in mind their domestic makeup. 

 Here's a look at the new faces in the RCB squad, and what they bring to the table in  . 
 
 
 
 
 What prompted a bidding war between RCB, Mumbai Indians, Delhi Daredevils and two-time winners Kolkata Knight Riders over a fast bowler with just four Twenty20 internationals to his credit? 
 
 For starters, the fact that he is the second fastest T20 bowler at 152.08kph - behind New Zealand's Adam Milne at 152.56kph and ahead of Wahab Riaz, Ben Stokes and Nathan Coulter-Nile - and that he has success in T20 leagues across the globe. The 24-year-old Mills is T20 franchise specialist who plays for Sussex in England and globally for Auckland, Brisbane Heat, Chittagong Vikings and Quetta Gladiators, has impressive numbers in T20 cricket: 67 wickets in 58 games at average of 22.19, strike-rate of 17.7 and economy of 7.49. 
 
 RCB, who on the eve of the auction were left without the Australian left-arm quick Mitchell Starc, clearly wanted a shot of pace and did not hold back in bidding for Mills. For a man who played his first match ten years ago, and who was nearly forced into early retirement after a back injury, Mills is shaping up to be one of the most exciting stories of  . 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 The 27-year-old Rajasthan seam bowler was purchased for Rs 2 crore by RCB from a base price of 10 lakh, adding to the squad's increased pace stocks. The franchise was already on the look-out for pace bowlers having released seven in Varun Aaron, Abu Nechim, David Wiese, Kane Richardson, Vikramjeet Malik,   and Jordan, and with news that Starc had pulled out of the 2017 IPL, RCB's needs were amplified. In Choudhary, they have an in-form option to fall back on. He took 21 wickets in Rajasthan's Ranji Trophy campaign, five in three Syed Mushtaq Ali matches, then 4/26 for India A against Bangladesh, and most recently six in four matches of the Inter State Twenty20 Tournament. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 RCB have put an emphasis on pace and in Australian Stanlake, who comes on board with the reputation of being a seriously quick bowler highly rated in his home country. Tall at nearly 6.7 feet and capable of delivering sharp bouncers - he knocked over Brad Haddin during the Big Bash League - the 22-year-old has been acknowledged back home as one of the most promising quicks to come through the ranks. He was on Queensland's radar since the age of 13, later represented Australia Under-19s during the 2014 Junior World Cup - where he was their most economic bowler. Stanlake can bowl at 150kph, though on the evidence of his T20I debut for Australia against Sri Lanka in February at the MCG, that can work against him when he's off radar: Stanlake conceded 42 runs in three overs, including eight wides, with five fours and a shovel-scooped six. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 The spin-bowing allrounder who was purchased for an incredible 8.5 crore by Daredevils in 2016, initially attracted interest from Gujarat Lions and Rising Pune Supergiant but finally went to RCB for Rs 1 crore from a base price of 30 lakh. RCB were on the look-out for an Indian spinner, and in Negi - who can also hit the ball long and hard - they have pocketed a valuable player in T20s even if his stock has dipped since last year's IPL. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 Dubey, 23, is a legspinner who played for Karnataka in domestic cricket and Belagavi Panthers in the Karnataka Premier League. His first IPL contract came after he took eight wickets in nine KPL matches at an economy rate of 6.89 in 2016; he has yet to play first-class cricket and has featured in just two List A games. 
 
  
  
 
 
