BENGALURU: “I have all the shots in the book,“ said opener  . It wasn't a boast, just a mere statement of fact. The 141 invaluable runs that he scored across two innings in the second Test against   is evidence enough. It was his home ground, but it still required skill against a formidable attack.

 There was a touch of effortless elegance and unbridled confidence in the 24-year-old's strokeplay . His consistency made it a no-contest for the man of the match award.
 
 Since making his international debut in the second Test against Australia in December 2014, the Bengaluru top-order batsman's journey has been a roller-coaster ride.
 
 The impressive run in the 2016 Indian Premier League, a ton on ODI debut, the T20 century and the 199 against England in the Chennai Test of fered a glimpse of a cricketer for all seasons and formats. But then, he has been injury-prone, especially the nagging hamstring.
 
 Be it in domestic cricket, where he plays for  , or the Indian team, Rahul has constantly battled stability .However, as contradicting as it seems, he is the go-to man for a team in crisis. On several occasions, he has stood tall even as wickets have fallen at the other end -as it happened in the first innings against Australia at the M Chinnaswamy Stadium.
 
 Consistency though will be the mantra of the 15-Test old batsman from here on, especially as India look to tame the Aussies in the next two Tests.
 
 Talking about the chinks in Rahul's game, batting great GR Viswanath said: “Since he opens the innings in the longer format, he needs to pace his innings well. Having seen him from his age-group days, I think he plays his shots, like the square drive, too early in the innings. But he has to choose his shots with caution and I'm sure he can do it because he is a good student of the game.“
 
 Citing Rahul's 90 in the first innings, GRV said it was an ideal way of pacing an innings, especially under pressure. “It was one of the best knocks I have enjoyed watching. He is a hardworking youngster and a quick learner as well. It will only be a matter of time before he overcomes his faults.“
 
 Batting coach Sanjay Bangar admitted Rahul has been working on putting a price on his wicket. “It's something that we want him to improve in the games to come because he is a quality player. I think he understands that and probably in the matches to come, he will definitely put a price on his wicket and see less of those unforced errors,“ said Bangar.
 
 Skipper Virat Kohli, who has backed Rahul throughout, believes the opener was in a good space and has shown a lot of character.
 
 “I think the last three innings have been his best three so far. I told him this, `you'll cherish the ones that you don't get hundreds in, but they're so valuable for the team and you'll understand their importance later'. I think he's in a very good zone. He wants to convert his starts into big hundreds, which he's done it in the past. He's shown a lot of character and I'm sure in the coming games he'd like to push that score forward and put the team into a more consolidating position.Hats off to the way he's played.“
 
 
