PATNA: Taking the JD (U) by horns for its criticism that the Niti Aayog had no knowledge about the Rs1.65 lakh crore special package announced by PM Narendra Modi for Bihar, the state   on Friday asked CM   to “abandon the course of confrontation” with the Centre and, instead, dedicate himself to implementing the central government schemes in the state.

 The PM had announced the special package for the state at Ara rally of his party on August 18, 2015 as part of his electioneering for the 2015 assembly elections in the state. 
 
 “We will advise the JD (U) functionaries not to issue meaningless statements on an important matter like the special package announced by the PM for Bihar,” said state BJP spokesman  .
 
 “We ask CM Nitish Kumar to abandon the course of confrontation with the Centre on which he appears to have set himself. Instead, he should dedicate himself to implementing the central schemes for the state and also improve the state’s fund utilization capacity,” he added.
 
 Tiger was accompanied by the party’s two other functionaries, Rakesh Kumar Singh and Pankaj Kumar Singh. What Tiger alluded to was the recent active engagement of Nitish, who is also JD (U) national president, in forging opposition unity opposed to the BJP with eyes on the presidential elections and the 2019 parliamentary polls.
 
 Incidentally, the special package included the core amount of Rs1.25 lakh crore and another chunk of Rs40,000 crore worth of projects that the Union ministry of road transport and highways had already undertaken. The package also included around Rs8,000 crore of the Backward Regions Grant Fund (BRGF) sum payable to the state.
 
 The then PM   had announced Rs12,000 crore payable to Bihar at the rate of Rs1,000 crore per year after Jharkhand had been separated from it in November 2000. 
 
 Interestingly, although one Iqbal Ansari, on April 12 this year, had sought information from Niti Aayog under the RTI Act about the fund allocations under special package and their utilization under various schemes, the country’s premier planning body said it had no information on that.
 
 Tiger said the JD (U) functionary should have approached the PMO for the information, not the Niti Aayog. For a twist, as the state BJP sources said, attempts are being made to get from the PMO the actual status of the funds spent “till now” as part of the PM’s Rs1.65 lakh crore special package for the state. The party wants to put the details in public domain. 
 
 Seemingly, the BJP appears to have been stung by the JD (U)’s attack on Thursday that the Niti Aayog had no information regarding the special package. Curiously, there had been no mention of the BRGF fund in the 2015-16 Union budget. Later, the Niti Aayog had acted as Good Samaritan for the state, as it paid around Rs1,761 crore through its “window of special kitty” when Nitish pressed the matter with Union finance minister Arun Jaitley.
 
