PUNE: In the last 22 years, Pune Municipal Corporation ( ) had conducted   2,302   thrice and set aside Rs 30 crore for the task. However, both are doomed as there is no political will. 

 The civic body has issued trade licences to 1,500 authorized hawkers in Pandit Jawaharlal vegetable market before 1997, but after nearly 20 years, Hadapsar ward office has reported a significant rise in the number of illegal hawkers in the area under its jurisdiction.
 
 Civic officials said, “We have conducted a survey and identified illegal hawkers operating in Hadapsar, Solapur Road, Saswad Road, Sasanenagar Road, Handewadi Road, Sayyednagar, D P Road and Malwadi for over seven, five, three and one years and new ones till December 3.” 
 
 The survey followed the state and Union government hawkers’ rehabilitation scheme of 2009, amended in 2014 as per the SC guidelines. There are many complaints about these hawkers obstructing pedestrian ways and traffic at Gadital Chowk where Hadapsar bus stand, a bus depot and a police station are situated.
 
 The civic body had planned a footpath, but hawkers occupied the area and at night, it became a place to rest. 
 
 Amenity space has been reserved by the PMC on the internal roads, lanes and bylanes for rehabilitating the hawkers. Four places — Handewadi godown, the open space below the flyover at Rajnath Jijau Chowk, outside Janseva Bank and two ottas (platforms) in the vegetable market that are not used by the authorized hawkers have been identified. 
 
 Four more places near Desai Hospital, Kale Colony, D’Mart Road and Gadital were chosen but the PMC turned them down over narrow road, incomplete possession of land and traffic congestion. 
 
 Inspector of PMC’s anti-encroachment squad Rajesh Khude said, “We have categorized hawkers into five groups A plus, A, B, C and D, depending on their business and the places they will operate in. We plan to collect enhanced rent, on a daily or monthly basis. PMC will rehabilitate one person from a family.” He added that action against illegal hawkers where their hand carts and wares are confiscated are taken up but they get back to business after paying the fine.
 
 Mohan Chinchkar, president of Pathari Vyavasaik Panchayat, Hadapsar said, “The state government had approved hawkers’ rehabilitation and PMC had reserved funds of Rs 30 crore. A survey was conducted thrice, but no steps have been taken to rehabilitate us till date. The issue has been discussed with the municipal commissioner and debated in general body and standing committee meetings, but there is no political will.”
 
 Chinchkar said hawkers were accommodated below one of the flyovers three years ago. There was no objection from the traffic police, no complaints of traffic congestion and no inconvenience was caused to pedestrians, but the PMC evicted them. “We want rehabilitation expedited. Political leaders have made good use of hawkers’ associations for political gains, but now they express reservations about legalising our trade,” he said.
 
 The civic body has issued a letter of biometric census, but the issue of giving us trade licences or smart cards have been put on hold. “We have assisted the authorities in conducting a survey, but we don’t favour the idea of categorisation of hawkers. Our demand is that all our members should be rehabilitated together,” Chinchkar added. 
 
 Hawker Rajesh Sakhare has been selling imitation jewellery outside Janseva Bank for four decades, but the civic body had not issued him a licence. “As per the survey, I belong to the A category. The PMC had said there will be no action against us till rehabilitation is finalised, but they continue to confiscate our wares and fine us. We are not a nuisance, we have drawn a line to keep discipline and clean up the premises.”
 
 Another hawker Rajendra Yeote who sells belts said even after depositing fines, their goods were not released. Hawker Pravin Chinchkar said even police have started filing petty criminal cases against them. “They hit us with sticks, seize our goods and force us to deposit fines in courts,” he said. 
 
