NAGPUR: The Central   head office has cleared the Manish Nagar railway overbridge (ROB) and railway underbridge (RUB), which will be built by Mahametro. The proposal was sent about four months ago. 

 The ROB will be connected to the proposed double decker flyover (road +  ) on Wardha Road. Work on the two structures will start soon.
 
 A source in Mahametro said that Railway had cleared the general arrangement design (GAD) of the two structures. “We will now prepare the detailed design, which will tell us how much land, concrete, etc is needed. Once this is ready, we will start construction work,” he added. The source further said that the cost of the construction was Rs 91 crore in addition to land acquisition cost.
 
 The length of the ROB is 635 metres. “The distance between the double decker flyover is 175 metres. The portion above the railway track is 60 metres and the approach on Manish Nagar side is 400 metres,” the source told TOI.
 
 The RUB is 60 metres long and 6.5 metres wide having two lanes. “It will have an elliptical ramp on the Manish Nagar side as there is not enough space. The RUB will be constructed by push back method,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, work on the double decker flyover is going on in full swing. “We will start the flyover when it is complete and not wait for Manish Nagar ROB to be complete,” the source added.
 
 Meanwhile, the   has decided to close the Manish Nagar railway crossing for traffic once the railway overbridge (ROB)is ready. The RUB is about 300-metre south of the existing crossing. 
 
 A Central Railway official told TOI that while he was not aware of the exact proposal, as per policy a railway crossing was closed down once a ROB was ready. "People residing near the   railway crossing had agitated for not closing the crossing even after the ROB was ready. We kept it open for a few days in view of their inconvenience but finally closed it down. Railway crossings reduce the speed of trains and are a security hazard. Hence we always want ROBs to be constructed. In many cases we share 50% cost of the ROBs with local bodies,” he said.
 
