BENGALURU: Ten days after an   constituted by BBMP submitted its report on the wall collapse at Mantri Square in Malleswaram, the mall authorities submitted a site incident report prepared by a private consultant declaring the structure safe. 

 Two persons were injured in a partial wall collapse in the mall on January 16.
 
 The site incident report, a copy of which is available with TOI, points out that the structure has been withstanding live loads for the past seven years, specially during weekends and holidays, affirming that it is safe. 
 
 The report says a steel supporting system should be provided for all the extended slabs on the first, second and third floors, and the terrace in the north-west corner of the mall to ensure such an incident doesn’t recur. 
 
 The report dated February 12, 2017 and prepared by M/s   has come 10 days after the BBMP-constituted expert committee made various recommendations, including strengthening of beams and increasing structural stability among other things. The committee members were also against reopening of the mall anytime soon.
 
 Innotech has also recommended the removal of the screed (cement layer) in the cantilever slab area, including the cooling tower pipes, to reduce the load on the cantilever section. 
 
 “All structural steel elements at terrace level shall be painted with anti-corrosive paint. The concrete strength of the existing structure has been thoroughly checked by conducting core tests and is found to be in order and acceptable as per standard building code,” the report reads. 
 
 The five-floor mall is spread over an area of 1.7 million sqft and has over 250 retail outlets. Opened in March 2010, it is the go-to destination for shoppers from north and west Bengaluru. A spokesperson from   said they will comment on the renovation later as the persons concerned are unavailable at the moment. 
 
 Will reopen only after compliance: BBMP 
 
 BBMP commissioner N Manjunath Prasad said they are not revoking the mall’s occupancy certificate, which had been withdrawn after the collapse. He said it will be issued only after the mall authorities comply with the recommendations made by the expert committee on strengthening the multi-storey structure. Sources in the BBMP said the repair work suggested by the committee will take at least a fortnight. 
 
