MUMBAI: A total of 161 flight arrivals and departures were cancelled at Mumbai airport on Wednesday, when inclement weather affected flight operations for the second day in a row. Another six planes were forced to do go-arounds, one to divert and several were delayed by up to 2 hours.

 It was at 9.38 pm, almost 24 hours after it overshot the main runway on Tuesday and got stuck in mud, that the stranded SpiceJet Boeing 737-900 aircraft could be removed. The plane had landed around 10pm on Tuesday in heavy rain and strong winds. Hours before the aircraft was removed, Mumbai’s air traffic control (ATC) had announced the main runway’s closure till 6am on Thursday. At the time of going to press, the runway closure notice was not yet cancelled. 
 
 ATC sources said the main runway may remain shut for some time because of the damage to areas immediately beyond the runway end where the aircraft’s wheels sunk. Though an ATC official said the runway cannot be used till its end safety area is graded back and leveled to comply with safety requirements, an airport official said the main runway was to be opened in a few hours.
 
 The SpiceJet overrun has exposed how ill-prepared airlines and airports are to handle such emergencies. The incident had a cascading effect across the country as hundreds of passengers were left stranded not only in Mumbai, but also in Ahmedabad, Vadodara and Hyderabad. A common grouse among passengers was lack of information on flight status. Airline call centres were difficult to get through. Airlines and passengers took to social media to share information. Passengers whose flights managed to land in Mumbai were left waiting for their luggage for hours.
 
 Till 5pm on Wednesday, JetAirways had taken the worst beating, with 63 flight cancellations, followed by IndiGo (8), SpiceJet (3), Air India (2) and GoAir (1). Trouble began in the early hours of Wednesday, with strong, gusting tailwinds whipping the operational, shorter secondary runway. Even as narrow-body aircraft landed onto the wet runway, the big birds were diverted to the safer runways of Hyderabad and Bengaluru. The worst-hit were passengers onboard wide-bodied aircraft (of both Indian and foreign airlines) scheduled for early Wednesday arrivals to Mumbai after long-haul flights from Europe and the US.
 
 Among the hundreds of Mumbai-bound passengers stranded across airports were a team of six doctors from Mumbai who were returning to the city after attending a conference in Vancouver. “We had dinner at 10.30pm on Tuesday night. After that, till now (6pm, Wednesday) we have had no meals, not even a single cup of tea,” said Dr Hasmukh Ravat, a senior intervention cardiologist who works at Fortis Hospital. “We understand it’s (almost like) a natural calamity and there are major disruptions. But we were appalled by the callous attitude of our airline’s staff.” He and his team had left for Calgary airport on Monday morning. Their Jet Airways flight was overhead Mumbai around Tuesday midnight when it was diverted to Hyderabad. Dr Sangeeta Ravat, HOD, neurology, KEM, said, “After it landed in Hyderabad around 1am, we had to sit inside the aircraft till 6.30am. Worse, after we disembarked, there was no update on flight status for hours on end.”
 
 With no news from the airline, some in the group booked a TruJet Hyderabad-Pune flight for Rs 84,000 per ticket. “Even as we were checking in, we learnt that the Jet flight was to depart for Mumbai. So we cancelled the new ticket, collected our bags and again checked them in onto Jet,” said another doctor in the team. They finally landed in Mumbai around 4.30pm, but their ordeal was far from over as there was no news of their luggage. They were then stranded at Mumbai airport for over two hours.
 
 Jet Airways said its “teams are working round-the-clock to ensure that inconvenience to guests is minimised and operations are normalised at the earliest”.
 
