MANGALURU: The 23rd edition of Alva’s Virasat, a national-level   will get under way at the Jain Kashi of the South – Moodbidri from January 13. Eminent artists from across India will perform at the specially designed Smt Vanajakshi K Sripathi Bhat Vedike at Puthige. 

 Students of Alva’s group of educational institutions too will showcase their cultural diversity in this three-day fete that Alva’s Education Foundation, Moodbidri is organizing. 
 
 Dr M Mohan Alva, chairman of the foundation said D Veerendra Heggade, dharmadhikari, Sri Kshetra Dharmasthala will inaugurate the event, highlight of which will be conferring of Alva’s Virasat award on V P Dhananjayan, renowned Bharatanatyam dancer. Folk artistes from across the country will present their wares for a minute each even as the guests felicitate Dhananjayan and present him with a purse of Rs 1 lakh that goes with the award, Dr Alva said.
 
 A flute-bansuri duet ‘Sammilana’ featuring Shashank Subramanyam and Praveen Godkhindi will kickstart the cultural programmes after the inaugural. Bhakta Vatsalam and Shubhankar Banerjee will accompany them on mridanga and tabla. Students of Alva’s institutions will take centre stage to present Odisha’s Gotipua dance, a neo-Kathak dance, Hudo Raas – folk dance of Gujarat and Badagu style of Yakshagana. Muslim students from Kerala will present Arbanamuttu.
 
 The second day will see Purbayan Chatterjee, U Rajesh, Ranjit Barot, Gulraj Singh, Mohini Dey and   come together for ‘Naada Madhurya’ performing on sitar, mandolin, drums, keyboard, bass guitar and tabla respectively. Bengalurean talent Rahul Vellal will present devaranama followed by Odissi-Gotipua dance drama by artists of Aradhana Dance Academy, Bhubaneshwar. Vilas Nayak will give a quick stop gap demo of his art skills.
 
 Day two will end with Nrithyotsava that students of Alva’s institutions will present. This includes stunts in mallakhamb and rope, Kathak – Anandamangalam Desh, Manipuri Dhol Cholom and Kandyan dance of Sri Lanka. Dr Alva said experts in the respective dance forms have been training the students of the institutions to perform these dances and physical exercises as they are originally performed and even the students have put in hours of practice to get it right.
 
 The finale will see the Alva’s Varna Virasat award conferred on eminent artist   of Rajasthan. The award carries a purse of Rs 25,000 prior to the start of final day’s proceedings of Virasat. Shan and Payal Dev, Bollywood playback singers will start proceedings in ‘Sangeetha Rasasanje’. Gaargi, Archana and Samanvi of   will present ‘gaanarchana’ and this will be followed by cultural programmes by Alva’s students.
 
 This includes Bharatanatyam – Pushpanjali, Manipuri stick dance and Sri Lankan folk dance. The foundation has made arrangements for free bus facility from Nishmitha Towers at Moodbidri to Virasat venue and from venue back to the town after the event, Dr Alva said. The ongoing Alva’s Varna Virasat, and Alva’s Shilpa Virasat organized as part of Alva’s Virasat will be the special attraction with sculptors and artists showcasing their special talents.
 
