MUMBAI: In a city that lacks playgrounds and parks, the loss of even a   used for sports tournaments is a calamity . For years, a plot in   was used by a private trust, St Anthony's Institute, to hold   until it was taken over by the suburban collector's office in 2012.

 Today, the plot is a haven for drug addicts and people sitting and drinking alcohol at night.Also, neighbourhood restaurants and bars use the plot, illegally, for valet parking, the institute has claimed in several letters of complaint to the local police station and the suburban collector.
 
 Trouble started when some gaothan residents complained against the trust to the collector, stating that the institute was exploiting the land for commercial purposes. Since the lease had expired, the collector swiftly took over the plot five years ago, but has kept it vacant since then. “They did it out of spite and for selfish motives.They shut it down and deprived hundreds of children who were using the facilities,“ said Anandini Thakoor, the institute's chairperson.
 
 Kenneth Drego, honorary secretary of the institute's sports academy , said that every year 12 teams from across Mumbai used to participate in the rink hockey tournament.“We have had well-known people as chief guests. including the late Congress MP Sunil Dutt, tennis legend Leander Paes and former hockey player Joaquim Carvalho for the Bandra Floodlit Rink Hockey Tournament,“ he said. It was also used for tennis, basketball and rubber ball cricket.
 
 The plot had been used for sports activities since 1947 when the land was first leased to the St Anthony's School Trust for a 15-year-period, but then never renewed.
 
 “In 2001, the suburban collector offered to renew the lease, to which the trust agreed.But for some reason it was never done,“ said Drego. And then in 2012, the collector took back the plot. “All outdoor activities conducted by the trust were suspended thereafter since the land belonged to the government. But the trust continues to conduct various other sports activities on a tiny strip that still remains with it,“ he said.
 
 Suburban collector Deependra Singh Khushwaha did not respond to a TOI query on the matter.
 
 For three years, the insti tute has complained several times to the Khar police and the collector against the plot's misuse by outsiders. “Under the garb of conducting sports activities, some locals are conducting sports events and collecting huge sums of money by way of entry fee every weekend,“ said the institute in its letter to the collector.
 
 Bandra MLA Ashish Shelar said some locals want the plot to be kept open to public. “I have asked the collector to secure the plot by installing a gate and deploy security .“
 
 Neil Pereira, who represents the Pali Gaothan East Indian Residents, said the residents are now beautifying the plot with the help of the local corporator. “The plot is reserved for a playground and children play cricket and football daily. Earlier it was fenced by the institute (which runs a club). The tennis court and basketball court was used only by its members,“ he said.
 
 But Thakoor said the ground was open to everyone and the fees they charged were low. Shelar said that like the BMC, the collector too should frame a policy about land under its control. “After that the institute can apply for a lease,“ he said.
 
 Amidst the clash of egos between the two groups, the plot remains deserted.
 
