College fests are one of the biggest platforms open to student talent. And the cash prizes that many of them promise are an added bonus for budding artistes. Last month, Fluxus, the   of   Indore, was a great hit for all these reasons. It showcased several singers, bands and dancers, among other talents. But the youngsters who participated and won competitions are now having to run behind the institution for their prize money.   Times brings to you both the sides of the story.

 
 
 
 Purusharth Jain, who won second place in a singing competition at the fest, says, “The   for second position was `8,000. When I won, I was on cloud nine and made plans on spending the money to take part in other competitions. But I am yet to receive it. When I contacted the other participants I learnt that they are also in the same situation. And our phone calls are not being taken seriously.” Akshay Singh, who had won the Voice of Fluxus competition, says, “I have won `12,000. We haven’t even got certificates for winning.” 
 Palash Mehta, the manager of rock band Ceaseless Juncture, who won second place, shares, “We used to call the organisers asking for our prize money so we could participate in IIT Joshpur’s fest that took place last week. And a week ago, the organisers transferred 70 per cent of our prize money and gave us five T-shirts instead of the remaining 30 per cent.” Purusharth Jain adds, “They should tell us the exact date when our money will be transferred rather than give us false hope.”
 
 
 
 
 On their part, the students from the organising committee of the fest, say they are in the process of sorting the issue out. Kalash Agrawal, the coordinator of the fest says, “We have the money, but the total number of participants who had won in various competitions are close to 100. We have made an excel sheet and have asked the members from the accounts department to get the payments sorted gradually. We have also collected the account details of the participants and their amounts will be transferred. When we were planning to organise the fest, the city was still reeling under demonetisation. Since there is a long list of participants who are to be paid, the process is taking a while. As a matter of fact, we are yet to receive full payments from our sponsors.”
 
