KOLHAPUR: The   Municipal Corporation (KMC) will be shifting the inert material from the existing dumping site at   to a lagoon located at Ulape Mala area in the coming few weeks. 

 The standing committee meeting held on Friday approved the proposal by the sanitation department to shift the inert waste to a lagoon. At present over 3 lakh tonne of waste has piled up at the dumping site and the civic authorities claim that half of it is inert material and the agencies, including Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) have given them green signal to dump the chemically inactive waste in the lagoon. Earlier activists had opposed to the idea stating that the underground water resources will get polluted, however, since the   has approved to dump only the chemically inactive waste and not garbage, there is no chance for any kind of contamination of underground water resources. 
 
 Vijay Patil, chief sanitation inspector of KMC, said, “We can transfer over 60,000 tonne of inert water material in the lagoon. We are developing the landfill site of the lagoon, which is in the last phase of completion. The waste will be dumped in the 25,000 square meter land of the lagoon that has completely dried up. We have taken precautions such as spreading of high density polyethylene (HDPE) sheets to avoid leaching of the liquid from the waste into the ground.”
 
 The total size of the occupied dumping site is around 8 acres and the civic authorities claim that the inert material is spread on 4.5 acres of the dumping ground. The KMC has marked spots at the Kasba Bawda dumping site from where the inert material composition is more than 77% as the MPCB has approved to shift the waste that is within the limit. The officials claim that it will take around six months to shift all the inert waste to the lagoon. The total amount of inert waste at the site is around 1.5 lakh tonne. Once the lagoon gets occupied and capped, the rest of the inert waste will be shifted to another landfill site located at  .
 
 “We had received bids from seven firms to shift the waste. Only three bidders qualified in technical round and one was disqualified after a criminal complaint was lodged against the bidder for manhandling KMC’s junior engineer. The senior authorities have asked us not to appoint any ineffective agencies for the work,” said Patil. 
 
