Allahabad: Most   in the fray from Allahabad district appear to be only filling the vacuum following the exit of their husbands from active politics. 

 There are as many as six women candidates in the fray from the district. However, all of them barring Richa Singh, the SP candidate from City West, have entered politics after their husbands were either murdered or were imprisoned.
 
 Be it the sitting SP MLAs from City West and Pratappur, or the BJP candidate from Meja, or for that matter the women candidates from Handia and Soroan, are all glaring example of how women are forced to enter politics when either pushed by their husbands or by the party when their husbands are murdered. Only a few like Richa choose active politics as a career. 
 
 Sample this, when former BSP MLA from City West, Raju Pal was murdered in board daylight in January 2005, his wife Puja was given a party ticket in the by-elections by BSP. In 2002, Raju Pal had lost elections for the seat to mafia don Atiq Ahmad. However, in 2004, Ahmad resigned from the seat after being elected to the Lok Sabha. Raju won the subsequent election in November 2004, defeating Atiq’s brother Khalid Azim alias Mohammad Ashraf but was later murdered. 
 
 Since the death of her husband, Puja has been in active politics, winning this seat on a BSP ticket in both the previous assembly elections (2007 and 2012). She first defeated Khalid Azim in 2007 and then defeated his elder brother Atiq Ahmad in 2012. Puja is again in the fray on a BSP ticket. 
 
 Another such example is the Samajwadi Party (SP) MLA from Pratappur, Vijma Yadav. Wife of former SP MLA from Jhunsi assembly constituency Jawahar Pandit, Vijma entered politics after the murder of her husband on August 13, 1996. Later on, she won the assembly elections in 1996 and 2002, but lost in 2007 elections. However, she once again won in the last assembly elections from Pratappur seat, formed following delimitation. She is again the SP candidate from the same seat.
 
 Neelam Karvariya is another woman who is all set to fill the vacuum as her husband Udaibhan Karwaria is presently imprisoned in connection with the murder of former SP MLA Jawahar Yadav. Udaibhan had been a two-time winner from Bara assembly seat (2002 and 2007) from BJP. The party has now decided to field his wife, who would be contesting from Meja assembly seat as Bara is now reserved seat. 
 
 Another trial for filling the gap is being done from Handia, from where the wife of former MLA Rakeshdhar Tripathi is in the fray. Pramila Tripathi is contesting the elections from Apna Dal (Sonelal faction). 
 
 Among all these, two women candidates, Richa Singh and Nidhi Yadav are also trying their luck in this year’s assembly elections. While Nidhi, daughter of SP MLC Vasudev Yadav, is contesting from Handia, Richa is in the fray from City West. Likewise, Geeta Devi is BSP candidate from Soraon seat. 
 
 
