KOCHI: Many of us have seen the chequered   in the city, but have we ever wondered what happens when they are on duty. How do we get in touch with them (dial 1515) or do they just rush in on hearing a commotion? To know how this new  , TOI decided to tag along with the team to get a first-hand experience. 

 Ernakulam has four Pink patrol teams that oversee Kochi city, Fort Kochi, Tripunithura and Kakkanad from 7am to 9pm in two shifts. Most of the complaints they receive are domestic disputes.
 
 The day starts at 7am for those in the first shift. "On most days, we don't get many calls. We park the car and wait to receive complaints from Pink patrol control room. Some people directly approach us with complaints," they said. While waiting in the car   and   and   on the practical difficulties they face in their line of work.
 
 "A school student was seen sitting at a hangout place with her friend, a boy. She claimed to be a student at an international school. We asked her to call her parents or we could take her home. She refused to get into the car. Meanwhile, the boy intervened and said the girl was being forced to marry someone without her consent and her parents were senior government officials. We told her that we would take her to the police station. She reluctantly agreed to go home," said Anandavally.
 
 The ASI said that the girl took a roundabout way home. "She first took us to her tuition teacher's home. Finally, she took us home. We were shocked to see the condition of her parents and the house. She came from a poor family," she added. "If we leave teenagers without taking details and something happens later, public will blame us. When we ask questions, teenagers are offended. We don't harass people," said Ameera and Sheeja. The morning team did not receive complaints till 2pm. The team has to attend calls, take woman or children in distress to their house or hostel and help them file a police complaint. They do not receive much support or appreciation for their duty.
 
 Chitra G S, who drove in the evening shift said: "I am coming from Edavanakkad and I have two small kids. I hardly get five hours of sleep as my work concludes at 9pm and I have the morning shift next day. I am suffering from high blood pressure due to the lack of sleep." Since the team are on the move, they have to rely on railway station toilets. The evening team received a complaint from Kaloor around 6.30pm. Since there was severe traffic, they had to take shortcuts to reach Kaloor from high court, where they had parked. "We are not opposing teenager freedom, they should behave properly. We see many cases where students bunk class and wander with friends. We take such students school or their homes," says ASI Sarala MR and CPO Hemachandra B C after settling a wage dispute between a family and servant in Kaloor.
 
