Mumbai: In a significant order, a special Protection of Children from   Offences (POCSO) Act court recently ruled that   a woman repeatedly in a crowded area amounts to sexual  . The court convicted and sentenced 24-year-old Wadala-based man, Saddam Shaikh, to one-year imprisonment for harassing and stalking two 14-year-old  .

  The court refused to accept the plea of the accused that the pushing took place as the place was overcrowded. “If the accused pushed prosecutrix (survivor) only once, one can understand that it happened by mistake in a crowded area. While walking he may push, but when the same act is committed repeatedly, the intention of the person is clear—that is, he outraged the modesty of the survivors,” the special court said.
 
 The incident took place on August 26, 2015 when the two girls were returning home from tuition classes. 
 
 Both the survivors testified in court and corroborated each other’s version of the incident. The girls said around 7.10pm, the accused hit one of them on the left arm. The girls assumed that it happened by mistake and moved ahead. After walking a few steps further, the accused pushed the second of the two survivors. The girls said they again ignored the incident and continued to walk towards home. However, when the accused pushed the second of the two girls again, she got scared and screamed for help. People gathered around the girls and caught the accused. The cops were called. The police arrived at the spot and took the accused into custody. The accused was booked under IPC sections 354A (sexual harassment) and 354D (stalking) and section 12 (sexual harassment of a minor) of the POCSO Act.
 
 The court mainly relied on the testimony of the two minors to find the accused guilty. The court said neither of them knew the accused and hence there was no reason for both minors to falsely implicate him. It further observed that in sexual harassment cases, an accused can be convicted on sole testimony of the survivor, if it is found reliable.
 
 “Nowadays, such incidents with teenage girls happen regularly. Due to fear, the said cases are not reported. But in the present case, both the survivors have raised a voice and the accused was caught by people on the spot. Even the accused has not denied his presence at the spot. As such, the prosecution proved the charges levelled against the accused,” the court said.
 
