PUNE: A special court here has sentenced a youth to three years of rigorous imprisonment for sexually assaulting a 14-year-old girl at   in November 2013.

 Special judge   sentenced accused Ravi Shinde (24) of   for offences under Section 354 (assault or criminal force to outrage modesty of woman) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 8 (sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. According to the case put up by special public prosecutor  , the girl (name withheld), a Standard IX student, was attending a private coaching class at Navi Sangvi. Shinde followed her for a few days and asked her to marry him. He even caught hold of her hand, which made her feel embarrassed and she narrated the incident to her parents.
 
 Her father then accompanied her to the class on November 30, 2013, and stood nearby asking her to alert him in case Shinde harassed her. After her class, Shinde approached her at Krishna Bazaar chowk near the class and caught hold of her hand once again. When she tried to set herself free, he dealt a fist blow on her chest. The girl raised an alarm, drawing the attention of her father and other passersby , who apprehended Shinde. They later handed him over to the Sangvi police, where the girl's father lodged an FIR. Assistant police inspector Minal Patil probed the case.
 
 During the trial, Shinde argued that he had a previous friendship with the girl, which was not approved by her parents, and that he was falsely implicated. He argued that the incident was improbable in a public place and the prosecution did not examine two class mates who would regularly accompany the girl. The court dismissed these arguments, observing that the re was nothing on record to shake the evidence recorded by the girl and the same stood corroborated by the evidence given by her father.
 
 It pointed out that the girl raised an alarm, which drew the attention of her father and other passersby . “The parents of the girl had acted and there is no reason to hold that there was meeting of mind prior to the incident to involve the accused in a false case,“ judge Kale observed. Non-examina tion of her classmates, who were absent on the day of the incident, did not affect the me rits of the case, the court held.
 
