PATNA: There will be no home centre for the practical examinations of matriculation and intermediate from next year. The decision was taken on Wednesday at the Bihar School Examination Board ( ) governing body meeting chaired by board chairman Anand Kishor.

 Kishor said the board had constituted a three-member committee headed by chief vigilance officer Sudhir Kumar in June to review the practice of using home centres for practical examinations. “The board has taken this decision on the committee’s recommendations. The practical exam centres would be allotted by the district magistrates,” Kishor said.
 
 “The marks in practical exams will be given by external examiners. An internal examiner will assist the process. The board has also prepared a proposal to change the marking pattern for music paper. Till now, music students give theory examination for 30 marks and practical for 70 marks. Now, it would be 50:50,” said Kishor. The proposal for the same has been sent to the education department for its approval.
 
 Kishor said the board has taken the initiative after the disgraced ex-intermediate topper Ganesh Kumar alias Ganesh Ram was tweaked by the reporters to check his practical knowledge of music. He had got 65 out of 70 in music practical and only 18 in theory.
 
 The intermediate and matriculation mark sheet, passing certificates and other documents would now be delivered to the students by nine regional centres at Patna, Gaya, Bhagalpur, Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur, Purnia, Chhapra, Munger and Saharsa. “Students can get these documents from the centres from August 15 onwards. Students can also request for corrections in their certificates at these centres. The regional centres will be coordinated by a redressal cell at the BSEB headquarters. The online grievance redressal system will be functional from August 25,” he said.
 
 The board has also formed a two-member committee comprising Prakash Jha and Mohan Jha, both retired personnel of the general administration department, to prepare a draft of service conditions and recruitment rules for more than 100 recently- appointed staff on contract basis.
 
 
