LUCKNOW: For the past 20 years, Waseem Ali and his family from Jarwal in Bahraich have been making Shahi Zarih (Tazias) for Azadaari processions taken out in the city during  . While the cost of making tazias has gone up by 25% this year, the Husainabad & Allied Trust ( ), which hires these craftsmen, has kept the budget unchanged for the past three years. 

 Ali managed to work on a shoe-string budget in the previous years, but this time he is finding it very difficult given the increase in prices due to Goods and Services Tax ( ).
 
 Ali says the cost of items used in making 22 feet high Zarih (replicas of Imam Husain's mausoleum) have registered a steep hike this year -be it the star paper bought from   in Lucknow, Abrak paper from Biswa, or wax from Kanpur.
 
 “The cost of 150 pieces of fine bamboo sticks has jumped from Rs 8,000 last year to Rs 12,000 this year. Similarly, price of the star paper box has gone up,“ claims Ali. “The additional burden of 18% GST has put more strain. All this when HAT has not changed the budget for the past three years,“ Ali adds. As per their contract with HAT, Ali and his labourers get Rs 2.55 lakh for making four main Zarihs, including Shahi Mome (wax) ki Zarih, Abrak ki Zarih, and Zarih of Shahnajaf, all taken out in the first Muharram procession. Two other decorative preparations for Mehndi of seventh Muharram are also part of the same cont ract. “The budget should be increased by at least Rs 70,000 every year given the inflation.This year even my labourers are demanding a hike; in fact, I'm left with only eight labourers as compared to 12 last year,“ says Ali.
 
 Zariah, which weighs around 5-6 quintal, is a token of amity between Shias and Sunni sects, with Sunni craftsmen from Jarwal given the task of making it since 1997 -when the 22-year ban on Muharram processions was lifted in the city.
 
 Despite the cost constraints, Ali says, the grandeur of Zarih will remain the same as labourers will take a wage cut to make up for high cost.“Last year too, my labourers hardly got any money . I had refused to make Zariahs this year but then the administration requested us to come “ he says.
 
 
