MEERUT: Inspired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s focus on Swachh Bharat, a group of students from a city-based college has taken up the mantle to keep the city clean by  , especially the  .

  Klean Kabaad, as the start-up is called, was born after a group of five engineering students from Sir Chotu Ram Engineering College (SCREC) in Meerut realised that there was a dearth of knowledge among the residents regarding recycling of waste. The initiative provides services to its customers where the waste is picked up from their homes, and then recycled or disposed of at a certified waste disposal Centre.
 
  Initially set up in November 2016 for trials, Klean Kabaad was launched officially in March by Ankit Chauhan, Nandita Joshi, Sakshi Gupta, Pragyan Kumar, Arpit Malik, all students of SCREC. “We went around the city on our bikes and asked people what they knew about wastage recycling and also to figure out how the business of   and disposal worked in Meerut. That is when we realised that credible technology in the whole procedure was an untapped area, which is where we would come in,” said Chauhan, a native of Amroha and a student of mechanical engineering in the city.
 
  The team has employed a team of three people who pick up waste from their clients on Wednesdays, Saturdays and Sundays. The waste is then delivered to a local scrap trader, who the company has tied up with. “The process of separation of waste and identifying of valuable material happens at the scrap trader’s unit, under our supervision. We have not been able to set up our own unit due to lack of funding”, said Gupta.
 
  Funding, the students say, has been the biggest hurdle in this endeavour. “We received a small amount from our colege but it isn’t enough. We are spending out of our pockets at the moment,” said Pragyan Kumar from the same team. The team, however, is dedicated to work towards expanding its customer base and make people understand the technology involved. “There are parts of an electronic device that can still be used. People generally assume that the entire machine is useless and throw it away. But, if the different parts are separated by people who understand how they work, they can be of significant value. That is the value that we are looking to capture”, said Joshi.
 
  “Start-ups like these are very important. There is huge potential in this sector as it often remains ignored. There is also a crucial positive contribution which initiatives like this make to the environment,” said Harit Soni, a sustainable energy expert.
