LUCKNOW: In the investigations into chest specialist   death case, it has now surfaced that the gunshots were fired at the 45-year-old doctor from a distance. In suicide cases, a contact   wound is found on the body, so the latest findings do not go hand-in-hand with the suicide theory.

 Sircar was found dead on the terrace of his bungalow in Krishna colony of   on February 2. Sircar had sustained two gunshots injuries on the skull. The family told police that Sircar had committed suicide with his .32 bore licensed revolver. 
 
 Since the suicide note was handed over to police by Sircar’s acquaintance at KGMU’s mortuary, police were waiting for the handwriting analysis report to confirm if it was indeed Sircar who wrote it. What compelled police to probe the case thoroughly was the presence of two gunshot wounds on the doctor’s skull.
 
 Former director of state’s Aishbagh medico-legal cell, Y K Pathak said the panel of two doctors who conducted the autopsy examination were extremely focused and meticulous. “Observations are very clear. Usually, when person uses a gun to shoot self, characteristics of contact wound are found on the skin. In this case, no such findings have been noted,” said Pathak, who is joint director in the health department.
 
 Another forensic expert Dr Abhas Kumar Singh said while noting down the firearm injuries found on Sircar’s body, doctors have not come across muzzle impression or burn injury on the skin tissues. “Blackening and tattooing, the two characteristics found when bullet is fired from a close range are mentioned, however,” said Singh who heads department of forensic medicine at a private university in Lucknow.
 
 According to the two experts such firearm injuries can occur if gunshots are fired from a distance of at least 4 inches. Mahanagar police were yet to register a case in the matter though. “We have roped in forensic experts to give opinion on the entire case and ascertain the circumstances leading to doctor’s death. Other aspects are being probed and case will be registered if we come across some anomaly,” said Kumar.
 
