VADODARA: A resident of Pratapnagar, Jayashri Srivastava, was duped of Rs 3.98 lakh by an unidentified person who contacted her through a  . Srivastava told police that a man named Ravi Kumar contacted her in June last year. He told her that he is a   but works as a doctor in Afghanistan. 

 He told her that he liked her profile and wants to marry her. She told him to come to India and talk with her parents but he kept calling and messaging her for some days. The accused then told her that his contract was getting over on June 25 last year and that he would be coming to India. He also asked for her residential address.
 
 On June 18, the accused messaged her and said that he would be sending a parcel containing some medical equipment and his family treasure. Srivastava had asked him to not send the parcel but he said that he has already sent it. He mailed her the next day and told her that she will have to pay Rs 98,500 to get the parcel from the courier firm. Srivastava later got a call from some person who identified himself as Sachin Sharma. He gave her a bank account number and asked her to deposit the money for getting the parcel. After she deposited the money, she got another call from Sharma who said that the parcel contains a cheque of US $ 1.2 million and medical equipment worth $ 3.2 million. He told her that she will have to pay Rs 3 lakh towards tax and if she doesn’t pay then the customs department will take legal action against her. After Srivastava deposited Rs three lakh in the account of one Sanjay Kumar, she got a call from someone identifying himself as   (RBI) head.
 
 He told her that she will have to click on a link to get the cheque of $ 1.2 million dollars in her account. When Srivastava clicked on the link it asked for a code and the conman identifying himself as RBI head told her that she will have to deposit another Rs 10.50 lakh if she wanted the code. Srivastava then got suspicious and contacted the cyber-crime cell in June last year. The cops investigated the case and seized Rs 4.98 lakh from two bank accounts that Srivastava gave to them. A complaint of cheating was registered against the accused by the crime branch on Monday.
 
