Former badminton champion and coach   recently made a quick visit to inspect his upcoming academy in Greater Noida. Gopichand’s academy, which will be run by the   Authority, is part of the   in Greater Noida. During his visit, the Dronacharya awardee took stock of Noida’s sporting infrastructure, and was quite impressed by what he saw. Speaking to us during his visit, Gopichand spoke about the badminton facilities in the city and why distance from Delhi should not be a deterrent for Greater Noida developing as a sports hub.

 All praise for the infrastructure and facilities available to the players in the city, Gopichand labelled it the best in the country. He told us, "I haven’t seen anything like this in India, at least. I am struggling to name one facility that can challenge this one, in terms of infrastructure. The only improvement I can think of here is adding ramps to make it wheelchair-friendly, which has also been done partially. Many stadia don’t even have this option, but I see they have ramps here for the differently-abled to get to the sitting area. They just need to extend that to the playing area, so that even para-athletes can use the facility."
 
  
  
  Pullela Gopichand at the Shaheed Vijay Singh Pathik Sports Complex in Greater Noida (BCCL)
 
 
 Talking about how the sporting infrastructure in Greater Noida is superior to that of Delhi, Gopichand said, “We have many great facilities in Delhi – like Siri Fort or Thyagraj. But what sets this one apart is you get everything under one roof.”
 
 He adds, "You have a running track, a gym, a pool and centres for every major sport under one single complex. From a training perspective, you will not get anything better anywhere in NCR, maybe even India. You look at the overall facility and realise that a trainee athlete will get all his needs attended to under one roof. Because of that, I think the distance from Delhi shouldn’t matter. And anyway, if one wants to train, they should be prepared to travel great distances. This is still close to the national capital."
 
 As a parting shot, Gopichand promised to return soon and make his visits to Noida more frequent. "Once the academy is operational, I will be here at least once every month and supervise the training myself to an extent," he said. And would we see some of his famous protégés like   and   here giving tips to Noida’s budding shuttlers? "Hopefully, yes," Gopichand said, adding, "Of course, that depends on their schedule and tournaments, but I would want them to come here and interact with kids. The youngsters will learn a lot from that exposure."
 
