HYDERABAD: The   and pubs dotting the   may have transformed the IT hub into a tippler’s paradise, but an increasing number of residents rue how their quiet,   have turned into night-life destinations marked with   decibel levels and unwarranted chaos.

 Consider Road Number 36 in Jubilee Hills, which now has no less than 10 pubs within a 2-km stretch. The situation is no different on either side of the Hi-Tec City road near  , which also has more than 10 bars and lounges within a 3-km radius. The deafening music and revelry through the night figure on top of the residents’ concerns.
 
 “This area was a quiet neighbourhood, which was one of the primary reasons for settling down here. Now, with the area dotted with so many pubs, even sleeping at night has become difficult,” said Sridhar Konna, a resident of Kavuri Hills. “The pubs nearby start playing loud music from as early as 6.30 pm,” he added.
 
 The 12 midnight deadline does not deter pub revellers from creating nuisance on the roads, said Yashaswini Goud, a 53-year-old resident of Madhapur. “Authorities must crack the whip on these pubs. Even at 2 in the morning, pub hoppers can be found making loud noises on the roads and disturbing the residents here. These areas were supposed to be for residential purposes only. Authorities must see to it that these pubs are moved to a different area altogether,” said Goud.
 
 The rise in the number of retail wine shops and liquor outlets in Madhapur and Miyapur-Kukatpally belt over the last year have also made residents wary of travelling along these routes after 6 pm.
 
 “Most wine shops and liquor outlets today have adjoining bars or have put up temporary arrangements to allow their patrons to drink within the premises. Walking on the roads where these outlets are located has become scary as people can be found causing nuisance in an inebriated condition,” said Sushmita Banerjee, a techie and resident of Miyapur.
 
 Not surprising then that the maximum number of drink driving cases have been recorded in these areas at all times of the day.
 
