NEW DELHI: The   upheld and relied heavily on three sets of dying declarations of  , including the one made mostly through gestures, nods and jottings as she was not in a position to speak or write properly, to confirm death sentences to four convicts. 

 A bench of Justices Dipak Misra, R Banumathi and   said a dying declaration should not necessarily be made by words or in writing and it could be through gestures. It refused to give credence to the submission made on behalf of the convicts that Nirbhaya's dying declarations not be relied on.
 
 Three dying declarations of Nirbhaya were recorded. The first by a doctor when she was admitted to hospital on the fateful night of December 16, 2012 and the second on December 21 by the SDM during which she gave exact details of the crime. The third declaration was recorded by a metropolitan magistrate on December 25 and was mostly through gestures. 
 
 Challenging the validity of her dying declarations, the convicts contended there were discrepancies in her statements and the third account through gestures was not videographed. They told the bench that her statements should not be given credence. The court, however, rejected the plea. "The contention that the third dying declaration made through gestures lacks credibility and that the same ought to have been videographed, in our view, is totally sans substance. The dying declaration recorded on the basis of nods and gestures is not only admissible but also possesses evidentiary value, the extent of which shall depend upon who recorded the statement," the bench said.
 
 "In the present case, this caution was aptly taken, as the person who recorded her dying declaration was the metropolitan magistrate and he was satisfied himself as regards the mental alertness and fitness of the prosecutrix, and recorded her dying declaration by noticing her gestures and her own writings," the bench said.
 
 The court held that all three dying declarations were voluntary, consistent and trustworthy, satisfying the test of reliability. 
 
 It said the dying declarations are well corroborated by medical and scientific evidence and supported by the testimony of her male friend who was with her on that night. "In the case of rape and sexual assault, the evidence of prosecutrix is very crucial and if it inspires confidence of the court, there is no requirement of law to insist upon corroboration of the same for convicting the accused," the court said. 
 
 
