KOCHI: Fissures in the ruling front came to the fore on Friday at the corporation council meet with two standing committee chairpersons coming out openly against mayor  . While the works standing committee chairman P M Harris voiced his concerns over the way in which mayor was handling the files related to road digging permissions for telecom service providers, town planning committee chairperson Shiny Mathew criticized the mayor for keeping town planning committee under a cloud of suspicion.

 Harris said that he hasn’t seen files related to road-cutting nod sought by Reliance. “Though I gave a letter to the corporation secretary demanding that all files related to the issue be given to me, the officials haven’t produced them so far. The application given by Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd (RJIL) came up for the discussion at the   on November 8. But the file in this regard is yet to be given to works standing committee for consideration. Whenever we ask the officials, they would say that the file is with the mayor,” Harris said.
 
 He asked the corporation secretary, Haritha V Kumar, to submit the file to the standing committee without further delay. “It is learnt that there are around 10 files related to the applications submitted by Reliance. Airtel has also informed that a similar application is pending with the corporation for the past 10 months. So, all the files should be cleared without delay unless there are sufficient reasons. Otherwise, it will lead to corruption charges,” he said. All the files related to the Reliance should be placed in the council and, if any irregularity is found, vigilance inquiry should be recommended,” Harris said.
 
 Shiny Mathew said that the project to erect signage boards was awarded to   during the stint of Tony Chammany as mayor, without a council discussion. Later, it was found that the firm violated the terms of agreement. The committee gave its recommendations to extend the period for erecting signage boards till December 31, 2016. It also instructed that the report should be placed in the council for seeking its nod. But the mayor unilaterally decided to recommend vigilance probe into the issue. 
 
 The opposition councillors started shouting demanding the resignation of Soumini Jain, following which the mayor wound up the council meeting. Later, speaking to media, Soumini said that she has not withheld any files. 
 
 The vigilance probe was recommended after a preliminary inquiry showed that the contractor breached the agreement, she said.
 
