

 GURUGRAM: The two-and-half-year-old leopard, which was rescued from Taru’s   on December 28, was released in Aravalli forest area on late Tuesday evening by a team of forest department. This was first time in recent history when a rescued leopard has been released in Aravalli forest.
 
 The   was rescued from a field at Mehllaka, around 35 km from the city. The big cat had sustained injuries during the rescue operation and was under observation for past six days. After being rescued using tranquiliser leopard was first sent for a medical examination to Sohna centre. 
 
 Later, it was sent to  , where it is being treated by qualified vets under the supervision of the forest department's superintendent.
 
 “We released the rescued leopard in Aravalli,” said conservator of forest (south circle) MD Sinha adding that big cat was released in late evening to keep the operation and location of release secrete. He said intension was to keep location and timing of release secrete for the safety of leopard.
 
 He said leopard was rescued after seven hour long operation during which big cat had sustained minor scratches. Also, the animal, frightened by the presence of huge human gathering, was trying to run away, which had resulted in swelling in its joints. "We waited till the scratches healed. The scratches would lead to infection if left unattended. These apart, there was no serious ailment or complication," he said.
 
 Sinha said as per the protocol rescued animal are kept under observation for 48 hours to wear off the effects of tranquiliser. “In this case leopard has sustained minor injuries so it was released after six days of proper treatment,” said Sinha adding that leopard have their own territory so it was advisable to release in the area similar where animals use to stay before rescue. Besides they had to take permission from chief   warden for release operation.
 
 “We were very keen to tag the rescued leopard with radio collar, before its release, to track its movement and habitat. It would have been great for understanding the habitat and behaviour of Aravalli’s leopard,” said Sinha adding that it could not happen in absence of required permission.
 
 Forest department has sent a proposal, several months back, for tagging leopard with radio collar to study their habitat and behaviour. But the proposal is still pending for approval.
 
