MUMBAI:  , it seems, can't decide whether he shares a 'hate hate' or 'love-hate' relationship with the Aussies. Or maybe, the circumstances don't allow him to. When the just-concluded, bitterly-fought Test series against Australia kicked off with the first Test at Pune, the India skipper had remarked: "I'm really good friends with all these guys off the field."

 However, at the end of an acrimonious series marked by controversial incidents and run-ins between the two teams, the 28-year-old came out all guns blazing in Dharamshala and stirred a hornet's nest by saying that he no longer considered Australian cricketers as friends.
 
 In 48 hours, though, Kohli is singing a different tune, or, should we say, with the   less than a week away (it begins on April 5), talking like the captain of the Royal Challengers Bangalore, a team which includes three Australian players - Mitchell Starc,   and  .
 
 On Thursday, Kohli took to the social media to downplay his controversial remarks about giving up on Australian cricketers as friends, saying his comments were blown out of proportion and he remained on good terms with some players. "My answer at the post-match conference has been blown way out of proportion," Kohli wrote on his official Twitter account. "I did not categorically say the whole Australian team but only a couple of individuals. I continue to be in good terms with the few guys I know & who I've played with at RCB & that doesn't change."
 
 Kohli's tweet will surely ease the atmosphere in the RCB dressing room, even though Starc won't be a part of IPL-10, Watson is now retired, and Travis Head wasn't even in the Australian touring party. It would also be welcomed by the RCB owners, who may have wanted their captain to quickly put the past behind and move on.
 
 
 
 
 Meanwhile, Smith, who triggered the 'Cheatgate" by trying to seek dressing room help in taking a DRS call during the second Test, said that he "didn't know if Kohli was hinting at him in his tweet.'" Reacting to Smith's clarification, Smith, who'll be leading the   in the IPL, and may thus have to 'shake hands' with his IPL counterpart at some point during the T20 tournament (after Kohli recovers to play), said: "That is for Virat to answer. I don't know if I am one of those couple of players Virat was hinting at in his tweet today."
 
 "For me the series is done and dusted and India have outplayed us. I am now ready to lead a new bunch of team at the Pune Supergiant."   too felt that it was time for the hatchet to be buried. 
 
