HYDERABAD: Agitating drivers as well as cab aggregators refused to yield ground as the cab strike entered the 10th day on Monday. While drivers said that they had been called in for talks at the road transport department office, officials bluntly refused this claim.

 “There were no talks held today and we did not ask any cabbies or aggregators to come to our office. We tried to resolve the issue, but now it is up to them. They have to quickly come to some conclusion and solve their issues on their own,“ said T Raghunath, joint transport commissioner (JTC) on a day of fast paced developments.
 
 When asked whether they had earlier promised to hold talks on Monday , Raghunath said the government did propose discussions, but cab drivers had not agreed. “They did not listen to us and instead went on to stage a dharna at our office. So unless officials above us ask us to hold talks we won't intervene,“ he said.
 
 “As per the government's direction, we went to the transport department's office by 4 pm, but just like on Saturday no one from Ola or Uber turned up for the meet. Even officials are behaving as if they have nothing to do with the issue,“ Anjaneyulu K, president,  , said.
 
 A senior office bearer of the protesting taxi association said although cab aggregators did not turn up for discussions, there was a possibility of the strike getting called off on Tuesday keeping in view the problems faced by denizens.
 
 Late on Monday night,  ' and Owners' Association president Shiva said he would hand over the protest to retired Justice Chandra Kumar, CITU state secretary Sai Baba and JAC chairman Kodandaram at a press meet to be held on Tuesday morning.
 
 Ola, for its part, sent out a message via its app saying that it was now back and fully functional in Hyderabad. “We are now back and fully functional in Hyderabad. Sorry for the in convenience caused,“ the mess age read.
 
 But people continued to find it difficult to book cabs and faced a tough time heading to and fro work. “The Ola I booked kept me waiting at Banjara Hills for an hour, before I decided to take an auto,“ said Sahana Das, a designer. Uber officials could not be reached despite re peated attempts.
 
