THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Mayor   showed a combination of tact and patience to get the   (IDO) passed in the council meeting without a faint trace of objection here on Tuesday. The civic body will now submit proposals approved by the council for   to the state government. If necessary, the state government may consult with the chief town planner and finalize the IDO and will notify IDO through a government order. Once the order is issued, all the development activities in the city will be directly governed by provisions mandated in IDO.

 The ruling council had been circumspect right from the beginning of discussions to compile proposals for IDO knowing what the previous council had gone through owing to draft master plan -2031. What was directed to be finished in 15 days by the state government in November 2016 was put off again and again, sent to party for deliberations and circulated in ward level committees, where protests had sparked off pertaining to some of the proposals mentioned in draft master plan-2031. Even as pressure for submitting IDO mounted, the ruling council led by mayor did not flinch and bought ample time, accommodating suggestions and providing space for additions.
 
 The technical committee finalized the proposals by January itself, but it was put through a long tunnel involving party leadership, local leaders and all party leaders before bringing it for council’s approval. Finally when the proposal surfaced in the council meeting, dissent emerged from an unlikely corner as Palayam Rajan expressed concerns over the viability in running a city with two proposals for two areas. Mayor was smart to tone down the debate and he explored options to win over each and every councillor with the art of conviction.
 
 A meeting of all party leaders was held and proposals were presented convincingly. A team of town planners led by regional town planner was summoned for a workshop during which the experts took their time to answer every single query of the councillors. A final meeting of all party leaders was summoned and path was laid for clearance of IDO without any further trouble.
 
 In a way the proposal prepared by the council will go to state government without any change. As regarding proposals for road widening, no intervention will be made considering that IDO will be in effect only until a new master plan is prepared. As regarding the situation of having sanctioned master plan for one area and IDO for newly added areas, the councillors were taken into confidence on the notion that the people residing in newly added wards, which do not figure in sanctioned master plan, deserve relaxations in constructions.
 
