MUMBAI: Eleven-year-old Ghumi Prajapati has beaten   twice. Her first encounter with the disease began two days after she celebrated her third birthday. A   in her neck turned out to be neuroblastoma, which commonly affects children.

 Even as the disease was in an advanced stage, Ghumi’s parents and doctors at Tata Memorial Hospital, Parel decided to give her its best shot. The child underwent surgery, chemotherapy, radiation and subsequently a bone marrow transplant. “Our worst dreams came true when her cancer recurred after the transplant. We felt like we had hit the bottom but she fought on,” said her mother Aarti. 
 
 After two rigorous years of treatment, Ghumi finally defeated cancer. “She has been cancer-free for the last three years,” said Aarti. 
 
 Ghumi, who wants to grow up and become a doctor, won accolades at the World Children's Winners Games that was held in Russia for cancer survivors. Ghumi belongs to the lucky category of 70% children who are diagnosed and treated in time.   account for 5% of all cancers reported in the country and yet, doctors say, the awareness is much to be desired. It is estimated that more than 40,000-50,000 children are diagnosed with cancer every year of which 2,000-odd seek treatment in Tata.
 
 “The positive thing about childhood cancers is that these are largely curable. In urban centres such as Tata hospital, the rate is as high as 70-75%. But if we look at the national statistics, it is barely 20%,” said Dr Shripad Banavali, head of medical and pediatric oncology at Tata. Banavali said there is a lack of awareness that often delays diagnosis. “Pediatricians seldom suspect cancer when a child suffers from recurrent fever, pain or headache.” 
 
 At least 50% of childhood cancers are solid tumours, which include brain, bone, kidney, liver and soft tissues. “Much like adults, it is important to stage and categorize tumours for the best treatment outcome,” said Dr Sajid Qureshi, who specializes in solid tumours. He added that pediatric facilities across the country need to be enriched in terms of resources, personnel and financial assistance for better diagnosis and survival rates. 
 
 
