KOLKATA: Manthan subscribers had to make do without the daily dose of their favourite serials and films with several Zee channels, including Zee Bangla, Zee Cinema, Zee Anmol, Zee TV and  , being blanked off the MSO's platform since Saturday afternoon.

 This is the third channel blackout to hit Manthan since December. In January, Star TV withdrew its channels from Manthan for a fortnight over non-payment of dues of around Rs 27 crore.
 
  was in for a disappointment when she sat in front of the television to watch a popular programme on a Zee entertainment channel on Saturday evening. “Seeing it blank, I suspected it was a blackout. When I called my cable operator, he confirmed my fear. A blackout every alternate month is not fair. It is frustrating that it's only Manthan that faces blackouts regularly. I have requested my operator to switch to a different MSO,“ the housewife complained.
 
 Manthan declined to comment on the blackout, but it did concede having a payment problems with Zee. Its cheques to Zee bounced in recent weeks, prompting the broadcaster to issue a notice.“We shall not comment on the blackout now,“ said Sudip Ghosh, director of Manthan. Cable industry insiders pointed out that nonpayment of dues had been a regular problem with Manthan. “They have had at least six blackouts since 2014. Manthan has been running into trouble with every broadcaster. It can't always be the broadcaster's fault,“ said an MSO official.
 
 Soon after the January blackout, Manthan had lost around 5% of its subscriber base. After several operators shifted platform, the MSO promised a no-interruption service but the blackout bug revisited Manthan in less than two months.
 
 Plagued by the frequent interruption, several operators across Behala, New Alipore and Chetla have been contemplating a shift to other MSOs. “Sunscribers have been demanding that we shift to another platform. We plan to approach Siticable this week,“ said a representative of   Communication, an operator in New Alipore. Siticable seems only too eager to accept Manthan operators.“We don't want to poach, but we can't legally refuse operators, who want to join. Some had defected from Manthan in January despite the fact that we dissuaded them. Our charges are marginally higher than Manthan's. So I am not sure if a transfer will be profitable for either subscribers or operators,“' said  , director of Siticable.
 
