CHANDIGARH: Going to a hospital or health centre to get help for a   is not 'manly' in Dhanas, a village in Chandigarh. Researchers from the department of psychiatry at   and Hospital (GMCH), Chandigarh, found that patriarchy and other social factors make addicts hesitate to get help for drug addiction, which complicates  

  The study concluded that there was a tendency to   of being an addict, and that the village elders too at first denied that there was a problem.
 
 GMCH's psychiatry department has been running outreach programmes in Dhanas, a village on the outskirts of Chandigarh, for about 15 years, and the study was done as the outreach team had observed an increase in addiction. The study quotes the father of an opiate addict as telling doctors that “there are only 4 to 5 houses left in the village which do not have a single drug addict“.
 
 Many of the addicts who had approached the local dispensary for help said they had felt ashamed of getting treatment cards in the presence of the women of the village. The dispensary is frequently visited by children and women for healthcare needs. Many patients fo und it shameful to admit they have used drugs as their religion prohibits drug use.
 
 The study, `Overcoming barriers to community par ticipation in drug dependence treatment: An ethnography approach', was published in the Indian Journal of Social Psychiatry by  , Dr Suravi Patra, Dr Nitin Gupta and Dr Abhijit R Rozatkar.
 
 The team of health workers found that after initial denial, most villagers, including the village head (sarpanch), agreed that use of drugs was rampant in the area. The study quoted the sarpanch saying, “Almost all houses of the village have drug or alcohol abusers. The chemists sell tablets, capsules and syrups with addicting potential at an exorbitant price.“
 
 A former angandwadi worker told health workers who conducted the study that children have turned addicts and stopped attending school. “We were told that boys who were earlier healthy have started looking pale as they have taken to drugs," said  , main investigator of the study.
 
 Easy availability of drugs in the village had amplified the urge to take drugs, the study found. Despite initial reluctance to admit to addiction, after a series of meeting with users, their families and community leaders, the village gradually moved from the early phase of absolute denial to acceptance that drug and alcohol was a serious problem in their village requiring urgent attention, it said.
 
