MADURAI: As   in the district shrink fast, faremers are becoming increasingly interested about the guava tree that can be cultivated with a  . Besides, guavas  , selling for between `60 and `80 a kg in the  .
Raising the demand for quality guava saplings at the recent farmers' grievance redressal meeting, farming community leader M Pandian urged the horticulture department to guide farmers on raising guava trees.
 
 “The crop can be raised with limited water sources and can withstand drought conditions. The department should ensure that more gua va saplings are provided to farmers in the district,“ he said.
 
 Deputy director of horticulture G O Poopathy told farmers that there were about 4,000 saplings availa ble with the government horticulture farm at Poonchuthi. However, as an announcement on the subsidy on saplings is awaited, farmers can either procure them without the subsidy or wait till the scheme is announced, he said.
 
 At present, guava cultivations are spread over 500 hectares in Madurai district.Alanganallur and Palamedu are famous for guava cultivation, and it is picking up momentum in Melur block too.
 
 `Among horticulture crops in the district, mango tops the list followed by banana and guava, according to the horticulture department. However, guava requires at least drip irrigation unlike mango which can withstand tough conditions .
 
 Guava is being promoted in a big way after the National Horticulture Mission was introduced in 2005-06. In the past two years the focus has been more on high density farming.
 
 Usually , around 270 guava trees can be raised on a hectare of land. However, high density farming can help raise as many as 1,100 trees, said experts. “Under high density farming, guava farmers can claim subsidy of `16,250 per hectare,“ Poopathy told TOI.
 
 Horticulture officials said farmers preferred guava because the trees start to yield fruit in one-and-half years. Moreover, the ongoing drought had not taken a heavy toll on guava crops since most of these plantations were carried out with well irrigation.
 
 “With summer rain, the trees will thrive and drought impact will be less,“ they said.
 
