NEW DELHI:   is likely to announce a slew of reforms to the college   before the start of the 2017-18 session, many of which may not be implemented before the next session of 2018-19, though.

 The reforms include an early admission calendar, entrance-cum-merit admissions criteria, and an online entrance examination in line with CAT.
 
 “We are awaiting the recommendations of the admission committee. After this, they will be up for consultation with stakeholders, including teachers, students, even people outside of the   system, as we want the system to be fair. It is too early to say if we will be able to implement much of these from this season; we will first look at the logistics of the exercise, as the new admissions are only a couple of months away. The academic council will also have to approve the final set of recommendations,” Yogesh Tyagi, vice-chancellor of DU, said.
 
 Applications for undergraduate admissions are likely to be given out early this year. “DU is planning to advance admissions by a little over a month, which will offer a bigger window to the applicants,” Tyagi said. Thus, the applications would be out in April, which would include those of the four professional courses offered by DU at the undergraduate level.
 
 University officials, however, say that an extended window for applications is likely to benefit only a few candidates, like those with a gap year and those hoping to shift to DU from other institutions. DU’s admission committee also discussed a five-year-old recommendation for entrance-based undergraduate admission, which was made by a committee comprising S K Garg, the principal of   and Deepak Malhotra, the former principal of   (evening), who has since passed away.
 
 “TOI highlighted the issue of SRCC admissions last year. We have to find a way out of such anomalies, which is why the mode of admissions are up for discussion,” Tyagi said. TOI reported on the anomaly of the admission process into SRCC in the 2016, where an unprecedented 80% of the candidates who got admission on the first two days were from Tamil Nadu, with a large number of these from two particular schools under the Tamil Nadu Board.
 
 An online entrance examination for DU admissions looks farfetched at the moment. “Even if we were to lower the criteria for such an exam to 70% in aggregate in the Class XII boards, we may yet have nearly 10-15 lakh candidates qualifying for it from 26 different boards. DU cannot handle the logistics right now and we are treading carefully on this,” a senior DU official said.
 
