NAGPUR: Over 20 failed   from 2013, 2014 and 2015 batches on Tuesday approached   seeking one last chance to appear for backlog papers under the  . 

 Surprisingly, instead of rejecting the demand outright, Kane sought one week’s time to take a decision on the issue, indicating the university’s soft stance towards private engineering students. “He told us that if it is possible, he would consider our request and take a call in a week,” students told TOI.
 
 When approached, Kane refused to speak to TOI.
 
 These students belong to  , Vilasrao Deshmukh College of Engineering and Technology, Wainganga College of Engineering and Management etc. 
 
 In the past, TOI had reported that most of the engineering colleges in the region are functioning without full time faculty. 
 
 Students had appeared for the backlog papers of seventh and eighth semesters in winter 2016 examination and declared failed when the result was announced early this month. This was their last chance to appear under the old pattern as per the university rules.
 
 Besides this, they would now be required to appear under the   that would make new syllabus applicable to them. 
 
 NU had allowed five attempts (including then existing three) to such failed students to clear the subjects after which they were to be offered absorption scheme as per new syllabus.
 
 In 2012, NU had decided to grant partial ‘carry on’ to engineering students who failed to clear required number of subjects to be promoted to next semester. Such students were allowed to take admission to the fifth and seventh semesters but prohibited from appearing in next examinations unless they cleared their pending subjects. 
 
 Now, they are again demanding extension of the facility to appear under the old pattern. According to NU sources, the ordinance notifying the ‘carry on’ facility was rejected by the governor.
 
 The university was said to be under pressure from private colleges owned by education barons and politicians to fulfil ‘illegal’ demands of repeatedly failing students after the introduction of credit-based system (CBS). 
 
