RAJKOT: Rajkot Municipal Corporation ( ) has prepared the   proposal and will be sending it to the   to obtain grants under the  . Rajkot is among the 100 cities selected by the central government under the mission.

 According to Rajkot municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani, the state government has approved the proposal and it will sent it to the central government next week. 
 
 “We have modified our Smart City proposal after public consultation with various stake holders,” said Pani.
 
 The Rs 2,623 crore proposal includes area based development project (Rs 2,177.46 crore) and pan city initiatives (Rs 445.55 crore).
 
 “The funds for the proposed project will come from central and state government’s grants as well as other sources and projects. The goal of the Smart City proposal is to develop Rajkot as a smart, liveable city and with sustainable development. It will also leverage the city’s historical strengths and provide a state-of-the-art infrastructure,” Pani said.
 
 “Our goals are to provide 24-hour water supply, a safe and secure city with smart traffic management, solve mobility issues, make the city most energy efficient with affordable housing for all,” the RMC commissioner added.
 
 The civic body has proposed four projects under the area based development which includes greenfield development (New Race Course), Retrofitting-Transit Oriented Zone along the BRTS corridor, slum redevelopment and river rejuvenation and retrofitting 500 acre around the current Race Course. 
 
 Under the pan city initiatives, RMC has proposed five projects — smart electricity, water supply, waste water and storm water drainage, solid waste management and sanitation.
 
 RMC has selected the Raiya area in the western part of the city for area based development plan and it is spread over 250 acre. “In this plan, RMC plans to develop the greenfield project with corporate offices, educational institutions, conventional centre, skill centre, recreational area and an exhibition centre among others.
 
