NEW DELHI: With BJP leader Venkaiah Naidu’s elevation as Vice-President, the stage is set for a significant reshuffle of the Modi ministry with younger leaders in line for promotions and a possible reality check for some ministers.

 Naidu will vacate the housing and urban affairs (Mo-HUA) and information and broadcasting (I&B) portfolios. The HUA portfolio has crucial political implications as it drives policies such as sanitation and urban renewal that have a direct and major public connect. The integration of Swachh Bharat campaign with municipal governance has an important bearing for the government’s image as it impacts daily lives of citizens.
 
 Naidu’s replacement will be one of several important decisions that PM   will take in consultation with BJP chief Amit Shah after the current monsoon session of Parliament concludes on August 11.
 
 A reshuffle has been due for quite some time. PM gave additional charge of defence ministry to finance minister   on March 14 after   quit to become the chief minister of Goa. Both finance and defence are considered ministries with a “heavy workload” and their incumbents are members of the cabinet committee on security. In fact, soon after BJP swept the 2014 general elections, Jaitley was given additional charge of defence and later Parrikar was inducted as defence minister.
 
 In May this year, science and technology minister   was given additional charge of the environment and forest ministry after BJP leader Anil Madhav Dave passed away. The department is seen to require a full time minister to take charge of the politically sensitive portfolio that is often in the crosshairs of activists as well as Sangh parivar outfits on issues ranging from GM crops to pollution control.
 
 Some of the better performing ministers in the government will hope for an upgrade to either Cabinet status or more important portfolios. It is also likely that about half a dozen portfolios that are seen to have been operating at a sub-par level will come in for a hard look. Sources said that government would have to fill at least half a dozen vacancies in Raj Bhavans in near future, which will pave way for graceful placement of a few seniors in the government.
 
 The last Cabinet reshuffle in last July saw 19 new ministers being inducted. HRD minister Smriti Irani was moved to textiles and Sadananda Gowda to the statistics ministry from law. Noted journalist M J Akbar was inducted as minister of state for external affairs.
 
 The Modi government has completed three years of its five-year term and may feel the need to induct fresh faces to bolster key ministries. As per convention, governments have avoided restructuring when Parliament is in session.
 
 
 
