PANAJI: A splash of vibrant hues painted the state capital against the penetrating shine of the summer sun as day one of the Goa carnival rolled out in Panaji on Saturday.

 The Goa carnival entered its golden jubilee and as a tribute, the first King Momo, Timoteo Fernandes, was felicitated at the hands of chief secretary Dharmendra Sharma.
 
 Incorporating the motif of decorative masks, King Momo's float had details of gold and blue. Feathered decor gave the float a throne- like appearance while sentinels skirted the fortress atop which the king, dressed in his flamboyant best, waved out to the public.
 
 "This year's carnival was much better managed compared to the previous years. More importantly it started on time," said Devyani Paidarkar, a housewife.
 
 Dressed in a white ensemble, aboard King Momo’s float, singer Sonia Shirsat opened the event with a performance called ‘Goencho Carnaval’ accompanied by Joe D’Costa. Following Kong Momo's entry, a float dedicated to the state's Indian Super League team, FC Goa drove into the parade. A massive football was installed as the barnacle of this float, while dancers aboard dressed in the jersey distributed FC Goa merchandise among cheering spectators.
 
 Social messages also made their presence felt as participants used the platform to spread awareness about various issues. While the the   informed about financial literacy week, another tableau urged to save the girl child while few others, to save Goa's mountain terrains and wildlife. Some floats also showcased rural Goa, displaying the tedious process of urrak preparation, farming etc.
 
  said, "Having lived in the city all these years, my children don't know how urrak is made, or how the fisherfolk throw their net. Even though these are activities I grew up watching, for my kids it's nothing short of fascination. The carnival was, therefore, a good way to show them what we really experienced in the hinterlands.”
 
 Throwing focus on the migrant population in the state, a tableau showcased the efforts of the working class in building and construction. Shaming the act of animal cruelty, another float showcased an aggressive bull fight being brought to a stop with the intervention of Goa police, thus bringing forth a theatrical approach to the tableaus.
 
 “Certain socio-political issues were highlighted through some floats which is a good thing,” Devyani added.
 
 The influence of the TV-series Game of Thrones was also seen as floats carrying dragons, both stationary installations as well as tech-animated and smoke spewing ones, surfed through the sea of spectators.
 
 It was a nostalgic trip down memory lane for many of the young adults in the audience as old cartoon characters, like Tom and Jerry, Donald Duck, Winnie the Pooh and Snoopy Dog made an appearance. The more recent characters from popular culture, like minions kept young ones entertained.
 
 A mix of both folk, Konkani and electronic dance music resonated through the parade in accompaniment to these floats.
 
 Anuja Gulwadi, who brought her eight-year old daughter along, said, “There was something for both adults and kids at this carnival. There is so much dedication in making an artwork for the festival. It is this effort behind the making of these floats that I wanted my daughter to see.”
 
