HOWRAH: Recovery of the mutilated body of a 45-year-old bank executive, accused of laundering banned 1,000- and 500- rupee notes, from the railway tracks in Howrah has got the police wondering whether he was actually guilty or made a scapegoat. Based on a complaint by his wife, the GRP are also trying to ascertain whether   committed suicide or was murdered.

 Chowdhury was a business initiator at the Uluberia branch of Union Bank of India. Around 9.30pm on Friday, his body was recovered from the tracks between the Uluberia and Phuleswar. It was suspected that he was run over by an Up Panskura local that passed the spot a few minutes ago. Chowdhury, a resident of Baniban in Uluberia, had left home around 3pm.
 
 On Thursday, local businessman Somnath Ghosh had lodged a complaint against him at the Uluberia police station. Ghosh claimed that he received a notice from the   recently, accusing him of depositing Rs 35 lakh in his account in banned 1,000- and 500- rupee notes in December. The businessman claimed that he did get Rs 35 lakh deposited into his account in December through Chowdhury but the currency notes he handed over were of Rs 100 denomination. He accused Chowdhury of converting these notes into the scrapped denominations before depositing them into his account. Ghosh claimed that he got the money deposited through Chowdhury. 
 
 After receiving the complaint, the police initiated a probe and also called up Chowdhury. According to his wife Kabita, Chowdhury didn’t go to work on Friday. Around 3pm, he received a call from the bank manager and left home on his motorcycle. After 9.30pm, she received a call from the police, informing her of the recovery of her husband’s body, Kabita claimed. Chowdhury’s widow also told the police of a Facebook post that her husband made at 9.02pm on Friday in which he claimed that he was not only falsely accused of laundering banned currency notes but also made to admit his guilt in writing. Later on Saturday evening, an FIR was lodged against Ghosh, his manager, the bank branch manager and the cashier.
 
 “On Tuesday, Ghosh went to the bank and met the manager. In the manager’s presence, my husband was forced to sign a document in which he admitted that he had converted Rs 100 currency notes into Rs 1,000 and Rs 500 ones. Since that day, my husband was not his usual self. I don’t believe that my husband committed suicide. He had parked his bike outside the bank branch and his body was recovered from the railway tracks two kilometres away. Had he wanted to commit suicide, why would he walk that distance. There is foul play involved,” Kabita said.
 
 According to Sumit Kumar, SP (Rural), Howrah, Ghosh’s complaint will be probed to find out whether his version was true. Amit Kumar Singh, superintendent of railway police (Kharagpur), said that his team would visit the bank on Monday and speak to the manager as well as study CCTV footage to find out what actually occurred on Friday.
 
