NOIDA: The Noida Authority on Saturday rejected the   for   submitted by 14 developers. These include 12 group housing and four commercial projects. 

 According to officials, these   have not fulfilled the laid-down criteria for completion and had allegedly filed their applications in haste to keep themselves out of the ambit of   (Rera). The Real Estate (Regulation & Development) Act, 2016, came into force on May 1, 2017.
 
 The Act requires developers to get all ongoing as well as under-construction projects that have not received completion certificate, registered with regulatory authorities within three months, ie, by the end of July.
 
 According to Noida Authority officials, the completion certificate is issued by the authority to certify that the real estate project has been developed as per the sanctioned plan, layout plan and specifications, as approved under the local laws. The certificate is proof that the particular housing project is complete in all respects and ready for living. Having this certificate also means that the building has not violated any rules and norms or diverted from the plan and layout, which were approved before starting the construction, officials said.
 
 “We have found that all the 14 projects have not complied with all our laid-down norms for obtaining completion certificate and are incomplete in some respect or the other. This was found after our planning department conducted a scrutiny of nearly 100 applications,” said A K Rai, additional CEO, Noida Authority. “Hence, we have rejected the applications and asked the developer to make the changes or complete the remaining work before reapplying for the document. These projects will be considered ‘ongoing’ and developers will have to register themselves with Rera,” he explained.
 
 “The 14 builders whose applications were rejected include Amrapali with projects in Sector 45 and 76, Assotech’s in Sector 44, AIIMS Max Gardenia in sectors 46 and 75, Antriksh in sector 78, I V County in Sector 121, Today Homes in Sector 135 and Logix in Sector 143. The commercial projects include Supertech’s projects in sectors 94 and 96 and Wave’s in sectors 18, 25A and 32,” he said.
 
 “If the cancellations have been done on the ground of major lapses on the part of builder, it could be a needful step. But if the entire building is ready and only a small lapse is found then the authority should give the builder a short grace period of 15 days so that they can complete it and re-apply for completion. Outright rejection of application is not the right solution,” said Amit Modi, member, governing council, Credai, NCR.
 
