CHENNAI: The   has asked the state government not to compel school teachers recruited before November 15, 2011, to clear the Teacher Eligibility Test scheduled for April 29 and 30, and not to insist on an undertaking from them that they would quit service in case they fail.

 Justice T Raja, giving the relief to three teachers who moved the HC against circular, pointed out that a division bench of the HC had already made it clear teachers appointed after the cut-off date would be covered by the GO and would get one opportunity to appear and clear the TET. “The question of appearing for TET will arise only for teachers who joined subsequent to GO dated November15, 2011. As per orders of the division bench dated January 24, 2017 it is made clear that teachers appointed subsequent to the GO are granted one opportunity to appear for TET to be conducted by  ,“ said Justice Raja. “In the event of them passing the TET, their appointment shall be approved, [or] they have no other option but to quitbe ousted from service. Hence the director of elementary education cannot call upon petitioners who joined service prior to the November 15, 2011 GO,“ said Justice Raja.
 
 The petitioners, M   and S Sudha, joined service in January 2011, before the GO took effect.
 
 On March 1, the director of school education issued a circular asking schools to inform all teachers to take the TET and take an undertaking from them that if they failed the TET their appointments could be terminated. Five writ petitions have so far been filed that challenge the director's circular.
 
 When the court took up the cases for hearing on Tuesday, additional government pleader P   said the education department would not use force to obtain an undertaking from the petitioners to take the TET on April 29 and 30. Recording the submissions, the judge said: “It is made clear that authorities shall not compel the petitioners to appear for the TET examinations.“
 
 “There shall be an order of interim stay of the impugned communication dated March 1, 2017, sent by the director of school education,“ the judge said.
 
