BENGALURU: Leggie  's   journey has been topsy-turvy. A 13-match, 11-wicket effort in 2013 - his debut season - was followed by a rich reward as he became the most expensive domestic uncapped player the following year, with Hyderabad doling out Rs. 3.75 crore.

 He collected 15 wickets from 14 outings that season, but his   career went downhill thereafter, especially last season where he finished five matches without a wicket.
 
 But   clearly believed in him. At Rs 3.2 crore he was their costliest buy of the season and he has served the team well, with 13 wickets from eight matches at an economy rate of 7.35. Four of those wickets have come at a crucial juncture, the Qualifier 2, in which Mumbai knocked out Kolkata Knight Riders with a dominant all-round show.
 
 Picked ahead of veteran spinner  , the 29-year-old Railways allrounder was keenly watched. Kolkata batsmen's selection of shots was amateurish at best, and they played into the traps set by  's men. Cashing in on the weakness of the far-from-alert Kolkata batsmen, Karn bowled at the stumps, which helped him claim three of the four wickets on the night.
 
 The Uttar Pradesh-born bowler said the start made all the difference after Kolkata were reduced to 3-25 in the first 32 balls."T20 is all about momentum. We started well in the first six overs. It wasn't like the Bangalore wicket of before and it worked for us. We bowled well from the start and got wickets in the middle. That was important," he pointed out.
 
 Karn hasn't been a certainty in the line-up throughout the season. His first break came in the match against Rising Pune Supergiant on April 24 when he replaced an injured  .
 
 "It is good for me because I just work hard when I'm not playing. When I get a chance, the main motive is to perform for the team. That's more important for me."
 
 Karn is confident that his team will leave Hyderabad with the trophy. "We are fully prepared and will win the final. The previous losses are in the past," signed off a confident Karn.
 
 
