BHOPAL/BANKURA: Akansha Sharma’s life was cut short just one step away from her flight to freedom. Having seen through Udyan Das’ lies, she had booked a train ticket on July 12 last year but was probably murdered a day or two later when Udyan found out she planned to dump him, say Bengal police. And the grisly tomb was made before — not after the murder, say cops.

 The latest revelations fit in with Bankura police theory that Udyan committed the three murders for gain, in a cold and calculated manner, rather than in fits of rage. “We have evidence that leads us to believe Udyan murdered her on July 15 — the day she was to board the train. He throttled her to death after getting a mason to build a half-finished altar between July 12 and July 15,” said an officer. Sources say police got this lead from Akansha’s bank account that shows an  .
 
 “It seems Akansha found out that Udyan was never in the US. She got desperate to return home. It is also possible that she had found out about the murders (of his parents). It was around the same time that the Rs 1.20 lakh in Akansha’s account was withdrawn in three quick attempts. It indicates the murder was planned,” said a source, adding that they will pinpoint the motive in a couple of days. Bengal police have custody of Udyan till February 15 and Raipur police are already in line to seek his custody in connection with his parents’ murder.
 
 Police confirmed that for all his talk about working in the US, Udyan had never set foot on American soil. “He has, however, claimed through his passport that he visited other countries after killing his parents and starting occasional live-ins with Akansha from 2014. Akansha and Udyan had been visiting each other since 2012,” said an officer, adding that considering the lengths the suspect has gone to forge documents, they will have the visa documents \verified.
 
 The first time Udyan travelled abroad was to Singapore, between December 12 and December 29, 2011. The next year, he flew to Vietnam between January 22 and January 25. And a year later, he wanted to celebrate his birthday in a grand manner but could not raise enough money. He had to settle for Moscow and landed there on April 23, 2013. He returned just 48 hours later on April 25, after celebrating his birthday on April 24, say police.
 
 Police sources hinted they will soon travel to Raipur and Bhopal to follow up certain leads. “At present, we are waiting for Raipur police to come here. Two FIRs have been filed against him there — for the murder of his parents and for faking their death certificates, especially his mother’s, which he then used to sell off their Raipur house,” said an officer.
 
 Sources said that Bengal police will look into certain bank transactions made by Udyan in Raipur and Bhopal. “It seems he withdrew around Rs 20 lakh from the account of his father, which we believe was his father’s pension. He might have used the money to buy the Mercedes and Honda City cars he claims to own. The City seems to be registered with a woman from Janakpuri in Delhi. All these connections will be investigated. Another team will visit the homes of Udyan’s uncles in Howrah and Salt Lake to gather more information about him,” said an officer.
 
 Speaking about the interrogation, an officer said that over the past few days they were amazed by how shrewd Udyan is. He seems talkative and chatty but measures every word carefully and is always on the lookout to mislead investigators, say sources. “Udyan has been speaking a lot in the past 12 hours of questioning regarding his likes and his ‘childhood miseries’. However, he has stopped answering questions on why he killed Akansha or the exact methods he adopted to conceal the murder. He is turning out to be a very calculative customer. It just proves that he carried out the murders in cold blood and in a calculated murder,” said an investigator.
 
 The idea of being separated from Akansha didn’t go down well with Udyan, say police. Criminologist Rajat Mitra had earlier told TOI how people like Udyan develop extremely intense relationships and cannot let go. For them, it can end only in death, he said. Akansha had perhaps found that the “call letter” for a trainee apprentice with   in New York was fake, say police. “He was also taking money from her. She was disillusioned and wanted to go back home after which he decided to murder her. He didn’t want to be separated from her,” said Bankura SP Sukhendu Hira.
 
 Bankura police have found out that Udyan has a hearing problem in his right ear — which throw his tall tales of being a MiG 29 pilot out of the window. The ear drum of his right ear got punctured during a Diwali night in childhood. He was clearing his ear with a matchstick when a cracker went off near him and he ended up piercing his ear drum, said a cop.
 
 
