Vadodara: Lifeline Foundation on Sunday kicked off the project to provide training in first aid and cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) to the officials of Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC). 

 Under this ambitious project which is part of the ‘Vadodara – a smart city, a CPR city’ initiative of the foundation, 10,000 VMC employees will be trained over the next one year. 
 
 Vadodara mayor Bharat Dangar inaugurated the bystander CPR training programme for VMC staff at GMERS Medical College, Gotri which is supporting the project by providing venue for training. 
 
 The foundation aims at training 40 % of physically fit and literate individuals above the age of 15 years. The training will be provided over a period of one year on all Sundays and selected Saturdays. Two hundred officials will be trained in a day. VMC has passed Rs ten lakh for meeting the expenses of training its staff. The project is the brainchild of Shukanto Das, son of Dr Subroto Das, the managing trustee and CEO of Lifeline Foundation, who was recently conferred Padma Shree. 
 
 “Additional funding for the project will be provided by ONGC under the stewardship of Arun Kumar, basin in-charge of ONGC,” said Das. 
 
 “The trainings will lay emphasis on rigorous hands-on sessions in order to ensure that participants learn how to identify and response to emergencies in real-time situations,” he said. 
 
 VMC is the first municipal corporation in Gujarat to appreciate the significance of building capacity of its officials to respond to life-threatening emergencies and make Vadodara a CPR city, meaning a city where its citizens are prepared to tackle emergencies. 
 
 The foundation, known by its helpline number 98250 26000, has already trained 2,000 citizens of city including industrial and non-industrial officials, teachers, housewives and students in this project so far. 
 
 The initiative has been taken up considering the fact 4,280 of one lakh persons in India die due to cardiac arrests. This is in addition to the deaths caused by a variety of injuries or illness, including electrical shock, road accident injuries, and heart-attacks and drowning. 
 
 
