CHANDIGARH: Taking up the petition filed by Congress  , seeking directions to   laundering case registered by Enforcement Directorate (ED) in relation to the Associated Journals Limited (AJL), the Punjab and   on Wednesday issued notice to the central agency seeking its response on the issue.

 A division bench comprising Chief Justice Shiavax Jal Vazifdar and Justice Anupinder Singh Grewal also asked the ED to reply as to why use of any coercive method, including arrest of Vora, should not be stayed in the case.
 
 The bench, however, turned down the request of senior advocate Kapil Sibal for immediate stay on Vora’s arrest in this case. Arguing before the bench, Sibal stated that case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) couldn’t be registered in this case because there was no criminal activity on part of the petitioner, who is treasurer of All India Congress Committee (AICC). He said the plot was restored by the state and AJL had made payment as per the fee sought by the authorities for restoration charges.
 
 He stated that Vora had been unnecessarily harassed for extraneous reasons and was interrogated by ED for seven hours continuously despite the fact that he was extremely unwell. The case would now come up for further hearing on May 23.
 
 The 86-year-old leader, who was recently questioned by ED along with former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, is chairman-cum-managing director of AJL.
 
 Founded by former Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, AJL is reportedly controlled by senior Congress leaders, including the Gandhi family, through Young India Limited.
 
 On July 15, 2016, ED had registered the Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) in relation to the controversy. In October 2016, the agency had issued notice to Vora regarding investigation of the case. ED suspected that Haryana Urban Development Authority (Huda) abused its discretionary powers to grant out-of-turn favours, illegal extensions and concessions to AJL during the Hooda-led Congress regime in Haryana.
 
 The CBI had also registered a case in the matter on April 6, 2017, against Hooda, who was the ex-officio chairman of Huda, and others. CBI is yet to complete the probe.
 
 The entire controversy pertains to plot number C-17 in Sector 6 of Panchkula, which was allotted by Huda to AJL in 1982. It was taken back by Huda in 1992 as no construction had been done on it for 10 years. The appeal and revision filed by AJL against resumption of plot were also dismissed by Huda administrator and Haryana’s financial commissioner (town and country planning) in 1995 and 1996 respectively. However, when Hooda become the chief minister in 2005, he had allowed reallotment of the plot to AJL.
 
 After Manohar Lal Khattar came into power in October 2014, an FIR was registered by the state vigilance bureau into alleged irregularities in the allotment “causing huge financial loss to Huda”.
 
