HARIDWAR: In Laksar constituency of Haridwar district, the scale seems to be tilted towards the   party which has pitted Tasleem Ahmed — a former BSP MLA who won in 2002 and 2007 — against BJP’s Sanjai Gupta, who defeated the former with a margin of 10,000 in the last elections, in this Muslim-dominated segment.
 
  Ahmed joined Congress on January 22, two days before he was declared nominee for the seat, and his hope of victory hinges on nearly 30,000 Muslim and 22,000 Harijan voters in this thinly populated constituency with 95,000 voters — minimum among all assembly seats in this district.
  
  Besides, works undertaken by him during his two terms as BSP MLA, his reputation with voters and anti-incumbency factor working against Gupta too will work to Ahmed’s advantage, believe keen political observers.
  
  On the other hand, BJP rebel Kushal Pal Saini, who has jumped into the fray as an Independent, is making things further worse for Gupta.
  
  However, talking about pressing issues in his constituency, Gupta said, “The greatest problem that people of Laksar face is flood, which affects nearly 78,000 bighas. Floods destroyed crops and disrupted life on a large scale in 2010 and 2013, but the Congress-led state government gave them no relief either in terms of compensation or exemption from repayment of loans.”
  
  “This apart, poor healthcare and education facilities, unavailability of drinking water, bad-shaped roads and construction of river bridges, which are pending for over a decade, are among other problems that people have to deal with,” said Gupta, alleging that the Rawat government meted out indifferent treatment to Laksar.
  
  “Former chief minister   had granted Rs 5 crore for the development of Laksar, but the grant was stopped after releasing Rs 3 crore. People have been demanding a bus station for years, but to no avail,” he further alleged.
  
  Gupta claimed that he got two bridges constructed at costs of Rs 3 crore and 92 lakh on Pathri and Van Ganga rivers, respectively. “A third bridge on the Ganga is under construction at an estimated cost of Rs.3 crore. At Panchauli village, a ghat near a temple was built at a cost of Rs.1.5 crore,” he added.
  
  Though Gupta stakes credit for all these works, Javed, a resident of Sultanpur, which is also Gupta’s native place, said, “He remained inaccessible when needed, and hardly helped us.”
  
  Ahmed however, said, “Voters in nearly 25 villages, which were carved out of the Laldhang constituency after delimitation, and Laksar know me well.” However, he admitted that he was defeated in 2012, because of split in Muslim and Harijan votes between him and Tahir Ali, now a Congress rebel.
  
  After being fielded by the Congress, Ahmed now hopes to get votes from all communities, including Saini (14,000 votes), Chauhan (6,000), Gujar (6,000), Vaishya (5,000) and Brahmins (2,000), besides Muslims and Harijans.
  
  Ahmed said if elected, he would primarily work to deal with flood problems, poor roads and unsafe drinking water. “Laksar is the most underdeveloped area as far as education and health facilities are considered. Setting up more educational institutions and hospitals will also be the party’s priority,” he added.
