KOCHI: A day after the Delhi   Rail Corporation ( ) principal advisor E Sreedharan conducted an inspection of the Metro rail, the Metro agency carried out a trial run for the first time to Aluva. 

 A metro train with three coaches chugged out from Muttom Yard to Aluva. Aluva is the first station on the   route. The train then returned from Aluva all the way to Palarivattom covering a distance of 13km. The trial run was conducted on both the tracks.
 
 "Initially, the train moved at a slow speed and then it gathered momentum," said a DMRC spokesperson. He said the trial runs will continue for about a month. There are 11 stations between Aluva and Palarivattom. The stations are at Aluva, Pulinchodu, Companypady, Ambattukavu, Muttom, Kalamassery, Cochin University, Pathadipalam, Edapally, Changampuzha Park and Palarivattom.
 
 However, as there was no prior information, regarding the trial run, local residents were surprised to see the metro training moving above the viaduct.
 
 "It was unexpected. My boss, who has a shop in Pulinchuvadu, rang me up to tell that the Metro was passing through our area. It reached here at around 5pm. People crowded along the sides of the streets and took pictures," said one Sunny, who runs a travel agency at Aluva.
 
 However, many councillors of   expressed disappointment as they had no prior information on the trail run. "Most of us were busy with routine affairs. We came to know about it from the local residents and the media," said PM Moosakutty, councillor representing the Market Ward. Pulinchuvadu councillor Jebi Mather Hisham also expressed similar sentiments. "We were unable to follow the developments of Kochi Metro," she said.
 
 Earlier, Kochi Metro's trial runs were conducted between Muttom Yard and Palarivattom. "It was a manual trial run. The updated software for signalling will be ready in February. It will take one-and-a-half to two months for the signalling systems to become completely functioning," said a   spokesperson.
 
 
