NAGPUR: Prominent doctors across the state were raided by income tax department on Saturday suspecting major evasion of tax through cash deals. One of the basis of the raid was a host of complaints received by sleuths against the medical practitioners. The complaints were generally about expensive treatment at the hospitals in cash with no bills issued against it.

 In Nagpur, the taxmen have covered premises belonging to three doctors which include two neuro physicians and a cardiologist apart from one of their managers. A couple of doctors have been covered in Akola city too, said sources.
 
 The doctors in Nagpur include — Dr Chandrashekhkar Pakhmore and Dr  , who are partners in the   at Dhantoli and Dr   who heads the   at nearby Congress Nagar.
 
 The number of doctors raided in Nagpur is second to that in Pune where eight have been covered, taking it to 16 assesses in all. The search was planned on a Saturday so that the surgeries and other procedures which are usually planned on a weekday are not disturbed. Other cities were the raids were conducted are, Solapur, Kolhapur, and Sangli. 
 
 The search is not directly linked with the actions which followed demonetisation but unaccounted cash receipts are suspected to be unearthed during the action.
 
 There were complaints that doctors have been charging huge amounts in cash with bills not being issued to the patients. Cash payments were insisted from the patients’ relatives by the doctors throughout the state.
 
 It was also reported that even the patients covered under government schemes were charged over and above the eligible amount. The excess amount was received in cash and not recorded in the books as the bills were not issued, said sources.
 
 This is the second major action on a specific business. Last month the taxmen covered jewellers across the state. Six jewellers from the city were covered in the action. This was a fallout of the action carried out on the basis of information collected during the note-ban period. The income tax department has got a disclosure of Rs30 crore from the action against jewellers.
 
