MUMBAI: Four Parel residents have been arrested in connection with the death of well-known gastroenterologist   who fell into an   manhole and drowned on August 29 when heavy rain lashed the city. The doctor’s body was found in Worli two days later.

 Dadar police booked Siddesh Bhelsekar (25), Rakesh Kadam (38), his younger brother Nilesh and Dinaar Pawar (36) under IPC Section 304(A) which pertains to causing death by negligence. Sources said the four men, who live in a nearby chawl, had opened the   to drain out the rainwater that was flooding their homes.
 
 “We recorded statements of several persons and learned that these four men, in a bid to flush out the floodwater from their homes, had opened the manhole near Suparsh building on Senapati Bapat Road,” said a police officer. “They are not authorized to open a manhole. Also, they did not place a warning board to indicate that the manhole was open. This proves negligence on their part.”
 
 Assistant commissioner of police (Dadar division) Sunil Deshmukh confirmed four men were arrested on Saturday and sent to judicial custody for seven days by Bhoiwada metropolitan magistrate’s court as their identification parade is likely to be held next week inside Arthur Road jail.
 
 To prove their case in court, an identification parade is mandatory, an officer said.
 
 On August 29, Amrapurkar was returning home from Bombay Hospital when his car got stuck in traffic as floodwater started rising on Senapati Bapat Marg. He got out of the car and told his driver that would walk home, a stone’s throw away.
 
 A few eyewitnesses said they saw a man walking on the road and suddenly disappear where a manhole lid was removed by some locals to drain out the floodwater. Some of them even tried to alert the doctor, but he probably couldn’t hear them. Amrapurkar’s umbrella got stuck in the mouth of the manhole. It was later identified by his family.
 
 
 
 Two days later, Amrapurkar’s body was recovered at the other end of the sewage pipeline in Worli after multiple disaster management agencies launched a massive search operation. His colleagues identified the body from his wristwatch.
 
 BMC commissioner had directed additional municipal commissioner Vijay Singhal to probe the incident, but BMC denied that its staffers had left the manhole open.
 
 The prime minister office (PMO) had also written to state chief secretary Sumit Mallick asking the state government to upload the report of inquiry after the Indian Medical Association wrote to PMO and the chief minister holding BMC responsible for Amrapurkar’s death.
 
 The arrest assumes significance as the Bombay high court had come down heavily on the issue of open manholes after advocate Ashish Mehta filed a public interest litigation on the issue demanding an FIR be registered under IPC Section 304A (causing death by negligence). Mehta had sought Rs 50 lakh compensation from the BMC to any charitable institution or NGO working for the welfare of the city, and wanted the authorities to fix accountability for the gross negligence. Chief Justice Chellur had asked the petitioner to lodge an FIR if he wanted an investigation.
 
 
