NASHIK: The Bombay   has sought an explanation from the   whether it is permissible to use a plate with a writing of ‘Zilla Mantri of Vishwa Hindu Parishad’ on a vehicle.

 The court of   made the observation during the hearing of an   plea of Tanveer Khan Khalil Khan hailing from Malegaon in Nashik district. 
 
 On February 14, a group of cow vigilante intercepted a van ferrying cattle at about 4am and accused them of transporting the animals for slaughter. The cow vigilante group led by Subhash Malu and Machhindra Govind Shirke and others allegedly assaulted Shaikh Farukh Shaikh Shakeel and Shaikh Farid Shaikh Abdul Rahim.
 
 The latter lodged a complaint against Malu, Shirke and others at the Malegaon taluka police station under different sections of the Indian Penal Code. Malu too lodged a complaint against Shakeel and Rahim at the same police station under the provisions of the Maharashtra Animal Preservation (Amendment) Act, 1995.
 
 Later that day, Shirke was allegedly assaulted by some youths hailing from the minority community between 11:45am to noon. He alleged that Tanveer Khan Khalil Khan was one of them and filed a complaint at Chhavani Police Station against the group. Police arrested seven persons and all of them, excluding one, are in judicial custody.
 
 Though Khan’s name does not figure in the FIR, he filed an anticipatory bail application in the sessions court at Malegaon, which was rejected. After this, Khan filed an anticipatory bail application in the Bombay high court. 
 
 Shaikh Ejaaz Noormohammed, the advocate appearing for Khan, said that when the high court went through the investigation papers during the hearing on May 2, it came across the photographs of the vehicle owned by Shirke. It showed that the vehicle had a plate stating that he was Zilla Mantri of  . 
 
 The court directed the government to verify and disclose on the next date whether such plates are permissible on vehicle and if not, what action the police propose to take. The court also directed the police to produce the certificate to ascertain whether Shirke is an animal welfare officer or not, said Noormohammed.
 
 The HC has granted Khan anticipatory bail with the condition that he has to be present at the police station as and when required. The next date of hearing is on June 12.
 
