NAGPUR: Karthik Jha, a  , has been   for nearly six months. On Saturday, he shared his poems ‘Mother’,   for the first time with an audience. “It was scary,” he says, adding, “But once I started reading it, I felt motivated. It was good to have a platform like this one,” he said. 

 Jha, along with several youngsters of his age group had assembled for Nagpur’s first open mic poetry event, held at Chaos Theory, Dharampeth.
 
 “It was nice to see budding poets like me at the event,” said  , a commerce student, who has been into poetry for over a year now. “I was a bit nervous, but the crowd was welcoming, which made things easy. Events like these don’t usually happen in Nagpur,” she added. 
 
 Swarup Bhartiya, a content writer, earned the loudest claps for his Hindi poetry. “I used to share my work among my friends. But it was motivating to see that people here appreciated it. I will make it a point to write more and become a regular at this event,” he said. Sumit Prithyani, a working professional, says the event helped him overcome the fear of expressing himself. For most of the poets at the event, it was the first time they had read out their work in front of an audience.
 
 Organized by Rhyme and Reason, an informal group of music enthusiasts, the idea of open mic poetry had been due since some months, informs founder Harshel Rao. “Along with sharing our poetry, we will also discuss the life and work of a great poet every month,” he adds.
 
 The venue had a round table and chair in front, surrounded by several chairs. The poets came one by one to share their poetry, in Hindi or English. 
 
 The organizers then turned to the second segment and chose celebrated poet Sahir Ludhianvi as the poet in-focus. Ludhianvi’s life, work, and popular songs were shared among the group. The monthly meet will progress in this format, says Rao.
 
 Chaos Theory is a co-working space started by marketing professional Sukhada Chaudhary. “The city does have an audience for events which enhance and boost one’s creativity. But there is lack of initiatives. We’ve tried to take the initiative and create a platform,” she said.
 
