VADODARA: From a dismal 232 rank on   front in 2009-10, the city has consistently improved its ranking to figure amongst the top 10 cleanest cities in the country. 

 In the Swachh Survekshan-2017 rankings announced on Thursday, Vadodara ranked 10 amongst all 434 cities and towns that were surveyed and ninth amongst the 72 cities with a million plus population. The improvement has largely become possible with involvement of prominent citizens, voluntary organizations and opinion makers in the attempt to maintain cleanliness in the city. It has started helplines to take care of garbage and has patrols on electric vehicles and pedal rickshaws to pick up garbage from the streets. Sources said that major contributors to the ranking were strategy for open defecation free town, solid waste management system and use of communication tools to create awareness.
 
 The civic body also started extensive cleaning of the city in the night. To take care of the litter and debris left around in the city over a period of time, officials were asked to supervise cleanliness till late in the night. Even senior officials who had no connection with maintenance of cleanliness in the city were roped in for duty. The city was ranked a poor 232 under the urban sanitation policy in 2009-10. It improved its ranking slightly in the Swachh Survekshan rankings in 2014 when it finished at the number 214. 
 
 In 2016, Rajkot had fared much better ranking seventh. This time around, Vadodara pipped Rajkot that slipped to the eighteenth position amongst all 434 cities and towns that were surveyed and to the fourteenth position amongst 72 million plus cities surveyed.
 
 Mayor Bharat Dangar said that a series of programmes like cleanliness competitions, cleanest Ganpati pandal contest, felicitation of sanitary workers, spreading the message of cleanliness through various events and other steps had contributed to the consistent improvement in ranking of the city on the cleanliness front. Dangar said that the city had obtained 1,703 points in the survey conducted in January.
 
