UNNAO: Even as voters prepared to cast votes in 73 seats of communally sensitive western UP in the first phase of Assembly election to be held on Saturday, BJP national president   raked up the issue of cow slaughter again, saying “all slaughterhouses across the state will be banned from the night of March 12“. Counting of votes in UP will be held on March 11.
Though the BJP had promised in its manifesto for UP that all illegal slaughterhouses will be closed if the party comes to power, it is for the first time that Shah has declared that all slaughterhouses will be shut down.
 
 Incidentally, scores of slaughterhouses are spread all over Unnao where the BJP boss was addressing an election meeting on Friday.
 
 Shah attacked Congress leader   and SP president and UP chief minister   while terming them as `shehzaade' (princes). “These days, two `shehzade' have joined hands. You are seeing them, both are on TV these days, but they won't come to your village. `Ek se uski maa pareshan hai, to doosre se uska baap pareshan, aur in dono se poora UPA pareshan hai' (While mother of one is worried over him, the second has his father worries... and the whole UPA is fed up with the duo),“ Shah said. Attacking SP's slogan `Kaam bolta hai' (work speaks), Shah asked: “They have not been able to deliver even Metro.“
 
 “Yes, they excel in only one thing.Every day, 13 murders and 24 cases of rape take place in the state. Everyday, 300 cases of dacoityrobbery, besides 150 cases of ransomkidnapping take place. This is one field in which Akhilesh Babu's slogan `kaam bolta hai' fits,“ Shah said amid a loud cheer from the crowd.
 
 On SP-Congress alliance, Shah accused the latter of opportunism.“When the Congress started the campaign, it was with `27 saal UP behaal' (UP suffering for 27 years). Now, after the alliance it has changed its view. Now he (Rahul) has deducted 10 years from the total of 27,“ he said.
 
 Shah also attacked BSP chief  , saying, “BJP, which has been out of power in UP for 15 years, must end the rule of `bhateeja' (Akhilesh) and `bua' (aunt) to save UP.“
 
 In response to Rahul's question as to what the Modi government had done for the people so far, Shah said: “I want to tell him, these are not Lok Sabha but assembly elections. Let 2019 Lok Sabha elections come, BJP will give you every detail about its work during its five-year rule,“ Shah claimed.
 
