PUDUCHERRY: Three outgoing students of Centre for South Asian Studies,   - Mahendra Kumar Solanki, Awanish Kumar Gupta and S Monika, who sent complaints of academic and administrative malpractices in the centre to the Union human resource development ministry and Prime Minister's office, charged that the university had victimized them for ‘exposing’ the sorry state of affairs of the centre.

 Mahendra from Rajasthan cleared entrance examinations for admission into postgraduate programme in library and information science for the academic year 2017-18. He was placed fifth under the other backward classes’ category that had seven seats. He claimed that the university denied him admission as he had sent several complaints to the authorities concerned on academic and administrative malpractices.
 
 “I reached the department of library and information science at 1pm on June 29. I received an email from the registrar within a few minutes declaring that why university should not impose punishment on me for sending complaints on the appointment of centre head, attendance rules, non-conduct of classes and discrimination of Indian students at the centre. The department denied seats after registrar’s notice,” said Mahendra.
 
 However, associate professor and head of the department of library science R Sevukan said the candidate (Mahendra) came to the department and got his certificates verified but did not attend the counselling to seek admission. “The candidate did not attend counselling. I learnt that he came and left after getting his certificates verified. He did not attend counselling to seek admission. Registrar’s office also sought a clarification in this regard and we have clarified the issue,” Sevukan said.
 
 Awanish from Uttar Pradesh said the university has launched all efforts to prevent him from joining PhD at the department of international relations and politics. He secured 185 marks in the PhD entrance examinations and was placed first in the other backward classes’ category that had just one seat. “I was surprised when a faculty member from food science department was posted as vice-chancellor’s nominee in the interview panel for admission in PhD in politics and international studies. I was asked irrelevant questions by VC’s nominee. I was told that I will not be selected as I will start questioning any deficiency in academic or administrative affairs,” he said.
 
 The university has to publish the list of students selected for PhD within a week after holding the interview. “It is more than 10 days and the university is deliberately delaying the results,” he said.
 
 If the university had denied admission to these two students the centre’s head A Subramanyam Raju issued a certificate to S Monika declaring that her conduct was ‘not satisfactory’ during her course of study in the centre. “As per the academic ordinance of the university all powers relating to discipline and disciplinary action in relation to students shall vest in the vice-chancellor. Dr A S Raju issued a certificate declaring that my conduct was not satisfactory. I am facing difficulties in continuing higher studies in other institutions,” Monika said.
 
 However Raju brushed aside her charges and claimed that as the head of the centre he has the right and authority to issue certificate with ‘not satisfactory remarks. “It is not the first instance. I issued a certificate to a student from Afghanistan declaring that his conduct was not satisfactory last year,” Raju said.
 
