NAGPUR: A social worker moved the Nagpur bench of Bombay   praying for safe passage for radio cabs at railway station and airport and reducing menace of six-seater autorickshaws. He also pleaded for cancel permits of the autos for brazenly flouting norms.

 A division bench comprising justice   and justice Atul Chandurkar issued notices to respondents, including Centre and state governments, asking them to reply within three weeks.
 
 Union secretary for Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, state principal secretary, Mumbai-based transport commissioner, DCP (Traffic), regional transport officers (RTOs) at Giripeth, Wardhaman Nagar and Teka Naka, in the city, are made respondents. 
 
 Petitioner Paramjeet Singh Kalsi through counsel Harnish Gadhia further demanded action against autorickshaw drivers for haphazard parking, exorbitant rates and not plying by meter. He also insisted on directives to constitute a Special Investigation Team (SIT) for inquiring and punishing officers and public servants who failed to take action against errant autorickshaw drivers.
 
 Kalsi stated that he was keenly observing the operations of autorickshaws in city since last many years and even took many photographs. He said these vehicles, particularly six-seaters ones, are a real menace in the city. He also obtained information through RTI query in this regard. He contended that gravity of the problem was much severe due to unruly and autocratic attitude of drivers.
 
 He also made numerous representations to all the authorities to curb this menace, but after failing to get response, he knocked the judiciary’s doors.
 
 These autos are operating in areas like Old Pardi Naka, Wardhaman Nagar (East), Jain Temple Square, Mehta Petrol Pump, Harihar Mandir, Subhash Putla Square, Vaishnav Devi Square and Gangabai Ghat among others. 
 
 The petitioner also mentioned that many unauthorized vehicles which look like autorickshaw — Tata Magic, Mini Vikram, Optima, Bajaj, Mahindra Alfa, and Appe — are also illegally plying in all these areas. He sought directives to install Global Positioning System (GPS) and Radio Frequency Identification Tags (RFID) in each autorickshaw with a view to ensure safety of women and infants, especially plying in night hours.
 
 
