CHANDIGARH: Another   rocked the   (PU) on Sunday after the case of a student alleging sexual harassment by the son of a senior official of the university came up for discussion during the senate meeting on Sunday.

 The discussion on the matter tabled in the agenda started after the supervisor of the complainant alleged vice-chancellor professor   had asked him to disown the complainant. However, Grover said he had called the supervisor in some other context explaining that the “student should withdraw the complaint since false allegations could have serious consequences”. The supervisor responded that he wanted an apology from the vice-chancellor since he was being pressurized to disown the student studying under him.
 
 While the allegations and counter-allegations were being made, the vice-chancellor said, “Here is a university where false allegations are put against the vice-chancellor.” On this, the faculty member who had lodged the complaint against the vice-chancellor alleging sexual harassment got up and said, “I pity this university and it is a shame.”
 
 The PU faculty member had alleged sexual harassment and misbehaviour by Grover when she visited his office to congratulate him on the extension of his tenure. She had sent a complaint to   in April 2015.
 
 In the senate meeting, Grover said once the report of the inquiry committee comes out in 90 days, the truth will be known. He also said in the meeting that he had called up the principal of the college and told him that the complaint should be unconditionally withdrawn because the consequences of “the false complaint would be harmful for the complainant”.
 
 Supervisor of complainant alleges VC had asked him to disown complainant.
 
 VC says he had called supervisor in some other context explaining ‘student should withdraw complaint since false allegations can have serious consequences’
 
 Supervisor seeks apology from vice-chancellor
 
 VC says once report of inquiry committee comes out in 90 days, truth will be known
 
 Here is a university where false allegations are put against the vice-chancellor
 
 Professor Arun Kumar Grover | VC
 
 I pity this university and it is a shame
 
 Faculty member who had lodged sexual harassment complaint against the VC in 2015 
 
