Hyderabad: With a view to improve the ecosystem for startups working in the semiconductor industry, India Electronics and Semiconductor Association (IESA) is planning to set up two to three chip design centres in the country, the first of which is slated to come up in IIT-Hyderabad over the next couple of months, IESA chairman K Krishna Moorthy said here on Thursday.

 Moorthy explained that startups working in the semiconductor industry struggle to make ends meet as it is a very capital-intensive industry. Therefore, the chip design centres will have all the required hardware, servers, software as well as a laboratory to enable startups to focus on the core work.
 
 “We will provide virtual connectivity through a technology called VPN and using it startups will be able to connect to this campus from any location. We are also working with multiple national as well as global entities for fabrication of these chips…hence they will be able to design the chip and can get it manufactured without bothering about any capital requirement,” he added.
 
 Each centre will require an investment of around Rs 35 crore. The investments will be made by Central as well as state governments and IESA will be the implementing agency. However, in the case of IIT-Hyderabad, the institute will not require funding from the government as the institute has the requisite funds, Moorthy said, adding that the next centre is expected to come up in the North.
 
 According to industry estimates, by 2020, the semiconductor design market in India is expected to increase by a CAGR of 29.4% to reach $52 billion from $14.5 billion in 2015.
 
 Meanwhile, IESA is also planning to kickstart its NETRA (National ESDM Technology Research Academy) programme next year, wherein IESA will set up incubators in college campuses to boost ESDM (electronic system design manufacturing) product development ecosystem. As part of NETRA, IESA will identify 12 states where incubators will be set up in five colleges in each state.
 
 The IESA head also pointed out that it is important to encourage product development in the ESDM space as the size of electronics goods (in segments such as consumer, defence and medical, among others) in India is pegged at $100 billion, of which 70% is imported into the country. Hence, there is a great potential to nurture companies to capture this market.
 
  IESA also announced the launch of its Hyderabad chapter. The key objectives of the chapter is to widen the ecosystem, acquire new members and strengthen the supply chain in the region. IESA has chapters in Bengaluru, Delhi and Chennai.
 
 
