One of the major talking points during the recent film strike called by the   was the quality of the theatres in the state. While the exhibitors claimed that the theatres under their association were all renovated, the producers claimed that many of the theatres are in deplorable condition. Very soon, an official classification of theatres might come up, which will put an end to this quandary. The Government has called for a meeting on January 25 with all film related organisations including FEFKA, AMMA, MACTA and the theatre exhibitors associations. One of the plans in the agenda of the meeting is said to be the classification of theatres, among many other subjects.

 G Sureshkumar, office-bearer of   and a member of Adoor Gopalakrishnan committee, which has put forward the recommendation for classification of theatres, informs that an attempt of classification was once started off during the 2012-2013 period by the then Minister Ganesh Kumar. 'The Chalachithra Academy divided the theatres in the State into three regions ' Trivandrum, Ernakulam and Calicut ' and committees were formed in each region. The members of the committee would visit the theatres in the area and classify the theatres there, based on the cleanliness, hygiene of the bathrooms, parking facilities, visual and sound quality etc.' After the inspection, the theatres with good facilities were given special benefits by the corporation and many theatre owners started renovating the theatres. The Govt theatres were also renovated during this period, providing competition for privately owned ones. Several new theatres were also started during the same period. 'If the theatres are good, people will come for movies, and they wouldn't mind spending even `150 either. Collections increased during that period. However, many theatres were found to be deplorable as well, to such an extent that the audience might contract diseases due to the lack of hygiene. There was a move to deny new releases to such theatres. 
 
 However, the Kerala Film Exhibitor's Federation refused entry to the inspection committee and shut down many of their theatres. The next government did not take any interest in reviving the inspection and nothing more was done. We are hoping that the theatre classification will be an important agenda in the meeting on the 25th. There will be a re-inspection of the facilities in theatres, although we will have to start all over again,' he says.
 
 Some of the other recommendations put forward by the Adoor Gopalakrishnan Committee are the introduction of e-ticketing, tax reduction and a regulation of electricity bills among others. 
 
