SINGUR:   in   is having a free fall over the last couple of weeks, with wholesale prices plunging to an all-time low of Rs 2 per kg (Rs 100 per 50kg packet) — almost half the   of Rs 200 per packet. However, the dip is not reflecting in the Kolkata markets, with prices ranging between Rs 7 and Rs 9. So essentially, due to meddling by middlemen,   retail price turns five times dearer while covering 60-odd kilometres from the farm to buyer.

 Sensing an imminent crisis, the Bengal government is set to offer minimum support price to potato farmers in the state to stop distress sale of the food crop. The department of agriculture marketing has asked 460 potato cold storages to keep 10% space reserved for government-procured potatoes. 
 
 According to the agriculture marketing department, this year, a bumper potato harvest is expected in three major potato producing districts — Hooghly, Burdwan and Bankura and some blocks of other districts. The potato production, this year is pegged at 1.15 crore tonne in 4,500 hectres of land, compared to 90 lakh per tonne last year. A bumper production often leads to distress sale by farmers who fear rotting of the unsold crop in the field. 
 
 According to the notification (245-AM/0/4C-05/2013) dated February 23, 2017, issued by the agriculture marketing department secretary R K Sinha, on the basis of the advise of cold storage expert committee, all cold storages were instructed to reserve 10% potato storage space for government-procured potatoes. This space will be at the disposal of the district magistrate till March 21. Significantly, the cold storage will be opened on March 1, 2017, for stocking of the potato of Rabi season.
 
 Both farmers and cold storage owners welcome this move. Chintamoni Santra of Pursura, the country’s highest potato producing block, said, “This year, I had potato-farming in 1.5 bigha land, which produces 90 packets per bigha. But I had to sell some of the produce at Rs 80-Rs 100 per packet, incurring a loss of almost Rs 100 per packet. If the government buys out some part of the produce, I will be relived of a huge stress.”
 
 Bengal’s agriculture marketing minister Tapan Dasgupta said: “Our chief minister Mamata Banerjee has said farmers must not suffer and middlemen must not loot. This is why we are adopting such measures without disturbing the market equilibrium. Each Panchayat will prepare a list of potato farmers in potato producing districts.” 
 
 Arijit Saha, the owner of Dhanekhali Cold Storage, feels positive about the decision. “This will save the potato market to a great extent. A lot of farmers will have a breather. But the Panchayat must prepare the list of potato farmers on a war-footing.”
 
 
