PUNE: A 45-year-old labourer was killed and 30 others sustained injuries after the first-floor passage of a temporary shelter at a labour camp collapsed at   village in   on Sunday night.
The deceased, Ajab Lal, suffered severe head injuries and died at a private hospital in Aundh. The other injured labourers are out of danger.
 
 Hinjewadi police sub-inspector Yogesh Ramekar said a case of negligence resulting in death and other offences have been registered against the contractor, supervisor and safety manager of the labour camp. No arrests were made till Monday evening.
 
 The police said a quarrel in the neighbouring building around 9.30pm caught the attention of the labourers living in the ground-plusone shelter. About 35 of them came out of their rooms and into the passage on the first floor to check what was going on. “However, the structure could not take the load and a portion of the passage collapsed,“ Ramekar said. The labourers fell from a height of 15 feet and sustained injuries on the head, face, hands and legs. The police sent the injured labourers to nearby private hospitals. Around 1,100 labourers have been staying in the shelter for the past six months. The shelter, which has five blocks and 80 rooms, has been constructed using iron angles and cement sheets. The 100-foot-long, four-foot-wide passage provides access to the rooms on the first floor.
 
 One of the labourers who sustained injuries on the face and head told TOI that a few other labourers were quarrelling over some food-related issue in the mess. “I and other workers living in the `E' block of the shelter stepped out into the first-floor passage to watch the fracas. Even labourers on the ground floor had come out of their rooms to see what was happening. The mess is located right next to the `E' block. The block has10 rooms each on the ground and first floors. Fifteen workers live in each room,“ he said.
 
 The labourer said the passage collapsed suddenly .“Within a few minutes, the police and ambulances arrived at the block and took us to hospital,“ he added.
 
 Negligence while constructing shelter
 
 Police investigations have revealed that the material used for constructing the shelter was of poor good quality .“The contractor had con structed the shelter without even checking if it could sustain the load. The safety manager of the construction firm and the shelter supervisor had accommodated more labourers than what the place could take,“ Ramekar said.
 
 The contractor, supervisor and safety manager have been booked under sections 304(A) (causing death by negligence), 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the IPC.
 
