THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: For the forthcoming  , Uttarakhand, Punjab,   the   will join hands with other Left parties but will not be a part of a  . The decision was taken at the central committee (CC) meeting, which concluded here on Sunday. Though there were suggestions that the party needs to cobble together a coalition with the AAP in Punjab and the regional parties in Uttar Pradesh, the CC decided to stick to the stance approved by the Visakhapatnam party congress and Kolkata plenum.

 “Our priority will be to defeat communal forces,” said party general secretary Sitaram Yechury after the CC meeting. To a query whether the party will have any truck with the AAP in Punjab, Yechury said the AAP will have to first clarify its position on crucial issues like the new economic policies. “AAP has clarified its position on demonetisation but not on other economic policies,” he said. 
 
 Brushing aside opinions that staying away from a grand alliance in Bihar was a strategic blunder, he said: “Nitish Kumar and Lalu Prasad Yadav have been facing 15-year-old anti-incumbency. I think those votes came to me. If we had aligned with them, the BJP would have got more seats,” he said. The CPM leader refuted the allegation that the CPM had helped the BJP win more seats in Bihar. 
 
 The CPM has also decided to oppose simultaneous Lok Sabha and Assembly election as it was an anti-democratic suggestion. “The suggestion goes against the federal character of the Constitution,” said Yechury. The CPM general secretary also criticized the Union government’s decision to prepone the Union budget. “When you prepone it to February 1 from February 28, you can depend on the figures of second quarter that ended on September 30. That will be good for them as those figures predates demonetisation. If the budget is presented on February 28, figures of the third quarter will have to be included in the budget and it will be inconvenient for them,” Yechury said. 
 
 The CC meeting devoted most of its time to discuss the impact of demonetisation. The CC approved a 10-point charter of demands to be placed before the Union government and organize a series of protest from the January third week. The CPM will direct all mass organisations associated with it to take up protest on agonies faced by unorganised daily wage labourers, agriculture workers and farmers as a result of demonetisation. 
 
 The CPM asked the government to immediately withdraw all restrictions on people on ATM withdrawals and demanded that there should be no coercion on people to move to digital transactions. The CC approved the suggestion of the general secretary to join hands with any political party to being an agitation to achieve these two objectives. 
 
 “The real aim of demonetisation has become clear now. It was to shift the bulk of the economy to digital platform. We may also note that each digital transaction carries a transaction cost. Three major companies—Visa, Mastercard and   control the entire credit card business and they benefit from each card transaction,” said Yechury. 
 
