CHENNAI: The recent rulings of the Madras high   as well as the Gujarat high court have exposed what seems to be a big gap in uniformity of  . Reiterating the points put forth in the   filed in the court, coaching centres and teachers in   too said there were differences between the English and vernacular language papers.

 A total of 88,000 students had registered for the test from Tamil Nadu, while around 84,000 students wrote it. The test was conducted in 10 languages – Hindi, English, Gujarati, Marathi, Oriya, Bengali, Assamese, Telugu, Tamil and Kannada.
 
 The regional office head of Aakash Educational Services, Rohit Dewan, said when he examined the English and Tamil papers, there were clear differences. “ The Tamil paper had several questions wre different from those in the English paper. There are certainly different versions of the papers,” he said. The coaching centre said other language papers too had discrepancies in the questions. It is yet to be seen whether it was a gap in translations, they said.
 
 “The whole point of   was about a level playing field for all. But a few vernacular language papers seem to be tilting toward benefitting those of the regional mediums. There seems to be questions that relate more to the syllabus of the regional boards. As the state board groups were opposing NEET, it looks like an attempt to pacify them,” said Jean John Thomas, in charge of   and Gujarat. At least 70% of questions in the Gujarati paper were different, he alleged.
 
 R Rajesh of Pioneer Academy said students reported that the two papers were significantly different from each other. “It is not fair to students. A re-test may be the only way to make it a level playing field. Although students may be upset, moderation is difficult now with three types of students — English-CBSE, English-state board, Tamil-state board — writing the exam,” he said. 
 
 In Chennai, it took coaching centres some time to notice the differences between the two papers, as a vast population in the city opted for English. With the impression that papers would be uniform, some coaching centres too said they didn’t compare the two papers.
 
