NAGPUR: Doctors have blamed the quality of water supplied for the resurfacing of cholera and other water-borne diseases.

 They said there is no point in suggesting precautionary measures to citizens if the supplied water is contaminated in the first place. They suggested that citizens need to take extra care in the upcoming rainy season when food and water contamination can go up easily.
 
 Dr Sachin Suryavanshi, president of Association of Physician, said, “Cholera is water-borne disease; it can be epidemic or sporadic. The one we have experienced was sporadic in nature. But the fact that cholera is existent is itself an indication that water is getting infected somewhere.”
 
 He said, “Another possibility could be that when the water dries up during summer, water is supplied through tanker in many areas. Do we really expect those tankers to be sterilized?”
 
 “We have filters at home, but the container used for drinking may not be free from contamination. However, pouring chlorine drops in it can make the water safe regardless of the kind of container being used,” Suryavanshi said.
 
 “Everybody is susceptible to cholera, but cigarette smokers, diabetic patients and drug addicts are least immune. Hence, they are an easy target. esides, children are mostly prone to any kind of water-borne disease. Parents should take care that children don’t eat out in summer and rainy seasons,” he added.
 
 Dr CM Bokade, head of the paediatric department at  , said, “It’s important that children carry water bottle all the time, instead of drinking from outside.”
 
 On the fact that Central Nagpur had witnessed maximum cholera cases in 2016-17, Dr Bokade said, “Central Nagpur has many backward areas where you would find people drawing well water for domestic purpose.”
 
 Dr SP Majrekar, superintendent at   and Hospital ( ), said, “The drainage systems at many place are improper. The supplied water is contaminated as the water and sewage pipes run close to each other at several places. The leakage in pipes contaminate the supplied water.”
 
 Medical experts suggested that in such situations, citizens should consume water with chlorine drops poured in it. Such drops are commonly available at local pharmacy shops. One drop is enough for 1 litre water and the water becomes safe to drink within 15 minutes. 
 
 Another official from IGGMCH said, “PVC pipes were laid in an improper way during the new construction that took place at the college recently. While laying them, the PWD did not take into account the previous sewage line running close to them. Though the PVC pipes are new, there could be leakage at the joints. There is no point in taking such risks.”
 
 
