CHENNAI: A centre the state government set up in 2006 at the   to research the   and its historical significance vis-à-vis important contemporary issues like gender justice is now defunct despite availability of funds.

 This observation was in an audit report that the University’s Senate tabled at a meeting on March 25.
 
 The M Karunanidhi-led government instituted the Centre for Research on   (CRDM) to commemorate the 150th anniversary of the University. It university, with a view for the centre to mature into a full-fledged department, set up the Periyar EVR Chair on Rationalism and Gender Justice, Arignar Anna Chair on Development of Tamil Language and Socio-Political Thought, Chair on Social Economic and Equal Justice and the Chair on Federalism at Centre and Autonomy of States.
 
 University of Madras prepared a budget of Rs 3.96 crore, of which the state government sanctioned Rs 1 crore. The university made up the rest from ministry of human resource development funding. The university appointed a director and two Research Associates (RAs) for the Centre, for which it also started to construct a building and a library.
 
 But the varsity utilised only Rs 16.84 lakh of the state grant for the centre, the audit report said. “Delay in execution of the scheme has resulted in cost escalation, for which administration is responsible,” the report said.
 
 The audit also noted that the state government did not reply to a proposal from the university in April 2013 for financial assistance of Rs 1.14 crore.
 
 V Sivaprakasam, one of the two RAs appointed, told TOI that the university’s vice-chancellors did not show interest and this “killed” the centre.
 
 “We had grand plans for the centre,” he said. “It was to bring out research on the issues debated by the Justice Party between 1920 and 1936 like affirmative action, parallels of the Dravidian movement with the black movement in the US and how temple properties were handled during Dravidian party rule. We were to publish book translations as well.”
 
 Sivaprakasam said he made personal requests and discussed the plans with the vice-chancellors. “During Professor R Thandavan’s period, priority was given to the Anna Centre for Public Affairs and the Dravidian centre was put on the back burner,” he said.
 
 Thandavan was unavailable for comment.
 
 Head of the department of politics and public administration Professor Ramu Manivannan said this was an example of a good initiative that failed due to poor management.
 
