AHMEDABAD: The president of the   (ICAI), Devraja Reddy, encouraged students of the   to swiftly take on challenges of life. He was the chief guest at the 65th convocation ceremony of the university on Friday.

 Addressing the students, Reddy said, “You will have to take on larger challenges of life and therefore, give the utmost importance to your work.” He went on to say: “Maintain your integrity and honesty towards your work because ultimately your work will speak for you, no matter where you are headed.” He also spoke about Indian culture and traditions. “Values, tradition, and culture not only set our country apart from the rest of the world but also put it ahead of others. We should be proud of our culture,” he said.
 
 On the sidelines of the event, Reddy also spoke about the implementation of the new CA syllabus. “The new syllabus was delayed by a year,” he said. “Nevertheless, we have sent the final draft for corrections and hope to implement it by November. I urge students who wish to pursue CA to focus more on self-preparation than coaching.” State education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama was also present at the convocation along with governor O P Kohli. More than 50,000 students were awarded degrees at the ceremony. Interestingly, around 70% of the medals and key awards were bagged by girls.
 
 Box: Girl gets gold medal on day of wedding
 
 Shivani Patel, who was a postgraduate student of the department of life sciences, bagged three gold medals. She was set to get married on Friday afternoon and yet managed to attend the convocation ceremony and collect her awards. “This day is going to be a memorable one for me,” said Patel.
 
 Box: Student bags 9 medals
 
 Huneja Qureshi, a third year LLB student of LA Shah Law College, was awarded the highest number of medals at the convocation ceremony. Huneja was awarded nine medals. She is currently practising in the Gujarat high court along with her father. “I don’t want to pursue LLM. Instead, I wish to fight for women’s rights,” she said.
 
