Panaji: The state government on Wednesday announced massive subsidies and incentives for startups under its IT Startup Policy, the biggest highlight being a one-time grant of Rs 10 lakh to a startup with a promising minimum viable product. Additionally, such a startup can avail a one-time Rs 10 lakh loan from the state. Special incentives have been announced for Goan startups, while declaring reimbursement of upto 50% of the salary for any startup where local youth are hired. Goa government will develop a minimum of two lakh sq feet area for technology and innovation and incubation centres spread across the state in the next five years, IT minister Rohan Khaunte announced. The new policy aims to create at least 100 successful startups in Goa in the next five years, targeting employment for atleast 5,000 Goans.  A ‘Goan’, according to the policy, is qualified as a person who was either born in the state or with a domicile of 10 years or more in the state. Khaunte said that a startup centre will be opened at Udyog Bhavan shortly. “We want to become a top startup destination by 2025,” he said. “In order to promote innovation among Goan startups, 50% of R&D expenses, including salaries of PhD holders employed by the startups will be reimbursed for a period of two years, subject to a cap of Rs 5 lakh per annum. For startups hiring local talent, 50% of the salary of freshers will be reimbursed subject to a cap of Rs 10,000 per recruit, per month. Freshers are graduates who have completed their degree in the last two years. For startups with 60% local workforce, 25% of the salary of the local workforce will be reimbursed,” the policy states. Chief minister Manohar Parrikar said that the payment of subsides will be executed through a dedicated account. “Many a times companies complain that there is a long drawn procedure to get subsides and by the time they get to the finance department there are told there are no finances. This will not happen. Once a committee approves the subsidy, there will be a dedicated account for ease of payment,” Parrikar said. According to the policy, a maximum of three projects which show immense promise and potential will be eligible for grant of 30% of a loan interest amount, for the purpose of repayment of the interest component of a loan availed, subject to a maximum amount of Rs 5 lakh per annum, for an initial period of two years. Other startups can avail an interest repayment grant of 10% of the interest amount of a loan availed, upto Rs 2 lakh per year, for a period of two years. This grant will be in addition to any loan or subsidy provided under the chief minister’s rozgar yojana. “A startup promotion cell will be formed, which would serve as the nodal agency to register/recognise/certify the startups established in the state. Secretary, Information Technology, will be convener of the cell. The cell would report to a high-powered startup promotion committee, comprising of the chief minister, IT minister, chief secretary, IT secretary, and industries secretary and four nominated persons from the industry. The cell will be headed by a CEO will be responsible for determining the charter of the cell, and setting up the cell within three to six months of his/her appointment,” states the policy. In the next two years, the cell aims to mentor a minimum of 50 startups operating out of such government developed facilities.