SURAT: Surat airport for the first time figures in the list of top 50 busiest airports of India by passenger traffic and aircraft movement in the year 2016-17. The data published by   ( ) listed Surat airport at the 50th position due to phenomenal 105.3 per cent increase in passenger traffic at 1.94 lakh passengers in 2016-17 compared to 94,824 passengers in the previous year. 

 A recent passenger traffic survey by an airport group suggested that Surat airport is all set to become the busiest airport with more than 4 lakh passenger movements expected by the end of 2017. As per the survey, the passenger load in the flights in 2016 remained at 82 per cent. Against the total available seats at 2 lakh, around 1.68 lakh passengers travelled. In 2017, however, it is predicted that the available seats in the aircraft will be 5.23 lakh against which 4.04 lakh passengers are expected to travel.
 
 At present, the airport has four daily flights between Surat and Delhi by   and   and inter-state flight services to Ahmedabad, Rajkot, Bhavnagar and Amreli by Ventura Airconnect on a daily basis. Until a few months ago, Surat airport had only two flights to Delhi. However, come July, the airport will be buzzing with around 13 direct domestic flights to Hyderabad, Goa, Kolkata, Patna and Jaipur and one direct international flight from Surat to Dubai. 
 
 After the announcement of the direct flights from Surat to Goa, Hyderabad and Jaipur starting from June 1, SpiceJet will be launching direct flights to Patna and Kolkata from July 1. The Diamond City is inching closer to getting an international airport status. The internal modification of the terminal building has been almost completed to separate the arrival and departure of domestic and international passengers and creating space for customs and immigration facilities. 
 
 Official sources said   (CBEC) is likely to provide the customs notified status to Surat airport in a month. Air India Express, a subsidiary of Air India (AI), is expected to launch direct flight from Surat to Dubai, three days a week, in July. The flight will arrive from Dubai in the afternoon on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday and will depart from Surat in the evening. 
 
