NAGPUR: A city lawyer has moved the National Green Tribunal (NGT) for declaring Japanese Garden and   as a ‘smoke-free area’. Taking cognisance of forest fires that engulfed a major portion of the area on April 20 this year, the lawyer filed an   (EIL) demanding setting up vigilance mechanism to prevent its recurrences.

 The Pune-based NGT bench comprising justice UD Salvi issued notices to state’s chief conservator of forest,   and Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC), directing them to remain present with their reply on affidavit on August 1.
 
 Social activist Smita Singalkar through counsel Asim Sarode argued that the fire at Seminary Hills was a result of utter mismanagement and failure at carrying out mandatory duties for preservation and protection of forest by the concerned authorities.
 
 She brought to fore that frequent forest fires led to the destruction of natural habitats of various species. The petitioner also prayed for directives to the forest department and MoEFCC to submit a ‘crisis management plan’, with a view to protect and control forest fires as well as an action plan for prevention of such incidents.
 
 Singalkar also demanded deployment of sufficient number of forest guards for round-the-clock patrolling duty to avoid recurrence of forest fires and also demarcate and maintain ‘fire control’ line for prohibiting trespass.
 
 Citing the Biological Diversity Act, 2005, Singalkar stated that the board was duty-bound to conduct a survey/assessment of forest fire cases to assess damage to the area’s ecology and prepare a thorough report of losses related to biodiversity due to recurrence of such incidents at same place.
 
 A minor fire was reported on evening of March 6 where it gutted bamboo plantations and grass at Seminary Hills. It actually destroyed about 5,000 sq metre forest opposite social forestry nursery with forest officials suspecting a role of a passer-by who threw a cigarette butt.
 
 The one on April 20 was a major one as it spread from hills to the   and it took five fire brigade tenders over two hours to douse the huge flames which were seen from the distance. The police needed to block road and divert traffic during entire operation.
 
 Earlier, in May, the petitioner issued notice to the board asking its officials on whether it had conducted any such survey to assess the damages to area’s ecology. She asked them to share the results if it was held. 
 
