Chennai: DEMAT-insurance is yet to take off in India. Of a 1.25 billion population in India, only 9.875 crore have insurance. And of this, only 9 lakh (0.9%) have opened e-insurance accounts, said industry players, clearing showing that e-insurance account initiative despite being three-years-old has not taken off like other government schemes such as digilockers, UIDAI. 

 How do e-insurance accounts help? In events like floods or tsunami, where people lose all their belongings, including vital documentation to prove their identity -- a digital locker helps in them proving their identity and getting their claims settled.
 
 Demat insurance has not found too many takers, with many saying that they have seen only a few hundred customers sign up. Data repositories said that the biggest roadblock to the initiative taking off is the non-participation of LIC. “While the regulator IRDAI has been promoting e-insurance, it has not made creation of these accounts mandatory. As of now, they have defined an e-policy as a policy that can be documented in electronic format or downloaded from the insurer's website. Unless they make it mandatory, insurers are going to look at cutting costs,” said Cyrus Khambata, CEO, Central Depository Services Limited (CDSL).
 
 Another hurdle is that the general insurance industry is yet to catch up. While 24 of the life insurance companies in India have signed on, only 8 general insurance players have put the IT systems in place for e-insurance accounts.
 
 At Liberty Videocon General Insurance Company, its CEO Roopam Asthana said that of 6-7 lakh customers with the company only a few thousands have signed up. At ICICI Lombard, which has 15-16 million customers and got on board the platform in December, customers have not shown much interest in e-accounts.
 
 “When it came to the stock markets, when DEMAT was introduced it took off really well. With e-insurance, despite being a great initiative, not many people are really seeing the need for it. I think they are influenced by the fact that while you might have many stocks in your portfolio, you might at the maximum take 6-7 insurance policies,” said Liberty Videocon's Asthana.
 
 “I think there needs to be more awareness as to the benefits of having an e-insurance account. It offers great convenience. You could be driving and you could pullover to show a cop your vehicle insurance from your mobile. E-insurance accounts, submission of data to the Central KYC Registry -- are initiatives that would have real impact on the ground,” said Asthana.
 
 ICICI Lombard's chief underwriting and claims Sanjay Datta said, “We are trying to create more awareness via social media, mails. But ultimately for the scheme to take off, it depends on the customer. It is the customer's choice, which data repository they want to work with and whether they want an e-account. Many of our customers still prefer downloading an e-policy off the website.”
 
 Data repositories said that some life insurers are of the mindset that this is an unnecessary cost. “They think they are saving money. They only compare the cost of issuing and dispatching a physical copy to the Rs 25-Rs 30 we are charging. But the cost of issuing a physical copy also includes the cost of forms filled up, data entry, KYC document upload. Insurers must keep in mind that they are here to serve customer interests,” said Khambata.
 
 
