BENAGLURU: A   has directed registration of a   against  , owner of e-commerce marketplace  , and its 11 executives including CEO and founder Kunal Bahl.

 The city magistrate court has also issued summons to all the parties to appear at the court before May 27. The court was acting on a private complaint filed by Dream Merchants, a city-based event management company that organizes Bangalore Fashion Week (BFW).
 
 According to the complaint, Snapdeal dishonoured a three-year contract it had with Dream Merchants, according to which the web retailer had to sponsor BFW. Snapdeal refused sponsorship after the first edition of BFW. A contract clause between both the parties restricted Dream Merchants from associating itself with a competitor of Snapdeal to organize BFW, according to Dream Merchants. The event management company had to raise funds and run the event itself. The company later approached police but they didn’t register an FIR, prompting it to file a private complaint on May 17 last year.
 
 After hearing the case, the VIII additional chief metropolitan magistrate ordered early last month: “There are prima facie materials to show the accused induced the complainant to build a fond hope of association for the editions of Bangalore Fashion Week and made the complainant to believe them and enter into agreements with vendors, hotels/venues, models, designers and other co-workers executing promised editions of BFW and misrepresented the complainant while entering into the sponsoring agreement; and without proper reason terminated the agreement unilaterally, causing huge loss to the complainant.”
 
 The court further ordered registration of a case against Snapdeal under IPC’s Section 420 (cheating) which entails a jail term of up to seven years.
 
 The accused in the case are Jasper Infotech Private Limited; Kunal Bahl, CEO and co-founder of Snapdeal; Amit Maheshwari, senior vice president, fashion; Abhishek Passi, vice president, business strategy; Mudita Verma, director, Womens Clothing, Jewellery and The Designer Studio; Aditi Soni, head events (Fashion) & Communications; Anchal Chauhan, executive; Surendra Mohta, associate director, contracts; Sushma Earaiah, executive; Puneet Bhaskar, executive and Arghya Chakravarty, executive.
 
 'Will take legal steps'
 
 The company is yet to see the complaint filed against it. The company will take all appropriate legal steps to defend it and its employees against all baseless allegations
 
 -A Snapdeal spokesperson 
 
 
