NAGPUR: Even as the states celebrate International Biodiversity Day (IBD) on Monday, they are losing around Rs30,000 crores annually by not implementing   2002 & Rules 2004 effectively. 

 As per the provisions of the Act, companies and industries using   have to pay between 0.1 and 0.5% of annual turnover to the state biodiversity boards towards access and benefit sharing from the commercial utilization of bio-resources. However, states are losing crores as the Act is not being implemented.
 
 The Act prescribes that if any person, whether Indian or foreigner, a body corporate, association or organization want to commercially utilize bio-resources, then they have to share the benefit to either state biodiversity boards or   (NBA) as the case may be according to access and benefit sharing guidelines notified by NBA.
 
 Talking to TOI, Dr RG Soni, retired member-secretary of the   (MPSBB) and biodiversity expert, said, “The country is losing bare minimum Rs30,000 crores annually for non-implementation of Biodiversity Act, which has provisions for access and benefit sharing from commercial utilization of bio-resources.” Dr Soni had stirred up a storm by issuing notices to 800 MP companies in 2012 for not paying up for use of bio-resources.
 
 Biodiversity Act 2002 & Rules 2004 were passed by   and NBA was created in 2003. All states have state biodiversity boards. The Act focuses on conservation of biodiversity, sustainable use of bio-resource and access and benefit sharing from the commercial utilization of bio-resources.
 
 Earlier, NBA did not make any guidelines on access benefit sharing (ABS) till 2014. “As member-secretary, when MPSBB registered some cases against industries, the NBA was forced to notify ABS guidelines in November 2014,” said Soni. 
 
 The Chennai-based NBA is not applying these guidelines to foreign companies and hence is losing Rs10,000 crore every year. This money would have been used for conservation of forest, wildlife, native seeds and biodiversity. 
 
  (MSBB) member-secretary & PCCF Dr VK Sinha said, “Though the loss has not been ascertained, we have issued notices to 1,100 companies in the state. Over 100 have registered with us. Some ayurvedic medicine manufacturers have moved the court hence matter is disputed. We have also cleared the legal position.”
 
 “The manufacturers can delay payment but cannot deny. They will have pay the dues since the rules came into force. As it is, 95% of the amount received from these companies will be spent on conservation,” Sinha added.
 
 Soni said, unlike other states, MP is losing Rs2,000 crore every year due to non-implementation of the Act. “There is no political will to implement the provisions,” he stated.
 
 Soni demanded that ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) should see to it that Act is implemented in right spirit.
 
