CHENNAI: MS Dhoni was a master at pushing in some crucial quiet overs from the likes of   and   in the middle-phase of a game in 50-overs cricket, especially at home.

 Similarly, Australia skipper   would be keen on getting the maximum out of off-spinning allrounders   and   in the upcoming limited-overs series against India. With the series expected to be a high-scoring affair, the runs conceded or wickets taken by these fill-in bowlers will invariably become the difference between victory and defeat.
 
 "We have been working hard on our bowling. We have just come from the Bangladesh tour. Maxwell bowled well there. We both bowl different styles and I think we can both play in the same side. If we can get a chance with the ball, we can complement each other's skills," Head said after a training session on Thursday. In recent times, Head, who has an economy rate of 5.59 and Maxwell, (economy rate 5.54), have done fairly well in not letting the pressure go away during the consolidation phase with their tidy off-spin bowling and the odd breakthroughs.
 
 Smith brought on Head as the first change bowler in the practice match against Board President's XI. Head believes both cricketers can complement each other with the ball and do the job for Australia against a powerful Indian batting line-up.
 
 In batting too, the Head-Maxwell combo is expected to play a vital role for the visitors, coming in at No 4 and 5 respectively. Head, who warmed up for the series with a breezy 65 in the practice match, seems to be ready for the challenge. "I'm excited by the opportunity to go up the order again. It was nice to get some time in the middle the other day. Once the innings is set up by the openers and top-order, hopefully myself and Glenn can do that hitting role through the backend of the innings. We have done that before," said Head, who averages 40.75 with one hundred and six fifties in 22 ODI innings.
 
 Like most Australians in the side, the 23-year-old Head too has his fair share of knowledge about the conditions in India as he was part of the   squad in the  .
 
 The southpaw has picked up a few things from his RCB skipper  . "He has a good work ethic and is good on match day. He gets into the match zone and adapts very quickly. I have learnt a lot in the couple of IPLs. I try to adapt to the conditions, stay relaxed, be open-minded and do what is needed at a certain time of the game," he added.
 
