GURUGRAM: Protesters will exclude urban areas, including Gurgaon and Panchkula, as well as Mewat in the second round of the Jat quota agitation across Haryana on Sunday, Yashpal Malik, president of the   ( ), has assured.

 “We have decided to hold the agitation in only 19 districts of the state and have deliberately left urban areas like Gurgaon and Panchkula out of the ambit because last time several outsiders resorted to violence during the demonstration in these areas, which brought a bad name to our community. Since chances of confrontation are more in places like Gurgaon and Panchkula, we will only submit a memorandum to the district authorities. In the remaining nine districts, we will hold a peaceful indefinite agitation till our demands are met,” he said.
 
 Malik, while addressing the media on Saturday, said he had the support of 98% of the khaps (caste councils) in the state and strongly denied reports of fissures within the Jat community. “More than 98% of the khaps are in support of the agitation demanding reservation for our community. The remaining 2% are agents of the   government, which has done nothing in the past 10 years to get reservation for our community,” he asserted.
 
 Thirty people lost their lives during the riots that happened during the Jat agitation in February last year. Rohtak and some of its neighbouring districts, including Sonipat and Jhajjar, were worst-hit. 
 
 The demonstration had also affected Delhi as the protesters cut water supply to the national capital.
 
 Unlike the rest of the state, in 2016, Gurgaon only witnessed the blocking of major intersections and roads on the outskirts of the city and the protests remained largely violence-free.
 
 Malik said that apart from holding a peaceful agitation, the committee will launch anti-BJP campaigns in UP, Punjab and Uttarakhand. 
 
 “BJP has cheated us and its leaders are trying to misguide the people. We will campaign against BJP in all the three poll-bound states. According to ground reports, BJP will lose badly in both UP and Punjab,” he said.
 
 
