VIJAYAPURA: He recites 52 shlokas of the Bhagwad Gita, fluently and with clear diction. Mohammed Unus Usmangani Makanadar, 13, a student of class 9 at   ‘A’ here chose Sanskrit as his optional subject, when he joined class 8 in 2015.

 Unus’ recitation has astonished his teachers. The boy has a simple goal: “I want to get more marks in Sanskrit and learn an additional language; my ambition is to complete a postgraduate degree in Sanskrit. Another aim is to recite all sections of the Bhagwad Gita.”
 
  who teaches Sanskrit language in the school said, “Sanskrit is not a tough subject for this boy, he recite shlokas and the Bhagwad Gita with ease. He also attends the Bhagwad Gita class for 15 minutes every day, which has been a practice in the school for a century. Interestingly, this is an optional class, and he is the lone non-Hindu boy who attends Gita Patha.”
 
 Pujar added, “Among all students, Mohammad Unus is one of my best. He learns everything that is taught in class, with great interest. His recitation surprises everyone!”
 
 A resident of Ibrahimpur locality of Ganesh Nagar area, Unus bagged third slot in the Bhagwad Gita Patha contest for city-level high school students organized in Vijayapura by the late VH Nagarahalli Geeta Prasar Pratishthan in December. He also got a special prize in a contest instituted for non-Hindu students by the Foundation.
 
 Unus also appeared for the Ramayana examination conducted by the Bharat Samskruti Pratishtan, Bengaluru. He has applied for the Sanskrit examination conducted by  , Bengaluru.
 
 Unus told TOI, “When I continue started class 8 in this school, I chose Sanskrit as one of my optional subjects. During the last annual examination, I studied well and got the highest marks in class.”
 
 His father, Usmangani Makandar, who trains women in tailoring in Hitnalli village, said, “Unus did not speak to me or my wife, he went ahead and chose Sanskrit though he is an English-medium student. There was Kannada and Hindi too, but he opted for Sanskrit. I think the choice should be left to children. Knowledge is important, and there should be interest in learning.”
 
 Unus’ close friend   said, “I am proud of my friend, and that he has selected Sanskrit as an optional language. He recites shlokas and Gita Patha more fluently than all the others.” School vice-principal Vinod Desai said, “Mohammad is a proud student of our school, who is shining in Sanskrit.”
 
 
