PATNA: The special investigation team (SIT) probing the   (BSSC) question paper leak scam arrested Anish Kumar and Guddu Kumar from Dehri-on-Sone and  , respectively, on Sunday. The SIT would also move court to seek former   secretary Parmeshwar Ram and its data operator Avinash Kumar’s remand on Monday.

 Anish and Guddu were arrested on the statement of AVN School director Ramashish Singh (Rai) and others arrested in the scam. AVN School manager Ramsumer Singh, centre superintendent Gaurishankar, Verma ITI coaching institute head Nitin Kumar alias Sanoj, government schoolteacher Atal Bihar Rai and Random Coaching proprietor Rameshwar Kumar, who were in police remand, were sent back to jail on Sunday.
 
 Patna SSP Manu Maharaaj said Anish and Guddu had taken Rs50 lakh in advance from ten candidates to help them in intermediate level clerical grade competitive examination. “They had taken money from 30 candidates in Rohtas and Aurangabad districts to help them in the examination,” he said. The SIT has so far arrested 26 persons for their alleged involvement in the scam.
 
 Sources also said the observer, static magistrate, patrolling magistrate for AVN School are also under SIT scanner. “These district administration officials did not inform about the broken seal on the packets containing question papers at AVN School,” said a police official, adding that SIT would reach out to the press where the question booklets were printed. 
 
 “One observer on every 200 candidates, a static magistrate at each centre and one patrolling magistrate and one flying squad led by an ADM-rank officer on every four centres were deployed during examination, but none of them informed about the broken seal,” said a source.
 
 Patna district magistrate   said the administration was waiting for a report from the SIT to take further action. 
 
 The scam surfaced on February 5 during the second phase of examination as answer keys went viral on social media hours before the examination started. Later, chief minister Nitish Kumar ordered an inquiry and the four-phase examination was cancelled on February 8.
 
