RANCHI: Fresh controversy erupted on Monday after   (CBCI) members met governor   requesting her not to ratify the CNT-SPT Amendment Acts, approved by the state assembly during the budget session. 

 The tribal community in Jharkhand stands divided over the amendments, which now await the governor’s ratification. The community had resorted to protests when the government introduced the bill and the fresh controversy surfaced after a CBCI team headed by all-India chairman of tribal affairs Bishop Vincent Barwa and Ranchi archbishop   handed over a representation to the governor on behalf of the churches. 
 
 While the tribal-Christian community stands in support of the demand raised by catholic bishops;  , a socio-religious-cum-political outfit of the tribals, took out a procession against the archbishop and Bishop Nirmal Minj on Monday and burnt their effigies on M G road. 
 
 BJP state president Laxman Gilua, who is also a tribal leader, criticised the Christian missionaries and the Cardinal’s interference in a “political issue” and urged them to abstain from interfering in governance. “Catholic Bishops should take care of their religion and religious activities instead of interfering in the decisions of the legislature and the government,” he said.
 
 Joining the protest, Kendriya Sarna Samity president Foolchand Tirkey said Christians are trying to hijack tribal culture and religious distinction. “The churches are interfering in the socio-religious outfit of tribals and the Sarna Samity was divided on religious lines,” he said. 
 
 Samity executive president Bablu Munda accused the Cardinal of encouraging religious conversions by “using foreign funds to lure innocent tribals”. The leaders accused the churches of grabbing tribal land and owning property everywhere in the state. 
 
 Contradicting the issues raised by the BJP state president and Sarna Samity, two prominent tribal-Christian organisations, Akhil Bharatiya Aadivasi Mahasabha (ABAM) and Rashtriya Isai Mahasabha, issued separate statements. ABAM vice-president Mukesh Birua said Jharkhand is a Schedule V state where tribal protection law supersedes any other Act or law. “The governor is the custodian of the rights of the tribal in Schedule V state and everyone has the right to appeal to her if the government tries to violate the law of the land,” he said.
 
 Expressing similar views, Isai Mahasabha president Deepak Tirkey of criticised Gilua for dictating the Cardinal and Bishop’s conference. “Our constitution guarantees freedom of speech and expression and under no circumstances the Bishops or the Cardinal can be stopped from giving a representation to the governor,” he said.
 
