BENGALURU: On Thursday, the number of two-wheelers registered in Bengaluru went up by 100%; on Friday, it leapt by 246% as customers thronged showrooms to cash in on the huge discounts offered by two-wheeler manufacturers. This follows the  's ban on sale of bikes and scooters complying with   standards from April 1.

 With just a few hours left to make the most of the price cuts, Derek Sukumaran and Prateep Jerome, BPO employees in their early 20s, ran into a service station in Fraser Town, mistaking it for a showroom.
 
 They wanted to book a Honda Activa. On being told that it was a service station and the nearest showroom was 3km away on Mosque Road, he checked again: “The discount is Rs 18,500, right?“ The affirmation from the employee had them speeding out.
 
 Showrooms across the city saw a massive rush on the last day, which also reflected in the number of vehicles registering at regional transport offices. Narendra Kumar, joint commissioner (transport), said: “On an average, about 1,500 two-wheelers are registered in the 10 RTOs of Bengaluru. On Thursday, it went up to 3,000; today, we've registered more than 5,200 vehicles.“ Increase in sales and registrations did not mean every person who went out to book a bike got lucky like Sukumaran and Jerome, given that stocks were limited.
 
 Vinod, a sales executive with Dhruvdesh Honda, near Mehkri Circle, said that on Thursday and Friday, they sold around 300 two-wheelers. “There was a huge rush since morning. Among the bikes we sold were Dio and Shine, with discounts of Rs 18,500. There were also takers for costlier bikes such as those in the CRB series, which had up to Rs 40,000 off,“ he said.
 
 Dealers said people booking bikes did not even have to go to the RTO personally to register, as the process kicks in as soon as they pay road tax online. All the purchases were cash or card payments, and no loan-based purchases could be made because of the limited time.
 
 Among the many peculiar cases was that of Alvin Mendonca, a graphic designer who got plain lucky. Having gone to a showroom to book a   on Wednesday, the day the Supreme Court passed its order, Mendonca had to return home as he had forgotten his card. He said: “They were offering a discount of Rs 5,000. But I had forgotten my debit card and had to go back the next day. When I walked into the showroom on Thursday, the discount was Rs 20,000. I guess it was a lucky day.“
 
 With limited stocks and thousands of enquires, many dealers switched off their cellphone numbers listed on their websites. “Though we switched off our phones, people kept pouring into showrooms asking for motorcycles,“ said an executive of Haiku Honda showroom in east Bengaluru.
 
