PUNE: “It’s a stale question.” 

  deputy governor   on Saturday chose the   if the   will be in a position to tell how much currency has come back into the system. 
 
 The last day for the general public to deposit their old demonetised currency with banks ended on December 31, 2016. 
 
 “We have told this several times and so, in some sense, it has become a stale question. The process is on for counting and reconciliation…what is important now is that instead of asking the same stale question, it will be important to look at this in totality,” Mundra said.
 
 After December 10, 2016, the RBI stopped giving out data on how much money is back after it looked like all the withdrawn currency (Rs 15.44 lakh crore) could come back into the system. Till December 10, 2016 (with 21 more days to go for currency deposits), the banks had reported that Rs 12.10 lakh crore, or 78.26% of withdrawn currency, was back in the system.
 
 This sent the RBI and the government into a huddle and the apex bank said it will release fresh figures only after the full reconciliation of all the money, which has poured in, is complete.
 
 Mundra said it (the gains) should be looked into from four angles: “one, how much notes have come back into the system; two, how much money has flowed back into the formal economy and remained there; three: what kind of new tax payers are getting included; four: how it has impacted the migration to the digital transactions”.
 
 “I think the whole details covering all four aspects will certainly be shared at an appropriate time,” Mundra added.
 
 Initially, many experts and economists had said that there is likely to be a windfall gain for the RBI as many people will not deposit their ill-stashed wealth because of the fear of getting reported. However, income tax sources have said the exchange mechanism in the initial few days was successfully exploited by many to convert their old currency into new without getting noticed.
 
 Replying to a question on how much money in new notes RBI has pumped back into the system on February 8, RBI governor   had said: “We do not usually give out that information.” 
 
