GURUGRAM: Commuters travelling towards Delhi from Gurugram are having a difficult time passing through the narrow stretch behind   that leads to NH-8 due to the poor condition of the road.

 The road was dug up months back to pave the way for the 16-lane expressway being built by   and DLF, but authorities seem to have forgotten to repair the stretch despite the project nearing completion.
 
 The narrow stretch is metres away from the Vodafone Belvedere Towers Rapid Metro station, one of the busiest of the route.
 
 On Tuesday morning, officegoers had a harrowing time on the stretch due to massive snarls that lasted for over an hour. “The authorities have left huge mounds of stones and gravel on the side of the road. I am appalled at the way all the material has been left there unattended. Every day, I have to endure a jam of at least half an hour, but on Tuesday, it lasted for more than an hour,” said Arvind Nolkha, an office goer who lives in Sector 56.
 
 Other commuters also complained of similar problems. “I am supposed to check in to my office at 10 am,” said Vanshika, who works at Cyber Hub. “I am always apprehensive whether or not I will reach on time. It is because of this fear I leave at least two hours earlier before I am supposed to reach office. And today, despite leaving so early, I was late,” she added.
 
 Some commuters said ground realities did not reflect the the government’s desire of making Gurugram a world-class city. “The Khattar government says it will invite big businesses to Gurugram,” said Sanjay Vashisht, a resident of DLF Phase 2. “But where are the roads? If you don’t have a proper road in areas as significant as this, how will you invite businesses? Isn’t this a matter of shame for our country? Leave aside the pathetic condition of this road, it is the time which matters. People who work in the offices put a premium of time more than anything else.”
 
 Nolkha expressed surprise over the government’s inability to fix the road even after such a long time. “For the past six to seven months, I have been seeing it the way it is today. I am originally from Mumbai. I cannot believe that I have to wait for half an hour every day to pass a meagre 300 metres?”
 
 When contacted, MCG officials said most of the area around Cyber City had still not been handed ove to it.“It hasn’t been fully transferred to us,” said an official. 
 
 
