ISLAMABAD/NEW DELHI: A day after   rejected a Pakistani national’s claim that his newlywed Indian wife was being held hostage at the Indian high commission building in Islamabad, the woman has come forward and said that she was forced to sign the ‘Nikah Nama’ at gunpoint.

 Indian national  , 20, had met Tahir Ali of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province eight months ago in Malaysia, and reached Pakistan on May 1 after crossing the   border, alone. She also said she wanted to visit her relatives in Pakistan, and was never interested in marriage.
 
 On May 3, Uzma, alleged that she was forced to wed Ali, a taxi driver, who is already married to another woman and has four children from her.
 
 On Monday, she told a court that Ali had provided her the requisite sponsorship letter to visit Pakistan, but snatched her immigration papers after forcing her into marriage. Uzma had approached the Indian high commission on May 5 saying she wanted to be repatriated. Uzma also filed a case against Ali under the Pakistan Penal Code section 506, and recorded her statement before a magistrate. She said she was sedated, assaulted,   mentally and physically by Ali.
 
 The Indian ministry of external Affairs (MEA) confirmed that Uzma has taken shelter at the Indian high commission.
 
 “We have provided her necessary consular and legal assistance, and are coordinating with Pakistan foreign office for her safe return. We are also in touch with her family in India. Her brother met the external affairs minister and requested the government's help to rescue his sister at the earliest,'” said MEA spokesperson Gopal Baglay.
 
 According to the Pakistan high commission, Uzma’s immigration documents mentioned that she had travelled to Pakistan on a visit visa. Embassy sources confirmed that Uzma had not disclosed any intention to get married in Pakistan when she applied for the visa, and instead said she wanted to visit her relatives there.
 
 Her Pakistani certificates have some discrepancies as the name of her father in the visa form, marriage contract, and an affidavit is mentioned as Muhammad Naushad, while she is listed as the daughter of Sagheer Ahmed in the form submitted before the magistrate.
 
 Ali’s father Nazeer-ur-Rehman denied the allegations. “The marriage contract was signed at a court in Pir Baba town of Buner district. When the judge asked her whether she was willing to marry him, she replied in the affirmative,”   said.
 
