MUMBAI: The   will have a jumbo block from 10.35 am to 3.35 pm on Down slow lines between   and   stations. This could result in cancellation of few suburban trains, inconveniencing commuters. 

 The rail block is being carried out for maintenance of track, signal and overhead equipments. 
 
 During the block, all Down slow line trains will be operated on Down through lines (i.e. fast lines) between Marine Lines and Mahim Jn. 
 
 These diverted trains will not halt at Mahalaxmi, Elphinstone Road, and Matunga Road for want of platform, officials said. "Passengers are allowed to travel in opposite direction for their destinations between Bandra and Mumbai Central stations," he stated.
 
 All slow services will take double halt at Lower Parel and Mahim stations. Due to the block, some Up and Down local trains will remain cancelled, officials added. 
 
 
 
 
 There is a megablock today on Diva-Kalyan Down fast line from 10.30 am to 3.30 pm. 
 
 The Up fast/semi fast line services leaving Thane station from 10.46 am to 3.18 pm will halt at Mulund, Bhandup, Vikhroli, Ghatkopar and Kurla stations in addition to their respective scheduled halts and will arrive destination 15 minutes behind schedule, officials said. 
 
 The Down fast/semi-fast services leaving   from 09.38 am to 2.54 pm will halt at Ghatkopar, Vikhroli, Bhandup and Mulund stations in addition to their respective scheduled halts. The Down fast trains beyond Thane will be diverted on Down slow line between Thane and Kalyan halting at all stations and will arrive destination 20 minutes behind schedule.
 
 All Down and Up slow locals leaving/ arriving Mumbai CST from 11 am to 5 pm will arrive destination 10 minutes behind schedule, officials added. 
 
 
 
 
 Brace for a rail block on Kurla-Vashi Up and   lines from 11.10 am to 4.10 pm today.
 
 Harbour Line passengers are permitted to travel via   / Main line from 10 am to 4 pm.
 
 An official said "The Down Harbour line services to Panvel/Belapur/Vashi leaving from Mumbai CST from 10.35 am to 3.53 pm and Up Harbour line services for CST leaving Panvel/Belapur/Vashi from 10.20 am to 3.46 pm will remain suspended."
 
 However special local trains will run on CST- Kurla and Vashi - Panvel sections during the block period, the officials added. 
 
