NASHIK: Swachch Bharat, Beti Bachao and women’s empowerment are the main themes for the 9th   (NIFF), to begin at Raosaheb   from Thursday.

 Organised in the memory of Dadasaheb Phalke, father of the Indian film industry, the festival aims to pay a tribute to his home town, Nashik.
 
 “NIFF is our initiative to restore the vision of Dadasaheb Phalke and pay a tribute to him at his home town. Eight years on, this festival is now an important annual celebration for the film industry. Our aim is to establish the city as a place of worship for cinema,” said director of the festival, Mukesh Kaneri.
 
 The three-day festival will screen 100 films, short films, documentaries and nano-films. Over 600 entries were received for the festival, of which films have been selected. To promote the film makers of Nashik, a special section, ‘Nashik Focus’ has been planned wherein 15 films will be screened.
 
 “The festival will begin with Rhythm of Life, a short film on children’s issues in which   has a guest appearance. We will also screen a short film on Swachh Bharat which has Kangna Ranaut playing an interesting character,” said Kaneri. 
 
 The inaugural function will be held around 5.30pm on Thursday at Thorat Hall. The iconic villain of Bollywood Ranjeet will inaugurate the festival. Other guests will include Marathi actress Kishori Shahane, writer Dilip Shulka, supermodel Mali Sharma, Australian film-maker Satish Roy and Uday Tikekar. 
 
 The festival will also host a beauty pageant for the ‘NIFF Miss India 2017’ crown. This is India’s exclusive beauty pageant held in the wine capital of India. “The event aims to bring together young talent for the fashion, lifestyle and entertainment industry. Our team toured across India and selected the top lucky 21 finalists. The contest will be held on March 24 and 25,” Kaneri added. 
 
 A Masterchef cooking contest will also be held on Friday. The winners will be selected on the basis of decor, nutritional value and presentation of dishes. Famous chef Vishnu Manohar will present his delicacies at the event. 
 
 Pre-registration for viewers is mandatory for all the events which can be done for free on the NIFF website.
 
 Lifetime award to Lekh Tandon, Nimmi: NIFF felicitates two personalities every year with the Lifetime Achievement Awards. This year, veteran director and actor Lekh Tandon and noted actress of the 1960s, Nimmi will be honoured with this award. “We call this award ‘Dadasaheb Phalke Janmabhoomi Puraskar’. They will be in Nashik on March 23,” said Kaneri.
 
