JALANDHAR: There is a marked difference in the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) elections conducted this year. Pictures of SAD(B) patron   and president   are missing from the publicity material of the party candidates for the DSGMC elections. 

 Instead, DSGMC president Manjit Singh GK, who also heads the Delhi unit of SAD(B), is face of the party campaign. Even the hashtag on social media is #Vote4TeamMannjitSinghGK, which is being used by SAD candidates and supporters as they push their campaign on the social media.
 
 Sources said in the previous elections, SAD’s publicity material was dominated by the photos of Badals and the latter had a dominating presence in the electioneering. 
 
 According to sources, SAD getting support of Sirsa’s Dera Sacha Sauda for the Punjab elections had become a major reason for keeping the faces of Badals away from the publicity material. The Dera support issue was being raked up by the opposition, especially SAD (Delhi) president  , who is also former president of DSGMC, and the alliance led by Akal Takht’s former jathedar Bhai Ranjit Singh and Golden Temple’s former ragi Baldev Singh Wadala. 
 
 In a video message, Sarna said GK and DSGMC general secretary   supported the decision of Sikh clergy to pardon the Sirsa Dera chief.
 
 Sources in Delhi unit of SAD(B) revealed that their leaders were uncomfortable with the Sirsa dera support to Akalis. Apprehending damage to their poll prospects, GK attacked Sirsa dera chief as soon as voting ended on February 4. He also wrote a letter to the   jathedar, seeking action against Akali leaders who went to seek Sirsa Dera support, said sources.
 
 DSGMC president GK, however, claimed that they were not projecting political faces. “We have woven the campaign around local religious leaders only, who are involved in the gurdwara management. Our opponents even wanted to get us de-recognized by terming us a political party while the directorate of gurdwara elections made all groups to give an undertaking that ours is a religious party,” GK said.
 
 
