KAPURTHALA: Even as Kapurthala is in grip of  , local municipal body has failed to addressed the   following which a lok adalat has summoned the local bodies minster, Health Minister, secretary health, along with local health department and   officials for personal appearance on October 4 for failing to address the crisis.
 
 The summons have been sent by the Lok Adalat Judge Manju Rana to Deputy Commissioner Kapurthala.
  
 The court also directed that summons also be sent by email. “The aforesaid respondents may be directed to appear before the court in person to settle the matter for controlling the disease like Dengue,” the order concluded. 
  
 These summons were issued after complaint Suket Gupta on Wednesday through live video streaming showed the court the water standing even in MC area and becoming breeding ground for mosquitoes. The complainant also argued that this was the state of affairs despite directions by the Lok Adalat to ensure cleanliness in the town and taking effective steps. 
  
 A petition was earlier filed by Suket Gupta and other members of   on which Municipal CEO Kulbhushan Goel was also summoned and he appeared on September 24. The court had directed that he could take along the complainants in the town and the filth would be cleared in the town wherever it would be pointed out. However complainants on Wednesday pointed out that things remained where these were.
  
 In an application submitted on Wednesday the complainants made the two ministers and other officials respondents and pointed out that town was remaining unclean and the local hospital did not have the Apheresis machine (which separates platelets from the donor and are given in high concentration).
  
 When asked Kapurthala Civil Surgeon Dr Harpreet Singh Kahlon said that they had to refer only three patients from the total 349 who landed in the hospital and they were effectively treating the patients. He said that though they did not have Apheresis machine which was available in very big   including Jalandhar but they were giving platelets after centrifugation to increase their concentration in a transfusion. 
  
 Municipal CEO Kulbhushan Goel said that on that routine sanitation was being done and any problem pointed out by the complainants would be addressed.
 
