By- Partha Sarthi Sen Sharma

 Summer days are here again. For anybody who has spent his childhood in the North Indian plains, the two abiding memories of his summer perhaps would be the deliciously awaited mangoes and summer vacations.
 
 In the peak of summer afternoons, when going out was prohibited by the grown-ups, one remembers the greedy, slurpy helpings of delicious Dussehries and Langdas, all floating in a bucket of water, in verandas that were cocooned with 'chiks'. Just like now, there was a short span of a few weeks when the fruit vendors and bazaars were overwhelmed with a virtual glut of delicious and soft yellow Dussehries and greenish yellow Langdas. Yes, there were others, the Alphonsoes and the Totaparis and a couple of weeks later the Ratauls but delicious as they were, they had their niche fans-like the   and   but the Dussehries and Langdas were the Rafi and Kishore--the bread and butter delicacies of everyday. Nothing could beat the sheer pleasure of sucking on a mango and then peeling and devouring its insides with sticky fingers.Cutting them into pieces and using spoon and fork was reserved only for the occasional guests. An mango shake was a delicacy alright but it lacked the easy spontaneity of eating a mango in its natural form.
 
 The other memory of those distant summers is that of the much awaited school vacations. I still remember that due to some strange reason, my government school had a vacation of 50 days, till the last week of June, while all the other schools used to enjoy vacation till early July. The pain of going to school in those last weeks of June, year after year, when my sister could still enjoy 10 more days of summer vacation, rankles to this day! Mostly, most of my friends and we would stay in our homes for large parts of those vacations, even when none of us had ever heard of terms like `staycation'. This was partly because the father didn't have summer vacation, unless he was a school teacher himself, and also because of the money that was required to go for an extended holiday anywhere. In those days, going on vacation usually meant going to a grandparent's house, maternal or paternal, sure in the belief that the grandchildren would always be welcomed with open arms.
 
 So, we would be travelling on the   chair-car to Kolkata. In those days, the Rajdhani Express ran only to Kolkata and Mumbai.They were, unlike today, the acknowledged pride of the Indian Railways and had a chair-car for an 18-hour journey. The plush coaches with piped music and covered tube lights, attendants in sharp uniforms, tea served in thermos, foil-wrapped chapatis and rice and chicken curry were a class apart. I can still feel the tingle of excitement, re membering how we used to await the journey, standing at the platform of New Delhi railway station, amid the din and heat and dust, waiting for the coaches to arrive. The thought of discomfort of sitting through an 18-hour journey never crossed our tiny minds. We just couldn't imagine anything more in those days and you can't miss what you can't even imagine! Today, too, the summer vacations have started, not for me, but for my daughter and perhaps one would go for a short trip in air-conditioned vehicles to one of the overrated hill stations, stay for a few days in an overpriced hotel and perhaps even enjoy it but the excitement of those childhood summer vacations, with their mango-filled aroma, long train journeys and chik-covered verandas would always remain with me as the most cherished of memories! 
 
 (The writer is a Lucknow enthusiast and an IAS officer. He also likes to read, is a sports enthusiast, and is also a keen nature lover. He has recently authored a novel, his third, titled `Every Mile a Memory')
 
