NEW DELHI: The civic set-up in the   assembly constituency has changed drastically after the   of municipal wards. From four, the number of   there has gone up to seven, the most in any assembly constituency. This means that the region with a population of over four lakh will now have three additional councillors to look at civic issues. While residents are happy with the impending redistribution of resources, they had a lot of complaints about the incompetency of the sitting councillors.

 With just Matiala being an urban ward, the people of the three other existing wards, Chhawla, Nangli Sakrawati and Kakraula, had bitter memories of neglect by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation. Not only do these fall in rural areas, but they also consist of unauthorised colonies, where the corporation traditionally does not carry out much development work.
 
 Ashok Kumar, a resident of Chhawla, said that his ward had no public toilet, no dhalaos for garbage and no cleaning of drains. These issues had never been addressed by the councillor despite numerous complaints, he claimed. While the residents feel deprived of basic facilities, Pradeep Kumar, the councillor, is developing a sports complex for the ward, Chhawla residents said. “We don’t need a sports complex. We need basic facilities,” said an irked  . “The roads are in bad shape, drains are choked and during rains everything becomes a mess.” 
 
 The situation is similar in Nangli Sakrawati and Kakraula. “The drains are clogged and the backflow floods the colony roads,” complained Narender Sharma. “After every five years, politicians come forward with several promises, but not a single promise is fulfilled.” 
 
 The councillors admit development of the rural wards will take time. “These wards are backward compared with urban wards. We have addressed most of the issues raised by residents,” said Kumar, the Chhawla councillor.
 
 Matiala ward is the only urban ward, and the situation there is relatively better. However, disposal of garbage is a perennial problem. The ward comprises mostly cooperative societies, and in the absence of dhalaos, garbage is collected in dustbins outside the society gates. But residents complain that due to irregular disposal, the stinking heaps have to be dumped in nearby areas.
 
 “Despite being a model ward, there is a sanitation crisis here,” pointed out Kunal Singh. “Now that the entire constituency has been remapped, we hope it will help because there will be equal distribution of funds based on population. Earlier, same constituency was handled by four councillors and they were unable to handle it.” Ramesh Matiala, the councillor of Matiala ward, agreed increasing the number of wards was “a great move that will lessen the burden of councillors and help everyone to perform better”.
 
 
