 CHINCHWAD:   managing director Brijesh Dixit has reiterated that the Pimpri Swargate metro rail route will be extended to Nigdi in the second phase of the project. 

 The officer said he will soon hold discussions with the Union and the state governments on the proposal. 
 
 “We are happy with the demand for extension of the route from Pimpri to Nigdi. The number of commuters will also be increased as it is an industrial township. The Pimpri Swargate rail route is being constructed along the Mumbai Pune highway,” he said. 
 
 There has been an increasing demand from citizens, social organizations and political leaders about the extension of the route from Pimpri to Nigdi. Several social organizations, including the  , had formed a human chain last week near the Sant Tukaramanagar bus depot where the construction work has started. 
 
 Social groups said the Nigdi, along the Mumbai Pune highway, is the starting point of the Pimpri Chinchwad route. About preparing the detailed project report for the 4.5km Pimpri-Nigdi route, Dixit said Mahametro will prepare it after the Pimpri-Swargate rail corridor picks up momentum.
 
 Dixit said the 65-km Delhi metro route was started in 1998 and has by now reached to 200km. 
 
 “The elevated route from Pimpri to Nigdi, will be constructed over the Empire Estate flyover in Chinchwad. Mahametro is also holding discussions with the PCMC about construction of the flyover and grade separator at Bhakti Shakti Chowk in Nigdi,” he added.
 
 Meanwhile, the construction of the first pillar has started near   phata and about 3% work has been completed so far. Mahametro will soon start a full-fledged office at Phugewadi. 
 
 A public information centre will also come up at the Sant Tukamnagar ST depot for people to see the actual progress on ground and share their suggestions and complaints about the difficulties they face with the metro construction. 
 
 Just as in Nagpur, Mahametro will start identifying metro mitras, who would help in coordinating traffic at the six metro stations in the twin township. 
 
 “While the construction of pillars will be on the median of the highway, digging work is going on BRTS lanes for construction of six metro stations,” Dixit said. Construction of the Kasarwadi/Bhosari metro station will be along the railway station and the elevated corridor will go from flyover near the station, he said. 
 
  Mahametro will construct the metro coach depot at the agriculture college, Shivajinagar. No depot will be constructed at Pimpri. 
 
 The metro will have six coaches and the frequency would depend on peak and non-peak hours. The coaches will directly come to Pimpri and further up to Nigdi. 
 
 Mahametro will also construct a new foot over bridge (FOB) before dismantling the existing facility at the Sant Tukaramnagar area for construction of the metro corridor. 
 
 The foot over bridge near Kharalwadi will not be demolished, Dixit said. 
 
 
