NAGPUR: The Supreme Court’s ban on the   near   has brought about a new problem ‘beyond 500 meters’. The   not affected by the ban are mostly in residential areas, which have turned into open bars.

 On August 31, 2015, TOI had done a reality check of many residential areas where wine shops had unscrupulously turned into open public bars. Two years later, the problem has only got bigger. 
 
 Finding a way to beat the ban, people are resorting to drinking openly, brazing it out in narrow alleys, under flyovers, at food kiosks and any spot they wish to. Serpentine queues outside wine shops, streets choc-a-block with vehicles and hooligans consuming alcohol openly on main roads — this is not just causing inconvenience but also posing threat to security of the residents.
 
 Last week, TOI took a look at many such spots witnessing the binges. Inside the narrow lane of Mohan Nagar colony (near railway station), runs an old wine shop in a building’s basement. Though the shop would always be thronged by customers, the numbers have drastically increased post the ban. “Since the wine shops and bars of Sadar and Kamptee Road have gone dry, a lot of habitual drinkers from far-off areas have started coming to this shop,” says resident Roopesh Naidu.
 
 This reporter and photographer visited the area around 7.30pm and saw people ‘making’ their drinks right outside the shop. Various pockets of the cramped alley remain encroached with kiosks — selling eggs, fried fish, peanuts, boiled eggs and other tid-bits, all considered accompaniments for the drinker. After stepping out of the shop, many people start drinking sitting on their two-wheelers, getting supply of disposable glasses from the kiosk owners. 
 
 Residents say that the wine shop owner has even appointed a man to manage parking of four-wheelers. “Many groups start drinking in the car itself. This is a mockery of law and order,” they say. 
 
 While earlier only people living in nearby localities were prime customers of the shop, now new faces are coming in. “Those staying nearby were not really a threat. But now customers of closed down shops and bars are coming here too and are a menace,” says social activist Dinesh Naidu. 
 
 Indira Gandhi Medical College, 8.30pm. The scene here is no different. Different groups of people were spotted drinking along the road — sitting in and behind parked cars — while some took a quick drink outside the shop. A little ahead, a couple of men were found drinking and smoking on the pavements. 
 
 Further ahead, the situation below Mahdibagh flyover is shocking — over 100 yards of area on both sides is a tippler’s paradise. It’s not even 9pm and residents are forced to stay locked inside their houses. Reason? At least 100 men have opened bottles of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) and country liquor.
 
 They are sitting everywhere and anywhere — on footpaths, two-wheelers, boulders and also on the foot of the flyover’s pillars. Dozens of carts selling food items are spread over in the area, leaving hardly any space for vehicular movement. 
 
 The crowd is full of anti-social elements who break liquor bottles, abuse, get violent and create a scene. Fear lurks in nearby residential areas, so much so that women and children fight shy of stepping out of their homes as evening descends. “When going out, we usually ask male members of our family to accompany us. When our kids come back from tuitions in evening, we make sure they are constantly talking to us on the phone till they reach home,” says a female resident.
 
 Men, too, avoid facing the troublemakers. “The patch of road beneath the flyover is supposed to be open for traffic. But it is impossible to drive a car there. Moreover, there is always a fear of what these drunkards will do. Hence we go out of the way taking a long route to home,” a resident says.
 
 This is happening right under the nose of cops — there is a checkpoint nearby. “Few months back, a man was murdered below the flyover. For about three days, the activity came to a halt due to police visits. But it started again in no time and has increased tremendously post the court’s ban,” residents say.
 
 TOI even spotted some drunk men urinating in the middle of the road. Some residents complained to the police control room and   (NMC) but no concrete action was taken. “With nearby bars closing down, people find it easier to come here and consume alcohol. Even if the authorities shoo them away, they return,” say residents.
 
 Same is the case near Koradi flyover. Opposite the recently opened tony hospital, there is a row of eateries serving Chinese food and other munchies. At around 10pm the space in front of these establishments was entirely encroached upon by men consuming alcohol.
 
 It gives a look of an open public bar — Koradi police station is a few kilometres ahead but people drinking not under but on tables is not coming to the cops’ notice. “Earlier, people would sit and drink on the traffic island at Mental Hospital Square. But ever since the wine shop there has closed, the concentration of crowd has increased in our area,” says a resident.
 
 Another busy road where small groups of men could be seen drinking outside food kiosks was near Jaripatka bus stop and IT Park. Last year, TOI had repeated that the main vegetable market in Jaripatka is an open bar even during the day, with many kiosks catering country liquor to auto rickshaw drivers and others.
 
 Recently, decomposed body of Manish Lonare, a man in his mid-30s, was found in an abandoned building near the market. Empty liquor bottles were found beside him. Residents fear more such untoward incidents if illegal alcohol consumption continues. 
 
 The area near the main gate of Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology (VNIT) opposite IT Park, is another public spot where one would find open liquor consumption near kiosks. “One side of the road is closed for concretization work and people have started misusing it too. People park their cars and keep drinking till midnight,” says IT expert Taufique Azad.
 
 The ban has also given a boost to sale of illegal liquor manufactured in houses, points out social activist Nutan Rewatkar. “Nobody thought of the pros and cons of this ban. Residential areas are at the receiving end. Most of the wine shop owners don’t posses a no objection certificate (NOC) from residents. People cannot even object as the hooligans turn violent,” she says.
 
 Tejinder Singh Renu, secretary of Vidarbha Taxpayers Association (VTA), concurs that the prohibition has resulted in legal business going into illegal hands. “As expected, residential colonies are suffering the most with existing bars and shops becoming overcrowded. To avoid such rush, people have started consuming liquor in cars and roadside openly. And this situation will keep turning worst day by day,” says Renu adding that highways within outer ring road of the city should be denotified to curb the rising menace.
 
 According to political analyst Anjali Gaidhane the ban “has only complicated things” and “does not offer straight solutions”. Stressing that residential areas are facing a big nuisance, Gaidhane says that policing has to be increased immediately. “The ban was imposed to ensure safety of people. But it has backfired by putting the residents of localities having wine shops at risk,” she says.
 
