Sandeep.Moudgal

 Bengaluru: For a city with a population of nearly a crore, Bengaluru has just 120 centres for Aadhaar enrolment. For the past one week, almost all permanent centres of the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) have been witnessing a huge rush ahead of the July 31 deadline to file income tax returns (ITRs). 
 
 “There are only two people at the counter. And at least 100 people are waiting in the queue to get enrolled. Getting the card is no mean feat,” said an exasperated visitor at an Aadhaar centre. 
 
 The Supreme Court has not made Aadhaar mandatory for receiving any government benefits, but as the last date for filing   nears, citizens are queuing up for tokens from as early as 6am. 
 
 From Jayanagar and Kodigehalli to Hegganahalli and Anekal, almost all BangaloreOne centres and permanent Aadhaar enrolment offices have exhausted the token limit for the week (only 30 to 40 can be issued per day). Once issued the token, citizens have to come back at a later date to furnish their biometrics.
 
 Those manning enrolment centres are feeling the pressure. “We issue 30 tokens each day, and one week’s quota is over. Now, tokens are only available for August 5,” said a staffer in-charge of enrolment in Bangalore North. In Kodigehalli alone, the waiting list comprises 30,000 citizens.
 
 The situation is no different in Bangalore South sub-district where enrolment agencies are having a tough time managing crowds. “We have a cap of 40 tokens. Owing to the high demand, we have issued tokens till July 31. Now, people can only get tokens for enrolment only on August 1,” said a BangaloreOne agent.
 
 A source in the UIDAI regional office said given the massive rush, people will have to travel to far off locations if they want to get themselves enrolled before the July 31 deadline.
 
 According to the UIDAI website, of the 65,426,566 people in the state, 59,785,565 already have Aadhaar numbers.
 
 No cap on tokens: Official
 
 A senior official said not all centres were witnessing huge crowds. “There are many citizen service centres (CSCs) in Bengaluru where people can avail of the facility. People shouldn’t wait for tokens to get enrolled and must visit another centre if the job is not done at the first one. UIDAI cannot say where a person should or should not go,” he said, adding that there’s no cap on the number of tokens.
 
 
