KOLKATA: Mayor   wants to carve out a big chunk of land from East Kolkata Wetlands’ Dhapa Manpur mouja to remove fetters that constrict his ambitious “development” plans. 

 With the land freed of the Ramsar site tag, he wants to set up a second municipal waste dumpsite for Kolkata, construct an elevated corridor linking EM Bypass to the main arterial road in New Town and develop a park and eco-cultural centre to promote tourism.
 
 According to the plan, tabled at the first meeting of the reconstituted EKW Management Authority that he now heads, the EKWMA will draw up a wise-use plan that will segregate the EKW area into different zones depending on the nature, classification and present land use. It will review the present status of EKW and explore the possibility of excluding certain locations.
 
 The proposal to alter the internationally recognized wetland that has the Ramsar tag comes a day after the Supreme Court blasted the Centre for not complying with its order to frame rules for preservation of   and warned that it would put the Union environment secretary behind bars if the government failed to give a roadmap within a week for conservation of wetlands.
 
 At the meeting on Friday, Chatterjee said the current Dhapa dumpsite and land around it needed to be taken out of the purview of EKW so that the crisis over a future landfill for municipal solid waste could be resolved. Sources said the KMC needed at least 160 acres for the site. 
 
 “We are currently in discussion and will take a decision after consulting everyone,” Chatterjee later told TOI. 
 
 The mayor has, for several years now, been demanding a relaxation in the EKW rules to create a scientific landfill. 
 
 The 60-acre site is stretched beyond capacity. If he manages to push the proposal through, Kolkata will lose its only direct link with EKW — the expanse of greenery and waterbodies between   and Chingrighata is the only visible portion of the Ramsar site in the city. Much of the rest in urban areas, both Bidhannagar and Sonarpur, have already been encroached upon.
 
 Sources said the mayor assured the other members of EKWMA that he would keep the Ramsar secretariat in the loop. But even if it gets a nod from Ramsar, his proposal is likely to meet with stiff opposition from environmentalists as the wetlands also enjoys the protection of a Calcutta HC judgment. 
 
 Even  , the senior adviser ( ) of Ramsar secretariat who had participated in a workshop organised by Chatterjee a few months ago, said any proposal to alter the character of the site must be put in the public domain. 
 
