KOCHI: The  's (Cial) new international terminal (Terminal 3) is set to be commissioned in March second week.The Rs 1,100-crore facility will almost double the operational capacity of  .

 Currently, terminal 1 (T1) facilitates 37 immigration counters. The new terminal will have a total of 80 immigrating counters, which will significantly reduce long queues for international travellers.
 
 With the commissioning of T3's phase one (south), the terminal will operate nine gates and 10 aerobridges. As of now, T1 facilitates five aerobridges.
 
 The T3 will be capable of operating 12 aircrafts at the same time. Once the second phase (north) gets over, it can operate around 25 flights at one time. As of now T1 operates five to seven aircrafts at a go. “The phase-II will be completed in a year,“ said airport director Chandrakumaran Nair A.
 
 There will also be an upgrade in facilities for business and first class passengers.They will have exclusive access to their respective gates.
 
 According to Cial authorities, T3 will have the most advanced baggage screening facility in the country with computed tomography (CT) machines. It will scan baggage from multiple angles, allowing security officials to get a complete view of the baggage. CT systems are currently being tested by the   (TSA) from the United States and Cial is waiting their approval.
 
 “TSA approval is must for CT machines. Though we don't have direct flights to the United States, our passengers will not require a TSA approval for their luggage at their transit point,“ he said.
 
 There's good news for domestic travellers too. The domestic terminal operation will be moved to the old international terminal building once it gets renovated.
 
 “The current domestic terminal is getting congested. So commissioning T1 as the new domestic terminal will really help to overcome the crisis,“ said Rajumon PC, senior manager.
 
 The new terminal will be able to handle 4,000 passengers at peak hours instead of the 2,000 passengers at the present international terminal.
 
 “Terminal 1 is just sufficient. We are having a 11% yearly increase in the number of international passengers at Kochi. Last year, we had a 20% increase in domestic passengers,“ said Nair.
 
 He said that many existing airlines such as Etihad, Malindo Air and   have increased their frequency.
 
