CHENNAI: Residents living near the   in   and   opposed the   attempt to set up   (WTE) incinerators at a   held on Friday.

 Last month, TOI reported that the civic body would re-mediate the existing landfills and incinerate waste to produce power. On Friday, the corporation hosted the public hearing in two sessions.
 
 In the morning session held in Thiruvottiyur, the corporation ensured the participation from residents was minimal by roping in more than 100 Amma canteen workers to fill space in the auditorium. “We were told to attend the programme because they (officers) said we will be taught new tips on hygiene,” said one of the workers. The evening session was held at Puzhuthivakkam.
 
 Neither the workers nor residents were able to grasp the project details because the representative of project consultant IPE Global, struggled to get his point across in Tamil. Though public raised this issue with officials, senior bureaucrats chose to play silent spectators. When offered time to speak, residents living near the landfills lashed out at the corporation. “This project is an eye-wash. By burning the waste, you (corporation) will once again subject Kodungaiyur residents to health problems due to severe air pollution,” said a resident of Ezhil Nagar.
 
 C Karthik, a resident of Tondiarpet, said incinerators would leave behind toxic ash. “I have doubts over whether the consultants and officials themselves understand how waste management works,” he said, after the consultant representative suggested that composting was bad for the city’s air quality.
 
 Officials’ silence troubled residents more. One of the aggrieved participants was the environmental activist Dharmesh Shah, whose query on cost break-up for the project went unanswered. Several residents requested the consultants to provide them with a copy of the presentation in order to understand it better, but their calls went unheard. 
 
 Sources said the corporation was under pressure to submit a progress report on the project to the central government by August 1, which begs the question what caused the local body to delay the hearing for so long. “We were instructed to only listen to the comments from public, not respond to it,” said an official, explaining their silence. 
 
