NAGPUR:  , 22, is a vehicle thief with a difference. Now in police custody, the cops have already recovered nine Maruti 800 cars and five bikes apart from some jewellery after nabbing him on February 19 earlier this month. Bhandekar would steal cars and bikes only to enjoy a ride and then sell off its batteries for money before abandoning the vehicles. 

 It was Bhandekar‘s attempts of selling batteries that out a brake on his stealing spree before walking into police trap. After selling two batteries, Bhandekar was trapped while the disposing off the third one. Another habit which led to Bhandekar’s arrest was his addiction to liquor which he mostly consumed at a bar at Panchsheel talkies. Before the cops could nab Bhandekar after a chase, he was already under surveillance as informers had updated cops about his visiting the Panchsheel chowk’s liquor bar. 
 
 Bhandekar, who used to work at a garage as a mechanic, had an offence of assault registered against him at MIDC  . Basically a vagabond, Bhandekar stayed on the footpath near Meetha Neem dargah at Civil lines. He would mostly depend upon alms and charities from the devotees visiting the shrine. It was his passion of riding cars and bikes which turned him into a thief. Unlike other thieves, Bhandekar would abandon his stolen vehicles wherever the fuel tank would be exhausted. Rana pratap nagar police team comprising PI DR Patil, API SS Shirke, constables Manoj Joshi, Ashish Khirsagar, Abhishek Hardas and others under senior PI Shivaji Gaikawad have recovered the stolen cars and bikes from different parts of the city. 
 
 Police also said that Bhandekar, who uses duplicate key which could open only Maruti 800 cars, once could manage to lay hands upon a purse kept inside a four-wheeler at Ajni last week. The purse had substantial ornaments. Bhandekar had hid the purse in a shrub beside the Ambazari overflow point from where the cops had managed to recover it intact. 
 
 PI Gaikwad said Bhandekar had stolen two cars in the single night on February 2. After stealing the first one, Bhandekar was unable to enjoy the ride as the fuel had exhausted. Shortly after the fuel level disheartened Bhandekar after stealing the first car, he stole another. The cars have now been recovered. 
 
 Police said the six cases of car thefts, registered at Rana Pratap nagar police station, were detected after arrest of Bhandekar. One at MIDC and another at Sitabuldi police stations too have been detected. Bike theft cases at Rana Pratap nagar, Sadar, Ajni and Dhantoli police stations too were detected. 
 
