MANGALURU:   announced by the   of   at the   effective from New Year while bringing joy to individuals concerned, has thrown up a new challenge to the department. 

  Promotions at the level of police constables up to the rank of assistant sub-inspectors have created gaps at constabulary level, which the police top brass over the years have acknowledged as vital to the effective functioning of the police units and its detachments. 
 
  If one takes the example of two policing units in this part of the state - Dakshina Kannada district police and   city police - the problem becomes evident. In DK district police, 23 armed police constables (APC) have been promoted to armed head constables (AHC), many AHCs have been promoted as assistant reserve sub-inspectors (ARSI) in the district armed reserve, 30 civil police constables (CPC) to civil head constables (CHC) and 13 CHCs to assistant sub-inspectors (ASI). 
 
  In Mangaluru city police, unit head M Chandra Sekhar promoted 133 CPCs as CHCs and 45 CHCs as ASIs. Overall during 2016, in Mangaluru city police, personnel promoted as CHCs is 225, CHCs to ASI rank 79, ASIs to PSI rank 26 - including two in regular course and rest under rule 32, one APC promoted as AHC, 38 AHCs as ARSIs, totalling it to 369. There were no promotions at the level of ARSIs to reserve sub-inspectors, data sourced by TOI indicates. 
 
  While these promotions will no doubt boost the morale of the force at the lower rung that has been battling adverse service conditions over the years, including limited promotional opportunities, senior police officials are worried at how lower ranks will be put under greater strain with no proportionate augmentation of their strength. 
 
  Depletion of police personnel due to superannuation and other reasons such as death adds to the strain, they said. 
 
  CM Siddaramaiah, on December 8, following a review of the home department had announced promotions to 11,000 police personnels up to the rank of ASIs. 
 
  CM had also stated that government has decided to recruit 26,702 police personnel in the next two years. With state's police recruitment model touted as one of the best in India, it takes a minimum of two years from date of notification to the time that policemen so recruited join their respective police units/detachments. 
 
 
