AHMEDNAGAR: Four men armed with sharp weapons tried to attack three accused arrested in the rape and murder of a minor girl at Kopardi on the premises of the district and sessions court at Ahmednagar around 1 pm on Saturday.

 The accused — Jitendra alias Pappu Shinde (25),   (30) and Nitin Bhailume (28) — were being taken in a police van after a court hearing when the assailants allegedly belonging to Shivba Sanghatna tried to attack them, police said.
 
 The assailants, armed with sharp weapons, tried to attack the accused and, in the process, injured a policeman, but police intervened quickly and took them into custody, said Saurabh Tripathi, superintendent of the Ahmednagar police, told TOI.
 
 “We are investigating the motive behind the attack,” Tripathi said, adding that security on the court premises was increased to prevent such incidents in future.
 
 The assailants, Amol Khune (25) and Ganesh Khune (27), both from Beed, Baburao Walekar (30) and Rajendra Jarad (21), both from Jalna, were charged with committing an offence of attempt to murder, attacking policemen, among other charges, under the Indian Penal Code and Arms Act. Sharp weapons were recovered from them.
 
 Special public prosecutor Ujjwal Nikam told TOI that a platoon of state reserve police force will be deployed on the court premises to regulate entry of visitors and unauthorised persons for security reasons. Security will also be provided to the defence lawyers.
 
 Nikam condemned the incident, but congratulated the policemen for foiling an attack on the accused. “The assailants have been arrested and the law will take its own course,” he said.
 
 “The trial in the case has reached its fag end. I have examined 26 witnesses and the last two investigating officers will be examined on the next date of hearing,” Nikam added.
 
 Defence lawyer Balasaheb Khopade, who represented accused Santosh Bhaval, told TOI that he will file a petition in Aurangabad bench of the   to shift trial from Ahmednagar court to some other district.
 
 The accused had been attacked for the second time even after security was provided, Khopade said, adding that an application was filed by Bhaujan Kranti Morcha leader Anant Lokhande and relative of Bhaval to enhance security of the accused.
 
