MUMBAI: Aspirants have gone a step ahead of their parties for the   this month. They are not waiting for signals from their parties and registering themselves online with the  . Till 6pm on Thursday, 5,135 candidates registered for 227 seats, out of which only 622 filed nominations.

 Registration helps aspirants exert pressure on parties to give them tickets, but they are keeping their options open to contest as independents. 
 
 After registration, they have to submit printouts of the form with an affidavit to the returning officer by 5pm on Friday. They also have to submit a party authorization letter along with the form, or separately, by the same time.
 
 Political parties are delaying the release of lists of their candidates till the last moment to avoid a rebellion, as there are multiple claimants for every seat. They are also poaching senior leaders from other parties after promising them tickets, which may upset their party aspirants.
 
 Parties are adopting this strategy to keep aspirants confused till the last minute and ensure they do not have time to file nominations at the last moment. On the last date, there will be a one-hour gap between closing time of the mandatory online registration and submitting printout copies of the submitted form to the returning officer personally. 
 
 “We have not released the list early for strategical reasons. Many senior party leaders from other parties joined us and many others are in the process,” said BJP spokesperson Niranjan Shetty.
 
 A Congress ticket aspirant from Dindoshi, Sandeep Singh, registered and filed his nomination form after getting a green signal from his party heads, but without party reference. He said he will submit the party’s authorization letter (B form) on Friday. He may face Shiv Sena candidate Bhomsingh Rathod in the election, a three-time Congress corporator who had joined the party recently.
 
 Rathod said, “Our party chief   gave me approval to file the nomination, after which I registered online. I will submit my nomination form with party authorization form on Friday. I left the Congress as there was no clarity over leadership.”
 
 
