HYDERABAD: With the monsoon ban on road digging in   limits ending on September 30, the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) is the first agency to apply for permission. It hopes to work on more than 350km of road length to lay water pipelines. Peripheral circles of GHMC including Serilingampally , Kukatpally, Uppal and Patancheru would be affected. HMWS&SB had earlier dug more than 1,300 km.

 GHMC commissioner B Janardhan Reddy told TOI, “HMWS&SB has taken up a water supply distribution project with Hudco loan of Rs 1,900 crore to lay pipelines for a length of around 2,500 km. During the  , due to ban orders, they stopped digging. Now, as the ban on digging has ended, it has applied to dig more than 350km. We also expect other agencies to make requests." An official of HMWS&SB said ir is still awaiting GHMC nod.
 
 Of the city's 9,100 km road network, almost a quarter of road length has been dug up.“We restored the road network in most places and are yet to do final layering,“ Reddy said. The electricity department is also working on proposals for underground cabling which runs up to 10,000 km to 12,000 km.
 
 Reddy said, “The city has grown horizontally and vertically since 2007 when surrounding municipalities were merged. Digging is must to ensure water supply to all these areas.“
 
 HMWS&SB director (projects-1) M Yellaswamy told TOI, “Around 500km of the pipeline project is left. When a detailed project report was prepared 10 years ago, the pipeline had to be laid over 2,324 km but in between some areas have been connected. So the kilometre length will decrease. For new areas, a separate project report has to be taken up. We have redone roads wherever we dug up. In Malkajgiri we have deposited Rs 40 crore with GHMC for road laying. GHMC has to do it.'
 
 Officials say   project is a separate case altogether. “Locals in Malkajgiri requested us not to   for the second time. They said they would bear the inconvenience for a while," said Janardhan Reddy .
 
