Mohali: A day after TOI reported about heaps of garbage being found in number of areas in the city, thus posing a challenge to the ‘Swachhta Hi Seva’ campaign in Mohali, Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Kaur Sapra directed the teams to cut the   on war footings. She ordered, “Clear Mohali of wild growth and garbage within this week.”

 The third day of the campaign saw active participation of various Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs). They came out in large number to support the campaign in their respective sectors. The residents, however, said that to make this campaign a regular feature in the calendar, MC must help the RWAs and provide them with grass cutting and garbage collecting equipment.
 
 Jasbir Singh, member of Sector 71   said, “Motivation is required to drive people to clean the surroundings. These campaigns can be very useful to keep the surroundings clean. However, RWAs lack proper equipment, which discourages the members to carry out cleaning campaigns on their own. We think such campaigns must not be just for a week. If MC provides equipment, then these kinds of campaigns can be carried out throughout the year.”
 
 Taking forward Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s cleanliness initiative, Swachh Bharat Mission, a nationwide sanitation campaign named ‘Swachhta Hi Seva’ was kicked off on September 15. Sapra believes active public participation is a must to make this campaign a success. “The public should become self-disciplined and keep their surroundings litter-free,” DC said.
 
 DC also informed directions have been given to all enforcement officers and block development officers to seek help from social organisations, Mohalla committees, and other institutions to keep the surroundings clean.
 
 Deputy Mayor Manjit Singh Sethi has also written to the mayor and MC Commissioner seeking action against the company, which is responsible for cleaning the city. In his letter, Sethi stated that the conditions of ward number 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, phase 3B1 and 3BII markets are in “bad conditions”. Road-side garbage dump and even outside houses is quite visible. 
 
 
