Ahmedabad: Leading by example, this Amdavadi business tycoon has chosen his own home to promote  . Billionaire   has installed a solar rooftop power plant at his sprawling residence off SG Road to generate   for daily electricity requirement of the property.

 
 
 Known as Shantivan House, Adani’s bungalow has been using solar power from February 8, 2017. A 53.13 kWp solar rooftop power plant, one of the largest in residential segment across Gujarat, generates around 250 units of electricity daily, which is used to meet power requirement of the residence during daytime.
 
 “I strongly believe that solar power is the most environment friendly and sustainable source of energy,” said Gautam Adani, the chairman of the Adani group. “Setting up of the rooftop solar plant at my own residence is a step in that direction.”
 
 Even from the business point of view, Adani group is making great strides in the renewable energy space, especially in solar power generation. Considering the sustainability and environmental benefits of solar power, the chairman himself took up this initiative to encourage green energy for sustainable lifestyle.
 
 Soon after receiving necessary clearances, the entire solar power generating system was installed within just eight-10 days. As many as 154 solar panels have been mounted on 450 sq mt terrace space of Shantivan House. The project has net metering facility, which also allows the export of surplus power to the grid. The additional power supplied to the grid gets adjusted against the electricity provided by the distribution company to the bungalow.
 
 Interestingly, the project has been installed using in-house design and engineering of the group. Even the solar panels used for the power system are manufactured by the Adani group at its solar equipment manufacturing unit in Kutch.
 
 Such environment conservation initiatives are not new to Adani’s residence, which also has water harvesting systems for daily needs.
 
 Other corporate houses in the city, too, are turning to green energy for meeting their captive power requirement through this sustainable form of energy. Another industrial group from Ahmedabad is also planning to install solar panels at its newly built headquarters in the city. The Centre’s and the state’s policies for solar rooftop energy offer incentives for such plants.
 
 Adani Power Limited, an Adani group company, is the largest private sector thermal power producer in India with installed capacity of 10,480 MW. With its focus on renewable energy, Adani group has developed the world’s largest single-location solar project Kamudhi in Ramanathapuram district of Tamil Nadu. It also runs a 40 MW solar power plant in Bitta, Gujarat, and a 100 MW plant in Punjab. It has also recently signed a JV with the Rajasthan government to develop the country’s largest solar park in the state with a 10,000 MW capacity.
 
 
