GURUGRAM: Simmering discontent against official apathy in the run-up to MCG polls overflowed on Tuesday when   residents announced they will repair roads in their area themselves. Residents have formed a group, which is currently collecting money for the repair work.

 Sushant Lok is one of the privately developed areas that is waiting to be handed over to the MCG for maintenance. But in the interim, neither the developer, nor the civic body, has been doing anything about its civic upkeep. 
 
 The disgruntled residents said they have lost all hope of MCG repairing roads in their area, and after haggling with the corporation for almost a year, will now take up the repair work themselves. “We’ve reminded MCG time and again that the least they should do is re-carpet the four arterial roads in   1, which have to bear heavy traffic load due to one-way traffic around  ,” said Neelu Sharma, a resident.
 
  Because of the heavy traffic, it takes 20-30 minutes just to cross the jam-packed service lane near Vyapar Kendra, she said, adding that while it’s true condition of roads is terrible across the city, it’s especially bad in Sushant Lok 1 where road surfaces have almost entirely crumbled. She also complained of senior citizens receiving injuries while walking on these roads.
 
 “Meetings with every official, whether it be the MCG commissioner or   minister, DTCP or local  , concluded that the authorities can do nothing till MCG takes over the colony’s maintenance. After 20 months of orders by CM for transfer nothing has been done. Finally, we decided to repair arterial roads from our own pockets,” said B N Gupta, another resident.
 
 Residents said at a meeting presided by the then chief minister on February 2, 2016, in which road improvement work was discussed, an order was issued to MCG that repair work could start as soon as colonies are transferred. MCG officials, they said, have been using that as an alibi to delay road repair work. A senior MCG official confirmed, saying, “As per law, we can’t undertake road repairs in an area unless it has first been taken over.” 
 
 Anger among residents has reached boiling point. They refuse to believe in MCG claims, and have said they won’t participate in the forthcoming MCG polls on September 24. “We’ve reiterated that no party should expect votes from Sushant Lok 1 unless satisfactory road repair work is done. On more than one occasion, ruling party representatives have told us they have been assured by the state PWD minister, and that they will only seek votes after roads are rebuilt in our area. We’ll now hold them to their word,” said Jagat Dewan, another resident from the area.
 
