RANCHI: As the dust settles on the unsavoury `Cheatgate' issue, and India and Australia prepare to resume their rivalry in the third Test here, batsmen on either side, who had a harrowing time on the treacherous surfaces in Pune and Bengaluru, can heave a sigh of relief.

 The 22-yard strip that is being readied for the encounter here holds no demons. It is a flat and brown surface that has been well watered and well rolled -something that the pitches in the first two Tests were deliberately deprived of. The pitch at the JSCA International Cricket Stadium here promises to be a slow turner and is expected to last all five days of the Test match, according to the two curators, who have been working tirelessly for the past one week to produce a “good quality Test pitch“.
 
 The well-watered top soil should retain enough moisture to give the new-ball bowlers some advantage on the opening day, but as the surface dries out under the hot sun, it should turn into a batsman's ally for the next two days before the wear and tear bring the spinners into play .
 
 With Ranchi set to be India's 26th Test centre, JSCA officials are clearly not willing to take chances after the Pune pitch was rated poor by the ICC match referee. Interestingly, it might not be such a bad idea to produce a pitch like this as it could end up pleasing everyone.
 
 Team India chief coach Anil Kumble, who knows a thing or two about the subcontinent's slow-turners, had a wry smile. “I don't know whether the match will end in three days or five. I only hope that there will be a result and it will be in our favour,“ Kumble said. Team India captain  , who has endured two nightmarish matches with the bat, would not mind a surface where he can trust the bounce and hit through the line. His team desperately needs runs from him and when he scores, India usually win.
 
 Kohli's opposite number in the Australian camp, Steve Smith, too wouldn't mind a slow turner which he and his batsmen are more familiar with than rank turners the visitors have encountered so far.
 
 Even the umpires won't mind one bit, for it is easier to read the trajectory of deliveries on slower surfaces than where the bounce is uneven. Incidentally, the ICC has made a couple of changes in the line-up here with umpire Richard Illingworth making way for Ian Gould and Richie Richardson re placing Chris Broad as match referee.
 
 Fresh faces bring fresh perspective and the arrival of two new officials should help players of both sides to bury the DRS issues and make a fresh start. A week's break surely helped cool temperatures in the two dressing rooms and the players looked happy and relaxed as they prepared for the battles ahead.
 
 There was heavy demand for local spin bowlers in the Australian nets with just about everyone, including the out of favour Usman Khawaja, spending more time facing tweakers than pacers.
 
 The only time the DRS was mentioned on Tuesday was in jest. An Australian batsman in the far net was struck on his pad, prompting him to `signal' for DRS when the bowler claimed it was out.
 
 The news from the Indian camp is that opener Murali Vijay , who missed the last Test because of a shoulder injury, is fit and batted in the nets without any discomfort.
 
 
