MUMBAI: Striking a conciliatory note vis-a-vis the  , the   offered a hand of friendship to its long-time ally for the   scheduled for next month.

 “Uddhav Thackeray has announced that his party will not team up with the BJP for the Mumbai civic elections.However, the two parties can come together for other civic and zilla parishad elections in the state,“ senior BJP minister   said on Monday .
 
 The BJP bigwigs have asked the state leaders to tone down their criticism of the Sena in order to allay the popular impression that the BJP treats its allies with disdain, according to party sources. Patil also dropped hints that the BJP will join hands with the Sena in the Mumbai municipal corporation after the civic polls. “Let's avoid a vituperative campaign as we both have to team up in the BMC after elections,“ he said.Patil was talking to mediapersons in Kolhapur. He, however, added that Mumbai will have a BJP mayor after the municipal polls.
 
 Patil's soundbytes assume significance for two reasons. First, he enjoys BJP na tional president Amit Shah's trust, it is said. Second, his statement reflects the growing apprehension in the state BJP that the Sena may launch a high-decibel campaign, targeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Shah and Fadnavis, all at one go.“The Sena has Saamna as its vehicle. They will have no compunction while using cheap language to malign their rivals. Saamna had described the PM's demonetisation drive as the most shameful and shocking act after the Jallianwalla Baug massacre,“ said a state BJP functionary .
 
 A Sena MLA was quick to point out that Kirit Somaiya, MP, and Mumbai BJP chief Ashish Shelar have been accusing his party of indulging in rampant corruption in the BMC. “Shelar went to the extent of describing the Sena as a party of Kauravas,“ he said.
 
 
 
 
 Thirty-one nominations have been filed by candidates wanting to contest the 2017 BMC elections so far, of which 16 have been filed in the western suburbs and 10 in the eastern suburbs. The city area saw five nominations being filed. 
 
 
