BHUBANESWAR: The murder of a BJP worker in Dhenkanal district on Saturday resulted in a full-blown political war between the saffron outfit and the BJD. 

 Indicating steel and mines minister  's involvement in the murder of Salman Rout at Tarabha village, the BJP sought his arrest and called for a state-wide protest on Tuesday to press for its demand. 
 
 Addressing a news conference here, BJP spokesperson Sajjan Sharma said the accused involved in the murder are close political associates of Mallik, who is the local MLA (Kamakhyanagar assembly segment). "Mallik is putting pressure on police to hush up the conspiracy behind the killing. Police must bring him under purview of investigation and verify his call details," Sharma said.
 
 Sharma said main accused constable Byomkesh Biswal's uncle is vice-chairman of Kamakhyanagar block while his father is a former sarpanch who all are active BJD members.
 
 Union ministers Jual Oram and   accused the BJD of resorting to violence as a last ditch effort to save its political bastion from falling. "Involvement of a BJD minister is coming to light. The regional party is showing desperation," Jual told reporters.
 
 A BJP statement said the party will hold protest in all sub-divisional headquarters across the state. 
 
 Echoing BJP's sentiments, senior Congress leader and former   member   said the BJD had resorted to arms and ammunition to further its electoral prospects. "It is unacceptable in democracy," he said.
 
 Denying his role in the murder either directly or indirectly, Mallik said the BJP has stooped to new a low for narrow political gains. "A murder has taken place and police are probing it. I am open to be subjected to any probe," the minister said.
 
 BJD spokesperson   said BJD as a political party never believes in violence. The BJP is linking our party with the crime for narrow political interest. The probe will unravel the truth, he said. Police have attributed past enmity between deceased Salman Rout and accused Byomkesh Biswal behind the killing and have arrested Biswal. 
 
