A report by the traf fic police shows a nearly 100% rise in people being caught for using cellphones while driving from 2012 to 2016.

 While 8,311 people were caught for this traffic violation in 2012, as many as 16,523 were caught in 2016.
 
 A more startling fact is that the amount of fines collected for the offence has increased almost 160 times in the same period, from just Rs 6,300 in 2012 to Rs 10 lakh in 2016. Even accounting for the fact that the fine for the offence increased from Rs 100 back then to Rs 200 now, there is a discrepancy between the number of offences and fine collection, but the authorities are looking into that.
 
 The police say people think that talking on phone and driving is no big deal, but what they don't realise is that they are risking their and others' lives. Psychiatrists say motorists and bikers talk on the cellphone, thinking it saves time as work and personal issues can be discussed during a commute; they don't realise that such behaviour leads to accidents.
 
 Last October, the police launched a   to track and fine traffic violators. “Till now, 4,717 CCTV cameras have been installed across Mumbai to record traffic violations,“ said a traffic police officer. “The   where the CCTV challan system will come in handy include signal jumping, talking on cellphone while driving, riding triple seat on a two wheeler, riding without helmet, speeding, driving without seat belt and overstepping the zebra crossing,“ said joint commissioner of police (traffic)  . CCTV challans will also reduce human interference, which at times leads to altercation.
 
 
 
 
 The use of mobile phones by bikers is the cause of a large number of accidents.Such bikers use cellphones in a variety of ways: wedged between the ear and the helmet, between the ear and shoulder with head cocked, using earphones. The method may be different, but what remains the same is that they distract the rider. If a call is urgent, the safe practice would be to pull up at the roadside, say traffic experts.Perhaps the most glaring example of an avoidable accident occurred on July 9, 2012: a 34-year-old biker, who was talking on his cellphone while riding, died after a truck hit him on Shimpoli Link Road, Borivli (west). The truck had tried to overtake him, but he probably didn't realise that the bigger vehicle was trying to do so.
 
