HYDERABAD: Conjoined twins   were shifted to the state-run Shishu Vihar in Ameerpet on Sunday morning by  . The 14-year-olds literally grew up at the hospital where they had been living for over 10 years since being moved from Guntur in May 2006. The unilateral move of the hospital came in for flak from both the parents as well as NGO Helping Hand Foundation.

 While the parents said that they were not opposed to the shifting, it was the manner in which it was done that had hurt them. "They are not orphans. We are still alive. How can the hospital keep us in the dark when they had decided to shift them on Sunday?" asked their father N Murali. Even the Women & Child Welfare department did not bother to inform the parents.
 
 The matter is also sub-judice. NGO Helping Hand Fo undation had filed a PIL in Hyderabad HC urging the court to ensure that Niloufer Hosptial came up with a detailed rehabilitation plan before shifting them to the Shishu Vihar. The NGO also wanted the hospital to explore other avenues before finalising the state home.
 
 Witnesses said that the twins were accompanied by a health inspector and ayah from the hospital during the shifting process. Not surprisingly, one of the twins, Vani, turned homesick and started crying immediately after landing at the children's home from their room at Niloufer. "My wife Nagalakshmi is extremely saddened. Had she accompanied the twins to their new place at the state-run children's home, her presence would have helped them to ad just," an emotional Mu rali told TOI.
 
 The twins had been living in a crammed room on the first floor of Niloufer Hospital which doubled up as their home for more than a decade.
 
 Born on October 15, 2003, at Beerisettyagudam, Narsimhulapetam Mandal, Warangal, through a normal delivery, the twins were first shifted to the Guntur General Hospital Paediatric Surgery Department.
 
 From October 16, 2003, to April, 18, 2006, the twins remained under the care of health staff at the state-run Guntur General Hospital before being shifted to Niloufer hospital in May 2006.
 
 On several occasions, the seperation of the twins was mulled , but plans were dropped for various reasons.
 
 
