The art classroom in  , which was the venue for a screening of a photo-film on Carnatic vocalist  , was teeming with admirers who turned up in large numbers to learn more about the iconic singer. After the screening of an exclusive collection of photographs by  , MS’ grand niece,   took the stage to give the audience a glimpse into the lesser-known aspects of ‘Kunjaamma’, as she was fondly called. The crowd was delighted, to say the least. Excerpts: 

 
 Yes, MS remains one of the greatest Carnatic musicians of all time, but she was also one of the most inspired interpreters of the written word. She sang in a total of 13 languages, including Sankrit, Urdu, Punjabi, Gujarati, Bengali and more. Her imagination was stirred not only by the melodic textures of the ragas, but the lyrics as well. In her notebooks, every composition was accompanied by musical notations, the literal meaning of the verse, as well as other interpretations. at the end of it all, there would also be a note with the metaphorical meaning of the song. She found layers and layers of meaning in poetry, which was reflected powerfully and spontaneously in her renditions. Take for instance, the Annamacharya Sankeerthanam, Dolayam, where the poet talks about seeing Lord Balaji. When MS sang it, you could hear the genuine joy and wonder that the poet expressed, in her voice.
 
 
 
 In 1938, MS began her career in films with Sevasadanam, in which she played a young wife Sumathi, who is kicked out of the house by her husband, and joins the freedom movement, devoting her life to running an institution for girl children. That’s when, for the first time, Kunjamma, a young woman from a traditional Devadasi community, came across the idea that a woman can be independent, serve people around her and reform things. She would go on to apply that to her entire life thereafter.
 Then came Meera, in 1945, in which she, a South Indian woman, played a Rajasthani princess. This was dubbed into Hindi in 1947, catapulting her into national fame. In fact, MS was the only Carnatic musician who 
 conquered the North, they said. 
 
 
 
 At the premiere of Meera (Hindi) in Delhi, the who’s who of the country were present. The Last Viceroy of India (Lord Mountbatten) was all praises for MS. Nehru was also present, and Indira Gandhi too. Nehru famously said, “Who am I, a mere Prime Minister before a Queen, a Queen of music.” In fact, at a time when Hindustani classical musicians didn’t care much about their Carnatic counterparts, she managed to impress some of the biggest stalwarts from the North. famed Hindustani vocalist   called her ‘Suswaralakshmi’ (meaning, the goddess of the perfect note). I remember, at one of her concerts, there was this one man, who kept jumping rows to get a good glimpse of her. It turned out that he was the legendary vocalist Pt Omkarnath Thakur. She’d later remarked to me, “Beedi adichit vandach...” (He was reeking of beedi smell).
 
 
