MELBOURNE: Tennis draws are not examination papers, but they can sometimes hit you with the force of one, bearing an uncomfortable likeness to a curricular questionnaire you're not quite prepared for. The men's and women's draws of the   - a ceremonial affair for which the defending champions Serb  , flaunted normcore, and  , a little black dress - fall in that category. Punctuated with queries.

 For instance, does   - the world No.1 who lost to the man he displaced from the top of the men's rankings, Novak Djokovic, in Doha last week - have it in him to win his first title here after five campaigns ended in losses in the title round, particularly if the Scot comes up against the Serb in the final? The world No. 2, looking for an unprecedented seventh crown here, may have lost his temper at the Qatari capital, but he kept his nerve to score a rough-tough win over the Briton. Was that a precursor to the season then or just a curtain raiser, signalling fluctuations? Djokovic plays Spain's Fernando Verdasco in his opening essay which might've gone under the radar had the 33-year-not not held five match points against the defending champion last week.
 
 In an interview earlier this week, Djokovic warned: “I can't replicate anything that I've experienced as a player or as a person in any of those previous years, but that doesn't mean I cannot do exactly the same or even better.”
 
 For  , the 14-time Grand Slam champion, logged in the top quarter of the bottom half of the draw, starting against the big-serving Florian Mayer, ranked 49th, it is one match at a time. After encouraging early wins in Brisbane, where the talk matched the tennis, Nadal went down to Canada's Milos Raonic in a three-setter. The result posing questions on the Spaniard's confidence, again.
 
 Roger Federer, whose seeding is the same as the number of Grand Slams titles he has won, 17, the lowest it has been at Melbourne Park, opens against a qualifier. He could play another qualifier in the second round.
 
