HYDERABAD: Actor Suman has been roped in by the agriculture department to play the lead role in a short film titled ' '. The idea of the five-minute film is to publicise the various decisions, steps and policies the TRS government has undertaken for the welfare of farmers. 

 On Tuesday, the shooting of the film commenced with agriculture minister   sounding the clap board. The short film is intended to be telecast in all theatres to create more awareness about the benefits being provided to farmers. Suman plays an agricultural officer in the film. Directed by A Sridhar, the film is expected to be released in the first week of June.
 
 At the shooting which began at the   at Rajendranagar, university vice-chancellor   and water management corporation chairman V Prakash were also present. During the separate Telangana agitation led by  , actor Suman had lent him his support.
 
 The need for making the film was felt for more reasons than one. Though the CM fulfilled the election promise of waiving farm loans up to 17,000 crore, it was being felt in party circles that this should be driven into minds of the farmers and public. 
 
 KCR subsequently announced that the government would provide a financial assistance of 8,000 per farmer per year to meet the cost of fertilizers or other expenditure related to farming. He also clarified both at the TRS plenary in Hyderabad and the TRS formation day celebrations at Warangal, both held last month, that the amount would be provided for any number of acres of farm land the farmer possessed. Brushing aside questions about how this could possibly be done, KCR even wanted the Centre to provide the same sops to farmers across the country. 
 
 In recent weeks, incidents of chilli farmers being handcuffed and taken to court in Khammam came in handy for the opposition to launch an attack against the government. Though the CM had asked his MLAs and party leaders to give wide publicity to what the government was doing for farmers, it was felt a film would help boost the party's image.
 
