AMRITSAR: A few days after directing the   to investigate the alleged objectionable   performed by the  , the   has sought suggestions from Sikh intellectuals and religious bodies over the incident in three days.

 Akal Takht jathedar Giani Gurbachan Singh told TOI on Monday that Sikh high priests would be meeting on May 5 to discuss the performing of havan and conducting of initiation ceremony by seven baptized Namdhari women. He said the clergy had decided to take opinion from Sikhs spread across the globe and for the purpose they had sought suggestions from intellectuals, Singh sabhas, societies and other religious and educational bodies. “We have given them an e-mail and have asked them to send their suggestions before May 5, so that the Sikh priests could contemplate in the light of worldwide suggestions from the community members,” he stated.
 
 About a week ago, Akal Takht had directed the Dharam Parchar Committee of the SGPC to investigate the alleged objectionable religious rituals of the Namdhari sect following reports of havan and an initiation ceremony undertaken by seven baptized women of the Namdhari sect. The jathedar said that the ritual was in violation of Sikh traditions and was not acceptable.
 
 Sources seeking anonymity said the Akal Takht decision was politically motivated, especially given its timing. “The credibility of the Sikh clergy is under question, especially after former jathedar of Takht Kesgarh Sahib Giani Gurmukh Singh openly admitted to political pressure while taking decisions on religious issues. Besides, the jathedars appointed by the Sarbat Khalsa have also lowered the significance of SGPC-appointed jathedars and have instead emerged as a parallel group. The move is to divert attention of Sikh masses from the question raised on the integrity of SGPC-appointed Sikh high priests by raking up a sensitive issue,” the sources added, saying that it would be improbable to receive worldwide reactions on a sensitive issue within three days.
 
 
