MUMBAI: From next year (2018), the state government has decided to raise the standard of the state   ( ) for admissions to engineering colleges to make it on par with the   (JEE).

 In a government resolution issued by the higher and technical education department, the state has also asked the Maharashtra Board of School and Higher Secondary Education to make efforts to upgrade their curriculum in class XII. The move will make it easier for students to prepare for both the state as well as the national-level tests, including JEE and NEET.
 
 Dayanand Meshram, joint director of Directorate of Technical Education (DTE), said the government has decided to have the difficulty level, pattern and standard of state CET 2018-19 for engineering and pharmacy as that of the national test-JEE (Main).“The GR states that the state board should take steps to improve their syllabus, exam pattern and evaluation kee ping in view this decision.Students will, therefore, be prepared well for JEE any time by just preparing for the CET,“ said Meshram. The government has ta ken into account the chaos due to the eleventh hour implementation of NEET for medical admissions last year. “Several students lagged behind on the merit list as they were not prepared for the national-level test. Not only was the test content based on CBSE syllabus, the pattern and difficulty level of the test was also different from the state medical CET. The students got just three months to prepare for the second phase of NEET,“ said an official.
 
 The Union ministry of human resource development (MHRD) has already decided to conduct a single entrance test for all engineering admissions at the undergraduate level from 2018-19 to standardize the testing process. The   (AICTE) is yet to issue a regulation to this effect. However, an official from the DTE said that the state can take a final call on participating in the national-level test if it is not imposed.
 
 
 
 
 Mumbai: The Supreme Court on Friday issued notices to the central government and the   seeking responses on why Urdu is not included as a medium for NEET 2017 for admissions to medical and dental colleges. The court also issued notices to Dental Council of India (DCI) and the CBSE and has decided to hear the matter again on March 10.
 
