JAIPUR: The city has got another chance to improve its ranking in the list of cleanest cities of the country under ‘Swachh Suvekshan-2017’.

 As part of ‘Swachh Suvekshan-2017’, 500 cities and towns across country will be assessed and ranked based on levels of sanitation and efforts made by their respective urban local bodies towards the same. It would also capture their progress towards achieving ‘open defecation free’ status. Twenty-nine cities from Rajasthan will be inspected and ranked under this.
 
 It is for this purpose, Quality Council of India (QIC) team is expected to visit the state on January 27 to conduct inspections of the city. 
 
 Sources said that chief minister   had given target to Jaipur mayor Ashok Lahoti to bring Jaipur in the top 10 cities of the state. As the date of inspection by QIC team is drawing nearer, Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) has stepped up its preparation for the survey. In 2016, survey was conducted in 73 cities of the country under which Jaipur stood at rank 29, Jodhpur at 57, and Kota at rank 58. 
 
 Officials said that the QIC team is likely to conduct inspections in Ajmer, Alwar, Jaipur, Kota, Bhiwadi, Nagaur and Sikar from January 27-29. From January 30 to February1, it will visit Baran, Beawar, Bharatpur, Bhilwara, Bundi, Jhalawar and Tonk. From February 2-4, inspections will be carried out in Bikaner, Chittorgarh, Churu, Dholpur, Gangapur City, Hindaun, Jhunjhunu and Kishangarh. The QIC team will visit Ganganagar, Hanumangarh, Jodhpur, Pali, Sawai Madhopur, Sujangarh and Udaipur from February 5-7. 
 
 Officials said that cities will be ranked based on the reports by urban local bodies on the progress made towards construction of toilets, feedback of citizens and independent observation of sanitation levels. Cities with a population of one lakh and above, heritage and tourism cities, capital cities with less than one lakh population are included in this survey, which is the second since the launch of Swachh Bharat Mission.
 
 
