JAIPUR: A private hotel in   area remained sealed on Monday after the owner was allegedly caught red-handed throwing non-vegetarian leftovers in the nearby surroundings.

 The hotel was sealed on Sunday midnight and occupants were forced to vacate the hotel. The   (JMC) administration claimed that the hotel was operating without obtaining desired licences. Also, it was disposing waste in the open without procuring green license.
 
 The action was taken after hundreds of ‘gau rakshaks’ including ward number 25 councillor Nirmala Sharma protested at the hotel in Kanti Nagar area for several hours on Sunday. They alleged that beef was found in the garbage dump outside.
 
 City mayor Ashok Lahoti said, “The hotel will remain sealed till the owner does not procure licences from JMC. Several complaints in the past were also received from neighbours that the hotelier is dumping non-vegetarian leftovers in the open. We are also investigating if the owner was serving beef or not.”
 
  (JBHA), which came in support of the hotel owner criticized JMC action. The association members also met police commissioner and city mayor on Monday. JBHA vice-president   said, “ Rajasthan is famous worldwide for its hospitality. Forcing tourists to vacate hotel at midnight sends out a wrong message. The JMC should have taken action after issuing notices.”
 
 He added, “The small hoteliers are willing to deposit money to obtain licenses since long. However, the state government is not allowing them due to various technical issues.”
 
 Assistant commissioner of police   said that a case was filed by a few people on Sunday against the hotel under Section 295 A (injuring or defiling place of worship). The cops said that samples collected from the ground were sent to the forensic lab.
 
 Two people, the manager of the hotel and the man found dumping the garbage, who were booked under Section 151 of CrPC (arrest to prevent the commission of cognizable offences) were released on bail on Monday.
 
 
