GURUGRAM: With exposure to many live events from around the world, sport in India is no longer about hockey or cricket. And for Indian basketball, these are potentially exciting times, thanks to live NBA games being beamed into Indian homes, and the outreach efforts of the   (USA).

 Now, beginning April 9 and continuing till May 18, Gurgaon’s most talented young   will be showing off their offensive and defensive skills, in the inaugural district junior   league. The action takes place on the courts of Presidium School and  , the host venues. Overall, 400 boys and girls, in the under-12 and under-15 age categories, will be turning out for 40 sides (20 in each category, divided into 10 teams each of boys and girls).
 
 The organisers are keen on avoiding mismatches, and are going all out to encourage nip-and-tuck contests in the league. So, no one side will be able to dominate another. “We’re keeping the teams of equal strength, for that will make the league competitive and appealing for the kids, and will also keep interest alive till the end,” revealed Om Vir, general secretary of the district basketball association and league.
 
 With talent spread out like this, there is less chance of seeing heavy reversals, results that can easily deflate the kids’ morale and confidence. 
 
 Each team will play nine games in the round-robin phase, which will be followed by a straight knockout, including quarters, semis and the final. A cash prize of Rs 1 lakh awaits the winners, Rs 50,000 the runners-up, and Rs 25,000 the side that finishes third. “To my knowledge, this league is the first of its kind in India,” Om Vir claims.
 
 “I don’t think any organiser has found so much time, or given so much time, to a basketball league. And neither has any league seen participation from so many kids.” 
 
 Can the new competition unearth a Gursimran ‘Sim’ Bhullar or a Satnam Singh Bhamara? These strapping lads might not have set the NBA alight, but they have shown the way for India’s hoopsters. 
 
