NAGPUR: In a bid to give push to tourism opportunities in the region, the Vidarbha Economic Council organized a brainstorming session ‘Tourism beyond Tiger’ on Saturday at its office. Participating in the activity were various stakeholders and also regional officials of MTDC. 

 Making the opening remarks, Devendra Parekh, president of VED, said tourism promotion for Vidarbha needed to look beyond wildlife if more opportunities had to be explored. 
 
 Addressing the session, founder president of VED Vilas   said that in the western countries huge opportunities are created out of small assets. But, here, in Vidarbha, there was lot of potential waiting to be tapped. 
 
 “Around the 12 tiger reserves in the region there are at least 17 destinations that can be developed to prolong the stay of a tourist. We need to explore unique experiences around the regular ones that wildlife tourism offers,” he said while displaying a map of tiger country that he has prepared.
 
 Looking beyond the jungles of Tadoba, places like Markanda, Hemalkasa, Sironcha and SEARCH project in   district can be explored too. “Wildlife tourist stay for barely two nights and many are not even interested in the second safari. We need to fill this gap by developing unique experiences in areas like Chaprala and Sironcha where the Godavari and Pranhita rivers meet,” said Kale.
 
 A day trip comprising the Gandhi circuit in Wardha, Kachargarh caves in Gondia, adventure tourism and mountain treks all needed to be developed further by engaging local people and private enterprise, he suggested.
 
 Tapping the vast potential offered by aggro tourism, Kale said that more activities like orange and hurda parties during season could attract tourist. “The infrastructure is very rudimentary at the moment. We also need knowledgeable guides who can hold the interest of tourist especially if we have to organize visits to places like Gau Vidyan Anusandhan,” he said.
 
 Suggestions to develop activities like stargazing and zip-ling at   fort at Chikaldhara were given by the participants which included various tour operators. The idea of organizing high spending activities like marathons and duathlon of international scale at Chikhaldara was also mooted to attract foreign tourist. 
 
 Discussions were also made regarding the untapped potential of Lonar crater in Buldhana district where facilities for tourists were still abysmal. “Plenty of unique experiences can be created here like making an open air geological show as the area had a wide variety of stones,” said Kale, while appreciating the idea of making it a Vaishnav tourist circuit as four Balaji temples existed in this area.
 
 
