Kutupalang Camp, Cox’s Bazar ( ):   sat in stony silence in one corner of the makeshift camp for Rohingya refugees, glazed eyes staring at nothing. She seemed oblivious to the bustle in the camp as a fresh wave of refugees arrived, carrying with them scars and hopes. The horr-ors of the recent past had simply left her traumatised and numb.

 Akhira’s husband and in-laws were hacked before her eyes. Masked men armed with guns and machetes beheaded them after looting everything that the villagers had. That they were Hindus, minorities among  , didn’t matter. In Myanmar’s Rakhine state, violence and persecution obliterated religious boundaries. Hindu wom-en were raped and killed before their villages were burnt.
 
 At Fakir Bazar, the village where Akhira went to live after her marriage less than a year ago, the masked men did not spare a single male member. The blood, gore and brutality that she witnessed were overwhelming. “Hadi felay (They kill everyone),” she whispered, not addressing anybody in particular. Akhira can’t even recount how she — carrying a four-month life in her womb — managed the crossing to Bangladesh across the unending hilly terrain, treacherous jungle tracts and turbulent waters. But she did finally make it to Merinja opposite Naikhong Chari in Chittagong and is now housed in Hindupara, a Hindu settlement within the Kutupalang Camp.
 
 Rikha Dhar, another refugee in Hindupara, could narrate with difficulty the fate that befell them a few weeks ago in their homeland. Her husband, who owned a gold shop in Myanmar’s Fakir Bazar, was tortured by masked men till he disclosed where he had hidden the jewellery. Once he did though, they slit his throat. 
 
 “My husband told them about the jewellery when they threatened to kill our children. They then took him blindfolded tow-ards the hills. When we were fleeing, we found his blood-soaked body along with those of hundreds of others,” she shuddered. 
 
 The masked men, the survivors at the camp feel, are not from the armed forces. They could speak the Rakhine dialect and, faces hidden behind scarves, they spread terror in villages with Hindu settlements. 
 
 “The gun-totting masked men came one Thursday afternoon and drove us into our homes. For the next six days, they did not allow anyone to come out of their houses. On the seventh day, when they left for a neighbouring village, we feld,” said Bijay Ram, who managed to escape along with 120 other Hindu families from Oti Roah village in Myanmar. While treking through the jungle, they found Akhira, Rikha and six other women with children. 
 
 “We found them wandering aimlessly,” said Swapan Sharma Roni, member of   (III), a block-level body. “In the past few years, we have not seen any Hindu refugee crossing the border to enter Bangladesh. It seems no Rohingyas were spared this time,” Roni said.
 
 The cold horror in the eyes of survivors like Akhira and Rikha reflect the tragedy they have suffered. “I have seen the porch of my home stained with the blood of my kin. There is no more strength left in me even to cry,” said Rikha. 
 
 
