NEW DELHI: A wily and deft politician, Mian   is not immune to playing the Kashmir card as he did after the death of   leader  . But he did show an inclination to better ties with India.

 The impulse, even if haltingly pursued, marked the efforts of the civilian government to push normalisation in ties, which Sharif ’s aides feel the leader had come around to believe a necessity in the interests of Pakistan and, more particularly, his province of Punjab as it could benefit from border trade.
 
 These possibilities will remain untested as the judiciary and Pakistan’s powerful military came together to unseat the civilian government and humiliate Sharif, who is closest to being a pan-Pakistan leader.
 
 As with most politicians who make it to the top in Pakistan, Sharif has not been averse to strike deals with the army and his initial ascent was seen as blessed by a Punjabi-dominated army. 
 
 But as he grew in stature as PM, he sought greater control over the levers of power; possibly a grave error of judgment.
 
 Despite the military’s veto on relations with India, Sharif ’s bid to engage India, including hosting PM   for a politically risky lunch in Lahore in 2015, was a hopeful enterprise until jihadis despatched by the Pakistan army to carry out attacks in India put paid to the peace moves.
 
 His dethronement is likely to strongly discourage any successor to essay serious talks with India and gestures are unlikely to go much beyond exchange of fishermen and the occasional civilian who strays across the border.
 
 Though the Pakistan army is seen to have brought Sharif down, it is not expected to take up the reins of government directly as the country’s problems, not the least its economic management, are extremely challenging and the generals may be happy with a political buffer who understands his place in the pecking order.
 
 In the past, the premise that a military dictator can better deliver the goods in terms of ties with India has not always held true.
 
 Former president   has claimed that he was close to an understanding with former PM   before, ironically enough, the Supreme Court turfed him out.
 
 The theory will remain untested as the essential DNA of the Pakistan army has shown no signs of change and the institution — despite lack of military success against India and the baleful effect it has on democracy in Pakistan — is wedded to a hostile policy against its eastern neighbour.
 
 In the immediate scenario, India-Pakistan relations are not expected to move beyond the routine and in fact could be rocky given the Pakistan army’s efforts to stoke terrorism and separatism in Kashmir.
 
