MUMBAI: The state government has finally unveiled the City Taxi Scheme, which aims to streamline rules for app-based cabs in the state. It will, for the first time, bring all aggregator cabs like Ola and Uber under government regulation and they will now have to obtain a fresh licence to operate in Maharashtra.

 The government also plans to control the fares, although the fare structure is yet to be recommended by a four-member panel. Commuter groups have been opposing any “drastic control” on fares as aggregator cabs have been the best alternative to the black-and-yellow taxis, which are notorious for refusals, badly behaved drivers and dirty cabs. The fares offered by the air-conditioned Ola and Uber are the lowest among all cab services in Mumbai.
 
 The new scheme will now allow the black-and-yellow taxis to join the app-based scheme and operate as aggregators.
 
 One of the major decision that was taken in the policy is that the state transport department, which is headed by   minister Diwakar Raote, has prescribed a common colour code for all the app-based cabs. The colour in the policy is daffodil yellow, but the prototype which they presented was more close to saffron colour, Sena's identity. Raote also sanctioned similar coloured auto-rickshaws for women in the state.
 
 The crux of the policy, which is also the most debated clause, was the decision on price fixation and the cap on surge pricing has been skirted for now. Raote said that a four-membered committee has been formed under the chairmanship of retired IAS officer BC Khatua, which has representation by a lawyer, chartered accountant and former transport commissioner. "They will study all the pricing models and will suggest a minimum and maximum fare which a cab aggregator can charge. There will also a cap on surge pricing. We will not allow cabs to charge whatever they feel like from now on. The report should be out in one month," said Raote.
 
 The new scheme makes it mandatory for all app-based cab aggregators to have 24X7 control rooms, a display board which will show the route and fares inside the cab and will also make it mandatory for cab owners to install panic buttons.
 
 The policy also allows for migration of black and yellow taxis to app-based taxi networks on the same taxi permit that they currently have, no additional fee will be charged. Officials said that taxis which plan to make the switch will have adhere to all the norms under this scheme. Another issue which may not find favour from the
 
 aggregators is the clause which demands that a driver of an   obtain a special permit and different permit rates will be charged for small, medium and large taxis, currently drivers can drive an app based cab on just a commercial driving licence.
 
 Sources in the aggregator firms objected to a few clauses in the announced scheme. This includes the push towards more premium cars and the 'steep' permit fees. Said a source : "Existing taxi (Kaali Peeli) drivers are feeling the pressure from services of aggregator cabs. But the answer is to level the playing field by reducing today's burdensome regulations -- not to introduce rules that will be bad for riders and drivers. The new rule suggests that ride sharing apps should ensure 30% of cars on the platform are over 1400 CC capacity. This push towards more premium cars will mean more economical and fuel efficient being pushed out from the platform. It will also take away freedom and flexibility of drivers to have the vehicle of their choice, forcing them to buy more expensive cars which will in turn push up fares."
 
 Drivers of aggregator cabs like Ola and Uber have also opposed the new permit fee of Rs 2.61 lakh for above 1400 CC engine cabs. "This will make it unviable for driver partners to operate, restricting the number of people who can join the platform. This would also mean higher wait times and prices for riders as reliability of service will suffer," the source pointed out.
 
 Also, in case of switching to clean fuel, it may take nearly six months for transition of hundreds of existing cabs
 
 from diesel to CNG, and this means the actual implementation of the policy could be prolonged, sources added.
 
 The new rules are expected to be commuter-friendly and guarantee safety and security, specially for women travelling alone late in the night. Since the aggregator firms will have to take a new licence, the licensing authority can now keep a check on every driver providing the service. "The licensing authority may, after giving an opportunity of being heard to the licencee (aggregator), suspend or cancel the licence if an employee of the licensee or driver of vehicle attached to the licensee is guilty of any misbehavior or misconduct with any passenger; or, a complaint against the licensee by any passenger has been proved beyond reasonable doubt, the licensing Authority may suspend the license for a specified period or cancel the license," said an official.
 
 Citizens who spoke to this newspaper said that the present aggregator cab model should stay as it assures 24x7 availability of cabs, with comfortable AC rides from doorstep to destination and at affordable rates.
 
 "The fare is as low as Rs 8 per km. Now with government regulating fare, it could rise,'' feared Anjali Joshi, a regular commuter. The aggregators said they simply functioned as a technology platform -- providing taxis in your vicinity based on demand. According to Uber sources, surge pricing was an "effective algorithm" to ensure more cabs are on roads, and the pricing encouraged more drivers to cater to the demand from riders.
 
 Sources in transport department said that the new scheme will come into effect after a detailed notification is published in a few days.
 
 
 
 
