PATNA: Working   will have a new hostel, ‘Samarpan’, from next month. It is being set up by   ( ) under ‘Mukhya Mantri Narishakti Yojna’ on   in SK Puri locality of the city.

 “The building housing the hostel will be a resource centre of the corporation. It is undergoing renovation. It will be ready by the end of this month. Boarders will be able to move into the hostel from June,” WDC project director Rupesh Kumar Sinha said.
 
 The 40-bed hostel will be equipped with facilities such as Internet, 2 TV sets with DTH connections, cooler in all the rooms and water geysers in all the bathrooms. It will have 4 CCTV cameras for security purposes. Every floor will have a water filter. The mess will be airconditioned. A nominal rate will be charged, inclusive of all these facilities. “The rent will be fixed soon by the sub-divisional officer,” he said.
 
 Pragya, a corporate employee living in a private hostel on Boring Road, is happy to know about the new state-owned hostel opening up in her locality. “I believe a government-maintained hostel will have more security than a private hostel. For working women living away from home, security, good food and clean accommodation are the main criteria. And, if one is getting all this at a nominal rate, there is nothing like that,” she said.
 
 Samarpan is being opened in place of ‘Akansha’ that had started functioning in February 2015 in the same lane. But it had been dismantled in October 2015 as it encountered many problems.
 
 Sinha said the monthly budget for ‘Akansha’ was Rs50,000 per month. “But after one year, the agency handling its maintenance found the budget insufficient and proposed Rs96,000, which was quite high. The landlord was also creating nuisance by cutting power and water supply to the hostel to pressurize us. We proposed to the agency to shift the hostel to a new premises. By the time we talked to the board of directors and the state government, the agency had already filed a case in the Patna high court. But the HC rejected their case as we had already provided them with a solution,” said Sinha. 
 
 Hostel ‘Akansha’ was a 50-bed facility, but only 21 girls were enrolled there. Asked about the reason, Sinha said many women did not want to adhere to the hostel rules.
 
 According the N Vijaya Laxmi, MD of Women Development Corporation, the idea is to encourage and provide state of the art lodging facility for working women from across the state who come to the capital for jobs.
 
 Another working women hostel had been opened in   along with the one in Patna. But it closed as there was no admission.
 
