MUMBAI: Narrow shoulder lanes, or their absence, is the biggest killer on the Mumbai-Pune   as speeding vehicles often ram into heavy vehicles parked in the extreme left or right lanes. 

 According to a recent   study, carried out with  , an average of 19 people die every year and 66 are injured in mishaps as shoulder lanes, which could cushion the impact of a mishap, are either too narrow or don’t exist. The next big killers are concrete structures on roadsides or towards the median, steep slope on the roadside, poor signages and sharp road curvature. Each of these factors account for at least five to six fatalities every year, reveals the   conducted between 2015-16, after analyzing every mishap on the Expressway in the past 15 years. 
 
 “We have decided to fit safety barriers along the road as well on the median, besides putting up new overhead signboards which will be clearly visible. MSRDC has awarded a Rs 72-crore contract for the purpose,” a senior MSRDC official told TOI. “Most of the vision obstructions on the Expressway are at sharp curves and are created by bushes on the roadside/median. By eliminating vision obstruction, the driver’s sight distance increases and it allows the driver to react to critical situations well in time,” he added. However, addressing the issue of shoulder lanes will take a while, an official said. For now, MSRDC plans to create a new parallel tunnel road in the ghat section of the Expressway which lacks shoulder lanes.
 
 The “shoulder” is an area at the side of a road that provides vehicles space to stop in an emergency without affecting traffic. The Expressway has long sections with no shoulders (ghat section), in others the shoulders are wide only on one side and narrow on the median side, an official said. Also, vehicles which lose control hit the concrete structures built at many locations, resulting in intensive damage to the vehicles and fatal or serious injuries to their occupants, a senior MSRDC official said.
 
 The joint study was aimed at identifying infrastructural factors influencing accidents, quantify them, determine suitable safety measures and identify the locations of ambulances, traffic posts and hospitals along the Expressway. “Gaps-in-medians along the Expressway have been provided for emergency and road maintenance vehicles. But their improper design create traffic conflicts between road users wanting to take a U-turn and other motorists,” the study stated.
 
 “Yellow and black curb stones can be seen at many sections of the Expressway on both sides of the roadway. These stones are installed to serve the purpose of delineation and give drivers an idea of the road edge. They may look small and harmless, but curb stones cause significant damage to vehicles when they run off the road and also result in injuries to the occupants,” the study adds.
 
 
