CHANDIGARH:   is treating their 'do-or-die' league encounter against Rising Pune Supergiant as a "virtual final", said legspinner  .

 Kings XI, who were struggling until a week back, brought their campaign back on track with back-to-back wins against two top teams - Mumbai Indians and Kolkata Knight Riders.
 
 From 13 matches, the Glenn Maxwell-led side has registered seven wins with 14 points and they play their last league game against Supergiant, who have 16 points from eight wins out of a total of 13 games which they have played. As against Kings XI's net run rate of +0.296, Supergiant have NRR of -0.083.
 
 When asked what will be his team's approach for Sunday's do-or-die game, the 23-year-old Tewatia said: "In a way the upcoming game is going to be a final for us; we will play our best cricket and hope for the best result," Tewatia told PTI over phone. "We will approach this game like the way we have been doing so in our last few matches. We cannot remain dependent on how the opposition plays; we will have to play our best game," Tewatia said.
 
 The legspinner played his maiden match of   this season four days back against Kolkata Knight Riders in Mohali, which KXIP won by 14 runs. Alongside bowlers like Ishant Sharma, Sandeep Sharma, Mohit Sharma, Matt Henry and Axar Patel, Tewatia's inclusion in the side has added more teeth to the Kings XI bowling.
 
 After posting 167/6, Kings XI restricted   to 153/6, with Tewatia turning out to be the most successful bowler with figures of 4-0-18-2 that included the prized wicket of KKR skipper Gautam Gambhir. Even in the high-scoring match against Mumbai Indians played in which Kings XI had set a target of 231 runs, Tewatia gave away only 17 runs in his two overs claiming the wicket of opposition skipper Rohit Sharma. KXIP won that match by seven runs.
 
 When asked that he got to play this season straightaway in a high pressure match against KKR, Tewatia said: "I was waiting for the opportunity. Our dressing room atmosphere is such that players give confidence to each other, especially Virender Sehwag (when one is waiting on the bench).
 
 "When I played my first game, I had a chat with Sehwag which gave me a lot of confidence. There was no pressure as such on me. I just had to express myself with my performance, which I did."
 
 When asked whether T20 is a tough task for bowlers: Tewatia, who does not hesitate to flight the deliveries up, said: "Legspinner are gamechangers for the team. If he provides his team early breakthroughs, then it changes the momentum in the favour of his team."
 
 "According to me, all legspinners look to provide breakthrough for the team, which raises the chances of changing the game in your favour. Legspinners mostly are wicket-taking bowlers. I also try to do the same and provide breakthrough for my team," he said.
 
 Asked if there was any bowler in particular whom he follows, Tewatia said: "I follow all legspinners trying to incorporate good things into my bowling which I learn from them. Like, I play for Haryana, where Yuzvendra Chahal is part of the team, I draw inspiration from him. But I don't copy any particular style."
 
 Tewatia also receives guidance from Mohit Sharma.
 
 "Mohit Sharma, who is our key bowler in Kings XI Punjab, also helps me a lot. Mohit also captains the Haryana team in domestic cricket. Here in IPL also, we play for the same team. He knows my strengths and keeps telling me what ball to bowl in a particular situation, which helps," Tewatia said. 
 
