CHENNAI: With the legislators’ strength clearly in favour of Sasikala, O Panneerselvam ( ) is trying to cash in on the public sentiment and the Centre’s sympathy.

 Indicating that he had divulged only 10% of inside details of   affairs after Jayalalithaa’s death, he reiterated that he would withdraw his resignation if people so wished and prove the majority in the House. He said he would also go to the people seeking justice. Obviously, OPS is in no hurry to convene the assembly or prove his strength as delay in governor’s action will only give him time to garner strength.
 
 Two sitting MLAs – K Manickam of Sholavandan and V C Arukutti of Kavundampalayam – and Rajya Sabha MP V Maitreyan have extended support to him for the time being. Other prominent leaders who visited his hosue include Jayalalithaa's classmate and former MLA Badar Sayeed, former electricity minister Natham Viswanathan, former MLA Parithi Ilamvazhuthi and former minister K C Munusamy.
 
 “I will call on governor Ch Vidyasagar Rao whenever he comes to Chennai,” he told mediapersons. He asserted that he was completely in charge of the administration though none of his cabinet colleagues were with him. Asked about the number of MLAs who were supporting him, OPS said he was confident of proving the majority in the assembly “if the governor asks me to do so”. He said he would not seek support of the DMK or offer support to that party to form the government. “I have been following Amma’s (Jayalalithaa’s) footsteps and I will continue to do that,” he said.
 
 OPS said he would soon tour the state and explain to people the “good work” done by Jayalalithaa. “I will visit all streets and villages in the state and meet people. I will also invite Jayalalalithaa’s niece Deepa Jayakumar to work with us,” said Panneerselvam.
 
 He denied that the BJP or the DMK had any role in his outbursts. There was no backing from the NDA government at the Centre, he said.
 
 On Tuesday, Panneerselvam had made a dramatic appearance at Jayalalithaa’s memorial and after meditating at her place of burial on the Marina for 40 minutes, had dropped a bombshell stating that he was forced by Sasikala and senior party leaders to resign as CM.
 
 He said he was called to the Poes Garden on Sunday and Sasikala, her family members as well as some senior ministers in his cabinet forced him to resign. “I argued for 2 hours and even asked for time to visit the Marina memorial of Amma, but they said that I could go to the memorial later on,” said Panneerselvam.
 
 
