JAIPUR: Rajasthan’s   (PCPNDT) cell arrested a government doctor from Gujarat and also brought along the   which the doctor allegedly used for  .

 It was the fifth decoy operation conducted in Gujarat by Rajasthan’s PCPNDT cell sleuths in Radanpur of Patan late on Thursday evening. “We seized a sonography machine from the government’s community health centre in Radanpur. Also, two agents of the doctor have been arrested,” PCPNDT state appropriate authority Navin Jain said.
 
 The PCPNDT cell came to know that a government doctor in Gujarat was allegedly involved in sex selection activities. They conducted a decoy operation and arrested the accused doctor along with his two agents.
 
 The doctor is identified as Sailesh Gajar, who is an obstetrician and gynaecologist.
 
 “One more ugly face of sex determination was exposed by our team while following an inter-state gang involved in sex selection. The doctor posted at government hospital in Radanpur, Patan in Gujarat was caught red-handed. It was the fifth such operation in Gujarat after four such successful decoy operations in private hospitals,” Jain said.
 
 He said that three people including his two agents were arrested. “Some people who claim to be “protectors of daughters” tried to save the culprits but the PCPNDT team bravely performed the job,” Jain wrote on a social networking site. 
 
 While on the way back to Jaipur, the PCPNDT team, which was carrying the sonography machine was stopped by Gujarat police on Rajasthan-Gujarat border. When PCPNDT officials told police that they had conducted a decoy operation and the sonography machine was allegedly used in it, Gujarat police allowed the vehicle to cross the border.
 
 “PCPNDT is a Central Act and daughters need to be protected in all places. All authorities have similar powers under the Act,” Jain said.
 
 The PCPNDT court in Barmer rejected the accused’s petition for bail. It sent the accused to  .
 
 The pregnant woman, who acted as a decoy, belonged to Barmer. The PCPNDT cell officials said that they had received information that agents of a doctor were active in the border areas of Gujarat and Rajasthan. They took the pregnant women from Rajasthan to Gujarat for alleged sex selection.
 
 Officials said that they seized Rs 30,000 from the possession of the doctor and his two agents, which the pregnant woman (decoy) had given to them. 
 
