GAYA: Central University of South Bihar ( ) registrar Gayathri Vishwanath Patil on Friday refuted the allegation of former assembly Speaker Udai Narain Chaudhary that reservation rules were blatantly violated in the March 2 advertisement for appointment on 20 non-teaching posts in the university. 

 The CUSB has advertised 20 non-teaching positions, including the post of controller of exams, medical officer, assistant engineer, personal assistant and technical assistant, but made only one post reserved for SC and two posts are OBC candidates. Chaudhary said as per the reservation rules, no less than nine posts should have been reserved.
 
 Chief minister Nitish Kumar also said at a function on Thursday in Patna that the central government was denying due reservation to the disadvantaged groups, including the Dalits and backwards. However, he did not mention CUSB. 
 
 As per the official CUSB website, the vacancies have been advertised vide notification no. CUSB/Advt/30/2017 dated March 2, 2017 and applications have been invited at the CUSB Patna address (BIT campus) till March 22.
 
 All the five posts of group A in the Rs37,400-Rs 67,000 payscale, including controller of exams, librarian and medical officers, have been put in the general category. Of the six posts of group B in the Rs9,300- Rs34,800 scale, only one post has been reserved for OBC while the remaining five fall in the unreserved category.
 
 Of the nine group C posts in the Rs5,200- Rs20,200 scale, SCs and OBCs have got one each while the remaining seven positions are in the non-teaching category.
 
 The lone B category post reserved for OBC candidates is that of personal assistant. The C category post reserved for OBC candidates is that of technical assistant. The only post reserved for SC candidates is that of lab assistant. The posts have been advertised under the seal of registrar, CUSB. 
 
 Asked how was it possible that of the five A category posts in the high payscale, no post has gone to the reserved category candidates, the CUSB registrar said, “Reservation roster has been fully maintained and the sceptics are free to seek details under RTI.”
 
 
