PUNE: A special court in the city has sentenced a youth to three-year   (RI) for sexually assaulting a 14-year-old girl near   in November 2014.

 Special judge Dilip G Murumkar sentenced accused Nagesh A Vidhate (20) to three years in jail for each of the offences punishable under sections 363 (kidnapping), 354B (use of criminal force with intent to disrobe a woman) of the Indian Penal Code and sections 7/8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act which deal with sexual assault. The sentences are to run concurrently.
 
 Additional public prosecutor PS Agarwal submitted that the survivor was returning home from a public toilet around 5am on November 7, 2014 when the accused met her and told that her brother had called her to a place of worship near the bridge. On reaching there, the accused started tearing off her clothes.
 
 The girl raised an alarm, drawing attention of her cousin who was at the place of worship for offering prayers. He rushed to her rescue and took the girl to her house where she narrated the incident to her grandmother and aunt. The Khadki police later arrested Vidhate.
 
 Vidhate’s defence was of total denial as he claimed there was a 10-hour delay in the lodging of FIR in presence of the girl’s family members and the prosecution did not examine her cousin, grandmother and aunt. No pancha witness was examined on seizure of the girl’s torn clothes by police, he argued.
 
 Judge Murumkar held that the delay was reasonable considering the girl’s age and the situation she went through. Mere presence of family members during lodging of the FIR did not indicate tutoring as there was no evidence to prove the point. The court held there was no evidence to show that the woman police officer, who seized the girl’s torn clothes, had any personal animosity with the accused. As such, the officer’s evidence can be treated as one by an independent witness.
 
 On the non-examination of cousin, grandmother and aunt, the judge observed that the court has to go by the quality of evidence and not the quantity of witnesses. The survivor’s evidence inspired confidence and stood corroborated by police probe, the court held. 
 
