BHOPAL: The   assembly was adjourned thrice on Monday amid pandemonium over controversies regarding Congress MP   and MP legislative affairs minister Narottam Mishra, who is still in the cabinet despite being disqualified by  .

 While Congress tried to corner the government on Mishra, the BJP benches raised a furore over Scindia’s alleged remarks on Dalits.
 
 Congress MLA from Gurh seat, Sundarlal Tiwari, demanded to know how Mishra could still figure as a ‘minister’ in the assembly’s question-answer booklet of the day. There were several questions to be asked by MLAs on water resources on Monday, and Mishra’s name appeared in the reply as the minister answering the questions.
 
 “How can a person, who is no longer a minister, have his name in the answer booklet?” Tiwari asked, pointing out that Mishra “no longer figures on the Election Commission’s voter list”.
 
 Speaker Sitasharan Sharma asked Tiwari to refer to Article 164 (4), which provides for a non-MLA to be minister for six months. But as Congress started firing a barrage of questions, the BJP benches launched an aggressive counterattack, accusing Scindia of humiliating Dalits.
 
 Ministers Gauri Shankar Shejwar, Lal Singh Arya and Vishwas Sarang alleged that Congress was insulting Dalits by getting a trauma centre in Ashokenagar “washed with Ganga Jal because BJP’s Dalit MLA Gopilal Jatav had inaugurated it”.
 
 Congress objected to it, saying that BJP was levelling false accusations to divert the issue from Mishra. Leader of Opposition Ajay Singh asked, “When Narottam Mishra’s issue came up, why did the chief minister go away?”
 
 This triggered an all-out shouting battle where Congress and BJP hurled accusations at each other. The Speaker appealed to both sides to calm down and let the Question Hour proceed. It took half an hour for both sides to settle down. Speaker Sharma said the issues could be raised during Zero Hour.
 
 And so it was. MoS cooperatives Vishwas Sarang said, “Scindia and his supporters must apologise for insulting a Scheduled Caste leader or else the members will move a privilege notice against him.”
 
 Congress again created ruckus over including Mishra’s name the questionnaire. As the bedlam renewed, the Speaker adjourned proceedings for 10 minutes.
 
 When the House reassembled, BJP MLA Rameshwar Sharma said he would go on a fast if Scindia weren’t “summoned to the assembly to tender an unconditional apology”. This triggered sharp reactions from the Congress benches. BJP members, including ministers Gaurishankar Bisen and Lal Singh Arya, added to the ruckus by saying that the House would pass a censure motion against Scindia.
 
 The Speaker adjourned the House for 15 minutes. After the adjournment, the Speaker informed the House that the issue related to Mishra is sub judice and cannot be raised in the House. The members who have raised the matter must be aware of this, he cautioned.
 
 Leader of Opposition Ajay Singh quickly pointed out BJP’s attitude towards Dalits is reflected in how Mayawati “was not allowed to speak in Rajya Sabha”, leading to her resignation. “This is shameful,” he said. “When BJP can gag Dalit leaders in Rajya Sabha, they have no right to ask about Dalits,” he said. BJP members again hit back by seeking to move a privilege motion against Scindia.
 
 Amid the noisy scenes, some members demanded the Speaker’s intervention to restore order in the House. But as the proceeding continued, it was adjourned for a third time.
 
