NASHIK: Eight men from Nagpur,   have been arrested by the city police for allegedly accepting bets on the ongoing   (IPL) matches.

 The police also recovered 79 cellphones, an LED television set, voice recorders, a set-top box and other articles worth Rs 4.22 lakh.
 
 The eight suspects have been identified as Lokesh alias Lucky Manoharlal Khatri (33), Sharad Nakote (46), Mohammad Shahbaj Mohammad Izaz Shaikh (27), Rajesh Kale (45), Amit Trivedi (33), all residents of Nagpur along with Sajid Vahed Bakht (30), a resident of Gondia and   (40) and  , both residents of Bihar. 
 
 An official said that the eight suspects reached Nashik a few days back and rented a bungalow in the Wadala area. They were accepting bets for the ongoing IPL matches from this bungalow. 
 
 The incident came to light after police constable of Unit I of the crime branch, Swapnil Jundre received a tip-off about some people from Nagpur renting a bungalow in Vidhate Nagar of Wadala and accepting bets.
 
 “On getting a tip-off about the bungalow, we raided the place on Wednesday evening and confiscated three laptops, a 24-inch LED TV, a set-top box, pen drives, recorders, extension boards and writing pads. The total worth of all the articles we have confiscated is to the tune of Rs 4.22 lakh,” said Jundre. 
 
 Investigations are still on. Inspector Narayan Nyahalde of the crime branch said, “Prima facie shows that the suspects had come from Nagpur about a week back to take bets for the IPL matches. Although most of the bets were taken from people in Nagpur, they may have thought of receiving it by sitting in Nashik than operating from their own city.”
 
 The police are also trying to find out the owner of the bungalow to find out whether he had gotten an agreement from the suspects and if the concerned landlord was aware about their illegal activity.
 
 The eight suspects have been booked under different sections of the IPC and Bombay Gambling Act. 
 
 On April 30, three men were booked under the Bombay Gambling Act for allegedly accepting bets for the ongoing IPL matches in the Sardar   of Panchavati. The police raided a room in Sai Leela Lodge and arrested the three along with confiscating articles worth Rs 87,000.
 
