NEW DELHI: The   seems to have done little to realise dues, ranging from Rs 3 lakh to Rs 1.4 crore in licence fee, from   in R K Puram in South Delhi, according to its audit books. 

 The information was revealed following a plea by   applicant Rajeev Agnihotri filed with NDMC asking for a list of all the allottees. After being denied the information, the applicant approached the Central Information Commission ( ), which has now directed NDMC to put up all information on the allottees and dues owed to the civic body on its website. It has also directed NDMC to put up the steps taken to realise the dues owed to the civic agency and whether the allotments have been cancelled, within 45 days of the receipt of the order. 
 
 In a scathing indictment of the civic agency, information commissioner Yashovardhan Azad said, “Analysis of the dossier on outstanding bills issued to allottees of Palika Bhavan presents a rather sordid and contaminated state of affairs at NDMC... A whopping amount aggregating in crores of rupees is pending realisation.” 
 
 Noting that the “situation is alarming”, Azad said, “It has a direct impact on the financial health of NDMC which is the civic body entrusted with maintenance of civic affairs of the national capital. The reasons which keep NDMC from initiating concrete steps towards realisation of outstanding dues are thus, cannot be kept under wraps as it affects the maintenance of civic amenities and livelihood of NDMC employees.” 
 
 Agnihotri, who is also an allottee at the Palika Bhavan, told the CIC that he had filed the RTI plea after he found that while he had been paying the licence fee of almost of Rs 50,000 per month to NDMC since allotment, several others had in fact not paid their dues for decades. Azad said in his order, “An honest citizen who pays his dues with sincerity cannot be ignored by a civil body by sparing coercive action and extending tacit support to the defaulters. Resistance to recover outstanding dues and efforts to keep information as guarded tends to legitimise conduct of defaulters besides causing heartburn to the upright tax payers.”
 
