SALEM/ERODE/NILGIRIS: The reactions of   men to the   (SC) verdict in disproportionate assets case on Tuesday was in stark contrast to the reactions when the original judgment was given special judge of trial court Michael D’Cunha in 2014.

 Cadres who blocked roads then had now jumped on to the same roads setting off crackers to celebrate the verdict. It was evident that cadres chose to overlook the fact that the judgment had upheld the guilt of their icon J Jayalalithaa and rather revel because V K   would be going to jail.
 
 The disenchantment with Sasikala among AIADMK cadres was palpable across Coimbatore, Salem, Erode, Nilgiris and adjoining districts as party men even distributed sweets. In fact, AIADMK men appeared to be rejoicing the verdict more than members of their rival DMK, whose general secretary M Anbazhagan was instrumental in moving the case from Madras High court to Bengaluru.
 
 The celebrations were only muted because some of the functionaries asked cadres not celebrate as their ‘Amma’ was also among the guilty.
 
 More than 200 AIADMK cadres, who assembled before the Anna statue near Old Bus stand in Salem city burst crackers. Former MLAs M K Selvaraj, S E Venkatachalam, former Deputy Mayor of Salem Municipal Corporation M Natesan distributed sweets to people those who came there.
 
 M K Selvaraj said that all AIADMK cadres whole-heartedly welcomed the SC’s verdict. “The apex court Justices have showed the right place for Mannargudi Mafia,’’ he said. 
 
 Another former MLA of AIADMK S E Venkatachalam said that the SC verdict has put an end to V K Sasikala’s dictatorial approach in the party.
 
 In Ooty, Coonoor, Kotagiri and Gudalur in the Nilgiris, AIADMK party men distributed sweets to the public ahead of the case judgment. In Coonoor, DMK Nilgiris district secretary, Mubarak garlanded the statue of Anna, located near the Coonoor bus stand.
 
 Pro-OPS cadres in Erode city started bursting crackers right from the moment the judgment was passed. Supporters of former AIADMK Minister K P Munusamy burst crackers in Krishnagiri district on Tuesday morning.
 
 AIADMK men hoped that with Sasikala going to jail, all the MLAs in her camp will extend their support to O Panneerselvam. “We expected a new general secretary, who will be elected through party election legally,” said M Natesan, deputy Mayor of Salem Municipal Corporation. He also said that all the MLAs should support   unanimously to give good governance, which was shown by party’s former high command J Jayalalithaa.
 
 
