AHMEDABAD: One week after the Bombay high court upheld the   in the 2002  , Bilkis and her husband Yaqub Rasool said, here on Thursday, that due to the lack of security, they been unable to reveal their addresses and have remained almost in hiding for 15 years, since the riots.

  Speaking during an interaction with mediapersons, Bilkis said, “We have faced so many difficulties in these 15 years to get justice. There were constant threats and we kept changing our place of residence. Due to the lack of security, we had problems raising our children. There has been no support from the Gujarat government and officials.”
 
 Yaqub elaborated on why they do not divulge their address, “As there is no guarantee of security, we do not disclose our address. There is constant uncertainty about what will happen to us. We have been constantly shifting our residence. We want to go back to our village, but looking at the loss suffered by the family, we think twice. Moreover, we are not certain about the kin of the accused persons who are behind bars.” He, however, said that the family continues to live in Gujarat, but declined to reveal their present residence.
 
 Yaqub further said that due to their constant moving, the education of his five kids was badly affected. “We changed addresses nearly 15 times in the last 15 years. My eldest daughter is in class X. We want her to be well educated and become a lawyer, so that she could secure justice for others,” he added.
 
 Bilkis, her husband and social activist Gagan Sethi — who provided legal support to the family — raised the issue of compensation for the rape victim. Sethi said that while Bilkis’s family are not beggars, it is up to the state government to realize its duty and pay reparations. Yaqub said that the family would wait for the compensation, but if they do not get, they will approach the government.
 
 On comparisons of the punishment meted out in her case and the Nirbhaya gang rape case, Bilkis brushed aside any discussion on demands for capital punishment for the accused and reiterated, “I wanted justice and not revenge. I am happy and satisfied with the high court’s verdict, especially because police officers and government officials have been punished for their wrongdoing.”
 
