KOLKATA: Welcome to  , the   way.

 In its newest ‘discipline’ diktat,   wants party members to use online platforms only to spread its organisational principle of democratic centralism and use it to advance the party’s cause or elaborate on a political stand already adopted.
 
 Espousing critical views and questioning the party line or individual leaders are prohibited. CPM members have also been debarred from “liking” an article or sharing it if it goes against the official party line.
 
 The immediate reason behind the diktat could the recent controversy over CPM Rajya Sabha MP Ritabrata Banerjee’s mail to the employer of a party member who had criticised Banerjee’s lifestyle in social media. Though party mandarins censured the MP publicly, it wasted little time since mid-February to come out with a guideline on social media participation, conceived by the CPM politburo.
 
 The instruction has come in the form of a confidential letter — Party Chithi (2) — a communication used to send out party’s decision to the ranks.
 
 The guideline asks CPM members to follow the organisational principle and express critical views, if any, in the party unit s/he belongs to. The target is some of the “closed groups” formed by party members in social media such as ‘Bam Bangalir Adda’ that broke barriers and included members — from unit level to central committee level — under one platform. On this platform, members asked questions and expressed their opinion to state secretariat members like Amiya Patra or   and could get their views too.
 
 Bitten by the   bug, CPM mandarins realised that the social media thing was going too far, that some peer groups were playing the role of influencers.
 
 “Party members are free to express their opinion at the relevant party forum. They can write directly to the CC. We are also coming open on several issues. Some of our important decisions are posted on the party’s website, seeking public opinion. But there has to be some sort of a discipline in running an organisation. You can’t cite any political party that allows this. We have nothing against our sympathisers. They are free to express their views online. The guideline is for party members only,” a CPM state secretariat member said.
 
 Alimuddin Street may well be within its limits to do so, but a cursory look at developments across the world —Egypt, Tunisia, Bangladesh and even US — reveal how social media has enabled peer-to-peer networks to assume prominent roles. “How long can you stop individuals from building networks when the world has become flat? For instance, there is no harm if I put a like on historian Irfan Habib’s article saying that the Bharat Mata concept was an import of the British, but I cannot do so when the historian urges upon all anti-BJP parties, including Left and  , to come together because the party doesn’t approve it,” another state committee member said.
 
 
