PANAJI: It’s a question of time. And none of the key players in the organizing of the 36th   to be hosted by Goa have an answer.
 
  The Games were scheduled to be held in November. But a cloud of uncertainty hangs over the event after Chief Minister Manohar Parrikar revealed during the budget session at the legislative assembly in March that the Games would be put back to next year.
  
  The Goa Olympic Association (GOA), Sports Authority of Goa ( ) and the Indian Olympic Association ( ) now don’t seem to have the foggiest notion when the oft-postponed Games will be held after the CM’s statement.
  
  The IOA, responsible for organizing and development of sports in the country are in the dark over the re-scheduling of the 30-discipline event involving about 8,000 athletes and 2,000 officials. Said Rajiv Mehta, IOA secretary general: “We have not received any email or letter on our query about the dates of the National Games and we are still waiting.
  
  “I have been in touch with the secretary of GOA and the CM’s office but there is no response whatsoever on the subject.”
  
  Gurudutta Bhakta, honorary secretary, GOA, an affiliated unit of the IOA, is waiting as well for intimation from the state government.
  
  “The decision to postpone the National Games was a suo moto decision taken by the Government which I cannot convey to the IOA without an official communique,” said Bhakta.
  
  “The situation is not very encouraging,” Bhakta lamented. “If the Games are not held in November, Goa’s ability to play hosts will be shown in very poor light when the IOA holds its Annual General Meeting in December.”
  
  However, VM  , executive director of SAG, a wing of the Goa government for the development of sport, believes that the IOA will take a sympathetic view of a postponement if any, given the moral code of conduct prior to the state assembly elections that crucially put a freeze activity for about four months.
  
  “One has to be cautious before making an announcement of the new dates given the financial, technical and administrative implications,” he said.
  
  “Let the Government take a decision on dates and intimate the IOA through GOA,” Prabhudesai asserted.
  
  Prabhudesai and Bhakta attended a crucial IOA AGM in Chennai in December, convincing the apex body of Goa’s commitment to the Games which were then confirmed to be held in November this year – exactly a year’s delay after the state was allotted the 36th edition first scheduled to be held in 2011.
  
  The Games were plagued by delays as Kerala first, then Jharkhand failed to host the event on time and huge delays meant Goa had to wait for its turn.
  
  And now, with the clock ticking rapidly, the event looks to be caught in a time warp yet again.
  
