Panaji/Colva: Despite the transport department’s strict rules against the use of tinted glasses and fancy number plates on vehicles, violations appear to be rampant in the state.

 Over the last three months, 979 vehicles were caught using tinted window glasses, while 392 vehicles had fancy number plates.
 
 Advocate Jos Peter D’Souza calls it “a plain act of ‘dadagiri’ which the authorities have to curb with an iron hand, while Sushant Bandekar, a pharmaceutical professional, says he travels from Marcela, Ponda, to Mapusa every day and often observes bikes without number plates.
 
 The directorate of transport had decided to apply Section 192 (1) of the Indian Motor Vehicles Act to deal with the two offences in 2014. Since then, these violations, which were earlier clubbed in the list of ‘general offences’ and attracted a fine of Rs 100, now amount to violation of the registration conditions of the vehicle and attract a fine of up to Rs 2,000.
 
 An RTO official from Panaji, however, said that violators using fancy number plates are still fined Rs 100. Only repeat offenders are compounded with a heavy fine of Rs 2,000. 
 
 “As a standard measure, we only impose fines, but the licence can also be suspended if the vehicle owner is a habitual offender,” he said.
 
 Road safety activist Viraj Sapre, who actively uses the transport department’s complaint registration app to bring road violations to the attention of authorities, said he has reported several cases of violation through this platform. “On three occasions, the transport department responded saying the registration number I provided to them did not exist. This makes the issue all the more serious since there could be a possibility of fake licence plates,” he said.
 
 DySP Prabodh Shirwaikar was quick to point out they do issue fines to car owners who do not conform with specification of the registration size and shape.
 
 When asked why police do not remove the black tint on cars after issuing fines when they are empowered to do so, Colva   cell PSI Dayanand Bhat said, “The owners make allegations and lodge complaints that during the removal process, we scratched their glass or paint. So, we issue fines and leave it at that”.
 
 Another problem today is the LED lights which people fix on their vehicles which affects the vision of oncoming vehicle riders and drivers. “It makes driving difficult at night,” says Deepak Naik, a resident of Colva.
 
 Margao traffic cell police inspector Mohan Gawde, displayed a LED light that he confiscated recently from a bike. When pointed out that there are many vehicles with these lights, he said that police will be cracking down on this from now onwards.
 
 Citizens say that while law enforcement authorities tend to concentrate on enforcing wearing of helmets and seat belts, they ignore vehicles not conforming to other regulations. Shirwaikar has urged citizens to take pictures of such vehicles and either sent it to him or post it on the official facebook page and promised that action will be initiated.
 
 
