KOLKATA: The police on Friday found two witnesses in the high-speed car crash on   12 days ago following which model   Singh Chauhan died. While one of them was witness to the entire accident, the other saw the car drive by at great speed near   and then heard the crash. The two are reportedly crucial to the probe as they corroborate that actor Vikram Chatterjee, who was at the wheel, was speeding.

 The police have already retrieved data from the car's “black box“ that it was travelling at 90-105kmph at the time of the accident, when the speed limit prescribed for Rashbehari Avenue is 40kmph. Images from   cameras installed at various crossings the car passed by that night also indicated it was being driven at a high speed.
 
 The witnesses were a KMC sweeper and an employee of a make-shift restaurant near the spot, the police said. The sweeper claimed he saw the car streak down the road, spin out of the control and meet with the accident. The restaurant worker, Shankar, saw it drive past at a tremendous speed. But minutes later, he heard a loud bang and he rushed in that direction, the police added. In fact, Shankar was reportedly one of the first to reach the spot and go look for policemen. He found two constables at an HDFC ATM nearby and alerted them about the crash.
 
 Besides the two strangers, the four women, who knew Vikram and Sonika and partied at the same pubs as the two on the fateful night of April 28, were also key to the investigation. The po lice on Friday completed recording the four's confidential statements before an Alipore court magistrate; sources said their statements indicated Vikram had consumed alcohol that night.
 
 The findings of Vikram's blood samples collected at   is currently being examined. Once alco hol and the content were detected in the sample, it would further bolster the drunk driving case, the police said.But senior cops refuted claims that a liquor bottle was found in the white sedan Vikram was driving.
 
 The police on Friday visited Sonika's home at Hastings and recorded her parents' statements. “They recounted how they learnt about the accident, Sonika's daily routine and the last time they spoke to her,“ said a source.
 
 The cops spent a considerable time to ascertain if the car had a mechanical fault. Experts from  , the maker of the sedan, have not found any such indication yet.The Toyota team reiterated the accident was not caused due to mechanical failure and the airbags did not deploy as the car was not damaged to the extent to trigger the airbag sensors. “We are aware the defence may point to the airbags not deploying. We got the car checked by forensic experts thrice and sent the airbags for test,“ said a source.
 
 Vikram could be called for questioning again once the forensic reports arrived and legal experts claimed cops were still looking to book the actor with harsher charges once the police were ready to file a charge sheet. “We believe the knowledge that drunk driving can lead to accidents is enough to attract higher penalty . You will not need to prove the intent,“ claimed a lawyer.
 
