Salem: The professors and lecturers attached to various arts and science colleges across Salem region, comprising Namakkal, Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri districts, alleged that they hadn’t yet been paid for paper evaluation done in November last and the Periyar University management was delaying it, citing cash crunch due to demonetisation drive.

 Periyar University conducted semester examinations for under graduate (UG) and post graduate (PG) students studying in the university’s affiliated arts and science colleges and its constituent colleges across the region between November 1 and November 30, 2016. The paper evaluation work began on November 26 in four centres and concluded on December 20.
 
 It is learnt that the university pays professors and lecturers Rs 12 per UG paper and Rs 15 per PG paper for evaluation. “Usually, the University hands over the money to the concerned professor or lecturer on the day the paper evaluation process concludes,” said an assistant lecturer, working in a private arts and science college in Salem district. 
 
 Talking to TOI, he further said that the University did not hand over the amount citing demonetisation issue.
 
 The lecturers and professors claimed that the university did not take any steps to pay them via bank accounts, even after 15 days. They added that they had furnished their bank account details to Controller of Examinations (CoE) office officials. At the time of receiving the details, the CoE office officials assured the lecturers and professors that they will deposit the amount on or before December 31. “Even after December 31, we did not receive the amount,” the professors lamented. 
 
 When contacted by TOI, controller of examinations of the university, S Leela, said that the university will deposit the amount in the respective professor and lecturers bank accounts within a week. “We are yet to receive the bank details of a few professors and lecturers. We will deposit the money once we collect all the details,” she assured.
 
 
