NAGPUR: The   went off peacefully with the police department ensuring strict vigilance across the city. The security blanket mostly remained impregnable during polling on Tuesday.

 Stray incidents such as thrashing of a former   candidate at Verma Layout, ruckus at Ganeshpeth police station over sexual harassments, some skirmishes like the one in Mini Mata Nagar and scuffling with cops at Naik talao among others kept police on toes who ensured peace after initial tensions.
 
 The city police also drew flak from a section of political parties and activists who claimed that there were no checks on mobile phones and personal belongings being taken inside the booth, thereby violating the State Election Commission’s order. TOI has also received images of EVMs being clicked by voters with their mobile phones.
 
 Retaliating the charges, the city police’s top brass has contented that the   had made no arrangement of lockers or other facilities for voters to keep their mobile phones and personal belongings. “Maximum voters would have gone away without polling had the police strictly followed norms, further decreasing the voting percentage. Individual cops cannot take responsibility of personal belongings as someone can blame us for damaging or theft,” said a senior police officer.
 
 “The NMC should have cleared the position with police or made alternate arrangements as the civic body itself is conducting the polls,” the officer added.
 
 City police commissioner K Venkatesh, who was on the streets after casting vote, visited the control room and lauded the efforts of constables Pravin Jaojal and Mahesh Patil for co-ordinating with the forces as well as various squads in managing their deployment at various places.
 
 “Police had earmarked around 162 critical booths in 54 buildings where additional manpower and   (SRPF) were deployed,” he said.
 
 “The entire bandobast was handled by personnel of the ranks of head constables and sub-inspectors as senior officials were required to intervene on minimum occasions,” he added.
 
 The police chief also claimed that there was no official complaints of impersonation, bogus voting and any other illegal activity.
 
 
