It’s been 16 years since Mira Nair’s masti-filled, rain-drenched story of a Punjabi wedding became the toast of Venice. The director, who has notched up many awards with her diverse storytelling, is now taking that entertaining mix of Black Label scotch, shaadis and skeletons to the Broadway stage with an ensemble cast and music composed by Vishal  . In an interview to Sunday Times, Nair talks about the musical which marks her return to theatre after 40 years

 
 
 
 
 It’s taken us 10 years to develop this musical for various reasons but mostly because I chose to return to India to find my creative team rather than go to Broadway. Vishal Bhardwaj (music), Sabrina Dhawan (writer) and the others had to juggle busy schedules. But now we’re ready for our first performance next week.
 
 The story and its main issues are the same. It’s very much a tale of the Verma family. The film had five sub-plots which we’ve cut to four — the old-shoe love between the mum and dad of the bride, the arranged marriage with a question mark between Hemant and Aditi, the pure love of Alice and P K Dubey, and the twisted, sick love of the uncle and the niece. We’ve also updated it. Monsoon Wedding was made in 2001 and was really the first portrait of a globalising India. Today, there is more confidence and wealth in India, but the disparity between rich and poor has only increased. And also because the groom is from New Jersey, it’s a chance to reflect today’s America. The play is as much about the madness of Delhi life as much as it is the madness of the Trump era.
 
 
 No whitewashing there (laughs). There’s an English translation as well.
 
 
 I do think the world needs this live-for-today philosophy more than ever. It’s a lesson in how to live fully and with masti regardless of the tragedies of life. And that’s an important thing when the world is building walls and borders. One of the reasons the movie was successful was that you could recognise yourself no matter where you came from. People from all over the world related to it — they either wanted to be like the Verma family or recognised their own family in the Vermas. And we’re seeing a similar response for the musical with even the previews getting standing ovations.
 
 
 
 Nothing becomes easier, but now I know what to expect and how to deal with it. I still got to have the heart of a poet and the skin of an elephant. You’ve got to take the dhakkas, and not be crushed by them. In that sense, it has not changed. But I no longer feel as desperately lonely as I did then. Whether it was Salaam, Mississippi Masala or Namesake, it always felt like one was opening a door for the first time. Now, it’s the same thing in theatre. We rehearsed in   for weeks before coming to Berkeley. And when we stepped out of the subway, I almost felt like saying, ‘All brown people follow me’. It’s still rare to see people of hue on stage, and there we were — the whole team of Monsoon from the subcontinent. But there are definitely more people who look like us, telling our stories and making it understood that we are not the other — look at Riz Ahmed, Aziz Ansari,  . I feel a growing sense of community for sure. I believe that Americans are essentially open-minded people, and so many are desperate in anxiety of what is happening to their world. A great gust of wind like the Monsoon Wedding makes them feel ‘ki haan bhai koi hai’ — that there are people who can counter the insularity and poison of what is being said. It’s a timely moment to open Monsoon Wedding.
 
 
 It was received so ecstatically by critics, audiences and the African continent that I did expect more. I was disappointed with its distribution but with  , etc, people are discovering it again. But the film is exactly what I wanted to say and how I wanted to say it.
 
