NEW DELHI: Sadak, bijli, pani have been the ABC of almost every electoral manifesto in India. In Delhi, with the latter two the responsibility of the state government, it will be roads that will be seen as a factor in the coming municipal elections. The capital does have among the best urban roads in the country, but there are stretches maintained by the municipal corporations that have tested the patience of voters in the past five years. People in the Krishna Nagar ward in east Delhi, for instance, will surely resent that one’s final journey along the decrepit Shamshan Ghat   is a very unpleasant one.

 The roads in focus at election time will be those 60 feet wide or less maintained by the corporations (PWD looks after roads wider than this). The  , the wealthiest of the three civic bodies, has only lately slipped in maintaining such passages, but many in east and north Delhi are in a shambles. Mangalam Road in Patparganj in east Delhi, for one, is a nightmare with its potholes, some as dangerous as a foot deep. “A friend broke his hand last week when his bike skidded after hitting a  ,” said Vinod Jha, one of the hundreds who live along the road.
 
 In East Patel Nagar, Ankit Gaurav looked at the stretch in front of him and wondered, “The potholes on this road turned into veritable ponds during the recent rains. Are we living in the national capital?” In Vinod Nagar, residents on the crowded Buddha Marg and Shanti Marg in Vinod Nagar aren’t exaggerating when they worry about slipped discs traversing these roads.
 
 “Many councillors do not bother about the roads unless elections are scheduled,” admitted Abhishek Dutta, Congress councillor from Andrews Ganj. The three corporations are accountable for the upkeep of around 28,000km of internal roads and claim to spend crores of rupees on them every year. 
 
 Chetan Sharma, chairman of GK2 Complex RWAs, is planning to keep tabs on the money spent through  . “Cosmetic repair work was carried out before the elections,” Sharma told TOI. “But we know the repairs will not hold up for even a single month after the polls.”
 
 Ritesh Dewan, a representative of the  , said corporation engineers plead proper maintenance required the work to be tendered out but contractors are not interested. A few contractors that TOI talked to seemed to confirm their reluctance. Why should we, when payments for road projects carried out four years ago are yet to be paid, said one. An EDMC official admitted, “We owe contractors over Rs 150 crore for road work.”
 
 SDMC spent over Rs 432 crore on road repairs in the five years since 2012. In the north body, Vijay Prakash, chief engineer, said that despite the funds crunch, a lot was done. It is only in EDMC that the amount spent on roads slid consistently from over Rs 65 crore in 2012 to just Rs 10 crore in 2016. 
 
 Even if money was spent on roads, their dismal condition not only underlines the poor quality of bitumen and construction materials used, but also raises questions. The life of a road is assumed to be five years, so when they don’t last so long, it allows people like Waryam Kaur, leader of the Opposition in EDMC, to declare, “The major portion of the funds earmarked for road repair and maintenance go into the pocket of the corrupt.”
 
 When the campaign vehicles lurch along pockmarked roads in the colonies, the ride will not be the only uncomfortable experience for the candidates. Voters’ grilling on roads will also leave them squirming.
 
 
