PATNA: The Bihar chapter of IAS Officers’ Association on Thursday withdrew the memorandum it had submitted to the state government over the arrest of former Bihar Staff Selection Committee (BSSC) chairman   on February 24.

 Association’s vice-president and senior IAS official Tripurari Sharan told TOI that a fresh memorandum would be submitted to the government after making certain amendments.
 
 “The association is of the view that the memorandum submitted earlier to the governor and Speaker of the assembly was not drafted properly. Hence, we are going to make a few amendments and a fresh memorandum would be submitted to the state government shortly,” said Sharan, who is also chairman-cum-member of the state revenue board.
 
 Two days after Sudhir’s arrest for his alleged involvement in the question paper leak for appointment of 13,120 clerks in different departments, the association had submitted a memorandum to governor   on February 26 demanding a CBI probe into the case besides raising several other objections. The association also submitted a memorandum to assembly Speaker   on February 27.
 
 Incidentally, Bihar government and the association were in a face-off over Sudhir’s arrest, claiming it to be unwarranted and against the parameters set by the Supreme Court in this regard.
 
 However, the IAS association apparently “eased” the stir after chief minister   took a tough stand on the issue. Nitish said in the state assembly on February 28 that the government would take a “landmark action” on the bureaucrats’ stir.
 
 Later, the general administration department on March 16 served show-cause notices to around 18 district magistrates to explain by whose permission they had left their respective district headquarters and participated in the association’s meeting on February 26. The association was also served notice to explain their opposition to the action taken by the police in Sudhir’s case.
 
 Retired IAS official and former chief secretary of undivided Bihar V S Dubey said a few points in the memorandum were “controversial”. 
 
 “The association had stated that it would not accept verbal order from senior authorities, including the chief minister office. However, All India Services (Conduct) Rules, 1968 very clearly states that all orders by the superiors must be in writing and if oral orders are issued in case of emergency, they must be reduced in writing as soon as possible. Thus, in a way, they admitted accepting verbal orders. Besides, the resolution, that the association would not accept posting as the BSSC chairman or controller of exams in Bihar Combined Entrance Competitive Examination Board and chairman in  , is also slightly exaggerated,” said Dubey.
 
 
