MUMBAI:   wants someone to invite her to an  . The kind that has over 1,200 guests and goes on for four days. But that dream will have to wait a few years as this three-time Grammy nominated blues singer from New York leaves town tonight, right after she steps off the stage at  . And given how much she is pining for the six-week-old son smiling from the wallpaper of her iPhone, the 37-year-old can hardly be persuaded to stay. “He hasn't even had his shots yet,“ says Copeland, now in a Bandra five-star. Just earlier in the day, she sang him his favourite bedtime song via Facetime. Her is the kind of powerhouse, roaring `part-Memphis,  ' voice that, besides a bevy of blues awards, has earned Copeland the title of ' '.

 Whether she's belting out a raucous blues-rocker or digging deep down into a subtle, country-tinged ballad, Copeland sounds like no one else. For this daughter of legendary bluesman Johnny Clyde Copeland, music was everywhere. “It was a nice way to grow up,“ says Shemekia, who began touring with her father at age 16 after he was diagnosed with a degenerative heart condi tion. That's when she got to know her father as a man. “I realised he wasn't perfect and that we all make mistakes and that's okay,“ says Copeland, who recorded her debut CD, 'Turn The Heat Up', as an 18-year-old and has since not only performed the world over with greats such as Eric Clapton, but has also entertained US troops in Iraq and Kuwait. All through, she consciously avoided reading reviews. “My father would always say `never read the press'. If it is good, it will make you cocky, arrogant and entitled. If it's bad, it will make you bitter and angry.“ Copeland-who has met both kinds of singers-would rather feel “humble and blessed“.
 
 For Copeland, who performed at the debut edition of the festival in 2011, Mumbai feels different this time. “It's as if the whole city is waiting for you to perform,“ she says.
 
 Copeland will most likely turn up in her favourite colour--black--while vowing audiences with numbers from her acclaimed album `Outskirts of Love'. She is happy to note the equal gender ratio at this festival. “There needs to be more of a presence for us,“ says Copeland, who usually finds just one woman singer at blues festivals.
 
 As someone who likes to sing about social issues, she nurtures a fond memory of performing at the White House for former US president Barack Obama in 2012. “I was happy to play during that administration,“ she says. “Now I sometimes wonder what kind of world I have brought my kid into.“
 
