PANAJI: When King Momo’s entourage and revelers descend on the city’s riverfront on Saturday, tree lovers may have nothing to be merry about, as they sadly anticipate the rows of ornamental plants, en route, may be trampled in the melee.

  (GSIDC) has planted hundreds of decorative plants at a cost of lakh of rupees. This is part of the city’s upgradation and beautification along the 1km stretch from   to  , sources said.
 
 A major part of the carnival parade route from Patto bridge to Campal has rows of ornamental shrubbery planted recently on either side. “What is the use of spending so much money on these plants when carnival revelers will stamp them during the floats parade?” Dadu Mandrekar, a tree lover, asked.
 
 The laying of lawns is more advisable as the area witnesses heavy footfalls and a virtual stampede for two hours during the parade. The lawn would have served a dual purpose as senior citizens could sit and watch the parade, a local said. 
 
 “Plain lawns would have been the most suitable for such an area. Every year, carnival and shigmo, and other events are held here annually. The area is also designated for stalls on feast days,” Daniel D’Souza, a   resident said.
 
 The planting of decorative plants, some of them needing sunlight and regular watering, has been questioned by citizens. “Gardens in the city often suffer due to neglect. Who will ensure that these plants, some of them costly ones, are properly maintained?” a botanist asked.
 
 In the past, citizens have seen tree saplings and lawns laid on this stretch for various events, especially during International Film Festival of India (Iffi), fade away after a few days. "This is a criminal waste of public funds when some departments are crying about lack of funds,” a citizen said.
 
 A Panaji carnival committee member said that barricades are being erected to protect the plants, but citizens said that spectators break the barricades for a better view of the parade.
 
 Annual events along the city’s scenic promenade often draw protests from tree lovers. A few years back, Mandrekar and another activist had filed a police complaint, alleging that stapler pins were used to fix masks and other carnival paraphernalia to the trunks of trees. Organizers also hammer nails into trees to hang lights and illumination. During Iffi 2016, excavators dug near the roots of huge rain trees to prepare beds for planting ornamental shrubbery.
 
 The shifting of the carnival from the current route to the Miramar-Dona Paula road had been welcomed by some citizens. But organizers have said that illumination may be a problem in the area near Goa Science Centre. “We have no role to play in deciding the route though the plants may be affected,” a GSIDC official said.
 
 
