LONDON: Grace has a new face. Heavily kohled eyes that sparkle on occasion and an expression that says nothing save an odd smile of appreciation.

 Venus Williams, the grand dame of the women's game, may have lost on Saturday in what was her ninth   final, but she won hearts. Her tireless spirit doing what her strokes couldn't on a blow-hot, blow-cold London afternoon.
 
 Her opponent, the dazzling Garbine  , 14 years the American's junior, may have claimed the prize, but the older of the celebrated Williams siblings held on to her power. She made a remarkably composed statement after the match, stressing that she'd be back.
 
 The 37-year-old, all power and precision, en route to the final, was obviously out of energy in the title clash against an inspired opponent. In 2011 Venus was diagnosed with Sjogren's syndrome, a chronic autoimmune disease, which is marked by depleting energy levels among other things.
 
 Resolute even in defeat, Venus refused crutches, an illness which is somewhat of an unwanted companion. Her backhands, that were screaming at the start of the match, sparking a full pop when strings struck pelt, were audibly deflated as the match wore on. "She played really well, top tennis," she said of Muguruza. "I have to give her credit for playing a better match. I've had a great two weeks. I'm looking forward to the rest of the summer."
 
 Venus didn't enter the tournament in the best frame of mind, after being blamed initially for a car crash that killed a 78-year-old man not far from her gated community home in Florida. The American even broke down in her first media conference at the  .
 
 "Every tournament's different. This is most certainly a very different tournament," she said of the fortnight. "It took a lot of effort and what have you to get right here today. So this is where I want to be every single major," she finished. Venus said, she was looking ahead. "There's always something to learn from matches that you win and the ones that you don't win. So there's definitely something for me to learn from this. But at the same time, looking back, it's about looking forward, too."
 
 Even though she fully appreciated getting this far in a major, Venus said, she wanted to win. "I like to win. I don't want to just get to a final. It's just about playing a little better."
 
 The American, who lost in the final of the Australian Open to her younger sister, said she was looking forward to the US Open. "I'm in good form. I've been in a position a lot of times this year to contend for big titles. That's the kind of position I want to keep putting myself in," she said. "It's just about getting over the line. I believe I can do that."
 
 Venus Williams' story might not have the glitter of her sister's, the 23-time major winner, but it has more guts and grace than perhaps any story in tennis. 
 
