A popular South Indian actress from   was returning home from a film shoot on Friday night in Kochi when four men intercepted her car forcibly and abducted her. 

 The men reportedly harassed her inside the car before letting her off near Kakkanadu, after which she filed a police complaint. Her driver was arrested on Saturday morning in Kochi, for conspiring and kidnapping her along with a few other men.
 
 Reportedly, senior police officers reached her friend's flat in Kakkanadu, where she had taken shelter, in the wee hours of Saturday and took her statement.
 
 
 
 Kochi DCP Yathish Chandra revealed that the plot to kidnap the actress was hatched by the actress' former driver. “The incident occurred on Friday night at around 9 pm near Athani junction near Angamaly. We have proof that her current driver is involved in the crime and have nabbed him. We suspect her former driver to be the mastermind of the crime. He has criminal antecedents of drug pedaling, chain snatching and hawala cases,” he said. The police say that the accused hit the actress’ car from behind to fake an accident, post which they entered her vehicle by force and took control of it. 
 
 A case has been registered in Nedumbassery Police Station and the investigation is on. Nedumbasseri S I Hari told us, “We can’t say the exact duration she was in the car, as the investigation is on.” When asked under what sections of IPC have the arrests been made, Hari said, “All sections of crimes against women.” 
 
 Police have confirmed that the actress is at home and is doing fine. While we could not reach out to her, producer Yogish Dwarakish, who is close to her, says that contrary to some reports, there was no sexual assault on the actress. “I have spoken to her and her family. They told me that the kidnappers tried to extort money from her. She is in a state of shock. Her mother and brother are with her. What is important is that she is safe,” said Yogesh.
 
 (With inputs from Dhwani.Desai
 @timesgroup.com)
 
 
