KANPUR:  , a terror accused killed in an   (ATS) operation in Lucknow on Wednesday, has now claimed that he knew brother more than any  .
He (Saifullah) had not even killed a bird, what to say of him becoming a  . He had no criminal record in police station of the district.
 
 "Never before, he had indulged in brawl or even a petty fight in the locality. If you don't believe us, just visit a few homes in the vicinity and ask residents or talk to police at the local police out-post to verify the credentials of my brother. We cannot believe that he was radicalised to such an extent. We refused to accept his body but now it's our humble request to each and every government agencies to go for a proper and fair probe and bring the truth before the whole nation," Saifullah's elder brother Khalid said while talking to TOI.
 
 Ayaz, a neighbour of Saifullah said that he was not one who could become a terrorist. "He was the most educated member in his family. He was pursuing BCom (II) and simultaneously doing a computer course," he said.
 Khalid said that about two-and-a half-month ago, Saifullah broke all contacts with his family after being scolded and beaten up by our father in public.
 
 When asked about mother, Khalid said, "It's better, our mother is not alive, otherwise she would have been really pained as being the youngest, he was very close to her mother. 'Jo Allah karte hai, behtari ke liye karte hain' (Whatever Allah does, it does for betterment)."
 
 When questioned did he (Khalid) heard his brother Saifullah saying, 'he wants 'shahadat' (martyrdom), when ATS sleuths roped him to convince his self-radicalised brother by making a phone call. Khalid said, "I begged him (Saifullah) for nearly an hour, telling him about the sufferings of papa (Saifullah's father) but failed to get any kind of response from him. All I could hear was the whispers of ATS sleuths and nothing else. It were only they (ATS sleuths), who had conveyed me about my brother's wish for 'shahadat' (martyrdom)."
 
 On his connection with ex  , Khalid said, "I don't even know about him and never spotted my brother with him."
 
