On the eve of the golden jubilee celebrations of the   ( ), its president Shyam Agrawal shared with TOI how the professional body has helped in protecting   interests and boosting   through ‘Secretarial Standards’. Two such guidelines are helping fair conduct at AGMs and board meetings. Excerpts from the interview:

 Can you highlight how   help improve corporate governance and protect investors?
 
 Before the introduction of Secretarial Standards (SS), companies were following diverse practices and there was a need for integration, harmonisation and standardisation. The ICSI set up a Secretarial Standards Board in 2000. It was the first professional body to do so. However, the concept of introducing Secretarial Standards had been conceived much earlier.
 
 One of the main advantages of Secretarial Standards is that it helps to reduce disputes and litigation, most of which are the outcome of not adhering to the laws or not following the desired practices.
 
 Prior to the introduction of the Secretarial Standards, fear among the stakeholders related to tampering of minutes of meetings, non-circulation of agenda before the meeting, lack of maintenance of proper records, considering items for discussion in the meeting which were not included in the agenda or not adhering to legal provisions for conduct of meetings. To illustrate, it is prescribed that the quorum shall be present not only at the time of commencement of the meeting, but also while transacting business. Or a minimum period of three years is provided for preserving proof of sending notices of meetings.
 
 Directors and key management personnel are entrusted with heavy responsibilities and Secretarial Standards help them streamline the processes and are a source of comfort in discharging their responsibilities.
 
 As the systems and board processes are streamlined, the scope for manipulation is reduced, consequently, so is the cause and scope of litigation. This is of great benefit to regulators.
 
 The recently amended ‘Secretarial Standard on meetings of the BOD’ (SS-1) and ‘Secretarial Standard on general meetings’ (SS-2) have come into force from October 1 and apply to both private and listed companies. Further, these have statutory force under section 118 (10) of the  ,  . How do these help small investors?
 
 A weak process is a sure foundation for management and shareholder’s dispute. Secretarial Standards play a very crucial and pivotal role in establishing robust processes.
 
 Principles of good corporate governance are equally applicable to all companies irrespective of their size and shareholdings. Even small companies will not have any difficulty in complying with Secretarial Standards as it provides enabling clauses in many cases viz with respect to calling meetings at shorter notice, transacting any other business not in the agenda and passing of resolutions by circulation.
 
 Secretarial Standards are not asking the companies to do anything extra, other than the things which they are supposed to do in the interest of corporate governance. 
 
 The standards are simply supplementing the existing laws by streamlining the processes and compliances and in this process the standards are facilitating the companies to do the things in a systematic way. The investor community will have more faith in companies as they know that meeting processes are being conducted in a more transparent and accountable manner.
 
 Secretarial Standards in other areas, like board reports or dividends will be brought out, considering the prevailing practices and the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and its rules.
 
 What are the penalties for non-compliance ? Could you please illustrate?
 
 Non-compliance of Secretarial Standards issued under Section 118 (10) of the Companies Act, 2013 shall attract penal provisions as prescribed under this Act. To illustrate, at present, if any default is made in complying with Secretarial Standards in respect of any meeting, the company shall be liable to a penalty of Rs 25,000 and every officer in default with a penalty of Rs 5,000. Further, Section 118(12) of the Companies Act provides that if a person is found guilty of tampering with the minutes of the proceedings of meeting, he shall be punishable with imprisonment for up to two years and with a fine between Rs 25,000 to Rs 1 lakh.
 
 
