Gurgaon: The delay in acquisition of land to widen Badshapur drain at Khandsa village has left authorities with no option but to look for stop-gap measures to direct rain water overflow, now that the monsoon is not too far away. Government agencies are now trying to widen and deepen the drain in Sector 34 to stop accumulation of water on Delhi-  expressway at  .

 Waterlogging at Hero Honda Chowk had triggered the 30 hour-long ‘Gurujam’ in July 2016, following which, the state government had announced plans to widen Badshapur drain at Khandsa village. To overcome this hurdle, authorities are trying to widen Badshapur drain to 8-14m, from the existing 3-5m in Sector 34. The drain in this part of town, and in some other parts, will also be deepened to increase its water holding capacity. NHAI is also constructing a   on Hero Honda Chowk to allow water to flow from one side of the expressway to the other.
 
 The Haryana chief secretary on Saturday inspected the work on the culvert. On Monday, Gurgaon MLA Umesh Agrawal also held a meeting with municipal commissioner V Umashankar and deputy commissioner Hardeep Singh to review the drain-widening work. “With the construction of culvert and   of drain, we will be able to prevent a situation like last year,” said Agrawal, adding they have also identified choke points for corrective measures.
 
 As per the plan, the drain will be widened and deepened in Sector 34 to increase water-holding capacity and flush excess water into Khandsa drain through the culvert at Hero Honda Chowk. “This way, there won’t be any waterlogging on Hero Honda Chowk,” said the official. Additional water pumps will also be installed at Hero Honda Chowk to keep the busy junction free of waterlogging.
 
 The 39.96km-long and 30m-wide Badshapur drain, which starts from Ghata and empties into Najafgarh drain, narrows down to 10m or less at Khandsa, reducing its carrying capacity from 1,200 cusec to just 500 cusec. During monsoon, over 1,000 cusec water flows into the drain in this area at full pressure, causing waterlogging at Hero Honda Chowk, NH-8 service roads, sectors 33-34 and nearby areas.
 
 “We are widening the drain wherever land is available for it. In other areas, we are   it. All this is aimed at increasing its carrying capacity,” said the official.
 
 
