Rally for Rivers, the   led by Sadhguru, concluded in Delhi on Monday. The month long pan-India rally covered 16 states, enlisting support of governments, civil society, spiritual leaders and media, creating a plan to rejuvenate rivers. This includes planting trees for at least a kilometre on either side of a river and helping farmers upgrade irrigation with professional inputs. In Haridwar on the last leg,   spoke to Vishwa Mohan about the campaign. 
 
 
 
 
 With the help of experts, we have prepared a draft policy on river revitalisation that is a little over 700 pages. We’ll present this to the Centre on October 3 or 4. We will share this with all the states, prominent environmentalists and media houses. We will give them three months to share their wisdom, knowledge and experience. There is no absolutism when it comes to environment. There are always better ways to do certain things. Once this is over, the legislative, legal, cultural and administrative challenges will take another 6 to 12 months. 
 
 
 
 
 Execution will be a big challenge. It is a legislative challenge, a legal challenge, and its execution will also have many complexities. But we have charted out as clear a path as possible. I’m happy to say we’ve been to 15 states ruled by seven different parties who have spoken with one voice. It says something about the maturity of our political system. Even in states in election mode, like Karnataka, the CM, ex-CM and possible future CMs spoke with a single voice for the purpose. 
 
 
 
 
 Tremendous. We crossed 12 crore missed calls five days ago. I’ve been asking for 30 crore. We still have a month. Missed calls are like votes (in the campaign’s favour). About 30 crore is nearly 40% of the electorate. It’ll send a very strong message. 
 
 
 
 
 It’s about setting a national agenda. The task calls for huge financial outlay, and long gestation period. We’re talking 20-25 years for rivers to flourish again. Four to five governments are likely to come and go. All governments must be focused, for which an overwhelming ‘yes’ (in the form of missed calls) must come from India, so they know so many voted for this one cause. 
 
 
 
 
 We want to create a large-scale workable module. India has 20,000 km of riverine land. Nearly 25% of this is government land. This will be forested. We want to prove to farmers that their income from tree-based agriculture will far exceed returns from cropbased agriculture. This will be done in a scientific way. All support will be provided. We are speaking to CII. Baba   has said he will provide minimum support price to farmers for their tree-based produce. Farmers don’t want to shift from paddy and sugarcane, the thirstiest of crops, as these have a support price. We have to tell farmers how the shift from crop-based farming to tree-based farming can increase their income three times over. If farmers get a guarantee that their produce will be procured, they will switch over to the tree based farming. This model will work. 
 
 
 
 
 When in survival mode, as we’ve been in the last 50 years, we did many things and benefited from it. Don’t go about damning the dams now. That was a certain phase of development. Now we’re thinking differently as we want sustainability. There are those for river linking and those against it. I seek a solution. We’ll find one only if science and politics marry and I’m trying to officiate the marriage. 
 
 
 
 The survival rate for what our volunteers are doing on private land is very high. When government plants on a large scale, it can get political. I say don’t announce you’ll plant so much in a day. If you say one year, you can plan better. MP, Maharashtra, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh are doing it, and geo-tagging all trees. So you know when a tree has to be replaced, using technology. 
 
 
 
 
 In the last month, media has done a fabulous job. We appreciate the support of the Times of India, its leadership, the editorial and reporting teams for its relentless support through this month long campaign. TOI took ownership of the   and also published many reports on the state of India’s rivers that raised awareness and will play a role in the making of a river revitalisation policy. There’s been some fantastic reporting in the vernacular media as well. 
 
 
 
 
 I am trying to disconnect the emotion from the behaviour. Emotions do not translate into practice, or action. There is a time for emotions and politics, but now we have to think scientifically and strategically. Which is why, when someone says they’ll plant a tree I say, no, your satisfaction is not a solution. You get me 10 missed calls instead.
 
