AGARTALA: As many as 30 people have been injured in clashes between   and   across the state over the last two days. 

 Police said security has been beefed up in all locations and meetings have been held with leaders of both parties in an appeal for peace.
 
 Tension prevailed in the   area on the outskirts of the city, the northern town of Dharmanagar, in   in Dhalai district and in Teliamura of Khowai district following reported attacks on BJP supporters by CPM activists.
 
 In Kamalpur, five persons were injured in the clash - four among them were from CPM and one was from BJP. 
 
 In Amtali, the situation became volatile after a physical attack on a Yuva Morcha activist allegedly by SFI state secretary Nabarun Deb. Police had to resort to lathi charge to disperse angry BJP activists who tried to storm SFI secretary Nabarun Deb's home. Workers of Yuva Morcha were later joined by its mother organization BJP, who staged an agitation and blockades on NH-44. 
 
 In Kamalpur, BJP workers retaliated heavily when one of their supporters Champalal Baul was reportedly assaulted by CPM cadres. It was alleged that the CPM workers first ganged up on the BJP worker and launched an attack in which he was severely injured. 
 
 In another incident at Dharmanagar, BJP supporters were allegedly attacked by the CPM cadres when they raised allegations of poor-quality construction of a road. At least three persons were injured in the incident.
 
 CPM has denied all allegations and said BJP cadres had, in fact, initiated the attacks in a planned manner to create unrest in the state and mobilize support before its party chief Amit Shah's visit. CPM has sought a police investigation into the matter and urged the people to prevent such violence motivated by the saffron party.
 
 BJP, on the other hand, has levelled a litany of allegations against the party. State BJP vice-president Subal Bhowmik accused CPM party cadres of attacking BJP leader Sunil Debbarma on Wednesday night at Tulashikhar Khowai. The party has lodged a complaint with the police. However, he claimed, police has not taken any action. 
 
