Mumbai: ‘March 1, 2017: Back to business — Arthur Andersen’. This is the bold heading on a post uploaded on the professional networking platform   by  , who is the Paris-based global managing partner of the reconstituted professional services entity, Arthur Andersen. His post, supported by a press release, states that through a French initiative,   is reconstituted as of March 1, with 26 offices in five continents and in 16 countries, which includes India (see graphic). In early 2000s, the accounting scandal at   led to the bankruptcy of this corporation and the folding up of the Arthur Andersen Network, which was one of the five largest professional services firms (referred to as the ‘Big 5’). The network’s US affiliate firm, Arthur Andersen & Co, were the auditors of Enron. 

 Laffont-Réveilhac claims in his post that more than 200 firms had applied to become part of the Arthur Andersen Network since last June. This was followed by a round of interviews, and plans for reconstituting the network were announced in Paris. 
 
 In India, according to professional circles, the alliance is likely to be with   (IBA), a Mumbai-headquartered professional services company founded by partners Kapil Nayyar and Nirav Maniar in 2003. When TOI reached out, founding partner Nayyar declined to comment on the matter. 
 
 Nayyar heads the international taxation and the merger and acquisition (M&A) service line at the firm. Maniar heads the regulation and assurance practices. Including the founding partners, IBA has eleven senior team members in addition to other professionals and provides a wide range of services to clients, including tax, audit, M&A advisory and risk management services. It has offices in Mumbai, New Delhi and Bengaluru. 
 
 “In each country, we are setting up an inter-professional member firm with high-quality players who are fully up to meeting the current needs of clients with a focus on a vision of the future, while maintaining the spirit and historical values of our historic firm founded in 1913 in Chicago,” adds Laffont-Réveilhac in his statement. 
 
 The exact modalities of the operation of Arthur Andersen in India are not yet known. The   (ICAI) regulates the CA profession in the country. The management of the   is vested with a council comprising elected representatives. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, a central council member pointed out the ‘Guidelines for Networking’ issued by the ICAI in September 2011, under which network affiliations are permitted. “A registered CA firm, which is part of a network (say the Arthur Andersen Network) needs to follow these guidelines and is governed by the ICAI’s code of ethics. It can use the words ‘network firm of XYZ’ on its professional stationery. Approval from the ICAI is required for the purpose of affiliation with a foreign entity. Audit can be carried out only via a local partnership firm or limited liability partnership, whose partners are members of the ICAI holding a certificate of practice,” says the member. Another CA says that a private limited company in India can enter into a global alliance and still be out of the purview of the ICAI if it carries out only pure advisory services. Apart from the ‘Big 4’ —  , Ernst & Young,   and   — there are more than 100 network affiliations in India, say industry watchers. 
 
 Harking back to history, after the folding up of the Arthur Andersen Network across the globe, in 2002, there was a partial merger of the Arthur Andersen India firm with Ernst & Young (EY). EY took over its practice apart from consulting. Bobby Parikh, who was then the head of Arthur Andersen in India, took over as CEO of EY, while Kashi Memani continued as chairman and country managing partner of EY. 
 
 Later, in 2004, a group of erstwhile Arthur Andersen partners led by Bobby Parikh broke away from EY to set up BMR Advisors. Mukesh Butani, chairperson, BMR Advisors, told TOI that “BMR is not part of the reconstituted Arthur Andersen”.There is a twist in the reconstitution of Arthur Andersen, which claims to be the rightful holder of the trade name, logo, et al. US-based publications like Accounting Today cite that this contention could be challenged by Andersen Tax, a firm founded by a group of former Andersen partners, which has expanded worldwide.
 
 
