HOWRAh: A   in   has taken   that belonged to a 75-year-old woman who died three days ago. The   had sought his intervention in a dispute over her properties - four houses spread across Howrah and 5kg gold jewellery. 

 Justifying his action to TOI as a "social service to keep the house in safe custody pending settlement of the family feud", Howrah Municipal Corporation's ward 44 councillor Shyamal Ray locked the house and hoisted his party flag outside it on Howrah's Sarat Chatterjee Road where the deceased, Sandhya Nandi, lived. A widow with no children, Sandhya inherited the houses from her businessman husband who bought her the jewellery. Her kin, nephew Dibyendu Khan (40) on one side and sisters Malati Pal and Mamata Dey on the other, are united in opposing the councillor's action though their dispute over Sandhya's property continues to simmer. 
 
 So, intense is their feud that Sandhya's last rites have not been held as both sides have claimed her body that remains in the morgue of the Ekbalpore nursing home where she breathed her last. In fact, Dibyendu has even filed a police complaint claiming his aunt's death was unnatural and some relatives were responsible for it. This has forced Howrah's Chatterjeehat police to ask the nursing home to send the body for autopsy. But the nursing home says it needs to know who is the right claimant to the body first.
 
 When Sandhya fell ill at her Sarat Chatterjee Road house on December 26, Belur residents Malati and Mamata admitted her to a nursing home in their area. She was shifted to the Ekbalpore nursing home on January 14 after her condition deteriorated. She expired on January 16. On Wednesday, Sandhya's warring kin approached the councillor, requesting him to issue a letter in their favour to claim the body. When both sides questioned his action, the councillor told them to first settle their dispute. "He told us till then, Trinamool would hold onto the house," said Dibyendu. "This is strange. It is our family dispute. How can he do this," said Malati who was echoed by Mamata.
 
 Minister Arup Roy said, "The councillor's action is unethical, illegal and against our party's policy." OC Chatterjeehat Samsher Ali said, "We will inquire into the councillor's action but we can't intervene and say who should get the body."
 
 
