Hello! Hall of Fame Awards 2017 brought the who’s who from Bollywood, business and fashion under the same roof last night on March 28, 2017. The event was hosted by actor-singer Sophie Choudry. She sparked off the evening with a song and went on to conduct the evening’s proceedings. 

  
  
 Stars like 
 , 
 , 
 , 
 , 
 , 
  and 
  made their presence felt at the event with spectacular entries. The evening was filled with remarkable speeches from   and Shobhaa De and some fun moments like   making comedian Russell Peters and Brian Bade, CEO Reliance Digital, dance to the tunes of ‘Tamma tamma’.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 Hello! Hall of Fame Awards 2017 were presented by Hello! Magazine that is celebrating a decade of its publication in India. The awards are a yearly affair to honour the best in various fields. Here’s taking a look at the complete list of winners. 
 
 1. Culinary excellence award: Gaggan Anand
 2. Contribution to arts: Akbar Padamsee
 3. Fresh face of the year: Disha Patani
 4. Entertainer of the year: Anushka Sharma
 5. Creative maverick of the year: Hrithik Roshan
 6. New age luxury entrepreneur: Sonu Shivdasani
 7. Contribution to sports: Yashodhara Raje Scindia
 8. Young business leader of the year: Sanjiv Bajaj
 9. Personality of the year: Amitabh Bachchan
 10. Visionary woman of the year: Twinkle Khanna
 11. Timeless icon of the year: Shobhaa De
 12. Outstanding talent of the year: Alia Bhatt
 13. Glamour icon of the year: Katrina Kaif
 14. Humanitarian endeavour: Adar Poonawalla
 15. Excellence in fashion: Sabyasachi Mukherji
 16. Stylish woman of the year: Roohi Jaikishan
 17. Contribution to society: Neerja Birla
 18. Corporate debutant: Manasi Kirloskar
 19. Popular choice: Varun Dhawan
 20. Reliance uber personality of the year: Varun Dhawan
 21. Stylish couple of the year: 
  and Mira Rajput
 22. Lifetime achievement: Amjad Ali Khan
 23. Enterprising personality of the year: Ajay Bijli
 24. Business leader of the year: Harsh Goenka
 
 The evening came to a close with Ruchika Mehta , editor of Hello! Magazine calling over Deepak Lamba and the rest of the team on stage to celebrate the event. 
 
 
