NAGPUR: Following directives from the High Court, the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) has started taking corrective action in the issue of unqualified teachers being posted at the   (SSH) at the   (GMCH). The HC had told   to appoint teachers possessing required qualification on all faculty posts in   and GMCH.

 Dr Sunita Kumbhalkar, one of the two teachers against whom complaints were lodged that they did not meet the criteria for their posts but were posted at SSH for 16 years, was working as the associate professor of cardiology. She has been now transferred to the medicine department at the GMCH. 
 
 Sources say that there are many other such unqualified teachers in the SSH and DMER and college authorities were expected to inquire into it in detail.
 
 There were rumours of transfer of Dr Deepti Chand who has been posted back to GMC as junior consultant for diabetes at the earliest. Both Dr Kumbhalkar and Dr Chand had been blocking the opportunities of other qualified doctors in the SSH. Both of them have not been posted in the departments they were earlier posted at.
 
 Apparently, in the wake of the issue, Dr Sunil Washimkar, associate professor of cardiology, is also likely to be promoted as the head of the cardiology department at the SSH. But as on Monday only Dr Kumbhalkar was transferred to the GMCH.
 
 The HC directives were given when amicus curiae highlighted two posts of associated professors at SSH were not filled according to   (MCI) norms. 
 
 According to the order, the government pleader stated that, the teaching faculty from GMCH was temporarily posted in both the departments, since the qualified faculty person was not available. The pleader then stated that the qualified staff as per MCI norm is now available and directorate of education would take necessary steps. 
 
 In the same hearing, the court had also directed that the   funds allocated annually to medical colleges for purchasing equipment should be completely utilized. In past, there were instances where DPC funds meant for SSH, GMCH and IGMCH were being channelled back to the government as they were non-utilized.
 
 Actually, the High Court during the hearing of an ongoing writ petition 3427 of 2000 (CH Sharma vs state of Maharashtra) has been time and again instructing the state government to fill all the posts, including teaching and non-teaching, in the medical colleges. But the state authorities have been taking their own time to solve issues related to all medical colleges. 
 
 
