PANAJI: Speculations are rife in the political circles that the BJP is wooing two Congress MLAs to its fold in a bid to fortify its numbers in the assembly and also with eyes on the  .

 BJP managers are of the view that the party would be in a commanding position if its strength in the assembly could go up by 3-4 MLAs from the present 13. Currently, Goa Forward Party (GFP) and the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP), that have three MLAs each and the two independent MLAs, are alliance partners of the BJP. 
 
 Working in this direction, BJP managers are in touch with United Goans Party (UGP) supremo Atanasio Monserrate alias Babush Monserrate, sources said. The buzz is that Atanasio may ask his wife Jennifer, who represents the Taleigao constituency, and Tony Fernandes, who he had 'loaned' to the Congress (St Cruz seat), to quit the Congress.
 
 Analysts opine that BJP will have a very smooth run if Atanasio is not the main rival in the bypoll, presuming that Parrikar will contests from Panaji. BJP won the Panaji seat with a little over 1,000 votes this 2017 assembly polls. Sidharth Kunkalienker proved to be a giant killer when he defeated Atanasio. But for a victory by a huge margin in the bpoll, BJP might need the support of Atanasio, sources say. 
  
 A senior BJP functionary and a few of Atanasio’s close aides told TOI that initial talks between Parrikar and Atanasio have been held, but nothing has been finalized as of now. They said that BJP has promised the former St Cruz MLA that Jennifer will be given a good position. Atanasio who has a couple of criminal cases against him, may get a good deal. 
  
 Questioned about whether he is in talks with the BJP to get Jennifer and Fernandes into the saffron fold, Atanasio besides saying “many things will happen in politics in the next few months”, refused to divulge anything else.
 
 On the same topic, BJP state president Vinay Tendulkar denied that such a move was made.
 
 Another senior BJP functionary, who is part of the BJP core committee, said that Jennifer and Fernandes need not necessarily join the BJP and added that they could quit the Congress, contest the bypolls on the UGP ticket, and extend support to the coalition.
 
 BJP sources said that though Curchorem MLA Nilesh Cabral offered to resign to allow Parrikar to contest from his constituency, Parrikar is keen on contesting from Panaji, a seat he has won five times in a row now. “The decision as to which seat Parrikar will contest will be taken shortly,” a BJP senior leader said.
 
 Speculations that Atanasio may ask Fernandes to resign as ST Cruz MLA and then contest the bypolls from the constituency are also making the rounds in political circles.
 
