KOLKATA: An afternoon downpour left several Kolkata streets waterlogged on Thursday, disrupting traffic in and around the central business district. Even though the waterlogging subsided around 4pm, the traffic disruption continued till early evening. 

 Additionally, a severe lightning strike paralyzed the telephone services of the fire services headquarters at Mirza Ghalib Street. Mayor   visited the fire brigade headquarters in the evening to inspect the damage.
 
 The city received 24.8mm rain on Thursday. Manicktala, Rawdon Street, Camac Street, Palmerbazar, Chetla, Thanthania, Jodhpur Park and Kalighat were inundated by the rain that started around 2pm. It made traffic move at a snail’s pace on J L Nehru Road, AJC Bose Road and Shakespeare Sarani. Traffic was also affected under the major underpasses and a section of  . 
 
 A high tide, which struck at 3.54pm, contributed to the waterlogging. The Kolkata Municipal Corporation drainage department found it difficult to flush out water from low-lying areas. Muktarambabu Street, Ultadanga underpass, M G Road, Strand Road, Bhowanipore, Chetla, Behala, Tollygunge and stretches of EM Bypass remained waterlogged till 4pm.
 
 The rain was triggered by an active monsoon trough that passed through south Bengal. But the low-pressure over Jharkhand that caused heavy rain last week has moved away towards  . “Its impact on Kolkata weather was minimal on Thursday. But the monsoon trough is passing through Diamond Harbour and Haldia. So Kolkata and the adjoining areas will continue to receive light to moderate showers,” said  , director,   (RMC). 
 
 The RMC described the shower as normal monsoon rain. “So long as the trough exists, the region will have showers. But there is no low-pressure in sight at the moment,” said a Met official.
 
 This month has been exceptionally wet in Kolkata. The city has already received more than double the normal rain. According to the Met office, successive low-pressures and an active monsoon trough have been responsible for the heavy rain this month. While the normal average rainfall count in Kolkata is 361mm, the city had received less rain in five years since 2010. According to the Met office, absence of low-pressure systems have been primarily responsible for the deficit. 
 
 “It often happens that a relatively dry July is followed by an unusually wet August. The city hasn’t had a big seasonal deficit in recent years,” said Das.
 
