Gurgaon: It has been more than a week since Ryan student Pradhyumn Thakur was murdered allegedly by a school bus conductor on the campus, but the school authorities are yet to adhere to the security guidelines mandated by the Supreme Court. Several private buses, which are operating for the school, do not have women attendants and CCTV cameras.

 According to the SC guidelines for children’s transportation, school buses or vans should be painted in yellow, should display “on school duty” board in the front and rear ends, carry children only as per its seating capacity, carry first-aid box and install GPS (global positioning system). Besides this, drivers should have at least five years of experience.
 
 TOI on Monday found that school bus drivers of Ryan are still making a mockery of the SC guidelines. Mosin Khan, who has been driving a private van for Ryan, Bhondsi, doesn’t have a proper uniform, which is mandatory according to the security guidelines. He ferries around 30 children every day. “I have been driving the bus for Ryan school for around five years. But the school has never given me a uniform, and nobody has stopped me for not wearing the uniform. None of the drivers, who ply buses for the school, have been given training in security measures. Yes, I have a commercial driving licence,” he said. Mosin said he also didn’t get a badge identifying him as the driver of the school. The bus also doesn’t have a woman attendant.
 
 Gurgaon deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh said several lapses were found on part of the school authorities. “We are looking into all the failures. We will also find out why the driver was not in a proper uniform. All irregularities will be examined.”
 
 Strict security guidelines drafted by the director, secondary education (Haryana) have already been sent to all schools across the state. Despite this, several schools are found to be violating mandatory norms.
 
 However, police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar said a challan drive would be carried out in due course in the city.
 
  “An appropriate action will be taken against school bus drivers, if they are found to be flouting the motor vehicle Act,” Khirwar said.
 
 
