LUCKNOW: Air and  , smelly and dirty water and choking and overflowing drains have led to people in   asking for basic 'hawa, paani' every election. For several years, residents say, their basic demand to get clean water has fallen on deaf ears.

 Air and noise pollution, smelly and dirty water and choking and overflowing drains have led to people in Lucknow central assembly constituency asking for basic `hawa, paani' every election. For several years, residents say, their basic demand to get clean water has fallen on deaf ears.
 
  & DALIGANJ
 
 “It has been close to 15 years that we have got stinking, yellow-coloured water that cannot be used for drinking. Children fall ill and people have stomach concerns as a routine. But politicians never pay attention to it," complained Ayub Umar, a resident of Model House. “We have to boil water every time to make it worthy of drinking. How are children going to be healthy and the area disease-free if such an important issue is not an election concern?" questions Girija Devi of Daliganj.
 
 HEWETT ROAD
 
 While submersible pumps have been set up in adjoining areas, residents say they are not only insufficient for the population but also neglected when they malfunction. “We have to get them cleaned and contribute money ourselves for repair. No authority looks back. But everyone comes shamelessly to ask for votes," said Sharda Prasad from Hewett Road.
 
 HAZRATGANJ
 
 With  , increasing number of vehicles and mismanagement of traffic, residents of Hazratganj have been facing severe respiratory problems.“I hardly go out, but pollution is such that breathing within the house is difficult too," said Rekha Chabhra, a resident of Park Road.
 
 NARHI & DALIBAGH 
 
 For residents of Narhi, while civil hospital is a stone's throw away, its approach is a challenge. “There is a garbage heap close to the hospital and stray animals block the way. No one pays heed to these issues," said Narayan Srivastava.
 
 “I had to be treated by an ENT specialist to get rid of the ill-effects of horns on my ears. Why is pollution not part of anyone's agenda?" said Hardeep Kaur, a resident of Dalibagh.
 
