HYDERABAD: From social activists and entrepreneurs to scientists and Army personnel, speakers from various walks of life gathered at the indoor stadium in Gachibowli, on Sunday , to participate in the third edition of TEDx Hyderabad, an independent event licensed by TED and organized by the Society for Advancement of Human Endeavour (SAHE).

 The theme for this year's event, which was attended by around 2,000 people, was `Do'.Among the speakers who took to the stage to share their ideas was AP Hota, the former managing director of National Payments Corporation of India (NCBI).
 
 “Now, India has the opportunity of building a less-cash society . Less-cash or cash-less societies are being implemented in smaller counties such as Singapore, Norway and  . However, it is a challenge in India,“ said Hota, who was MD and chief executive officer of NCPI for more than eight years before retiring earlier this year.
 
 “The Bill Payment System, Toll Gate Payments, Transactions Payments (BTT) is set to change the entire scenario of digital financial inclusion in the country ,“ he added.
 
 Entrepreneur and Padmashri awardee  , shared her rags-to-riches story with those present. “My story of success is a testimony to the fact that it is not degrees that make you successful entrepreneurs but grit, determination and perseverance. I was born into a poor family and was married, when I was only 12, to an unemployed man. I had to live in a slum in Mumbai,“ said Saroj, while pointing out that it was her sister's death due to ill-health that really opened her eyes to the importance of money . “I took a loan and started a business and from there on, my journey as a businesswoman started,“ said Saroj.
 
 Addressing the gathering, retired Army general and   (AMU) vice chancellor, Lt Gen Zameer Uddin Shah pointed to a culture of `discipline', be it at university campuses across the country or within the Indian army itself, as one of the most important traits.
 
 Others who spoke at the day-long event included actor Rana Daggubati, social entrepreneur  , activist and co-founder of antitrafficking organization Prajwala, Sunitha Krishnan, para-athlete Mark Dharmai, president of the US-India Strategic Partnership  , Mukesh Aghi, Social Entrepreneur, Pradeep Lokhande, Elca Grobler, photojournalist GMB Akash, CEO of genomics company Mapmygenome, Anu Acharya and transgender activist Gauri Sawant.
 
