The medium-sized  , that caters to the drinking water needs of the Bicholim and Bardez talukas, is under threat due to indiscriminate felling of trees in its  .

 On Tuesday, Geerish Bailudkar, who holds the additional charge of range forest officer (RFO), Pernem, was not in the position to complete the panchanama of the large area that has witnessed felling of more than 1,000 trees. Presently, the forest staff of Keri and Pernem have been involved in counting the number of felled trees, and will be joined by staff from the Ponda forest range.
 
 On receiving information of the illegal activity, deputy conservator of forests, South Goa, Anil Shetgaokar, immediatly informed the forest officials concerned, but they could not locate the deforested patch. However, RFO Bailudkar and the president of   from Bicholim, Amrut Singh, were successful in locating the deforested area at Vadawal in Latambarcem.
 
 The sub-divisional forest officer of Mapusa, Shrikrishna Prabhu, who visited the deforested area in Latambarce, said, “Pradip Rane from Vadawal has accepted that he, with the help of labourers, cleared the forested area owned by his family, felling more than 1,000 trees in an area measuring almost 250 acres. Except for the cashew trees, the indigenous species of trees such as madat, kindal, jamo and others were felled. These felled trees have been cut into logs and stacked. We have booked an offence under the Goa Tree Preservation Act.”
 
 Amrut Singh, while speaking to TOI, said, “The illegal activity is being carried out over a period of time. Last year, during the summer, one could see tree stumps near the waterline of the reservoir of the Amthane dam. Presently, the damage done recently is immense. The large number of trees cut will intensify the rate of soil erosion. This is bound to reduce the reservoir’s capacity and damage the embankment of the dam.”
 
 The work of the Amthane dam was initiated to augment irrigation in neighbouring areas, but this dam presently caters to drinking water needs of villages of Bardez and Bicholim talukas.
 
 Sources said that tree felling was going on for more than a fortnight and around 25 labourers were involved in the activity. RFO Geerish Bailudkar said, “Till Tuesday eveining, we were able to locate 210 felled trees. We will complete the counting of trees by Wednesday.”
 
 
