MUMBAI: When you're studying to be a nurse, your part-time weekend job will have you working at a clinic or hospital. But American   Enriquez is quite an exception to that. While he studies how to take care of patients, his weekend 'fun' job is quite a risky one.

 The 22-year-old will be the youngest navigator in the P1 Powerboat, Grand Prix of the Seas to be held at   from March 3-5. It means that he'll be guiding the driver of the 28-foot long boat in the race that could see turns being taken at a speed of 90 kmph. Talk about adrenaline rush! Speaking with TOI at an event to announce the teams,   said he finds similarities in his jobs as a nurse and guiding a boat though it may appear completely different.
 
 "As a nurse, you have to anticipate a patient's need. If you work in trauma then you need to think on your feet and that can be very challenging. Same goes with being a navigator in a powerboat. You have to anticipate turns and think about what your opponents are going to do. So yeah, I guess they're similar in that way," Enriquez said.
 
 He didn't think he'll ever make it big in power boating though. In fact, Enriquez, who finished top of the P1 SuperStock   in his hometown Florida, says it wasn't his intention to get involved with power boating at all.
 
 As a 14-year-old, he wanted some pocket money, so he started working with the   (Florida) racing team. His job was basically to clean trucks, sweep the floor et al. But soon, he took interest in the sport and since he was around at the training centre, he got tips from the other racers. In a couple of years, he worked his way up to actually driving the boat.
 
 "It's really the thrill and the rush that got me inclined towards the sport. I mean on land, you know you have to drive on the road, but on water, every day is different. You never know the conditions. It's a big challenge especially because you're not just driving, you're racing. The turns are absolutely insane," he said.
 
 So does he intend on keeping powerboating a 'weekend thing'? "Well, you see, I need to complete my education first so I have something to fall back upon. To be honest, I would love to continue with powerboating, but I also need to get a sponsor. Firstly, I never dreamed I'll be here today, so I'm taking it one day at a time. Let's see how it turns out."
 
