MUMBAI: In the last two decades as   in Mumbai has shot up, recommendations made by   like the   (TRS) and   have remained non-starters. The state as well as civic agencies have rejected the proposals in favour of big infrastructure projects like flyovers, Metro and monorail.

 The TRS was first proposed in 2000 by an HC-appointed committee headed by then transport commissioner V M Lal. As per the scheme, during peak hours, vehicles with number plates ending with 1 and 2 would be barred entry into the island city on Mondays, 3 and 4 on Tuesdays, 5 and 6 on Wednesdays, 7 and 8 on Thursdays and 9 and 0 on Fridays. The state, however, has consistently rejected TRS as “not feasible“ relying on a 2004 report by then joint police commissioner P S Pasricha. Almost a decade later in 2013, another HC-appointed 11-member panel, headed by additional chief secretary (home) Amitabh Rajan, recommended a congestion charge to restrict the number of vehicles in certain areas and suggested a two-to-three-year timeframe for its introduction.
 
 The congestion charge recommendation was made in a PIL by the Bombay Bar Association. The PIL was recently revived as measures ordered by the HC have not been implemented.
 
 A former state transport commissioner had proposed, a few years ago, that to reduce congestion in commercial districts, parking charges should be hiked. He had also proposed increasing cess on dieselpetrol cars and use the funds to run public transport. Some of these proposals were not cleared by the government and remained dormant in files, sources said.
 
 Another senior IAS officer, who requested anonymity , was in favour of suggestions made by experts, which included imposition of congestion tax to enter commercial hubs or areas which faced maximum traffic due to private vehicles. “The growth rate of cars may be higher in some cities like Delhi, but in Mumbai, the problem is critical as the road length has not increased substantially over the past 20 years,'' the officer stated.
 
 At a recent meeting of few transport experts with BEST committee chairman Anil Kokil at Colaba, the former had mentioned that “the congestion created by massive increase in private vehicles had led to slowing down of BEST buses and affected the frequency of public transport vehicles.“ At the same time, the traffic police were reportedly contemplating restrictions on the entry and parking of inter-city private buses and heavy vehicles to ease congestion.Its recent circular on restricting entry of heavy vehicles and private buses in SoBo from 7 am to midnight is now kept on hold.
 
 Activists, however, are not in favour of “knee jerk“ measures. According to advocate Armin Wandrewale, who has been pursuing a PIL for implementation of rules, the civic authorities need to put in place infra like traffic signals, marking lanes and zebra crossings. “The need of the hour is strict enforcement of laws, a crackdown on illegal parking and implementation of traffic management infrastructure,“ he said.
 
