NEW DELHI: A retired judge of Orissa high court Ishrat Masroor Quddusi and five private persons, including a woman, have been booked by   in a corruption case for allegedly conspiring to settle a Medical Council of India (MCI) debarment order against a private medical college.

 The   (CBI) has named Quddusi under the Prevention of Corruption Act which deals with taking gratification in order to influence a public servant and for criminal conspiracy under the Indian Penal Code. Also named for the same offences are Delhi-based Bhawna Pandey, Bhubaneswar-based Biswanath Agrawala, both suspected to be conduits, B P Yadav and Palash Yadav, who run Prasad Institute of Medical Science in Lucknow and one Sudhir Giri.
 
 Quddusi, CBI has alleged, with assistance of middlemen including Pandey, not only guided the functionaries of the private medical college but also assured favourable settlement of their case in the Supreme Court. Pandey was arrested by CBI in 2001 along with ex-chairman of   ( ) B P Verma, said sources.
 
 The agency had received an information that Prasad Institute of Medical College was among 46 colleges barred by the government from admitting medical students for the forthcoming one or two years because of substandard facilities and non-fulfilment of the required criteria. B P Yadav and Palash Yadav, who run the institute, had challenged the debarment in the Supreme Court earlier this year.
 
 On August 1, the   directed the government to consider the material on record afresh, pertaining to the issue of confirmation or otherwise of the letter of permission granted to the petitioner college. The government then gave an opportunity of hearing and passed a reasoned decision on August 10, 2017 to debar the college from admitting fresh students for the two years — 2017-18 and 2018-19 and also authorised MCI to encash the bank guarantees of Rs 2 crore.
 
 CBI received information that B P Yadav got in touch with Quddusi and Pandey through one Sudhir Giri of Venkateshwara Medical College in Meerut and conspired for getting the matter settled.
 
 “Information further revealed that on the advice of I M Quddisi, the petition was withdrawn from the apex court on August 15, 2017 and a petition was filed in in Allahabad high court,” said CBI in its FIR.
 
 The   passed an order directing that the petitioners’ college shall not be delisted from the list of colleges notified for counselling till the next date of listing – August 31, 2017. After filing the FIR, CBI teams carried out raids in Delhi, Bhubaneswar and Lucknow including Quddusi’s residence in Greater Kailash, premises of middlemen and a hawala dealer. Pandey is also located in GK.
 
 Agrawala was held while collecting Rs 1 crore bribe money from hawala dealer Ram Dev Saraswat in Delhi meant for payments to public functionaries. He may be arrested soon, said sources.
 
 Earlier, a CBI team reached the residence of a sitting Orissa HC judge in Bhubaneswar, leading to furore in the state. The Orissa high court Bar Association ceased the work while condemning the raids on a sitting judge. However, CBI clarified that “there were no raids on any sitting judge”. CBI said there was confusion because the address of a sitting judge in Bhubaneswar was also the official address of Quddusi before retirement and hadn’t been changed in records available with them. “The team was immediately called back and no raid happened at sitting judge’s house,” he said.
 
 Then, MCI approached the Supreme Court through a Special Leave Petition against the Allahabad HC order.
 
 CBI says that BP Yadav requested Quddusi and Pandey, who assured to get the matter settled in the apex court through their contacts, further engaged Agrawala for the settlement.
 
 Agrawala claimed very close contact with senior relevant public functionaries and assured he would get the matter favourably settled, for which he demanded huge gratification for inducing the public servants.
 
 
