KOLKATA:   has the visage of a high-borne leader like  , he also knows how to carry himself with a swagger reminiscent of one   in his prime. No wonder, many a   had attributed his failure to claim the British Prime Minister’s office to a booze-filled barbeque party and a poorly-timed cricket match,  

 But Johnson likes the liaison amoureuse going. “You must enjoy yourself,” he says.
 
 During a visit to former Indian Test cricketer Arun Lal’s cricket academy on Thursday, the British foreign secretary was his usual self. With around 150 kids training at the facility, Johnson meant business. He walked into the academy, and some handshakes and officialese later, he headed for a practice net. One hit from the sweet spot, and Johnson was hungry for more. The sun was about to set and the dust settle after another busy day at Maidan, but Johnson, all of 52, was geared up to kick up a storm.
 
 Like many with a bat in his hand, Johnson didn’t like being beaten outside the off. One of the bowlers did exactly that, and found to everyone’s surprise, Johnson running behind to fetch the ball and get ready to face another one. The foreign secretary was looking for “a fitting reply”.
 
 Johnson had his share of surprises too. At the height of this cricket camaraderie, aspiring cricketer Ayan Naushad walked up to him to greet him. All of 13, he dwarfed Johnson with his imposing figure of 6ft 3 inches. “I am pleased with the organised manner in which the boys are being groomed. I am not surprised the visiting England team are getting whipped by the Indians,” he said.
 
 Lal said Johnson’s visit was boost for the kids. “Johnson was relaxed, joyous and he has a great sense of humour. That’s remarkable,” he said.
 
 When told Virat Kohli was out for 8 in the second ODI in Cuttack, Johnson said: “Oh really! That’s good.”
 
 The UK foreign secretary, chief guest for a debate at Presidency University, signed off: “It’s a pleasure to be back in India, a wonderful, beautiful and thriving country. As two modern, diverse democracies, the UK and India are natural partners and we are committed to working together to promote our people’s prosperity, improve global security and tackle the challenges that both our countries face today.”
 
 
