BATHINDA: The state agriculture department has formulated a comprehensive action plan to control crop stubble fires. The various measures adopted under the plan include preparing video clips of doctors spreading awareness about the ill-effects of stubble burning, creating mobile app with   remote sensing centre and a green challenge fund to promote alternate uses of paddy straw.

 The state government also plans to set up 28 farm machinery banks in all districts, providing subsidies on straw management machinery and free ‘Happy Seeders’ to small and marginal farmers in a cluster in   as an experiment. The department has organised 2,540 awareness camps till mid-September, asking farmers not to burn stubble. 
 
 Punjab agriculture director   and joint director  , who is nodal officer to check stubble burning, said the districts have been released Rs 15 crore to provide agriculture equipment on subsidy. Last year, the amount was Rs 20.23 crore. Farmers who have purchased the equipment meant for residue management would be eligible for subsidy, provided they fulfil the conditions laid out under these schemes. 
 
 ‘Happy Seeders’ equipment would be provided free of cost to small and marginal farmers in selected cluster of villages to achieve zero burning in Patiala district. The department has decided to create a mobile app with Punjab Remote Sensing Centre, Ludhiana, to encourage the use of all equipment to its full capacity and easy access to farmers not owning machinery, they said.
 
 The primary agriculture co-operative societies (PACS), having crop residue management machinery, would provide these machines free of cost to 20% of small and marginal farmers, out of the total number to whom services of these machine would be provided.
 
 Government has set up a ‘Green Challenge Fund’ of Rs 5 crore for promoting alternative uses of paddy straw. This award would be given to anyone who can come up with an economically viable solution for decomposing biomass. Farm machinery banks for residue management are being set up in the state, for which Rs 1.90 crore has been released. There are 28 such banks in various districts of the state.
 
 Deputy commissioners have been asked to share video clips of prominent doctors of respective areas in social media to apprise people about ill effects of stubble burning, said Bains. 
 
