Government has released new data that shows   deliveries are on a rapid rise in private hospitals across the country. Recently   created stir by calling caesarean section surgeries a racket. Tweeting about the issue, she wrote, “I'd like to share my concern over alarming percentage of   surgeries being conducted in hospitals these days. This issue has been deeply worrying me as it has direct linkage with the health of women per se... The situation is much worse in private hospitals, which is a matter of grave concern.” 

 Countering the ‘racket’ statement, Dr Duru Shah, Scientific Director of Gynaecworld and the Gynaecworld Assisted Fertility Center, Mumbai, India and Consultant to the Breach Candy Hospital, Jaslok Hospital, says, “Recently on a talk show, a man suggested having a committee that should be involved for every C-section. I feel this recommendation is absolutely foolish, especially for a doctor who has years of clinical experience. Sometimes the decision to perform a C-section is made on the spot. It can be a life-saving emergency procedure and it is unnecessary sometimes to wait till the last minute and let the baby’s heart beat drop. The damage to the baby’s brain, in this case, can be irreversible. If I can prevent the baby from going to the ICU, I will do everything possible to deliver him in a healthy manner.” She also reiterates the fact that with the advent of technology, doctors are constantly monitoring the fetus and can immediately assess a situation when the need for C-section is inevitable.
 
 But there are also some wrong reasons that caesarean section deliveries happen. Dr Vijaya Krishnan, CPM (Certified Professional Midwife) USA, LCCE, FACCE, DPF, Healthy Mother Wellness & Care, Member of Medela India Lactation Consultant's Club shares one of the reasons. "The mother and the whole family take the estimated date of   (EDD) extremely seriously. They should know that it is just a date and mother should not insist on having induced labour or a C-section, once they cross the date. Moms need to understand that we cannot be absolutely accurate about gestational dates. I personally tell all expectant mothers to not worry until 42 weeks, which is two weeks past the due date, as long as mother and baby are well. If the baby is taking longer, it is most likely because it is not ready to come out yet." If the baby is forced to come out before time, it can lead to increased incidences of respiratory distress. 
 
 So what makes C-section so undesirable? As with any surgery, C-section can have some long-term effects in the mother and can impact the baby too. While a mother is at risk of infection at the incision place, blood loss, extended recovery time, adverse reaction to pain medication, the baby, studies suggest, can impact a baby’s brain health. Recently a research was conducted comparing the ‘spatial attention of babies delivered vaginally with those born via C-sections’. The study showed that C-section impacts concentration abilities and slows down the spatial attention, which impacts their ability to prioritize and focus on something of interest. 
 
 Dr Shah explains, “Many people are unaware that there is a 15 per cent risk for any woman who goes for vaginal delivery. And when compared with C-section, the risk is almost the same.” There are studies that claim that kids born from caesarean are not as mentally adept as those born through vaginal delivery. Dr Shah rubbishes it and says, “A baby’s brain can be affected when the mother and her family is desperate for vaginal delivery, and in the process reach a stage of emergency when caesarean has to be done to save the life of a baby. It could affect oxygen levels to the baby’s brain.”
 
 
 
 If the baby is in breech position (bottom-down)
 If the baby is in sideways position or keeps changing his position, also known as unstable lie
 If the mother has a low-lying placenta (central placenta praevia)
 If the mother has a medical condition like heart disease or diabetes
 If the baby’s growth is restricted and lagging behind by almost three weeks, it is safer to do a caesarean because the baby is also in distress and the situation can turn worse due to lack of oxygen. For the uninitiated, when uterus contracts, the blood supply to the baby is cut off. A normal baby has a reserve for five minutes but a baby who is already compromised, can go into severe distress. 
 If the mother has severe pre-eclampsia or eclampsia, it can be dangerous to delay the birth. It is a life-threatening condition that causes high blood pressure and kidney damage. 
 If the mother is expecting twins (or more babies) and they both are in different positions, for example, one is breech. If both are head down, vaginal delivery can happen
 If the mother had one caesarean section, there is a risk of the scar to rupture during second labour. However, mothers with a caesarean have also had normal vaginal deliveries. 
 
 
 
 There are doctors who may be opting for caesarean because of both money and convenience. However, when it comes to the commercial side of delivery, Dr Shah feels, C-section should indeed be cheaper. “In my own practice, most doctors charge the same for both normal and C-section deliveries. In fact, I would charge less for a C-section, which is planned and takes less time than a normal delivery. A case of normal delivery can take up to 10 hours and the doctor has to be constantly monitoring the well being of both mother and child.” 
 
  “If a mother insists for a C-section, I try to advise her in favour of vaginal delivery but if the situation demands a C-section, I go ahead with it. My top priority is to ensure that both the mother and baby go home happily,” she adds. 
 
 
