GREATER NOIDA: Maimed by an electricity line in 2015 that practically left the lower half of his body useless and stole his capacity to earn a livelihood, a 28-year-old man has sought permission from the President to end his life.

 Besides losing the ability to walk, Kanhaiya Lal also had to have an intestine removed after the accident, which happened when he came into contact with an 11kV line passing through his fields. His face and neck were burnt too, and his eyesight has been slowly on the mend.
 
 But treatment has taken a huge financial toll on the family of the Rabupura ( )-based farm labourer, who has four children and parents who live with him. His house too is on mortgage. “We took money on credit from some villagers and now we are at a stage of starvation,” Kanhaiya said in his letter addressed to the President, which he submitted at the district magistrate’s office. “We have written to the UP government multiple times, seeking aid from the CM’s Relief Fund. However, we did not receive any relief from the government in the past two years. We are unable to bear the burden of the treatment and bringing up the four kids too,” read the letter. He said he was seeking permission for   since he would not be able to pay back loans and his family would simply not be able to cope with the financial burden of his medical costs. 
 
 So far, the treatment has cost him Rs 9 lakh. “I took loan mortgaging my house,” Kanhaiya told TOI. After the accident, Kanhaiya Lal’s family had lodged an FIR against two officials of the electricity department on June 29. Power corporation UPPCL gave them a sum of Rs 1 lakh.
 
 Tragedy had struck around 10am on June 15 two years ago when Kanhaiya was on his way to return a plastic pipe to a villager through the fields of  .
 
 “In one field, an iron angle supporting a barbed wire had been erected on a three-foot-high wall, which was touching an 11 kV wire. Upon coming in contact with the wire, my husband was electrocuted so badly that one of his intestines came out,” reads the FIR filed by Kanhaiya’s wife Manju on June 29.
 
 The FIR was lodged against two officials of UPPCL under Section 338 (causing grievous hurt by an act endangering life or personal safety). On July 16, 2015, Manju wrote to the National Human Rights Commission and the SSP Gautam Budh Nagar.
 
 
