PANAJI: Will defence minister   return to Goa as its   after the February 4 polls if BJP forms the government? The buzz started after the   for transport Nitin Gadkari, who is BJP in-charge of Goa polls, made a statement last week that the next BJP CM need not necessarily be from among the elected legislators as someone could be sent from the Centre.

 BJP’s national president Amit Shah heightened the prevailing suspense by stating on Monday that whether Parrikar would return or not will be decided after the polls but the next government would be under his leadership wherever he may be.
 
 Enquiries revealed that the statements by Gadkari and Shah seem to be directed at those voters who want to see Parrikar back as CM. “BJP is having a tough time. Many of their supporters are disillusioned. Not that other parties are doing any better. But the BJP is not sure of crossing 15 as of now. Hence, its think tank has come with this strategy to boost the morale of its supporters,” said a poll watcher.
 
 It also seems to be a poll trick to woo the young voters who are a bit confused and look at the option of AAP for their “clean politics”. 
 
 Another analyst said that if not at all-Goa level, the strategy is directed at certain constituencies for sure. One is the Panaji constituency. The constituency represented by Parrikar in the Goa assembly for a record five times, is under threat. Former Taleigao MLA Atanasio ‘Babush’ Monserrate is making a determined bid to capture the seat. For Parrikar, it’s a highly prestigious seat.
 
 While there are a few small slums, the capital city has a huge chunk of electors from the higher middle class. These include the highly influential voters belonging to the GSB (Gaud Saraswat Brahmin) community. The BJP finds itself in a situation where three contestants belong to the same community. 
 
 The sitting MLA, Sidharth Kuncolienker who was Parrikar’s nominee for the 2015 bypolls held after the former CM was elevated to the Modi cabinet, belongs to the same samaj. The others are AAP’s Valmiki Naik and Goa Suraksha Manch’s Ketan Bhatikar.
 
 According to preliminary reports, Monserrate has made inroads in BJP-dominated pockets. This is expected to compel the defence minister to move house-to-house to lure voters for his candidate.
 
 For the 2015 bypolls, there was no unanimity when Parrikar nominated Sidharth. The fear in their camp is that the undercurrent may be exploited by Monserrate. If GSM succeeds in garnering sizeable votes, the BJP could be on danger line.
 
 Similarly in Margao, Fatorda, Bicholim and Canacona, the Parrikar effect could make a difference, according to the party men.
 
 Sources said Prime Minister   may not give a go-ahead to Parrikar if he wishes to be the ‘king’ in Goa instead of being the ‘prince’ in the national capital. There are no clear cut indications though. Nagpur-headquartered RSS had indicated last year, when speculations were doing the round, that Parrikar is needed at the Centre.
 
 Secondly, there is no talk of who will sacrifice his seat if Parrikar returns to be the chief minister. Who will vacate the seat for Parrikar? His nominee in Panaji—Sidharth Kuncolienker or someone else is not known. Three, it may not be cakewalk for him outside Panaji considering that opposition could unite to put up a formidable fight.
 
 Enquiries revealed that BJP leaders seem divided over Parrikar’s possibility to return as Goa CM. While one section, mainly from the high class-caste, wish the move should come true, on the other hand, for some, CM Laxmikant Parsekar has done a good job and is capable to take Goa forward completing the unfinished tasks.
 
 The statements of both Gadkari and Shah seem to be have impacted, to some extent, the campaign of Parsekar in Mandrem. “Some of our workers are upset that Parsekar has not been declared as the CM candidate. If he had been declared so, we would have won by a thumping majority. Now, to make matters worse, they are making statements of return of Parrikar bhai. This is a bit demoralizing for us as our sir has worked very hard, from morning to night, to serve the state,” said a BJP worker in Arambol. 
 
 
