LUCKNOW: A TOI reporter's off-hand mention of 'BJP' at Sharma   made tea drinker Rajesh Mishra spot an instant connect between the party's name and the `glass' of tea in his hand.

 “Ever since a chaiwallah became the PM, tea-sellers have developed a link with BJP. It has acted as a booster for chaiwallahs,“ he said. After a little prodding, Mishra came up with his reading of Uttar Pradesh's political undercurrent. “BJP does not seem to be coming to power here.Though it's always a 10% loss for the ruling party due to anti-incumbency factor, it will be a victory for Akhilesh for the second time,“ he said.On a relaxed weekend afternoon, the small park in front of the tea stall had a fair share of people, some sitting on the rounded benches and others on the fence of the park and cemented platform built around a tree.
 
 Given the political build up in the wake of assembly elections in UP, any political discussion at a place like Sharma's is enough to make heads turn. No wonder Mishra was joined by others in the discussion at the tea shop.
 
 “I wonder why BJP did not launch a movement when S was battling a family feud.They could have grabbed the opportuni ty. If this feud goes on, BJP might have truck with BSP,“ said RK Tiwari.
 
 People did not shy from giving credit to incumbent chief minister Akhileh Yadav. Abhay Sharma said, “Even Kejriwal had talked about development in Delhi but once he came to power, his promises proved to be concave. Akhilesh Yadav has delivered.“
 
 A group of college-goers, otherwise busy in downloading an app and denying any interest in politics, got attentive when “free Wi-Fi“ was mentioned. The city has several places which need free Wi-Fi, they said. There were also voices, howev er, which discredited the chief minister, saying he had brought lopsided development.“It's more visible in the state capital, not in villages,“ aid one of the partakers in the discussion. “BJP will suffer for its low-pitch campaigning. The campaigners for UP have no connect with the state. Yahan angrezi bolne waale nahin chalenge (English-speaking campaigners will not work here). Has BJP even once given Smriti Irani the stage at its Lucknow office?“ said a voice before ordering a plate of `samosas'.
 
 Few agreed that Yogi Adityanath should be the Bharatiya Janata Party's face for the chief minister's post. “He would make the divide clear,“ said Ashutosh Kumar.
 
 Going further on how the votes will be divided given the pulls and pressures by political parties, Mishra said, “Muslim, Brahmin and Thakur votes are behind all the balancing in UP . Since Muslims will be divided between SP and BSP this time, Brahmins, Thakurs and Patels would be the balancing votes.“
 
 The flip-flop of Mulayam Singh Yadav on campaigning for SP has left even voters confused. “What would be Mulayam's move is an intriguing question,“ said Ashutosh. Lawyer Harish Gupta said, “The smartest is the Congress.The brother-sister duo will finish SP before 2019. It's like Ganga (SP) flowing into the sea (Congress).“
 
