GUWAHATI: After the Centre's renewed focus on connectivity in the northeast, Union minister of state for railways Rajen Gohain has said he will seek better employment opportunities for the youth from the region in the railways. 

 He will pursue the Centre to come up with an exclusive recruitment policy in the northeast, Gohain said on Saturday. "The issue of a separate railway recruitment policy is very much on my mind. Now that the   is over, I will take up the issue with the Centre," he said.
 
 Several organizations in the state - including the All Assam Students' Union (Aasu) and the Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuva Chatra Parishad (AJYCP) - have been demanding a separate policy for recruiting youth from the region in the third and fourth grades of the railways, which, they say, local youth have been deprived of. The issue has sparked several protests in the state, some of which also turned violent.
 
 "Work on various railways projects in the region has gained momentum under the leadership of our government. Our railway minister   has been prioritizing development of the northeast. That is why the plan outlay for the   (NFR) has seen an increase of 24% in this Union Budget," Gohain said. 
 
 The MoS said the plan of setting up a midlife coach rehabilitation factory in the state, with an estimated investment of Rs 500 crore, has been shelved. A Linke Hofmann Busch (LHB) coach workshop will, instead, be opened at   with an investment of Rs 90 crore. The plan has been sanctioned in the Union Budget.
 
 "This is being done keeping in mind passengers' safety. LHB coaches are safer," Gohain said.
 
 He also said rail service in the region is set for a significant overhaul once electrification of NFR's railway lines begins. The Budget has sanctioned electrification of 1102 km of railway lines at an estimated cost of Rs 1,432 crore. The electrification project will cover the main line section of NFR, except a portion of south Lumding, a few branch lines, and the Rangiya-Murkongselek section.
 
