AGRA: Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar   employees on Tuesday organised a Budhi-Shudhi yagya to knock sense in mind of university administration. Last week three   were suspended by university   for alleged negligence towards duty. Since Monday, there is complete shutdown at several offices of the University. This is resulting in much inconvenience to students.
 
  On orders of University Vice Chancellor Arvind Dixit, registrar KN Singh had issued suspension orders of three employees. This include office superintendent (confidential department) GK Jain, Brajesh Verma, office in-charge of medical section (examination department) and Sanjay Yadav, clerk in office of the examination controller. University administration has found them guilty for allegedly causing delay in supplying marksheet to a MBBS student.
  
  Virendra Chauhan Head of the University Teachers Association said “The orders of suspension of employees passed by the Vice Chancellor have no substantial reason. We disapprove the action of the university administration and support employees on  . Dictatorship will not be tolerated at any cost”.
  
  Head of varsity employee association Akhilesh Chaudhary said “Vice chancellor is anti-employee. Total seven employees are on suspension. Last week three innocent employees were suspended for delay in issue of a marksheet which was actually a case of malpractices done by some senior officials. Actually university administration is not able to provide students with result on time and therefore trying to shift blame on employees. Till all suspension orders on employees are revoked, university offices will not operate”.
  
  Employee leader Anand Tytler said “All three employees suspended have done no wrong. How can they verify authenticity of mark sheet without availability of original records? University administration has handed confidential records to a private firm. Through this all sort of malpractices are conducted by some of the University officials. The attempt of the University administration to terrorise employees will not be tolerated. No work will take place till suspension orders are taken back”.
  
  University Public Relation Officer GS Sharma said “On basis of primary investigation ordered by the Vice Chancellor, the three employees were found negligent towards their duty. They will remain suspended till complete probe take place”.
