PATNA: The Patna police on Saturday arrested three persons on charges of producing fake certificates while applying for the post of ‘chaukidar’ on compassionate ground.
 
  “Altogether eight candidates had applied for the post of ‘chaukidar’ on compassionate ground. Of them, four candidates produced fake certificates to secure job. The fourth accused is yet to be arrested,” Patna district magistrate   said.
  
  “The matter came to light when the officials were reviewing the certificates produced by the candidates. The four candidates were summoned for interrogation. However, only three of them turned up. The trio has been arrested on charges of producing fake certificates. An FIR has been lodged against them with Gandhi Maidan police station,” the DM added.
  
  He said during interrogation, the three arrested persons – Jagjivan Paswan, Munna Kumar and   – revealed that they had bought the certificate by paying anywhere between Rs 3,000 and Rs 5,000 to the “agents”.
  
  The certificate produced by Jagjivan Paswan, a resident of Lodipur village under Khusrupur police station, showed that he had passed Class X examination from Higher Secondary Education Board, Delhi. However, no such board exists in Delhi.
  
  Similarly, Munna Kumar, a resident of Alambigha village under Belchi police station, produced the certificate issued by another non-existing board – Central Board of Higher Secondary Education, Delhi. The certificate claimed that he had passed Class X examination from Sridev Academy, Barh.
  
  The third accused, Santosh Kumar, a resident of Gobaar village under Barh police station, had produced the certificate of Board of Higher Secondary Education, Delhi. It has been mentioned in the certificate that Santosh had passed board examination from St Sai Senior Secondary School, Sri Tola, Ara. However, during interrogation, Santosh confessed that he never lived in Ara.
  
  The details of the fourth accused, Sudhir Kumar Yadav, are still awaited. “The candidates have revealed the names of the persons from whom they had bought the certificates. Efforts are on to arrest them,” the DM added.
