NEW DELHI: Patient services were affected at   on Thursday as many resident doctors remained off duty. They were protesting against the administration’s decision to sack a senior resident of anaesthesia and reprimand others involved in the treatment of Rajbir Kaur, the nursing officer who died on February 4 following her admission to the gynaecology division for a normal delivery.

 “The inquiry committee has wrongly held resident doctors responsible for the death. It was essentially caused by lack of infrastructure,” said Dr  , general secretary of AIIMS Resident Doctors’ Association (RDA) said. He added that if the administration did not take back its order to act against the doctors, RDA would go on a strike from Friday.
 
 The resident doctors from both anaesthesia and gynaecology departments had cited “infrastructure lacunae” in the maternity operation theatre (OT) as the main reason behind the staff nurse’s death.
 
 Several faculty members from anaesthesia department have written to the director complaining that the administration has acted unilaterally in sacking the senior resident. “No surgeries were held till noon in our department. The residents from anaesthesia were protesting,” said a doctor.
 
 In the gynaecology department, about 20 surgeries take place daily but on Thursday, less than 10 cases could be performed due to the protest. “If the residents continue their protests, patient services will be severely affected. The health ministry and the administration must find a solution to the stand-off,” said a professor from the gynaecology department.
 
 A committee was constituted to investigate the alleged negligence by doctors. Kaur had suffered a cardiac arrest during the surgery on February 4, leading to her death. Sources said even the victim’s family was not happy with the institute’s action and may seek legal recourse. 
 
 Kaur was admitted on January 16 for a normal delivery. The labour was progressing well till 5am the next day when there was a sudden drop in foetal heart rate, necessitating an emergency surgery. A probe by internal committee found that an anaesthesiologist was not present during the C-section operation. Instead, the job was performed by a junior resident, who neither had the experience nor was trained enough to handle such a complicated case.
 
 The child was stillborn and Kaur went into distress due to aspiration—entry of stomach material into the respiratory tract. She suffered a cardiac arrest as well. She was revived but then remained in coma for three weeks before being declared dead on February 4.
 
 
