MUMBAI: Despite his recent success, you imagine if there was one thing   would be determined to improve as far as his bowling numbers go, it would be to try and somewhat balance the scales between his figures at home compared to those away.

 But ask Sri Lankan spin legend   if there is something in particular the Indian offie needs to accomplish such a task, and you get that famous Murali smile. "What do you mean?
 
 He is already at the next level," a bemused Muralitharan, bowling coach of the visiting  , told reporters here on Tuesday. "He doesn't need to add anything. If you are taking five-six wickets (virtually every innings) what do you have to add? He is bowling really well and you can't judge unless and until he plays in overseas conditions. So it is all about how he thinks about it and on the day, the performance, what wicket you are going to get."
 
 While Ashwin has crossed several milestones in record time en route to his 275 wickets, just 67 of those have come away from home. Muralitharan, however, felt that was down to the Indian's inexperience on previous overseas trips. "He is at top of his form, he is number one bowler in the world (actually second). So you have to appreciate him rather than criticise him that he takes wickets only in India. You have to give him a chance. Because he was young when he played in those conditions before, and you do not understand how to bowl. Now he might know better," said Muralitharan who shared the dressing room of the now suspended   with Ashwin over two seasons.
 
 The man perched atop the list of highest wicket-takers in Test cricket with 800 scalps also heaped praise on another spinner, Sunrisers' very own, Rashid Khan, whose debut   season has begun on a promising note. "We chose him because we saw him playing international cricket and bowling well against quality batsmen," Muralitharan said of the young Afghan leg spinner. "We thought he (Rashid) is something special and different than other leg spinners, because he bowled little bit quicker than the others and he has variations."
 
 While the IPL's success has triggered the rise of similar T20 leagues in Australia, the Caribbean, Bangladesh, with South Africa and England also poised to hop on the bandwagon, Muralitharan said the original model would always stand apart for one simple reason. "If Indian players are not going to play in those tournaments, it's not going to be a big hit. Everyone wants Indian players, so if they are not allowed to play in those tournaments, it won't have the same impact as IPL."
 
 
