THANE: The state government’s urban development department, last week, issued a notice to the   civic body demanding explanation for allegedly collecting Rs 13.46 lakh as fees from its English medium students, a clear violation of the   act. 

 The reported violation came to the government’s attention after the Saaman Shikshan Mulbhut Adhikar Samiti sent them a detailed complaint after they were approached by a parent who was asked to pay an annual fee of Rs 1, 850 for his child’s admission in civic school number 7 near Thane’s Court Naka area.
 
 Ghanshyan Sonar, convener of the committee, said, “The parent,  , approached us when he was charged Rs 1,850 for his son’s admission in a   school. We knew that the TMC school asking for fees from the students was a clear violation of the RTE act 2009 and the schools are meant to provide free and compulsory education. I then immediately complained to the civic body.” 
 
 Sonar added that the committee was shocked to learn that the TMC had been collecting the fees from all the 728 students studying in their seven English medium schools. “This equals to Rs 13.46 lakh collected illegally this year. They must have charged the same in the previous years as well. We wrote two letters to the urban department on June 22 and 29 respectively and they responded by issuing a notice to the civic body on July 4,” he added. 
 
 In addition to the report on the reasons for this fee collection, the urban department has also instructed the civic body to take necessary action against those responsible for violation.
 
 A senior civic official from the civic education department, said, “In 2003, the then existing education board had taken a unilateral decision to start English medium schools because of the rising demand for them. The primary teachers were appointed by the state. When the board was abolished, we assumed its responsibilities and expenditure and charged the students a a meagre fee of Rs 125 per month. However, a couple of months ago we stopped collecting this fee too. We are not aware of the particular case where the student was charged for admission in a civic school last month. This is not a big issue and we will send the urban department its response soon.”
 
