CHANDIGARH: Two firms have offered a detailed presentation to the municipal corporation on the share-bicycle project.This is part of the Smart City initiative. The two firms, All India Bicycle Federation and Nextbike and Hero Cycle, have submitted a proposal to show how the project can become a reality and stay viable.

 Based on presentations received, the civic body is now preparing a Request for Proposal (RFP) to call tender inviting companies to compete for the implementation of this project.
 
 Officials said the plan is to have around 600 bicycle stations at different locations.About 10,000 cycles will be part of the project. Security features are being planned. Chandigarh is considered ideal for the launch of this project as it already has space that could serve as bicycle tracks.
 
 Municipal commissioner Baldeo Purushartha said, “This is now at an initial stage.We have held one meeting with companies that showed us the presentation. The nearly 600 bicycle stations will be chosen such that the entire city is covered, all key work or service places, business areas, tourist areas and educational institutes that are frequented by the public. The idea is that every segment of society ­ office-going people, students, profes sionals, workers ­ can all use the service.“
 
 The project is still at a nascent stage and decisions on the fees to be charged, the systems necessary to run it and other modalities are still to be arrived at. Sources said fees will be nominal, to encourage wide use of cycles. “It could be free for initial few minutes, and a few rupees after that. There will be a proper registration of customers and they will be issued cards to avail the facility,“ an official said.
 
 The company chosen to run the project will be allowed advertising rights so that there is no great financial burden on the public. The official indicated that this is the model that has been adopted in other cities across the world where bike sharing facilities exist.
 
 What is significant is that both the companies operate in tie-ups with foreign firms. An official said, “According to information available with us, no company in the country runs such a system single-handedly.“ He said one of the companies that made the presentation already runs a bicycle sharing facility in Hyderabad.
 
 Once the RFP is ready in about a week, the corporation will call a tender to select the company .
 
 90-KM TRACKS BY DECEMBER
 
 It is likely that the system will be up and running by this December.The engineering wing of the Chandigarh administration has kicked off a work to construct 90 kilometres of new cycle tracks to cover the entire city. The city already has about 82 km of possible cycle tracks, but these are not smoothly connected. The authority has also planned for improvement of around 36 junctions, comprising roundabouts, and traffic lights points to maintain smooth flow of cyclists. Once the tracks are all laid and interconnected, the city will have around 172 km of cycle tracks, which will cover the entire city.
 
