MUMBAI: Bandra builder and film producer  , who was killed in the Istanbul nightclub terror attack early on New Year’s day, was buried at Rehmatabad, the Shia cemetery at Mazgaon, on Wednesday afternoon. 

 Several hundred mourners, including his father Akhtar Rizvi’s family and friends, bid a tearful adieu to Abis, who was 49.
 
 His father said the manager of the Istanbul five-star where Abis had checked in, had asked him not to go out for New Year celebrations. 
 
 “The manager told me that he had requested Abis to stay back in the hotel as they had lined up good celebrations to welcome the New Year but he insisted on visiting the nightclub (Reina),” Rizvi told TOI.
 
 A condolence meeting for Abis will be held at Rizvi College in Bandra at 6pm on Thursday. 
 
 Around 5.15am on Wednesday, bodies of Abis and fashion designer Khushi Shah reached Mumbai airport via Turkish Airlines 720. Rizvi said BJP MP   was at the airport to receive them on behalf of external affairs minister  . While Abis’s body was first taken to his Bandra home and later to the cemetery at Mazgaon, Shah’s brother took her body to Vadodra for the last rites.
 
 Around 4pm on Sunday, Rizvi received a call from the Indian embassy in Turkey informing him about his son’s death in the attack. “I got my visa online and immediately left for Istanbul. Sushmaji called me several times during my stay there. The embassy staff was very helpful and helped me complete the paperwork before I could claim Abis’s body and leave for India,” said Rizvi whose younger son Saquib died of cancer six years ago. Rizvi’s son-in-law joined him in Istanbul from the US while his daughter reached Mumbai.
 
 Rizvi visited the hotel where Abis was put up as well as the nightclub. “The nightclub’s infrastructure is ordinary. There is a narrow gate, which the killer used to leave the scene of crime,” he said. The authorities told him that after firing indiscriminately—his gunshots were vertical to cause maximum casualties— the gunman took off the   clothes that he was wearing, splashed blood on his shirt and hands to camouflage his identity and disappeared into the crowd. A police station is right opposite the nightclub, said Rizvi. Senior Shia cleric Maulana Hasnain Kararvi led the funeral prayer. Actors Puneet Issar, Javed Jafri, Atul Agnihotri and film sound designer Resul Pookutty were among those who attended the burial.
 
 
