NASHIK: The Mhasrool police are gearing up to seek the custody of   of  ,  , who was remanded in   on Saturday. 

 Lahade, who was in the custody of Sarkarwada police in an illegal abortion case after she surrendered on April 28, was produced before a city court, which sent her to judicial custody. 
 
 The gynaecologist has been booked for conducting an illegal abortion at the Nashik civil hospital on March 22. 
 
 Senior police officials of the Mhasrool police station said the doctor’s police custody is needed because a case was registered with them against her under various sections of the Indian Penal Code as well as for violation of the Maharashtra Termination of Pregnancy Act and Bombay Nursing Homes Registrations Act on April 8. 
 
 The officials said the process of seeking her custody is likely to be initiated on Monday. 
 
 After the case of illegal medical termination of pregnancy at the civil hospital came to the fore, the civic health department found that Lahade was also running a private hospital in the Mhasrool area of the city. 
 
 Vijay Dekate, medical officer of Nashik Municipal Corporation, lodged a complaint with Mhasrool police against the gynaecologist for running the hospital for private practice with forged documents. 
 
 A case of illegal abortion was registered with the Sarkarwada police on a complaint by the civic health department on April 16. 
 
 Lahade surrendered at the Sarkarwada police on April 18 after her bail application was rejected. Following her arrest, she was sent to five days’ police custody, which was extended twice by two days.
 
 Lahade is a class I medical officer of the state government and has been working at the Nashik civil hospital since October 2015. Before that she was medical superintendent of Wani rural hospital in Nashik district.
 
 The state health department had carried out two separate investigations looking into allegations that Lahade had terminated the pregnancy of an expectant mother carrying a 24-week foetus. One of the teams had five members including two gynaecologists from other districts, a civil surgeon from Dhule, a radiologist and the deputy director of health. 
 
