PATNA: The   order on Monday to reinstate criminal conspiracy charges in the multi-crore fodder scam cases has caused bigger setback to former Bihar CM   than to   chief Lalu Prasad. 

 Mishra was almost a freeman as four cases in the fodder scam against him were quashed by the Jharkhand high court in 2014. But, he would now have to face separate trial in all the four cases. The apex court set aside the Jharkhand high court order quashing criminal proceedings against Lalu, Mishra and former Jharkhand chief secretary  .
 
 The four cases reinstated against Mishra include RC 64 (A)/96 (related to withdrawal of Rs90 lakh from Deoghar treasury), RC 68 (A)/96 (withdrawal of Rs3333.61 crore from Chaibasa treasury), RC 47 (A)/96 (withdrawal of Rs139.39 crore from Doranda treasury, Ranchi) and RC 38 (A)/96 (withdrawal of Rs3.31 crore from  ). 
 
 Mishra, a three-term CM, was convicted by a trial court in 2013 in RC 20 (A)/96 along with Lalu. Both of them are on bail in the case. The appeal petition filed against his conviction is pending in the Jharkhand high court. 
 
 “It is unfortunate for us that despite being acquitted in the cases, fodder scam has come back to haunt my father at such an old age. We have started consulting our lawyers as the entire legal process will have to be taken up afresh,” Jagannath’s son and former Bihar minister Nitish Mishra told TOI. 
 
 He said following the conviction in RC 20(A), his father had moved Jharkhand HC challenging the validity of the four pending cases on the ground that all cases against him were of similar nature and once convicted in one of them, he could not be tried in other four as per constitutional provisions. The high court had, in July 2014, had quashed all the four pending fodder scam cases against Mishra. 
 
 “While Lalu was already facing trial in four fodder scam cases, we will have to take the process afresh. Our lawyers may require to cross-examine all the 385 witnesses in the four cases. Besides, my father may also be required to go to the courts for personal appearances, which is quite traumatic considering the fact that he is 81 now,” Nitish said.
 
