BHOPAL: Eighteen days have passed since the Madhya Pradesh   asked for a report on the   in   but the Bhopal district administration and police have not bothered to reply.

 TOI had reported on January 30 how high caste villagers in this village, barely 70 km from Bhopal, have barred Dalits from entering barber shops, hotels and tea stalls and even from using the road. MPHRC had issued a notice to the administration the very next day.
 
 MPHRC additional director L R Sisodia said, “We sent a notice to the district administration, asking them to reply in 15 days but they have not responded yet. We asked them why they haven’t taken action against the culprits under SC/ST Act when the complaint the ostracised community had lodged a complain. We are going to send them a reminder.”
 
 Police claim the dispute has been “resolved”. DIG Raman Sikarwar told TOI: “I am not aware of the notice. But yes, we resolved the issue long back and also arranged a ‘sahbhoj’ (community feast) of all the communities in village. But if we have received a notice, our officials may be looking into the matter and will submit the report.”
 
 Berasia SDOP Beena Singh said that she has sent the report after conducting investigation. “We visited the village and conducted our investigation. The issue of not allowing (dalits) to walk through a path to reach the farms is more of a person disassociation between a few people. It’s a private road and it’s up to the owner to allow someone to use it. Barbers have also said that everything is normal and they are not stopping anybody from availing of their services,” she said. MPHRC officials, however, say they have not received Singh’s all-clear report.
 
 Asked about the status of the report demanded by MPHRC, Berasia subdivisional magistrate Rajeev Nandan Shrivastava said, “I cannot comment on the issue.”
 
 A person of Ahirwar community in the village told TOI that nothing has changed on the ground and they are still facing a social boycott. “Harvest season is coming but we are still not allowed to pass through the road to our farm. It will become really difficult for us if it’s going to continue like this,” he said, too scared to be named. Another villager, asking not to disclose his identity, said, “It’s not an issue of personal enmity. It’s not about 10-12 people who may not have cordial relations with other villagers. It’s about the whole community. If police claim that some Ahirwars who don’t live in the village are trying to create unrest, I suggest that they should come and live with us to understand the reality,”
 
 TOI had reported how more than 325 members of a reserved community in Naisamand village are being ostracised for a long time. In 2015, the victims tried to file a complaint at Nazeerabad police station, but were turned down. They had to dial the CM helpline to have voice heard in December 2015. Even after that, it took almost a year to get a response.
 
