DEHRADUN: Disillusioned at a road not having been built in their village since the past 14 years, the villagers of Sayalna village in Barkot tehsil of Uttarkashi district have decided to boycott the upcoming  . This would be the second time that this village of around 600 voters would be doing so. They had adopted a similar resolution during the 2014 general elections too. Villagers claimed that in 2002, a survey for the six-kilometer long road was done by officials but till date no work has been done on the project despite the fact that urban development minister Pritam Singh Panwar belongs to Yamnotri constituency nearby.

 This week, the agitated villagers submitted a memorandum to the district magistrate regarding their wish to   because of the hardships being faced by them. “I know of seven new- born babies who died because they could not reach the nearest available medical facility in time due to non-availability of a road. In my family alone, there have been three deaths like these. Why should we face this fate when other people staying in higher altitude areas have better   than us ? That is why, we have decided we will not vote until we get a motor road,” said Prem Payala, a villager from Sanyala who is spearheading the villagers’ agitation.
 
 According to villagers, the file pertaining to the road construction is stuck in red tape and official apathy which is leading to the inordinate delays. “We have found that the file is currently with the DFO of our area and is awaiting forest clearance. Is saving a human life more important than a couple of trees? Also, why is it taking fourteen years for a file to get cleared?” said Kasturi Chauhan, gram pradhan of Saynala.
 
 The six-kilometre stretch when built, will connect the village with the Yamnotri highway. But currently, in order to reach the highway, villagers have to walk a treacherous path which takes a few hours. Some of the villagers alleged that when they decided to boycott elections in 2014, the then district magistrate had assured them that the road will be built on priority and requested them to cast their votes, but nothing happened. “We would rather rest in our homes than take the trouble of going to the polling booth. Why should we bother when no politician is interested in getting our work done?” said Rajender Singh, another villager. 
 
