NEW DELHI: In what could make the Haryana government to act against  , a committee set up by the chief minister has reported diversion of home buyers’ funds by the realty major and collective failure of its management and board, driving it into possible  .
 
  ET has accessed a copy of the confidential report submitted to the state government. The panel, with the National Institute of Financial Management (NIFM) on board, says the company is staring at a “potential business failure” and recovery proceedings.
  
  CM Manohar Lal set up the panel in April last following consumer complaints about delays in the company delivering homes in Gurgaon. Senior officials of the state government said they were deliberating on the report.
  
  “All key management personnel (and) board of directors including independent directors have failed to discharge their duties and obligations under the statutes and decrees,” its report says. It is proven that Unitech diverted funds collected for residential projects to commercial projects or other business requirements, it alleges.
  
  Unitech spokesperson   said the company had no knowledge of the report’s findings and claimed that it was ramping up construction activity and working closely with customers to ensure delivery.
  
  “We have not received any report or its finding from NIFM to respond to your queries. The Haryana government has been supportive in terms of processes and clearances for project deliveries,” Kapoor said in an emailed response to ET’s questions.
  
  “In some projects, Unitech has opened joint development accounts with customer as one of the signatory and joint monitoring committee to have periodic review on progress and expenses. This has helped us to regain customer trust and speed up construction and delivery activities in these set of projects,” she said, adding that the company has ramped up construction activities on some more projects by raising funds from internal accruals and financial institutions.
  
  “The amount required towards project development and completion is lesser than the customer receivables. Also, the balance unsold inventory with substantial value would be created on the completion.
  
  The amount received from the customers of these projects is lower than the spends done by company in development, land costs, government charges and finance costs,” it said, referring to allegations of fund diversion.
  
  Unitech has been under the Haryana government’s scrutiny for failing to deliver on projects across Gurgaon. Taking note of the various complaints against the company, the CM had on April 11 directed that a committee be set up under the Gurgaon Deputy Commissioner and NIFM be roped in to give an “unbiased view on the matter”.
  
  Unitech is also facing a number of court cases filed by home buyers. Last month, the   lifted a stay imposed by the Delhi HC on proceedings against the company and its directors before different courts.
  
  The report calls Unitech’s business model “ambitiously conceived, inefficiently executed and operated on customer funds”. On the company’s financial health, the committee says its   reveals a negative position of `11,076 crores and a very poor Altman Z score of 0.85, indicating an “impending business failure”.
