BUNDI: Chief minister Vasundhara   was on Thursday night in   left surprised on finding the   do not know the names of any five of the state   including the flagships ones.

 Stressing that the government schemes and benefits associated with them are the vehicles to win any election. Raje surprisingly asked how the party would win the next election if the party officials and representatives on the ground level are unaware of the flagship and welfare schemes of the government.
 
 CM Raje on late on Thursday night held a long meeting with officials, Mandal and Morcha heads that continued for over five hours and concluded at 12.25 am at night. Besides the seven Morcha Zila presidents heads, 21 Mandals presidents, 24 district officials of the party, district party president Mahipat Singh Hada, Kota – Bundi MP Om Birla, local MLA Ashok Dogera, Bundi district minister in charge Srichand Kriplani, Babu Lal Verma and former party president were present in the meeting.
 
 CM Raje, while taking feedback on the developmental work and implementation of government’s schemes, asked the Mandal presidents to count any five of the state government’s welfare schemes including the flagships ones, the BJP Mandal presidents failed to count the five names of government’s schemes.
 
 ‘The Mandal presidents could not count the names of any five of the state government’s schemes’, told an insider party official in the meeting on condition of anonymity. The CM expressed surprise on the unawareness of government schemes questioning the how the party would win the next elections in such conditions, the party official added.
 
 The district party officials expressed dissatisfaction over slow and inactive activities over Swatch Bharat Abhyan in the district and claimed to the CM Bundi city has only in papers secured name at 171 position in the list of 434 cities surveyed by union ministry of urban development and said ground reality is totally different.
 
 CM Raje on receiving feedback on works being carried out by Rajasthan Urban Infrastructure Development Project (RUIDP) in the urban areas of the district, expressed displeasure saying RUIDP works have spoiled and destroyed the cities in the state and assured to find out the other options for the working agency of the project.
 
 District party officials and representatives demanded Raje to purchase Urad Dal (black gram lentils) to be purchased on Minimum government supported price. Raje assured the purchase the same on MSP. On closed sugar mill at Keshoraipatan area of the district, CM Raje cleared the district party officials that the mill now cannot be restarted but an agriculture based industry can be set up in place of closed sugar mill. The agriculture based industry would also generate employment in the region, she said.
 
 However groupism and fraction in the party in the meeting did not surface despite the district BJP’s unapparent split into fractions, one led by local MLA, other by district party president and state minister from the district.
 
 
