AHMEDABAD: Gujarat high court pulled up authorities for unnecessarily sticking to rules and  , and depriving students of  .

 The high court has directed   to appoint 14 persons having PTC certificates from Socially and Educationally Backward Class (SEBC) in Marathi medium as vidyasahayaks in six weeks. These candidates were fighting a legal battle for last seven years after they were denied jobs by not de-reserving quota for the Scheduled Tribe candidates.
 
 In this case, the board issued an advertisements in 2009 for recruitment of PTC of ST category and SEBC category candidates in Marathi medium for the posts of vidyasahyak in primary schools. There was no ST category candidate available. The state government did not de-reserve the quota and kept the posts vacant.
 
 As the hearing took place before the HC, the petitioner candidates highlighted that there are 124 vacant posts for Marathi medium primary teachers, but the government manages with 51 pravasi sikshaks, who are not even qualified to teach in primary schools. Though there are vacancies and candidates from ST category are not available, the government does not de-reserve the posts for the benefit of the students and candidates.
 
 The petitioners also highlighted a precedent, when the board did not appoint Urdu medium teachers only because the posts were reserved for ST candidates. The high court had then ordered to de-reserve the posts and appoint teachers who could teach in Urdu medium.
 
 While ordering to de-reserve posts and appoint Marathi medium teachers, Justice   said, “It is very unfortunate to note that the authorities are playing with the career of the students, who are pursuing their studies in the Marathi and Urdu Medium.”
 
 “I am at pains to note that despite availability of the teachers with the expertise in Marathi and Urdu Medium, the students are being taught or imparted education by teachers, who have no expertise in Marathi or Urdu Medium. Despite the availability of the teachers in Marathi as well as the Urdu Medium, if such is the position, then the court should intervene and set right the position,” Justice Pardiwala said.
 
