PATNA: Several functions were organised in the city to mark the International Women’s Day on Wednesday. 

 The Danapur division of East Central Railway (ECR) observed the day by giving its women employees full control to head the key posts and functioning of railways at Patna Junction on the occasion. Women employees were given charge of the booking offices and announcing system at the junction. Women loco pilots were also given charge of a couple of passenger trains.
 
 Women sub inspectors and constables of RPF and RPSF supervised the law and order situation on the platforms and concourses. Similarly, women ticket checking staff performed their duty, including ticket checking at Patna Junction.
 
 A debate competition on ‘Has scientific outlook of women developed in 21st century’ was organised at Srikrishna Science Centre to mark the day. Altogether 15 students from local schools participated in the competition. Prizes and certificates were distributed among the winners. Pradipta Mukhopadhyay, project coordinator at Srikrishna Science Centre delivered a lecture on ‘Let’s force the equality’. 
 
 Paras HMRI Hospital celebrated the day by honouring seven women of substance from Bihar with ‘Be Bold for Change’ award. Founder and principal of International School Farhat Hasan, one of the recipients of the award, appreciated the hospital-sponsored month-long health camp for women which culminated on March 8. 
 
 All India Mahila Sanskriti Sangathan held a march at Gandhi maidan. Women were seen carrying placards with messages for gender equality. 
 
 Nehru Yuva Centre and Prem Youth Foundation held a seminar at Women’s Training College where the importance of women being independent and self-reliant was discussed.
 
 A helpline number (7061303234) for victims of eve teasing was launched at Srikrishnapuri Park by Youth for Swaraj, an organization working to prevent eve teasing. 
 
 Mahavir Cancer Sansthan’s department of oncology proposed a 50% discount on pap smear and mammography for women. The hospital also made a recommendation to the state government to provide free vaccination for cervix cancer. 
 
 Sir Ganesh Dutt Vichar Manch organised a seminar on “Partnership of women in the development of the nation and the society”.
 
 
