KOCHI: A 35-member team from Haryana including 10 members of assurance committee of the state assembly is  . 

 Besides holding talks with their counterparts here, the assurance committee members along with others in the team would visit different locations on its seven-day tour.
 
 "We are the state with least number of pending assurances. The committee closely monitors the progress of projects announced in the house and ensure timely implementation of such projects,"  , chairman of assurance committee,  , said.
 
 "Earlier, we had visited  , Maharashtra and Telangana and held discussions with our counterparts there. We had adopted many things that we picked up during such visits. Now, we are in God's Own Country with our mission," Hussain said.
 
 "In Uttar Pradesh, there is subcommittee for assurance committee. This would help expedite the project implementation. So, we would be exploring the possibilities of constituting subcommittee in our state also," said Hussain who is an MLA from the opposition Indian National Lok Dal (INLD).
 
 According to Mukesh Gupta, undersecretary, Haryana Legislative Assembly, the pendency of assurances or projects announced in the floor of the house is just a bit above 200. "If there is any pending projects or assurances, the committee and chairman will force the officials in charge of the project to speed up the work," Gupta said.
 
 Besides the chairman, the touring team of MLAs consists of Balwant Singh, Nassem Ahmed, Ghanshyam Das, Makhan Lal, Balkaur Singh, Anoop Dhanak, Ved Narang, Ranbir Gangwa and Ram Chand Kamboj. They would be heading for hill station of Munnar on Thursday morning. On Friday and Saturday, they would spend in Alappuzha enjoying the beauty of backwaters. Then, the team will leave for Thiruvananthapuram. " In Thiruvananthapuram, we will be holding discussions with assurance committee members of   on March 26," Hussain said. Next day, the team will go to Kanyakumari and from there to Madurai on March 28. They would return home on March 29.
 
