CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday allowed to delete the name of R K Nandal, secretary of Haryana   and returning officer for Rajya Sabha (RS) polls, as party in the petition filed by senior advocate  . The advocate had challenged the elections to the upper house held in June 2016 after losing the contest to media baron Subash Chandra.

 Justice P B Bajanthri passed these orders while allowing an application filed by Nandal. He had pleaded that he couldn’t be named in the petition challenging the election because he had performed his duty as election officer along with other staff for the conduct of voting process. He sought directions to remove his name from the list of respondents in Anand’s petition in which Chandra election as RS member has been challenged.
 
 While Anand had sought directions to implead assembly secretary as party, Chandra had supported Nandal’s plea. According to Anand, entire election process for RS was a clandestine exercise which was meticulously planned and executed so that Chandra and Birender Singh could win. Strongly advocating to implead Nandal as respondent in the case, he had submitted that the   had also conducted an inquiry into the conduct of Nandal and an FIR had already been registered in the issue.
 
 Chandra, on the other hand, had submitted that there were no irregularities in his election to RS and all the MLAs cast their votes in their “own conscious political wisdom”. He also contended that Nandal could not be impleaded because election staff cannot be made respondents in such election petitions.
 
 Election for two seats of RS from Haryana was held on June 11, 2016. Anand, who was backed by INLD and the Congress, alleged that he had learnt through reliable sources that Chandra had met the returning officer at the Vidhan Sabha in the presence of several people a day before voting. He alleged that Chandra was shown the pen – a violet sketch pen – that was to be used for marking votes on ballot papers the following day. Anand stated that the official pen was removed from the polling area in a dishonest manner in an effort to sabotage the election. Anand’s main plea against Chandra is still pending.
 
 
