PUDUCHERRY: Old-timers remember the days when they could stroll down to the beach and dip their toes in the water. Something that's difficult to believe if you visit Puducherry now and see its rocky coastline. But, if the efforts of the   (NIOT) pay off,   alike may soon be able to enjoy walking on a natural, sandy beach.

 On March 3,   formally launched the beach restoration project in the presence of public works minister   and other dignitaries. NIOT's project will manage coastal erosion and restore the beach at an estimated Rs 25 crore.The game plan was charted out after the union ministry of earth sciences and NIOT undertook detailed studies based on 30-year wave data, water levels and nearshore currents.
 
 Usually , sand moves towards north along the coast nine months a year and towards south three months a year. Probir Banerjee, spokesperson, Pondy Citizen Action Network, says that the ecological damage began in the mid-1980s when the commercial harbour was constructed at the Ariyankuppam river mouth, just 1.5km south of the town. The harbour blocks natural movement of sand along the coastline. As a result, five lakh cubic metre of sand gets accumulated on its southern side while sand on northern side continues to drift towards north, leading to erosion. “This erosion advances north at the pace of 350m year and rapidly approaches Mammallapuram coast,“ he says.
 
 As part of the NIOT project, a 4m high equilateral triangular structure will be constructed behind the Kargil Memorial on the Beach Road. Each side of the structure will measure 125m. While the base will be along the coast, the tip will project into the sea, slowing down the movement of sand along the coastline towards the northern side. Over a period, as sand gets accumulated, a beach will form.
 
 The Puducherry port department will also dredge sand accumulated on the southern side of the harbour and deposit it behind the Gandhi Statue on the Beach Road. Initially, about three lakh cubic metre of sand has to be dredged and deposited. Later, about one lakh cubic metre of sand will be deposited every year. “The sandy beach within the town limits was completely lost two decades after the construction of the harbour.The sea wall (using groynes or low walls built into the sea to check erosion) compounded the problem. This project will not only protect but also restore the beach. The advantage of this project is that it will allow sand to bypass, unlike the groynes.“
 
