Cuttack: It is a pretty sight when players give more than hundred per cent on the field for their team. That was exactly what transpired at Barabati Stadium here on Friday as a 10-man   not only held their own but scored in added time to beat   3-2 in their last   group match. It is a pity that Lajong’s fight went in vain as they were knocked out of the tournament. In fact, both teams — with three points apiece but Lajong with superior goal difference and head-to-head record — had to bow out after Bengaluru FC’s 1-1 draw against   in the late kickoff.

 If the first half of Lajong-Shivajians tie was mostly benign, with the players trying to create something in the sweltering heat, the second half made up for the lack of excitement. Shivajians were, however, unlucky to not have a goal to their name at the change of ends when striker Lallianzuala Chhangte made a superb run into the box, beating two defenders, and shot past goalkeeper Vishal Kaith in the 42nd minute. But the ball first hit the near post then the far post before making a safe return into the hands of the goalie. That was the closest anyone came to scoring before the commencement of the second half. But with the temperature — 37 degrees but with a real feel of 47 — gradually dipping, players began to find their agility and chances began to be created at both ends.
 
 The first goal, however, was more like a gift to Lajong as a mix-up inside the Shivajians box led Lajong’s sole striker on the day in absence of the injured Aser Dipanda Dicka, Alen Deory, to glide the ball into the goal. 
 
 Juan Quero Barraso, the man who almost singlehandedly demolished   just a day back, kept making his runs through the middle and was aided by Chhangte and Jerry Mawihmingthanga in creating some good opportunities for the Dave Rogers-coached side. But they lacked the finish. Lajong defenders and Kaith kept throttling their moves.
 
 The equalizer for Shivajians eventually arrived in the 64th minute. Barraso sent a free-kick into the box and the newly-substituted Holicharan Narzary dribbled past two defenders to shoot the ball into the top corner of the Lajong goal.
 
 It was, however, not long before Lajong regained their lead and it came through a goof-up by Shivajians skipper Subrata Paul in the 68th minute. Deory sent a cross into the box from the right that the goalkeeper could not hold on to and Redeem Tlang did not miss the chance to rush in and shoot the rebound for their second goal. 
 
 But Shivajians, who knew a victory could earn them semis spot, kept attacking. In the 74th minute, Kaith — who often plays the role of a sweeper for his team — found Chhangte charge towards the box and brought the striker down with a tackle outside the box. It was a copybook tackle for a red card and referee Pranjal Mukherjee sent the goalie off. 
 
 With ten men on the field, Lajong had to replace strike-spearhead Deory for substitute ’keeper Phurba Tempa Lachenpa. It was then that Narzary scored a splendid goal from 30 yards out in the 86th minute. As his shot went blazing into the net, Shivajians coach and staff were ecstatic at the touchline. What they didn’t know was that Lajong had another ace up their sleeve. 
 
 In the 93rd minute, Samu el Lalmuanpuia, who had been impressive throughout the game, found himself in a one-on-one with the goalkeeper with no defender in sight and shot the ball home for the victory.
 
 
