As the fest season in DU approaches, one of the most discussed topics on campus is the celeb performers being invited to perform in various colleges. While co-ed colleges are in the process of deciding who to call, most girls colleges in DU are clear about who not to call for the fest season. Student union members in most girls colleges have taken a conscious call to not invite artists whose songs’ lyrics are derogatory towards women. Artists who ‘objectify women and make sexist comments in their songs’ are not being invited, they say. "What is the point in protesting for women’s rights if we are entertained by songs which say I swear chhoti dress mein bomb lagdi mennu?" asks Samridhi Bajaj, general secretary of the students’ union, Miranda House.

 
 
 The student union members of girls colleges say that they do not even consider these artists for their fests. "We are trying to propagate the ideas of feminism and equality, while these artists are using their art form to demean women. The lyrics of songs like Brown Rang and Saturday Saturday are offensive, abusive and completely opposite of what we are taught in college. In these songs, women are mere objects obsessed with makeup, shopping and partying, so we can’t think of calling these artists for obvious reasons," says Smitha Sabu, treasurer of students’ union of Lady Shri Ram College for Women.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Raavi Jotwani, vice president of the Jesus and Mary College students union, adds, "Lyrics like Manne suna hai tu twenty plus ho gayi and Yahaan sari dance dikhari hai, gori kamar hilari hai (Party by  ), are sexist and offensive and we are not trying to promote that culture. We prefer a female artist who believes in ideas like ours and who can understand us better than someone who tears us apart in our own college on our fest. We are taught that women should be confident, competent and compassionate and the lyrics of these artists are completely opposite so they are a big ‘No’ for our fests.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The songs might be big hits but that is not even a factor being considered. Student union members usually invite artists depending on their popularity, but this consideration takes a back seat with artists who have offensive lyrics. "How can you call a woman ‘bomb’? We do not even consider artists like  ,   and other Punjabi singers for our fests. This is not a joke, you cannot laugh about it. We are always cautious during our selection of artists," says Garima Tandon, president of the students’ union of Gargi college.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Komal Priya Singh, president of Kamala Nehru College (KNC) adds, "We wanted to call Benny Dayal last year for our fest. Our teachers asked us about his songs, and when we told them that he has sung Badtameez Dil. They asked, ‘What is this song? Do you want to give this message to all those who come for your fest?’ When our teachers do not approve of 'Badtameez Dil', songs objectifying women are out of the question. Plus, our fest has a social message attached to it, so how can we talk about women empowerment when we are promoting women objectification through these acts?"
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  Indeep Bakshi (left) and Badshah are the artists behind the song 'Saturday Saturday'
 
 
 
 
 
