COIMBATORE: A Coimbatore-based   organisation has announced that it will conduct traditional sports involving bulls like rekla,   and manju virattu whether the Supreme Court and the Centre will allow it or not. 

 The group said banning such “traditional” sports and in the process destroying the tradition itself was detrimental to Tamil culture. They said it was also making native breeds of bulls slowly die out.
 
 Rastriya Hindu Parishad members walked into the district collectorate with roosters and a bull stating that “many sporting games that can be traced back to centuries-old traditions was being destroyed by animal activists.”
 
 “We have decided that we will be conducting games like jallikattu, manju virattu, seval sandai (cockfights) and rekla from January 15, whatever the courts or administration does,” said the organisation’s founder, G R Jaleendran.
 
 The organisation announced the probable locations for the events. “While we want to conduct the cockfights along with silambam and maan kombu on Big Bazaar Road on January 15, bull taming events like jallikattu and manju virattu will be conducted on the outskirts like Thondamuthur,” said Jaleendran.
 
 It was only in mid-November that the Supreme Court once again rejected the state government’s plea to review the ban on jallikattu. “The court is banning the sports based on a few animal organisations’ pleas. One of those organisations are not even from Tamil Nadu,” said Jaleendran. 
 
 “We admit that there could have been people who fed their animals with alcohol, drugs, and hormones. They might have even rubbed chilli powder in the eyes of the animals. You can ban all those cruelties, give us a set of guidelines and rules for conducting the sport and even send monitoring officers. But completely banning the sport is against all reason,” he said.
 
 He said, “Jallikattu, manju virattu, seval sandai (cockfights) and rekla are one of the traditional ways that the harvest season on Pongal is celebrated,” said the organisation’s founder, G R Jaleendran. 
 
 “By banning them, we are killing that massive portion of a centuries old tradition,” he said. “We are also killing native breeds like Kangeyam and Alanganallur bulls, forcing us to depend on only Jersey cows for milk which is not even as healthy,” he added.
 
 
