NEW DELHI: BJP’s articulation of the   demand hogged attention at its manifesto release in Lucknow but party strategists are, in fact, focusing on its “secular” promises of loan waiver, improvement in law and order and end of bias in favour of a specific community and a caste to stitch together a larger social coalition. 

 The manifesto, launched on Saturday by BJP chief Amit Shah, promised to write off agricultural loans of small and marginal farmers as well as to provide interest-free loans to them: a commitment that party strategists view as a “match winner”. It complements the party’s proposal to woo non-Yadav OBCs and most backward castes who have been represented well on the slate. The party also promised to ensure purchase of paddy at MSP, an attempt to address a complaint of farmers against the state government. 
 
 BJP promised that from now on, cane growers will get full payment within 14 days of their produce being purchased, and that a mechanism to clear the arrears within 120 days will be put in place. The double promise, an ambitious one given the long history of litigation and disputes among mill owners, government and farmers over fixing the right price, should resonate well with cane growers, especially in western UP, which will be crucial for the party’s bid to wrest back power after 14 years. 
 
 Jats, who moved to the saffron column in 2014 after the Muzaffarnagar riots, account for a disproportionate number of cane producers. The focus on western UP is evident also in the party’s plan to post officers of the rank of deputy collector in each of the districts in the region to tackle communal violence. The promise comes against the backdrop of BJP’s allegation that the outgoing government’s handling of communal violence in the region was biased in favour of the minority community. 
 
 The party has also pledged to ensure that people of all communities and castes can lodge FIRs: an echo of the perception that under SP rule, police were under instruction not to take action against specific social groups. Other highlights of the manifesto — promise to ensure fair recruitment so that no community or caste is favoured, and the promise to set up a task force to address the problem of forcible capture of properties — are designed to tap into allegations of SP government’s Muslim-Yadav tilt. 
 
 Party sources said electioneering will see BJP focusing more on these “secular” themes rather than on temple. They said Amit Shah’s comment that Ram temple and development can go hand in hand was in response to a suggestion that this amounted to a contradiction. “There is no contradiction between the Ram mandir issue and vikas (development),” said the source. 
 
 The party is not diluting its position on Ram temple demand nor over-emphasising it but is clear that a resolution to the dispute can only come about through a court order or dialogue between parties involved in the claims. “It can only be done under the constitutional provisions, either through dialogue or court order. We are committed to building a Ram temple, but within constitutional provisions,” Shah said in a TV interview, in what party sources termed as a “default response to a reflexive question”. 
 
 In BJP’s assessment, the party is looking at a strong social mobilisation in its favour with upper castes including agricultural communities like Jats along with a big section of backwards to see it through. The party manifesto is seen to address a broad spectrum of aspirations with close attention to youth and those in the employment seeking age groups. Fee concessions and farm sops are an important part of BJP’s pitch.
 
