PUNE: The Faraskhana police have launched a hunt for the owner of a   and his nephew near   in connection with the arrest of two men in an alleged cow slaughter case registered on Wednesday. 

 An activist of a local “gau seva” organization, with the help of police, had intercepted an autorickshaw near Juna Bazaar on the suspicion of   being transported. The vehicle was taken to the police station. 
 
 Autorickshaw driver Abrar Khan (42) from Ganj Peth and carrier Nadim Qureshi (32) from Kasewadi were   for allegedly possessing beef, which is an offence under the Maharashtra Animal Preservation (Amendment) Act, 2015. They are in police custody remand till Friday. 
 
 The duo’s questioning led police to the meat shop, but its owner,  , and nephew Abu (full name not known) are on the run. 
 
 Faraskhana police officials confirmed seizure of beef, but refused to specify whether it was the meat of cow, bullock or buffalo. They were awaiting an expert report from the Forensic Science Investigation lab. 
 
 Police said they had received reliable information from the “gau rakshak” (cow vigilant) that an autorickshaw transporting beef would be passing via Juna Bazaar road around 8.20am on Wednesday. 
 
 A suspected autorickshaw was spotted, but it sped away after it was signalled to stop. Police intercepted the vehicle at Amar Shaikh Chowk around 9.20am and recovered the meat.
 
 “Qureshi confessed of purchasing it from a meat shop for transporting it to his outlet in Kondhwa. A search conducted at the shop led to the recovery of 65 kg beef. A veterniary doctor prima facie confirmed that the   good was beef, following which ‘gau rakshak’ Shivshankar Swamy, a student from Shivajinagar, lodged an FIR against the suspects,” said Faraskhana police sub inspector Rajaram Chouhan. “We have for the first time obtained police custody remand of the suspects,” Chouhan added. 
 
 In another case, the Yerawada police arrested two of the four men and seized bullock meat transported in a pick-up van around 1.05 pm on Wednesday. 
 
 Acting on a tip-off, the police arrested the driver of the vehicle, Mohammad Qureshi (37) from Kurla, and accomplice Mohammad Khan (25) of Uttar Pradesh. 
 
