We were driving our teen to her examination centre for her first Board exam when a car menacingly overtook ours from the left, only to hit a traffic light a few metres ahead.   Noticing a student nervously poring over her books on the rear seat, we understood the urgency of the car as it meandered through the traffic to zoom ahead. We had hardly proceeded a few yards when the same car screeched to a halt and the nervous student jumped out throwing up uncontrollably on the roadside. The people accompanying her looked on helplessly.    The examination stress had clearly taken a toll on the poor girl’s health and state of mind. Most of us suffer from stress during exams, which is quite natural. Mild stress in fact goads us to work harder, think faster and more effectively and can help us improve our performance. But when the anxiety level becomes overwhelming, causing insomnia, loss of appetite or depression, it tends to threaten our peace as well as performance.    “I think she stayed up studying the whole night,” observed the examinee in our car. “Our principal had categorically warned us against staying up the night before an exam,” she went on until I gently changed the topic to distract her from the episode.    But her principal was right, pulling an ‘all-nighter’ before an exam clearly spells disaster. I remember having done it once during our university exams and ended up having a complete black out when the question paper was distributed.    As parents of examinees, it is imperative to insist on a good night’s sleep of at least seven hours before an exam. For, proper rest of the mind and body helps rejuvenate the weary, over-worked brain and enables better recollection of the revised matter.    Keeping the body refuelled with healthy nutritious food during the exams is another important factor to bear in mind during preparations. It is critical to ensure the children eat before and during exam time as this can keep anxieties and tensions at bay, besides aiding heir memory.    Exams require burning the midnight oil alright, but it’s certainly not advisable to let the children stay cooped in their study rooms all the time. Practising relaxation techniques like breathing exercises or yoga, taking adequate breaks for walks to get fresh air, listening to music or laughing with friends and family in order to de-stress are equally essential.    While the course of one’s career and life to a great extent do depends on the Boards or competitive exams, excessive harping on the fact by parents during the exams can only become counter-productive. Desist from talking about results, like “what if you don’t get a certain percentage…” or discussing the high cutoffs required for college admissions, once the exams have begun.    What some of us don’t realise is, too much pressure to perform can cause the children to flip over the edge. And certainly, nothing is more vital than the health and well being of our children.    [prakritiprasad@gmail.com]            