NAGPUR: In a major respite to hundreds of polytechnic students who opted for general mathematics in SSC, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court has allowed a second-year student of  , Nagpur, to continue with the course, appear in the exam and if successful, be awarded the diploma certificate.

 A division bench comprising Justices Bhushan Gavai and Atul Chandurkar held that the criteria for admission was shown as HSC Vocational (MCVC), which the petitioner possessed.
 
  and   appeared for the petitioner.
 
 Suraj Anake (19), a second year student of Dharampeth Polytechnic, was granted admission in electronic and telecommunication branch in 2016. The admission was granted on the basis of HSC Vocational (MCVC) directly in the second year. After two sessional exams in February 2017, the   and the college told him that he was not eligible for the course and will not be permitted to appear in any exam.
 
 The directorate held that he had opted for General Mathematics (Code 74) instead of Mathematics (Code 71). Code 71 has algebra and geometry while code 74 is an easier version for weak students. The student moved the court stating that the admission was granted on the basis of MCVC vocational and not SSC.
 
 The Maharashtra government, the director, Directorate of Technical Education, Joint Director, Technical Education, Regional Office, Government Polytechnic College, Sadar, and the Principal, Tarkunde Dharampeth High School & Junior College, Dharampeth, were made respondents.
 
 After hearing both the sides, the bench held that the Directorate of Technical Education in its prospectus and other documents has not disclosed the above fact and the criteria for admission was shown as HSC Vocational (MCVC).
 
 “Thus, the HC not only admitted the petition for final hearing but as an interim relief, permitted the student to appear in the examination and further directed that if successful, his results be declared and upon completion of the course, he be issued the diploma also,” Khare said. 
 
 She added, “The court saved the student’s career. After the timely order, Anake was able to appear in the third sessional exam which started from Tuesday though he missed one paper. The interim relief will benefit many students who were rendered ineligible on the basis of Code 71.”
 
 
