PUNE:  , temples,   and statues have descended on the streets of the city as candidates have brought them up while campaigning. 

 The last phase of the campaign has rolled out and issues, however unconnected to the civic election, are being raked up and brought to voters. 
 
 Civic elections are about civic governance and infrastructure. Though all parties have mentioned civic issues in their manifestos, campaigning has a different pitch.
 
 Demonetisation is a major election campaign and almost all star campaigners from the big parties have touched upon this issue. While BJP candidates are telling voters that the Modi government’s step has helped curb black money, other candidates are pointing to the trouble common people faced.
 
 Some candidates campaigning in the locality dominated by IT professionals are bringing US president into the campaign and are assuring that only their party will ensure that Indian nationals can go to the US to work. 
 
 The state government’s recent order, which was withdrawn later, on no photographs of gods in government offices is also an election issue. Nation, nationalism and culture are at the core of campaign in localities dominated by the elite and upper middle-class voters.
 
 Two statues, one of Dadoji Konddeo and the other of Ram Ganesh Gadkari are hot campaign issues. Though no party is talking about it, the social media is abuzz with the discussions about the statues. An MLA from the mid-city areas has made it an issue in recent times. 
 
 In many parts of the city, caste and community are vital voting factors. 
 
 Caste calculations are on top of the agenda for many candidates seeking votes from community members. Caste and religious organizations and their heads are being roped in to convince voters.
 
 Activist Vijay Kumbhar said political leaders and candidates could not be blamed. 
 
 “Voters must understand the duties of corporators and the corporation. The educated too are not aware of this and citizens and the city suffer. Civic elections are about good governance and good infrastructure that results in quality life for citizens. But hardly are these issues debated or discussed in the election campaign,” Kumbhar said.
 
 Star campaigners, including chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray, NCP president   and MNS chief Raj Thackeray, addressed civic issues in their public meetings, but a big portion of their speeches was devoted to national politics and blaming the other parties. Their   talk has trickled down to the micro level and party candidates are mouthing the same thing in their campaigns.
 
