Kolkata: The state has seven of top 100 institutes in the overall category, according to the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF). 

 While Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur (IIT-Kgp) has bagged the fourth position among all institutes, Jadavpur University,   and Visva-Bharati has secured 12th, 27th and 31st rank, respectively. There are three other institutes from the state on the list (see box).
 
 There’s more good news for JU. It has ranked fifth among universities. CU, on the other hand, has been placed on the 16th position, followed by Visva Bharati, Kalyani University and Vidyasagar University.
 
 Presidency University is the most notable omission from the list. “We had ranked 41st last year. It’s a technical glitch on part of the MHRD as we have been given a code that is applicable under colleges. But we are not even listed in the category. We have written to the Centre to clarify the error,” said Anuradha Lohia, Presidency VC.
 
 The universities have been ranked based on five parameters — teaching and learning resources, research and professional practice, graduation outcomes, outreach and inclusivity and peer perception.
 
 Among top 100 colleges, St Xavier’s College has secured the sixth spot and Loreto House has been placed 18th. No other prominent college in the city has found a rank. 
 
 In the engineering section, IIT-Kgp is the best from Bengal. It has been ranked third, after IIT-Madras and IIT-Bombay. JU too has secured the ninth position in this category. IIEST-Shibpur is the 17th best engineering college. 
 
 Similarly, IIM-C is the third best management institute in the country.  , run by IIT-Kgp, has bagged the seventh rank among B-schools. 
 
 “Creative teaching-learning process and a strong interdisciplinary approach have helped us in securing good ranks. But unfortunately, funds are not flowing from the government as it should have,” said JU vice-chancellor Suranjan Das.
 
 Higher education department officials, however, are surprised with the non-participation of many institutes in the ranking process. “Participating is not yet mandatory. It could be a reason,” a source said.
 
