BENGALURU: "It's a typical Bangalore wicket," India skipper   had declared after he opted to bat against Australia at the M Chinnaswamy Stadium on Saturday. There was nothing typical about the wicket and it didn't take Kohli and his men long to figure that out. But the world's No. 1 Test team did little to adapt to the situation or the visible cracks.

 There was enough movement in the air and off the pitch for Australia's new-ball pair of   and Josh Hazlewood, and it turned and bounced early as well. The hosts never felt at home and several rushed back to the dressing room, falling to soft dismissals. They walked right into curator-turned-international cricketer  's plans, the offspinner wreaking havoc with figures of 8/50, the best by a visiting bowler in India.
 
 At stumps on the opening day of the second Test, even as Australia finished at 40 for no loss, India appeared in what is soon becoming their customary position this series -backs to the wall. They were dismissed for 189 in 71.2 overs, a slightly better display than the 105 and 107 in the first Test in Pune. Still, it did little justice to the wealth of batting talent in the team. India had even rolled up their five-bowler plan in favour of a sixth specialist batsman in  . It all came to nought -and quite spectacularly so -against spin on a turner.
 
 Local lad KL Rahul (90; 205b, 9x4) was the only batsman to provide some colour. Nair (26; 39b, 3x4), Rahul's statemate, looked in fine touch, but didn't stay long enough for the Aussies to grow fresh lines on their faces. Still, Nair was India's second-highest scorer.
 
 Nair was one of two changes made by India. He replaced Jayant Yadav, while   came in for opener  , who missed out with a shoulder injury. Mukund, making his first Test appearance in over five years and guilty of dropping   twice (as a sub) in Pune, failed to cash in. The Tamil Nadu opener gifted Australia the early breakthrough as he tried to play a full toss from Starc to leg, only to be trapped in front.
 
 That raised the curtains for the Lyon show.   (17; 66b, 1x4), who hung around for 102 minutes, was Lyon's first wicket. The 29-year-old bowled a 16-over first spell (340), sent out a length delivery just outside off-stump to Pujara, who failed to cope with turn and bounce and edged to Peter Handscomb at forward short leg. The second wicket stand yielded 61 runs, the best on the day.
 
 
