AGRA: An alleged “gangster” of Aligarh area,  , was arrested by the police when he accompanied  , former   MLA, who joined   recently, to SSP office on Monday.

 According to police officials, Khan had brought Arman, a resident of   to the SSP to put in a “sifarish” (recommendation) for the gangster, claiming that he had been framed wrongly in criminal cases. When the SSP checked Arman’s background, it was revealed that he had been booked under the  .
 
 Instead of listening to then MLA’s “sifarish”, the SSP ordered his arrest. The MLA, who had famously once claimed of giving shelter to gangsters, was reportedly left stunned by the police official’s act.
 
 Talking to TOI, SSP, Rajesh Pandey confirmed that Khan had visited his office to recommend Arman’s case and plead his innocence. He said inquiries made by him revealed otherwise and he ordered his arrest.
 
 He said Arman had been booked under   twice and under Arms Act and NDPS too. He said he was in jail for past three months and was released just few days back. Police was searching for him after Gangster Act was imposed on him.
 
 Khan however, denied that he had approached SSP for pleading Arman’s case. “I had asked the SSP to make inquires about him,” he said accusing the police of bias. Khan said the charge of cow slaughter against Arman was a “made up one” on the basis of an informer report.
 
 He further said that now “innocent” people are being picked up by the police and they are being released on kickback of Rs 25000. “If they are not able to pay money then, they are being booked under cow slaughter and NDPS act,” he said. 
 
 Khan claimed that Arman is 16-year-old and he was sent to jail by station officer of Delhi gate three months back in various cases of cow slaughter and NDPS act. He was presently on bail and the police had imposed “Gangster” Act on him and raided his home on Saturday. 
 
 Recently, the Uttar Pradesh Police issued a terse warning that those involved in cow slaughter and illegal transport of milch animals will be booked under the stringent National Security Act and Gangsters Act. A government order in this regard was passed during the previous Akhilesh Yadav government in the state but was never strictly implemented.
 
 A person booked under the provision of Gangsters Act becomes part of a gang listed in police records. It entitles the police to keep track of those booked under the Act and issue summons to them for attendance at the local police station for questioning even if no fresh case is lodged against them. The act permits the police to seek remand of an accused for a maximum of 60 days as compared to a maximum of 14 days under normal circumstances.
 
