MUMBAI: The   on Friday gave   time till 8am on Saturday to resume duty without fearing any punitive action. Doctors who will continue with their “mass leave“ after the deadline run the risk of attracting strict action, including  .

 On Friday , the court gave them another night to decide on resuming work after the president of Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD), Dr Y Kabra, and its secretary , Dr Swapnil Meshram, said they would endeavour to see to it that all resident doctors were back at hospitals by 8am on Saturday . Both submitted an affidavit saying MARD has “no objection to managements taking any action against individual doctors who continue on mass leave“ after the deadline. They said MARD on Thursday night requested all doctors to re-join work.They said “mass leave“ was not called by the association and six office bearers had resumed work on Thursday .
 
 Abench of Chief Justice Manjula Chellur and Justice Girish Kulkarni had initially reprimanded MARD, but later appreciated it for its efforts to end the strike. After advocate Datta Mane, appearing on a PIL, complained that the strike was on despite MARD's assurances, the HC asked it to state on oath its stand, which MARD did by filing an affidavit by 3pm. Advocate S S Pakale, appear ing for the BMC, said that out of 625 resident doctors in its hospitals, 72 reported to duty on Wednesday , 82 on Thursday, and 29 on Friday morning. He said that according to data given by Sion Hospital's dean Dr S Merchant, 53 patients in KEM Hospital, 48 in Sion and 37 in Nair died this week; he clarified later that the deaths were not on account of the strike.
 
 Advocate general Rohit Deo said the chief minister requested doctors to resume work on Wednesday and despite assuring him, the doctors have been unrelenting. “This is a kind of subterfuge,“ said Deo.
 
 The Association of Medical Consultants, which has over 8,000 members, intervened in the matter. After hearing its counsel, Sujay Kantawalla, the HC requested the association to help resident doctors understand their duties and work towards an “amicable resolution“ of the issue.
 
 The bench had on Thursday questioned the government for “ignoring its doctors“ and putting them in danger by not complying with a June 2016 order to deploy more security at civic and state hospitals. But after the AG said 1,100 new armed guards were to be deployed in April--500 by April 5--it asked doctors to immediately resume work. It recorded an assurance by MARD's advocate, Rahul Totala, that the association would request all doctors to  . The HC has posted the matter for a status update and further hearing on March 27.
 
 
 
 
 The doctors' strike in the private sector was effective for a second day, before the Indian Medical Association (IMA) called it off on Friday evening after a meeting with the chief minister. Over 40% of private clinics, pathology and radiology centres remained shut, an IMA member said. At the major private hospitals, 45-50% of doctors skipped their morning OPDs. A senior doctor from Prince Aly Khan Hospital said that at least 30% of elective surgeries were postponed. “We had no clarity on when the strike would end, and so many surgeries have been scheduled for Monday.“ More than 80% of 500-odd pathology laboratories in the city processed only samples of indoor and ICU patients, said Dr Sandeep Yadav of the Maharashtra Association of Practicing Pathologists and Microbiologists. He said 4,000-odd labs in the state stopped all routine work two days ago. Girgaum's Dr Chhaya Mangeshikar said she has been on strike for two days and hasn't visited her clinic. “All appointments have been cancelled,“ she said.
 
 
 
 
