PUNE: Chief minister   on Saturday announced that, next year onwards, a state-level science conference, on the lines of Bharatiya Vigyan Sammelan, would be organised annually. He was speaking at the valedictory ceremony of 5th   at  .

 Fadnavis further said that the conference will be organised in different cities of the state under the leadership of scientist Vijay Bhatkar. “The sammelan is organised every two years and it travels across the country, which means that it will be too long before it comes back to Maharashtra. Hence, a conference could be organised every year in Maharashtra so that science education gains momentum in the state and students get inspired by such exhibitions.”
 
 Bharatiya Vigyan Sammelan organised the science expo with an aim to bring together traditional as well as modern sciences. The expo was organised at Fergusson College where it began on May 11 and concluded on Sunday. As part of the event, the BRAHMOS missiles, Bharat 52 Howitzer class guns, among others, were on display at the institute. Over 400 research papers were presented at around 40 parallel and poster sessions during the expo.
 
 Learn from traditional 
 
 science: Fadnavis
 
 According to the CM, modern science can draw inspiration from the knowledge contained in ancient Indian scriptures. 
 
 “Modern-era development has to have basis in traditional knowledge,” Fadnavis said at the launch of a book titled ‘Bharatiya Dnyanacha Khajina’, which translates to ‘Treasure of Indian Wisdom’.
 
 The book was written by Prashant Pol, national head of RSS affiliate  . 
 
 “Our ancestors were ahead of their times,” Fadnavis said. Their work in basic science, medicine, mathematics, literature, trade and arts were path-breaking,” the chief minister said. 
 
 Fadnavis said the state government, to encourage books and literature on Indian history, will add them to state-run libraries. 
 
 Minister of State for Defence, Subhash Bhamre and scientist Vijay Bhatkar, the chancellor of  , were also present on the occasion.
 
