MUMBAI: This is probably the reason why the private pathology industry is growing by leaps and bounds in the city. Nine of the 16 peripheral   are working without a pathologist and several others with defunct departments, an RTI has revealed. 

 This reflects the sad state of affairs at peripheral hospitals where patients are forced to seek the services of private laboratories for even basic examinations such as blood and urine, haemoglobin, malaria and dengue tests and histopathology, among such others. The RTI also points to a serious situation where critical tests are carried out by technicians without the supervision of a qualified pathologist. This is also a blatant violation of   rules, which state that reports must be signed by a qualified expert to rule out errors.
 
 Pathology tests are crucial to ensure timely diagnosis of ailments as well as equip clinicians to choose the best treatment approach. According to the RTI, nine hospitals don’t have  , two have only honorary doctors and two are working with bonded candidates. Only one hospital has a permanent, bonded and honorary candidates in the department.
 
 Prominent hospitals such as V N Desai in Santacruz don’t offer histopathology, pap smear (to detect cervical cancer) and FNAC (detection of growth of tumour) regularly, despite having pathologists on board.   in Goregaon does not have a full-time pathologist and the honorary one visits for merely “one or two hours a day,” a source said.
 
 The story is similar at Kurla’s Bhabha Hospital where one honorary pathologist shows up once in a while. Maa Hospital at Chembur runs without a pathology department. Centenary Hospital in Govandi said they don’t have a pathology department though they have four technicians. Bandra’s K B Bhabha Hospital seems to be the only one that routinely offers histopathology, pap smear, fluid analysis and FNAC. 
 
 Interestingly, the RTI also found out that the Kandivli-based Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Municipal General Hospital (Shatabdi) has the most pathologists at seven. “Still the output is very little and most patients are referred to private facilities,” said a hospital insider, adding that civic hospitals are diverting lakhs of pathology tests every day. “At many places, the pathologists themselves run a private lab nearby a and divert the huge patient crowd from corporation hospitals,” said activist Chetan Kothari, who filed the RTI. Chief medical superintendent Dr P Jadhav could not be reached for comments.
 
