4: 44

 
  Hip-hop
 
 In the 13th solo album by  , the gloves are off as the rap mogul takes on his one-time best friend  . The album, titled ' ', can easily be divided into three parts.The first one is Jay apologising for his philandering habits. The second is him dissing Kanye, and the third is Jay marking his legacy.
 The album is slower than most of Jay-Z’s previous ones, yet there is great variation in the songs, and the production quality is slick, thanks to producer No I.D. Out of the 10 tracks in the album, three stand out with their brilliant songwriting and rather cool surprises. The diss tracks in the album include Kill Jay-Z, 'Caught Caught Their Eyes' and 'Family Feud' and some of the jabs are head shots. It’s only fair, considering Kanye went on a live rant last year and publicly called out Jay-Z over issues with the former’s music streaming service. So yes, it’s on between the two. The track '4:44' has the rapper in apology mode from the first line. The lyrics are hair-raising and the beat is haunting with a chorus to match by Hannah Williams. There was a time when rappers were homophobic and Jay-Z is now among those to reject homophobia completely. In 'Smile', he addresses the topic of his mother coming out as a lesbian. A mature, tender track, it is both complex and well-paced, like the old Jay-Z. The poem by his mom   at the end of it gives you hope for a better future.
 
 While the rapper talks about his roots in 'Marcy Me', in 'Moonlight' he shows other rappers their pace. However, the best song in the album remains 'Legacy'. Written like a will, it starts with the rapper’s daughter Saint’s voice sample and goes on to become a paean to Jay’s own legacy. Vain? Of course, it is. Yet, it wears its cockiness on its sleeve, and Jigga pulls it off. Another that comes close is 'Bam' featuring Damian Marley. With a fun, funky and zany reggae chorus, this is where Damian, Jay-Z and No I.D. are having a ball. Nothing ground-breaking in this album, yet it is a quality product from a rapper who is known to deliver.
 
 
