KOLKATA:  , which connects AJC Bose Road to  , is not even a two-lane road and yet a bulk of the road space remains occupied by parked cars. It is not surprising, therefore, that rescue operations started late on Thursday as firetenders struggled to make way to the building. The fire personnel even had to drop the idea of pressing the sky-ladder into service as they failed to negotiate the road. 

 "We could have started fighting the fire a lot earlier had not we got stuck on our way to the spot," said a senior fire brigade official. There was double-line parking on Pretoria Street.
 
 The upscale Pretoria Street residential-cum-office area remains very busy during the day. Many offices have come up in the area over the last few years but nothing has been done to tackle the parking menace. "Cars are parked on either side of the road. Sometimes it gets very difficult to get out of house," said  , a resident of a building opposite to Aspiration Vintage complex.
 
 "I rushed in when I heard that the fire tenders were having difficulty in approaching the building. I found cars parked one after another on the road. I raised an alarm. Some drove their cars away. But some cars were still there. I asked my boys to physically lift them and put them elsewhere so that the road can be cleared for fire tenders," Sushmita Bhattacharya, councillor of ward 63. She managed to move as many as 14 vehicles away.
 
 Fire services minister   took note of the situation. "We have to think about this issue. We have been facing this problem in most of the congested places in the city. In Kolkata, available road space is 6%. We are developing an SOP in case of any fire incident where cordoning off the area will be done far more efficiently and vehicles will be towed away elsewhere," he said. 
 
 The gathering around the building also caused a major problem for us. "We are smashing glass panes of the building to allow smoke to escape. But we were scared if they will fall straight on the crowd as they standing close to the building. Police tried their best to keep them at bay, but many of them were swarming back," said a fire brigade official.
 
 The fire department is also mulling to add slimmer fire tenders to its fleet so that they can negotiate through busy and crowded roads easily. "Narrow lanes encroached by parked vehicles and roadside vendors, coupled with haphazard traffic, have become a nightmare," a fire official said. 
 
 
