 (40) never went to school. He has been skinning dead animals for the last 30 years, and knows no other job. But as trade in animal parts is now fraught with risk, he has been virtually unemployed for the last year.

 “We are under constant threat when we go out to skin an animal. Cow vigilantes have made us feel like criminals. Now even the police are working with them,” says the Bareilly resident.
 
 Jatav’s misery underscores what the government’s chief economic adviser Arvind Subramanian had warned about in June. Soon after the government came out with its cattle sale restrictions, he cautioned: “If social policies impede the workings of the livestock market, the impact on the economics of livestock farming could be considerable.”
 
 It has been over 14 months since four Dalits were thrashed in Gujarat’s Una district by vigilantes for allegedly killing a cow, despite the victims’ pleas that they were merely skinning a dead animal. Cow vigilante outfits evoke palpable fear in rural areas now.
 
 Sampat Singh, a BTech from a Haryana university who heads one such outfit called  , proudly tells TOI: “Over time, we have developed such expertise that one look at a passing vehicle, and we can make out whether it is carrying cows or other animals.” He adds that members of his outfit carry weapons as “many of them have been attacked by cow smugglers”.
 
 The fear of cow vigilantes, coupled with the shutting down of illegal abattoirs in UP and the Centre’s notification on cattle trade, has also affected the movement of buffaloes. A senior official of a tannery association in Kanpur said the number of buffaloes being brought to the city’s slaughterhouses daily has dropped from 1,200 about three years ago to just 200-300 now.   secretary Feroz Alam says supply of hides has shrunk to just 30%. “The tannery industry has lost almost Rs 1,600 crore of business this year,” he says.
 
 Consequently, the entire chain of trade in hides and its ancillary industries, right from raw material to finished products, has been hit. Babu Miyan, the 74-year-old owner of a leather processing unit in Bareilly has shut down his business. “We now trade only in goat and sheep hides. There is no future in this business. People who own big units are already shifting to synthetic alternatives,” says Babu Miyan.
 
 Traders at Buta Mandi in Jalandhar, the biggest hide market of north India after Kanpur, say prices have dropped to less than half. “This started happening as cow vigilantism hit international headlines,” says Seth Satpal Mal, president of  . He adds that the uncertainty about the supply of raw material shook the confidence of international buyers, which led to a fall in orders.
 
 “A major part of our raw hide was going to export-oriented units,” he says, adding, “I have never faced such bad conditions in 49 years of business.” Amar Nath, another trader, rues the fact that Pakistan and Bangladesh have gained at the cost of Indian manufacturers.
 
 
 
 
