GUWAHATI: Cutting across party lines, all members of the assembly on Tuesday unanimously   on the   at Silapathar by   (NIBUSS), a pro-Hindu Bengali illegal Bangladeshi migrants' group. 

 The house also decided to send an all-party team to Silapathar and urged the state government to nab the culprits immediately. Speaker Hitendra Nath Goswami said an all-party goodwill team, led by deputy speaker Dilip Kumar Paul, will visit Silapathar and submit a report. "This is a condemnable incident. All such divisive forces should be curbed strictly. The government should take action against anti-socials trying to commit divisive acts," said Goswami. He urged the government to ensure security for all sections of society.
 
 Parliamentary affairs minister Chandra Mohan Patowary said the government will not allow anyone from 'outside' to vitiate the atmosphere in the state. "We condemn the incident. We have already formed an inquiry committee headed by additional chief secretary VB Pyarelal. It will submit its report witin 30 days. We will take strict action and will not allow such meetings in future," said Patowary. 
 
 AGP legislator Phani Bhusan Choudhury said a similar meeting by a pro-Bengali Hindu illegal migrants group is scheduled to be organised on March 10 at Mayong in Morigaon district and requested the government not to give permission to the group.
 
 Leader of the opposition, Debabrata Saikia of Congress, said NIBBUSS president Subodh Biswas, who hails from Nagpur, gave inflammatory speeches on Monday which resulted in the attack on Aasu office. 
 
 "The government failed to read the situation. The district administration should not have given permission for the meeting which onvened for demanding citizenship for Hindu immigrants from Bangladesh coming to Assam after 1971. There should have been adequate security," he added. He sought an inquiry by a sitting high court judge.
 
 AIUDF member Aminul Islam said the government must ensure that the situation does not flare up as a circle with vested interests is working to destabilise Assam. AGP MLA   said the NIBBUSS leader from Nagpur should be arrested for giving an making inflammatory speech and asked the government not to allow such meetings in future. 
 
 
