NAGPUR: Almost after three decades of being exploited, victims of land mafia Dilip Gwalbanshi and his gan are coming forward and getting back possession of their lands as city police continue their stringent action the accused. After being put behind bars, Gwalbanshi lost his hold over lands grabbed from people.

 Some 76 land owners, who had bought plots in Vaibhav Anand and Khwaja Gareeb Nawaj (KGN) societies in Mankapur many years ago, acquired their respective lands back by out vendors who had occupied it. Some even started construction on their plots. Joint commissioner of police Shivaji Bodkhe told TOI those having proper property documents should come forward and cops would help them take charge of their land.
 
 Victims are thankful to the city police for acting against the land mafia. Cops are also making a list of other land mafia operating in the city apart from Gwalbanshi and gang. Strict action is in offing against those operating in other parts of the city too. Along with the Gittikhadan, Mankapur and Koradi police station, several similar complaints have been lodged at Hudkeshwar, Hingna, Nandanvan, Sonegaon, Jaripatka, MIDC, Ajni and at other police stations. 
 
 “One of the victims had bought land in 1988. He got his land back after 30 years,” said senior PI PM Bhatkar. Sixty land owners received their plots back in the Vaibhav Anand Society while 16 people took back charge on their land in  , added Bhatkar. 
 
 Joint CP Bodkhe stated, “Illegal occupants of the land who are not leaving possession, would face stringent action. The relevant sections would be slapped against them.” Lists of such squatters would be prepared in a few days. It has also came to fore that some accused have already returned lands to original owners owing to fear of strict action, added Bodkhe.
 
 Joint CP formed a   (SIT) last Thursday. However, within a few hours, transfer of senior police officers were announced. Bodkhe claimed those transfers would not have impact on ongoing action. New officers would study the case and would continue probe. 
 
 Asked about squatters who submitted a memorandum to him, Bodkhe responded, “Land owners should bring the original papers. We would definitely support all genuine victims by taking legal action.”
 
 
 
 
 Sixty one-year-old retired assistant police constable Babarao Dhomne is among those who have registered a complaint against Gwalbanshi and his relative Harish Gwalbanshi, a corporator, Shailesh Gwalbanshi and their accomplices at Gittikhadan police station. Dhomne had bought a plot measuring 1500 sqft in   in 2002. Gwalbanshi had allegedly grabbed his plot. A few months back, he was asked to pay Rs7lakh to get his own plot back. However, Dhomne didn’t lodge a complaint as he was threatened with murder. After Gwalbanshi’s arrest though, Dhomne too filed a FIR.
 
