An Olympic medal may have just slipped out of her grasp in  , but   — diminutive gymnast and one of the tallest icons in the country today — rejoices in the fact that the two medals India bagged both came to our   Olympians. “There will be pressure of all kinds, but one has to dream big and be at it. I am ecstatic that the two medal-winners at the Olympics (PV Sindhu and  ) are both women. The others too performed really well. Women are in no way behind men in today’s day and age,” she tells us from  .

 
 
 That opened our chat with her on the occasion of International Women’s Day. While it’s important to listen to one’s parents, it’s equally important to understand one’s calling, Dipa feels. Is there equality in sport, we ask her. “I am not equipped to answer this. Many used to say that women were of no good when it came to sports. Now they have changed their mind and know women can do it if they put their heart and soul into the game. The times are changing.”
 
 
 Despite her new-found celebrity status, Dipa’s life hasn’t changed a great deal. “There’s no change in my personal life. What has changed is the perception of gymnastics in India. A lot of people have come to know more about gymnastics and that, in turn, has made the sport more popular. Parents too are showing interest. They want their children to take up gymnastics. Also, people now know what the   vault is. And there’s enquiry not just in Tripura, but all over the country. People now hold Tripura — a small state in the country’s   — in high esteem,” says the proud Tripura girl.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Coming from a state not known to produce many sporting greats itself was a challenge, remembers Dipa. What’s more, she wanted to be a gymnast as far back as she can remember. “There were a lot of difficulties. I was doing something most people couldn’t relate to — gymnastics. Also, they didn’t know Tripura too well. Now they know both. My coach, Bisweshwar Nandi sir, never let these affect my game. He dealt with them on his own. He encouraged me to concentrate on just my sport,” says Dipa. The 23-year-old, who took up the sport at an early age of six, was faced with yet another problem as a child. She had flat feet, an unwanted physical trait in gymnasts. But with extensive training, Dipa managed to develop the arches of her feet. “Only my coach and my parents knew that I had flat feet as a child. Back then, I was not aware that it could affect my game.”
 
 
 
 Several sportpersons from the country and abroad lauded Dipa on her performance at Rio. But the most important piece of advice came from  . “He asked me not to stop at anything and said it was just the beginning. I couldn’t believe that someone of his stature was telling me this. I am very happy that my performance got noticed,” she says with a smile.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Dipa’s busy schedule hasn’t allowed her to catch many movies even after the Olympics drew to a close. “The last movie that I watched was  . I really liked it. Sports films are always welcome; they make parents think. Apart from doctors and engineers, the country also needs good sportsmen and that’s not possible without the support of parents. About a film on me, my coach is the best person to answer this. I think my career has just begun. When it comes to a close, a film can take shape, as I am yet to contribute a lot to my country. Also, Produnova would be very difficult to perform even on screen,” she said.
 
 
 “My parents (Dulal and Gita Karmakar) have been extremely supportive,” said Dipa, who shares a close bond with her family. “My mother is a homemaker, she is not much clued into gymnastics. She knows the apparatus and of course, the Produnova vault. But she has done everything possible 
 to help me realise my dream. My sister has also inspired me a lot. They are a big reason why I am here today,” said the youngster.
 
 
