TV actor and host   was in Delhi recently and went to Gurgaon to meet his sister and spend some time with his parents. While there, we took him to a place he usually doesn’t go to, Cyber Hub, since he says he's not a party person. Gautam, who is an alumnus of  , Dhaula Kuan, talked about how, in school, his name was synonymous with fights, and how the aunties in his west Delhi neighbourhood back then would instantly get to know about them. He also shared why he wouldn't give up television at any cost even though he's gearing up for his Bollywood debut.

  
 Gautam reminisced about his days in Delhi, and how different they are from life in Gurgaon. He said, "It has been four years since I have been to Delhi. I still have a house in Patel Nagar, my mom keeps going back there to get it cleaned. Whenever I land in Delhi, I directly go to Gurgaon from the airport, so I have not been to that part of the city for years. But that part of Delhi has a completely Punjabi culture where everyone knows everyone."
 
  "I still remember that while growing up, whenever I had any problem in school, saath wali aunty ko bhi pata chal jata tha. School se ghar jaate time comments mil hi jate thay, 'aaj dant pad gayi?' toh lagta tha ki aunty ko sab pata hai. In Gurgaon, the scene is more western. People are busy among themselves, in their corporate lives and partying. In west Delhi, the scene is more homely. Everyone knows about each other. So that’s the difference I feel," Gautam added. He visits his sister whenever he gets some time off from work and prefers to always stay at home with his family. "I don't prefer going out when I go to Gurgaon to meet my sister. I am not a party person at all, I have never been one. I don't drink or smoke and I am hardly a foodie, so there is hardly anything that I can do at a party. After 20 minutes of being at a party, there's sort of an alarm that goes off in my head, telling me to leave. It helps and I have seen people grow after doing all these things but it is not my scene," he said. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 While talking about his days in Army Public School, Dhaula Kuan, Gautam mentioned how proud he was of his alma mater, where he practically lived half of his life. "I studied there from nursery to 12th, so I have practically lived half of my life there. I was a quiet child till the 9th and was a sprinter in 100 metres. I was called 'Rode ghode'. But from 10th onwards, I got involved in proper fist fights with the seniors. There's always some amount of friction between the juniors and the seniors and I never fought for myself. If any of my friends had a fight with any of the seniors, I used to get involved. Those were major fights, and my parents used to come to school often. That time, fights meant Gautam Rode. My name was either connected to 100 metres sprints or fights at that time. But with age, I controlled my temper and never got into any fight after school," he shared.
 
 
  
  
 
  
 While JNU is soon going to have tanks in its premises to instill the feeling of nationalism among its students, Gautam, who has studied in a school where he he's seen tanks since he was a kid, said that the students there never connected to tanks in a patriotic way. "For us, it was just a tank! We used to click pictures with it, and that’s it. Patriotic hoga, yeh sab nahi sochte thay. Seeing it from nursery till 12th, there was no feeling of patriotism as such. We knew that it was used in the wars, we had seen tanks in films, but they were just tanks. There was nothing patriotic about it. I don't think tanks can make you feel patriotic," he added.
 
  
  (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam
 
 
  
 Gautam, who is also preparing for the release of his next film, says that TV actors cannot choose between films and television. "Television has taught me everything. The basic education I got from TV has made me an actor. I am not from an acting school, so it has made me everything I am today. In films, you prepare for your characters, you have workshops, you practise, but in television you have madness, and I love that. TV is crazy, but you learn everything from that. In TV, our fans, the production houses and the channels know us, but in films, we are completely new. If we are accepted, we will be doing more stuff. We can be choosy about roles but we can’t say, 'mujhe television hi karna hai ya films hi karni hain.' Plus, TV is huge in international markets. I have a huge fan base in Latin America, Indonesia and other places where a film actor will not be known. That’s how the equation has changed. Our shows are dubbed in their language and it is great to see such a fan following. I was in Indonesia for a week recently, and it was great to see the response," he said.
 
 
 
