Panaji: The state government has sought the legal opinion of advocate general (AG) Saresh Lotlikar on the draft gaming rules, which have been framed along the Macau model, before the rules can be brought into force.  The rules, which have a provision to ban the entry of Goans on casinos except for employment, were earlier recalled by the home department from the law department to be redrafted based on the Macau casino rules.  “We have now sent the gaming commission file to the AG and are waiting for his opinion before the rules are notified,” a senior officer told TOI. The state cabinet had recently defined many terms like area, casino, electronic gaming, live gaming, offshore, offshore casino, onshore casino and passenger capacity in the Goa Public Gambling (Amendment) Act 1976.  Under the draft rules, the state home department has given power to the state government to appoint a gaming commissioner which could be a private person or a government officer.  The home department said that if a private person is appointed then he should be provided necessary infrastructure including staff or they could appoint the collector, excise commissioner or the commercial tax commissioner as the gaming commissioner. The home department has not changed any rules which were there in the draft rules prepared in 2015.  In June 2015, the home department had first drafted the rules, under which there is a provision to arrest any person under the age 21 and any Goan, irrespective of age, found gambling in a casino in the state. Goans working in casinos will not be affected.  The state government had passed the amendment to the Goa Public Gaming Act, 1976 by introducing the Goa Public Gaming (Amendment) Bill, 2012 in June 2012. When the amendment was introduced in the state assembly, then chief minister Manohar Parrikar, the current defence minister of the country, had said it was being done to ensure that Goans do not get into gambling. Goa has five offshore casinos and over a dozen onshore casinos.