NEW DELHI: The Centre has sanctioned two engineering colleges and seven girls' hostels among other facilities for J&K besides a special grant of Rs 200 crore for payment of salary to teachers in government schools. 

  The decision was taken at a meeting on Wednesday held by HRD minister   with J&K education minister Altaf Bukhari and minister of state Priya Sethi with senior officials from the ministry and state in attendance. 
 
  After the meeting,   said the ministry has allocated Rs 52 crore for setting up of two engineering colleges - one each in the   and  . "While creating the infrastructure for engineering colleges will take another one to two years, the colleges will start functioning from this year itself. The colleges are being approved under   and Rs 25 crore will be disbursed this week itself," said Javadekar. 
 
 The minister also said 5000 students from the state will be given the Prime Minister's scholarships worth Rs 2.25 lakh per student for pursuing professional courses in engineering, medicine, management and hospitality among others in various institutions across the country. "The selection process for meritorious students has already started."
 
  Javadekar also announced the grant for hostels to seven government degree colleges for which Rs 50 crore have been allocated. He said land for the Indian Institute of Management (Jammu) has been offered by the state government and a team will visit for an assessment for creation of the permanent campus. 
 
 Stating that real Kashmiriyat is the aspirations of the youth of Jammu and Kashmir, the minister said that the government will support the state government in uplifting the education system. "Thirty schools were burnt down in Kashmir. But the students' participation in the Board exams and education is the real Kashmiriyat. In the school education sector, Rs 200 crore has been allocated for teachers' salary and another Rs 36 crore as recurring grant for elementary education."
 
 "We will also meet the education ministers of other states soon," said Javadekar.
 
 
