Taapsee Pannu’s big Bollywood debut in 2013 failed to leave a mark. It wasn’t until a cameo in the 2015 thriller 'Baby' and an author-backed role in last year’s social drama, 'Pink', that she tasted success and critical acclaim. This year, she is all set to come into her own with a lead role in the 'Baby' spin-off, ' '. In a no-holds-barred chat with BT, Taapsee holds forth on why she doesn’t fit into the mould of the quintessential Hindi film heroine, her action avatar, empowerment of women and nepotism in Bollywood. Excerpt

  
 
 I didn’t zero in on the role, it zeroed in on me. After seeing the response to Shabana (her character in 'Baby'), the makers decided to do come up with a full-fledged film on her. This film is the perfect example of what audiences can do. 'Naam Shabana' was not thought of by the filmmakers, the audiences made them think about it. That’s why I always say, ‘jiska koi nahi hota, uska audience hota hai.’ I don’t have a Godfather in Bollywood. My audience is my Godfather.
 
  
 
 Neeraj (Pandey, writer-producer) sir would immediately stop the shoot if he felt that a stunt was tricky or had the potential to go awry. Cyril, the French stuntman who trained me, ensured that all precautionary measures were in place. The kind of trouble they take to ensure safety can drive you nuts. I have never gotten injured while shooting for the film. Also, I had trained hard to get into the skin of my character. However, basic bruises and clotting were common. 
 
  
 
 It was intimidating, as I was surrounded by accomplished actors. I don’t get intimidated by the biggest of stars, but when I know that I am sharing my workspace with brilliant actors, it’s tough not to be in awe. Neeraj doesn’t scream or shout, but his sarcastic one-liners can be potent. It was one of the most serious sets I have ever been a part of. Even the jokes were delivered with a poker straight face. On the other hand, I am somebody who talks a lot and laughs out loud. I think I was the most I dramatic person on the film’s set.
 
 
 
 The stress and pressure of the film’s box-office performance is being taken care of by two pairs of strong shoulders — Akshay Kumar and  . I know that the film is in safe hands. 
 
  
 
 Frankly, I didn’t get roles in commercial films after my debut, as there were already many beautiful girls who were doing well in that space. So, I have made the most of the opportunities that I got. I believe there are two ways of going about it. You either accept roles that present you as the most glamourous or desirable person or you do the hard-hitting ones because then, people have no other option but to notice you. I have taken the latter route.
 
  
 
 I have no qualms in admitting that I am a director’s actor. If that gets interpreted as ‘She doesn’t know her job and that’s why she relies on the director’, so be it. I use my faculties to choose the right director and script. After that, I surrender myself to a David Dhawan or a Neeraj Pandey because they are the masters of their respective genres. As far as improvisation is concerned, I do it when I relate to a character on a personal level. On Neeraj sir’s sets, it was pretty much by the book as I didn’t relate to Shabana on a personal level.
 
  
 
 Our audiences have changed; they have started watching Hollywood films. There, the number of female protagonist-driven films is high. Writing a film with a woman at the centre of the narrative is a complex process as women have many layers to their personality. If executed well, it makes for good content.
 
  
 
 Women have to be their own heroes. They should stop expecting a knight in shining armour to come to their rescue. That’s not going to happen. We need to take charge of our own safety and lives. Women should stop seeking permission to live their lives the way they want. We can’t keep waiting for approval when it comes to making choices, be it in terms of careers or, for that matter, even something as simple as going on a holiday. We can’t keep waiting for approval from husbands and in-laws because that’s bizarre. Also, women have to stop becoming villains in each other’s lives. Women empowerment in the real sense can be achieved only if one woman aims to empower another.
 
 
  
 
 I am a proud outsider, nobody forced me to come into the industry. I was aware of the nepotism that exists in the industry and even then, I decided to be a part of it. I don’t like playing the victim card. There are filmmakers who happily work with outsiders like Shoojit Sircar and Neeraj Pandey. You might lose out on some projects because of nepotism, but something else will come your way. You can’t keep blaming nepotism for not getting work. I wasn’t even passionate about acting and probably, that worked in my favour because I didn’t see films as the be all and end all of my life. You will get your fair share of work despite having no connections in the industry and I am the living example of that. It is a game and nepotism is part of it. Play your outsider card if you have to.
 
 
 
 
 
