BHOPAL: Two years of struggle by by Bhopal   to get a pair of young lions may come to an end in year 2017. 

 Follolwing a phone call by park's director Atul Srivastava on Wednesday, Gujarat has promised to give a pair of lions from "new stock" in exchange for sambar and chital deer from Van Vihar. This will be the first time in years that Van Vihar will get lions from the wild. Sources said the four found in the park now (you can see only one) were rehabilitated here after being rescued from circuses.
 
 While talking to TOI, an elated Srivastava said: "I called officials of   of Gujarat on Wednesday to reminding them about our need of a pair of young lions. After a wait of two years, I believe Van Vihar will soon be able to hear the roar of young lions."
 
 He added that initially there was no response from Gujarat, however after sending multiple reminders they agreed to give a pair. "They had allotted us last year but when our doctor went to examine the lions, his report showed that the lions were too old and unwell. As the lions were not fit for the park and we had asked for a young couple, so we refused to take the pair," he said.
 
 Van Vihar sent a written reminder last month and the director called them on Wednesday. He said at present Van Vihar National Park has four lions and all of them are old.
 
 The youngest, 17-year-old Shiva, was rescued from Jaipur circus and brought here on May 18, 2006. Johny, a doddering 26, was rescued from   of  , Chhattisgarh. He was brought to Van Vihar Park on October 22, 2006.
 
 The third one is lioness Jamuna, aged 23. She was rescued from Kanon Pindari crcus in Bilaspur and brought to Bhopal on July 1, 2010. The fourth, Shivani, is 18 years old and was brought here on May 18, 2006, from Jaipur.
 
 Srivastava said, "In 2006, Supreme Court ordered that animals should be rescued from circuses and taken to rehabilitation centres. Bhopal's Van Vihar is the only such centre for fivew states: Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh.
 
 "Due to this we received three lions in 2006 and a fourth in 2010. They are still strong at present," he zsaid, adding that the lions that are rescued can't be kept for display for common people as it is not ethically viable. "However we have kept Shivani in the lower area due to which sometimes she is visible to the visitors," he said.
 
 
