CHANDIGARH: Even as the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP’s) new Punjab co-president Aman Arora called for bringing former state convener   back into the party fold, the latter said on Friday that chances of his return were bleak. Arora also said that Chhotepur’s removal was the main reason behind the party’s defeat in the state elections. He argued that the party could have avoided sacking him as state convener.

 “I have only read about Arora’s views in newspapers and have not been approached by the party. Even if I am offered to return to AAP, the unceremonious exit imposed on me would make it very difficult to get over that episode. Almost the entire state leadership, except  , had signed on the letter to demand my removal as part of a larger plan,” Chhotepur told TOI.
 
 Asked if he was open to considering an offer to return, Chhotepur added, “If they contact me, I will first discuss the matter with my supporters, especially those who stood by me through the tough phase, and then take a call.”
 
 Chhotepur, who floated his own Aapna Punjab Party (APP) last year said his party would soon decide whether it would contest the forthcoming municipal elections and the   bypolls.
 
 Meanwhile, Sandhu has welcomed Arora’s initiative to bring rebel AAP leaders back. “I just read Punjab AAP co-president, Aman Arora's comment on getting people like Sucha Singh Chhotepur back into the party fold. I wish my colleagues in the party in the state had spoken out then. You will recall that not only was I the only one who did not sign the demand for Chhotepur’s ouster; I made frantic efforts to prevent his ouster.”
 
 “The need now is not only to get Chhotepur back also all senior leaders back into the party fold, starting from Dr Dharamvira Gandhi (suspended AAP leader and Patiala MP). Even then, I had reached out to him but to no avail as I was not supported by others. I am glad the party was now realizing the importance of unity,” he said.
 
 Earlier this month, Gurpreet Singh Waraich (Ghuggi), who quit AAP after being removed as convener claimed that he was not shown the video-tape on Chhotepur “accepting a bribe”, a change which was cited as reason for his removal by AAP leadership. Arora meanwhile, has also appealed to volunteers who quit the party, to return. 
 
 The discarded ones
 
 Sucha Singh Chhotepur (floated APP)
 
 Patiala MP Dr Dharamvira Gandhi (suspended by AAP)
 
 Fatehgarh Sahib MP Harinder Singh Khalsa (suspended by AAP)
 
 AAP’s Khadoor Sahib Candidate for 2014 Lok Sabha polls Bhai Baldeep Singh (suspended by AAP)
 
 Former in-charge of AAP’s campaign committee for 2014 polls   (contested assembly bypoll as independent)
 
 Former in-charge of AAP’s disciplinary committee Dr Daljit Singh
 
 
