They say nobody is indispensable. Yet, companies go to great lengths to retain workers who are seen as critical for their operations. Here are 9 ways you can make yourself indispensable.

 
 
 
 Develop deep expertise in a function or a role. Of course, this does not mean you monopolise that skill and put up hurdles for others who want to learn that task. But become so good at it that no one else is entrusted with that function. Upskilling has become easier with the launch of massive open online courses. Taking up a full-time course may not be feasible for many but online courses can help you acquire new skills without taking a break from work. The pace of these courses can also be customised.
 
 
 
 
 
 Organisations value employees who mentor and train junior colleagues. Mentoring engenders trust among teams and inspires employees to perform to their highest ability. At a broader level, it helps develop and retain talent. So, if you are helping your teammates and training juniors, you will be seen as someone the company must retain at all costs. The idea is to become valuable by supporting and adding value to other employees. The support can even be in the form of help in everyday functions or stepping in to firefight when a teammate is in a spot.
 
 
 
 
 To become indispensable at work, you need to step out of that comfort zone and start doing stuff you haven’t done before. Do at least one thing every week that is not part of the duties assigned to you. Your eagerness to take up new challenges will send a signal to the management that you are willing to go that extra mile to add value to the organisation. “The focus should be on optimising value addition to the organisation,” says Moorthy K. Uppaluri, Managing Director & CEO, Randstad India.
 
 
 
 
 Organisations value employees who offer effective solutions to problems. They are seen as people who have the company’s interests in mind. If the company or your division is facing a problem and you have a solution in mind, don’t go to your boss without working out a rational decision making model and a detailed action plan. Here’s a simple roadmap: first identify the cause of the problem. Then think of all the potential solutions. Analyse the feasibility of each solution and then select the best option. Write down why it makes the most sense and then chart out an implementation plan. Don’t go into too much detail at this stage, keep your presentation concise and to the point. It will help you get to the point very quickly. If your idea is workable, it will cement your indispensability in the company.
 
 
 
 
 In the present day workplace, where new technologies and artificial intelligence are fast making humans irrelevant, adapting is crucial. “The only skill which keeps your relevant is the ability to constantly evolve, learn and improve. Everything else can be replicated,” says Rituparna Chakraborty, Cofounder and Senior VP,  .
 
 Individuals who embrace change and adapt quickly are seen as more valuable than those who cling to outdated principles. Don’t be afraid of change but welcome it. Experiment with new ideas that are meant to improve productivity and performance
 
 
 
 
 No, this doesn’t mean you suck up to your boss. It only means that you perform tasks that take some load off his back and allow him to focus on more important duties. This requires a proactive approach, especially because this work is not part of your assigned duties. Don’t wait for your boss to call for help. Find out which tasks irk him, then look for ways to do them. If you do this regularly, your boss will start relying on you more. The more irksome the task, the happier he will be that someone else is doing it. Once he gets used to it, he will ensure that you are retained by the company at all costs.
 
 
 
 
 Personal integrity is a fundamental attribute that companies seek in employees. A person who demonstrates high moral values is considered more valuable than someone who is not so particular about ethics. An honest person’s actions make him trustworthy and dependable. You won’t find him indulging in petty office politics or badmouthing his colleagues.
 
 
 
 
 Missing a project deadline, arriving late for a meeting or going on leave without prior notice are unpleasant surprises that managers love to hate. For them, reliability equals efficiency. If an employee shows up on 
 time, finishes his work before the deadline and maintains basic office discipline, he is seen as more valuable. Reliability is more than just time management. It reflects the mindset of the individual and shapes his career path. Be consistently reliable in everything you do. Also, before you make a commitment, be sure that you will be able to keep it.
 
 
 
 
 It is important to build good relationships, not only within your team and with the people you report to, but also with others in the organisation. It helps to be well connected with senior people in the organisation. “No person or role is an island. Interpersonal skills and the ability to network are as important as the basic knowledge required for the job,” says Moorthy of  .
 
 Relationship with clients are also critical. A company may not want to let go of someone if it knows that his exit might take away a lot of business. Invest in your relationships with clients to improve your standing within the company.
 
 
 )
 
