CHENNAI: Water from the Krishna river, released 12 days ago from Andhra Pradesh, has still not reached Chennai, PWD officials have said. Usually it takes about five days for water from AP to reach Chennai through the 152-km  .

 The AP government released the water stored in the Kandaleru reservoir at a flow rate in excess of 1,000 cusecs (28,300 litres per second) but the flow rate reduced to a negligible 1.93 cusecs (55 litres per second) on Thursday morning. At the current rate, PWD officials said, it could take 10-15 days for water to trickle into the Poondi reservoir.
 
 The   has entered   at the zero point in Uthukottai, the interstate border. It has another 25km to travel before it enters the Poondi reservoir, one of the four city reservoirs. PWD officials who inspected the inflow said it had slowed down as farmers living along the Kandaleru-Poondi canal were diverting the water for irrigation.
 
 Villagers along the canal are likely to tap more water if the inflow comes down. “As inflow rate has reduced drastically, water will stagnate in the canal for a longer period, and this will give famers a larger window of time for tapping water.” Tapping of water continues unabated despite monitoring of the canal by AP officials.
 
 The water was released on January 9, in response to a written request by Tamil Nadu chief minister  . Last week, a delegation led by Panneerselvam met Andhra Pradesh chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu at Velagapudi, the temporary secretariat complex in the Amaravati capital region, and urged him to step up release from the Kandaleru reservoir so that the city gets at least 5tmcft (thousand million cubic feet) of water.
 
 However, PWD officials said that only 1tmcft (thousand million cubic feet) water is likely to be released to Chennai. Paneerselvam had underlined the “dire need” for assured supply from Andhra Pradesh to support Chennai’s drinking water needs. The north east monsoon which brings Chennai and the rest of the state the bulk of its annual rainfall had failed, causing a 57% rainfall deficit in the city
 
 The combined storage of the Poondi, Chembarambakkam, Redhills and Cholavaram reservoirs that cater to Chennai has fallen to 1.3 tmcft against the capacity of 11.05tmcft, forcing   to cut supply of water from 831 million litres of water per day (mld) to 550 mld. While the 1983 interstate agreement between the two states guaranteed 12tmcft year at the inter-state border, TN did not receive water in 2015-16, and only 0.99tmcft in 2016-2017.
 
 
