NEW DELHI: Fugitive businessman  , who fled to the UK to escape criminal proceedings against him for not refunding bank loans of nearly Rs 9,000 crore, failed to appear before the Supreme Court on Monday in defiance of the order of the apex court which was to decide on quantum of punishment for contempt. 

 A bench of Justices A K Goel and UU Lalit had on May 9 held him guilty of contempt of court for not honestly disclosing all his assets and diverting $40 million to overseas accounts of his family members in violation of the court's order. It had directed Mallya to personally appear before the court on July 10 to decide the punishment to be awarded to him. 
 
 A s neither Mallya nor his lawyer appeared before the court, the bench adjourned the case for July 14 to decide the further course of action to be taken against the former chief of the now-grounded   (KFA). The court was told that notice to the businessman was duly served after he was convicted for contempt of court. The court was hearing contempt proceedings against Mallya filed by a consortium of 17 banks, led by SBI, which contended that he had not made truthful disclosure of his assets before the court and he had intentionally kept the court in dark on payment of $40 million, which he received in February last year from British liquor major Diageo for stepping down as Chairman and of United Spirits Limited . 
 
 SBI has the highest exposure of Rs 1,600 crore to KFA. Other banks that have exposure to KFA include Punjab National Bank and IDBI Bank (Rs 800 crore each), Bank of India (Rs 650 crore), Bank of Baroda (Rs 550 crore), Central Bank of India (Rs 410 crore). Among other banks, UCO Bank has to recover Rs 320 crore and Corporation Bank Rs 310 crore. 
 
 The SC had started contempt proceedings against Mallya and had issued notice to him on March 8, 2016, on the plea by banks for recovery of about Rs 9,000 crore which Mallya and his companies owed to them. Mallya, however, managed to flee the country days before the SC took up the case against him.
 
 
