KOLKATA: An auto driver -married for eight years and father of a six-year-old boy -was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly molesting a   student in   while she was on the front seat of his three wheeler on Tuesday evening.

 Samar Sen, 33, had allegedly touched the girl's body indecently during the course of an eight-minute ride despite her repeated objections till she got down from the auto, 300m ahead of her destination near Bidhan Abasan at Laboni. Sen then allegedly dropped the four other passengers at Kakurgachi, drank with a group of friends till late in the night and went to sleep after returning home well past midnight. Police knocked on his door around 1.30am and dragged him out, three-and-half hours since the girl lodged a complaint.
 
 “Many of my friends and relatives have often experienced such indecent behavior from auto drivers and fellow passengers in the bus and Metro but on most occasions, they shy away from lodging a complaint. I had also experienced such molestation in the past but on Tuesday, I wanted to teach the man a lesson. So, I lodged a complaint and I am happy that the man was arrested,“ said  , 20, stressing on the fact she does not want to confide her identity.
 
 According to the history Honours stu dent from Jadavpur University, she was returning home from the book fair and got into an auto at Karunamoyee crossing around 8.45pm to head home. There were three men sitting on the backseat, so she sat on the front, to the left of the driver, as he started the journey. “As we reached the  , the driver took an elderly woman in the front seat. I wanted to get down and let the woman sit in the middle but the driver refused and asked me to sit closer to him man sit on the and let the woman sit on the side,“ she said.
 
 Basu says as the journey restarted, the man started touching her around her waist and chest. “I pushed aside his hand with my right arm but he continued to touch me inappropriately. Then, he started brushing his leg against my leg. I could'nt bear it any more and shouted,“ she said.
 
 She asked the auto driver to stop and asked him to behave properly but he allegedly ignored it. None of the other passengers in the auto came to her support. So she got down before her destination, paid the fare but noted the auto's registration number on her cellphone.
 
 “I then called up the Bid “I then called up the Bid hannagar city police's women's helpline number (23357000) and informed them about my plight while walking back home. Once I reached home, I called them again asking what action they were planning to take. The woman attending the call asked me to go to the police station and file a complaint,“ she said.
 
 Basu went to Bidhannagar south police station around 10pm with her mother and lodged a complaint. “The cops were helpful and took a prompt action. At 1.43am, I received a text message from the officer-in-charge informing me that the driver was arrested,“ she said.
 
 Samar alias Chhakka was arrested from his home at a slum on   and was produced before a Salt Lake court on Wednesday morning where he was sent to jail for 10 days.
 
