GURUGRAM: The unearthing of a  ,700-crore Ponzi scam in Noida that offered returns for liking pages on social media, had raised fears that this would open a Pandora’s box. 

 That is exactly what seems to be happening. 
 
 An operation similar to Anubhav Mittal’s Social Trade has been detected in Gurgaon. Known as Profit Network, the company, according to police, also sent links to investors on their smartphones, just like Mittal’s Social Trade, which was busted by UP Police’s special task force on February 2, did. 
 
 What this reveals is a phenomenon that India’s financial security agencies have been slow to comprehend — the metamorphosis of the age-old   into internet-driven digital marketing avatars.   seems to have mastered this and others like Profit Network appear to have been milking their “business potential” while staying under the radar. 
 
 Profit Network came to light when a complaint was made at the police commissioner’s office on Monday. An FIR was registered on Tuesday at Badshapur police station on the basis of the victims’ claims that their daily returns had started tapering off. Preliminary investigation has revealed the company cheated many investors using the same trick. Now, many other duped people are reaching out to police. 
 
 On Wednesday, a police team conducted a raid at the registered office of Profit Network, located in Vipul Trade Tower in Sector 48, but found the office locked. The mobile number of the owner and other company officials were also found switched off. 
 
 According to police, Vijay Kumar, resident of Rewari, and his friend Amit Kumar, had lodged a complaint at police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar’s office on Monday, in which they claimed they had been duped by Profit Network. “Investors were sent online links which they were asked to click on their smartphones. I heard from a friend that the company offered five types of plans,” Vijay Kumar wrote in his complaint. “I joined the company on January 23 and bought several units of the scheme PNK-125, in which the company promised a return of Rs 1,500 per day against 300 clicks. I lost Rs 1,90,000.” 
 
 He continued, “It worked well till February 7, and the promised sum kept getting deposited in my bank account through NEFT daily. But from February 8, the deposits suddenly stopped. When I contacted company officials, they assured everything was okay, but money transfer stopped. When I visited the company website, I saw a message from February 8, saying: ‘Dear user, sorry for the inconvenience. If you are facing payment transaction issues, it’s because banks are updating their formats for the past 3-4 days’. The same message is displayed till today. That’s when I approached police along with my friend Amit Kumar, another victim.”
 
 An FIR was registered against the unidentified director of Profit Network and the company, under sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (used as genuine a forged document), 120B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC, and Section 66D of IT Act.
 
 “According to the plans offered, the company enrolled people with subscription money ranging from Rs 4,600, Rs 9,200, Rs 23,000, Rs 46,000 and Rs 1,23,050. The investors were given a user ID and password, and told they would be sent random URLs to their phones, and paid Rs 5 per like — with daily ceilings for each plan. They were also promised their incomes would increase if they brought in more subscribers within 15 days, thus building a pyramid of investors,” Vijay Kumar told TOI. This is exactly what Mitta’s Social Trade also offered.
 
 
