KOLKATA: With the preliminary factfinding report leaving a trail of unanswered questions in its wake,   (IISER) is likely to order a fresh inquiry into second-year student  's suicide.

 The second inquiry , likely to be carried out by a high-powered committee, will delve beyond the circumstances surrounding the   student's death and try to find the reasons which led to it. In the afternoon on May 1, Mandal was found hanging inside the second-floor washroom of Nivedita Hall, the hostel where he stayed with two roommates.
 
 Director R N Mukherjee said, “Once I receive the police report, it is likely that the institute may start an inquiry which will be conducted by a high-powered committee. This will go through the fact-finding committee's report and will interact with all stakeholders. The committee will go into the cause which may have triggered such a move.“
 
 “He (Mandal) had some anxiety-related issues. In 2016, he came to our health center to get help for depression.He was given medication but never reported back to the health center. The student community or the institute didn't know his latest mental health status,“ said a senior official.
 
 In the report sent to MHRD by registrar Joydeep Sil, he explained that Mandal wasn't under any pressure to outperform himself. He left his room around 2am in the middle of studying for an examination scheduled the next morning. His roommates thought he was going to the library .
 
 It wasn't until the examination began the next day that students realized Mandal was missing.
 
 Institute authorities started a search immediately and around 1.45pm, Mandal was found in an unused restroom in the new wing of the hostel.
 
 Mandal's sister Rekha alleged: “Sagar's laptop was not shut down and neither did he put the cap back on his pen.So he couldn't have decided to leave the room for long. Why didn't his roommates try to find him immediately?
 
 Why did they start looking for him after 12 hours? There was an examination the next day , which makes it all the more natural for his roommates to look for him when he didn't return at night.Moreover, Earth Science was among his favorite subjects and he would study it the most. He would never stay away from it for long.“
 
 She further said she suspected Mandal was abused.
 
 Police have questioned Mandal's roommates -two among them from the reserved category themselves.
 
