BAREILLY: Samajwadi Party leaders are incensed over the Yogi government's move to   bicycle tracks constructed during the Akhilesh Yadav regime in Uttar Pradesh. District president Subhlesh Yadav and state president Naresh Uttam said that the track in Bareilly was built to promote pollution-free and healthy mode of transportation in the city and there was no reason to demolish it.
 
  The Adityanath government was of the opinion that the cycle tracks needed to be demolished because they were causing traffic congestion. "We will demolish these bicycle tracks, which are unused and have caused traffic congestion. The demolition process will begin shortly," urban development minister Suresh Khanna had said, in his recent visit to Bareilly city.
  
  Speaking to TOI, district president of Samajwadi Party, Subhlesh Yadav said, “If the state government is so much concerned about the tracks lying unused, it should give orders to remove the encroachments which are the main reason why the cycle tracks are unable to serve their purpose. The government wants to demolish the track instead. We will protest on the track if they try to demolish it.”
  
  Samajwadi Party state president Naresh Uttam also asserted that the party would oppose the move. “The bicycle track, which was the ambitious project of former CM Akhilesh Yadav, was aimed at promoting eco-friendly means of transport and for conservation of environment. The tracks were constructed for the welfare of the public. There is no reason to demolish them and if the   it, we   in front of the bulldozers,” he said.
  
  In Bareilly, the bicycle track between Shyamatganj and Satellite was laid two years ago by Bareilly Development Authority (BDA). The 850 metre long and 2.75 metre wide track was constructed at a cost of Rs 6.48 crore, including the cost of widening the road. The cycle track failed to serve its purpose as it was soon occupied by makeshift shopkeepers and squatters while a major portion became an illegal parking zone for auto-rickshaws and motorcycles.
  
  In Lucknow and Noida, over 100 km of tracks had been built, with plans to build another 270 km in the rest of the state. In sectors 44 and 62 in Noida, 42 km of tracks were laid, while in Lucknow, tracks over 35 km were built at a cost of Rs 31 crore. Another 31 km, at a cost of Rs 34 crore, was nearing completion when the government fell. A bicycle highway was built in 2016 from Etawah to Agra, a distance of 207 km, at a cost of Rs 134 crore.
  
  Meanwhile, former CM Akhilesh Yadav tweeted his support for the   built during his tenure. On Monday, he posted, “Riding bicycles is good for everybody’s health and it promotes a pollution-free environment.”
