NAGPUR: Finally, the state government has constituted a nine-member committee to study impact of diversion of 1925.55 hectare dense forest area for major irrigation project proposed in the buffer zone of   (TATR).

 As there was stiff opposition from the board members a decision to form the committee was taken at the state board for wildlife (SBWL) meeting held on October 26. 
 
 The committee will be headed by the principal secretary (forest) Vikas Kharge and deputy conservator of forests (buffer) will be member-secretary.
 
 Other members of the committee include state’s chief wildlife warden Shree Bhagwan, TATR field director GP Garad, chief conservator of forest (CCF) of Chandrapur VS Shelke, representative of irrigation department and three top NGOs and SBWL members Deepak Apte, Kishor Rithe and Bandu Dhotre.
 
 The mandate of the committee includes studying the impact of Human dam on the tiger corridor, views of villagers and other issues. The committee has been asked to submit report by January 2017. However, the said committee has been set up despite a MoEFCC committee submitting a report against the project. 
 
 The four-member MoEFCC committee was set up in 2014 after intervention of forest minister   and the panel has already submitted a negative report about the project.
 
 “The Human dam project at the existing site will reduce the width of structural corridor by 90%, thereby influencing movement of animals, especially tigers, which will escalate the man-wildlife conflict in the area,” the NTCA report states.
 
 Yet, another committee has been set up ostensibly to see that a favourable stand is taken on the project. However, chief wildlife warden and wildlife conservationists have already reported that the dam will completely submerge the only corridor between   and Navegaon-Nagzira.
 
 Mungantiwar had expressed that earlier studies were conducted by experts who were not locals and did not have complete idea about the ground situation. Hence, a new committee of NGOs and officials from the region have been formed.
 
 
