PUNE: The   and   in the city stand divided on how the price cap on cardiac stents will benefit patients.

 While some medical practitioners that TOI contacted said the move will benefit a large number of patients, the others expressed fear that it may result in “reverse medical tourism”.
 
 “The decision is extremely significant and will benefit a large number of patients across the country. In over 90% of the cases, second generation cardiac stents are used that also include the ones approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (USFDA). The new generation stents are used only in 10% of the cases since these patients can afford them (since they currently do not come under the capped price range),” cardiologist Shirish Sathe, president of the Cardiological Society of India, Pune branch, said.
 
 Elaborating, he said, “The second generation imported stents that are mainly used in angioplasties are at par with the imported new generation ones as revealed by several studies. They (the new generation stents) only have some marginal advantages. Hence, the current uproar over the reverse medical tourism is uncalled for.”
 
 The doctors said the move will definitely bring down the cost of angioplasty and will not result in rise in bypass surgeries as rumoured. Cancer surgeon Dhananjay Kelkar, medical director of Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital, said, “The step taken by the government is definitely in patients’ interest as it will bring down the cost of angioplasty. To say that the move will result in a rise in bypass surgeries is shameful. However, for newer developments in stents, this rule must be relaxed with the permission from the FDA.”
 
 Chief cardiologist Purvez Grant, managing trustee of   Clinic, however, expressed displeasure over the government’s decision to cap prices of cardiac stents.
 
 He said with reduction in pricing, all imported stents that are of high quality have gone missing from the shelves of leading hospitals. “We are now only left with mediocre quality stents that have high incidence of re-blockage,” Grant said while adding that the move may force cardiologists to refer high risk cases for bypass, which they had been handling successfully by treating them with angioplasty.
 
 “Medical tourism, which was starting to take off in India, will take a serious hit by this wrong price fixing of stents and other disposables,” Grant said.
 
 George Eapen, director and chief executive officer of Jehangir hospital, said, “If a patient can afford a better-quality stent why not allow him to get what he/she desires. After all it is his/her heart and health.”
 
 Eapen further said overall the move a welcome step as more people can afford to get treated with cardiac stenting procedure. “However, international firms specializing in stents may skip India for now due to the price cap. But ultimately they will have to reduce the selling price to meet the government notification since India is a huge market for them,” he added.
 
 Sharing her view, Rekha Dubey, chief executive officer of Aditya Birla Memorial hospital, said, “The third and fourth generation stents that are polymer free and reduce the risk of stent thrombosis cannot be used now as they currently do not fit into the capped price list. Hence, patients who want to use high-end stents will be left with no other option but to fly abroad.”
 
 Interventional cardiologist C N Makhale said, “I have stopped using third and fourth generation stents as they do not fit into the capped price range of Rs 30,000. I am currently using second generation ones, but they are prone to breaking. On Thursday, two such stents broke midway the angioplasty procedure. I have communicated the same to the company officials here. If this continues, patients with more money at their disposal may just fly off to other countries to get treated, resulting in reverse medical tourism.”
 
 
