The dirty and unhygienic conditions at the beaches of the port city has Vizagiites fuming. They say on the one hand, the state government is spending crores of rupees on beach development while on the other, there is no maintenance. At the same time, they concede that the public too is to blame for their extreme lack of civic sense which results in the beaches getting littered to the point of ugliness. There is a need for stringent monitoring on the part of the administration and imposition of fine by the authorities on the public in order to ensure that the city beaches are kept clean, the residents point out.

 Lack of civic sense
 
 Vizag is endowed with naturally beautiful beaches. But, they have become eye sores because of human defiling. Though Vizag held the fifth position in   rankings in 2016, the picture on the beach front is anything but clean. Though the government has been spending huge amounts to develop beaches, the same spirit is absent in their upkeep. With woeful lack of civil sense on the part of visitors to the beach as well as inaction by the authorities concerned, the problem is worsening by the day. Establishments and industrial units also dump their effluents and waste into the sea. Every visitor should feel the responsibility to keep the beaches clean, particularly at the time of big events and festivals. And, at the same time, the authorities also should be ever vigilant to keep them litter-free.
 
 Maradapu Srinivasa Rao, Retired bank employee 
 
 Let’s do our duty
 
 We love our Vizag and especially its beaches. It is our home and our responsibility. Let us do our duty for our love. Let’s put a conscious effort and remind ourselves of our duty. Stop littering and put the trash in dustbins. Let us take an oath to treasure and protect the pride and beauty of our city beaches and respect the efforts of  . 
 
 D Sandeep Reddy, MD, Studyeuro Education Consultancy
 
 Irresponsible citizens
 
 In the recently concluded   conference on Destination Vizag, we showcased attractions like Thotlakonda Beach to the country’s top destination management companies. The city administration too highlighted its conscious efforts in keeping these attractions clean and tourism worthy. However, it is a shame that citizens are doing very little and leave such beautiful locations littered with garbage and waste. It is probably due to lack of education and responsibility.
 
 Aditya Malla
 
 Shift eateries 
 
 My suggestion is that all eateries should be shifted to the other side of the beach. Apart from this, GVMC should constantly review other pollutants from areas like port and industries and take quick and strong measures to keep the beaches clean.
 
 D Ravi, Retired corporate executive
 
 Create awareness 
 
 After events like IFR and Visakha Utsav, tourists to this place are increasing by leaps and bounds. The government is spending immensely on beach beautification. To maintain this environment, trash bins that were fixed throughout the stretch should be used for disposing of waste. Usage of plastic and others for packaging purpose should be reduced. Voluntarily, people should take part in creating awareness among their family and social circles about beach littering and its effects.
 
 Sindhu Veni
 
 Public should use dustbins
 
 When one enjoys an evening out on the beach, one should make sure that garbage is dumped only in dustbins. The public usually throws plastic wrappers all over the place, this despite the fact that every vendor has a dustbin attached to his cart. We must spread some awareness about the harmful effects of strewing garbage and must educate the people not to litter in public places and to keep our city and beaches clean and green.
 
 Bharat Chaitanya
 
 Impose fine on errant public
 
 We have beautiful beaches and there’s scope for further improving and beautifying them. It’s high time the GVMC employs policemen in plain clothes to monitor the littering and impose fines on the spot to those violating the rules.
 
 R Sekar, AGM Nalco 
 
