Trichy: In death as in life, a rag picker’s life seems to be as wretched as his vocation, as this incident illustrates. Murugesan, a 45-year-old toy seller who also sold picked rags, was forced to cremate his grandmother’s body in a public place after the local church as well as the villagers slammed the door on him.

 The incident happened at Nerusalakudi village near Vaaladi where he was staying with his grandmother Mariammal, 75. Early in the day, Murugesan found Mariammal motionless in his tent, apparently having succumbed to the inclement weather which has been causing difficulties for her in the past few days. Since he couldn’t afford to get the body to Velankanni, his native place, Murugesan first contacted the local church administration to bury the body. However, the church authorities flatly refused to allow the body onto their premises. 
 
 His next choice was the village   ground. To his disappointment, the villagers too rejected his plea to enable him to perform the funeral there. Left with no other option, a distraught Murugesan decided to cremate the body of the old woman in an open place near the village itself using dried leaves. He started setting fire to the body when suddenly the villagers noticed it and informed the Lalgudi police.
 
 The police rushed to the spot only to find the body almost burnt. However, they still doused the fire and recovered it. On inquiring with Murugesan, they found that he was a toy peddler from Velankanni. Accompanied by his grandmother, he used to sell the toys on a pushcart and also pick rags. The duo was staying in the area for the past 18 days and people were aware of them. Yet they didn’t allow the body to be cremated at the public crematorium. 
 
 “It was a natural death. Since he didn’t get permission to bury or cremate the body in the village crematorium, he cremated the body in an open place. We stopped it and arranged for proper funeral,” said police sub-inspector Rajeswari. While ruling out the possibility of any foul play in her death, the police also arranged for issuing a certificate in this regard from the village administrative officer (VAO).
 
 Trichy superintendent of police (SP) T Senthilkumar told TOI, “I am not aware of the incident. But the police always explore all avenues to help the people. Today's incident is one such case.” 
 
 
