BENGALURU: Shivappa Halambi and his younger brother Bheemappa Halambi, in their early 40s, have been working as daily wage labourers since February at a high-rise construction site near  , in Bengaluru.

 The duo, from Lingasugur taluk in   district, stay at a makeshift camp, with a bunch of other migrants from different parts of North  . They are paid Rs 500 per day and are hoping to return to their village, Adavibavi, sometime in June, provided they hear news of good spells of rain from their family.
 
 The Halambi brothers migrated to the city some time in March, following an unrelenting drought. This is the third summer in a row they have arrived in the city to work as construction labourers, to sustain their families back home, as their vil lage reels under extreme water and food scarcity.
 
 “It's been a double whammy for us. While a drought triggered hardships for people in our village, the acute water crisis is affecting our daily lives. The heat wave has only compounded our misery,“ said Bheemappa, reflecting the distress in their village.
 
 But the Halambi brothers are not alone. Many like them migrate in search of jobs from all 10 districts of North Karnataka, with the Hyderabad-Karnatak region comprising six districts which have tradi tionally lagged behind other regions in terms of social and economic development. The most preferred destinations are Bengaluru, Mangaluru, Mumbai, Pune, Goa and Hyderabad.
 
 “UK (Uttara Karnataka) labourers, as this migrant workforce is generally referred to, are in high demand in cities as they're known for their hard work and cheap wages. We generally find jobs for at least 5,000 people in various cities in a year," says Vijay Dattu, a leading labour contractor in Raichur.
  
 A testimony to this growing migration is the hordes of working hands boarding staterun transpor t buses of NWKRTC and NEKRTC from different bus stands. These days, private vehicles hired by   go around villages to transport labourers to different places. “Depending on the number of people travelling, we operate more trips,“ said a NWKRTC official at Hubballi.
 
 According to unofficial estimates, 5% to 10% of the population migrates every year from North Karnataka, even during normal monsoons, but this year the migration is higher by 2%-3%.The reason, officials say, is that drought, coupled with the drinking water crisis, is so widespread that farmers with large holdings of 5-25 acres have also joined migrants, having lost two crops to the drought.
 
 Besides, young people in villages on the banks of major rivers, including the Krishna, Bheema, Ghataprabha, Malaprabha and Tungabhadra have moved -a phenomenon unheard of till now. “Villages close to the Krishna used to have enough water for irrigation and household consumption, and agricultural workers had ample opportunities to make a living with people using pump sets to lift water from the river to irrigate thousands of acres. But the situation has changed completely as a result of three consecutive years of drought which have completely arrested water flow into the Almatti dam for the first time,“ said Raghavendra P, an agriculture officer in Vijayapura.
 
 
