CHANDIGARH: Two-and-a-half years after then financial commissioner, revenue, (FCR)   cancelled   (MCG)’s ownership of 464 acre land, worth Rs 3,000 crore, in  , the   has sought to know “if Malik was authorized to pass that order”.

 As per the documents accessed by TOI, Haryana urban local bodies director has asked the revenue department to clarify “Whether Malik was competent to decide cases under the Punjab Land Revenue (PLR) Act for district Gurgaon during August-September 2014.”
 
 The letter from the office local bodies director seeking clarification was sent on February 28, 2017, to the additional chief secretary of revenue and disaster management department. The department has sought details of the work distribution order of chief secretary during that time. Malik had set aside the land mutation No. 3110 in favour MCG on September 15, 2014.
 
 The department has asked to supply the information immediately so that the MCG may avail “appropriate remedy” against the order passed by Malik and subsequent decision by another FCR S S Dhillon on October 21, 2015, upholding it. Sources added that if Malik’s order is found ‘Coram Non Judice’ (order without jurisdiction), MCG may challenge it before the high court.
 
 Sources claimed that the clarification was sought after the department had prima facie found Malik’s order without jurisdiction because as per the work distribution order of the chief secretary, he was not assigned to decide the cases related to district Gurgaon at that time.
 
 In an earlier communications sent to MCG on February 20, 2017, the urban local bodies department had also raised the issue as to why the objection regarding Malik’s jurisdiction was not taken before Dhillon after he was allocated the case for adjudication.
 
 Malik was posted as FCR on August 1, 2014. Though, Gurgaon district was under the jurisdiction of another IAS officer Surina Rajan, Malik entertained a revision petition filed by Rathore Promoters and others seeking cancellation of mutation of land in favour of MCG.
 
 Malik decided the revision petition in favour of these petitioners on September 15, 2014. On that day, shortly after MCG had filed its reply before him, Malik passed a 41-page order against the civil body.
 
 Acting on a review application of MCG, another FCR, Rajan, stayed Malik’s orders on October 16, 2014, and in her interim orders also directed officials not to alter the ownership of MCG from the records.
 
 After Rajan, the case was shifted to another FCR Ankur Gupta, who after some hearings, recused himself on July 14, 2015, from the case citing “personal reasons”.
 
 Finally, chief secretary D S Dhesi assigned the matter to Dhillon, FCR for Sirsa district cases. On October 21, 2015, he dismissed the review application and upheld Malik’s order.
 
 
 
 
 As the budget session of the state assembly is going on, the issue is likely to rock the state assembly on Tuesday and chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar may address the House in response to the calling attention motion. Around 464 acres of prime land, worth Rs 3,000 crore, in Gwal Pahari area of Gurgaon is mired in labyrinth of pending suits before various courts for the past around four decades.
 
