PATNA: Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s effusive praise for CM   on Thursday at a function to celebrate the 350th Prakashotsava of   sent out unambiguous signals to the state BJP that it needed to go for immediate course correction on its no-holds-barred criticism of him (read Nitish), feel observers.

 PM Modi referred to his “personal knowledge about CM Nitish’s active engagement” with the nitty-gritty of the work that went behind organizing the mega event, adding that it was “heart touching.” He also praised Nitish for imposing total prohibition in Bihar “to save future generations of the state.”
 
 Furthermore, the PM said it was also his personal knowledge as to “how difficult it is to bring about social change and reorient the old mores of people,” maintaining that it could be an inspiration for other states in the country.
 
 Incidentally, in his address, CM Nitish had referred to the efforts made by PM Modi to successfully implement the already existing prohibition law in his home state Gujarat when he was its CM for 12 years. Curiously, the Bihar BJP has paid fulsome praise on total prohibition in the state, but has been hyper critical of Nitish calling the Act “draconian” for some of its provisions. 
 
 As if not to be left wanting in the course correction, former deputy CM cum senior functionary from the state BJP brass, Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo), responded immediately and the carping criticism of CM Nitish was missing from what he said.
 
 “The way CM Nitish Kumar organized the mega event, it has led to the branding of the state. The Sikh devotees who came to Patna to participate in the function would return with ‘achchhi chhavi (good image)’ of Bihar embossed on their mind,” SuMo said.
 
 SuMo, who ladles out vitriol and carping criticism of CM Nitish and the three-party   government that he leads almost on daily basis, also said the Centre, along with its tourism and railway ministry, had made equal contributions to the efforts made by CM Nitish to make the mega event a “grand success”. 
 
 The central BJP’s insistence on course correction by the Bihar BJP with regard to criticism of CM Nitish is hinged on the fact that the latter has supported note ban which both PM Modi and BJP national president Amit Shah earlier took note of and hailed him.
 
 Further, CM Nitish, who is JD(U) national president, has also not yet reviewed the party’s support to ‘notebandi’ and, instead, has kept it pending. Also, the JD(U) would contest assembly elections in UP, Punjab and Manipur and would definitely go for an alliance, but with whom? One guess is as good as another, say the observers. 
 
