PANAJI: The Goa state pollution control board (GSPCB) has informed the high court of Bombay at Goa that half the ambient air quality monitoring (AAQM) stations show that the air pollution in   exceeds the permissible limit due to  .

 The GPSCB reply came on a direction of the high court to submit a report regarding the issue. The high court had taken suo motu cognisance of pollution caused due to mining.
 
 A senior GSPCB officer said they have informed the court that the board cannot give consent to operate to mine for extraction as it does not monitor pollution level at mines.
 
 Mining companies have requested that transportation may be stopped but they be allowed to carry out extraction.
 
 GSPCB, which filed the report in the high court, said that of the 14 AAQM stations, seven captive locations showed exceedances in PM10 levels. The balance seven stations indicated particulate matter (PM) levels within permissible limit.
 
 The inspection team studied the transportation route of the 13 mines in the Sonshi cluster that have been identified as transporting along the Sonshi-Navelim-Amona, Maina, Sinari and Alcon routes.
 
 The report also states that of the 14 AAQM stations, three captive locations showed exceedances in PM2.5 levels, while the balance 11 stations indicated particulate matter (PM) levels within permissible limit. 
 
 PM 2.5 level is more harmful than PM10 level.
 
 Recently, the board had decided to continue to keep in abeyance the consent to operate of 12 mining companies at Sonshi. The Board had also decided to increase AAQM stations across the state’s mining belt by nine.
 
 Mining companies had approached the Indian School of Mining (ISM) for suggestions to control and monitor ambient air quality in the mining belt. ISM has submitted its report to board, in which it has suggested short-term, medium-term and long-term solutions, including a new transportation route for iron   at the Sonshi cluster. 
 
 The dusty hamlet came into focus after 45 villagers were arrested by the police for stopping mining transportation on grounds of pollution after petitions made by them didn't evoke any response from government authorities.
 
 Due to mining transportation, the village of Sonshi is covered in red dust, and not only is the air there polluted, but the water is also contaminated.
 
