Amal Neerad’s latest directorial ‘Comrade in America,’ starring  , is all set to hit screens on May 5, Friday. Yet another film of the recent times that is shot in Kochi’s much-loved Maharajas College and abroad, the movie offers many interesting reasons for Dulquer fans to check it out just as it hit theaters. Here’s why you should take out some time to catch the DQ movie, which is a political romantic comedy.

 
  
 DQ’s dad Mammootty has many popular achayan characters to his credit and this is the film that will prove whether the actor too can carry it off with ease. He plays a Pala-based youngster named Aji Mathew, and the recently released teaser of the movie shows him effortlessly handling some ‘achayan slang.’ In a simple mundu and shirt, the actor looked every bit a cool achayan, now, let’s see how he pulls it off on screen, with his antics.
  
 
  
 Yes, it’s their first project together and the die-hard fans of both the actor and director can’t wait to see how both of their talents would translate into a magical movie on May 5. Moreover, it’s been three years since the director’s last movie hit screens, with his previous being ‘Iyobinte Pusthakam.’ 
  
 
 
 The movie has three songs by the National Award winner, out of which two are already out. ‘Kannil Kannil’ by Haricharan and ‘Vaanam Thilathilakkanu’ sung by Dulquer Salmaan himself have already won the hearts of Mollywood. Now, what would be that third song like? We will have to watch the film and find out! 
  
 
 
 Dulquer’s second movie ‘ABCD’ was shot in the US and this is his next movie, that has the States as its location. A few parts of the film are also shot in Mexico, and the actor had shared quite a few interesting pics from the location on his social media page, during the shoot. 
  
 
 
 After Nivin Pauly’s ‘Sakhavu,’ in which he played a double-role, both of which were comrades, Dulquer too is joining the bandwagon with this project. Will he out-charm Tovino Thomas who played a sakhavu in ‘Oru Mexican Aparatha,’ and Nivin? Watch the film and decide! 
 
