BHOPAL: Poor management of water bodies and resources resulting in erratic water supply continued to add to the woes of residents in the state capital on Saturday. In many areas, the problem has compounded due to power outage.

  (BMC) officials maintained that water supply is normal. “The on-going heatwave has increased average demand for water. Our tankers and resources are stretched,” said a civic body official. Average working of tankers supplying was extended till late in the night, he added.
 
 “BMC actions are reactionary. They do not have a plan to tackle the crisis,” said Shanti Singh, a resident of Kolar. The water crisis is likely to continue in the area. There is no word on laying of new pipeline. Much of Kolar population is dependent on bore wells or supply from water tankers. Pre-empting a break in regular water supply is also adding to the crisis.
 
 “The water is supplied for about an hour. However, our house is located at the very end of the supply line. Since others use motors to draw water, pressure in the line drops. We have complained to the BMC about the issue, but there is no solution in sight,” said  , a resident of  .
 
 For some like Dharmesh, water woes mean missing work. “I took half a day’s leave to store and fill water. Generally, the tank fills during regular suplly. However, since the supply is erratic, I have to ensure water is available,” he said. For a population of over 20 lakh, BMC has just about 100 water tankers. Recently, mayor Alok Sharma announced that zone and ward officials have been alerted to take measures to deal with the  . 
 
 “For each ward, officials have been instructed to maintain at least two water supply tankers to cater to the situation. New vehicles will be purchase to reduce the reliance on private suppliers,” said Sharma. BMC mayor’s announcement cannot be implemented on the ground as civic body has 94 water supply vehicles for 85 wards. 
 
 BMC internal report cites that at least 16 of the 85 wards are facing severe shortage of water. It’s not just the slums area, people living in affluent housing complexes and bungalows are shelling out for water. 10% of Bhopal’s water supply needs are still met by tube wells, hand pumps and other alternatives. Bore wells up to 450 metres deep have gone dry in many areas. With many bore wells dry, some private water suppliers are sourcing water from   filling stations.
 
 
