 JD(U)-RJD ties have entered a tense terrain amid growing indications that   chief minister   is under pressure to avoid the embarrassment of having to defend or ignore the corruption charges against his deputy   during the assembly session beginning on Friday.
 
  Sources in JD(U) said Kumar, who prides his anti-corruption credentials, will be loath to defend his deputy if BJP, as is likely, launches protests on the floor of the assembly to demand the resignation of Tejashwi who has not yet provided an explanation for the circumstances in which he ended up being the owner of properties worth hundreds of crores without having a known source of income.
  
  “Nitishji has perhaps never faced such an embarrassing situation in his entire political career when his integrity and clean image is being questioned,” JD(U) secretary general   told TOI as suspense mounted in Patna about the options Nitish can use to head off the threat to his image.
  
  Tyagi made it clear that the statements so far from Tejashwi and other senior   leaders had not been satisfactory. “We don’t want the grand alliance government to turn into UPA-2,” Tyagi said, a clear reference to the damage the Congress-led UPA suffered because of the failure of former PM Manmohan Singh to rein in allegedly corrupt members of his cabinet.
  
  The JD(U) secretary general also expressed disappointment with Congress for not endorsing Nitish’s demand for Tejashwi to come clean on the charges levelled by both CBI and ED. “Congress too is not mounting pressure on RJD on Tejashwi’s issue as it thinks RJD is more trustworthy,” Tyagi said, his lament indicating that Rahul Gandhi and Nitish were not on the same page when they discussed the deputy chief minister’s continuation in the ‘secular’ coalition.
  
  In fact, a Congress tilt towards RJD, as indicated by Tyagi, can only intensify the gathering speculation about realignment of actors with Lalu Prasad possibly reaching out to former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi, who is sullen with Nitish for engineering his ouster.
  
  Things seem set to hot up on Wednesday when legislators of both RJD and JD(U) will meet to stake out their positions. RJD, for its part, refused to relent on its stand that Tejashwi was the victim of a “political conspiracy” and did not need to resign. Party’s chief spokesperson Shakti Singh Yadav said, “We are not concerned whether JD(U) is satisfied or not with the explanation given by Tejashwi so far on corruption charges. But JD(U) never asked for Tejashwi’s resignation till date. It is the demand of BJP.”
