JAIPUR: Protests following the   in a private hospital a day earlier took an ugly turn on Saturday.

 The   (OP) ward remained closed after the attack on a doctor even as   came out in support of the patient’s family and downed shutters of shops in the area.
 
 The protest took place after a patient,  , died while undergoing treatment at Bansal Hospital. His attendants blamed medical negligence for his death.
 
 Dr Ajay Bansal, the owner of the hospital where Saini died on Friday afternoon, was attacked by protestors, resulting in private hospitals shutting the OP departments on Saturday.
 
 The residents of   along with businessmen and shopkeepers came in support of Saini’s son Virendra Saini, who demanded immediate sealing of the hospital and the arrest of Dr Bansal.
 
 The attendants alleged that the police had not shared documents related to the treatment of the patient.
 
 Saini’s neighbour Krishan Kumar said, “We have submitted a memorandum to chief minister demanding the immediate arrest of Dr Bansal on charges of murder. Also, we have demanded compensation for the family.”
 
 “Saini was a person who helped others. He offered water to passersby and kept water campers to beat the scorching heat. It’s because of his selfless contribution to the society that the residents of Barkat Nagar came out in support and businessmen of the area kept their shops closed,” Kumar said.
 
 However, the doctors’ fraternity condemned the attack on Dr Bansal. The representatives of private hospitals and government doctors too extended their support to Dr Bansal.
 
 “Any kind of attack on doctors is unacceptable. If attendants have any complaints regarding medical negligence, there is a peaceful and legal process for protesting against it,” Dr Sarvesh Joshi, secretary, Jaipur Medical Association (JMA), said.
 
 Dr Joshi said that the hospitals would remain closed and only emergency units would remain open on Sunday. He said that if their demands were not met, they would go on strike.
 
 The Rajasthan Medical College Teachers’ Association (RMCTA) too has threatened to take the extreme step if such incidents of violence against doctors were not stopped.
 
 RMCTA secretary Dhananjai Agarwal said, “We condemn the attack on doctors.” Doctors from different private hospitals gathered at JMA on Saturday. They met the Jaipur police commissioner and demanded strict measures to be taken to prevent such attacks in future. Representatives also met BJP state president Ashok Parnami.
 
 The police are investigating the matter. The post-mortem of Ratanlal Saini was also conducted on Saturday. 
 
 Police have not arrested anyone in the case so far. Jyoti Nagar police officials said that they have registered FIRs by doctors and relatives of the patient.
 
