Panaji: The Regional Plan (RP) 2021, as a mixed bag of positive concepts and some errors, has been shelved for years. A few outline development plans (ODPs) have been hastily floated, however, raising fears of more chaos in congested urban areas. Activists and environmentalists allege that ODPs loaded with higher floor area ratio (FAR), drawn up by planning and development authorities (PDAs) for Panaji, Mapusa, Margao, Mormugao and other areas, subvert the planning process and violate the “One Goa, One Plan” vision. Most ODPs were put in the public domain a few months before the election, evoking criticism and suspicion. An increase in FAR, contrary to norms for holistic and participatory planning and environment and heritage conservation, is likely to boost the growth of high-rise buildings in pockets. Activists have decried it as unconnected planning, comprising wrongly of one RP and several ODPs.  “Till date, ODPs are treated as if the rules of environment do not apply, still occupying a space of privilege outside the RP. Steering committees formed by PDAs have clearly granted favours on individual requests at the cost of public interest,” Goa Bachao Abhiyan (GBA) secretary, Reboni Saha, says. Most of Goa’s towns were developed during the Portuguese era to cater to the requirements of small populations. Residential areas were, therefore, linked by narrow roads. Continuing haphazard growth has added to typical urban problems: parking woes, congestion and adverse impacts on the heritage character of architecture that has an old world charm. The ODP for Margao was one that generated intense heat and controversy. “It appears to have been prepared mostly with inputs from builders, not holistically. The authorities’ resolve to go ahead at any cost raised suspicions of corruption. The ODP contains many flaws which will result in traffic chaos, pressure on inadequate infrastructure and environmental degradation,” United Goans Foundation (UGF), an NGO, stated. Agricultural, tenanted lands and no development zones (NDZ) have been shown as settlement or commercial zones. The steep NDZ area of Moti Dongor, where shanties have proliferated, largely belongs to the Margao comunidade and has been marked as settlement zone.  “An NDZ of 0-100m along River Sal, comunidade lands, a buffer zone for the Konkan Railway, sewerage networks and other details are not shown in Margao’s ODP,” UGF president Aashish Kamat, said. In Panaji, the introduction of super-buildings styled as special settlement (SPS) and special commercial (SPC) of 200 and 300 FAR respectively, in place of the earlier 100 and 200 FAR, has drawn sharp reactions from activists and organizations. At 300 FAR, the SPC permits construction of high-rise buildings with more than ten storeys on small 500sq m plots, with inadequate space for vehicular ramps and turning radii for cars. “The issue of creating SPS and SPC zones is good in principle, but the methodology of identifying blocks requires to be thought of from a holistic viewpoint,” Indian Institute of Architects (IIA), Goa chapter, stated. Citizens in Mapusa are worried as a large parcel of agricultural land near Bodgeshwar temple is proposed to be converted for housing and commercial use. “Flooding here is inevitable if a proper drainage network is not worked out,” a citizen said. Activists point to a lack of planning-level studies and a piecemeal approach, demanding that ODPs be scrapped. “As per provisions of the TCP Act, 1974, the ODP has to be prepared with inputs from various departments connected to agricultural lands, CRZ areas, open spaces and hilly lands, among others. But most plans bypass these requirements,” Kamat said.