Just minutes after putting out a graphic note on Facebook in which he accused his wife and her family of mental and physical harassment, 35-year-old Marathi film producer   committed suicide by allegedly consuming poison in a hotel room in Pune on Sunday. In his chilling virtual ‘suicide’ note, the ' ' producer revealed that he was taking this extreme step because of personal problems and blamed his wife for the decision. This shocking incident comes just a month after the death of 24-year-old student Arjun Bharadwaj, who live-streamed a tutorial video on ‘how to commit suicide’ before jumping off the 19th floor of a hotel in  . These two instances are just part of a long list of incidents where people have used social media to document their last moments. In April, Sonepat techie   hung himself from a ceiling fan at home and live-streamed the act on his social media page. Last year, Varun Malik, a Delhi-based software engineer, allegedly tried to commit suicide after posting notes on Facebook before he was rescued by the police.

 
 Suicide is a lonely affair, so the thought of Atul Tapkir detailing the last few hours of his life on the internet has shocked even those who knew him well. Ankur Kakatkar, director of Dhol Tashe, who was close to Atul, shares, “I am shocked that he had reached such a level of frustration that he accumulated all his emotions and wrote a suicide note on social media. Think about it, if you can manage to put out your last thoughts on an online platform, how prepared you must be to die!” He also blames people’s dependence on the internet. “The very fact that he couldn’t speak to a real friend and had to put this up on a virtual platform tells us how there was no one he could speak to in his time of need. The problem with us is that we have been introduced to the internet, but we have not been educated on how to use it. We have become so dependent on social media that real conversations have lost meaning.”
 
 
 Marathi actor Abhijeet Khandkekar, who has worked with Atul, believes social media is an open platform where anybody can put up their thoughts, which the world can read. “If Atul had written his problems on a piece of paper, no one would have bothered to follow the case. The fact that he posted it on social media has given this issue momentum and has forced people to talk about it. I feel social media is a place where you can reach out to several people at one go. Maybe he wanted his story to reach as many people as possible.” Like Abhijeet, clinical psychologist Seema Hingorrany believes that such acts let you connect to a larger number of people. “People who put up suicidal posts are in the last stage of depression. They want to make the world understand that they took this step, but they are not cowards. It’s like a last dramatic gesture. This is the anger they have been harbouring against everyone. Many a time, they believe that if they make their suicide note public by posting it on social media, they will get ‘justice’ — even if the person named in the note is not punished by the law, they will be put on trial by society. In Atul’s case, maybe he wanted to punish his wife. It’s called victimisation — you victimise yourself and cry for help. Depression is a very serious issue and yet, people in   are not taking help because of the stigma attached to it.” 
 
 
 
 Neeta Phadke, Senior Police Inspector, Cyber Police Station, BKC, tells BT that it’s impossible for authorities to monitor social media users. “The police is helpless in situations like these. What can we do if people decide to live-stream videos of their deaths or put up suicidal posts on social media? Everyone has the right to use social media, but unfortunately, people misuse it. Atul should have gone to the police station and filed a complaint instead of taking this drastic step.”
 
 However, there have been cases where the police have been able to prevent suicides following alerts on social media. In October 2016, someone had posted a photo of a man walking on the Bandra-Worli Sea Link. When cops reached the spot, they realised that he was contemplating suicide and talked him out of it.
 
 
 
 The next time you see a post on Facebook from a friend that worries you, you can reach out to them discreetly. You can also alert mental health professionals using a new feature on the social networking site that helps them get access to counselling services. Developed in collaboration with mental health organisations like AASRA and Live Love Laugh Foundation, these tools are available in both English and Hindi.
 
 
