NAGPUR: The Joint Entrance Examination (JEE-Main) offline paper on Sunday did not trouble students too much, especially those who stuck to   books. The online tests will be conducted on April 8 and 9. 

 Dilip Vaidya, director (Academics) at ICAD SL said, “Overall paper appears to be well balanced with respect to topics from XI-XII. Fortunately, there are no mistakes or ambiguous questions. However, there are the disputes regarding answers of few questions. Those students who have mastered the technique of skipping; cross-checking are likely to get doubly rewarded. There were almost no questions which could be solved by so called ‘tricks’. Also students, who have studied state board and NCERT books sincerely, should have no difficulty in reaching 35-40% level.” 
 
 Abhishek Bansal, regional head of Resonance said, “The paper was of moderate level. Questions were asked from all topics covering all subjects. The mathematics paper was easy as per the analysis while physics and chemistry paper were average.” Rajnikant Bondre, chairman, Sneha Classes said, “The paper was very easy. The trend is pointing towards not ignoring the board syllabus while preparing for this exam.” 
 
 Aakash Chaudhry, director of   said, “Many of the questions in the paper were straight forward and could be solved by a student who has been preparing sincerely for the exam. In Physics paper, overall questions were on easier side and straight forward as compared to last year.”
 
 Rajshekhar Ratrey, VP (Educational Content) at Toppr.com said, “The weightage of marks tilted towards Std XII syllabus with 19 questions, while 11 questions were picked from the Std XI syllabus. Constitutionally, the paper had 11 questions from Mechanics, 8 questions from  , 3 questions from Thermodynamics and Kinetic Theory, 2 from Optics and Wave Optics – which was a surprise for most – and 6 questions from Modern Physics and Nuclear Physics.”
 
 Sahil Raipurkar, a   candidate said, “Overall the exam was fine but the maths paper was little tough than the chemistry and physics.” Another candidate Aditya Hadas said, “JEE main paper was not so tough neither too easy but according to me the marks distribution in Chemistry paper as compared to Maths and Physics were not so proper. And Chemistry paper was set easy than Maths and Physics.” Atharva Deo, w ho appeared for the exam on Sunday said, “Chemistry was easy as compared to Physics and Maths.”
 
