Rajkot: Two sisters, one of them doing an MBA were among four persons arrested for scripting a loot story to con their widowed sister-in-law of Rs 10 lakh on Wednesday. 

 Police cracked the crime within hours with the help of gaping loopholes in the statements that the youngsters gave the cops. Those arrested were   Rathod, the MBA student of Marwari College, her sister Renuka, her boyfriend Mohit Raithatta and Chandresh alias Bhuro Valand, a resident of Hudco quarters. Police is also on the lookout for another accomplice Rohit Patel, a resident of Somnath Society. 
 
 Dimple was a spendthrift and was in dire need of money. So, she and Mohit decided to cheat her sister-in-law Ratna Rathod (35) after knowing that the latter had recently got Rs 10 lakh by selling a plot of land. They convinced Ratna not to keep the cash in the bank and instead lend it at 5% interest rate, which would give her an income of Rs 50,000 a month. Ratna was lured by the suggestion and according to their advice, withdrew Rs 8 lakh from the bank on Wednesday. 
 
 “According to the plan, they decided to carry out the loot near an ATM in Laxmiwadi area. The trio went in Mohit’s car to the ATM saying that he wanted to withdraw Rs 1 lakh from the ATM. While waiting outside the car, Dimple took the bag containing cash from Ratna and immediately Chandresh came on a bike and snatched the bag from her hand. Dimple raised an alarm and tried to act as if she was shaken,” Harshad Patel, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), crime branch.
 
 Dimple and others approached the police in the evening, some three hours after the crime. This itself raised the first doubt about the loot. Mohit’s statement that he wanted to withdraw Rs 1lakh from the ATM strengthened their suspicion. Police then grilled Dimple and she finally confessed to have cooked up the loot story. 
 
 Hitesh Gadhvi, police inspector at the crime branch, said that Dimple had earlier lent Rs 40,000 to Ratna but the latter was delaying in repaying the amount. “They often had quarrels over the issue and Dimple then decided to cheat her of Rs 10 lakh,” he said. Renuka’s estranged husband  , a notorious thief involved in 104 thefts, was roped in to execute the plan. 
 
 
