Rajkot: Patidar Anamat Andolan Samiti (PAAS) convener Hardik Patel lashed out at the BJP government in the state for not acting on the promises that it had made a day ago after meeting with over 200 community members.

 Talking to media persons in Rajkot’s Bhaktinagar, Hardik said that the promises that deputy chief minister Nitin Patel made on Tuesday were fake.
 
 “Promises made by Nitinbhai, before 200 community members, have not been approved by the cabinet. The cabinet has said that that government can do it but has not clarified on the provisions and how they plan to go about implementing it. What they have done seems more like election-based promises,” said Hardik.
 
 He said what the deputy CM said after the cabinet meeting was already announced by former CM Anandiben Patel. Hardik further said that their quota agitation would continue and will be intensified if needed. “The party which grants reservation to Patidars will stay in power,” claimed Hardik, who left for Kalavad in Jamnagar to address a public meeting there.
 
 Patidars, who constitute around 13% of the state’s population were promised ‘Unreserved Class Welfare Commission’ on the lines of other community-based welfare boards and corporations after a three-hour meeting with the state government team headed by deputy chief minister Nitin Patel. At the meeting, the government held talks with Patidar leaders representing religious and social institutions, including Hardik. 
 
 Patel had further said that the commission will be given funds to finance education, business, overseas education and monetary assistance to the non-reserved castes.
 
 A judicial inquiry commission was formed to investigate grievances of the Patidar community regarding alleged police excesses. “Action will be taken on the basis of the probe report,” the deputy CM had said on Tuesday.
 
 Patel had assured that jobs in the cooperative sector will be given to kin of those who died during the Patidar quota agitation. He had however avoided accepting the Patidars’ demand of Rs 40 lakh compensation to the kin of those killed in police action.
 
 
