KOCHI: Touching stories including women's oppression and Dalit-Muslim carnage are presented in a newly installed 360° virtual reality show by award-winning filmmaker   at the ongoing third edition of the   (KMB). 

 Four short documentary films by independent filmmakers are being shown in the immersive experience set-up by Gandhi's 'ElseVR' initiative at the architectural pavilion in  . ElseVR is a platform by Memesys Culture Lab - founded by the Ship of Theseus director - that combines virtual reality, non-fiction filmmaking and journalism.
 
 The documentaries that span approximately 6-10 minutes each cover a range of pressing issues. They include India's first VR film, 'Right to Pray', which deals with the ban on women's entry at   temple, 'Caste is not a Rumour', which highlights the story of Dalits and Muslims being beaten up by Gaurakshaks, 'When Land is lost, do we eat Coal?' that narrates the story of 24 million adivasis who were displaced due to coal mining activities in Chattisgarh, and 'Submerged' which moves through the devastated landscape and vulnerable villagers in Bihar after last year's torrential floods.
 
 "The ability and the desire to transmit knowhow, intention, and insight to others around us have co-evolved with humanity itself. Mixed reality is a huge milestone in that human project of record keeping, perspective sharing, empathizing, and merging with the 'other', a project that began with the first cave painting, or even earlier," Gandhi said.
 
 To facilitate this immersion, the ElseVR booth has a pair of virtual reality headsets attached to cell phones that screen the films via an app. 
 
 The experience allows viewers to not only watch but empathize with the characters in the stories through the 360° storytelling method that will redefine the relationship between story and audience.
 
 "What virtual reality does is it really allows the viewer to enter into the story. You associate with the issues more empathetically than the news. You connect to the people and issues far deeper in VR than in two dimensions," said  , an ElseVR team member.
 
 The ElseVR show will run till the conclusion of KMB 2016 on March 29.
 
