PANAJI: Chief minister   said there was nothing unethical about cobbling up numbers for a coalition when BJP had secured only 13 seats in the 40-member House.

 “There’s nothing unethical about it (the BJP move). The word ‘unethical’ comes in the picture when you indulge in horse-trading. We have not done it,” Parrikar told TOI after winning the trust vote on Thursday.
 
 “To form a coalition in a hung assembly is the necessity of democracy. It is the Congress party’s bad luck that nobody is ready to trust it. First, it should introspect, because it was not even able to decide on a leader,” Parrikar said, adding that he got involved in government formation only at the instance of regional parties. 
 
 “I never tried to form the government with 13 seats. Support came from the   (MGP and GFP), which maintained that they were ready to lend support and form the government if I returned. We proceeded accordingly after getting approval from the BJP parliamentary board. So, it was the other way around,” the chief minister explained.
 
 Parrikar went on to say that GFP’s  , in an interview to a local TV channel three days before the results, had made it clear that he wouldn’t back the Congress and would not mind supporting him as CM. “Hence, the manner in which events unfolded didn’t come as a surprise. It was along expected lines,” he said. 
 
 The chief minister denied that the BJP was negatively perceived among the people and refused to believe that members of the general public have expressed resentment over how events have panned out on Goa’s political chessboard. 
 
 “I don’t think that there is a negative perception among the people. It is only in the media. People have welcomed this government. While we did not get the numbers, we got 34.5% of the vote share whereas Congress got 28%,” Parrikar said.
 
 The former defence minister said he would manage to run the government without any major problems despite the ideological differences of its coalition partners. He said the focus would be on development and hence, ideologies would not matter.
 
 “All of us want Goa to be better. We want it to get better infrastructure and become a golden Goa. That is what we will provide,” he said.
 
