Brian Chesky, co-founder and CEO of online home-sharing marketplace Airbnb, started off as a designer-turned-cereals seller, before revolutionisng the global hospitality business. He isn't done yet. Named one of America's richest entrepreneurs under 40, the 36-year-old with 16-inch biceps and an Indian girlfriend,  , wants the $30 billion startup to be one-stop shop for all your travel experiences. Excerpts:

 
 
 It started as a home-sharing company. Five years from now, you will come to Airbnb for all of your travel needs. It will become a one-stop shop.One day, people from all over the world are going to say , “I want to take a trip somewhere; I want to have an experience; I like food; I like this kind of dancing; I love that movie.“ And they are going to come to Airbnb.
 
 
 
 I always do. Jeff Bezos, Mark Zuckerberg, Sheryl Sandberg -they have all been people who have been helpful.   is an investor in the company. I have learnt a lot about leadership from them.Mark taught me the importance of hiring great executives. Bezos taught me the importance of having an incredibly operationally efficient, well-run company .
 
 
 
 
 It depends on the market.You have to understand what business you're in. Are you part of a global network business or are you a local network business? With Airbnb's perspective, we are a global travel network. If you live in India and you want to travel outside, you're probably not using an Indian website. And, if an Indian website also wants to compete outside India with us, then they are going to be -if they are behind us -at a disadvantage because we are a global network. The more you have local network effects, the more you could compete.The next great companies can come from anywhere. It's just that those companies need to be prepared to become global companies, not local or national companies.
 
 
 
 Hotel chains started doing this a long time ago. If you can be asset light, it allows you to have a bigger scale and a larger network. People are realizing there is a lot of leverage and power in communities. What we are doing is not making something but empowering somebody else. But there is such huge human capital, leveraging entrepreneurs can get you the scale qu ickly and often make a much bigger impact in the world.
 
 
 
 When I came to Silicon Valley, a couple of investors said that we are concerned that you're not an engineer, you are not a PhD dropout from Stanford. It's not been a problem but an advantage. Designers don't focus on how things look, necessarily.They focus on how things work. And so what we designed was an entire reputation system. Before Airbnb, there weren't many people doing what we did. And to get that level of density , you had to solve the trust problem. How do you get people from 191 co untries trusting the most intimate of other people's spaces in almost every country in the world? This was a design and trust problem, first and foremost.
 
 
 
 I've been a critic of the travel ban but business hasn't changed for us so far. We are going to continue to do what we believe in. We believe that you should be able to go to any country , any community and any neighbourhood in the world and be able to belong to that community .
 
 
 
 Many people like to retell the stories if they were smart and they had this brilliant idea. The truth is all of us struggle for a long time. You don't need so much money to start a company. You just need an incredible amount of persistence and hard work.
 
