LUCKNOW: When   saw Congress candidate Abdul   highlighting Akhilesh Yadav's achievements, he was, for a moment, confused. On his jan-sampark (public meeting) tour, Khan' supporters carry a variety of publicity material--a bicycle with a poster of Akhilesh, banners of SP leaders, Dimple Yadav, Mulayam Singh Yadav, Azam Khan besides Congress leaders   and others. In sharp contrast, when SP candidate from Lucknow Central Ravidas Mehrotra walks on the streets for canvassing, Akhilesh is hardly visible.

 “It's hilarious to see a Congress candidate seeking votes in the name of Akhilesh. If it's an alliance between SP and Congress, why have the two parties pitted their candidates against each other,“ said Pandey, a lecturer, resident of Jopling road. He added that the confusion will lead to split in votes and eventually benefit the BJP.
 
 Despite the seat-sharing pact, the two contestants have led to confusion among the voters. Narhi resident Rizwana Husain, who runs a boutique, is equally unsure of who to vote for. “There is no clarity on whether SP and Congress candidates are contesting against each other or will be counted together since it's an alliance," said Husain, adding, there was also news that Maroof Khan has withdrawn his candidature, which led to more confusion.
 
 A retired central government employee and Model House resident Tarun Sinha said the situation in his constituency (Lucknow Central) is ironical. “In a historic roadshow that began from GPO (which comes under Lucknow Central), Congress vice-president   as well as SP national president Akhilesh Yadav addressed people. It's the same constituency of Lucknow, where biggest leaders of Congress and SP are staring at each other. What a joke," said Sinha.
 
 For Tanmay Pradeep, a law graduate residing in Rajbhawan Colony, the idea to pit SP and Congress candidate against each other is a farce. “They are making the decision difficult and both the parties will be at loss. When SP decided for its candidate from Lucknow Central, why did Maroof jump into the fray," said Tanmay.
 
 So, for voters like Sunanda Ghosh, a homemaker and resident of Lalbagh, the alliance punchline `UP ko ye saath pasand hai' caught their attention but didn't make a lasting impact. “I thought the alliance was an innovative idea but a few days later, when I read reports of both SP and Congress candidates campaigning in Lucknow Central, I was amused. Later, when I saw SP flag carrying photograph of Akhilesh in the convoy of a Congress candidate, I was puzzled all the more. Now, I don't know who to vote,“ Sunanda said.
 
 When contacted, Maroof Khan said, “There is no question of withdrawing my nomination. I have been asked by none other than UP Congress in charge Gulam Nabi Azad. I have the party's symbol. I am with the SP-Congress alliance and representing it.'' On the other hand, Ravidas said, “He (Maroof) has been asked to withdraw his candidature. In case he doesn't, he will be expelled from the party .I have been pitted by SP chief on the cycle symbol. My fight is only with BJP . People are with me."
 
