AHMEDABAD: With the Goods and   (GST) set to be implemented from July, the Gujarat government is leaving no stone unturned to ensure a smooth transition to the new tax regime. As part of a public outreach programme, Gujarat commercial tax (VAT) department in collaboration with services, customs and excise and industry associations, is planning to launch a   training drive covering more than 200 talukas in Gujarat.

 The objective is to equip stakeholders such as traders, business owners and small industries with basic knowledge of GST before it is implemented.
 
 “We will start the training initiative from April 15 as part of a public outreach programme. Several associations like Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industries ( ), Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry ( ) and bar associations will participate in this programme. Training related to different aspects of GST will be offered to people in 250-odd talukas,” said Arti Kanwar, special commissioner, commercial tax, Gujarat.
 
 “Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI) has also been roped in. The training will be provided by teams comprising representatives from the industry association, VAT, excise, custom and service departments, Sales Tax Bar Association and chartered accountants,” said Shailesh Patwari, senior vice president of   (GCCI).
 
 Initial meetings have already taken place. However, the number teams to be deployed is yet to be finalized. The training sessions, to be taken up during weekends, are expected to be over by May 31, 2017.
 
 Meanwhile, the   (CBEC) is being reorganised for GST implementation. CBEC will be renamed as Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC). There will be two GST zones in Gujarat, Ahmedabad and Vadodara. There will be 9 GST commissionerates, one each at Ahmedabad-South, Ahmedabad-North, Gandhinagar, Rajkot, Bhavnagar, Kutch ( ), Vadodara-I, Vadodara-II and Surat.
 
 There will also be three sub-commissionerates, at Jamnagar, Anand and Bharuch. According to government data, the proposed number of GST divisions and ranges in Gujarat is 73 and 366 respectively. Apart from this, there will be four audit commissionerates and the same number of appeal commissionerates.
 
