VISAKHAPATNAM: Magic is an art that has never failed to impress the public. Irrespective of age, since centuries, people have been regaled by the vanishing and creating art of magicians. And in observance of legendary world renowned magician PC Sorcar’s (senior) 104th birth anniversary, World Magicians’ Day is being celebrated in Vizag on Thursday.

 Though in the era of internet and videogames, mediums of mass entertainment such as circus and stage shows have somewhat lost their sheen, magic performances are still popular. In fact, 25 magicians from the district are getting together on Thursday to celebrate the day at Premasamajam Kalavedika. Besides, the port city is also hosting an all-women magic diva show at Kalabharathi. Magicians Zenia, Pearl, Aiswarya, Akshaya, Shaily and Saumita besides Mhelly Bhumgara are to enthrall the audience with their magic.
 
 President of   (VMA) JVG Suresh said, “The magicians of Vizag are an enthusiastic lot, some of whom specialise in close-up magic, conjuring act or stage magic and illusions. Many of us have learnt the art from Kolkata-based magician Rajat Narasimhan. We also get special instruments and props required for magic from Kolkata. It’s basically a trick with hands and require a lot of skill and practice. The popular magic performances include multiplying birds, Chinese linking rings, escaping box, vanishing and producing acts and so on.”
 
 Vice-president of VMA K Ravi Shankar, who introduced the ‘Dove Act’ magic in  , had quit his government job to pursue his passion on a professional level and has done stage shows in various parts of India as well as abroad. 
 
 “Magic is still considered a popular form of entertainment and we get good response from people,” he said.
 
 VMA has various types of magicians. While magician Kaja is known for his coin manipulations, there are magicians like Akthar Hussain, Ch Parasuram, Madnia Sharief, Srikar Krishna, who have won accolades by winning inter-state competition. There are also a couple of young lady magicians named J Srujana and Mallika.
 
 Around 25 magicians from the district are getting together on Thursday to celebrate the World Magicians’ Day at Premasamajam Kalavedika. The port city is also hosting an all-women magic diva show at Kalabharathi
 
 
