NAGPUR: The security forces have geared up with heightened security measures after central intelligence agencies have issued a ‘high alert’ for the   following the low intensity blast in the   passenger train on March 7 earlier this week. The anti-sabotage checks have been stepped in different zonal divisions of the railways with Railway protection force (RPF) playing a pivotal role. 

 It has been reliably learnt that intelligence agencies have cautioned the railways stating that anti-national strengths, like   and its local sleeper cells, may target the running trains for maximum impact on the masses. The agencies, labelling railways as soft target for the terrorists, have mentioned that repeated attacks on railways cannot be ruled out on the lines of Bhopal-Ujjain passenger train in Ratlam division. A section of the security forces, dealing with terrorism, feel that the blast in the passenger train and derailment in couple of places were the handiworks of agencies like Pakistan-based ISI and ISIS handlers who are motivating and training youngsters online to trigger sabotages. 
 
 The sniffers canine units have been pressed into actions with both special checking being conducted in the trains and also on the platforms. It was reliably learnt that the loco-sheds and maintenance wings too have been brought under security surveillance. The special commando squads too have been kept ready for any emergency requirements. RPF have been also deploying strengths for checking baggages through X-ray. Hand held metal detectors and door framed metal detectors are also being used on the platforms by the RPF personnel. 
 
 According to a highly placed source in the RPF, Government railway police (GRP) and local city and their rural counterparts too have been relayed the increased threat perception. “Gangmen on security patrolling are being briefed about the threats posed by the terrorists. We have urged the gangmen to keep a close vigil on the tracks and joints especially the junctions,” he said.
 
 Another senior RPF personnel said that trains, passing in the night, are kept under special surveillance with armed escort parties accompanying them as per the security requirements. “Manpower has been briefed about the requirement of being extra alert even on routine duties. As there is shortage, it is now being ensured that the available manpower is utilized to the optimum level to ensure that security is not compromised at this point,” he said. 
 
 Last week, RPF and GRP had jointly conducted a three-day workshop for the cadets on railways with special emphasis on terror attacks and sabotages. The workshop was conducted, involving cadets from regional police training centres from Nagpur, following an instruction from State director general of police Satish Mathur. 
 
