She may have acted in quite a lot of films by now, but when she sees herself on screen, Ileana D'Cruz says, "Oh, this is the last thing that I want to see right now." 

  "I mean, I make weird faces and then I am like, 'What was I thinking?'" adds Ileana as she speaks to us about her film ' ' and the fun she had while shooting for it.
 
 
 Ileana says that she thoroughly enjoyed while shooting for the film with Anil and  . "It was a bunch of emotions that I had gone through while shooting for 'Mubarakan'. It was fun because my last film, ' ', had many emotional scenes, so I was emotionally drained. With 'Mubarakan', it was just fun. I was either yelling at Arjun or jumping from one place to another. I think I am such an animated person in the movie. I think Arjun and I, we had this mad chemistry on set. Everyone asks if Arjun and Anil are pranksters on set, but Arjun was really into his work because of his double role in the film and AK always sets the bar for the actors who work with him. They are super easy going but there's a lot of professionalism in both of them."
 
  
  
 
 
 It was recently reported that Ileana had a breakdown on the film’s sets as she wasn't given a role in a movie because of a specific reason. She says, "I don't want to take anyone's name. You have to be socially just out there, and that is not me. If I don't know you, I would not spend time with you and this was also one of the reasons why someone got a part in that film, not me. That did hurt me, everyone has their good and bad days and it wasn't one of my good days. But I knew I would not be able to do that. I know a lot of people who do that, but I am not here to do all of that. I am capable as an actor and I think I am a professional. So these things should not be the reasons for me to get any role in a film."
 
  
  
 
  
 Ileana, who has not shot for any movie in Delhi, says that she really wants to explore the city someday. "I really want to explore   and travel in a rickshaw. I really wish to dress like a Delhiite and explore the city some day," she says.
 
  
  (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
  
 Last week, the whole country was rooting for India's Women’s Cricket Team and although the actress supports the women's cricket team completely, she says, "I don't follow cricket. I don't understand cricket at all, that is why I don't watch it. I remember, I went to watch one of the games with   once and kept on asking, 'Why are they doing this, why are they running?' I don’t understand it so I don't follow it."
 
 
