MUMBAI: Despite Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s initiative of  , the   sector is largely dominated by imports, giving rise to "protectionist" demands of correcting the inverted duty structure in the budget. Levying a 10% basic customs duty on finished goods and 2.5% on raw materials, banning imports of second-hand medical devices and charging a 1% cess as excise duty on MRP payable by importers and manufacturers, would boost local production and control prices, experts say.

 Pointing the anomalies,   Velu founder and MD Trivitron Healthcare told TOI: MNCs can import medical devices with 0 to 20% customs duty for finished goods, whereas raw materials to manufacture in India attract higher customs duty between 20% to 30% in many categories. This inverse duty is one of the major deterrent for producing in India”.
 
 While some correction (in duties) was done for imaging equipment last year, it needs to be extended to all categories including in-vitro diagnostics (clinical laboratory), HIV kits, implantable devices and other products.
 
 For medical devices, AiMeD has been advocating a nominal duty of 10% for those items where exports are over Rs 5 crore - ensuring availability of international quality products, to enable ‘Make in India’, Rajiv Nath, forum coordinator of AiMeD which represents domestic industry, said.
 
 The country of origin should be put on unit pack, so as to prevent unrestricted imports from China and Taiwan, which are sold with `Made in India’ labels here, he said adding, pseudo-manufacturing needs to be curbed.
 
 There are no incentives or subsidies for local innovation and production in the Rs 65,000 crore medical devices industry, where 70% of devices and 90% of medical electronics are imported, Velu said. According to Velu, customs duty hike will not result in higher prices for patients, as the effective increase for hospitals will not be high. 
 
 However, Pavan Choudary, director general   which represents MNCs, said customs duties should be reduced to foster competitiveness and innovation. “For products where the ability to import substitute is still far away, high custom duties should be rolled back. Such duty increases, which are almost fully passed on to patients, will only tax the patients further due to increase in cost of treatment.
 
 Import duties on medical devices and equipment have already been increased almost across the board by 7.3% in January 2016. Since the custom duty regime in neighbouring countries (Nepal, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Bhutan and China) is now much lower than in India, the differential in duties created is likely to lead to smuggling of many of the low-bulk high-value devices, he added.
 
