NEW DELHI: The Directorate General of   (DGCA) on Tuesday ordered detailed examination of the Pratt & Whitney (PW) engines powering the Airbus A-320 new engine option (Neo) aircraft, following constant snags in this engine type. India's aviation regulator B S Bhullar has ruled that PW engines on the A-320 Neos that have operated for over 1,000 hours should immediately undergo thorough ‘boroscopic’ tests, meaning be checked in entirety for each part.

 IndiGo has 129 A-320s in its fleet of which 16 are Neos. And GoAir's current fleet of 24 includes 5 Neos. Of the 21 PW-powered Neos currently used in India, the DGCA expects to complete probing the engines that have operated for over 1,000 hours, in next two weeks.
 
 DGCA chief Bhullar’s decision came a day after the P&W engine on the A-320 Neo – a combination used by IndiGo and GoAir – reported their at least fifth snag this year with one of these 
  soon after taking off for Bhubaneswar due to this issue.
 
 IndiGo spokesman Ajay Jasra said: "The A320 Neo are meeting our expectations in terms of efficiency and fuel savings. Our Airbus A320 Neo aircraft induction and subsequent network expansion plan are intact and as per schedule. Though, we continue to face a few operational issues with the Neo engine; both Pratt & Whitney and Airbus are working to address these issues. And in the meantime we continue to receive the necessary operational and technical support including the provision of spare engines to help mitigate the operational impact on us." With 430 A-320 Neo family planes on order, IndiGo is Airbus's biggest customer globally for this aircraft.
 
 GoAir has ordered 72 A-320 Neos with PW engines and is yet to decide the engine for an additional order of 72 Neos it confirmed last year.
 
 The most common snag is getting warning of “engine oil chip detected” message for these engines. The DGCA had last week made it mandatory to ground the PW-powered Neos immediately for repairs after getting the “engine chip oil” warning instead of first flying it for up to 10 hours and then doing so.
 
 A unit of United Technologies Corp, P&W’s A-320 neo engines have been plagued with issues like slow engine startup times and erroneous engine software messages in the new engine. 
 
 According to Airbus, the A320 Neo family offers airlines an engine choice between the Pratt & Whitney Pure Power PW1100G-JM and the CFM LEAP-1A engines of CFM, a JV of GE (USA) and Safran Aircraft Engines (France
 
 The A-320 is the most commonly used plane in India and dominates fleets of several big airlines here like IndiGo (all A-320 family), Air India, GoAir and Vistara. IndiGo and GoAir have ordered hundreds of A-320 Neos with P&W engines and are taking up the issue with the engine manufacturer and Airbus. Vistara and   A-320 Neos will have CFM engines.
 
 PW spokesperson Sara Banda had recently told TOI: “Pratt & Whitney is supporting GoAir and IndiGo to assess the situation and minimize any disruption. At this time, it is premature to speculate on the cause of the issues while they are still under review. We are working closely with our customers and our suppliers in order to address and resolve these issues quickly. The PW GTF (geared turbofan engine) engines are a game-changing, break-through technology with more than 82,000 hours in service.”
 
