BENGALURU:   has revised its policies for third-party merchants who sell on its platform, slated to be effective next month. The e-commerce major will increase its commission rates by about 50% on an average across categories with some segments seeing a 100% hike for sellers. This is the second time the online retailer has raised its commission in the last six months.

 Amazon will also start charging higher cancellation fees from sellers based on certain terms and conditions.   India said, “Sellers will now be charged a cancellation fee of 8.5% of the value of items instead of 2.5%.” Amazon India, much like other online marketplaces, earns a commission of 5-20% from sellers depending on the category. Earlier last month,   had also revised its norms for sellers when it increased certain charges on high value products, while cut some in lower value products. When contacted, an Amazon India spokesperson confirmed the development.
 
 The All India Online Vendors Association (AIOVA), which comprises about 2,000 online sellers, said Amazon’s latest policy would mostly impact lower priced products, adding that vendors may consider passing the increased costs to consumers. “The continuous increase in commissions for third-party sellers will make selling uncompetitive against the likes of Cloudtail.
 
 We are taking the matter to the Competition Commission of India (CCI) since the ministry of commerce is not intervening in this matter,” a spokesperson of AIOVA said. One of the biggest sellers on Amazon, Cloudtail is a joint venture between Amazon and N R Narayana Murthy’s Catamaran Ventures. The minimum cost of selling one product would increase by Rs 25-30, added the AIOVA spokesperson.
 
 “This fee revision is a part of our regular process, and we do not change our fees frequently so as to give our sellers a sense of predictability in their earnings. While we have increased fee in certain cases, we have also reduced fee in multiple categories such as gold coins, sports, personal care appliances and others. We have also removed the delivery service fee charged on all orders, which will benefit sellers as they tap into consumers from different corners of the country,” the spokesperson said in an emailed response. Amazon India claims to have about 1.7 lakh sellers on its platform.
 
