PANAJI:   seems to be up against the wall as it desperately searches for a credible candidate to contest the Panaji bypoll against chief minister Manohar  . With five days left for the last date of nomination, Congress, which emerged the single largest party in the February assembly election, has been rebuffed by three probable candidates whom it approached.

 If  , its best bet to take on Parrikar on his home turf, joined the ruling partner Goa Forward Party, the other two—senior high court advocate Surendra Desai and former Panaji mayor Ashok Naik—refused to contest on the party ticket.
 
 The panic was evident in Congress camp as its state unit chief Shantaram Naik rushed to the state legislative assembly complex on Monday evening to convene a special joint meeting with it’s legislature party members after Ashok Naik declined the party’s offer to contest the August 23 byelections for the state capital.
 
 In its Monday edition, TOI had reported that Ashok Naik had virtually made up his mind not to accept Congress nomination.
 
  There was pressure on him from “common friends” not to contest, sources said.
 
 Ashok Naik also confirmed, when he told reporters: “I consulted all of them over two days. Some people told me that they wouldn’t like it if I joined the Congress. Some workers said independent, but as an independent candidate, I will not win. There was no option because I don’t want to contest elections to lose.”
 
 He also declined to campaign for Congress though he felt that Parrikar had not done justice to the constituency. Ashok Naik, a loyal   worker for 27 years and who also served as the BJP Panaji mandal president for four terms, enjoys considerable support within the saffron cadre, corporation of the city of Panaji councillors and Catholic voters.
 
 “The Congress gave me a proposal. I gave it a thought, I met A Chellakumar (  general secretary Goa desk in-charge) and I told him, if I am to contest, then finalise it fast. But they kept going back and forth, their other candidate dropped out, and because of all this it got delayed,” Ashok Naik said.
 
 But Congress continued to put up a brave front with its state unit president Shantaram Naik claiming the party still had four to five probable candidates to choose from and they would “apply their mind” and decide the candidate.
 
 “We have done our consultation and some more informal discussions will be held. Tomorrow (Tuesday) the names will be finalised and sent to AICC,” Shantaram Naik said.
 
 A party MLA, who is part of the ongoing discussions to finalise the candidates, said   and Ramakhant Khalap were the front runners, while Yatish Naik, Jitendra Deshprabhu and Pratima Coutinho were also who were in consideration by the party.
 
 Sources said the party was keen on fielding a candidate within the cadre to ensure that the candidate does not back out.
 
 But one thing that the newly-appointed Goa Congress president agreed was that the party had failed to build the block organisation in Panaji. “I have no hesitation in saying that we have neglected the Panaji constituency. It is our duty to build the organisation and at the same time, build the constituency,” Shantaram Naik said.
 
