KOCHI: In a major blot on Kerala football, Kozhikode-based   were forced to pull out from the ongoing   (KPL) after their players refused to play their away game against   in Thiruvananthapuram reportedly for non-payment of wages.

 The club has had a disastrous run in KPL this season losing all three of their matches in which they conceded 22 goals while they scored none.
 
 The team management had booked tickets for the players and coaching staff to travel from Kozhikode to Thiruvananthapuram to play Saturday's match at   in the state capital but the players even refused to step out of the team hotel in Kozhikode. A player from Quartz SC, who didn't wish to be named, alleged that he hasn't been paid his monthly salary since he joined the club towards the end of February. "I come from Manipur and I have not received a single penny from the club officials after landing here. Forget my monthly salary, they are yet to reimburse for my travel from Manipur to Kozhikode, something which they had promised when I agreed to join them. On most occasions, we had to spend money from our own pockets while travelling to match venues. This cannot be accepted," said the player who has already packed his bags and left for Manipur.
 
 "Results will come only when players are provided with a conducive atmosphere to give their best. Sadly this club has left all players to fend for themselves. I'm a small guy and I came to Kerala only because I wanted to play football which is my passion. But now I'll never come back to Kerala because of the ill-treatment meted out by this club," another Manipuri player playing for Quartz told STOI.
 
 The case two players from Manipur is not isolated.  , one of the goalkeepers roped in from Kolkata, had earlier approached police officials in Kozhikode when the club didn't pay him his salary. "The police called up the executive members of the club to the police station last month and after holding discussions with them, they assured me that the club officials have agreed to pay my due. But once I reached the team hotel, the management said that they can give me only Rs 2000. I had no choice but to leave and the club still owes me around Rs 22,000," said the 26-year-old, who had earlier played for clubs like   and Josco FC, Kochi.
 
 However, officials of the club management rejected the allegations of the players and questioned their attitude, which they feel resulted in team's pathetic display. "I don't know on what basis they can say they haven't been paid. The players came and played the district league first and then they came back for KPL after a small break. If we hadn't paid our players after the district league, would they have come back for KPL? Results were not coming. Defeats can be accepted but going down by eight to nine goals cannot be justified. And that's the reason we decided to withdraw our participation from KPL," said P Haridas, CEO of Quartz SC.
 
 With the withdrawal of Quartz, the tournament will now be a ten team affair and group A will have four teams. Meanwhile,  , the organisers of KPL said that they will impose a fine on Quartz SC for withdrawing from an ongoing tournament. "All three matches played by Quartz will be cancelled and the tournament fixture will be changed," said P  , KFA secretary. It will mean that   which are currently on the second place will move to third place while the third place holders KSEB will be elevated to second place.
 
 Interestingly, Quartz SC, who emerged runners-up in the Kozhikode district league a few months ago, doesn't have a single player from Kerala in their squad as all the players came from Hyderabad, Goa, West Bengal and Manipur. And it seems the team management's decision to field players from outside the state has done the club more damage than good.
 
