MUMBAI: The   has come to the rescue of a   being haunted by a 21-year-old case of the alleged theft of a car stereo. A division bench of Justice   and Justice Sandeep Shinde quashed the   against the NRI, lodged in 1996 by Mumbai Police, saying his constitutional right for a speedy trial was infringed. 

 “(In the facts of the case) we feel and are convinced the petitioner has been denied his constitutional right to a speedy trial and therefore the criminal proceedings initiated against him in 1996 and pending in the court of metropolitan magistrate, Andheri railway mobile court, deserves to be quashed and are accordingly quashed and set aside,” said the division bench.
 
 Mumbai Police had said neither the case papers nor the chargesheet was traceable. A co-accused in the case was acquitted in 2003, after the complainant was not available, the sole witness turned hostile and the stolen stereo was not produced. The investigation officer too had not appeared in court. 
 
 The   had approached the HC after his wife applied for a visa to go the US in 2016 but was informed a criminal case was linked to her husband’s passport and unless it was resolved, her visa could not be issued. 
 
 The case was lodged at Meghwadi police station on February 15, 1996, against the NRI, who was then a student, and another co-accused. The duo was accused of breaking the glass of a car and stealing its audio system. Later that year, he left for the US to pursue higher studies and settled there. He claimed that since 1996 he never heard about the case, nor was he summoned by the court. In 2003 the court acquitted the co-accused for lack of evidence. Three years later when he came to India, he learnt there was a non-bailable warrant issued against him. He appeared before the metropolitan court and the warrant was struck down. There was again silence with regard to the case and it was not until 2016 when his wife applied for a visa that the case reared its head again. He claimed there was no purpose in keeping the case alive. 
 
 The HC agreed. “We cannot overlook the fact that the case is of 1996 and the witnesses in the case would not be available, as they were not available in the year 2003 when the co-accused was tried. The stolen property is not available with the prosecution. Further, receiver of the stolen property had also turned hostile when co-accused was tried. Moreover, the investigating officer did not respond to summons when co-accused was tried. In view of this, possibility of trial, in the given case is bleak and we see no propriety in keeping (it) pending,” held the bench. 
 
 
