A native of Rajkot in  , Chinoy is an IFS diplomat of the 1981 batch and is a China and East Asia specialist.

 Q What role is Japan playing in India today and how does it impact the Indian economy?
 
 A The relationship between the two countries has matured and has acquired critical mass over the years as the stakeholders and areas of cooperation have increased manifold. Japan today is technically our No. 1 investor – as the first two are Singapore and Mauritius, serving as multi-source platforms. In 2016-17, Japanese investment in India was US$4.7 billion. The Japanese footprint is visible in many states – from Haryana to Tamil Nadu and from Maharashtra to northeastern states – through investments by Japanese companies and joint projects, particularly in infrastructure development.
 
 Q What is the strategic importance of Indo-Japanese ties?
 
 A Japan today is playing a major role in India’s transformation. India also understands that no other country will play a bigger role in achieving India’s economic aspirations. It would not be exaggeration, if I say that the   relationship will be the transformational relationship of the 21st century. Today, the partnership has gone beyond simple economics to working together for connectivity in the region, including in the context of the Asia-Africa Growth Corridor (AAGC) that extends the reach of the partnership to Africa.
 
 Q What is the significance of choosing Gujarat as the meeting venue for the summit?
 
 A: Apart from the fact that Gujarat is PM Shri Narendra Modi’s home state, the state is at the forefront of the relationship with Japan. The earliest connections can be found by way of SMEs in Gujarat and Japan. Moreover, Otemon Gakuin University in Osaka, Japan and Gujarat University in Ahmedabad have the longest unbroken student exchange between the two countries. Gujarat has received approximately US$1 billion in investment, including the presence of names such as Suzuki.
 
 Q How do you see the roadmap for Japanese firms in Gujarat?
 
 A The partnership has a lot of potential – Gujarat has only 80 companies out of about 1,400 Japanese companies active in India. Gujarat is not yet saturated and multiple regions all over the state can be considered ripe for Japanese investments. tnn
 
 
