NEW DELHI: Almost a year after   came to a standstill when the former chief minister J   was admitted in a hospital, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has asked the Chennai police to file a case against those who forced about 20 children to pierce their cheeks with two meter steel rods as part of a ritual for speedy recovery of ailing Jayalalithaa.

 The federal human rights body has also issued a notice to the state government asking it to submit a report in the matter within four weeks, detailing steps taken to stop such rituals in the future.
 
 The NHRC has asked the additional commissioner of Police, Law of Order, North Chennai to file a case under sections 326/341/34/120B of IPC (pertaining to causing hurt, wrongful restrain, criminal conspiracy with common intention) and section 23 of   Justice Act (pertaining to cruelty to children) against responsible persons.
 
 It has also asked the police to inform about the disciplinary action taken against the erring police officers, who were, admittedly, present at the site when boys cheeks were being pierced but did nothing to stop it.
 
 The Commissioner of Police, Greater Chennai had confirmed to NHRC that such incident had happened on the October 3 last year.
 
 As part of a ceremony, the children were made to walk from   to Seniamman Temple, Manikondu, Tondiarpet by the supporters of AIADMK. 
 
 The Commission has observed that from the material available on record, including the photographs, it is apparent that the children were very small and innocent and their cheeks were forcibly pierced.
 
 A photograph reveals that the children were made to wear a cap with a photograph of Ms Jayalalithaa and with slogan written on it – “long live Amma”. “One girl is seen caught by some persons for the purpose of piercing her cheeks. The incident makes it a clear case of violation of human rights of children,” said a statement issued by NHRC.
 
 In his report to NHRC, Greater Chennai Police Commissioner had said that the children participated in the event with the approval of their parents and were not forced to do so.
 
 “However, he had accepted that the incident was a gross violation of child rights and that the police personnel, who attended the Bandobast (law and order) duty on the October 3, 2016, 2016 in connection with the event, had been severely warned. He assured that if any such incident is reported in future, action will be taken under the relevant provisions of the law against the guilty,” says NHRC.
 
 The Commission has observed that it fails to understand how the consent of the parents, or that of the children for the ritual, can justify the criminal act of piercing children’s cheeks with two meter steel rods. 
 
 Admittedly, the police officials, present at the site of the incident did nothing to stop it. Therefore, a simple warning to the erring police personnel is abysmal considering the gravity of the incident, it said.
 
