NEW DELHI: Among more than 400 Durga Puja celebrations in Delhi, there are many that eschew show for community participation. This year marks 108 years since the first one was organised at Kashmere Gate, for instance, and like others of its kind with hoary traditions, modern themes and big budgets have no takers here.

 The Kashmere Gate Puja Samiti was formed in 1911 after Bengali administrative officers came to the city when the British shifted India’s capital from Calcutta to Delhi. “You won’t find ornate pandals or art-form idols here,” said  , former president of the club that organises the event. “Our tradition is to celebrate the arrival of goddess Durga with simple cultural programmes.” The puja is recalled for its grand immersion ceremony in which the devout take the idol to the Yamuna on a bullock cart.
 
 Not far from the Kashmere Gate Durga Puja ground is the Timarpur puja. The committee there was registered in 1914, and it too believes in involving the people around in the celebrations. “Like the puja at Kashmere Gate, we have been trying to keep alive the tradition we brought from Bengal,” said Anandi Chatterjee. “We are fortunate that every new generation has been supportive about the event.”
 
 At Daryaganj, the distinctive beats of the dhak reverberate from the grounds at Commercial School. The only Durga puja in this part of the Walled City dates back to a year after Independence. “It all began as a household puja, which was then enthusiastically taken up by the small Bengali community that stayed here,” said Rana Sen, whose grandmother, Binapani Sen, organised the first puja in 1948.
 
 Recalling its past, Sen recalled, “My great grandfather, Dr HC Sen, a railway doctor, had brought his family to this place when the British were laying the railway line between Agra and Delhi. Since it was difficult for the family to go back to our ancestral home in Sodepur near Kolkata for the festival, my grandmother organised Durga Puja for the family here.” The number of Bengalis may have gone down, but the annual event is continued enthusiastically by other residents.
 
 At the Minto Road Durgostav Samiti, PL Bhattacharya, chief priest of the Minto Road   Bari that organises the puja, said: “Our’s has been a famous venue that has attracted VIPs, including presidents and prime ministers. We focus on the purest rituals every year, so there haven’t been many changes in the puja since 1940.”
 
 Amid all the ornate pandals at the capital’s Bengali hub of Chittaranjan Park, there is one where tradition and people participation matter more than ostentation. The Dakshin Palli Puja Committee, holding its 23rd event this year in Pocket 52, focuses on old-world imperatives. “The colour used on the idol is soluble water colour and everything in the   uses organic materials,” said PK Paul, committee member. This may not give the pandal the glitzy allure of the rest, but the organisers wouldn’t have it any other way. For them, faith is uppermost, not appearances.
 
