GURUGRAM: Last week, while previewing the  , TOI made mention of the budding interest in the sport in places like Andhra Pradesh and  . The nationals, hosted by iSKATE under the aegis of the Ice Skating Association of India, got over on Monday, and participants from these ice-free outposts proved emphatically they weren’t here just to make up the numbers.

 So, is a revolution on the cards? Well, it’s important to remember that many who take to skating on the ice come via roller skates. And that’s certainly true of the two southern states. For, all you need is a level surface. “We all started out doing roller skating,” Anup Kumar Yama, India’s most decorated skater, told TOI.
 
 Anup, 33, began on roller skates as a five-year-old, back in 1989, and first skated on the ice in 2006, in Shimla. He bagged gold at the 2013 Artistic Skating World Championships (senior men inline), in Taipei City, Chinese Taipei. This is an annual artistic roller-skating event, which is sanctioned by the International Roller Sports Federation.
 
 “When I was standing on the podium, and the Tricolour was being raised and the national anthem being played, I thought, ‘This shouldn’t end with me’,” said this Arjuna Awardee. A year earlier, Anup had established his academy in Hyderabad, and the gold only gave him further motivation.
 
 Last year at the nationals, the   travelled with seven members. This year, it was 42-strong. “We had experienced skaters, who had been to at least two or three national championships. But more than 25 of the kids had never skated on ice before — they had to train on roller skates before coming here.” Which makes their performance, and that of the Andhra Pradesh skaters, all the more remarkable.
 
 According to Anup, there are around 5,000 people in Telangana pursuing roller figure skating, roller speed skating and ‘roller hockey’.
 
  But the team’s success on the ice in Gurgaon has “ignited a fire” back home. “People are telling me, ‘Next time, please let us know – even we want to come for the championships!’
 
 “It’s so mysterious to them – doing roller skating and then coming to the ice and putting on such a tremendous show.”
 
 Jagraj Singh Sahni, former skater and   coach, isn’t surprised. Sahni believes India is fast catching up with the Asian level, helped by better infrastructure and growing interest. 
 
 “We’ve done wonders in  , and we’re doing pretty well in figure skating,” he informs.
 
 Meanwhile, iSKATE continues to work with the state associations to hold camps through the year. “Such training camps expose the kids to more ice time,” says Karan Rai, operations head at the all-season rink.
 
 For the record, Telangana topped the medals table, with seven gold, three silver and two bronze, while neighbours Andhra Pradesh took home two gold, six silver and three bronze. Delhi bagged a brace of silver medals and four bronze, Kerala a gold and a bronze, while there was a medal each for Tamil Nadu (gold) and Uttarakhand (bronze).
 
 
