KOZHIKODE: In a setback to the LDF government,   A K   resigned from the post on Sunday, hours after a vernacular television channel aired an audio clip of the minister allegedly having lewd conversation with an unidentified women.

 Announcing his decision at a press conference at the government guest house here, the 71 year old minister who is a five- time legislator belonging to the Nationalist   (NCP) however denied the allegations and said that he was ready to face to face probe by any agency.
 
 "The news aired by the channel is incorrect and I have no connection with it. However I am resigning to uphold morality in politics which our party and political front have always tried to uphold. I have urged the CM to institute a thorough probe into the incident," said Saseendran.
 
 Saseendran said that his resignation should not be taken as an admission of guilt.
 
 The audio clip was aired by  , which started telecast on Sunday. The minister announced his resignation at 3 pm, four hours after the channel aired the clip.
 
 Asked whether the voice in the alleged audio clip was his, the minister said, "I have not heard the audio clip but I have not talked in an immoral manner with any woman. There are so many points that I can raise to avoid my resignation as many people who heard it said that even the voice of the woman is not there in the audio- clip. But I am not going into the merit of the allegations as my immediate priority is to protect the image of my party and the front, especially when it is fighting a byelection in Malappuram Lok Sabha constituency," Saseendran said.
 
 He said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan did not demand his resignation but he called up the chief minister and informed about his decision to step down.
 
 "When I told him about my readiness to resign, the chief minister said that he had faith that I will be able to take a right decision," he said.
 
 Earlier, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had told media that the government viewed the matter seriously.
 
 
 
 
