NEW DELHI: Aviation authorities have now proposed to hike the notice period of airline commanders from six months to a year. 

  Ashok Gajapathi Raju had last year rejected airlines’ demand to double the notice period of pilots but now the   ( ) has come out with a draft   (CAR) that proposes to do so for captains.
 
 “It has been decided by the government that any act on the part of pilots, including resignation from the airlines without a minimum notice period of one year in respect of commanders and six months in respect of co-pilots, which may result in last minute cancellation of flights and harassment to passengers, would be treated as an act against public interest,” the draft CAR says.
 
 Some ‘old’ airlines facing poaching of pilots from   and new Indian carriers have been demanding that notice period of pilots be raised to a year. Airlines like   and IndiGo have faced ‘poaching’ of their pilots.
 
 However, the view in the aviation ministry and DGCA till recently was that notice period was an issue between the employer and employees in which they should not interfere. But the regulator seems to have given in to pressure of big airlines and changed its stance.
 
 “In some cases, even groups of pilots resign together without notice and as a result airlines are forced to cancel their flights at the last minute. Such resignation... causes inconvenience and harassment to passengers... This is a highly undesirable practice and goes against public interest,” the draft says.
 
 “Such an action on the part of pilots attracts” punishment including debarring them from “permanently or temporarily holding any licence or rating.” “It takes about eight to nine months to train a pilot to operate an aircraft used for airline operations… Even after this training, the pilot can operate only as a co-pilot. 
 
 To operate an aircraft as pilot-in-command (PIC), he needs to gain experience and undertake skill test to fly as PIC of an aircraft, which may take another four months or so. 
 
 Therefore, it would take more than four months for an airline to replace a trained PIC,” the draft CAR issued by DGCA chief B S Bhullar says.
 
