GREATER NOIDA: As chief minister   revived the plans for an international airport in Jewar, officials of Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority ( ) said they would leave no stone unturned to make the project a reality. “Once the Union government gives its in-principal approval for the project, we will start the   acquisition process,” Rama Raman, principal secretary, industrial development, told TOI on Friday from Lucknow.

 The Union civil aviation ministry has to detail the model for the Greenfield airport, he said. “Besides, the participation share in terms of finances of the state and Centre will have to be defined,” he added. The YEIDA had already done its homework on setting up the project, he said.
 
 According to officials, YEIDA had earmarked nearly 10,000 hectares of land across 35 villages for the project when it was first proposed in 2001. Later, YEIDA had planned to develop industries on some portions of the land, which had been earmarked for the airport in Jewar. The site already has key no-objection certificates needed for the construction to start. 
 
 “As per the first phase of our Master Plan-2031, we had reserved nearly 2,800 acres for the Jewar airport. In December 2015, we reserved 5,000 acres across a dozen villages,” said Arunvir Singh, CEO, YEIDA. “Once we have the formal nod, we will start the land acquisition in a phased manner. Our officials have already surveyed the reserved area and the farmers are willing to part with their land for the project,” he explained.
 
 In May 2016, the Union civil aviation ministry had asked the state government to send a fresh feasibility study and obstacle limitation survey (OLS) report on the project as a similar survey was conducted by the director, civil aviation department, UP for the airport in 2010. Following the letter from the Union government, the director of state civil aviation department, Devendra Swarup, on September 24 directed YEIDA to carry out OLS for establishment of the international airport in Jewar. “Since we do not have any expert who can do such a survey, we have advised through a letter that it should be carried by state aviation department,” said Singh.
 
 In March last year, the Centre had also asked the state government to prepare a detailed project report as per Greenfield airport policy, 2008. The DPR is to be readied jointly by YEIDA and the state government, officials said. However, for an airport to come up in Jewar, a policy that doesn't allow two Greenfield airports within 150km of each other, unless one is overburdened, will have to be amended.
 
 The Jewar airport proposal has been hanging fire for years, first mooted in 2001 by the then chief minister  . Mayawati too pushed for it when she succeeded him as CM. But in 2012, the   government scrapped the project, citing the clause that prohibits development of a second airport close to an existing one. Yadav instead pitched for Saifai as one of the three new options where an airport could come up.
 
 However, in November 2015, the UP government sent a letter expressing willingness to revive the Jewar airport proposal. The civil aviation ministry worked on it and finally gave approval to UP government in March this year.
 
 
