KOLKATA: When   does not develop mobile apps at his Bangalore firm, he cycles through hostile terrains, winning laurels for India. What makes the adventure hobby extraordinary for the   is he lost his right hand in an accident when he was barely four but that has never come in between Shah and his passion. 

 He is the only person from Bengal in the 10-member contingent that participated in the Asian   Championship in Bahrein and won a silver medal in the 12.8km Time Trial Road Race. The event was part of Asian Cycling Championship held from February 25 to March 3. 
 
 The cycling bug bit the 25-year-old only last year, apparently to opt for an eco-friendly mode of transport to manoeuvre through Bangalore’s notorious traffic. But soon, he got addicted to his childhood hobby and within a year, he achieved several feats. “I have cycled from Manali to Khardung La over 10 days with a single-day gap. I rode along with 30 others. I have participated in a 500-km tour in Karnataka for three days. Besides, I go for 200-km and 300-km tours,” Shah said. 
 
 Always a sports enthusiast, Shah used to be a gym freak and a cricket buff. “But cycling offered me a welcome break from the monotonous gym regime. Now, I am also associated with  , which helps athletes with disabilities take part in sporting events across the globe, arrange for their funds, motivate para athletes,” Shah added. He secured his own funding to participate in the Bahrain event. “I am still scouting for sponsors for future,” he smiled. 
 
 So, what are his future plans? “I am next going for a cycling tour of the Nilgiris, the Indian version of Tour De France. I also aim to participate in the World Championship in Italy. And then, I hope to be in the 2020 Summer Paralympics in Japan,” said the MBA grad. “Everything with speed interests me. My parents, who live in Kolkata, are a huge source of encouragement,” said the St Xavier’s Collegiate School for Boys alumnus. 
 
 Shah has started training under a   coach. “I follow team Sky from the Tour De France, their workouts as well as the workout regime of a few national able-bodied cyclists. Also I take up CrossFit training, indoor cycling and high-intensive indoor training to build endurance, speed and power,” he added.
 
 
