KOCHI: In order to resolve the water crisis during summer, the district administration has given a deadline of March 31 to complete laying or repairing of pipelines of all drinking water projects. District collector K Mohammed Y Safirulla said there were about 12 projects across the district and all works related to them have to be executed before the time-frame expires. 

 "Instructions have been given to the   ( ) to complete major works before March 15. It will help to augment supply lines and ensure better water supply," he said.
 
 He said that prior permission was given to the water authority to undertake road cutting works for carrying out pipe laying and repair works. The collector also said prior administrative sanction was accorded to construct five irrigation check dams at various places along Periyar River. "The district administration has been monitoring the water supply as well. We have been taking all possible steps to help people get access to water," added Safirulla.
 
 Speaking on one of the major projects in Angamaly, the collector said pipe-laying works along a 55km stretch was progressing fast at Angamaly. Almost 60% of the work has been completed. On completion of the work, around 80,000 people would get direct access to water supply. Areas like Ayyambuzha, Karukutty and Manjapara would get the benefit of the project. The district administration has also gathered information on water scarcity in these regions. The administration has instructed the officials to complete reconstruction of a temporary check dam in Neeleswaram panchayat near   and a check dam below Malayattoor bridge before February 29. The irrigation department was asked to complete construction of check dams at   and Vengoor by March 5.
 
 However, KWA officials said delay in availing funds and unwillingness of contractors to undertake small-scale works have hit pipe-relaying and repair works. They were also of the view that only when water gushes out from pipes would they be able to identify leaks.
 
 
