CHANDIGARH: The   on Tuesday ordered a stop on the production and dispatch of liquor from five distilleries in the state. The move has come after 1.1 lakh bottles of liquor were seized from two godowns in Bathinda on Sunday, and a preliminary investigation into the seizure had revealed that the liquor had been manufactured at the distilleries.

 Punjab chief electoral officer (CEO) V K Singh and ADGP V K Bhawra said they were “fully determined” to check the flow of liquor and narcotics during election period, and all static and flying squads had been told to ensure proper checking. 
 
 Commenting on reports of misuse of gunmen, the CEO said 400 more gunmen had been withdrawn after a thorough scrutiny of security provided to VIPs. He said 34 cases of paid news had also been detected.
 
 Singh said he personally monitored the situation in Malerkotla and advised DGP Mohammad Mustafa, whose wife Razia Sultana is contesting from Malerkotla assembly constituency on a Congress ticket, to stay at headquarters till the polling date. He said he had a video conference with chief secretaries and DGPs of neighbouring states of Haryana, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, and Jammu and Kashmir, and the Chandigarh adviser, and they had been told to completely seal the border with Punjab 48 hours prior to election to ensure free and fair voting. He said non-voters would not be allowed to stay back in Punjab and would have to leave the state 48 hours before the election. 
 
 The Election Commission claimed that it was vigilant to check the inducement of voters by liquor, money and narcotics and strict monitoring of the situation was been done at constituency level and also at commission level. He said the commission had seized 4kg heroin in Amritsar district and it was the largest seizure of narcotics after code of conduct. The states would also close liquor vends located in the 3km border belt adjoining Punjab during this period.
 
 Police have rounded up 5573 trouble-makers to date, and taken 4,147 in preventive custody to ensure peaceful election in the state. ECI has identified 4,840 vulnerable hamlets and 786 critical polling stations, and all arrangements have been ensured to conduct free and fair elections, he added.
 
 
 
 
 Dispatch and production of liquor in 5 distilleries stopped
 
 DGP Mohammad Mustafa, husband of Congress’s Malerkotla candidate Razia Sultana, advised to stay at headquarters till elections 
 
 Punjab border to be sealed with neighboring states 48 hours prior to polling
 
 Liquor sale in 3 km area bordering Punjab in all neighboring states banned.
 
 Police round up 5,573 trouble-makers and put 4,147 in preventive custody to ensure peaceful elections
 
 EC identifies 4,840 vulnerable hamlets and 786 critical polling stations
 
 16 election-related FIRs registered throughout states
 
