GURUGRAM: The   ( ) is going to conduct fresh draw of lot for allotting   to oustees of Southern Peripheral Rad (SPR) and Northern Peripheral Road (NPR). First draw of lot would be conducted for 14 oustees of Rambir Ki Dhani on SPR on January 30, while another draw for oustees of   is likely in February first week.

 With this work on completion of remaining work on SPR and NPR, which was stuck for last six months due to litigations, is likely to gain pace. The development has come as a relief for around 1.5 lakh people who have invested in hundreds of projects along SPR and NPR. The completion of these roads is also expected to improve connectivity of new Gurgaon and reduce traffic congestion on NH-8.
 
 Government of Haryana had issued notification under Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act 1984 on January 25, 2008 for a very prestigious project known as NPR. Section 6 was notified on March 18, 2008. The award was passed on December 23, 2009. The land acquisition was challenged by some of the oustees of the project. Finally on May 18, 2015 under the supervision of Punjab and Haryana high court, Final Terms of Settlement (FTS) was arrived at between Huda and petitioners.
 
 After a year Huda conducted draw of lot for allotting alternative plots to oustees of NPR and SPR in July-August 2016. The draw of lots was boycotted by most of the oustees. Oustees of SPR and NPR filed separate petitions challenging draw of lot. The litigation had virtually put a break on the projects. 
 
 SPR oustees, who were given alternative plots as per the Relocation and Rehabilitation Policy of state government, filed a petition in HC demanding benefits in accordance with FTS for NPR oustees. On September 9, 2016 HC directed to provide all benefits of FTS to the oustees of SPR, at par with the oustees of NPR.
 
 Another petition was filed by oustees of NPR alleging irregularities in allotment of alternative plots to oustees with General Power of Attorney (GPA) and Special Power of Attorney (SPA). Following HC in its order dated October 2, 2016 directed to stay the allotment of alternative plots to GPA, SPA holders.
 “Under the circumstances it was decided that all the benefits of FTS may be granted to all the oustees of NPR, SPR irrespective of the fact that whether they were petitioners or not. However, the claims of GPA, SPA would be put in abeyance till final outcome of the court,” said a notification issued by state government on January 24, 2017.
 
 Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav said, “Draw for oustees from Rambir Ki Dhani on SPR is scheduled for January 30.” He said Huda will try to vacate the land by February to complete the project at earliest.
 
 For the oustees of NPR draw is likely in first week of February. “We are completing formalities,” said Yadav adding that in case of NPR draw would be conducted only for non GPA, SPA holder. The oustees who have registry and houses constructed on the land, acquired for the project would be part of the draw.
 
 Around 560 oustees had applied for alternative plots out of which around 270 were allotted alternative plots in last draw held in July-August 2016. In the fresh draw around 220 NPR oustees (non GPA, SPA holder) who have registry and constructed house are likely to get alternative plots.
 
 “Fresh draw for SPR, NPR oustes would be conducted in accordance with the FTS under which oustees will get alternative plots equivalent to ground coverage of their constructed residential houses,” said Yadav. 
 
