JAIPUR: Rajput  , the Rajput organisation which has behind the alleged manhandling of filmmaker Sanjay Leela Bhansali on Friday, had kicked up a similar row in 2008.

 The outfit had threatened the shooting of Ashutosh Gowarikar’s historical drama ‘Jodhaa Akbar’ and later protested against its screening, with the film finally not being released in the state.
 
 Karni Sena had alleged that there was ‘blatant distortion of history’ in the film, and, hence, would not allow it to be released in Rajasthan. “They presented Jodhabai as the wife of Raja of Amber. This is not true as she was the daughter of Raja Bharmal of Mewar. During 2008 too, they used creative freedom as an excuse to twist historical facts,” said  , the leader of Karni Sena, adding that Akbar never had a wife named Jodhabai.
 
 In February 2008, the outfit carried out a series of protests against Gowarikar in Rajasthan, asking him to apologize for the content of the movie. The Karni Sena also moved court seeking a ban on the release of the movie.
 
 Activists of the Karni Sena later wrote letters in blood against the film's release and sent it to theatre owners. Such was the panic and terror that many theatre owners in Rajasthan did not screen the movie. The police at several places had to deploy additional force to ensure that law and order situation doesn’t spiral out of control.
 
 The Sena leaders also issued a diktat to Rajput organisations in other states, asking them to stop the screening of the movie.
 
 After the ‘Jodhaa Akbar’ row in 2008, the outfit became prominent fueling caste-based rivalries in colleges and universities in the state.
 
 On October 5, 2010, members of the Karni Sena alleged that their leader Kalvi was detained by the police ahead of Congress' ‘Chintan Shivir’.
 
 The Sena had threatened to breach the security to reach UPA chairperson Sonia Gandhi during the event to demand reservation. This had forced the police to beef up security across the city.
 
 On January 21, 2014, the outfit once again came into limelight for its violent protest against producer   when Sena members stormed into a session of Jaipur Literature Festival (JLF) which had Ekta Kapoor, the maker of TV serial ‘Jodha Akbar,’ as a speaker.
 
 While shouting slogans like ‘Ekta go back,’ the protestors also threw plastic bottles at her. The police later had to resort to mild baton charge to disperse the mob of angry protestors. The cops detained several people for disrupting law and order.
 
 The Sena members alleged that Ekta Kapoor had initially promised to change the name of the serial but she backtracked on her promise. The angry mob attacked the Jaipur office of the channel, which ran the controversial serial, on February 24, 2014.
 
 
