KOLKATA: Ever since the   made it mandatory to stand while the   is played before a film is screened, advertising professional Roshni Bhowmick chose to sit tight. Her ‘partner in crime’ has been her boyfriend. They insist “display of patriotism can’t be forced down one’s throat”.

 On the other end of the spectrum is BJP leader  . She had welcomed the SC order, saying, “Patriotism can’t be forced but some times it becomes imperative to make it mandatory for people to do things when they don’t do what should come voluntarily to them. I won’t thrash a person if he/she doesn’t but would expect him/her to voluntarily stand up when the National Anthem is played.”
 
 After Supreme Court made it clear on Tuesday that there was no need to compulsorily stand up when the National Anthem was played as part of a film or documentary, Chatterjee wants to stick to her habit. “I welcome the SC clarification. But I will stand even if it is played within the film,” Chatterjee said.
 
 Bhowmick, too, wants to do the same thing but for different reasons. “I will not stand up when the anthem plays in the beginning of the screening but will do it out of my own volition if it is played within the film. Till date, no one has harassed us for not standing up when the anthem played before the screening,” Bhowmick said.
 
 Bhowmick is aware of the incident that a movie-goer was dragged to the police station on January 31 for not standing up when the anthem was played before the screening of ‘Raees’. But such incidents can’t change the couple’s attitude. “If I respect someone, I will automatically stand up. But I’ll find it annoying if I am forced to stand up every time he enters the room,” she said.
 
 The fear of disobeying the SC order doesn’t bother this couple. “What happens if ABVP thugs beat up people holding the Tricolour in hand? Isn’t that unconstitutional?” asked Bhowmick’s boyfriend  .
 
 According to Deepak Asher, president of Multiplex Association of India, “One has to follow the SC order. If it says one has to stand by it, it needs to be done. If it says one need not stand, we abide by it.”
 
 However, Navin Chokhani, the owner of Navina, believes that a person’s nationalism can’t be judged by whether or not he/she stands up. “I don’t know why cinema halls were singled out for playing the National Anthem. If it’s not mandatory to play the anthem before a concert, cricket match or a restaurant meal, why should cinemas alone play them?” said Chokhani. But since it is the SC order, he has always abided by it.
 
