PANAJI: If Annette da Costa’s sports merit marks were added to her total score, she would have quite easily emerged as the topper in the arts stream.
 
 The Class 12 student of Rosary HSS, Navelim, secured 91.83 per cent marks in the recently-announced Higher Secondary Schools results. An all-rounder, thanks to her exploits in hockey and football for state and school, Annette earned an additional 42 sports merit marks which took her overall percentage to an amazing 98.83, a mark no other student has managed to achieve.
  
 Annette has beautifully struck a balance between sports and studies. On her way to the state hockey crown, Annette earned 32 marks; seven for winning at taluka level, 10 at district and 15 for the state championship. For representing Goa at the nationals, Annette bagged an additional 15 marks. The sports merit marks gives her a unique standing and probably a reason for many others not to ignore sports even if they are answering their all-important Board exams.
  
 “Sports marks really benefit a sportsperson. They very much deserve it for the time they spend on the ground. It is an additional lift to the students in terms of their education because it can help them develop their careers beyond sports,” said Oswaldo da Costa, father of Annette, who is also a senior physical education teacher at Rosary HSS, Navelim.
  
 Annette is not alone. Omkar Patil is another brilliant student who has given plenty of time to sports. The 17-year-old, a Class 12 science student of Ponda Education Society’s HSS, secured 93.33 percent. Omkar’s love for netball paid dividends as he broke into the state team. It earned him an additional 20 sports merit marks which took his overall percentage to 96.60.
  
 “Higher secondary and especially the twelfth standard examination results can be a career deciding year and sports must be given equal importance due to weightage of  ,” said Omkar.
  
 Omkar gained 10 marks for representing Goa at the netball nationals in Chattisgarh in December. He got another 10 marks for taking his school team to the zonal finals.
  
 “Sports marks are a blessing,” said Omkar, who is now planning to get into the National Defence Academy in Pune or pursue post-graduation in mathematics
  There will be several others who have struck a fine balance between sports and studies but the case of Goan football’s golden boy,  , stands out. Liston has been Goa’s outstanding footballer all through the season and even took exams during the crucial National Football Championships for the Santosh Trophy where Goa made it to the final.
  
 The Salgaocar FC striker walked away with 52 sports merit marks, adding another feather in the cap for Rosary’s, Navelim. In-between his remarkable performance at the Santosh Trophy, Liston answered his exams and secured 69 percent in the commerce stream.
  
 In  , Damodar HSS student Rishub Naik secured 95 percent in science with 32 sports merit marks while RMS HSS student Ameya Audi secured 91.5 percent with 27 sports merit marks.
