GHAZIABAD: She and her husband is in jail for the murder of their daughter Aarushi Talwar. But   has managed to capture the attention of many for doing something not so usual in Dasna jail. She has translated the book by journalist-turned-author   called ‘Tinka Tinka Dasna’ from Hindi to English.

 Nupur has been given due credit on the cover page of the book. “A police officer once asked me why am I writing the name of a murder convict on my book cover? But I had no such reservations because after talking to them, I know them like no one else does,” said Vartika Nanda.
 
 ‘Tinka Tinka Dasna’, is the second book in the ‘Tinka Tinka’ series authored by Nanda, reflecting on the imprisoned lives of five Dasna jail inmates – Nupur Talwar, her husband Rajesh Talwar, Nithari killings convict Surinder Koli, Rajesh Jha (waiting for release after being acquitted in 2015 in his wife’s murder case), and serial killer Ravinder Kumar. 
 
 Nupur, an avid reader according to the author, has translated the book into English in a span of two months in a barracks that she was sharing with more than 50 other women and 13 children. “Nupur is a voracious reader. I have never seen her without a book. She likes reading biographies and books help her deal with depressionThe husband-wife duo (Nupur and Rajesh) do not meet that often but Rajesh recommends books to her,” Nanda said
 
 Nupur has also penned two poems on Aarushi, along with her husband, which will also be published in the book.
 
 “I was looking for inmates who were proficient in English but she was a perfect choice. Besides, she is much more popular than other inmates,” Nanda added.
 
 This was also the last time she saw Arushi," the author explains.The author confesses Nupur was initially hesitant to accept her request, however, Nanda persuaded her. She started translating the book in February 2016 and completed it by April.A prison official says Nupur became disciplined while translating the book.
 
 Interestingly, while one inmate, accused on charges of terror, was denied the use of pen and paper, Nupur never faced such problems, according to sources. Officials, however, clarified saying the inmates are given such resources if the requests are ‘genuine’.
 
 
