NEW DELHI: Even as firemen struggled to make their way past the gaggle of parked cars in  , the people in the burning A-99 apartment in the four-storey building in east Delhi tried to make their way to safety. But the panic-stricken people ended up suffering injuries when the   they were using to lower themselves  .

 Debashish Hota, who shifted to the building just 10 days ago, heard the sound of sparking in the meter box on his bedroom wall, but by this time his mother was already shouting for help. “The sparks had set wooden boxes aflame and molten plastic was falling down on the scooters parked below,” narrated Hota. “Suddenly, there was a fire ball, perhaps because of a leak in one of the motorbike’s fuel tank and the fire spread swiftly.”
 
 Hota managed to herd his elderly parents out through the rear exit. The Pandeys living on the first floor tried to climb down too. “Our neighbour literally hung from the balcony railings with his child clinging to him. We fortunately caught him when he fell,” said Hota. 
 
 Binesh Rathee, a chemistry teacher, wasn’t so lucky. Though her husband and daughter managed to slide down using a sari, she fell from the first floor balcony when the makeshift rope broke. She suffered shoulder and hip injuries and had to be admitted to a hospital in Ghaziabad.
 
 Among the lucky survivors was Ishu Verma, though she lost four family members in the blaze. She was carried to safety by Shankar Durrani, who lived in the apartment opposite the Vermas on the second floor. Durrani said that he had rushed out into the thick smoke with a flashlight and managed to take Ishu to the lower floor. “But by the time I went back to help the others, the fire had spread,” said Durrani.
 
 Durrani went to second floor after the flames had been doused to find four of the Vermas lying dead, having been suffocated by the smoke.
 
 BB Sharma, a ground-floor resident, lost Rs 5 lakh cash that he had been saving for his daughter’s marriage. “The fire damaged a part of my house adjacent to the garage. I had kept the cash in a locker there, but the fire burnt everything,” sighed Sharma.
 
 A team of power supply officials inspected the building later in the day. A spokesperson of the power department said, “Preliminary reports suggest that the fire started at the water-pump motor in the house, spread quickly to engulf several two-wheelers parked close to the electricity meter board. Our condolences are with the family of the deceased.” As a safety measure, power supply was switched off in the area.
 
 
