MUMBAI: When senior   leader and finance minister   presents the budget proposals on Saturday, the biggest challenge before him will be to draft a comprehensive action plan to tackle the agrarian crisis, resulting in farmer suicides, reduce unprecedented   burden, cost of establishment and a new strategy to mobilise resources, as the state has paid a heavy price following demonetisation.

 A high-ranking bureaucrat admitted to TOI that notwithstanding the tall claims of chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and Mungantiwar,   is facing a financial crisis due to lack of vision. “Maharashtra’s debt burden is the highest in the country as per an RBI report. We have crossed the mark of Rs 3.73 lakh crore, followed by UP and West Bengal. Unfortunately, in the recent past, no stringent measures were taken to reduce the debt  ,’’ he said.
 
 When it was expected that the BJP-led government will initiate measures to reduce cost of establishment, the salary burden increased from Rs 19,882 crore in 2006-07 to Rs 73,438 crore at the end of current financial year, while interest on loans taken by the state government increased from Rs 11,983 crore to Rs 27,663 crore during the corresponding period.
 
 In 1999, then finance minister Jayant Patil had submitted a white paper on state   and had promised that the cost of establishment will be reduced from 63% to 49% in a time-bound period and non-performing state-run enterprises will be closed. In April 2015, even Mungantiwar presented a white paper, promising critical measures to reduce cost of establishment and improve the financial situation. “Both papers were good documents but no steps were taken to contain expenditure on establishment or improve the financial situation,’’ he said.
 
 The bureaucrat felt that if the CM was serious on reducing cost of establishment, the exercise should begin from cabinet members. “A cabinet member is entitled to a staff of 15 but in Maharashtra, the strength is more. The strength should be cut drastically. Our cost of establishment should not be more than 45-50%,’’ he said.
 
 “The ensuing financial year will be more critical since the state government will have to pay its 19 lakh employees as per the recommendations of the Seventh Pay Commission. The additional burden on the state exchequer will be more than Rs 21,530 crore. On one hand, our resources are limited, and on the other hand, expenditure is increasing manifold,’’ he said.
 
 On resource mobilisation, the bureaucrat said it will be bad for a state like Maharashtra owing to demonetisation. Prime Minister Narendra Modi may say the decision was taken for the welfare of the common people, but Maharashtra has lost massive resources. “Merely on excise duty on liquor, we have lost Rs 10,000 crore. The Centre’s decision to wind up shops on highways added to the woes of the state government. In addition, there was a drastic reduction in registration of tenements and flats across the state. Even less sales tax was collected due to poor transactions. We are not sure about the impact of the goods and service tax on the state, as a final decision is awaited,’’ he said.
 
 The bureaucrat said in view of the unprecedented resource crunch, Mungantiwar will have to come out with a new action plan to mobilise resources. “Huge funds will be required to tackle the agrarian crisis. Even if now the CM has rejected the proposal for a loan waiver, sooner or later, he will have to accept it, which will require at least Rs 30,000 crore,’’ he said.
 
 Further, he said, massive funds will be required for the Shivaji Memorial in the Arabian Sea, the Dr Ambedkar Memorial in Dadar and the Bal Thackeray memorial in Dadar. “These are political compulsions and the CM will have to make a huge provision in the budget for these populist projects,’’ he said. In addition, the bureaucrat said, the BJP-led government will have to mobilise resources for completion of on-going irrigation projects, the bullet train, Metro and monorail projects. “Certainly, we can raise loans from the open market, but there are limitations on such open market borrowings,’’ he said.
 
