GURUGRAM: The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has asked the municipal corporations of Gurgaon and Faridabad to submit a   on steps taken in the past one year to control air pollution in the two cities as per the National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) 17-point action plan.

 The board has instructed the two civic bodies — Municipal Corporation of Gurgaon (MCG) and Municipal Corporation of Faridabad (MCF) -- to not only submit the action-taken reports till March 15 this year, but also details of cases identified and fines collected.
 
 “Details of challan issued and penalty collected (should) be intimated to HSPCB ( ) for compilation and reporting. Actions taken in this regard as on 15.03.2017 (should) be intimated to HSPCB for compilation and reporting,” read a letter issued to the two civic bodies by the CPCB (a copy of which is with TOI).
 
 In April 2015, the NGT had issued the 17 action points under Section 18 (1) (b) of the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981, regarding prevention, control or abatement of air pollution and improvement of ambient air quality in Delhi and the National Capital Region.
 
 The instructions given by the green court included prevention of vehicle parking in non-designated areas; introduction of flexi/staggered work timings to minimise movement of vehicles during peak hours; decongestion of pathways; creation of green buffers along the traffic corridors; vacuum sweeping of road; installation of water fountains at major traffic intersections; taking stringent action against waste burning in the open; ensuring proper collection of waste; and controlling dust pollution at construction sites.
 
 The action points were supposed to be met within a stipulated timeline. Different action points had different deadline, ranging from 30 to 90 and 180 days. 
 
 Reportedly, the MCG and MCF have not been able to meet all action points within the stipulated timeline. “We have so far not received reports from the corporations on various action points, including installation of water fountains, decongestion of pathways, prevention of parking in undesignated areas etc. As per the instructions of CPCB, we will request the civic bodies to submit the reports at the earliest,” said an official of HSPCB.
 
 
