AHMEDABAD:  , known for its ostensibly model industrial growth, has registered the highest number of cases of occupational diseases, 99, in the country in the last three years. This was revealed by figures from the Union ministry of labour and employment, which states all other states in the country recorded 131 cases, between 2014 and 2016.

 The figures were for occupational diseases recorded from registered factories only. In 2014, Gujarat had 80 cases of hearing loss and 11 cases of silicosis. Silicosis is an occupational lung disease, caused by inhalation of crystalline silica dust and is marked by inflammation and scarring in the form of nodular lesions in the upper lobes of the lungs.
 
 The state recorded three cases of hearing loss in each of 2015 and 2016. In 2016, Gujarat reported one case of silicotuberculosis. The co-existence of silicosis and tuberculosis is known as silico-tuberculosis.
 
 Jagdish Patel, a labour rights activist, said that these figures are just the tip of the iceberg. Patel alleged that these cases are reported despite a lack of frequent inspections by factory inspectors, labour inspectors and officials of Employee’s State Insurance Corporation (ESIC).
 
 “There are legal provisions to ensure the safety of workers but as the government is not proactive on this issue, the number of cases are increasing in the state. These 99 cases may not be even 1% of the total cases,” Patel said.
 
 An email sent to the director of the   in Ahmedabad remained unanswered.
 
 An occupational disease is any chronic ailment that occurs as a result of work or occupational activity.
 
 Other states of the country are far behind Gujarat. In the same period, Maharashtra recorded 16 cases of occupational disease, which included six cases of irritant contact dermatitis, a form of contact dermatitis in which the skin is injured by friction, environmental factors such as cold, over-exposure to water or chemicals; four cases of silicosis; two cases of asbestosis - a chronic inflammatory and scarring disease affecting lung tissue, caused by inhalation of microscopic asbestos mineral fibres suspended in the air. Maharashtra also reported one case of bladder cancer and three case of chrome ulceration, an ulcer of the extremities or nasal septum produced by exposure to chromium compounds.
 
 Goa reported nine cases of lead poisoning and Odisha reported seven cases of silicosis in the same period. Telangana recorded one case of byssinosis, a rare lung disease caused by inhaling hemp, flax, and cotton particles which is sometimes referred to as brown lung disease.
 
