Ludhiana: Leader of the opposition in the state assembly and Senior Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Sukhpal Khaira, on Friday, slammed the ruling Congress government over law and order situation in Punjab. Khaira said numerous incidents of murder, rape, arson and loot have taken place during the first four months of the Congress rule. 

 Condemning the killing of Pastor Sultan Masih, who was shot dead by unidentified miscreants outside the church at Peeru Banda Muhalla of Saleem Tabri, he said there’s an increase in political murders, as well number of bank and ATM robberies. According to the opposition leader, life and property of the people in the state was not safe and that the CM had also admitted to the presence of a number of gangs. He visited the bereaved family members of the slain pastor. 
 
 Khaira was addressing his first press conference in Ludhiana as the leader of the opposition. Lok Insaf Party MLAs Simarjit Bains and Balwinder Bains also were present on the occasion.
 
 “Sultan Masih used to provide education to poor children. We have heard that he was under attack last year as well. Police should have taken account of these things. They have failed to arrest the accused even after six days of the incident, which is the failure of the police and administration,” said Khaira. He also criticised the DGP for his comment on “foreign involvement” in the incident. 
 
 “When we can’t justify something, we say Pakistan is behind such incidents. They should admit their failure,” he asserted. Khaira also accused the CM of prolonged absence. He said he came to Punjab only once when he went to Taran Tarn to pay homage to a martyr. 
 
 Despite Christians’ contribution to education and healthcare, Khaira said they have been at the receiving end across the country. “I think Right wing forces and the RSS cannot digest the good work done by them so they were trying to intimidate them. I don’t have evidence of that but the RSS and the VHP have been terrorizing people in the country. We won’t allow such things,” said Khaira.
 
 He underlined the need for a ‘full-time’ chief minister as Captain Amrinder Singh appears to be ‘tired, complacent, casual and careless’. He said the CM does not even have time to visit the families of the farmers who have ended their lives.
 
 Senior AAP leader said instead of going to Delhi to meet the Union finance minister for GST waiver for the Golden Temple, the government should bear enhanced expense of langar in religious places. He also slammed Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal for not raising the issue of GST on langar at Golden Temple directly with her colleague Arun Jaitley.
 
 
