NEW DELHI: A day after   held that loan defaulters must be dealt with iron hands, it convicted absconder industrialist   for  .

 A bench of Justices AK Goel and UU Lalit held him guilty on two grounds and directed him to personally appear before it on July 10 when the court would decide quantum of punishment to be awarded to him.
 
 The court passed the order on a contempt plea filed by a consortium of banks led by the SBI which sought action against Mallya for allegedly diverting $40 million to his children's accounts in foreign banks in violation of the court order.
 
 The apex court had started proceeding against Mallya and had issued notice to him on March 8, 2016 on the plea by banks for recovery of about Rs 9,000 crore which Mallya and his companies owed to them. He, however, managed to flee the country days before SC took up the case against him.
 
 Pleading the court to direct Mallya to bring back $40 million, which he received from Diageo, Attorney General had told the bench that Mallya had breached the SC order and his refusal to bring back the money had aggravated his breach and he should be directed to appear personally before the court.
 
 "He has taken court for ride and we are taking action to bring him back. He has not made a honest disclosure regarding $40 million. We don't know how to get back the money but majesty of court is very important and he must abide by court's order, " Attorney General Mukul Rohatgi had said.
 
 The court, however, had raised question on how its order, if it was passed against Mallya, would be executed as he was living in the UK. It asked the Attorney General to provide modalities under which its order would be implemented.
 
 Rohatgi, after taking instruction from the government, had informed the court that the Centre was already trying to deport him and SC order would further boost the process to bring him back to face various proceedings against him
 
 Mallya's counsel senior advocate C S Vaidyanathan strongly opposed any action against him and alleged that the businessman was being unnecessarily targetted by the government despite attaching properties worth of more than Rs 10,000 crore. He said that Mallya was not in a position to refund the money.
 
 "There is no violation of court's order as I was asked to give details of my assets and I provided all the information about assets I was holding on that day. I was not asked to provide all transaction so details about transferring on $40 million was not there. It is shocking that SC is trying to proceed against him. He is being targeted after his business model has failed and he is made poster boy of default when many other people have defaulted. in refunding the loan, " he had said.
 
 
 
 
