CHENNAI: Even though Australia have picked four spinners in the squad for the upcoming tour of India, former Australia pacer and bowling coach   believes it will be the pace combination of   and   who will play a major role in tackling   and Co during the four-Test series. In an exclusive interview with TOI, the 51-year-old opened up on the rise of left-arm pacer Starc, on Aussie spinners and tactics for Indian batsmen.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 I can't pick one. I think pacers Starc and Hazlewood will play a major role. Both of them are forming a good bowling partnership. Starc is a complete bowler now. He can bowl on flat wickets. He has got great reverse swinging abilities, particularly around the wicket, and has tremendous stamina. While Hazlewood reverses the ball back in, Starc can move it both ways. I'm looking forward to them performing well in India. But I think it's going to come down to whether Australia can get enough runs on the board.
 
 
 
 
 If you are bowling fast, then you bowl good lines and be patient. Both Starc and Hazlewood are patient and they should make sure they get their lengths right. If the wickets offer bounce, then they should use their pace to stick it up to the batsman's nose. It will be difficult in those conditions.
 
 
 
 
  is experienced while the other spinners are all young and they haven't had a lot of exposure. They shouldn't allow the batsmen to step back deep in the crease and cut or play square of the wicket. You have got to make the batsman play down the wicket using their feet, so that they get caught or stumped. Whatever it may be, you have to be more precise and not let the batsman dictate you.
 
 
 
 
 They should accept and handle the expectations of the team and the Australian public that they (as spinners) must take wickets in India. They shouldn't be frightened by those expectations. Everybody knows, if you don't play well, then you get dropped. There is no point in worrying about that, you just have to get down and do your job properly.
 
 
 
 
 I think they need   to teach them how to sweep. I was just joking! On a serious note, our batsmen failed to get runs in India in the last couple of series. Our top six didn't get runs; Starc, Siddle and Pattison got runs in that trip. Our top six have to stand up and make the bulk of the runs and give our bowlers something to bowl at.
 
 
 
 
 I think everybody has got their own opinion on how they should train for certain aspects. But I think when you are coming at the back of an Australian summer, it's handy to have some time on wickets that are not like Australian pitches. As they play so much cricket these days, they don't have more lead up games. When I was playing in a tour of India, we would have three or four first-class games before the first Test. So we had time to acclimatize. I feel a week or 10 days in Dubai and one tour match is wise.
 
