Chennai: The Class X and XII   are less than a month away and most   are almost ready making the arrangements and framing rules. Some these guidelines have, however, come under attack from parents who say there are too many restrictions for students. 

 Writing exams barefoot, not bringing  , pencil pouches (some schools allow transparent pouches), water bottles or wrist watches are a few of the rules that have irked some parents who have demanded an uniform exam advisory.
 
 “Every year, schools design rules according to their whims and fancies. Many of these rules are brought in by schools and not necessarily the state government. When we tried contacting education department officials regarding some of these rules, they said there were no such rules prescribed by the department. We should make exam writing an easy process for the children and not more cumbersome,” said Keshavan, a parent and educational activist.
 
 A teacher at a state board school in the city who wished to remain anonymous said most of the rules were to ensure there were no malpractices. In the past, many students were found carrying ‘slips with answers’ in socks or watches into the exam hall.
 
 A majortiy of the rules are absurd, say most parents. “Students are made to leave their footwear outside the exam hall in some schools and writing barefoot just makes no sense. I am also not convinced about the quality of water given in the school. Especially during exam season, I would prefer my children to take bottled water from home for health reasons,” said Aravind, another parent.
 
 With pencil boxes or pencil pouches banned, students have to carry pencils, pens, ruler, eraser and sharpener in their hands and many tend to lose them in classrooms, others said.
 
 A few others opined that a uniform advisory from the state government should be issued to make things easier. “Each school can impose its own rules but ultimately students are not comfortable. A common advisory can reduce unnecessary rules and also make schools accountable at the same time,” pointed out Keshavan.
 
 
