JALANDHAR:   (BSP), which came on the scene before AAP and remained a potential third alternative in Punjab for long, has overlooked its 10 out of 12 candidates who secured highest votes among all the party nominees in the 2012 assembly elections. Out of these 12, five have joined other parties, two are not contesting and only two have been repeated.

 Notably, 11 out of those 12 seats important for BSP were in Doaba. The party has good vote share in several pockets and holds the balance. As its vote share increased in   in the 2012, SAD won most of these seats.
 
 Punjab BSP president Avtar Singh Karimpuri, who is contesting from Phillaur from where party had polled maximum votes in the previous assembly election, has been claiming that there is upsurge among the party supporters at the ground level. He says the party would be able to win several seats due to four-cornered contests. Karimpuri's can didature from the seat has sent the other three parties -the Congress, SAD and AAP -in a tizzy and the party expects to win the seat.
 
 Baldev Singh Khaira, who had polled 42,328 votes in Phillaur --maximum among all BSP candidates -is a SAD candidate from the same seat.
 
 Second highest performer was Jarnail Nangal who polled 26,165 votes in Phagwara.Earlier, he joined the Congress but after it became clear that he was not getting party ticket he joined the Bains brothers' Lok Insaaf Party . He has now been fielded by AAP-LIP combine from Phagwara. Third highest BSP performer Sukhwinder Kotli, who secured over 25,000 votes from Adampur, is not in the fray this time. Party performed well in Nawanshahr also where its candidate Vinod Kumar Seeta got over 29,000 votes. He shot himself in June 2015.
 
 Three other leaders, who secured over 20,000 votes in the previous elections, Sumitar Sikri (Sham Chaurasi constituency), Shiv Ram (Balachaur) and Arjan Singh (Kharar) have also shifted to the Congress.
 
 The two candidates who had performed well in the last election and have been fielded this time by Mayawati's party include: Rajinder from Banga and Gurlal Saila from Garhshankar, who now has been shifted to Chabbewal.
 
 BSP leaders, who switched over to other parties, made this over to other parties, made this decision after party supremo Mayawati announced in a rally at Nawanshahr on March 15, 2016, that party would go solo in Punjab and there would be no alliance. “Mayawati herself became chief minister in UP three times after forming alliance, and it was only after that her fourth term came when party contested alone. In Punjab, the party won its first parliament seat way back in 1989, when it had an alliance with SAD (Mann) and then won three seats it contested in 1996, in alliance with Parkash Singh Badal-led SAD. But the party supremo has been refusing the replicate the UP model here,“ said a senior BSP leader.
 
 While party had nine MLAs in 1992, when all factions of SAD had boycotted the election, its lone MLA in 1997, was Shingara Ram Shahungra who is already out of the party fold.
 
