HYDERABAD: Rattled by Special Investigation Team's ' ' to hunt down all those peddling narcotic substances in the city, peddlers are reportedly disposing of   in their possession. Some peddlers flushed blots, cocaine and MDMA tablets in toilets, while others burnt and disposed of their ashes to save themselves from the police dragnet.

 On the other hand, the Operation Drug Bust has not been a smooth ride for the   too. “It has been giving them tense moments and one of our officers even suffered an injury while apprehending a peddler,“ an excise official said.
 
 After the arrest of Calvin Mascrenhas, 29, Mohammed Abdul Wahed, 20, and his elder brother Mohammed Abdul Quddus, 29, on July 2 for being in possession of 700 blots of LSD worth Rs 20 lakh and 35 grams of MDMA worth Rs 1.4 lakh, many peddlers and consumers became alert.
 
 However, it was the second round of arrests on July 4 that set the cat among the pigeons and jolted many from their psychedelic dreams. Just two days after the initial arrests, the excise sleuths nabbed Kundan Singh, 23, a BBA graduate operating a car rental company , Aman Naidu, 25, an engineer working at a gaming company , V   , 23, a computer engineer from Bowenpally , and V  , 34, an engineering graduate operating a yoga studio, for possession of 100 units of LSD.
 
 After the second round of arrests, drug peddlers realised that cops were serious about their business this time and they might have analysed the cell phone data of the arrested culprits. Though they had arrested six more peddlers later, all the subsequent raids of the excise sleuths on suspects were not so fruitful.
 
 “About six to seven offenders against whom we have evidence that they were into peddling, have managed to dispose of the drugs in their possession.When we raided their houses and offices, no narcotic substances were found. At least six of them confessed that they had disposed of the drugs after the initial arrests.
 
  Some claimed they had flushed the drugs in the toilet, while others burnt them and threw away the ashes,“ an excise official said.Though no drugs were found with them, due to available scientific evidence, cops are still questioning the suspects for information. During the first ro und of arrests, assistant excise superintendent   suffered a tendon tear in his right arm while trying to arrest Calvin.
 
 Initially, the excise sleuths suspected that Calvin was the key offender, but the evidence gathered so far points a needle at Nikhil Shetty , a computer engineer from Bowenpally . Police might take Nikhil and others into custody in the next few days.
 
