KOLKATA: On Saturday , Subhabrata Chatterjee realised that something was different after he stepped into the   from   with his family . The seats weren't the same. The fittings inside the coach seemed different as well. A daily commuter, Chatterjee was aware that   (ER) has received a couple of EMU rakes from BEML, but this one didn't look new. It was his 10-year-old son who spotted the biggest difference of all.

 “Look at the screens,“ the child said, pointing to two display boards hanging from the ceiling inside the compartment. Chatterjee looked up and read a message in Devanagari script scrolling across the screen: 'Bharatiya Relve Vara screen: 'Bharatiya Relve Vara Apale Svagata Ahe'. He was foxed. Had his family got transported to a suburban train in Mumbai? Why else would the display board be scrolling a welcome message in Marathi.What he wasn't aware of is that ER has started receiving some `hand-me-down' EMU rakes from the Western and  .
 
 “There is nothing wrong in this. These rakes are relatively new and in perfect condition.They are simply being replaced in WR and CR by more advanced rakes. These railways have also started receiving air conditioned rakes. As modern rakes are delivered to these two zones, older ones will be sent elsewhere. It's natural that ER will get most of them as Kolkata has the second largest suburban network after Mumbai. ER is in the need for more EMU coaches as it is increasing the composition of existing rakes. The last rake reached ER from WR about three months ago,“ an official from the Railway Board said.
 
 ER has 165 EMU rakes and uses them to run 1,371 services in the  . With the demand for more services increasing, ER has been forced to add more been forced to add more coaches to local trains. Initially, EMU locals used to have nine coaches, which was increased to 10 and now a large number of trains have 12 coaches. The number of coaches have been increased in all routes where the length of platforms was increased. ER officials say the capacity of local trains have now gone up by 33%.
 
 According to the Railway Board official, BEML and ICF are in the process of supplying new coaches to ER. The older rakes are gradually getting replaced and after the some time, there will be a significant number of stainless steel coaches in operation. ER also plans to use the additional facilities in the coaches from WR and CR, like display boards and public announcement systems and the process is on to change the content. Before long, passengers may get to see the message: 'Bharatiya Rail aapnakey svagato janay' on the display board.
 
 “ER has also got three modified EMU rakes from Southern Railway. The MEMUs will replace conventional rakes in passenger trains,“ an official said.
 
