With the curtains set to come down on the 57th edition of   on Sunday, the Malabar districts are engaged in a keen battle for the top position to win gold cup.

 Palakkad, Kannur, and the champion district for last ten years, Kozhikode, are in the forefront of the close race for the coveted title. Palakkad district is leading with 894 points, while Kozhikode and host Kannur are in second and third positions respectively with 893 and 891 points. Thrissur district is in the fourth position having secured 877 points.
 
 In the previous edition of the fest, at Thiruvananthapuram, it was Kozhikode's tenth consecutive win, a rally that began with the 47th state school arts festival that was held in Kannur. Kozhikode had won 919 points while Palakkad and Kannur bagged 914 and 908 points respectively. In 2015, Palakkad district shared the championship title with Kozhikode, which hosted the fest.
 
 This time, the BSS Gurukulam Higher Secondary School, Alathur, in Palakkad district is leading the school point tally of both high school and higher secondary categories, respectively, with 98 and 123 points. Last year, the school was top in high school category while the MKNMHS, Idukki, topped in high school category When the Arabic Kalolsavam held as part of the fest concluded on Saturday, Kozhikode, Kollam, Kannur and Thrissur districts were in top positions with 95 points each. Kasaragod, Palakkad and Malappuram districts are in second position with 91 points each and Ernakulam district is in third position securing 90 points.
 
 All major venues of the fest witnessed huge turnouts on the sixth day also. The highlights of the day were group dance, Kerala Nadanam, light music, Sanskrit drama and Vanchippattu. The   (Boys) which was scheduled to conclude at 2 pm at the main venue ended at 4.15 pm. The delay affected the schedule of group dance event for High School (Girls) also held here. Meanwhile, the number of appeal entries in the fest has crossed 1,500, which is a record in the decade-long history of school arts fest.
 
 Competitions in folksong, patriotic songs, Chendamelam and Vanchippattu would be held on Sunday . The concluding ceremony of the fest would be held at the main venue of the fest at 4 pm.
 
 Opposition leader   would inaugurate the ceremony and magician Gopinath Muthukad would be the chief guest at the function. Education minister C Raveendranath will give away the gold cup and other trophies to the winners.
 
