HYDERABAD: Call it a classic case of law enforcers breaking the law if you will, but at a time when the city's traffic police department has been slapping challans and hefty fines on citizens caught violating traffic norms, particularly the helmet rule, cops continue to flout the law with impunity.

 What makes this utter disregard for the law even more appalling and ironic is that most of these cops were found brazenly breaking the law while in uniform.
 
 In the past 10 months, over 1300 policemen, including traffic cops, were booked for traffic violations, traffic police department officials admit. Two months after the penalty point system was introduced in the city, over 300 police officials have been booked for driving without helmets.
 
 According to data provided by the traffic police department, as many as 106285 people were booked in the city in the past two months for not wearing helmets and seat belts while driving.
 
 However, the police department claims that it is now cracking the whip on errant cops to ensure that they make it a habit of practicing what they preach.
 
 “Cops booked for traffic violations have been asked to cough up fines. Also, we are conducting several awareness programmes among various police departments, particularly traffic department, so that such instances are not repeated,“ said Anurag Sharma, Director General of Police, Telangana.
 
 “The department is also taking disciplinary action against errant cops. Traffic offences will be linked to the ir increments and promotions so that they don't repeat such behaviour,“ said Deputy Commissioner of Police (traffic) A V Ranganath, admitting that on an average they get 100 to 150 complaints of cops violating traffic norms every month.
 
 Agreeing, V Ravinder, joint commissioner of police,  , said: “We get complaints against cops on social media and come across violations on CCTV as well. We have obser ved that after disciplinary action is initiated, the cops who violated the norms, are not repeating their mistake.“
 
 Interestingly, JCP Ravinder claimed that most of the cops found flouting the helmet rule are from the law and order department, while the number of traffic cops doing so is comparatively less.
 
 However, road safety experts said that the number of cases booked against cops should have been higher. “We have seen police officials sling their helmets on their arm while driving and put it on at junctions or check points where CCTV cameras are positioned. There are many cases that go unreported,“ said Vinod Kumar Kanumala, founder, Indian Federation of Road Safety , an NGO.
 
 “One of the key reasons riders violate this traffic rule is because they feel helmets are uncomfortable and block their vision. Cops too think no differently while driving,“ said DCP Ranganath.
 
