BENGALURU: Close on the heels of alleging that chief minister   and his government in Karnataka had sent Rs 1,000 crore to its party high command, BJP state president   on Sunday alleged that Rs 65 crore has been received by chief minister Siddaramaiah’s “family and close associates” in the awarding of the controversial   between Chalukya circle and Hebbal in Bengaluru.

 Speaking to the media, claiming that he has in his possession a supposed copy of the information from a diary maintained by Congress MLC Govindraju, who was raided earlier last month by the I-T department, Yeddyurappa said the evidence was damning.
 
 “The diary records a deal of Rs 150 crore, which has been sealed with middlemen for the steel bridge contract. Of this, Rs 65 crore has already been dispatched to the congress. It has been received in the name of CM’s family and close associates,” alleged Yeddyurappa.
 
 The BJP state president said the Rs 65 crore was part of the recordings in the diary which has now been seized by the I-T department and probed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED).
 
 “Why is the Congress government so hell bent upon the steel bridge, despite the entire populace opposing the project. What is this special commitment towards this particular project, which is being pushed so vehemently by the government?” question Yeddyurappa.
 
 Despite repeated questions, Yeddyurappa refused to state whether he had actually got a copy of the diary or only received information about the entries.
 
 “The onus is on the CM to prove that such entries are not made against his name in the diary seized from Govindraju’s house,” claimed Yeddyurappa.
 
 The BJP state president said the steel bridge was already under the scanner of the national green tribunal with   having filed a petition in this regard.
 
 “With such being the case, the contents of the diary will automatically surface. Is the CM ready resign?” asked Yeddyurappa.
 
 He said the BJP was going to go out on the streets and question Siddaramaiah on the kickbacks he has recieved at every rally and event in the state entire state.
 
 The Yeddyurappa camp said the BJP state president had in fact gotten hold of a copy of the diary entries, based on which the information was being provided.
 
 Reacting to the charges, Siddaramaiah in Mysuru dismissed the allegations and said: “Listening to him is like listening Bhagavadgeetha from the devil’s mouth. The charges and allegation made by Yeddyurappa, who was jailed while he was chief minister of the state is baseless and far from truth. He is a liar, who for the sake of publicity and just to tarnish the image of the government is talking without any supportive documents or evidence. Let him come out with any allegation we are not bothered at the same time if need arises we give reply.”
 
