MANGALURU: One State, Many Worlds sums up Karnataka tourism. These many worlds takes a discerning traveller through many facets of the state up close and personal with a slice of history as one traverses through its length and breadth. An important part of this world is the coast, which has its own charm for tourists who love beaches and clean ones at those. Karnataka offers this in abundance with its nearly 320-km long coastline straddling three districts.

 Underscoring the importance of coastal tourism for the overall growth of tourism in Karnataka, the department of tourism has pumped in a lot of money in the coast, says   Singh, secretary of the department. “Out of the Rs 35 crore that we have invested, Rs 10 crore has come from the Union government,” Naveen says adding this amount is being spent on improving facilities in 12 beaches in  , Udupi and   districts.
 
 Emphasising that coastal tourism is not just about these 12 beaches or more, Naveen told STOI that it also focusses on places of tourism attraction 10-12-km from the coast. “While no talk of coastal tourism is complete without its beaches, we are focusing on places – known or otherwise on the fringes of the coast such as   in Uttara Kannada district,” the secretary says. Yana, a village, is located in the forests and is known for the unusual karst rock formations
 
 Sasihithlu in Dakshina Kannada is now the emerging hotspot of coastal tourism thanks to the hype generated by the maiden edition of India Open of Surfing organized by Surfing Federation of India. “This idyllic location was hitherto a virgin unexplored territory and shot in to prominence with the surfing event held there last year,” says  , chief executive officer, Panambur Beach Tourism Development Project, closely associated in promoting surfing.
 
 The Union government too is proactive in promoting coastal tourism potential of Karnataka. This can be envisaged from the fact that it has approved an Rs 94 crore funding for the coastal circuit in the state. “A master plan drawn up for this on advice from our consultants has been approved based on local inputs provided by tourism consultants, stakeholders and district administration,” Naveen Raj said adding it will focus on connectivity, beautification and amenities.
 
 PLANS FOR MARINE/COASTAL TOURISM
 
 ** Cruise of international standards in Mangaluru/Karwar through appropriate PPP frameworks.
 
 ** Coracles, catamarans, traditional sail boats and houseboats at select destinations
 
 MEASURES
 
 Strengthening of coastal transport system to move people along the coast and also support cruise tourism activities. – Karnataka Tourism Policy 2015-20.
 
