NAGPUR: The   (RMH) on Chhindwara road, under scanner after an inmate’s murder came to fore this week, may be rocked once again as police probe into death of 70-year-old woman inmate is leading to possibility of it being a murder too. The woman, identified as Malati Pathak, is learnt to have several injury marks on her neck but post-mortem report is awaited for confirmation.

 On Thursday, Mankapur police applied  , 144 days after registering accidental death of inmate Jayant Nerkar. On Friday, they under Zonal DCP   and others spent considerable time at the mental hospital premises questioning patients and staffers. As the cops began probing Nerkar’s murder, foul play behind Malati’s death too started emerging.
 
 A staggering 36 inmates have died in the hospital since August 2015 with 25 of them in last 10 months.
 
 It is learnt police have already got a major breakthrough in Nerkar’s murder who was strangled to death while sleeping in September last year. Sources claimed that a fellow inmate, already convicted for murder of his wife, is now set to be arrested. He is learnt to have strangled Nerkar with his shirt in the night following a dispute between the two in the past. Incidentally, it was Mankapur police’s report before a court that paved way for admission of Nerkar at the hospital couple just a of months prior to the murder. Police and executive magistrate, who performed the formalities for post-mortem, were clueless in the begining as there was no apparent injury on his body. 
 
 It is learnt the forensic experts of   who had performed post-mortem on Pathak came across strange marks on her neck. It is clear what delayed the furnishing of post-mortem report of Pathak, who had died in October last year, to the police. Malati was lodged in the women’s section after being sent from Government shelter home. 
 
 Police sources claimed procedural delay was behind late registration of the offence as copies of post-mortem report are given to executive magistrate, state human rights commission and also police. A senior officer said the report reaches police quite late after it is first referred to executive magistrate.
 
 Dr Pravin Nawkhade, medical superintendent of mental hospital, said there was a manpower crunch and there was a need of   surveillance too. “We have already sent proposal for installation of CCTVs within the ward. They would go a long way in preventing such incidents,” he said. 
 
