A group of 15   misbehaved with three women at the   (KSLTA) and also forced them to   on  . Based on the complaint and the  , one person has been arrested.

 One of the three women who faced harassment is the wife of an assistant commissioner of the commercial tax department, a member of the KSLTA. He was furious with the association staff and security for not protecting them and letting the accused escape.
 
 In damage control exercise, the KSLTA management sent him an apology email, checked the CCTV footage and identified one of the accused, based on which, the   police made the arrest.
 
 The couple had gone to the club with their extended family to celebrate the New Year. About half-an-hour after midnight, a group of men, who were reportedly drunk and partying inside, approached the 36-year-old woman and two others, demanding that they pose for selfies with them. The woman’s husband and her brother-in-law had gone to get food from the buffet counters.
 
 Noticing that the women were alone, the men had tried to misbehave.
 
 The women not only refused to pose for pictures but also warned the trouble-makers. When their companions returned and saw the harassment, they pushed away the unruly men. Though the assistant commissioner and his brother tried to catch the main culprit, the other accused in the group helped him escape. “The staff and security at the KSLTA club house did nothing to help us catch the accused or protect us from them, while they charged at us. Instead, they allowed the men to go out of the club premises. The trouble-makers were neither members nor guests. Of the 15, the police have arrested one person and we have identified him at the police station,” said the assistant commissioner.
 
 The arrested man has been identified as Shivaraj. “He works as a driver for one of the suppliers of KSLTA. A case of unlawful assembly (IPC 149), gesture intended to insult the modesty of a woman (IPC 509) and misconduct in public by a drunken person (510) has been registered against him,” said a policeman.
 
 PR Ramaswamy, joint secretary at KSLTA, said: “After the incident came to our notice, we immediately checked the CCTV footage and the member’s wife also viewed the footage and identified one of the accused. He works as the driver to one of our suppliers. The same footage was handed over to the police.”
 
 
