INDORE: On Saturday district court premises was packed with mediapersons, lawyers, policemen and relatives of the accused who waited in anticipation for the verdict in the high-profile   murder.

  and   maintained a stone-faced while CBI special judge BK Paloda pronounced the sentence, while Shaquib and Tabish squirmed, standing adjacent to them in the box designated for the accused.
 
 The drama at district court started around noon, when Tabish, Irfan and Shaquib were brought in jail bus under heavy security. Thirty minutes later when Saba and Zahida were brought under heavy police security there was excitement and anxiety among the waiting crowd. Police made the two women sit in the bus for nearly an hour, before escorting them to court’s prison while wading through a sea of photojournalists trying to click the two.
 
 By around 2 pm, judge BK Paloda summoned the accused to his courtroom. Zahida and Saba were asked by the court orderly to remove their footwear before they got into the box, but they flatly refused. “We will not be throwing slippers at the judge,” they firmly told the court staff.
 
 Soon after the judgment was announced, Shaquib’s wife got close to the box and broke down. She was later escorted out by her relatives.
 
 With the verdict read out, Saba and Zahida were taken to the parked jail bus. On this occasion, Saba removed the veil that she had used to hide her face and turned around shouting that injustice was meted out at them. “CBI’s pressure on the court is evident. On what basis was the judgment pronounced. We were first made witness and then accused,” Saba told reporters, while being taken away from the court.
 
 She claimed that Irfan, who turned an approver in the case, had told the court that he did not know her and Zahida. “The main accused has been left out by CBI and we are made the scapegoats,” she alleged, while sitting inside the jail bus.
 
 Shaquib made similar allegations claiming that clinching evidence was provided by his lawyers against the CBI and its line of investigating that aimed at implicating them. “You have all the evidence. Why don’t you raise the issue,” he shouted at the mediapersons, with teary eyes.
 
 Among the accused, Irfan was beaming. He was pardoned by the court for his role in proving the charges against the rest after turning an approver. “Doodh ka doodh, paani ka paani ho gaya (clarity was attained and truth has emerged),” he said.
 
 In the initial chargesheet, Irfan was considered to have fired the shot that killed Shehla, but investigations later revealed that Tabish was the one who pressed the trigger, CBI lawyer Atul Kumar said.
 
 
