HYDERABAD: After a damp squib in the last Budget, authorities of various colleges in city expressed optimism over the announcement of reforms in   (UGC) and granting of autonomous status to higher educational institutions in this Budget.

 Last year, of 575 colleges that were awarded autonomous status, a meagre 9% (53) were from Telangana. Several other colleges vying for autonomous status were left thoroughly disappointed.
 
 In this Budget, finance minister   assured that reforms will lead to greater administrative and academic autonomy to educational institutions, subject to their performance. This move, college managements believe, will strengthen the functioning of colleges. “We welcome the decision as it will leverage academic and administrative functioning of colleges. The UGC has been very stringent in terms of awarding autonomous status to colleges. However, we hope that the new reforms will provide more freedom to college managements in decision-making,“ said  , secretary of Sultan-Ul-Ulo om Educational Society , which is keen to seek autonomous status for its engineering college Muffakham Jah College of Engineering.
 
 Soon after the budget was announced, other college managements vying to seek autonomy for a long time now, were equally upbeat. According to sources, there are dozens of such engineering colleges in Hyderabad, which have been trying to seek autonomy ever since 2002.
 
 According to the UGC guidelines, the objective of awarding autonomy to colleges is to provide colleges freedom to determine and prescribe their own courses of study and syllabi, prescribe rules for admission, evolve methods of assessment of students' performance and conduct examinations.Universities view the move as a positive development as colleges will now independently function without much intervention. While colleges will have the freedom to function, degrees will continue to be awarded by the parent university .
 
 Industry experts opine that the status will provide new opportunities for colleges to apply for additional grants from the UGC under various schemes. “It is a good move as the Central government seems keen on awarding autonomous status to more colleges, apart from regular funding that the colleges get. They can also apply for additional funds,“ said Goutham Rao, president of the Telangana Private Engineering Colleges Association.
 
