Queen Victoria's most intimate link to the `jewel in the crown' was an Indian orderly named   who cooked her curry and taught her  . She created quite a stir by trying to knight him.  , author of 
 , tells Manimugdha S. Sharma more about this special relationship that has now been brought alive in a film starring  

 
  
 
 
  When I started research, the impression I had of Queen Victoria was that of a very formidable person, dressed in black, who represented Empire, the crushing of the Mutiny and the seizure of the Kohinoor. But as I read her letters and journals, I realised how much she loved India and Indians. She defends Indians against the royal household and her own family. She sends them stern memos when she senses they are being racist. So it is a different side to Victoria that emerges in my book. She was definitely ahead of her time and different to everyone in the court and administration. The fact that there was a young Indian at the heart of the royal court is significant. It had never happened before and has not happened since.
 
 
  
 
 
  As Queen Victoria could not go to India because of the long sea journey, the country came to her in the form of Abdul Karim. He told her about the beauty of the Taj Mahal and the festivals of India, he cooked her curry, even taught her Urdu. He even told her about Hindu-Muslim riots and political tensions, giving her an insight into the real India.
  
 
  
 
 
  The household hated Karim because he was an Indian -a subject race -placed at a position of importance (her personal secretary) by the queen. They also hated him because he was a commoner. So, there were elements of both race and class snobbery. They were jealous that the queen was showering him with gifts, giving him land, houses and titles.
 
  The British administration was suspicious of Muslims, as they felt that the Mutiny had been led in the name of the last Mughal emperor. They tried to accuse Karim of being a spy for the emir of Afghanistan as he had a friend in the Muslim Patriotic League. They had him followed when he went on holiday in India, but could pin nothing on him.
 
  When all else failed they threatened to resign collectively if the queen continued to favour the munshi.
 
 
  
 
 
  I think it is hugely significant that Queen Victoria learnt Urdu for 13 years. It is a part of Victorian history that was completely unknown. It would be a pity if a rich and beautiful language like Urdu was allowed to fade away. It is a part of the shared history of India and   that both countries should remember.
 
 
  
 
 
  The queen had very good relations with the Indian maharajas. They often visited her and many were invited to her jubilee celebrations. She had great respect for Sir Pertab, the maharaja of Jodhpur. She was also very fond of the maharaja of Cooch Behar, Nripendra Narayan, and his wife Sunity Devi. Sunity Devi was the first Indian maharani to visit Britain and a guest at the Golden Jubilee celebrations in 1887.
 
  Another special relationship was with the young Maharaja Duleep Singh, the last ruler of Punjab, who came to stay with her after the conquest of the Punjab. Later in life, Duleep Singh went into rebellious mode against her but she continued to be very fond of his wife and children. Towards the end of his life, Duleep Singh visited her in France and begged forgiveness. She forgave him but the whole episode saddened her.
  
 
  
 
 
  Many Indians did not like the British administration, but they respected the monarch. In fact, her biggest memorial is in Kolkata -the Victoria Memorial. The money for it was raised by public subscription after her death.
 
 
  
 
 
  King Edward VII burnt all letters written by Victoria to Abdul and ordered a raid on his house. Abdul was asked to leave, as were the other Indians. Suddenly there were no more colourful turbans in the court, no curries cooking in the royal kitchens. It was a classic display of “foreigners go home“ and Brexit Britain. Racism still continues not just in Britain, but across the world, so the story feels relevant even today.
 
 
