KOLKATA: Even as the city ushered in the  ,   spent the December 31 night at the  , anxious and apprehensive. But the family managed to tide over the crisis and celebrated the New Year on Tuesday, when Bhoot returned from the   that he had been staring at last few days.

 With failing kidneys, the 59-year-old businessman from Howrah had lost almost all chances of survival. Even as doctors had advised kidney transplant, his family could not find a matching donor. But a glimmer of hope shone on the family on Christmas when the kin of Surabhi Barat decided to donate the organs. The 22-year old was declared brain dead at Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals, Kolkata. Bhoot got one of her kidneys. 
 
 “What better gift I could have asked for in the new year when I got a new life? Surabhi Barat has gifted me life in her death. I do not know how to thank her family,” said Bhoot, choked with emotions. 
 
 Suffering from stage V chronic kidney disease, Bhoot was on dialysis under doctor VV Lakshminarayan at the hospital. So when Surabhi’s family decided to donate her organs, doctors found that Bhoot was a matching recipient. 
 
 “We have a list of about 25 patients for kidney transplant. If more families of brain-dead patients come forward to donate organs, we can save more lives,” said Dr VV Lakshminarayan. 
 
 “Though all kidney-transplant surgeries are important, this one was special because the donor was brain dead,” said Dr Vinay Mahendra, whose team had conducted the transplant surgery.
 
 The patient was under close watch for eight days. Considering the marked improvement in Bhoot’s health, the medical team was confident of discharging him on Tuesday.
 
 “The past one year has been tough for my father and the family. He is going back home finally with a new lease of life and we have all reasons to celebrate,” said son Manmohan. 
 
 Surabhi was fighting brain tumour since she was 15. Aware of deceased organ donation from media reports, her family did not think twice to give their consent. The second kidney from Surabhi was transplanted into Priyotosh Naskar, 32, at SSKM Hospital while Rlja Uvalic, 57, got the liver at Apollo. Their condition was stated to be stable but they are yet to be discharged.
 
 “We are happy at the outcome of the transplant and wish a long and healthy life for Bijay Kumar Bhoot. We are thankful to the state health officials, whose prompt support and guidance helped us deliver this outcome,” said Dr Rupali Basu, President and CEO ER, Apollo Hospitals Group, India.
 
 
