VARANASI: Bid to carry out peace march by some students following night-long violence on   campus was foiled by police on Sunday morning.

 Inmates of Mahila Mahavidyalaya (MMV) hostel and students from other hostels started peace march from MMV crossing. Their silent march was headed towards Vishwanath temple. On noticing the procession, police and PAC personnel stopped them near Hindi department and asked them to return to their hostels. But, when the students became rigid police used force to disperse the gathering.
  
 The violence spread after cane charge on a group of students staging demonstration outside vice chancellor (VC) lodge continued on the hostel road on campus till 3 pm. About a dozen of students including girls, seven policemen including SP City Dinesh Singh and a cameraman of local daily suffered injuries in this violence. Large number of students also started quitting the hostels for their home as the varsity is closed between till October 2 on behalf of festivities.
 
  
  
 The district magistrate Yogeshwar Ram Mishra and SSP RK Bhardwaj camped on campus to monitor the peace keeping exercises.
  
 Disturbance on BHU campus had started from Thursday night following alleged sexual assault on a girl student of Triveni hostel. Angered over it, inmates of almost all girl hostels blocked the BHU main gate since Friday morning and staged massive demonstration demanding their proper security on campus. Some groups of protesters returned to their hostels after holding talks with VC. But, one group of girl students remained rigid that they will continue stir until VC GC Tripathi reaches the agitation venue for talks.
 
  
  
 After repeated efforts to pacify situation till Saturday late night, BHU spokesman Rajesh Singh claimed that all   had returned to their hostels and those continuing protest are outsiders. Within few minutes of this announcement of university administration police swung into action that led to massive violence. The protesters also started live streaming of violence on social media.
 
 
 
