Ludhiana: After TOI highlighted the issue of illegal and unregistered ambulances plying on city roads, traffic police has taken strict action against violators. This is the first time such an action has been taken. 

 Officials impounded five ambulances, including three in front of CMCH, two of them had fake number plates. Two ambulances were impounded from DMCH under the Motor Vehicle Act for alteration of body structure, not possessing permission and nonpayment of taxes.
 
 One of the two ambulances that had a fake number plate was registered as a Pulsar motorcycle and the other was registered as a Splendor motorcycle. Drivers of both ambulances said the vehicles were bought from Dada Motors. A meeting will be held with the owner of the company to resolve the issue. 
 
 In January, police impounded seven ambulances. That same month, police also called for a meeting with drivers to discuss regular monitoring of private ambulances around hospitals. Many of them have not been registered and are being operated illegally. 
 
 Even modified cars without medical facilities like emergency kits, ventilators and ECG monitors are being used as ambulances. ADCP, traffic Dhruv Dhaiya said SUVs and cars are being run as ambulances after modifications. According to him, people get SUVs or mini-buses registered and use them as ambulances after installing the blue beacon and ambulance hooters. But they do not provide the same services, he clarified.
 
 Traffic police have now warned ambulance drivers to get vehicles registered and pay tax. Regular drives will be conducted to prevent plying of illegal ambulances and cheating. 
 
 Naresh Kaler, motor vehicle inspector, district transport office said they would look into the technicalities of ambulances that come for registration. “First, they have to get a certificate or drawing passed from the state transport commissioner, Punjab. This is not an easy task for them as they have to make amendments and design and equip their vehicle with basic health infrastructure,” he said. 
 
 Officials in the health department said there are enough ambulances on the roads. Those who are willing to modify their SUVs and other vehicles will have to check standard ambulances equipped with emergency kits, medicines and patient transport equipment that are life saving in emergency situations, they said. The ADCP, traffic said regular patrolling will be conducted to monitor ambulances and police will get in touch with the ambulance drivers’ union to get them registered. 
 
 
