KOCHI: After the 13-hour questioning along with actor Dileep in June, ac tor-director Nadirsha was again interrogated by the special investigation team (SIT) in connection with the actor rape case, at the Aluva police club on Sunday.

 Nadirsha, who could not be questioned by police due to ill health on Friday, was quizzed on Sunday after being certified `fit' by a doctor.
 
 The actor who arrived at the police club around 10am left by around 3pm. Rural SP A V   said that the actor cooperated fully with the SIT. “I can't reveal what he said. He was questioned and his statement was recorded,“ said George.
 
 The actor told the media outside the police club that he believed that Dileep was innocent. “The police did not force or intimidate me to give a statement that would trap Dileep. Many had warned me about such a possibility,“ he said.
 
 “Since there are many rumours linking me to the case, it was necessary for me to appear before the SIT.I was a little afraid about appearing before the SIT as it was my first time dealing with the police and court,“ he said.
 
 “I told police that I did not hand over any money to Pulsar  . If I hadn't gi ven a satisfactory answer then there would have been a case registered against me by now,“ the actor said.
 
 “I did not know that Suni had called me. I recorded the calls that came to me and handed them over to police. I realized that the caller was Suni only when police informed me that it was him. I have told police what I had to. The rest, the police and court will decide,“ he said.
 
 Meanwhile, the Angamaly magistrate court is set to decide on Dileep's bail plea on Monday.
 
  producer approaches police
 
 Kochi: Tomichan Mulakuppadam, the producer of Dileep-starrer Ramaleela, has approached the police regarding a social media post against his film by G P Ramachandran, an executive member of the  . In a complaint to Kochi range IG P Vijayan, he alleged that Ramachandran urged people to smash the cinema halls that would screen the movie.
 
 The posts, made on September 14, were later withdrawn by Ramachandran saying that he did it on the spur of the moment.
 
