(By - Shuchita Jha)

 BHOPAL: A serene wave of mythological aura will soon greet you when you pay a visit to the state tribal museum restaurant, as its ceiling is being revamped to be painted in colors that symbolize ancient Hindu mythology. 
 
 Paintings of 'nav graha' will soon be seen on the ceiling, work for which has already commenced.   director Vandana Panday said, "Ancient palaces used to have intricately decorated ceilings. Each and every peice of art was paid attention to by the architects, but that tradition was lost with time. But we have decided to go with it and have roped in a tribal artist who has 27 years of experience in tribal art and painting. We have left the task to his imagination. Three out of the nine grahas have already been completed." 
 
 Ram Singh Urwati, the artist tasked with painting the nav grahas on the ceiling said, "I am drawing inspiration from Hindu mythology and tribal art. These paintings are an amalgamation of my imagination and popular elements of tribal art. I am mostly using acrylic colors which have a glazing effect."
 
 The detailed paintings of Surya, Rahu and   have been completed and Shani is under process. 
 
 "You can see the seven horses and the chariot of   in the central painting. I have only used three colours mainly red, yellow and green and the background is black and navy blue to signify the rising sun in contrast to the night," Ram Singh further explained. Giving a detailed description about Rahu and Ketu, he said, "You can see the serpant like form of Rah, holding a shield and sword. In the Ketu painting kamal- the vahan of ketu is clearly visible and you can also see his three heads. I have used red and black in the Rahu painting to show his anger and strict nature while I have used orange and yellow in Ketu." 
 
 The entire task involving the renovation of the ceiling is expected to be completed in the next two months. The project is being funded by the state government and a budget of Rs 6 lakh has been sanctioned for the task.
 
