BENGALURU: The   overcame another legal hurdle on Tuesday, when a petition filed before the   (NGT) questioning the Centre’s environmental clearance for the project was withdrawn.

 Water resources minister M B Patil said withdrawal of the petition was a shot in the arm for the project that envisages providing drinking water to over 68 lakh people in Bengaluru Rural, Kolar, Chikkaballapur and Tumakuru by diverting water from Yettinahole – a west-flowing stream.
 
 The principal bench of NGT had asked the petitioner K N Somashekar why he was opposing the drinking water project which seeks to fill up lakes in the parched districts. Following this, the petition was withdrawn. Patil said: “The petitioner seems to have withdrawn the petition fearing dismissal of the plea by the tribunal”.
 
 Reiterating that Yettinahole is purely a drinking water project envisaged to find a lasting solution to the perennial drinking water problem faced by the 68 lakh population of Kolar, Chikkaballapur and other districts, Patil said the government had already spent over Rs 1,800 crore for the Rs 19,582 crore project.
 
 The tribunal, while allowing the petitioner to withdrawn the petition, adjourned the proceedings to hear three other petitions submitted before it. The tribunal posted the cases for hearing to March 21.
 
 “The statement issued by Patil saying I have withdrawn the application out of fear of dismissal of the case is a reckless one. The application was withdrawn on the advise of the tribunal’s chairperson. There is no need have multiple cases on one issue and I am confident of succeeding. There are four miscellaneous applications pending before the NGT’s principal bench other than the appeal pertaining to the Yattinahole project. I oppose the project as it is corrupt, malicious and one that degrades the environment. The government is cheating the people of Kolar and Chikakballapur in the name of providing safe drinking water. The beneficiaries of the project are corrupt politicians, bureaucrats and contractors,” said Somashekar, an environmentalist who first approached NGT on the Yettinahole issue.
 
