 is all about dandiya, garba, eating out, nightlong revelry and oodles for fun. But this festive occasion is put to another productive use by the students of Dr Ambedkar Institute of Management Studies and Research. These youngsters will walk all the way to jagrut  , which is precisely 17km away from the city. And the best part is that more than a religious statement, this act is all about putting various management principles to practice. Here’s an update on this interesting exercise…

 “On Sunday, September 24, around 60-70 management students will voluntarily walk all the way to historic Koradi Temple, led by senior faculty member  ,” shares a faculty member of the college,  . He adds, “This year, Navratri festival has come earlier than usual, so students are taking this opportunity to take a break before the examinations. But more than religious sentiment, this is an annual event where they learn to come together and surge ahead in cohesion.”
  
  
 
 Ask him how will the students apply management principles during this apparently simple act of walking together, and Gidwani explains, “Walking for 17km is not an easy task; after the initial three or four kms, you start feeling extremely tired. That is where youngsters will motivate one another and also use other principles like team work, coordination and hurdle management etc. When they are walking together, they will be there for one another, whenever someone is tired, thirsty or in pain. Everyone will be dressed in comfortable white kurtas and sports shoes.”
 
  
 
 In case someone is not able to continue, there is help at hand, shares Gidwani. “There are quite a few volunteers, who join the group on two-wheelers. If a student is unable to walk ahead, he/she can go pillion riding rest of the way. We also have first-aid facility, in case the youngsters need it,” says he.
 
  
  
 
 
 Students are quite gung ho about this forthcoming event. Final-year management student, Ashwini Vaidya, shares, “I had walked all the way to Koradi last year too. And I know from experience that when we come back, the special bond that is created during the trip to the temple, remains strong even when we return. Moreover, we also want to give the message of saving the environment to everyone through this group walk.”
 
 
  
  
  
 
 Youngsters who haven’t participated in this endeavour earlier, are even more excited. First-year student of the college, Rohit Kadao, shares, “I’m really looking forward to this trip to Koradi. Through this endeavour I want to test my potential to withstand tiredness, stress and pain. The fact that I will be walking as a part of one big team, including seniors and juniors, has given wings to my imagination.”
 
