Don’t look now, but there’s a storm in your   mug! So much has been happening in the world of the java. You have coffee cocktails, folks freeze the beans to extract maximum flavour for desserts, famous chef   has even tried cooking lobster in a coffee percolator — resulting in a lobstercino! ‘Bulletproof’ coffee came about two years ago and combined coffee and butter to give people a new morning fix and the latest is Japan’s new invention of 'coffee butter'. The soft spread combines coffee and butter and can be put on toast, croissants, bagels; it lets you have the feel of an all-in-one breakfast. This is just the latest food fad, here’s more on how your morning coffee is no longer just a refreshing jolt…

 
 
 
 Got a cold? Here’s a remedy with a twist. Dry grind dry ginger, cardamom powder, a few coriander seeds, black peppercorns, coffee powder and a little sugar. Heat water, add the mix to it and some milk. Strain and serve.
 
 
  
  
 
 That’s right. Coffee makes for a great thickening agent for soups and broths. It is particularly apt for French Onion soup that uses butter and meat stock. You simply add brewed coffee with bay leaves and herbs to the broth and allow it to cook. 
 
  
  
 We know that coffee and chocolate is a classic combo. But we’re not just talking about mochas here, there’s more to the mix. Mix white chocolate in your coffee and freeze the drink for a lighter morning brew. Or, how about some sea salt and mint chocolate in your mug for a refreshing change? You can also blend caramel, coconut and honey and pour that over your coffee cake. We vote for chocolate, coffee and peanut butter over your cupcake. And for that hard-core need for  , dip   beans in melted chocolate and bite into them. 
 
 
 Coffee has a nice, intense flavour and can also be used as a spice rub on meat. Use ground dark beans for a heavy meat and a lighter roast for chicken. One can also can also add garlic, vinegar, pepper and cinnamon to the mix for an enhanced taste.
 
 
 This works well as a spice on meat and with seafood as it is strong in flavour.
 
 Brewed coffee is also a great marinade and can be also used in desserts. For example, in deglazing. For a tasty sauce, use it with cream, small onions and garlic and drizzle this over baked fish or pasta. 
 
 
 The rule is, lighter roasts are more delicate but also more acidic, while darker ones are toasty and strong.
 
 
  
  
 Impart a sweet-smoky flavour to your healthy salad with some coffee. Combine green leaves, onion, radish, tomato, quinoa and cheese in a bowl. Add a teaspoon of finely ground coffee to it. Or, prepare a summery salad and drizzle a lemon-coffee dressing over it. Serve. 
 
 
  
  
 
 It’s set to turn warmer soon so how about beating the weather with chilled coffee popsicles? Use either black coffee or milky, cold brewed coffee. Add a sweetener if you like. Fill a few popsicle moulds with this and freeze. Another chilled-out idea for your next party is to make coffee ice cubes, which will add more flavour to the mug. To make this, brew coffee. Cool it and pour it into an ice cube tray. Add it to your coffee granita or glass of cold milk for stronger taste.
 
 
 This may make you balk, but oneof the world’s priciest coffees is made from beans eaten by Thai elephants and taken later from their dung. It’s said that the acid in the stomach of these animals breaks down the protein found in the coffee, which brings about its distinct bitterness.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 You can use leftover coffee grounds as compost. These can also be used to keep your fridge smelling fresh. 
 
 
 
 
 
