MUMBAI: Despite the fact that their eye sockets have been gouged out, two leaders from prominent national parties are smiling, though understandably not at each other. In the same VIP row, is a political heavyweight whose signature spectacles are on even though his pupils are missing. If only these esteemed paper masks could see, they would survey the fresh heaps of lotus-bearing mobile pouches, bow-and-arrow-sporting ladies' wallets and palm-imprinted corporate badges below with a neighbour's envy and an owner's pride. In the run-up to the BMC polls, Tendolkar Arts-a 30-year-old Lalbaug outlet that sells election paraphernalia-is not only seducing safari-clad middlemen with their custom bike keychains but also hanging up mufflers with curious symbols such as a roadroller. 

 These and other classic symptoms of a fast-approaching election fever have arrived across Lalbaug market- the nucleus of wholesale political merchandise in Mumbai -where VIP clients casually drop in with gun-toting bodyguards and where pickled shopkeepers slyly confide that "women candidates tend to be stingier than men". 
 
 In addition to clients contesting in the BMC polls (February 21), this week the street is also catering to partymen from Latur and Ahmednagar gearing up for the imminent state civic polls and those from Goa, where legislative assembly elections are due on February 4. In anticipation, the shops bombard you with the palm, the lotus and the clock--symbols which peek from both Indian and Chinese custom keychains, identity card holders, imitation bracelets and light-up button badges (to be worn over shirt buttons). You might even uncover political hairclips and a mangalsutra whose pendant bears two well-known bespectacled, unsmiling faces. 
 
 Innovation is key for the 20-odd dresswalas coveting eyeballs here. After all, many of them fare better during election season than during Ganesh Chaturthi. By virtue of their business during elections, a shopkeeper here proclaims three major shops as "the kings of Lalbaug"- 'Parekh', owned by the unassuming Yogesh Parekh (67) who is as old as his shop, 'Shri Ram' run by the busy Hemant Patel and 12-year-old 'Hari Om Dresswala', which has an ever-smiling Rajesh Purohit behind the counter. "We make at least Rs 30 lakh during the BMC polls," says Purohit, who rakes in Rs 20 lakh during Ganesh Chaturthi. Other bigger elections draw a whopping Rs 60 lakh. 
 
 As most of these transactions happen in cash, demonetisation may eat into 30 to 50 per cent of their election business this year, predict wholesalers. What may temper that loss is the recent break-up of the Shiv Sena-BJP alliance. "Since we have two parties now, sales are bound to improve slightly," says Tendolkar. 
 
 A majority of clients tend to be from outside Mumbai. "They spend more than people in Mumbai do during elections," says Purohit, who has orders from Latur, Junnar, Ahmednagar, Nashik and Goa. While the urban crowd favour sophisticated innovations such as corporate badges and bike keychains, "rural clients prefer ladies' wallets and hairclips," says  , whose shop transports bulk orders to zilla parishad candidates in Pimpri-Chinchwad, Nanded and other parts of Maharashtra. Years of experience has also familiarised Tendolkar with the tastes of independent candidates. That is why his mufflers sport symbols like pressure cookers and whistles. 
 
 Babudom bleeds into the fabrics here. For instance, the shiny silk Rs 100 mufflers in Purohit's shop are for VIP candidates, while the sheer cotton ones are for the others. 
 
 A lot has changed in the business over time. Tendolkar -whose shop began as a textile store in 1910 before specialising in political merchandise in 1985-misses the fun times when "celebrities" like BJP's   from Mulund used to drop into his shop. "Today it's mostly middlemen who place bulk orders as they get a commission," says Tendolkar. 
 
 Seated on a tattered swivel chair outside his shop with a cutout of Bal Thackeray, Parekh speaks to customers in flawless Marathi. On occasion, business sense dictates that he introduce his native place as Sindhudurg's Kankavli instead of Gujarat's Bhavnagar. "It helps when people feel I am one of them," says the 67-year-old, whose phone is full of pictures of flag designs of Shiv Sena, BJP and Congress. But he also keeps his distance. "You shouldn't get too close to anyone," warns the Borivli-based Parekh, who watches news channels only when he gets home and is skeptical about corruption leaving the system. 
 
 Besides healthy cynicism and professional distance, the election business has also taught these wholesalers to make peace with unpredictability. Parekh recalls a fledgling party in Mankhurd ordering banners worth Rs 60,000 and then never picking them up.
 
 Though the fear of wastage has made them obsessive about checking and rechecking prototypes on WhatsApp, last-minute changes can be tough to factor in. Recently, Maharashtra Navnirman Sena's decision to reverse the direction of its symbolic railway engine has meant that piles of printed mufflers have now become useless. "We can't make a Churchgate-bound train head to Virar, can we?" says a shopkeeper.
 
