KOCHI: “Oh, nammade Danny?“ a group fishermen unwinding by the   beach were quick to respond as  's name was mentioned. Proof that Connell, who participated in the previous two editions of  , has already endeared himself in their hearts as a people's artist.

 The artist won their hearts not just with his adeptness in street portraiture, but a disarming nature and friendly demeanor. They were surprised when he came back last month for a visit, despite not being part of the Biennale. “He came with a Christs cake, though it was well mas cake, though it was well past the season, and gifts for all of us,“ said Varghese, a fisherman as he picked the catch from the Chinese net.
 
 The line of Chinese nets on the beach were a usual hangout spot for the Australian artist, where he sat and sketched all the 12 fishermen working there. Connell is known the world over for his portraits of workers. While in Kochi he portrayed the migrant labourers mostly.
 
 “Portraits take people we usually see in our periphery and make us face them. Our society is dependent on this attention-giving to make it healthy. In Australia, the focus has been on transport workers. And in India, labourers. My work is about my need to get to know people, and then celebrate it. These people are in no way looking for recognition,“ Connell said.
 
 Vikas, a freelance photographer, who acted as his city guide, said Connell, as an artist, was interested only in labourers.
 
 “Many of his close friends, including me, had asked him to sketch our portraits as well. He kept nodding his head, but never did. He dedicated all his time acknowledging the labourers who toiled day and night, and none else,“ Vikas said.
 
 Connell had cancelled his trip back home after a portraiture of Achu, a tea vendor, was vandalized during the first edition of Kochi Muziris Biennale. He stayed back for more than a month sketching him again and drawing more portraits.
 
 “Danny used to go to the spots where the migrant labourers assembled, at around noontime. By the time most of them would have landed casual jobs for the day. He would then choose labourers who were not `picked' and pay them to be his models. This is a form of acknowledgement for them in a society where people look right through them,“ said  , owner of the hotel that displays some of Connell's sketches.
 
 Connell, while in the city, had also visited the cancer ward at general hospital and gifted patients with portraits he sketched on the spot.
 
