PUNE: If making a transition from Test cricket to T20 format wasn't enough of a challenge for India batsman  , avoiding mangoes seems to be a “bigger task“ for the Mumbai boy who doesn't want to compromise on his fitness.

 It is always his team that comes first for Rahane. Even during celebrations. While talking about cele brations, he had a quirky smile and an honest reply to offer when he was, in jest, asked -`Did the beer happen?' “It's past now. I am happy we won the Test series and as a unit we played really well. As a team, we had our own celebrations. It was important for me and my team to stay together after a long and successful season. When you win as a team, you should celebrate as a team.So we celebrated in our dress ing room. We had to celebrate as a team,“ said Rahane. The `beer' question was in reference to India's final Test against  . The visiting captain  , his teammate at Rising Pune Supergiant, had offered Rahane a `round of beer' after their series loss.
 
 Rahane became India's 33rd Test captain and led Team India in the Test series decider against Australia in Dharamshala. The captaincy responsibility was new to him. But the reliable batsman's self-belief and a call from master blaster Sachin Tendulkar helped him.
 
 “It was a proud moment for me, but the mood was somber in the dressing room because of Virat's injury . He inspired all of us with his confidence and support despite the injury .As a captain, I knew I am a different person and everybody has his own style as captain.On the ground, I knew I had seniors with me, but at the end, I had to take calls. Throughout the match, I wanted to follow my style. Before the match, I got a call from Sachin. He also asked me to follow my instinct.It inspired me,“ Rahane said.
 
 Rahane's aggression carried a different flavour too.“There are different ways to show your aggression. For me, it has always shown through my actions. As a child, I practised karate. Showing aggression through my behavior could have never worked for me as I was the smallest in my zone. The only way for me to show it was through my actions. I have carried that to cricket too,“ said the junior karate black belt.
 
 Rahane will start the Indian Premier League season for Rising Pune Supergiant against Mumbai Indians on Thursday . The team will be led by Steve Smith, since the team management decided to replace   with the Australian.
 
 “Smith is the captain, so it is important to give him his space. We are lucky to have Dhoni bhai in our side and he is an inspiration for not just the Indians, but also for overseas players. I am sure even Smith will take his advice from him.“
 
 Rahane added that captain or no captain, Dhoni's presence in the team is enough to inspire the team throughout the season. “Dhoni may not be the captain, but him as a player is an inspiration. A person like him teaches a lot even with his presence. He doesn't speak much, but whenever he does, he leaves you inspired,“ he said.
 
 
