LUCKNOW: Son of Siddha Gopal Sahu, Samajwadi Party’s Mahoba candidate, was shot at allegedly by supporters of the BSP candidate in Bajaraia area of the constituency on Thursday. 

 Cross FIRs have been lodged by the two groups naming rival candidates in the FIRs. ADG (Law and Order) Daljeet Chaudhary said the two groups opened fire following a confrontation. Two persons were arrested, while inspector Jagdev Prasad Yadav and sub-inspector Anand Kumar have been suspended, he added. 
 
 According to police, the incident occurred at 3.15am, a few hours before the start of polling. the SP candidate’s son Saket Sahu and his supporters were on the way to oversee polling preparations when their SUV collided with a four-wheeler in which BSP candidate Arimardan Singh’s supporter were coming from the opposite direction.
 
 A verbal spat ensued that turned into a clash and the two sides allegedly opened fire at each other in which Saket suffered bullet injuries on his groin and his associate Lalla Bhaiya on the arm. Heavy police was deployed in the area after the incident as supporters from both sides started assembling at the spot. Saket and Lalla were rushed to Kanpur for treatment. Two empty shells of cartridges were recovered from the clash venue.
 
 Mahoba (city) SHO M P Verma, said cross FIRs have been lodged in the incident. In the first complaint, Siddha Gopal Sahu lodged an FIR against Himanchal Singh, Abhimanyu Singh, Pervez Baudh, Hasib, Kallu, Sameer Ansari, Sudhir Singh and six unidentified persons. The second was lodged by Devesh Singh, uncle of BSP candidate, against Saket Sahu, Saurabh, Tariq, Harsh Singh and four unidentified persons. Both sides have accused each other of rioting with armed weapons, unlawful assembly and attempt to murder. 
 
 Mahoba SP Gaurav Singh said Saket is under treatment at GSVM hospital, Kanpur, wile Lalla has been admitted to a private hospital at Kanpur. Both are out of danger. “We have arrested one person named in the FIRs from each side. Search for others is underway,” he said.
 
