BENGALURU: As heads rolled over alleged special treatment to some  , around 200 inmates went on a protest on Monday afternoon, demanding that   be transferred immediately.

 The protest began around 1.30pm as inmates gathered near the kitchen and admission room. They were learned to have raised slogans demanding justice and transfer of Kumar besides initiation of a probe against him. Officials took the help of monitors -convicts who are given responsibility of keeping things under check -to pacify the protesters and pre-empt any scuffle. The agitation died down around 2.10pm, minutes after which news of Kumar's transfer broke out.
 
 Superintendent Anitha R was appointed in-charge chief superintendent in his place. DG (Prisons) H N Sathyanarayana Rao, at the centre of the allegations, was asked to proceed on leave while DIG (Prisons) D Roopa, who made the allegations, was also transferred.
 
 Sources said the prison had turned into a garrison following allegations of privileges being extended to AIADMK general secretary V K Sasikala and stamp paper scam kingpin Abdul Karim Telgi and of ganja being supplied to other inmates. The allegations divided the inmates into two camps: one in support of Roopa and another in support of DG Rao and Krishna Kumar. Amid claims of a clean-up, prisoners reportedly complained about being cut off from the outside world as certain television channels were disconnected and they were barred from reading newspapers or visiting the library. Some prisoners, however, kept themselves abreast of news through mobile phones, TOI learned.
 
 “It is like a small town where curfew has been imposed,“ said a source. “No inmate was allowed to come out of the barracks till 1pm.Around 200 inmates were allowed to enter the kitchen after 1pm as they had to serve food to the rest. After serving food, these inmates shouted slogans before returning to their barracks,“ another source said.
 
 Sasikala and Telgi, sources said, continued to remain in their cells during the protest and there were no signs that they continued to enjoy any privileges. Sasikala is sharing a cell with J Ilavarasi, her fellow convict in the disproportionate assets case.
 
 
 
 DIG (Prisons) D Roopa, who had locked herself in her office chambers on Seshadri Road, refused to speak to media following her transfer.“No comments,“ was all she told reporters who swamped her vehicle as she was leaving office for the day. She was yet to report to her new posting as commisisoner for traffic and road safety.
 
