KOLKATA: Two weeks after TOI highlighted how commuters on certain share rides on   faced bitter experiences, a young corporate communications executive had to go through a similar ordeal when she booked an   from Lalbazar to her residence in Thakurpukur on Tuesday evening. The   not only abused Koyel Shee Mukherjee for being asked to pick her up form her given location, but hit the “complete trip” option on the app in the port area, some 9km away form the location she entered — Nabapally on James Long Sarani. 

 The woman then wrote emails to Ola, which went unanswered, and tagged the firm on Facebook describing the incident. She said, “I want   to take action against the driver but I will go to cops if no action comes through.”
 
 Ola finally replied to her on Facebook on Wednesday evening, saying, “...we would ensure that this person is put through retraining on how to use the device...” However, at night the Ola authorities assured the victim of suspending the driver after proper investigation.
 
 Mukherjee alleged that the driver’s name was displayed as Samir Ghosh during her ride but when she checked the receipt, it showed his name as Robin Das.
 
 Mukherjee avails Ola on a daily basis to travel to her office and back home, she said. “As always, I waited on Tuesday also for my pick up to arrive opposite of Lalbazar — the location is easy for any driver to identify. Yet, the driver failed to find my location. Later he insisted it is a one-way road (which is incorrect) and pick up from there was not possible. He asked me to walk back towards Brabourne Road flyover traffic point according to his convenience which I refused. I gave him the option to pick me up from Tea Board but he refused, though he would have to cross the point to go to my destination from Howrah side. When I tried reasoning with him over phone, I was screamed at and abused with slangs. I should have cancelled the trip then, but as it was getting late, I boarded the cab. The driver continued to be impolite but my two co-riders never protested. When I said I would report the incident to Ola, he looked unfazed. It took me 20 minutes to get through Ola’s call centre representative. Then my issue was immediately routed as a ‘security concern call’. By then we were at Momimpore and my co-riders had gotten off. The Ola security manager, Suraj, asked me to immediately get off the cab as my trip was ‘completed’. But we were still driving around Remount Road. I had never felt so scared and insecure. By switching off the GPS he could have taken me anywhere, did anything and even got away with his crime. After much screaming he stopped the car and I got off near Majherhat with several passengers of buses stuck in traffic came to my rescue,” recollected Mukherjee.
 
 When apprised by TOI, a senior Ola official said he would ask one of his colleagues to call back with a response. However, no one called back till late on Wednesday. 
 
 
