Mhow: With more than 150 quacks in all three sectors of Pithampur as well as spread across pockets of the area, the lives of thousands of residents of Pithampur industrial area are at stake. These quacks have a large clientele since they charge low fees in most cases. They charge less than Rs 50 for everything including consultation fees and medicines. A number of low-income factory workers visit them for this very reason. They feel these ‘doctors’ are better solely because they are cheaper. These fraudsters try to impress poor people by drawing up a long list of qualifications that they have received. The name plate of Dr Binoy Havladar, whose clinic is on Sanjay Jalashay road in Chatrachaya colony, was found to be most impressive. His degrees included ‘MBBS (IAM), CCH (MP), DYN (UK), DNHE (DEL), DAFF (Delhi)’ and ‘consultant physician’ was written below these degrees. There were about a dozen doctors who had not written their names with any degrees they possess but the information about their area of specialisations in many diseases was written on their name plates. One such doctor was Dr DK Mondol. Another interesting name plate was of Dr DK Biswas who has mentioned that he specializes in sseveral diseases including those of skin and also venereal conditions. A dubious-sounding “Bangali clinic” was written in bold letters with his name. Chandan Singh (31), a resident of Chatrachaya colony who works in a cotton yarn company, told TOI that he lives in a rented house with his wife and two children. The nearby Bengali doctor is his best option as he charges between 30 and 50 rupees and even provides medicines within the same price range. He said that if he goes to a more qualified doctor, his expenses will be between Rs 150 and Rs 500, something he cannot afford. Ramkaran Patel (46), a native of Raisen district as well as a factory worker, said that once he had pain in his chest and the neighbours took him to such a doctor nearby. The doctor had administered him with an injection following which Patel’s entire body turned blue. He was rushed to a hospital in Indore where doctors saved his life. By the time his neighbours reached his clinic to teach him a lesson, he had already fled from the clinic. There are many such stories of fake doctors but they operate fearlessly in the industrial area because they take advantage of the poverty and ignorance of people here. Dhar SDM Jitendra Singh said that the district administration carries out special drives to nab such fake doctors and takes action against them. As soon as the raids start, they close their clinics and flee from their area of operation following which a drive is launched.