KOZHIKODE: A three-storey building on the famed SM Street here was gutted on Wednesday .

 The building housing the showroom of Modern Handloom and Textiles situated near   was completely destroyed in the fire which started at 11.30 am.
 
 As many as 120 personnel of the fire and rescue service department battled the blaze for around four hours before it could be doused completely by 3.30 pm.
 
 Though there were no casualties, the fire caused damages running to over Rs One crore, as per prelimini ary estimates. District Collecor U V Jose said that reason for the fire could have been from an electic short circuit, however adding that the exact reason can be ascertained only after a detailed probe.
 
 A total of 22 fire service units from the fire stations in Kozhikode, Kannur and Malappuram district and two units from the Karipur airport fire and emergency services were deployed to douse the fire .
 
 The presence of five LPG cylinders in the the building engulfed by fire created panic situation for long time. The timely effort of the fire and rescue service officials averted a major mishap as they managed to remove the cylinders, risking their own lives.
 
 According to fire and rescue department officials, the fire was first noticed on the corner marked for shirt section in the ground floor of the textiles shop.
 
 As fire spread, the over 20 staff , including women managed to run out of the building. The fire soon engulfed the entire building.
 
 Though fire tenders from Beach, Vellimadukunnu and and Meenchanda fire stations reached the spot and tried to douse the fire, the blaze remained uncontrollable posing threat to nearby buildings.
 
 Authorities closed down shops in the entire street and fire units from neighbouring district were summoned to the spot. K M Jomy , Kozhikode beach fire station officer, said they could bring the fire under control around 2 pm and the fire was doused completely by 3.30 pm.
 
 District collector U V Jose, DGP (North Zone) Rajesh Dewan, mayor  , M K Raghavan MP ,V K C Mammed Koya, MLA, and district police chief J Jayanth were present on the spot to coordinate the rescue operations.
 
 Collector U V Jose said that the district administration has convened a meeting of traders on February 25 to chalk out preventive measures to avoid recurrence of fire mishaps on S M Street.
 
 Arun Bhaskar, assistant divisional officer of fire and rescue services department, said that the actual loss can be assessed only after shop owners present their stock reports and other documents on February 23.
 
 “A detailed report on the mishap will be submitted to A Hemachandran, DGP , Kerala fire and rescue services, on February 23,'' he said.Mayor Thottathil Raveendran said that inspections will be conducted at all the shops in the SM street as majority of the buildings have old and outdated wiring. “There will not be any compromise while enforcing fire safety anymore,'' he said. A team comprising health, engineering and revenue wings of the Kozhikode corporation will visit the mishap site to check for violations of Kerala Municipality Building Rules.
 
