NEW DELHI:   is zeroing in on two-three villages in west Delhi bordering   to nab the shooters involved in Sunday night’s killings. A raid was conducted in Bajitpur village near Bawana on Tuesday. Informers have been asked to report about missing youths.

 Cops suspect that the “supari” (contract) to eliminate Monu Dariyapur had been outsourced to a different gang by the prime suspect Sonu Dariyapur. It was standard practice in the Mumbai underworld, which had outsourced contracts to gangs and individuals in UP, Bihar and Haryana to stay clear of police’s dragnet.
 
 Since Sunday night, almost all units of police, including the Special Cell and the Crime Branch have been pursuing this case. 
 
 Though cops believe that   had executed the plan, they consider Sonu as the prime suspect or the mastermind as only he had a “motive to kill someone so brutally”. The Special Cell said it was looking at other angles as well. Of late, there were allegations of land-grabbings against Monu, which are being looked into. 
 
 Narrating the sequence of events, a police officer said that Yogesh and Arun had come to meet Monu around 11am on Sunday. A little later, the trio, along with two PSOs, had gone to a five-star hotel in Dwarka and had lunch there. They returned home around 4.30pm. 
 
 The two friends then returned to their homes but came back to meet Monu again at 7.30pm. They went to Bhairon Enclave in Arun’s car to meet their acquaintance Amit Goyal and then headed for home. Cops suspect they were being tailed from here. 
 
 Monu was driving the car while Arun sat beside him. Yogesh, Kuldeep and ASI Vijay sat on the rear seat. They pulled over to have snacks at National Market. Within two-three minutes, the shooters arrived at the spot and killed Monu, Arun and Vijay. Sources said that constable Kuldeep and Yogesh have not been given a clean chit yet. They will be cross-examined as well. Yogesh had stepped out of the car just before the shootout began. 
 
 Meanwhile, Monu’s wife Rajrani fears for the safety of her children. Hoping to get adequate security, she contacted senior police officers on Tuesday afternoon.
 
 “A woman PSO has been deployed at my home since we are getting death threats. Still, I am afraid that I too might be attacked by Sonu and his friends like they did to my husband,” she said, adding two cops were guarding both the entrances to the house. 
 
 Rani said that the cops stayed tight-lipped about the progress made in the case. Police officers said they would ensure her security.
 
 
