MUMBAI: Now you will have a say in the next fare hike for autos and taxis as well as in changing the way these two modes of transport operate in the city.

 The state transport department on Wednesday launched its first-ever online survey of commuters in Mumbai asking them to suggest among other things the minimum fares and distances for autos and taxis, whether meters should be electronic or GPS-enabled, if black-and-yellow cabs should charge extra (in range of 5% to 25%) to offer AC rides on demand and whether there should be discounts for non-peak hour travel.
 
 “This is a unique survey in which the transport department is reaching out to commuters to seek suggestions to improve the quality of service of autos and taxis in Mumbai. Every suggestion/opinion will taken seriously,” said a senior transport official. The online survey form can be accessed on the transport department’s website.
 
 The citizen feedback will be directly routed to the four-member Khatua committee which has been formed by the state government to devise the new fare hike formula and suggest improvements in services of autos and taxis. 
 
 What is interesting in the survey form is that citizens can choose the kind of service he or she expects from city autos and taxis. “They can also propose rejection of fare hikes for drivers and suggest that fare revision be done only once in three years,” said an official. “We are asking every citizen to rate drivers based on factors such as behaviour towards passengers, refusals, use of electronic meter, dressing and also reliability and safety. This feedback is crucial in the survey,” he stated.
 
 The online form will also seek your feedback on how the entry of app-based   (like   and  ) has affected your commute—whether there is greater convenience of booking, if fares are lower than black-and-yellow taxis, absence of refusals, a more comfortable ride or on-demand availability that apppeals. The Khatua committee may use this feedback to push for major improvement in the existing   service, sources said.
 
 As for app-based services, the survey asks whether you prefer a government-run mobile platform or a union-run mobile platform, or any other such as those run by aggregator firms. 
 
 
