It’s interesting how Ganesha and Goddess Gauri are worshipped differently across  , evident through the food that makes up the 
divine naivedya, or offering to the deities. For the uninitiated, here’s some of what’s offered during Ganesh Chaturthi and (the recently concluded) Gauri poojan, each dish characteristic of the region and traditions it comes from... 
 
 
 Growing up in Hyderabad in a Maharashtrian family hailing from Marathwada, Shruti Nargundkar wondered why calendar art often showed Ganesha eating a laddu, rather than a modak. To her young mind, he was ‘Marathi-speaking’, and was only supposed to eat the quintessential ukadiche modak, and not laddus. “But my mother explained to us that the Sanskrit word moda means ‘pleasure, or joy’; and modak means ‘an object which brings pleasure or joy’,” says Shruti. “The laddu is a primordial ball shape that gives people joy and pleasure, so it is essentially a modak.” 
 The same explanation holds good for the good old kadabu, popularly prepared in Marathwada (and Karnataka). “It had to be one of the ‘panchapakwanna’ (five sweets offered as naivedya) during Gauri poojan, along with 16 varieties of vegetables, 16 salads or koshimbirs, and 16 chutneys, pooris, rice and bhajis,” explains Shruti. 
 This crescent-shaped, whole wheat flour pastry has a rich but earthy filling of chana dal and jaggery. “Its heady flavours of nutmeg and cardamom truly make it divine. It’s my favourite ‘modak’,” quips Shruti, now living in Melbourne, Australia.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 While puran poli makes for a special offering in the Marathwada and   regions,   is the special equivalent in the Konkan belt, says Shilpa Bhide, a teacher at  . “The dish uses ingredients typically found in the region — coconut, rice and jaggery; making it ideal naivedya dish during Gauri poojan,” she says.
 The ghavan, essentially a pancake made from rice flour and cow’s milk, is served with the accompanying ghatla, a comforting concoction of the first coconut milk extract, a bit of rice flour for consistency, poppy seeds, jaggery and condiments like cardamom and nutmeg. “The ghatla usually gets an almond-like tinge from the jaggery and poppy seeds, but an optional addition of saffron lends it its rich yellow colour,” Shilpa adds. On day two of the Gauri poojan, the ghavan ghatla is the star among offerings like batatyachi bhaji, masale bhaat, coconut chutney and aluchi bhaji (made with colocasia leaves).
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Non-vegetarian food as naivedya? Well, that’s hardly an anomaly in Pathare Prabhu (PP) households. Mumbaikar Soumitra Velkar, who grew up in one such Maharashtrian PP family, says, “Prawns, in particular, forms an integral part of our diet. For every vegetable or curry prepared, adding prawns is almost customary.” There are several variants of the alu wadi (namely Parsi patrel, and Konkani patrode), but the Pathare Prabhu variant comprises either minced meat, Bombay duck or...prawns.
 Prawn patwad is key naivedya for Gauri. “The poojan signifies the goddess visiting her maaher (parents’ home). She’s like the daughter who’s come home, so you can’t let her go without a treat, which explains the non-vegetarian offering,” says Soumitra.
 Colocasia leaves, available in abundance this season, makes for an ideal offering. And what better way to offer them than with prawns? “The basic recipe is more or less the same, except that, these vadis give up the ‘sweet component’ (jaggery). It is steamed and then fried to a crisp-succulent consistency,” Soumitra adds. 
 Ganesha being a ‘vegetarian god’, Soumitra recalls families in older households keeping Ganesha and Gauri in separate rooms, just so that their naivedya were kept apart too.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 For Anjali Joshi, a Sahakar Nagar resident, memories of Gauri poojan at her grandfather’s Yavatmal home are still fresh. “The women would prepare naivedya wearing special silk sarees called ‘sovala’. Everything had to be ready before Gauri’s arrival,” Anjali recalls.
 While laddu and jowariche ambil (a sour pudding) were ‘maha prasad’ for Gauri, what really tempted Anjali as a child were the 16 crisp karanjis (filled with dry coconut) and paatis (deep-fried wheat flour and semolina pooris), neatly strung on the ‘fulora’, a circular hanger above the goddesses. “We weren’t allowed to touch them till the three-day poojan got over,” she quips.
 Explaining the possible purpose of the fulora, Anjali says, “It was strung high was so that nobody touched it. After offering prasad, my grandfather would close the temple door, so that Gauri could rest and have her meal. For other times the goddess felt hungry, there were the fulora offerings. That was the belief.” The crispness and neatness of the two dishes often determined the cooking skills of the woman of the house.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 The final aarti before visarjan sees Maharashtrian households offering Ganesha ambe dal (a raw mango dal comprising soaked raw chana dal and coconut coarsely ground together and given a tadka), or vaatli dal (the cooked variant sans the mango, with an upma-like consistency). Shilpa says, “People wouldn’t consume garlic or onions during the festival. Dal, coconut and raw mangoes being readily available; is probably why the dish is commonly prepared.” Often, green mangoes are stored so that ambe dal can be made for the visarjan. Most Mumbaikars will offer vaatli dal, but you’ll commonly find ambe dal in Pune and Konkan homes.
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
