New Delhi: The corporate battle between multinational   and its Indian competitor Meru has reached the   which put on hold on Friday the   (Compat) order directing a probe against Uber for allegedly resorting to unfair trade practices including predatory pricing. 

  The tribunal had on December 7 directed the fair trade watchdog Competition Commission of India (CCI) to conduct a fresh probe against Uber for allegedly indulging in unfair practices. 
 
 The tribunal had passed the order on a plea of Meru Travels Solution accusing the multi-national company of resorting to abusive practices with an intent to establish its monopoly and eliminate other competitors by granting huge discounts and incentives to its customers.
 
 Challenging the tribunal's verdict, Uber told the apex court that the order was illegal as the tribunal itself had come to the conclusion there was prima facie nothing against it.
 
 Appearing before a bench of Justices Dipak Misra and D Y Chandrachud, Uber's counsel Harish Salve said the tribunal committed an error by reversing the order of CCI and directing a probe against it.
 
 "There is no prima facie findings against the company and if the tribunal was not in agreement with the findings of CCI then the matter should have been referred back to the Commission for re-examination. The order for probe was not legal," he said and pleaded to the court to stay the probe till the matter is adjudicated by the apex court.
 
 Salve said the probe would have global ramifications and the company would suffer because of the tribunal's order which is bad in law.
 
 Senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, appearing for Meru, opposed his plea and argued against staying the probe. He contended that the tribunal passed a reasoned order and the court should not interfere by staying its operation.
 
 The bench agreed to examine the validity of the tribunal's order and asked Meru to file its response on the appeal filed by Uber. It also directed that the status quo would be maintained, virtually staying the probe ordered by the tribunal.
 
 Meru had filed a complaint against Uber alleging that the multi-national company was resorting to unfair practices and said it was spending about USD 885 million to generate a revenue of USD 415 million. The CCI had in February rejected the complaint, saying inability of the existing players to match innovative technology of other players or the model created for operating in a particular industry cannot be said to be creating entry barriers in itself.
 
 The Indian company then approached the tribunal which ordered fresh probe against Uber. "The size of discounts and incentives shows there are either phenomenal efficiency improvements which are replacing existing business models or there could be an anti-competitive stance to it," Compat had said.
 
 "In our view, there is a good enough reason for the director general to investigate this matter. It will also help in settling an issue which has agitated business discourse for quite some time," the tribunal had added.
 
 It had also asked CCI to pass appropriate order, on receipt of the investigation report, after giving opportunity to all parties to file their replies or objections and affording them opportunity of personal hearing.
 
 Taking note of Uber's substantial market share, Compat said, besides the appellant (Meru), there are a few very small players in the market, who can be seriously affected if any of the bigger players adopts anti-competitive practices.
 
 
