BHUBANESWAR: Sports fever has gripped the city as it hosts one of the big-ticket athletics championships of the world. 

 Walls across the city painted with sports-related graffiti, public vehicles like autorickshaws and buses donning pictures of Olly- the mascot of the game - and flags of participating countries fluttering along the city roads have created an atmosphere of sports all around. 
 
 While the grand opening ceremony of the championships has been the talk of the town on Thursday an unexpected interest for athletes is witnessed among the general public. 
 
 Long queue of sports lovers were seen in front of the Kalinga Stadium for tickets to watch the athletes in action. It is rare that an athletics event grabs attention, but the city has come out in droves to make the event a success. 
 
 "It's indeed a lifetime opportunity to watch world champions and Olympians from across Asia here in our city and watch their live performances on tracks. I have planned to take my kids to the stadium every day so that they could feel the thrill of the competition," said Arun Kumar Mohanty, a government employee. 
 
 Interestingly, most households have tuned in to out-of-favour Doordarshan channel to watch the live telecast of events. "The championship being held in India our players should win more medals. In the last edition, India ended as third. This time we hope for a better result," said Jitendra Sahu, a sports lover. 
 
 People are also cooperating with police for the traffic restrictions imposed on several roads to make smooth movement of players from hotels to the stadium. 
 
 "We don't mind little inconvenience for something so big like the championships. The event has raised the standard of Bhubaneswar as one of the sporting hubs in India. The infrastructure created for the event will certainly help in nurturing some home talents," said Rakesh Panda, a banker.
 
 Besides, the social media is also abuzz with messages, tweets and posts on the championships and people shared their experiences of the grand and spectacular opening ceremony. 
 
 Some people are also following the achievements and tally of medals. 
 
 "A few days ago I didn't know many of the Indian athletes but now I can recognise at least two dozens. Prior to the   here I tried to get some knowledge about probable medal winners. It's good to watch them in action," said Vikram Samantray, an MBA student. 
 
