JAIPUR: An additional   of Rajasthan   was arrested by the sleuths of   (ACB) from his Heera Nagar situated residence in   on Wednesday for allegedly accepting a bribe in lieu of filing a   in regard to presence of an accused of rape before the   Sleuths said that in the investigations they will also find out if the IO who is the station house officer (SHO) of Sindhi camp police station connived with the advocate in the racket. 

 According to the ACB sources the complainant Yasudev Singh Chaudhary a senior advocate had approached senior officers of ACB stating that his client got an anticipatory bail on April, 17 in a matter of 376(Rape) lodged at Sindhi Camp police station. While granting the bail the high court laid a condition in which it was said that his client will have to cooperate with the investigating officer who is the station house officer (SHO) of Sindhi camp police station and will have to regularly present at the police station whenever required. 
 
 “It was also directed by the high court that the accused additional government counsel Rati Ram Bainsla will file a compliance report on the regular presence of the accused. Bainsla according to the complainant asked for a bribe of Rs 10,000 to file a positive compliance report,” said a senior officer of ACB on Wednesday.
 
 The complainant said that the accused appeared before the IO on April, 22 and despite that the IO before the court filed a negative compliance report stating he did not appear. “Thus, Bainsla asked the complainant to pay a sum of Rs 10,000 in lieu of filling a positive compliance report. Chaudhary approached us. After completing verification of the complaint our team laid a trap in which the accused was arrested for accepting the bribe,” said Sachin Mittal, Inspector General of police, ACB. 
 
 Asked if the role of the IO would also be probed and ACB will investigate if he too was conniving with the additional government advocate Bainsla in this regard, Mittal, said, “Certainly this will also be probed in the investigation,” he added. 
 
 Further investigations in the case were on, they added. 
 
