HUBBALLI: Shravankumar's love for his parents is wellknown by now ­­ he carried his parents in two baskets tied with a bamboo pole so that they could fulfil their wish of visiting pilgrimage places.

 Hanumappa Kallappa Dasar, 38, is another such devoted son in   of Kushtagi taluk, Koppal. He has been taking his mother   Kallappa Dasar, 70, by pushcart to a hospital 2km away every week for a year. The village lacks road connectivity which would have enabled better bus facility.
 
 Hanumappa said his mother has been suffering from knee pain for a year and has to be taken to a primary health centre in neighbouring Chalageri village once a week. If she doesn't get medi cines, she suffers a lot.
 
 As we are not in position to hire a private vehicle and her condition is not so serious as to call an ambulance, we've been using a pushcart. There's no need for fuel; it just needs my energy,“ Hanumappa said.
 
 Hanumavva said her son tried to carry her on his shoulder. “It was not convenient for me. When my son came up with the idea of taking me by pushcart, I found it better. I just fold my legs and sit in the cart. He pushes the cart even in the scorching heat and I just cover my head with my sari pallu,“ she said.
 
 Ravi Guggari, a farmer in Junjalakoppa, has seen Hanumappa taking his mother to the bank and for other work too to Chalageri. “As he takes such wonderful care of his mother, villagers call him Shravankumar,“ he said.
 
 He added that Junjalakoppa doesn't have road connectivity. “Though it is 2kms from Chalageri, a concrete road from Chalageri ends 1km from the village and the remaining stretch is a mud road. A bus comes from Hanamasagar and goes to Kushtagi at 8.30am and returns at 5.30pm. Apart from this, we do not have any buses.Villages like Yarageri and Madikeri, which are nearby, are also deprived of good roads and bus facility.If the government connects Yarageri, Madikeri, Junjalakoppa with Chalageri by constructing a good road, then we can travel by bus,“ he said.
 
