LUDHIANA: Police on Sunday booked an ambulance driver for raping a 20-year-old woman on the pretext of marriage.   Singh, a resident of  , near  , also made her obscene video and along with his cousin   Singh of   village blackmailed the under-graduate student. 

 In her complaint to the police, the woman said, "Ranjeet, an aquaitance, had introduced me to his cousin Mandeep. I first met Mandeep in Mullanpur in 2016. After a few meetings, we became friends. Mandeep then tried to have physical relations with me on the promise of marriage. But I resisted and asked him to marry me first."
 
 A few months later, Mandeep asked the woman to accompany him to Ludhiana. "He said we had an appointment with an advocate for our marriage. But instead of going to the adate, he took me to a hotel in Ludhiana. There, he forced himself on me and made a video," she added. 
 
 Threatening to upload her pictures and video online, Mandeep started blackmailing her into having physical relations with him. "Thereafter, he raped me many times. He warned me against speaking about the incident. On May 3, he kidnapped me and violated me again," the woman told the police.
 
 The woman later learned from one of her friends that Mandeep was married and had been lying to her from the start. 
 
 Police have booked Mandeep under sections 376 (rape), 506 (criminal intimidation), 363 (punishment for kidnapping), 366 (kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage, etc) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). 
 
 A cop said, "Mandeep not only raped her on false promises, but also hid his marriage from her. He has two sons, aged four and two."
 
 Ranjeet has been booked for criminal intimidation and kidnapping. For, he introduced his schoolmate to his cousin, hid his marital status and assisted Mandeep in kidnapping and blackmailing her, he added. 
 
 Mullanpur police station SHO   said a manhunt has been launched to arrest the two. The medical examination of the complainant was conducted at civil hospital. 
 
