BHUBANESWAR: Drawing flak for dismal execution of Rs 1,000-crore Nabakalebara   projects in Puri, the state government's announcement of the new project - ABADHA (Augmentation of Basic Amenities and Development of Heritage and Architecture) - for holistic development and transformation of Puri into a world class heritage destination at a cost of Rs 100 crore has offered no solace to stakeholders. 

 "Everybody had expected Puri would undergo a sea change after chief minister   in February 2013 announced Rs 1,000 crore for infrastructure development for 2015 Nabakalebara Rath Yatra. But we did not see any visible development," said  , a hotelier.
 
 Poor execution of Nabakalebara projects was evident after the Grand Road in front of district headquarters hospital was frequently flooded by incessant rain. Over Rs 100 crore was spent for renovation of the drainage system. A portion of road overbridge on Bhubaneswar-Puri NH-316 near Malatipatapur also developed cracks. 
 
 Despite having rich tourism potential, Puri has so far failed to attract tourists, including high-end foreigners due to little recreational avenues. Jagannath Temple continues to be in the headlines due to misconduct of some priests and shabby ambience. "We have been demanding a thorough probe by a central agency into the massive financial irregularities in execution of projects announced during Nabakalebara. How can you now expect that the government would beautify Puri under Rs 100 crore ABADHA scheme," asked Priyadarshan Pattnaik, convener of  , a voluntary outfit. On December 19, Puri Gajapati Dibyasingha Deb came down heavily on the state government for poor execution of different projects.
 
 State tourism director Nitin Bhanudas Jawale said details of the budgetary allocation for ABADHA project would be worked out soon. "The finance minister announced the scheme just a few days ago. Components of the scheme and detailed project reports will be prepared shortly," Jawale told TOI. 
 
 Earlier, the Centre sanctioned crores of rupees for Puri under three different schemes iconic city project, pilgrimage rejuvenation and spiritual augmentation drive (Prasad) and Atal mission for rejuvenation and urban transformation (AMRUT) scheme. Tourists said Puri, which is considered a rich tourism treasure of the state, has lost its sheen. "Even though I along with my family strolled for some time on the beach, we could not find any recreational facility. The beach is dirty, dark and with hawkers chasing you at many places," said Abhinash Ray, a tourist. Puri draws almost half of the total visitors to Odisha. While nearly 1.15 crore tourists visited Odisha in 2015, about 42 lakh from them visited Puri. 
 
