IDUKKI: More rock falls are likely in the region warned   (GSI) after it studied the recent   at Pallivasal. GSI recommended the strengthening of the entire scrap face (jutting rocks on sides of mountain), including the critical knob, with suitable high-tensile steel net with rock nails and anchors to prevent such instances.

 As most of the streamlet valleys are prone to debris flow, it recommended that encroachment of the natural streamlets/streams should be avoided. Munnar and nearby areas are considered   and prone to landslide and rock fall. Most resorts, which have eight to 13 floors, in Munnar are constructed in valleys and hills, with a steep inclination of 70 degrees.
 
 GSI studied the phenomenon after rocks fell off the cliff on March 14 at midnight, damaging part of KSEB road, compound walls of hotels located on the downslope, and three cars that were parked on the road. GSI carried out a preliminary evaluation on March 16 and found that the event occurred on the crown scarp of Pallivasal rock, which is a part of multiple landslide complex, extending from 2nd Mile to just west of Ramaswamy Iyer Headworks.
 
 The rocks fell near the tunnels of Pallivasal power house. After the state disaster management authority put in a request, GSI did detailed geotechnical studies in the region to find the cause and assess the probability of recurrence of such events.
 
 The report also pointed that many precariously perched boulders and a few rock ledges were dipping at a shallower angle than the slope in the western-most and eastern-most parts. Examination and assessment of their stability was done and they were later classified as sub-critical, critical and super critical rocks.
 
 The area is considered as highly vulnerable and   and encroachments are rampant in the region. GSI pointed out the need for a detailed study in the area and recommended some immediate action to prevent rock falls. Protection methods were recommended for critical and super critical ledges and boulders.
 
 “The critical and super critical boulders may be stabilized by providing underlying support through concrete/masonry cladding wall support on the downward slope in conjunction with rubble packing. The cladding wall should be founded on rock, with reinforced pad anchored suitably with dowel rods. A few critical ledges had weathered and open joints. These ledges have to be protected by rock bolting and by filling the open joints with concrete,” the report said.
 
 The study was carried out in two spells, from March 30-April 13 and April 24-28 to isolate the  , identify the sliding plain and demarcate the probable locations of recurrence and to recommend mitigation/protective measures.
 
