AHMEDABAD: The key accused in the 2002  ,  , had developed a chest pain on the day of the incident and was admitted to a hospital in Khedbrahma town in Sabarkantha, a witness deposed before the   (SIT) court on Thursday.

  A defence witness,  , from   near Khedbrahma, during his examination said that Babubhai Patel alias Bajrangi had come to their village on February 28, 2002 accompanying other villagers who had returned with the body of a person killed in the Godhra train burning. During the funeral procession, Bajrangi complained of chest pain and was hospitalized at Dr Manibhai Patel’s hospital in Khedbrahma.
 
 Earlier,   had told the court that Bajrangi was in Derol Kampa till 2pm on February 28, 2002. Other witnesses examined on Thursday had told the court that they had seen accused persons like VHP leader Jaideep Patel and BJP councillor Vallabhbhai Patel at places other than the site of the massacre.
 
 Meanwhile, the dispute between the defence and prosecution intensified on the issue of cross-examination of defence witnesses. Defence advocate Chetan Shah complained to the court that the prosecution was unnecessarily asking the witnesses whether they had any idea that Muslims had suffered more damage and lost more lives in the riots. He also objected to the question on whether there was anger and anguish among Hindus on February 28, 2002.
 
 Advocate Shah on Thursday filed an application urging the court to allow him to cross examine two public prosecutors, Vihabhai Patel and Gaurang Vyas, who are Hindu. He contended that as the prosecution’s stand is that there was anguish and anger among all Hindus in Gujarat, he would like to examine these two Hindu prosecutors on this aspect. The defence has not demanded the examination of special prosecutor S G Shah, because he is Jain.
 
 At request of the defence lawyer, to question the two prosecutors on whether they had anger and anguish on the day after the Godhra carnage, special judge P B Desai has granted the prosecutors time to respond to the proposal. The court shall hear this aspect on Monday.
 
 In the Naroda Gam massacre, 11 persons were killed and more than 80 persons are facing trial for it.
 
