AMRITSAR:   between two Majithias is virtually turning Majha into a   The latest round of contention started with the alleged pummelling and humiliation of father-son Dalits duo -Kashmir Singh and his son Jagrup Singh, residents of Bagga village in Amritsar -on April 17. The incident got SAD's Majitha MLA Bikram Singh Majithia and   Lalli Majithia embroiled in a battle for political mileage.

 The alleged humiliation inflicted on the Dalits gave SAD an opportunity to portray itself as the `messiah' of the socially backward and denouncing the Congress. Akalis accused   leaders of suppressing the voice of their Dalit workers.
 
 Bikram also warned of a demonstration in front of Mattewal police station and a statewide agitation if action is not taken against the erring police officials by Tuesday . He accused cops of working at the behest of Lalli Majithia. Bikram was not only confronted by Congress workers on May 20, when he went to attend a police public meet held in the presence of ADGP (law and order) Rohit Chaudhary to deliberate on Kashmir's case, but many allegedly hurled expletives at him and some even hurled shoes at his car.
 
 Kashmir, who was in Jalandhar on Monday to attend a meeting of SC MLAs of SAD, said the police were being puppets in the hands of Congress leaders of the area. “All I need is justice. They thrashed me and my son, humiliated my wife and daughter,“ he alleged, adding that despite filing a complaint with Punjab Police, he got no help.
 
 “In my constituency , Congress workers are inciting criminal elements but we will not keep quiet,“ said Bikram.
 
 On the other hand, Lalli Majithia alleged that Akalis were indulging in petty politics. “Let Bikram say anything, law will take its own course,“ he said. Meanwhile, the National Commission for Schedule Castes (NCSC) has issued notice to ADGP (law and order) and Amritsar (rural) SSP to appear before its panel on Tuesday following a complaint of police inaction filed with the commission by the Punjab BJP .
 
