VILLUPURAM: Central Reserve Police Force   K Shankar, 40, who was one among the 12 personnel killed in a   attack in   on Saturday, had promised his wife that he would return to his native Kalumaram village in   district of Tamil Nadu during vacation in May to buy a piece of land and begin construction of their dream house. His body was brought to his native village on Sunday. 

 The apprehensions of his wife S Ezhilarasi, 38, a BSc and BEd degrees holder, that she, their two-year-old daughter and six-month-old son would not see him alive proved right. When she learnt that he had been transferred to naxal-prone zones in Chattisgargh from New Delhi, Ezhilarasi feared that a tragedy would raze down their dreams.
 
 “Ezhilarasi was worried when her husband was transferred to Chattisragh from New Delhi. Shankar promised her that he would return by May to select a piece of land to build a house. He used console her stating that she could manage the family while he was on duty serving the nation. He told her even if something worse happened, her education would come in handy to get her employment on compassionate grounds to look after the family. Unfortunately, her fears proved right as her husband was killed in a naxal attack,” said Ezilarasi’s elder sister T Shyamili attempting to hold back her tears.
 
 Shyamili said the couple got married in 2007 when Shankar was posted as one of the bodyguards of All India Congress Committee president Sonia Gandhi. “He last visited us during Pongal holidays. He stayed till February 3 before leaving for Chattisgarh. We were worried due to the tense situation in the naxal zone. He said everything was okay and he would be soon posted back in New Delhi,” Shyamili said.
 
 Shankar, the eldest son of an agrarian couple, used to insist on importance of education. “He was the eldest son of a poor couple. His parents, two brothers and two sisters are all farm coolies who depended on his income. He left his wife and two young children in her parents’ house stating that he would settle in his native village after retiring from service,” said Shyamili.
 
 
