GURGAON: A 53-year-old driver, Faiz Mohammed, who was working for a transport company in Udyog Vihar— TRX logistics — was shot dead by an unknown person near Hero Honda Chowk, while he was returning from a service station on Sunday evening. Police are yet to nab the accused.

 Faiz Mohammed had gone to Grace Toyota showroom on the 39th milestone to service his Toyota Innova taxi around 7pm. According to police, he entered the showroom/service centre at 7:01pm and left a few minutes later. The timings were recorded on the camera placed at the service centre.
 
 He was found shot dead near Hero Honda Chowk, but his car was switched on. According to police, Mohammed was shot at a very close range, and it could have been someone he gave a lift to on the way or someone who was inside the car. 
 
 According to police, Mohammed was shot from the left side of the head, and the bullet exited the body and also partially broke the side glass of the car.
 
 According to Mohammed’s employer at TRX logistics, Sudhir Yadav, who also filed the complaint on the basis of which an FIR was registered, the GPS location of the car shows that it stopped around 7:25pm.
 
 Mohammed used to pick up and drop passengers from the company to various locations in the white Toyota Innova, which belonged to the company, informed Yadav. 
 
 Mohammed belonged to and lived in   village in  , from where he commuted everyday. He started working at the company 2 years back. 
 
 According to Yadav, there were no complaints or threats which came to his notice in the previous two years. “He was a gentle and harmless person, and we haven’t had complaints about him getting into a fight or anything of that sort,” Yadav told TOI.
 
 Mohammed is survived by his wife and five children, all of who live in Palwal, informed the police. An FIR has been registered under Section 302 (murder). 
 
 The investigating officer PSI Naresh of the Kherki Dhaula police station said the car has been impounded, and the case is being investigated. There are no clues about the killer or the motive as of now. “The body has been handed over to the family, after carrying out the post-mortem examination,” he added.
 
