NAGPUR:   department cadres discussed issues pertaining to recruitment rules, revision of pay-scales and filling vacancies, among others, at a two-day meet of   on Friday. They also warned of launching an agitation if the issues are not sorted out at the earliest.

 The programme was organized by   (ITEF) in Byramji Town. 
 
 Member of Central Board of Direct Taxes VD Vishnoi, principal chief commissioner of   Rang Nath Jha, Nagpur, president of Confederation of Central Government Employees and Workers KKN Kutty, secretary general of IT Gazetted Officers Association Bhaskar Bhattacharya and president of ITEF Ashok Kanojia were present.
 
 "Even after meeting with union finance minister   earlier this year, a lot of issues are yet to be resolved. The minister did assure us but little progress has been made so far," said Kanojia. Strangely, the home and rent allowance (HRA) for central government employees has been reduced in the seventh pay commission, he said.
 
 "Currently, HRA is 24% in metropolitans and 18% in tire-two cities of the basic pay which is less than the previous 30% and 20% respectively. However, the component in tire-three cities has increased to 12% from the earlier 10%," said Kanojia.
 
 Kanojia also said that the IT employees had protested against some of the provisions made in the current pay commission in March. Considering the delay in action by the Centre, ITEF plans to stage another agitation.
 
 According to Kutty, 45% of the total positions in IT department are still vacant which the government has been struggling to fill. He said, "About 27,000 new jobs were created during the previous regime which have not been filled. The department publishes advertisements for the jobs, but that isn’t enough."
 
 Kutty said, "The second phase of filing of advance taxes will start soon. Now that there is a shortage of workforce, the workload will increase on existing employees which will cause trouble."
 
 Even the minimum wages fixed in the seventh pay commission are less considering the rising cost of living, according to Kutty. "We gave a submission to the government regarding this and it was agreed that the amount would be increased to some extent. But it seems the government has not honoured the agreement.
 
