PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The   (PCMC) will ring in World   by organising an awareness campaign and special   drive for the   on June 5.

 The move came after PCMC slipped to 72nd position in its Swachh Bharat ranking this year.
 
 “If households can segregate wet and dry garbage, it will be easier for the civic body to transport the waste to processing units and then to the Moshi garbage depot. PCMC will start the drive on June 5,” said municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar. 
 
 Admitting the dip in Swachh ranking, the commissioner dwelled on three aspects to make Pimpri Chinchwad the cleanest in state. 
 
 “The civic body will focus on 100% garbage collection and transporting it to the processing units. There will be no negligence in this regard. Health facilities will be provided in slum areas. Waste segregation should begin from the source,” he said.
 
 For the past two years, the civic body has failed to achieve maximum waste segregation in households due to lack of public awareness and unsensitised garbage collectors who are appointed on contractual basis.
 
 The hopper rickshaws used for door-to-door waste collection have separate compartments for dry and wet trash. People, however, do not segregate the waste which leads to collectors mix the garbage. 
 
 Two years ago, PCMC had distributed two small garbage buckets of seven-litre capacity each to over 4.5 lakh households. The initiative was funded by Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission of the urban development department.
 
  from Kasarwadi said, “Most of the people are using the bins to store unwanted items. Some are using these as pots for small plants.”
 
 Some workers stand or squat over the garbage pile in the carrier autorickshaws even though there is enough room in the front. This makes them vulnerable to falling off the vehicle and is a health hazard too.
 
 While PCMC is upbeat about the drive, housing societies and social organisations are skeptical about it.
 
 Santosh Maskar, chairman, Roseland housing society, Pimple Saudagar said, “Citizens need to segregate waste as per wet, dry and domestic hazardous garbage. However, the civic body has given only two types of bins. One month is too less a period for the municipal corporation to create awareness and implement the project. For our society, it took us around six months to establish awareness while the implementation began in one-and-half years time.”
 
