NASHIK:   (  virus) continues to claim lives across the district as in the past fortnight a total of three people have lost their lives to this deadly disease.

 The district health officials said they had taken various steps to detect   suffering from swine flu and immediately bring them under treatment. Until May 5, the district had recorded 30 deaths due to swine flu.
 
 Suresh Jagdale, civil surgeon of Nashik civil  , said, “As of now there have been 33 deaths. Three deaths have occurred in entire district in the past two-and-a-half weeks. However, we are regularly screening patients to check if they have caught the H1N1 virus and the suspected patients are immediately brought under medication.”
 
 Over the past five-and-a-half months, 280 patients have been admitted in various hospitals across the district. Senior health officials said while 169 were positive and immediately brought under treatment, they had also admitted 111 patients who had symptoms like swine flu.
 
 Of the total 280 patients, who were admitted in various hospitals, 132 were in the civil hospital or the rural hospitals at taluka level and 148 were admitted in Nashik city limits.
 
 Jagdale said in rural parts, the   continued giving patients general flu tablet to the patients and the concerned patients are rushed to civil hospital only when they are in the last stage of swine flu.
 
 “We have conducted workshops of medical officers and private doctors in the city as well as the district to sensitise them. On the other hand, patients should also not be afraid of swine flu and start the treatment immediately,” added Jagdale.
 
 He said in case of cold, fever and throat pain, a patient should immediately consult a doctor and start medication. “If these problems do not subside and aggravate further, the patient should revisit the doctor for further treatment. Meanwhile, the tamiflu tablets which were earlier available in schedule H drug stores are now made available in general medical stores so that these tablets are available everywhere,” he said.
 
 Patients suffering from cold, fever, throat pain are also screened at government medical facilities across the district. “From January 1 to May 21, a total of 54,665 patients have been screened,” he informed.
 
 With 33 deaths from swine flu this year, the figure of deaths from H1N1 is third highest since 2009. A total of 87 people died of swine flu in 2015 and 39 in 2010. H1N1 has already claimed 33 lives in the first five-and-a-half months of this year. 
 
