HYDERABAD: Bench strength is a good indicator of team's depth and India seem to be doing well on that count.  , in after an injured   missed out on the fifth Test against England in December, grabbed the chance with a memorable a triple century at Chennai. It highlighted a happy problem of plenty but on Wednesday , skipper   made it clear that Rahane deserves to walk back into the squad on the weight of his performance over the last two years.

 “One game doesn't overshadow two years of hard work from another player,“ Kohli said on Wednesday . “You have to understand what Jinx (Rahane) has done for the team over the last two years. Karun was stepping into his shoes and what he did was remarkable. Sealing a spot as far as the squad is concerned ­ that's what Karun did. But you can't overlook two years of hard work from Ajinkya with just one Test match. He deserves to walk back into the team whenever he is fit,“ said Kohli, making it clear that when it comes to winning Test matches there will be no room for sentiment.
 
 To buttress his point, the Indian skipper said: “An injury should not deplete a team.That's something that bench strength contributes to. We are lucky to have guys who are up and ready for Test cricket. Jay ant (Yadav) walked in beautifully. In T20s and One-dayers you saw (Yuzvendra) Chahal and Kedar (Jadhav) stepping up.We do have a pool of players who are coming up nicely . Credit obviously goes to the selectors for identifying them, and to the players as well to practice their disciplines regularly , work on their fitness levels and have consistent performances in the domestic circuit. That's how you come into that pool,“ he said and added “we also need to back players for a long time for them to become match-winners.“
 
 This apart, India, like all strong teams before, have made winning a habit. “We have been able to win games because of persistence by the bowlers, ap plication by the batsmen and by coming back from tough situations. So our aim is going to be exactly the same. We don't feel invincible. We feel we can perform against any team in the world and win against any team in the world. But that does not make us feel that we are not beatable. You have to understand your strengths and weaknesses and this team does that very well,“ he added.
 
 Every Test has been a learning curve and the young Indian captain has been wiser for it.“I'd say, we have done well over the last four Test matches, not before. We did the patience bit very well against New Zealand and England, bogging down batsmen and earning wickets in difficult situations. We want to do that to improve as a team.Sometimes people tend to get carried away and don't understand the importance of being patient. But I think the guys have the fitness to bowl all day in one channel and when the door opens, just sneak in. That's the biggest learning we have had in the past season and we'd like to take that forward.“
 
 Bangladesh, Kohli felt, need to play more Tests to improve.“They have quality cricketers.If you don't play Test cricket very often, you will never understand the mindset. If they play more Test cricket they will become solid Test players and a solid team as well. We are wary of their skills and the talent that they bring to the table,“ he said.
 
 
