NAGPUR: The School Headmasters Charitable Association (SHMCA), a group representing principals of government-aided schools in the city, will be organizing a day-long workshop on April 27 to bring more clarity for its members on the soon-to-be-launched online admissions for Std XI. 

 Dilip Bose, secretary of SHMCA, said, “There are many initiatives of the state government about which still many principals have some doubts. Our plan is to bring in expert speakers who will be able to answer all questions related to the online admissions.” This decision was taken at the executive body meeting of SHMCA held on Tuesday.
 
 Association president and senior academician Zaffar Khan said, “We are also creating awareness about how principals should transition from being just teachers to administrators. The post of principal requires a lot strategic human resource management, dealing with social activists, parents and the government. The newly-appointed principals sometimes struggle to manage this multi-faceted role and that’s why in our one-day workshop we will take care of this as well.” Principals will also be told about handling Right to Information ( ) queries and keeping proper records.
 
 However, the Centralized Admission Procedure (CAP) going online won’t be the only topic of discussion. Bose said, “There are important matters related to excess teachers and curriculum etc which can be taken up.” The online admission for Std XI will clearly be the focus for that day’s workshop as it is the only new, and major, initiative due to start from 2017-18 academic session. TOI was the first to report about how CAP will, after 12 years of being launched, will shift completely online. The system, till last year, was partially online which required a hardcopy application form to be submitted by the student. This form was then digitized by CAP officials and entered into a database that ultimately sorted applicants according to the merit list.
 
 SHMCA will be taking forward the brief given by the education department to create awareness about online CAP. Last week, the education department had met with principals and asked them to hold guidance camps for parents for online CAP. But the new system is still throwing up many questions for principals and, in the absence of an information booklet which is expected to be published in a week or so, there is a chance of being blindsided by questions from parents.
 
