PUNE: The nominations have been filed, but the real challenge for political parties comes now in convincing rebel candidates to withdraw from the race. 

 As many as 2,661 aspirants have jumped into the poll fray for the 162 seats in PMC. The last date for withdrawal is February 7. 
 
 The parties had kept secret their official candidates out of fear of a rebellion. But after the lists were out on Friday, angry aspirants and workers took to the streets. The   and the   saw the maximum protests. 
 
 The list of candidates included a last-minute shift in loyalties just to secure tickets. Reshma Bhosale, sitting NCP corporator and wife of NCP MLC Anil Bhosale, got a BJP ticket. As many as nine of the 10 corporators, who joined the BJP from the other parties, secured a ticket from their new party triggering anger among the loyalists.
 
 “It is unfortunate that she opted to go to the BJP. It is ethically and morally not good sign. We will take a call about the next action,” city unit chief of the   said.
 
 She said the party has given many opportunities to Bhosale including the MLC post. The party has to give justice to as many workers as possible. There are limitations in providing positions to one family. This should have been understood before the move to another party, she added.
 
 Tickets were also given to heavyweights. “Some members represent the family of our leader. We have checked their ground work before giving candidates a ticket,” Chavan said.
 
 BJP workers took to the streets to protest against the move to sideline core workers. A group of supporters blackened the face of city unit chief   on posters. 
 
 “We have been working for years but the party is giving ticket to outsiders who came at the last minute. It is unfair on the part of a party which claims to be different,” the agitating aspirants said. They staged a hunger strike at the BJP’s office on JM Road. They were joined by their supporters.
 
 “Workers should slap themselves. The party has become like an IT firm. Those who job-hop benefit more,” Madhukar Mazire, a party hopeful from Kothrud, who did not get the ticket, said.
 
