BHOPAL: Its yet another wake-up call for the authorities to make move to save the dying Shahpura and Lower lakes. The Central Pollution Control Board has said that the lake water is not fit even for household purposes — leave alone using it for drinking. 

 In a report published in a state-level e-bulletin jointly monitored by the CPCB and the its state branch, the Board has stated that rising califorms including faecal ones have pushed the waters of Lower Lake near Kalighat and  , into the category of ‘non satisfactory’ water quality.
 
 The report has raised a question mark over the tall claims made by Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) of “continuous cleaning” of these lakes under its monitoring of lake conservation department.
 
 To fulfil the objectives of Water Prevention and Control of Pollution Act, 1974, CPCB and Madhya Pradesh Pollution Control Board (MPPCB) have started monitoring of different water bodies at 155 locations across the state. It followed the schemes of Global Environmental Monitoring System (GEMS) and Monitoring of Indian National Aquatic Resources System. 
 
 The report released recently has water quality index of water bodies across the state from September 2016 to December 2016. According to the report, spill outlet at Lower Lake near Kalighat has recorded a faecal coliform as high as 120 MPN/100ml, while that at Shahpura lake spill outlet is an alarming 210MPN/100ml. Total coliform has been found 1,600MPN/100ml. Biochemical oxygen dissolved in both the lakes too is on the higher side at 3.3 ml/l and 3.6mg/l respectively. Average coliform level throughout the year was reported to be 85.71 to 105 MPN per 100 ml.
 
 The only silver lining is that Upper Lake sampling points have been found within the satisfactory water quality level.
 
 Other water bodies across the state which have been put under the ‘not satisfactory’ water quality category include, river Kahn at Kabitkhedi and at Shakkar Khedi, Moti Talab in Balaghat, Rani Talab and Hanumantal in Jabalpur; Mandakini at Ramghat in Chitrakoot, Satna, river Kshipra in Ujjain at Triveni and Gaughat and river Chambal in Nagda.
 
 According to PCB officials, the monitoring is being done on a regular basis so that the status report of Water Quality Index can be maintained. However, the report does not elaborate on pH level of the water bodies in the state.
 
 GFX: 
 
 LIVING ON THE EDGE OF HAZARD
 
 Shahpura Lake:
 
 Faecal coliform: 210MPN/100ml
 
 Total coliform: 1,600MPN/100ml
 
 Dissolved biochemical oxygen: 3.6mg/l 
 
 Average coliform level throughout the year: 85.71 to 105 MPN per 100 ml
 
