TRICHY:   president Dr S Ramadoss hinted at corruption in the proposed recruitment of non-teaching staff to fill 60 vacancies at Bharatidasan University (BDU) in Trichy. He sought the intervention of the governor to warn the vice-chancellor of   not to honour the appointments. He also sought an enquiry into the alleged corruption in appointments in other universities. 

 “A plan to indulge in corruption through the recruitment of non-teaching staff for 60 vacancies at BDU has come to light. It has been learnt that vice-chancellor of the university will conduct the interview on March 18 and 19 for the recruitment to fill vacancies by accepting money,” said Ramadoss in his statement on Tuesday. 
 
 Citing the petition of a Scholars Forum of BDU submitted to the governor, he alleged that the vice-chancellors of BDU Dr VM Muthukumar has demanded Rs 6lakh for the posts of assistants, Rs4lakh for the posts of junior assistants and Rs3lakh for other posts. 
 
 Stating that the allegations of the forum cannot be ignored, Ramadoss said “Vice-chancellor Muthukumar attains his superannuation on June 12 this year. The rules prevent any outgoing vice-chancellors from taking policy decisions and appointing staff when their retirement is due in three months. So, it is beyond doubt an attempt to indulge in corruption through the appointments.” 
 
 He also alleged such corruptions in the appointments of staff in Anna University in Chennai, Bharathiyar University in Coimbatore and Manonmaniam Sundaranar University in Tirunelveli. 
 
 “Unlike the previous years, the appointments of vice-chancellors were done based on bribe and not merit when   was in power,” he alleged.
 
 When TOI contacted the vice chancellor of Bharathidasan University V M Muthu Kumar over phone, he ruled out any such appointments made recently. He refused to comment any further on the allegations levelled by PMK leader S Ramadoss.
 
 Ramadoss also demanded for the appointment of vice-chancellors for Madras university, Anna University, Madurai Kamaraj University,   Fisheries University and The Tamil Nadu Dr Ambedkar Law University 
 
