CHENNAI: Frowning upon municipal administration department secretary   for having disregarded a court directive relating to services of a subordinate officer in the department,   not only made Reddy to appear in person, but also imposed Rs 50,000 cost on him.

 Justice  , taking note of the fact that the officer had at last appeared in court after the matter was adjourned several times and contempt notice was issued for having ‘wasted the precious time’ of the court for about a year, said: “K Phanindra Reddy, IAS, secretary to government, municipal administration and water supply department, appeared today by filing a belated affidavit dated March 10, 2017 tendering unconditional apology for the delay in implementing the order of this court dated March 11, 2016. This belated affidavit was filed only after this court indicated to them that there was no affidavit of apology from him. Such an affidavit of the contemnor cannot compensate the wasting of precious time of the court and also the financial loss caused to the exchequer towards litigation expenses.”
 
 Directing Reddy to pay Rs 50,000 to Tamil Nadu Legal Services Authority within four weeks, Justice Raja said: “It is the duty of the court to uphold and maintain its dignity. The court should not hesitate to enforce its own order by exercising the power of contempt, whenever there is an instance like the one on hand. Otherwise, not only the person, in whose favour the order, judgment or decree is passed will be losing his confidence in the court, but also the entire proceedings will be rendered naught and meaningless, consequently, the sanctity of the court's proceedings would be rendered to mockery and an empty formality.”
 
 The contempt proceedings were initiated by one Lawrence against whom a charge memo was issued on July 28, 2008. Since no action was taken till 2014, during which time Lawrence lost his promotion opportunities, he moved the high court for the first time. The court had in December 2014 asked authorities to pass appropriate orders on the issue. 
 
 Though the charges were not proved at the end of inquiry in February 2015 and the court directed the authorities to take appropriate decision, a second inquiry was initiated on same charges in violation of rules. It, predictably, held him guilty of most of charges. It was then that the high court issued statutory contempt notice against Reddy.
 
