Ludhiana: With coffers of the Ludhiana municipal corporation running empty, its employees have been devoid of August salary and its vehicles have almost been grounded in the absence of fuel.

 With petrol pump owners refusing to give fuel to civic body owing to pending dues, the vehicles had come to halt for the past three days. The situation was slightly better on Thursday as the officials got a little payment released.
 
 For the past three days, the MC was unable to arrange diesel and petrol for its vehicles hampering work. The officials claimed that on Thursday, MC released Rs 30 lakh for the petrol pumps after which they got only partial relief. The total payment due to petrol pumps is around Rs 4 crore.
 
 One of the MC officials said that they have to clear around Rs 200 crore liabilities in which the payment of contractors, companies, petrol pumps and other expenditures are included.
 
 He said as far as the fuel is concerned, the old and dilapidated condition of vehicle is also responsible for the wastage of money. He said first of all MC should replace petrol-run vehicles with diesel-run vehicles as it will result in saving money. Moreover, the existing vehicles don’t give good mileage and require more fuel to run. He said most of the cars and gypsies being used by officials and field staff were more than 10 years old and need replacement.
 
 The officials claimed that they haven’t got the first installment of GST till date whereas the installment of VAT and octroi on electricity are no longer in existence now. Moreover, the major portion of MC income is dependent on the recovery from taxes and that is also not streamlined.
 
 Usually MC pays salary and pension to employees with the installment of VAT and octroi on electricity and now both have come to end, therefore MC found it hard to pay salary to the staff. 
 
 MC commissioner Jaskiran Singh admitted that there was some pending amount to be paid to petrol pumps from where they were getting fuel for the vehicles, but he claimed that they were clearing the dues as soon as the funds were made available.
 
 Akali councillor Tanvir Dhaliwal said Congress leaders were making announcements worth crores, but in their tenure of six months, the condition of MC has gone from bad to worse. He said not only fuel, entire development has come to standstill in these six months.
 
 Dhaliwal questioned the Congress leaders to explain as to when they will release the money which was announced last week by the local bodies minister Navjot Sidhu.
 
 Congress councillor MLA Sanjay Talwar claimed that they had met the senior officials on Wednesday and by next week some amount will be released for the development works and the situation will become normal to some extent.
 
 As per accounts branch of MC, bills worth Rs 94 lakh were approved for petrol pumps and out of this bills worth Rs 30 lakh has been cleared and Rs 64 lakh is still pending. However, petrol pumps are claiming that bills worth around Rs 4 crore are pending. 
 
 BJP councillor Sushma Mehta claimed that fogging in the area has come to a halt completely because MC is not getting fuel even for the fogging machines. She said problem is getting severe with each passing day. Congress councillor Rakesh Prashar however said fogging was done in his ward, but it was done on bicycle instead of some vehicle as fuel is not available. Another Congress councillor Gurdeep Neetu said that they have fuel only for Thursday and they are not sure whether they will get it on Friday or not.
 
 Revenue sources gone
 
 From VAT | Rs 20-25 cr approx
 
 Octroi on electricity | Rs 2.5-3 cr approx
 
 Expenditure on salaries | Rs 26-27 cr approx 
 
 Expenditure on pension | Rs 3.5-4 cr approx 
 
 
