BENGALURU: Reaching offices in   isn't a breeze. Employees working in tens of MNCs in   take the longest time and cover the longest distance to reach their workplaces of all cities in India.

 A study by MoveInSync, a  , reveals that commuting to workplaces in   takes a   on average 93.91 minutes, and the average distance covered is 38.97km, followed by Vatika Business Park, also in Gurugram, reaching where takes on average 67.95 minutes.
 
 Data has been collected from seven office locations in Delhi-NCR. Employees working in Greater Noida take 57 minutes on average, covering an average distance of just 19km. Officergoers in New Delhi take on average 51 minutes. The shortest commute is to Najafgarh Road which on average takes 42 minutes.
 
 Pune has three office hubs, two of which figure in the list of places that take long to travel to. Employees take on average 48.98 minutes and 43 minutes to reach IT hub Kharadi and industrial suburb Hinjewadi respectively.
 
 Deepesh Ag arwal, cofounder of MoveInSync, says that the IT hubs of Pune, Gurugram, Noida and even Bengaluru came up much after the cities were planned and are located far away, a major cause for long time taken to reach there. “DLF Cyber City is a classic example. People who work here travel from far off places in Delhi and Noida.The average distance is 39 km, quite high even by NCR standards. For Pune, both Kharidi and Hinjawedi are on extreme ends of the city and the average distance cov ered is 20 km,“ says Agarwal.
 
 Mumbai, on the other hand, fares better. Data shows that an employee sharing a cab to work in the nation's financial capital takes on average 47 minutes to cover average distance of 19km. Malad is the only place where employees took on average 50.77 minutes to travel. Goregaon East among the five central business districts in Greater Mumbai comes second taking 48 minutes to cover 18 km. To reach Belapur, Powai and Airoli, it takes 46 to 47 minutes on average.
 
 Agarwal says the cab services engaged in employee transportation is a bigger industry than Ola and Uber ride-sharing services. “People who have flexibility of time are the only ones who can benefit from UberPOOL or Ola Share. For others who have a fixed shift time, a majority of MNCs and Indian firms have, cabs or maxi-cabs will remain relevant in the coming years,“ he says.
 
 
 
 
 Bengaluru's Whitefield is perhaps south India's biggest IT hub but the long time it takes to reach offices is undesirable. There's an urgent need to boost mobility and ease chaos on roads leading to the bustling area. Officegoers spend on travelling almost half the time they do at their workplaces. It's time the government made sincere efforts to ensure a faster commute to the city's prominent office hubs such as Whitefield and Electronic City. And reining in the city's mounting traffic is crucial to achieve this aim
 
