JALANDHAR: In a first in recent years, the top Punjab leadership of SAD is not campaigning for the DSGMC elections even though senior leaders of the party, except CM  , have reached Delhi to chalk out strategies.

 This is mostly because of the criticism mounted on the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) after controversial Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim extended his support to the party for the recently concluded Punjab elections. Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) elections are of importance as the Sikh body has an annual budget of more than Rs 100 crore and runs several educational institutions. For the SAD, it is important because it reflects the support enjoyed by it among Sikhs in Delhi.
 
 The first time SAD managed to win seats in DSGMC was in 2013. Ever since, Badal and his son and SAD chief Sukhbir Badal have campaigned extensively in the elections. This time around, Sukhbir and other senior Akali leaders are confining themselves to backroom management. Sources said the SAD held a meeting at his residence in Delhi on Thursday and took feedback from candidates. Other Punjab leaders present in the meeting included: Rajya Sabha MPs Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa and Bawlinder Singh Bhundar, Punjab agriculture minister Tota Singh and son Makhan Brar, education minister Dr Daljit Singh Cheema, Lok Sabha MP Prem Singh Chandumajra, SGPC former president Jagir Kaur, and former minister Hira Singh Gabria.
 
 Except for Jagir Kaur and Gabria, who have only held small meetings so far, none of the leaders who attended the meeting have campaigned for the gurdwara elections.
 
 This situation has catapulted DSGMC president and SAD Delhi chief Manjit Singh GK into the limelight, as he is leading the party’s campaign. Sources in SAD revealed that apart from Jagir Kaur and Gabria, Punjab minister Gulzar Singh Ranike has held small meetings.
 
 The decision by SAD Delhi leaders of keeping senior party leaders from Punjab away was taken as they feared adverse reaction from the Sikh electorate. Akalis taking support from Dera Sacha Sauda in the Punjab elections has not gone well among Sikhs. Even G K had sought action against leaders who went to seek the dera’s support.
 
 
