The empress Mumtaz Mahal was not the only love of Shah Jahan’s life. The   emperor who built   fell in love with Jaunpur, to the extent that he named it Shiraz-e-Hind. Only 60km from Varanasi, one of India’s most visited tourist destinations,   was the seat of the Sharqi kingdom which built several monuments including the Jaunpur Fort and the Atala Masjid. 

 What could have been a   is lying in oblivion. Statistics from state tourism directorate show that over 1.70 crore tourists visited Varanasi region in 2016, but only about 7 lakh came to Jaunpur and most of them came were domestic travellers. Apathy towards the heritage of Jaunpur is all the more regrettable as seven out of nine MLAs in the city have belonged to the ruling party which takes credit for linking Agra, Varanasi and Lucknow through the Heritage Arc project. None of the candidates talks about development of the local economy or creating jobs through tourism. Jaunpur poet Sabhajit Dwivedi Prakhar said the story is linked to descriptions in Jaunpurnama, a book in Persian from Jehangir’s era. 
 
 The book describes, on his way back to Delhi from a battle in Bengal,   and his army men took seriously ill. A couple of soldiers died while most felt they were on the verge of dying . Shah Jahan, who had immense faith in Sufism landed at the seat of sufi saint Shah Nazeer Baba and prayed for everyone's well being. At the mazar, in a place called Shahganj (municipal board in city), he got to know about Jaunpur. 
 
 “On hearing that Jaunpur has 984 authors, poets, thinkers and philosophers he walked down to the city and fell in love with it when he saw the monuments. Comparing it with Shiraz, an elite city in Iran he called it Shiraz-e-Hind,” said Prakhar. 
 
 Officials at the Archaeological Survey of India said, “Glimpse of Jaunpur architecture is seen in Mughal monuments like Agra Fort.” Jaunpur was founded by Firoz Shah Tughlaq in 14th century. At the end of the century, Malik Sarwar, governor of Jaunpur, declared his autonomy and his five successors Malik Mubarak Quranfal, Ibrahim Shah, Mahmud Shah, Bhikhan Khan and lastly Hussain Shah are called Sharqi kings who ruled the kingdom for a century. It was an era of peace and prosperity with remarkable achievements in art, architecture, education, trade and commerce.
 
 Besides Shahi fort, some masjids like Atala, Jami, Lal Darwaza, Jhanjhiri and Char Ungli represent the grandeur of Sharqi architecture even after the massive demolition and sacrilege by Sultan Sikandar Lodi. Akbar overthrew the last Sharqi king and built the Shahi Pul connecting Jaunpur fort with the city area.
 
 Jaunpur: The empress Mumtaz Mahal was not the only love of Shah Jahan’s life. The Mughal emperor who built Taj Mahal fell in love with Jaunpur, to the extent that he named it Shiraz e Hind. Only 60km from Varanasi, one of India’s most visited tourist destinations, Jaunpur was the seat of the Sharqi kingdom which built several monuments including the Jaunpur Fort and the Atala Masjid. 
 
 What could have been a popular tourist destination is lying in oblivion. Statistics from state tourism directorate show that over 1.70 crore tourists visited Varanasi region in 2016, but only about 7 lakh came to Jaunpur and most of them came were domestic travellers. Apathy towards the heritage of Jaunpur is all the more regrettable as seven out of nine MLAs in the city have belonged to the ruling party which takes credit for linking Agra, Varanasi and Lucknow through the Heritage Arc project. None of the candidates talks about development of the local economy or creating jobs through tourism. 
 
 Jaunpur poet Sabhajit Dwivedi Prakhar said the story is linked to descriptions in Jaunpurnama, a book in Persian from Jehangir’s era. 
 
 The book describes, on his way back to Delhi from a battle in Bengal, Shah Jahan and his army men took seriously ill. A couple of soldiers died while most felt they were on the verge of dying . Shah Jahan, who had immense faith in Sufism landed at the seat of sufi saint Shah Nazeer Baba and prayed for everyone's well being. At the mazar, in a place called Shahganj (municipal board in city), he got to know about Jaunpur. 
 
 “On hearing that Jaunpur has 984 authors, poets, thinkers and philosophers he walked down to the city and fell in love with it when he saw the monuments. Comparing it with Shiraz, an elite city in Iran he called it Shiraz-e-Hind,” said Prakhar. 
 
 Writer Aqil Jaunpuri informed that shiraz also means sweet. “Some people think Shah Jahan meant to say that Jaunpur was the sweetest part of India But he must have fallen in love with the city as may be guessed from the fact that he stayed in Jaunpur for over a month and held ‘shastrarth’ (discrourse) besides felicitating the intelligentisa,” he said. 
 
 Officials at the Archaeological Survey of India said, “Glimpse of Jaunpur architecture is seen in Mughal monuments like Agra Fort.” 
 
 Jaunpur was founded by Firoz Shah Tughlaq in 14th century. At the end of the century, Malik Sarwar, governor of Jaunpur, declared his autonomy and his five successors Malik Mubarak Quranfal, Ibrahim Shah, Mahmud Shah, Bhikhan Khan and lastly Hussain Shah are called Sharqi kings who ruled the kingdom for a century. It was an era of peace and prosperity with remarkable achievements in art, architecture, education, trade and commerce.
 
 Besides Shahi fort, some masjids like Atala, Jami, Lal Darwaza, Jhanjhiri and Char Ungli represent the grandeur of Sharqi architecture even after the massive demolition and sacrilege by Sultan Sikandar Lodi. Akbar overthrew the last Sharqi king and built the Shahi Pul connecting Jaunpur fort with the city area.
 
 
