CHANDIGARH: At a time when Haryana government is enjoying the success of first Pravasi Haryana Divas, a doctorturned-politician from Panchkula and his team has every reason to celebrate.

 Dr  , global coordinator for Punjab and  , and his team had been working for the past two years for the event and helped track down   from across the world. Last year, the event was postponed due to violence that occurred during the Jat agitation for reservation in February .
 
 Johar had teamed up with  , in-charge of foreign affairs wing of BJP, for various assignments.
 
 “We had been working for this event for the past two years. Our priority was to ensure participation of Haryanvi Diaspora like Punjabi Dia spora in governance and growth of the state. This year we had been able to get nearly 500 such persons to the venue. We are sure to improve the head count next time,“ said Johar.
 
 Johar said it was not that easy to track down the Diaspora with roots in Haryana.Gulshan Chhabra from Canada, Ravi Hooda from the UK, Ravi Sharma from Australia and Balesh Dhankar from New Zealand are some of the names who teamed up with him for the event.
 
 According to information, the team had gone to these countries ahead of the visit of chief minister   and his delegations. It has been for the first time that Haryana could track Diaspora of around 15,000 families having roots in the state. “Unlike the Punjabi diaspora, which is organized, we had to go around with lenses to lookout for those having roots in Haryana. Largely , the families are in the US, UK, Canada, Australia, China, Japan and Russia. It was due to them we could have an impressive gathering of 1,000 families each from these countries when the CM visited some of these countries,“ said Johar.
 
 He said some NRIs like Gaurav Aggarwal, Gaurav Ahlawat and Atul had announced to adopt the villages of Haryana. “Aggarwal was the first to adopt Dangra, a native village of Haryana BJP chief Subhash Barala. This is just a beginning. The people abroad needed some connect, which Pravasi Haryana Divas has offered them. Irrespective of their political affiliation, they are keen to be part of the governance in Haryana,“ said Johar.
 
