HYDERABAD:   Sunitha had carried a plastic container, probably containing some inflammable substance like kerosene, left it outside while entering a church and returned to pick it up a little later. This has given the police enough leads to conclude that she may have committed suicide at   colony in Madhapur on February 15. 

 At the time of her death, her friend Shravan, with whom she reportedly exchanged several messages, was not present anywhere near Bhagya Nagar, ruling out the murder angle for now, police sources said. 
 
 During the investigation, police found that Sunitha wanted to marry Shravan, who works for a corporate at Madhapur, but he was not ready for it. However, he had promised to marry her earlier, police said. 
 
 “During the post-mortem, it was found that Sunitha’s lungs and wind pipe had soot residue. This happens when some one immolates themself. She was found holding the plastic container and it appears like a case of  , which took place on February 15,” sources in the Cyberabad police told TOI. 
 
 On Valentine’s Day, Sunitha sent a message to Shravan saying she wanted to meet him. But the latter reportedly did not meet her and this might have upset Sunitha. The next day, four people saw her body burning. The witnesses, which includes a security guard, immediately dialled the police helpline. 
 
 The four had not seen anyone running away from that place. It was they who doused the burning purse, which saved the all-important SIM card that gave leads on the identity of the victim. However, there are still a few unanswered questions, which the police are trying to solve. 
 
 “We have verified and found that Shravan did not meet Sunitha. Also, he was also found at some other location at the time of the incident. Since he works in Madhapur, she came all the way to Bhagya Nagar and committed suicide there. We did not find any evidence pointing towards murder,” sources said. 
 
 On Monday, the Cyberabad police might make public their findings in the mysterious case. 
 
 
