COIMBATORE: With   facing an acute  , textile unites in Dollar City   are also struggling. Though   help revive 90% of the water required for the  , the remaining has to be added afresh every day. Tirupur’s industries are struggling to find the 10% fresh water.

 Industrialists in Tirupur are facing such a crisis perhaps for the first time in 20 years. With the awareness about the impact of dyeing effluents on the environment, all units in Tirpur have installed zero liquid discharge facilities. “This helps us recover 90% of the water required for the industry. The remaining 10% has to be topped up every day,” said the president of Tiruppur Exporters’ Association (TEA), Raja M Shanmugam.
 
 At present, 10-20% water required for topping up is being supplied by the New Tirupur Area Development Corporation Limited (NTADCL) from Bhavani River. “The project is not running at its full capacity (185mld). At present, the supply is only half. And, given the shortage of water in Bhavani River, we might find it difficult in the coming days,” Raja Shanmugam told TOI.
 
 The Tirupur district administration had held meetings with local industrialists and had decided to provide corporation’s sewage water for recycling. “We will collect sewage water from two or three designated points and recycle it. We hope to meet the demands for the topping up every day from this,” said Raja Shanmugam.
 
 Industrialists say that water shortage has reduced their efficiency by nearly 25%. “Textiles industry is heavily water dependent, and shortage of water means it will impact our efficiency. At present, a large number of industries in Tirupur are functioning at 20-25% below their efficiency levels,” said the managing director of Classic Polo, TR Sivaram.
 
 There are also worries about the drinking water requirement for the labourers working in textile units. “We are running short of drinking water too. Though we approached Mettur dam officials requesting them to release more water, they say that unless there is supply from Karnataka, water can’t be supplied,” Raja Shanmugam added. 
 
 
