NEW DELHI: The state election commission ( ) will constitute 136   to   the enforcement of the model code of conduct for the municipal polls. Each team comprising civic staff and police personnel will look after two  .

 The poll code came into force at 5pm on March 14. Senior officials claim they haven’t observed any violation in the past week. “The teams will be formed in a couple of days. The returning officers (RO) of the wards will be the in-charge. Each team will inspect and submit a report to the ROs and action will be initiated, if necessary, under Delhi Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, 2007,” said a senior official from SEC.
 
 The state poll panel has identified and mapped 13,500 polling stations, according to the new demarcation of wards. Senior officials said a few more stations will be added. “Post delimitation, polling stations had to be reassigned and the SEC had deployed 72 ROs, 272 assistant ROs and 11 district election officers (DEOs) to do the job,” said the senior official.
 
 An awareness drive will be launched two weeks before the election date. The polls will be held on April 22 and the results will be declared on April 25. The poll notification will be issued on Mach 27. SEC will initiate a scrutiny of the nomination forms on April 5 and the candidates can withdraw their nomination by April 8.
 
 The SEC has appointed 72 general observers, 72 expenditure observers, 1,500 sector officers and about 70,000 polling staff. There will be 35 counting centres across the city.
 
 The SEC has instructed the three municipal commissioners to submit action taken reports on a regular basis for any violations. “It is a routine process as we have to monitor that the code of conduct is not violated,” said P K Gupta, commissioner of the north corporation.
 
 Furthermore, the SEC has directed the three corporations to ensure that basic facilities are provided at each polling booth. “They need to ensure that packaged drinking water, shed, toilet, a ramp for physically challenged voters and a voting compartment are available at each polling station,” added the senior official. 
 
 
