Vellore: Two cell phones, three sim cards and a charger were seized from the cell of   (alias) Sriharan, one of the life convicts in Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, in Vellore Central prison on Saturday evening, authorities confirmed.

 Superintendent of the Central Prison G Shanmugha Sundaram said the gadgets were seized when a surprise check was conducted in Murugan's cell in the high security prisoners’ block around 7 pm on Saturday. They found the cell phones, SIM cards and charger hidden behind photographs of some deities in Murugan’s cell.
 
 Following this, prison officials booked a case against Murugan for possessing banned gadgets in the cell. "We will also take action against the prisoners as per the prison manual and cut the privileges such as interview and procuring groceries from the prison canteen," said a senior prison official. 
 
 Officials questioned Murugan as to how he sourced the gadgets and who had helped him to smuggle them into the prison. "He is not forthcoming with information and refused to disclose how he got the gadgets," said the official.
 
 Murugan is a B class inmate. He has been meeting his wife  , who was also undergoing life imprisonment in the same case, once every fortnight at the premises of the Special Prison for Women. “It is possible that we may cancel the permission for the interview (meeting) with his wife,” said an official 
 
 Four days ago (on Wednesday afternoon), prison officials had seized two cell phones and charger from an inmate, Saravanan lodged in the Vellore central prison. Prison officials suspended a head warder Kumaravel for smuggling the gadgets into the prison.
 
 Saravanan, a notorious rowdy, is said to have threatened the police inspector of Katpadi Station T Pandi who arrested the former’s wife and brother in connection with a robbery case.
 
 In April 2010, jail staff seized the mobile phones from the cell of Murugan’s wife Nalini Sriharan, undergoing life imprisonment in the Special Prison for Women in Vellore.
 
 According to section 298 of the Tamil Nadu Prison Manual, mobile phone is listed as a contraband article, attracting punishments such as hard labour, forfeiture of remission and reduction to lower class.
 
 In February 2014, the Supreme Court commuted the death sentence of Murugan, Santhan and Perarivalan on the grounds of delay in disposing their mercy pleas. Four other convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, including Murugan’s wife Nalini, Robert Payas, Jayakumar and Ravichandran have been serving life terms.
 
 In the year 2015, the Jayalalithaa government made a bid to get all the convicts released, exercising its power to remit sentences. The issue of remission is now before a three-judge bench of the Supreme Court.
 
 
