CHANDIGARH:   in the Tricity are not ruling out the possibility of a   being sparked between different groups after bouncer Amit Sharma alias Meet was shot and murdered in front of   on Monday.

  The bouncer was shot four times by the assailants when he was heading towards his car along with his mother after visiting the temple and had later died in the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) in Chandigarh.
 
 Police officials said that Meet had started off as a bouncer and later created a network of his musclemen friends who provided security to everyone in the region, from marriage palaces to film shoots. He employed bouncers in various parts of Punjab as well.
 
 When TOI spoke to some of the bouncers who had come for Meet's cremation at Manimajra on Tuesday, some of them insisted that they were not looking for revenge.However, others said that the killers will have to pay a price, leaving the cops apprehensive.
 
 Mohali SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal told TOI, “We have already taken preventive measures. We have identified people who may indulge in violence in the future and are keeping an eye on them.“
 
 Police officials in Chandigarh too are on guard. DSP Paw a n Ku m a r, i n charge of the crime branch said, “There is a possibility of gangs looking to hit back at each other in the Tric ity. We will be taking precautionary measures to ensure this doesn't happen.“
 
 Meet's brazen murder itself is being seen as a revenge killing. TOI had reported on Tuesday how dreaded gangster Vicky Gonder, who had escaped from the Nabha high security jail in November last year, could be behind the murder. He had mocked Punjab police by openly stating on Facebook on Sunday that he would soon commit a sensational crime and within 24 hours Meet was killed. At Meet's cremation, one of the bouncers said, “Meet was our brother.
 
 We have been together for the past decade. Whosoever was behind this bloodshed will have to pay a price.“ Another bouncer said they will talk to eyewitnesses of the killing and try and identify the men behind the shooting. Two teams of Panchkula police on Tuesday raided a few places in Punjab looking for the two accused who murdered 37-year old bouncer Amit Sharma aka Meet on Monday near the Shiv temple in Saketri village.
 
 Police have found   from a camera near the temple where the shooting occurred in which a white Swift car is travelling towards Kishangarh. Witnesses said two masked men in a white Swift drove around the temple while Meet was offering prayers, and when he came out, they shot him. 
 
 Police suspect that the killers took a route through Kishangarh and entered Chandigarh. Panchkula deputy commissioner of police Ashok Kumar said Meet's mother, Roopa Rani -in front of whom the bouncer was shot and killed -had given them the names of three suspects.Of them, Gagandeep Singh is in prison. The raids are being conducted at possible hideouts to find the other two, Surjit Singh and Sonu Shah.No arrests have been made in the case so far, he told TOI.The crime, and the impunity with which it took place, has rocked the sleepy village on the foothills of the Shivaliks.
 
