CHENNAI: Thanks to an intervention of the Madras high court, DMK working president and leader of the opposition M K   will now get an official copy of   recording of the February 18 events inside the   assembly, where a motion of confidence was adopted amidst ruckus created by his party. 

 The Tamil Nadu   agreed to furnish a copy of the video recording of the events, after a nudge from the Madras high court on Friday when a PIL filed by Stalin came up for further hearing.
 
 The Edappadi K Palaniswami government won the vote of confidence on February 18, amidst ruckus created by DMK legislators and the Speaker’s refusal to heed to the combined opposition’s demand for secret ballot. Challenging legality of the motion, Stalin filed the present PIL to declare it as illegal, null and void.
 
 Passing orders on the PIL, the first bench had, about two weeks ago, directed the assembly authorities to submit the video recording to the court.
 
 On Friday, however, Stalin’s senior counsel R Shanmugasundaram complained to the bench of Acting Chief Justice Huluvadi G Ramesh and Justice M Sundar that despite a specific direction from the court, the assembly secretary had not furnished a copy of the video. 
 
 Noting that the official was on extension and was loyal to the ruling party, the senior counsel said he would go to any extent to defend the ruling party. Instead of furnishing videography of the events, he had filed a lengthy counter affidavit which was full of lies, Shanmugasundaram said. He also alleged that there was a possibility of the video recording being tampered with by the assembly authorities.
 
 Denying the charges, Rakesh Trivedi, senior counsel for the assembly secretary, said there were at least 67 representatives of media organisations and there was no possibility or intention to tamper with the video.
 
 The bench then directed the secretary to furnish a copy of the video to Stalin as well and asked the latter to submit his response and rejoinder, if any, to the court so that the case could be taken up for further hearing on March 24.
 
 Another PIL-petitioner, K Ravi, who too has sought declaration of the resolution as null and void, albeit on different grounds, pointed out that his PIL was not related to events that occurred on the floor of the House. It was about the manner the MLAs reached the assembly.
 
 In this regard, Ravi said firstly, the speaker had refused to accept the court notice. Secondly, the assembly secretary’s detailed counter had nothing to do with the PIL since it was not about the events unfolded inside the assembly. Thirdly, the chief minister had not chosen to file his counter-affidavit though he had been cited as the third respondent in the PIL.
 
 To this, R Krishnamoorthy, senior counsel for chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, said he would peruse the affidavit and decide on whether or not to file a counter affidavit or to argue the case. Concurring with him, the bench said the PIL-petitioner could not compel the chief minister to file a counter or not.
 
 
