NAGPUR: Making most of her opening advantage with the whites,   gave top seed   of Russia a scare before settling for a draw in the   at Montevideo, Uruguay, on Thursday

 The 11-round championship in three age categories is being organized by the Uruguayan Chess Federation under the auspices of the Confederation of Chess for Americas (CCA) and the World Chess Federation (FIDE).
 
 The top board battle of the U-14 girls’ group between the two title holders —   ( ) Mrudul and the experienced   ( ) Bibisara — saw an exciting 50-move battle in the fifth round.
 
 For the third consecutive time with the white pieces, fourth seeded Mrudul started with the regular Kings Pawn opening move. With an Elo of 2421 points Bibisara, who has 288 more rating points than Mrudul, countered the e4 opening with a classical Sicilian defence.
 
 Within 10 moves, Mrudul made her intentions clear and started playing aggressively by taking some risky decisions. Mrudul’s attacking play with risky moves took Bibisara by surprise and the top seed was forced to play inaccurately.
 
 By the 16th move, Mrudul got a clear winning position. Excited to surprise Bibisara, the BVM, Trimurti Nagar, student, played a wrong move on her queen side.
 
 The Russian WFM exploited the position and in time pressure earned a draw from the jaws of defeat. After many ups and down for over two hours both the players signed the peace treaty in the 50th move.
 
 With this exciting top-board draw, the 13-year-old Mrudul, however slipped to the second position, collecting four points from five rounds. Mrudul, along with five others, is just half point behind joint leaders Jyothsna L and second seed Salimova Nurgyul. Both Jyothsna and Salimova posted victories in contrasting fashion to garner full point for the lead.
 
 In the sixth round that will be played after a day’s rest on Saturday, Mrudul will again play with the white pieces against yet another experienced Fide Master (FM) Salimova Nurgyul of Bulgaria on the top board
 
 
