GURUGRAM: Commuting from   to Sohna will be easier if Huda delivers on its promise to speed up construction of the road dividing sectors 66-67. 

 The completion of this road will not only reduce commuting time to Sohna but also decongest  .
 
 Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav told TOI on Saturday, “With the completion of the road dividing sectors 66-67, people coming from   will be able to directly reach Sohna bypassing congested areas such as Vatika Chowk and Badshapur village. It will also reduce the traffic load on Sohna Road and nearby areas.” 
 
 Once complete, the road will run parallel to Southern Peripheral Road ( ), starting from Sector 59 and passing through roads dividing sectors 60-61, sectors 62-63, sectors 64-65 and end at Sohna Road, via the road dividing sectors 66-67.
 
 The 2-km-long road dividing sectors 66-67 has remained incomplete in a stretch of around half-a-kilometre mainly due to 30 structures coming in the way of alignment of the road. Huda had started the land acquisition process for the given road around eight years ago. But in 2010-11, some of the land owners had challenged the acquisition in the Punjab and Haryana high court. HC had in 2016 ordered Huda to rehabilitate the land owners as per the Relocation and Rehabilitation (R&R) policy of the state government.
 
 But Yadav said of the 30 structures, four are residential houses and these are only eligible for alternative plots as per the R&R policy, “for which we will conduct a draw of lots”. “After the allotment of the alternative plots to eligible land owners, the remaining structures will be demolised at the earliest to pave the way for the completion of this important road,” he added. Under the R&R policy, alternative plots can only be allotted to owners of “constructed residential houses”.
 
 Yadav said the city traffic is at present heavily dependent on few roads mainly due to the absence of alternative routes. 
 
 “The objective is to reduce the congestion on important roads and provide commuters alternative routes,” he said.
 
 
