Chandigarh: The Times   Week, a Times of India initiative in partnership with Mumbai’s Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital, concluded here on Thursday with a roundtable conference attended by Haryana health minister Anil Vij and Chandigarh home and health secretary Anurag Aggarwal.

 NOTTO (National Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation) director Dr Vimal Bhandari and Haryana principal secretary for health Amit Jha also spoke up for the cause of organ donation. The speakers called for creating an efficient network of retrieving organs from the donors and delivering these to the recipients even in the remote areas. They observed how Punjab lagged in this retrieval and delivery and they talked about what needed to be done to save more lives.
 
 ROTTO (regional organ and tissue transplant organisation at the PGI) nodal officer Dr Vipin Kaushal said: “The expansion of infrastructure must be regular in order to facilitate the preservation of organs before these are delivered to the recipient. Efficiency must be shown at every level to carry out transplants in a good number.”
 
 Kidney transplant surgeon Dr Priyadarshi Ranjan of Mohali’s Fortis hospital said the time for transplant was crucial, as the organ can be preserved only up to a certain time. Since the private hospitals don’t have the authority to consider a patient as a potential donor, whenever any accident is reported where the injured may not live, too many formalities—including police investigation and approvals from the government hospitals—eat up this crucial time for organ retrieval.
 
 Suggesting measures to create more successful cases of organ transplant, Dr Ram Narain from Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital explained a Zonal Transplant Coordination Centre (ZTCC) model from Maharashtra, which worked in the cities of Mumbai, Pune, and Aurangabad. It divided the state into three zones for organ retrieval. The ZTCC worked in coordination with different hospitals in the respective zone to speed up the process of retrieval and delivery of the organs.
 
 Wife’s kidney saves man
 
 Chandigarh: Sunil Chopra (56) got a new lease of life three months ago when his wife donated one of her kidneys to him to revive him from a chronic ailment. Sunil remained on dialysis from January 13 to May 24, the day the doctors at Mumbai’s Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital conducted the transplant.
 
 Sunil calls his new kidney the special connection between him and his wife. His blood group didn’t match with the other people in his family who could have been potential donors. Since his wife, Shivani Chopra, has universal blood group, the doctors gave a positive signal for the transplant and Sunil got a new life. TNN
 
 
