BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh police have refused to share pictures of the ‘keys’ used by alleged   operatives in the Bhopal jail breakout of November last year with their kin, saying, “It can give an idea about the size of the lock.” 

 Counsel for the alleged SIMI men killed in the post-jailbreak ‘encounter’ have jointly filed an application before the justice S K Pandey probe commission, demanding several evidence from police, including the keys that the undertrials were said to have fashioned to open the cell locks and escape. Police have objected to the demand, say sources in the department.
 
 At Tuesday’s hearing, the jail and police department filed their affidavits, as did the family members of the deceased. The commission ordered the affidavits to be exchanged between officials and counsel for the dead undertrials.
 
 “We have received the affidavits submitted by jail officials as well as police under instructions of the commission. After going through them, we will put forward an application for the cross-examination of the evidence placed before the commission,” said advocate Sajid Ali, who represents the kin of alleged SIMI operative Mohammed Saliq. The next hearing is on March 27.
 
 In compliance with the judicial commission’s orders of January 19, 2017, police have submitted photographs of all the seizures made after the incident. If the commission feels necessary, it can seek any or all the evidence in original, say sources. 
 
 A journalist and social worker has presented himself before the commission as a respondent. The panel will decide its admissibility on March 25. 
 
 On the night of October 30 last year, eight alleged SIMI operatives managed to escape from  , killing a guard on the way. They were gunned down a few hours later in Manikhedi village on Bhopal’s outskirts. Questions were asked about the hilltop ‘encounter’ as alleged videos of it went viral, showing police shooting at men who were already dead or dying. The state government then constituted the Justice SK Pandey Commission to enquire into the incident — from jailbreak to encounter.
 
