Nagpur: Shree Sidhivinayak Publicity organized a programme of Hindi film songs “Diamonds Forever: unforgettable melodies of Kalyanji Anandji at Scientific Hall, Laxmi Nagar on Sunday. Sarang Joshi’s wonderful rendition of ‘Badi dur se aaye hai’ set the mood for the evening. Another soulful performance was tuned in by Arwind Patil with ‘Chandan sa bandan’ which he continued with ‘Jo tumko ho pasand wahi baat karenge.’ Diamonds forever presented the beautiful era of old Hindi movie songs specially composed by Kalyaniji Anandji, the perfect duo Composer of their times. Taking the lead, singers Esha Ranade, Shreya and Sarang Joshi sang a classical rendition ‘Morey ghar aaye sajanwa’ which left the audience mesmerized. Sagar Madhumatke stole the show with ‘Neeley neeley amber par’ and back to back performance with ‘Pal pal dil ke paas’ and ‘Tere chehre mai woh jaadu hai’ to which audience gave a non-stop clapping and cheering. Madhumatke also performed a combo of, ‘Zindagi ka safar,’ ‘Jeevan se bhari teri Annkhe’ and ‘O saathi re tere bina bhi kya jeena.’ Apart from solo performances some duets were also presented before the audience such as, ‘Wada Karle sajana,’ sang by Madhumatke and Ranade. ‘Kisi raah ya kisi mod pe’ sang by Patil and Shreya. Popular song of all the times,’ Bekhudi mai sanam’ was decorated with a beautiful duet delivered by Joshi and Ranade. With ‘Har kisi ko nahi milta, yaha pyar zindagi mai,’ Joshi and Shreya ignited the romantic flame of the evening. People was present in large amount for the programme.  On the lines of friendship, ‘Yaari hai imaan mera yaar meri zindagi,’ Patil sang in his soulful voice. ‘Laila mai laila’ and ‘Yeh mera dil pyar ka deewana’ sang by Shreya radiated an energetic feel through the crowd.  ‘Govinda ala re’ a playful composition of Kalyanji Anandji created an aura of Krishna-Janmasthami serenaded by Joshi had the crowd applauding and cheering once again. ‘Khayi ke paan banaras wala,’ the popular song from Don (starred by Amitabh Bachahan) presented by Joshi, dotted on by the audience received a huge round of applause. On the stage, apart from singers; they had Raja Rathod Robin on Keyboard, Prakash Chavhan on lead guitar, Pranjal Gazula on bass guitar, Nandu Gohane on Octopad, Prashant Nagmote on Tabla and Pankaj Yadav on Dholak. The programme was hosted by Nasir Khan. The event concluded with ‘Mere desh ki dharti,’ a song from the movie Upkar rendered by vocalists.  (Reporting by Mrunalini Kohat)