NEW  : By May, if you are flagged down by the   police and are short of cash, you   offer to pay the fine through e-wallets or swipe your card on the e-challan machine. 

 Planning to go  , the traffic police is also working on a system to make payments through netbanking possible on its website, which will be upgraded to implement the project. Though officers admit that there were glitches with swiping machines due to upgradation of the system, efforts are being made to transform all 2G-equipped e-challan machines into 4G-equipped ones for easy processing of payments. 
 
 For the time being, challans can be paid at traffic courts as well. However, to avail of this option, the driver will have to carry all valid documents of the vehicle.
 
 Senior officers said they were still in the trial phase of installing the e-wallet systems and were trying it out at some circles. If successful, it would be introduced across all 52 traffic circles in the city. “We are trying to digitise the   payment system and will introduce them soon,” said Ajay Kashyap, special commissioner, traffic. The trial is likely to be over in a month, said sources. 
 
 Officers said the Union home ministry was still considering some of the proposals to make payments possible through the Delhi Traffic Police website. If the ministry clears the project, a violator will have to enter the notice number and the vehicle registration number to make the payment. After the payment is made, a receipt will be generated. Officers said the online facility won’t be available for on-the-spot challans.
 
 The traffic police issues over 3,000 challans and notices every day. Once the e-payment system is introduced, cops won’t have to stop violators and can instead send notices or challans to registered addresses. This will ensure easy flow of traffic. 
 
 Common violations for which notices are sent by post include driving without wearing seat belts, talking on the phone while driving, riding two-wheelers without wearing helmets, jumping traffic lights and driving in non-designated lanes. 
 
 
