MEERUT: Despite plans being in place to cut a birthday cake in all assembly constituencies and telecast Mayawati’s address from Lucknow on LCD screens at all venues on the occasion of the   supremo’s birthday on Sunday, the arrangements had to be cancelled due to the model code of conduct being in place. In the past, her birthday bash has been a big occasion for the party workers. After month-long donation campaigns, party and leaders would hand her money bags and other valuables as gifts. But this year, all efforts were made to avoid controversies.
 
  “We are a disciplined party and we could have not gone against the model code of conduct to celebrate  . There were plans to telecast her speech from Lucknow on LCD screens in each assembly constituency, but the EC did not give us permission for this, so the plan had to be cancelled. This year, we were instructed to have low-key celebrations and we followed the directions seriously,” said Pankaj Jolly, BSP candidate for Meerut (city).
  
  Party leaders had earlier divulged to TOI that the plan was to celebrate Mayawati’s birthday in all assembly seats and not to let demonetisation cast a cloud on the celebrations. Each year, the birthday of the BSP supremo is celebrated at a specific venue in each district but this year all constituencies were to be covered. Party members had said that this was being done for the convenience of UP residents who had been hit by demonetisation.
  
  “We were also given small books that included the speech Mayawati gave on   last year. The books had to be distributed among city residents as gifts from her but the plan was dropped after the EC denied permission,” said Ram Kumar Asnavde, Meerut general secretary of the party.
  
  Shahid Akhlaq, ex-mayor and BSP MP from Meerut constituency attended celebrations at three venues. Akhlaq told TOI, “All of us should remember that during SP rule, the state saw so many riots but during BSP rule, not a single communal incident was reported. Keeping this in mind, all of us have pledged to vote for BSP and nothing can be a better gift than this for her birthday.”
  
  While most of the constituencies even skipped cutting a cake, others cut small cakes at token celebrations. While a small 6 Kg cake was cut at Sardhana constituency, Kithore constituency ensured not to leave any stone unturned and celebrated the birthday with a 61 kg cake, one kg for each of her years.
