KOLKATA: Bengal CM   on Monday sought to hit the   where it would hurt the most — its foreign policy that had led to “deteriorating” relations with eastern-front neighbours like China, Nepal and Bangladesh and its failure to secure the India-Bangladesh border — and called her state the “biggest sufferer” for these failures.

 Trinamool MPs in Parliament gave a notice under Rule 267 in Rajya Sabha to discuss the India-China border stand-off on a priority basis on Tuesday as their leader dished out some bitter home truths on developments along the India-China border. “Nearly 400 schools have mushroomed around   near Darjeeling, where the Chinese language is being taught. Who allowed that to happen?” the CM asked in the assembly after casting her vote in favour of opposition presidential candidate Meira Kumar.
 
 She also pointed fingers at BSF, which is on duty along the India-Bangladesh border. “Jamaatis, who are also fighting  , were allowed to enter through Satkhira to incite communal violence through videos. People here believe in harmony and we thwarted their efforts. But the question remains: who allowed them to enter?” Banerjee asked, accusing central agencies of colluding with VHP.
 
 Earlier, in a closed-door meet with party MPs, Banerjee gave shape to her party’s — and the opposition’s — plans for the monsoon session of Parliament. “We will play an aggressive role in Parliament,” she said.
 
 Her taking on the BJP government on foreign affairs, a topic that CMs do not usually get into, is being seen as an attempt to give a final push to the opposition strategy of cornering the BJP government in Parliament. Banerjee’s aggression may also be in anticipation of a BJP strategy to hammer the Trinam-ool sail for its government’s failure to contain the trouble in the Hills and the communal flare-up in Basirhat. 
 
 A delegation of three BJP MPs from Delhi came down to Bengal last week, which Trinamool Congress believes is a precursor to making Basirhat an issue in Parliament.
 
 “They will orchestrate riots and states will have to bear the brunt? This cannot continue. We will keep fighting like tigers. They can keep indulging in the politics of vindictiveness. We are ready to go to jail. We will not bow our heads,”   Banerjee said.
 
 “Bengal is the worst sufferer. We are victims of circumstance. Bengal is bordered by Bhutan, Nepal and Bangladesh. We want good relations with Bangladesh,” Banerjee said. “If China browbeats India on Sikkim, there will be an impact on Darjeeling as it is adjacent, the Siliguri corridor being a chicken’s neck. The centre has ruined ties with Bangladesh, Nepal and China as well as Bhutan,” the Trinamool supremo said.
 
 “We want cordial relations with Bangladesh. I have communicated this to the ministry of external affairs. So why is a BJP affiliate burning Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina’s effigies here? Why was it allowed? How is VHP giving arms training to children in the name of Durga Vahini? Parallel governments are being run in the name of gau rakshaks and vahinis,” the   CM said, asking: “Where is the NIA, the RAW, the NSA and intelligence agencies? Why are borders kept open? What are the SSB and the IB doing here? How are people belonging to the Jamaat being allowed inside?”
 
 “I have videos. Firearms training is being given in Assam, even in Jammu. Is this the action of a government? Or are they running a parallel government?” she added.
 
 
