New Delhi:   is making a big push into large appliances, which could soon help it become one of the largest   of   in the country.

 Out of the 41 warehouses that Amazon operates across the country, nine have been built over the last eight months only to handle bulky items, including TVs, refrigerators and washing machines.
 
 Such is the growing clout of the online retail giant — Amazon claimed it sold around half of the total number of TVs sold in a day in the country, on day one of its shopping festival (around 40,000 TVs are sold in a day, according to Consumer Electronics and Appliances Manufacturers’ Association, or CEAMA) — that it is getting large manufacturers including, Voltas, LG,   and Hitachi to tweak products according to its specifications. 
 
 “For instance, after talking to customers, we realised five-star ACs are in huge demand. But they are expensive,” Manish Tiwary, VP (category management) at   told TOI. “Customers also said that they could do without remotes. So, we shared this insight with AC brands and they developed remote-less ACs at lower prices.”
 
 Amazon said it was the biggest retailer for many AC brands this season and AC maker Voltas sold as many ACs over four days of the Amazon shopping festival than it sold in the entire month of May last year. Apart from just pushing sales, Amazon’s ancillary services such as Prime Video and Kindle are helping it roll out integrated offerings in categories such as TVs and smartphones. The move is expected to help it acquire new customers, as it charges subscription fees for its memberships.
 
 To beef up its sales of large appliances, Amazon has also rolled out its Home Services that helps customers install products in the absence of support from manufacturers. “Many appliance brands that sell mostly online may not have the infrastructure to service customers in smaller towns,” said Tiwary. “That’s where we step in. You can also demand separate delivery and installation times, according to your convenience.”
 
 During the four-day sale that concluded on Sunday, Amazon said it sold more washing machines than it sold in Diwali. Sales of large appliances on its platform grew 400% year-on-year, while the industry growth for the month of March and April has been 40% year-on-year, the online retailer said.
 
 
