KOCHI: There has been a 100% increase in the monthly average of   in the first quarter of the year in the city, show statistics.   (DCRB) data shows a disturbing trend in the city. 

 As per the data, the city has already logged   till March 31 compared to the total number of cases in 2016, which were 62. When the average number of cases every month in the past year was 5 cases, the average rate of logging rape is 10 in the first quarter of the year. In 2015, 51 cases were lodged in the year on an average of 4 cases per year. 
 
 The year before, 2014 also saw a similar trend with the monthly average being 5 with a total of 63 cases registered. Senior police officers, however, urge citizens not to panic. “There are two main reasons for the spike in cases. One is cases getting promptly registered, second is an increase in   like   leading to such abuses. 
 
 A strict direction is being given to register every incident reported and no tolerance is shown in this regard,” said Kochi DCP Yathish Chandra. Parvathi T, psychologist and social activist said that earlier many cases were let go by the police after a warning. 
 
 “Amendments to the law had forced them to lodge more cases. Also, there is definitely more cases getting reported due to the increased legal awareness among women. Women are not ready to suffer without questioning anymore,” said Parvathi. According to senior officers, prevention is the department’s motto. 
 
 “It is true that there is a high rate in cases getting recorded. While we attribute it to stringent law enforcement, changes in the law is also a major factor. There is a likelihood of more such cases getting registered as awareness and strength of the law have received a boost. However, we are leaving no stone unturned to avoid such incidents in the future. 
 
 Patrolling has been strengthened in public spaces. Night patrolling are being intensified as well,” said a senior police officer. “Community policing has a long way to go and the combined night patrolling with the coperation of residents’ associations is a start. Public should come forward with any doubts concerning women safety to the nearest police stations,” said Ernakulam assistant commissioner, K Laljy adding that the mass patrolling through towns in the city by residents is helping law and order to curb nocturnal crimes.
 
