PUNE: The city will finally receive   twice a day. 

 A decision to this effect was taken on Tuesday during a meeting of the  , which was headed by district  . It was also decided to draw additional water from the dams to ensure better supply. The new schedule will begin in a few of days.
 
 The decision, pending for almost two months, was made days ahead of the impending announcement of the municipal elections. 
 
 Bapat said that the decision was taken considering the city’s daily water requirement of 1,350 million litres a day (MLD), and that Khadakwasla, Panshet, Temghar and Varasgaon dams have enough an adequate stock of water. 
 
 “We reviewed the water stock in the dams, which is much better when compared to last year. The city will receive about 100-125 MLD of additional water daily, which will help the civic body to start water supply twice a day,” Bapat said on Tuesday.
 
 Bapat said the irrigation department, through various measures, was able to save more water in the dams in the last few days, and that these steps will continue. 
 
 He said about 0.50 thousand million cubic feet (TMC) of water will be saved during rabi rotations — about 7.20 TMC will be released during two rotations. If required, supply will be curtailed. Also, at least 2 TMC of treated water will be released for agriculture through the Mundhwa jackwell. 
 
 The canal committee meeting was to be held in October but was postponed citing the election code of conduct for municipal council polls. The delay in calling the meeting had drawn criticism from the ruling Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), mayor Prashant Jagtap and civic organizations who were none too happy about releasing water for rabi crops without calling a meeting.
 
 Tuesday’s meeting was held in Mumbai. However, no one from PMC, including the mayor, was in attendance. Bapat said that he had invited everyone for the meeting. 
 
 Last year in August, the city’s started getting water once a day, instead of every other day, after all four dams were filled to capacity following heavy rains; the supply was increased by around 350 MLD per day. However, the city was still getting only 850 MLD a day. 
 
