PATNA: Two   died due to suffocation while cleaning an underground sewer near the Income Tax roundabout in Patna on Wednesday morning. A fire services worker,  , lost consciousness during the rescue operation to pull out the bodies.

 While the death of Jitendra Paswan (32) and Dipu Kumar Choudhary (25) raised the question whether the   (PMC) is following the standard operating procedures (SOP) in getting sewers cleaned, PMC commissioner Abhsihek Singh ordered a probe into the incident.
 
 “Additional commissioner (sanitation) Vinay Kumar Mandal has been assigned the probe. He will submit his report within 72 hours,” Singh said and also announced an interim relief of Rs 1 lakh and a job each each to the kin of the deceased. 
 
 “Other benefits as admissible will be announced for the bereaved family later after the approval of the   as its model code of conduct is in force in view of the upcoming civic body elections in the state,” Singh said. 
 
 Asked about the SOP, sources said the lid of the chamber has to be opened a day before or at least six hours before workers go inside. This is done so that sufficient oxygen is retained inside and harmful gases go out.
 
 The availability of oxygen is then checked by burning a matchstick. Also, workers going inside are to be tied with safety belts or at least ropes so that they can be pulled out in case of emergency.
 
 Paswan and Choudhary, it is alleged, had not been tied with any safety belt or rope. The chamber’s lid was also not removed before hand, it is alleged.
 
 PMC Employees’ Union coordination committee convenor   said the union had been demanding supply of gas mask, gum boot, hand gloves and proper uniform to sanitary workers for the last ten years, but to no avail. He demanded Rs 20 lakh as compensation and a job to the kin of the deceased. “If our demands are not met, we will go on an indefinite strike from May 15,” he threatened.
 
 According to another employees’ union member Nand Kumar Das, the underground chambers in the city are at least 20 to 25 feet deep. “Water suddenly gushes in once the garbage and slurry are removed, which can even lead to drowning,” he said and added though only trained workers could execute such a risky task, the PMC would assign the work even to sweepers.
 
 The irate union members also wondered why the PMC was not using the four jetting machines it bought in December 2015 for Rs 1 crore each to clean the sewers. “The machines are designed to suck the slurry. Why are humans being sent inside the chambers in this era of technological advancement?” asked PMC Employees’ Union head Chandra Prakash Singh.
 
 However, the PMC commissioner explained the jetting machines could be used only in 6ft-deep sewers. For deeper sewers, super sucker machines are needed, he said.
 
 “Super sucker machines cannot move in narrow lanes. Also, these machines are capable of sucking only slurry whereas people in Patna throw all sorts of waste inside the drains,” said Singh.
 
