PUNE: The   conman has struck again after a two-month lull. This time, he posed as a policeman to target an employee of a  . 

 Under the pretext of seeking a Rs 2,000 note in exchange for Rs 100 notes, the conman took away Rs 31,500 from the bundle of notes in Bopkhel on Thursday morning.
 
 Police said the conman has cheated many people since November, including elderly shopowners and women cashiers. His identity remains a mystery as he commits these crimes wearing a black helmet, which saves him from being identified on CCTV cameras. 
 
 On Thursday morning,   (38), an employee of the milk agency, was delivering milk in a van with his driver. Around 9am, Mote reached Ganeshnagar in Dighi. “While the van driver was removing the milk cans, a biker wearing a helmet stopped near Mote and told him that he needed a Rs 2,000 note in exchange for Rs 100 notes,” Dighi police sub-inspector R P Kamble said.
 
 Kamble said Mote told him that he did not have Rs 2,000 and requested to ask someone else. “Mote then went to a house to deliver milk. The woman in the house paid her monthly bill,” Kamble said. 
 
 The man, who had followed Mote till the woman’s house, noticed him collecting the cash. “He told Mote that he was a policeman and again asked for the note,” Kamble said. Mote gave him a Rs 2,000 note. But, the suspect told him that he needed another note. 
 
 “Mote handed him a bundle of the notes of different denominations to select the note. The woman cautioned Mote from handing over the cash to an unknown person. Mote told her the person is a policeman,” Kamble said.
 
 The person gave back Mote his bundle after picking a note. However, he again took the bundle from Mote and pretended to select some other note. It is suspected that he managed to pull out a sizeable number of notes this time. He returned the bundle once again and left on his motorcycle. “Mote too left for another delivery. However, he grew suspicious later and counted the notes in the bundle only to find that Rs 31,500 was missing,” Kamble said.
 
 In his complaint, Mote said the suspect was wearing a blue shirt and black trousers.
 
 Asked if the suspect was the same person involved in earlier cases in the city, a senior officer from the crime branch told TOI, “He has resurfaced after two months. We have launched a drive to trace him.”
 
