KOLKATA: The US-returned software engineer, who spent a very private six months with the putrefying corpses of his sister and two family dogs before they were discovered, ended his life at a Watgunge flat on Tuesday, taking forever with himself the secrets of what exactly happened from 2014-end till mid-2015 inside a   in south Kolkata's  .

 Partha De's death came in an eerily similar fashion to his dad's -they both locked themselves up in the bathroom before setting themselves on fire. Only, the setting was different. Partha's father, Arabinda, died in their posh south Kolkata address; Partha in an upmarket apartment complex. It was Arabinda's suicide that had led police to discover Partha's sister Debjani's corpse and the skeletons of two dogs and triggered huge curiosity over what had transpired inside the house. Partha's death closes the chapter with most of the ques tions still unanswered.
 
 Partha had been living in the 11th floor apartment of the upscale Merlin Riverview right next to the Watgunge police station for a year. He lived alone in the flat that he bought after moving out of the Missionaries of Charity. He had a caregiver who would visit dai ly for a few hours.
 
 When Partha left Pavlov Institute in September 2015, doctors said he was fully cured of schizophrenia. They now fear he may have stopped his medication that ultimately pushed him over the edge.
 
 Police said prima facie evidence shows Partha may have committed suicide. A bottle of petrol and a matchbox was found beside his body when they forced open the bathroom door. Partha's caregiver, Pradip Sarkar, a resident of Patuli, told police Partha sent him to Jadavpur to run an errand around 9.45am on Tuesday.“When I returned, the door was ajar. I could not find him inside.The bathroom door was shut. He did not respond despite knocking repeatedly. Then I called for help from the lobby. When our joint effort failed, I called Father Rodney and the former house owner, D J Bulsa ra. Father then called the cops,“ Sarkar said. The cops pried open the door by 12.20pm.
 
 Apparently the bathroom door was not locked but De's body had blocked it. The facility manager of the complex, Laxman Ghosh, said, “When we pushed the bathroom door slowly, it opened slightly. It was then the police realized that De's body was blocking it. Through the gap I could see that his chest was completely charred and there were burns on his face as well.“
 
 The apartment seemed like a typical bachelor's pad with books, CDs and clothes casually strewn around. There was a laptop on the bed. Neighbours said they last saw De drive out in his Esteem the previous morning. He had left around 10am on Monday and returned around 2.45pm. Oddly, he had been skipping the 5.30am walk for a week.
 
 “The bathroom door was blocked. We found unused pet rol in a one-litre bottle next to his body. His face and torso was burnt till the knee. There were black marks in his nostrils and teeth. There were no marks of fi re anywhere else apart from the bathroom. Additionally, there were no injuries on his body. All these point to suicide,“ said an investigator.
 
 Top Lalbazar officers tho ugh said they would arrive at a conclusion only after a post mortem and a visit by the forensic team to the flat on Wednes day. “We will watch CCTV footage and even scan call re cord details of Partha and a couple of others before we can say something conclusive,“ said an officer.
 
 Bulsara, the previous owner of Flat 11E, said officials from the Missionaries of Charity had liasoned on Partha's behalf when the sale happened. Partha had moved into the 1,093 sq feet apartment last February and the flat was recently registered in his name. “He paid me in two installments by cheque,“ said Bulsara who owns another flat in the housing complex.
 
