PANAJI: Members of a   team have lost hopes of making a once in a lifetime trip to the US despite an avalanche of support since being denied visas.

 Tibet women’s football team was denied visas by the US to take part in the Dr Pepper Dallas Cup because, they had “no good reason” to visit the country, according to executive director and former chief coach Cassie Childers, a US citizen.
 
 Since then, several have shown their support to Tibet Women’s Football. It includes US politicians, ordinary citizens and, more importantly, former US national team  , although Childers herself doesn’t hold much hope.
 
 “The amount of support has been incredible. I have been contacted by almost every major news outlet in the world. We received a huge influx of donations. I received a call from Julie Foudy and many US politicians are trying to help but I don’t have much hope,” Childers told TOI at a beach shack in  , where she is currently based for a couple of days.
 
 The 20-member squad has one Indian citizen, four from Nepal and the rest with  
 
  Sixteen of them had applied for visas with the   in New Delhi, while others applied in Kathmandu. The team spent approximately $5,000 on visa fees.
 
 “To be honest, it’s more disappointing for me than it was for the team. I am an American citizen and it was very shocking to see how my country treated this team and didn’t even give them any consideration for the visas. The players have been through a lot and are very resilient; when I was down, they were the ones who pepped me up and said, ‘let’s not give up’,” said Childers, who formed Tibet Women’s Football in 2011 and was the chief coach for several years.
 
 Despite the US setback, the Tibetan footballers will continue their training, possibly for another international assignment soon. They will now gather in Dehradun on March 15 and undergo a three-week training camp, preparing for alternative destinations where they would feel welcome.
 
 “Two years ago we were invited to play in a tournament in Germany called Discover Football. We fielded a team and had no problems getting visas. Every player returned to India after the tournament,” said Childers.
 
