MUMBAI: Thousands of commuters, mainly in suburbs, were left in the lurch during the peak hours on Friday as nearly 70% of Ola and 40-50% of   went on a day-long strike. They had to either pay double the fares due to surge pricing or depend on autorickshaws and kaali-peeli taxis. 

 Sources in the aggregator firms alleged that many drivers were threatened by protesters Friday morning, resulting in a majority of them going off roads out of fear. Five protesters were detained by police for forcing some cab drivers to stop their services. Police said that around 1.30 pm, the men stopped three cabs at Satamwadi junction of  , and took away their mobile devices. The five men were taken to  . 
 
 Meanwhile, Raju Patil of the   said the unrest will continue till their demands are not met. After the strike, first of its kind in Mumbai, the aggregator cab drivers have threatened to strike work again and hold a dharna at Azad Maidan on March 14, over their demands— basically increase in daily incentives and better earnings. They have threatened to go on indefinite strike from March 21.
 
 The drivers' union took out two big morchas —one to the Ola office at Chakala in Andheri East in the morning and another to Uber office in Kurla West in the afternoon. Both the offices were cordoned with heavy police presence to prevent any law and order problem.
 
 A Uber spokesperson said, “We regret the disruption caused to our rider and driver community by a small group of individuals. We remain committed to serving the city, ensuring driver partners can continue to access a stable income, while giving riders a convenient, reliable option to get around Mumbai.” Ola did not issue any statement on Friday. A source from an aggregator firm said, “We have videos to show that drivers were stopped, issued threats by mobs and forced to logout from the aggregator platform.” 
 
 During the strike, passengers were at the mercy of kaali-peeli taxis as refusals were rampant. Those who were able to find a cab in the aggregator mobile apps, met with huge fares. “A ride that would cost you Rs 500-Rs 600 on a normal day was available for up to Rs 1,200-Rs 1,400,” a commuter said. 
 
