AHMEDABAD: Five city traffic constables were exonerated from the charge of taking a bribe of Rs 10 after a 22-year legal battle.

 The incident took place in June 1994 when the five   in Ranip were caught by the   (ACB) allegedly for accepting a bribe of Rs 10. They were later convicted and sentenced to two-year imprisonment by a special court. 
 
 While acquitting the cops   stated that the ACB was not able to prove its case and that the witnesses too were confused on the identity of the accused persons.
 
 According to the case details, KM Rathod a police inspector who was then posted in ACB had got a tip-off that   were taking bribe from traffic violators. Without recording this intelligence input in the police station diary, Rathod took along a raiding party, a loading rickshaw driver as a decoy and a witness. In their first encounter with traffic cops the auto driver paid Rs 10 as bribe and ACB sleuths nabbed the policemen – Ratnabhai Solanki, Jagdishchandra Jadav, Vishnubhai Patel, Nandubhai Patel and Babubhai Patel - when they were accepting money. They were booked for corruption.
 
 After being convicted by the trial court all five police officials moved the HC challenging the conviction. After hearing the case, Justice RP Dholaria acquitted them with observation that there was lack of uniformity in the versions of the rickshaw driver and the witness and that they were confusing the identity of the accused persons. The prosecution too failed to link the accused with the bribery case.
 
 The HC also took notice of the manner in which the trap was laid and investigation was conducted. Rathod was pulled up for managing the affair - from arranging the trap till the filing of chargesheet. “This course of action on Rathod’s part goes against the basic tenets of criminal jurisprudence and fair investigation. The credibility of prosecution’s case becomes suspicious on this count,” the HC observed.
 
 Advocate Bhavini Jani, who represented the policemen, said that all the constables were drawing only 75% amount of their salary and pension in case of retirement since 1994. With this acquittal, they will now get the remaining 25% amount deducted till date.
 
