MADURAI: A total of 15,143 people were issued with notices in the past one month for failing to remove prosopis juliflora (seemai karuvelam) trees from their lands, of which 2,523 had come forward to clear their lands. Many of those who did not adhere to the Madurai district administration’s were were imposed with fines and so far Rs 9.55 lakh has been collected from them. About 5,652 hectares of land in Madurai have been cleared of the invasive species, officials said.

 On Saturday, collector,   inspected the removal of the plants in vacant plots near the   bus stand. Speaking at the spot, he said, the district has an area of 3,25,000 hectares, of which 1,25,000 hectares are cultivable. Land coming under the forest department in the district is 25,000 hectares and buildings are spread over 50,000 hectares. The juliflora plants have occupied most of the remaining 1,95,000 hectares, of which 80% falls under private lands and 20% on government lands.
 
 Fifty earthmovers are being used to remove the plants in Madurai district. The notices were issued to people living in the corporation, three municipalities, nine town panchayats and 420 panchayats in the district of which only 2,523 have responded positively. Fines are being collected from those who haven’t responded, the collector said.
 
 If the lands are not cleared by the owners, it would be cleared by the authorities and two times the cost of removal would be collected as fine. Additionally, owners who failed to remove the plants would be booked under Section 133 of CrPC and legal action would be initiated against them, he added.
 
 The high court had ordered the removal of juliflora trees, as it is said to deplete groundwater through its deep roots even in drought conditions and also cause other harmful effects. Many petitions seeking the removal of the invasive plant species were collectively heard and the Madurai bench of the Madras high court set a deadline for January this year which was extended later to enable the district administrations to get rid of the plants.
 
 All district administrations had since then intensified steps for the removal of these trees. Corporation commissioner Sandeep Nanduri, RDO  , assistant commissioner Palanisamy among others were present.
 
 
