JAIPUR: With rising incidents of attacks on   in Rajasthan, the   has launched a   about the safety needs of the Kashmiri students living in  . 

 The cops have prepared a list of number of Kashmiri students studying in different educational institutions in the Pink City and asked students to quickly contact cops in hour of crisis.
 
 The Jaipur police commissionerate’s drive comes in the wake of clash between Kashmiri students and localities in Chittorgarh district last month, and subsequent reports of a Kashmiri research scholar fleeing his college in Pilani after being threatened by his classmates. 
 
 Additional commissioner of police (First) Prafulla Kumar told TOI that station house officers (SHOs) were directed to visit all educational institutes in their areas to find out how many students from Kashmir are staying in hostels or in PG accommodations.
 
 “There are about 800 students studying in the city’s 38 colleges, the SHOs are directly in touch with educational institutes. These SHOs will provide security cover to college campuses in events of ripple effects of some major national issue,” Kumar said. 
 
 Last month tension had prevailed in Chittorgarh district after a group of locals clashed with a few Kashmiri students of a private university after they were allegedly called "stone-pelters" and taunted over the video of a CRPF jawan being heckled in Budgam. The issue led to the union Home Minister Rajnath Singh directing the states to ensure the safety of Kashmiri students. 
 
 To avoid the repeat of Chittorgarh like situation, the SHOs have been instructed to regularly visit college campuses, hostels and speak to students and college administration about the safety issues. “The idea is to sensitize the SHOs about Kashmiri students so that any national issues doesn’t create untoward problem in our city,” additional CP told TOI. 
 
 The Rajasthan police headquarters (PHQ) had also issued a list of ‘necessary directions to district SPs” soon after a Kashmiri research left his campus following threats messages written over his T-shirt. “We have asked the SHOs to quickly attend to the distress calls of the Kashmiri students, if they are being harassed at market place, then a police party should quickly arrive at the spot,” a senior official of Rajasthan police told TOI.
 
 
