NAGPUR: Suraj  , accused in   murder case and now in custody of Dhantoli police, is likely to return to   on September 22 as the seven-day permission of the home department is set to end.

 The court had remanded Kotnake in police custody till September 25.
 
 Dhantoli police, which may opt for conducting narco and other lie-detecting tests on Kotnake, are now in a fix as the government’s permission to retain the accused is ending two days before termination of the court’s remand period.
 
 Kotnake, serving life sentence for murdering a kin, was arrested on September 15 after Dhantoli police got permission to take him into custody from the central jail for murdering co-inmate Pugaliya on September 11 at the bathroom of barrack no. five in ‘chhoti gol’. Pugaliya too was serving a triple life sentence for kidnapping and murdering eight-year-old Kush Katariya on October 11, 2011.
 
 PI Seema Mendhare, senior PI at Dhantoli police station, said the cops would try to seek further extension of the government’s permission as per the investigation’s requirement. “Though we will have two more days as per the court order, Kotnake would be sent back to jail as the government’s deadline would get over sooner,” she said.
 
 “Depending on the requirement, further remand would be procured through government’s permission and court order. As of now, it is yet to be decided,” she said.
 
 Sources in the jail said Kotnake has been so far claiming to have killed Pugaliya on the spur of the moment as their rivalry had snowballed over the last few days. The cops are yet to completely trust Kotnake’s version. “There is a possibility that narco test will be performed on him after completing formalities of seeking his approval and court’s sanction just to rule out that Kotnake is not hiding some crucial information and misleading the investigation,” said a police source.
 
 Pugaliya’s family has raised an objection against jail administration that the prison’s alarm had not gone off even after   was found in an injured condition in the barrack’s bathroom. “We believe that the jail authorities are trying to hide something from us and concealing some crucial information,” said Ayush’s elder brother Pravin.
 
 
