HUBBALLI: Due to space constraint, many families are unable to   in their house. Many families are also using the toilets as storeroom. Now,   (VRDS), a non-profit organization, has come up with the idea of smart toilets to encourage people in rural areas of Haveri district to make good use of toilets.

 Speaking to TOI, Vijaya Raghava K, president, VRDS, said that there is a need to create awareness on the benefits need of toilets in households. “In the current scenario, many people in the rural areas not willing to either construct toilets or use them,” he said.
 
 SD Baligar, executive director, VRDS, informed that the concept of smart toilets is designed and developed by   in Tamil Nadu and technologically funded by  , Hubballi. “It has been popularized in various states. This toilet has bathroom attached and is a complete solution for sanitation and hygiene. It attends to all hygienic needs like the disposal of human faeces into ecofriendly pits without contaminating waterbodies or spreading diseases. The presence of soap in the bathroom facilitates handwashing after defecating and thereby avoiding faecal oral transmission through unwashed hands,” he explained.
 
 He further said: “We provide loan to beneficiaries and link their subsidy to the loan. As of now, 200 toilets have been constructed in Ranebennur, Byadagi, Hirekerur and Hangal taluks. We plan to complete 500 smart toilets by the end of this financial year.”
 
 Sampathraj, advocacy manager, Gramalaya, Tiruchirapalli, explained more about smart toilets. “Incinerator, a small attachment to the toilet, gives an ultimate safe solution for the disposal of soiled napkins during menstrual days of women. Hazardous napkins thrown in the open takes a long time to decompose. The incinerator, a manually operated attachment in the toilet, gives proper solution for the safe disposal of soiled napkins allowing no one else than the user to know,” he explained.
 
 “Earlier, we were bathing outside at a small temporary hut. Now, we feel proud after having secured and smart toilets. The VRDS provided loan and imparted training to us,” said Laxamavva Nagappa Bullammanvar, a daily wage worker from Budapanahalli village.
 
