Nagpur: The Maharashtra government is thinking of making enrolment in the voters list mandatory for students and to encourage them to exercise their franchise. In a letter to all universities, government has asked them to insert a query in admission form “whether the students have enrolled their name in the voter’s list”. Registrars of all universities have been asked to tell all affiliated colleges that this question is mandatory in admission/application forms. A letter by senior secretary from State Higher and Technical Education Department, Satish Mali, has sought opinion from the registrars whether to make enrolment in voters list mandatory for students. He stated the move was aimed at attracting more youths to the election process and even State Election Commission (CEC) was backing it. “India’s is world’s largest democracy and also has a young population with lakhs of students in various universities and colleges. A majority of them attain 18 years of age at the threshold of taking admissions to colleges,” Mali said. He asked the universities to send specimen forms to higher education department with inclusion of new query. He also instructed the universities and colleges to inform about problems faced by the foreigners and other states’ students in this regard and find a solution.  Nagpur University registrar Puran Meshram confirmed they had received the letter and were doing as directed. “We have issued a letter to principals, secretaries and chairmen of all affiliated and conducted colleges to insert the condition in application/admissions forms as directed by the government. These forms would be distributed in the next couple of months when the admission season would commence. The students need to inform whether they had their name in voters list, if they had crossed 18 years of age,” he told TOI. NU has over four lakh students in about 600 affiliated colleges and its own teaching departments.  A former MBA student Neeraj Dontulwar hailed the government’s move stating it should also make voting compulsory for all students. “It is very unfortunate that hardly half the voters turn up to cast their votes during elections. This lead to unqualified candidates and those with criminal backgrounds winning many times. Making voting compulsory would help right kind of candidates getting elected,” he said.