NAGPUR: After  , city’s Islamic organization   of Satranjipura has asked   to avoid “splurging on matka party (singing paeans to groom), playing musical band, video shooting and crackers during  .

 On December 26, TOI had reported about the organization’s anti-kite flying campaign to dissuade Muslim youths from the ‘vice’. As part of the campaign, the organization, that draws its ideology from Barelvi movement, had pasted posters outside several masjids across the city beside spreading the message through discourses.
 
 In the latest move, the organization has citied Holy Quran’s verse 31 of Chapter 7 Al-Araf. “Allah fizool karchnewalo ko pasand ni karta (God doesn’t like people who splurge),” reads the poster issued by the organization.
 
 “Quran Shareef and Hadith both forbid splurging on useless activities. Making images is also a sin. Playing music, bursting crackers, matka party are all waste of money,” president of the organization Maulana Ateeque-ur-Rehman told TOI.
 
 Rehman added that the organization has been holding seminars and sermons every Sundays in nearby towns like Warora, Walsa, Chhindwara and Seoni to promote austerity in marriages.
 
 “Our mission is to make people realize that wealth is God’s gift and should be used wisely. Instead of splurging on marriages, the money can be put to better use like education, treatment of poor and welfare of economically backward,” Rehman added.
 
 Quranic scholar Abdul Gafoor Parekh said, “In my view, this should be appreciated by everyone.”
 
 Former director of Archeological Survey of India, GS Khawaja, said, “In Islam, all such acts which distract one from obligatory duties and servitudes like namaz and roza are illicit and forbidden. If such an appeal has been made by the followers of Maulana Ahmed Raza, then I support the cause.”
 
 Khawaja added that video shooting during marriages too should be avoided as it may give rise to obscenity. He said, “According to social anthropology, ancestor worship began because of images. By banning video shooting or photography, you can prevent idol worship which is forbidden in Islam.”
 
 Abdul Ahad, director of Central India College of Business Management and Studies, said, “Everyone should avoid spending lavishly on weddings, which, I feel, has become a norm now. Even the Prophet (Peace be upon him) had advised against spending on such wasteful activities.”
 
 However, a Muslim professor said celebrations are good so far as they provide jobs. He, however, cautioned that spending on weddings must necessarily be done from surplus cash.
 
 “When money is spent on celebrations, it generates income and employment for others. To that extent, it is a good thing. After all, organizing and executing celebrations has become an industry which employs lakhs of people. This, however, becomes a problem when people spend money just because they feel the need to keep up with the social trend even when they can ill-afford. People waste their life savings on ostentation which they can very easily do without,” she said.
 
 
