BAREILLY: Sources in Ghaziabad crime branch told TOI that the ongoing investigation in the   that claimed four lives has revealed that the case pursuer who submitted the affidavit on behalf of the   had "arranged a driver to surrender in the court". 

  Raj Kumar is the case pursuer of driver "Ishaq Ahmad". "Raj Kumar works as a munshi for Bareilly-based advocate Harish Bhatia who fights accident claims related cases. Raj Kumar had managed to get Syed Imtiyaz Qadri to surrender in the court. However, Raj Kumar knew Qadri as Ishaq Ahmad and was unaware that he is an imposter," said the source. However, Raj Kumar, who is a resident of Jogi Nawada locality of Bareilly is absconding along with his wife and children.
 
  Ishaq, whose copy of driving licence was used by Qadri when he surrendered in the court said, "When I learnt that someone used my driving licence to surrender in the court, I confronted Qadri. He told me that Raj Kumar met him and asked him to appear in the court for Rs 8,000. Qadri was informed that all four passengers of the auto had sustained injuries." TOI contacted advocate Harish Bhatia, he said, "I have not heard of this Audi-auto accident. I do not know Raj Kumar, Ishaq Ahmad, Syed Imtiyaz Qadri or Dr Manish Rawat (owner of the Audi)."
 
  Even the call records of Ishaq and Qadri have revealed that Qadri was in Bareilly but Ishaq was in Gandhinagar in Gujarat at the time of the accident. He was reportedly using the driving licence of Ishaq, whose family he knew, and people knew Qadri as 'Ishaq' or 'Bombaiya' as he was earlier living in Mumbai.
 
  It has also come to light that Ishaq had deliberately given his copy of the driving licence to Qadri nearly two months before the accident. "Though Ishaq claimed that Qadri was keeping a copy of the driving licence without his knowledge, Ishaq deliberately gave it to the latter as he was going through financial problems. Qadri, a family friend of Ishaq and co-tenant at Peer Bohra village, owed Rs 1,900 to Ishaq and hence the latter decided to allow him to use his driving licence," said sources. 
 
 Though Ishaq reached Bareilly on February 6 to clear his name and gave a complaint to SSP Bareilly on February 7, he has been "reluctant" to go to Ghaziabad to record his statement. "I have been asked to record my statement in front of SSP Ghaziabad on March 10. I will go this time. The team asked me why I didn't come earlier. I told them that I was not keeping well and had financial problems," Ishaq said.
 
