Itishree.Misra@timesgroup.com

 To have actor  , of ' ' and ' ' fame, plan a special visit to a small town like  , around 190km away from Lucknow, comes as a bit of a surprise. But a few days ago, Sonu landed at Lucknow airport in the morning and headed straight to the town by road through the Lucknow-Agra expressway. LT decided to accompany the actor on this journey and chat up with him.
 "This trip I had planned sometime back and as expected everything was great in Farrukhabad. I have a very dear friend there and in fact, all the people who work with me in Punjab are actually from Farrukhabad. They came as kids, they grew up there and got married and had kids there. So, I have very close connection with the place and my friends wanted me to do something for Farrukhabad. So that's why I opened a gym there. It's a kind of place where anyone can walk in, work out and get fit," says Sonu, a fitness freak, who opened his first gym in his hometown in Moga in Punjab and the second one here in Farrukhabad. What's special about these gyms is that the services offered here are absolutely free of cost. "All the machinery and equipment is free for anyone to use. Basically, I want to provide access to such facilities to people who can’t otherwise get them, especially at remote and small places," sums up the actor. 
 At Farrukhabad, Sonu was accorded a warm welcome with people of all ages surrounding him and showering him with flowers. Several came with rose garlands and the actor obliged them all by wearing the garlands and accepting dozens of bouquets from them all. With several mobile cameras aimed at him for selfies and pictures, we could hear Sonu say, "This is so overwhleming." He was even more touched to see the roads leading up to the venue lined with banners, posters and also people holding placards with Welcome Sonu Sood written in bold on them. Once at the venue, Sonu was greeted by his friend Dr Jitendra Yadav and others and later he spoke to the youth who were excited to have an actor like him amid them. "This gym is for all of you. Health is wealth so make use of the gym and be fit and happy," he said. 
 Later, the actor also visited a girls' school where the students screamed his name and rushed over to click selfies with him. 
 
  
  Sonu was surrounded by fans in Farrukhabad (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmed Siddiqui)
 
  But the gym is not all that Sonu has planned for UP. There's much more in offing, the actor reveals. "The next thing that I’ve planned is a film based in Lucknow and other places in UP. The story is based in North so I'm planning to come here soon again to finalise things. One small recce has already been done by the director and hopefully by next month we’ll have a second recce and try to chalk out all the locations. And sometime in November or December we should start shooting in Lucknow," reveals the actor, adding, "We haven't decided on the cast yet, we have just locked the script. Now I think the whole casting will start and then we will be able to say who will be there in the film. But you will be seeing more of me in Lucknow and believe me, I am really looking forward to it." 
 Ask him if he has any particular actors in mind for his film and Sonu springs another surprise saying, "In fact, the film I’m planning here, you'll see me as the lead in that. It is a social kind of film and since I loved the dialect of North in 'Dabangg', so I'll be using that same dialect and language in the film. I love the way you people here in Lucknow speak in that special Lakhnawi tone and andaaz. I'm trying to use that in my film and looking forward to playing that character. And since I have a lot friends from Lucknow and UP, so I kind of know their body language and the way they speak so I think I'll be able to get all of that right,” he adds.
  Having lots of friends here in the city and also Farrukhabad, Sonu's two-day stay here was spent in meeting friends. "I’ve been busy since morning meeting all my friends here. From college days I have lots of people whom I know who are from Lucknow. Friends, their families, then there are college mates. You know everyone comes and meets me and it’s an almost unending process but I think it's always good to be loved and connect with people whom I've grown up with. There's Dr Jitendra Yadav who’s a very dear friend in Farrukhabad and then there’s another friend Ajay and another one Rajesh. All these guys have been my college mates and it was lovely meeting them again," he says. 
  
  Sonu stopped at the Lucknow-Agra expressway to enjoy the view and (inset) Stepping it up at his gym in Farrukhabad (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmed Siddiqui)
 
 Sharing his feelings about Lucknow, Sonu says that he obviously loves the place not just because he has friends here but also because the city is special. "I always feel that Lucknow is a very special place. And the way people here take care of you and look after you is so good. People here are so warm hearted and they welcome you wholeheartedly and they’re very very good. The hospitality is great. They are so rooted, so grounded. I have lots of friends in Lucknow and major parts of UP so I can connect with them and I think their geniality and humility is what attracts me most to them. Besides the road trip from Lucknow to Farrukhabad was superb. Driving on the Lucknow-Agra Expressway was great. It's a beautiful road and some stretches in between are just amazing," says the actor. 
  Talking about moviews, Sonu also lets in that the final draft of the script of the biopic he’s making on shuttler   is almost ready and the actor will begin casting for it soon. Having wished for Deepika Padukone to play the lead in the film, Sonu says he's hoping for the best. When we ask him so, he says, "We are now almost ending the third draft and now the final sitting is going on and hopefully by this month end we'll be able to lock the script also. As far as who will play Sindhu in the film is concerned, nothing is finalized yet. Once we lock the script only then we’ll know the real structure of the script and then we’ll take a call on whom to cast. But let’s hope for the best because the script is the most important thing."
 — Itishree.Misra@timesgroup.com
 
 
