Panaji:   offices across the state will remain shut on Wednesday and Thursday to allow the department to upgrade to a new software. Consequently, people will not be able to avail of any postal services or pay their telephone bills at post offices on the said days. All 104 urban post offices and 153 village post offices will remain shut for  . However, signs informing the public of the same were put up at various post offices only on Monday and Tuesday, leaving people with little or no time to prepare. 

 Postmaster general of the Goa Region, N Vinodkumar, said that the Information technology project implementation for the department is being taken up in several phases. The core banking system integration phase, which involves the computerization of all baking activities, has already been completed. 
 
 All 104 urban post offices have been converted into core banking branches, giving consumers the option of withdrawing their money from any post   across the state.
 
 Under Rural Information Communication Technology (RITC), which is the second phase, all 153 village post offices have been provided with handheld devices to facilitate withdrawal, deposits and other banking transactions. The department is also at making provisions for round-the-clock security so that its ATMs can be kept open 24 hours.
 
 In the third phase, that will be rolled out in the next few days, all the department’s backend operations and counter operations, including mail delivery, tracking and human resources, will be IT integrated, thus helping speed up operations. 
 
 The dates for the roll out were decided by the postal directorate at Delhi after allocating Tata Consultancy Services resources and looking at the capacity of the vendors to support the roll out of various services, Vinodkumar said. Old computer hardware has been replaced and updated in preparation of the IT implementation. Once all the post offices migrate to this system, Goa will become the first state to fully implement the IT system. In the future, the department aims to have a consumer portal where customers will be able to avail of internet banking and mobile banking facilities.
 
 
