SURAT: At least 76 policemen posted in 50 police stations of the districts of south   will face action for having failed to give satisfactory service to complainants. Their unsatisfactory work was established through the call centre set up at Surat range inspector general of police’s office between September 2016 and April 2017. 

 The executives of the call centre set up under Police Public Response Monitoring System and named PREM randomly contacted around 30% of the complainants over phone to know if they were satisfied with the police’s response. The complainants were asked if they had received a copy of the FIR, whether they were heard properly and have any specific representation to make. 
 
 All police stations in the region were instructed to maintain a register with details of each visitor and the reason for his or her visit when the project was launched. Deputy superintendents of police were instructed to contact the complainants within three days of their complaint being registered. The details reach the IGP’s office facilitating the call centre executives to call up complainants randomly.
 
 Until now 1,387 complainants and 3,928 applicants have been contacted by the call centre. “Till now, we have contacted randomly 30% of people. We will contact 100% complainants and applicants since the system is in place. This system has helped a lot to improve our efficiency. Local police take necessary action in cases without having to be prodded by senior police officers,” said Shamsher Singh,  , Surat range.
 
 “This has reduced the number of applicants who used to come to my office. This has saved applicants from running from pillar to post and approaching senior police officers from different parts of south Gujarat,” Singh added.
 
 The IGP’s office has asked SPs of Surat, Navsari, Valsad, Tapi and   to take action against these cops. The cops will be served show cause notices and after an inquiry subjected to different forms of action, a senior police officer said. 
 
