NAGPUR: Even though it describes itself as a disciplined party, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidates will face a long list of rebels in the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) elections. Over 100 BJP leaders are contesting as rebels against party candidates from different wards. Seven of the Saffron party’s sitting corporators too are in the fray from different parties or as independents.

 Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, union minister  , BJP legislators and office bearers spoke to all rebels over the last five days, and managed to make many withdraw their nomination forms. Still, names of many BJP leaders can be seen in the final list of candidates released by the civic body on Wednesday.
 
 Seven sitting BJP corporators are among the rebels. Three-time corporator Anil Dhawade is contesting from ward no. 21 as a   candidate, two-time corporator Anita Wankhede is in the fray from ward no. 24 as a Shiv Sena candidate, one-time corporators Meena Tidke from ward no. 11 will be NCP candidate, Ramesh Punekar from ward no. 20 has crossed over to the  , Ramdas Gudadhe’s wife Rupali is contesting ward no. 21 as Shiv Sena representative, while Sulochana Kove from ward no. 21 and Vishaka Maind from ward no. 15 are standing as independent candidates. Vishaka, wife of BJP leader Baba Maind, was the BJP’s first ever unanimously elected candidate in 2012 NMC elections.
 
 Surprisingly, even Gadkari’s close aide Shripad Nisaldar, director of  , is contesting against ruling party leader Dayashankar Tiwari from ward no. 19. BJP sources told TOI many from the party, even Gadkari, requested Nisaldar to withdraw his nomination form. “Nisaldar was even promised a promotion as chairman of Vidarbha Premier Housing Society. However, Nisaldar decided to contest anyway,” sources said.
 
 Nisaldar is also a prominent RSS swayamsewak.
 
 In the same ward no. 19, another BJP leader Sunil Shriwas is also contesting against sitting corporator Sanjay Balpande.
 
 Baby Rarorkar, mother of BJP city vice-president Vishal, is also contesting from ward no. 20. Close aides of BJP Central Nagpur MLA Vikas Kumbhare — Raju Dhakate, Bhaskar Parate and Giridhari Nimje — are also in the fray from ward no. 20 as independents.
 
 Some of the BJP rebels are also from ward no. 18 represented by mayor Pravin Datke, vying for the women seats, like Vaishali Udapurkar and Mrs Fating.
 
 Some prominent RSS swayamsewaks like Prasanna Paturkar, Vishaka Joshi, Pankaj Patel and Dr Dattatray Pitale have continued in the fray from ward no. 15. Sources said Fadnavis spoke to all of them but none compromised.
 
 Several BJP leaders in ward no. 14 are upset with the party giving a ticket to NCP corporator Pragati Patil. So, it was not surprising senior BJP leader Bihari Shivhare from Sadar roped in his daughter Ritika Shivhare against Patil. “I am working for the BJP for last 20 years. We gave BJP a corporator from our family in last elections. However, we were denied a ticket, which was given to a newcomer,” he said.
 
 Some BJP leaders like Bhushan Dadwe, Gopal Bohare, Hitesh Joshi etc took back their nomination forms after some convincing by senior party leaders.
 
