BENGALURU: Your   could get more expensive. A committee formed by the transport department has suggested minimum and maximum fares by classifying cabs into four categories based on the prices of the vehicles.

 The categories are: vehicles priced up to Rs 5 lakh, from Rs 5 lakh to Rs 10 lakh, Rs 10 lakh to Rs 15 lakh, and those above Rs 15 lakh.
 
 The minimum fare will be between Rs 12 and Rs 15 km, while the maximum fare will be between Rs 23 and Rs 30km. At present, there is no minimum fare fixed for cabs, but the maximum fare is capped at Rs 14.50km for non-AC and Rs 19.50km for AC cabs. Officials say the fare is calculated based on representations from drivers and  . The transport department's move to fix minimum fares and raise maximum fares is likely to impact cab users. At present,   are cheaper than autorickshaw rides which cost Rs 13 per km.
 
 For instance, economical cab services like Ola Micro and Uber Go (vehicles priced under Rs 5 lakh) charge as little as Rs 6 per km during non-peak hours, but the transport department's proposed fares for this category ranges from Rs 12 to Rs 23 per km.
 
 In the second category, fares for services like   (vehicles from Rs5 lakh-10 lakh), which currently charge an average of Rs 8 per km, will be increased to Rs 13 to Rs 25 per km.
 
 Ola Prime and Uber XL (vehicles priced at Rs 10 lakh-Rs 15 lakh), which charge about Rs 10 per km, will be increased to Rs 14 to Rs 26 per km. Luxury vehicles that now charge about Rs 25 a km will be increased to Rs 30 per km.
 
 The transport department has decided to fix minimum fares following protests by cab drivers in the city in February over decline in incentives and wages. “Cab operators like Ola and Uber charge more than Rs 11 per km not Rs 6 per km as they claim. In addition to the base distance fare, they charge an amount per minute and service charges. The revised fare will ensure a steady income for cab drivers,“ said another official.
 
 “We have come up with the fare based on various parameters like cost, durability and depreciation of vehicle, road tax, permit fees, toll charges, insurance fee of vehicle and fuel charges,“ he said.
 
 Initially, the department sent a proposal to the government to fix a minimum fare of Rs 10 per km for non-AC cabs and Rs 12 per km for AC cabs. However, the government turned down the proposal and asked the department to incorporate the suggestions of stakeholders, including cab aggregators. Many commuters are unhappy. “There is no need to fix a minimum fare. Cab rides are affordable because of the competition. The transport department should also consult commuters before finalizing the fare,“ said S Swathi, a regular cab user in Koramangala. As per transport department records, 1.47 lakh taxis operate in city limits. “We have been demanding that the transport department fix a minimum fare so we will get a steady income every month. Our earnings have dropped considerably over the past few months because of the lack of incentives from cab aggregators. Many drivers have also left and are driving office cabs due to poor earnings“ said  , a cab driver.
 
