AHMEDABAD: Residents of   area near   were jolted by a major blast early on Friday morning. Two LPG cylinders had exploded on the first floor of a commercial building, after which fire engulfed the building and scorched nearby areas. 

  The fire subsequently resulted in the collapse of the building. The collapse wrecked a parked auto and damaged a fire brigade vehicle. The Ahmedabad Fire and Emergency Services (AFES) received a call from   Clothing at Bawa nu Dehlu at 9.30am about the fire. The proprietors of the unit also own Mahesh Kumar Textile Fab Ltd in the same building.
 
 “Questioning has revealed that the building was used as a warehouse for finished and semi-finished products by the firms and the garments were stacked in various rooms,” said an AFES official. “It is possible that the fire started with a short-circuit and had reached the area where the LPG cylinders were kept. The cylinders were reportedly kept for employees of the building.” The AFES deployed 14 water tankers and bowsers, 3 firefighters, and one fire tender along with a staff of 50, led by chief fire officer M F Dastoor. The operation lasted for five hours.AFES officials said that nearby buildings reported damage as well. “Fortunately, there was nobody in the building when the accident occurred and thus there was no casualty,” an official said. “It is possible that the fire started earlier but was noticed only after the blasts. If all eight cylinders had exploded, it would have been a major tragedy.”Estate, health department officials visit the spot
 
 City mayor Gautam Shah visited the spot on Friday morning after hearing about the   In the afternoon, officials of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC)’s estate department and health department also inspected the area. Sources said that the visits were meant to ascertain whether the units had flouted norms. The warehouse had stored eight LPG cylinders of which two had been destroyed; six others had major or minor leaks. AMC officials said that if needed, the units would be issued a notice after investigation.
 
 Times View
 
 With Ahmedabad vying for the   status, civic authorities should shoulder greater onus of ensuring that stringent fire safety norms are followed by buildings, both commercial and residential. The Prem Darwaza fire has underscored how fire in one structure has the potential to wreak havoc on neighbouring buildings in the highly congested walled city and destroy priceless, century-old heritage structures.
 
 
