KOLKATA:   Sumita Sanyal passed away at the age of 71 at her Lake Gardens home on Sunday.

 According to family sources, Sanyal, who was ailing for sometime now, suffered a cardiac arrest around 10.30am and did not survive it. She was married to film editor Subodh Roy and is survived by a son.
 
 In her first film, she had Uttam Kumar as her hero. Hrishikesh Mukherjee had cast her opposite Amitabh Bachchan in 'Anand'. In 'Aashirwad', she was Sanjeev Kumar's heroine. As the news of her demise broke out on a rainy Sunday, many remembered Lata Mangeshkar's iconic `Jhir jhir barse sawani aankhiyan' that was picturised on her in `Aashirwaad'. Or perhaps one of the most memorable songs of Rajesh Khanna's Anand', `Na jiya lage na', which was also picturised on her. Others will recall her in the song `Ek thaa bach pan' from `Aashirwaad'.
 
 Though the actress was not that visible on screen in the recent times, posterity will remember her performances in some of the iconic films of yesteryears. That list would include her role in Satyajit Ray's `Nayak' opposite Uttam Kumar. Tapan Sinha had cast her in Dilip Kumar's `Sagina Mahato'. Gulzar's directorial debut -`Mere Apne' -had her in the cast along with Vinod Khanna. Who can forget her performance in Mukherjee's `Guddi' along with Jaya Bhaduri?
 
 Born in Darjeeling, Sanyal's real name was Manjula. Bibhuti Laha, the director of her first film, had changed her name to Sucharita when he cast her for `Khokababur Pratyabartan'.
 
 The name -Sumita -was given to her by director Kanak Mukhopadhyay. Sanyal was already a famous name in the Bengali film industry before she moved to work in Bollywood. Sanyal's filmography included some very important Beng ali films, such as - `Kanchankanya', `Kal Tumi Aleya', `Kuheli', `Dewa Newa', `Notun Jibon', `Harano Prem' and `Teen Bhuboner Pare'.
 
 Bengal chief minister   offered her condolences to the actress' family via Twitter: “Saddened at the passing of veteran actress Sumita Sanyal. My condolences to her family, friends and fans.“
 
 She also sent state minister Aroop Biswas to Sanyal's house to convey her condolences.
 
 Actor Prosenjit Chatterjee tweeted: “Saddened to hear about the demise of veteran actress Sumita Sanyal. May her soul rest in peace“. Director Agnidev Chatterjee recalled her stint on television and tweeted: “RIP Sumita Aunty. Played the negative lead of my first serial #Chowdhury Pharmaceuticals.“
 
