MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Thursday directed the state government to reconstitute a committee that was set up to protect and preserve  , by replacing the senior forest officer, its ex-officio member secretary. 

 A bench headed by Justice Abhay Oka was miffed that while the committee, constituted under an HC order, was doing an excellent job, its member secretary, Milind Panditrao, a divisional forest officer (mangrove cell), suggested at its January 10 meeting that there were committees headed by collectors at the district level to receive complaints, and there was no need for them to be referred to Navi Mumbai Mangroves’ Protection Committee (NMMPC), and the HC should be made aware of it.
 
 The court heard a PIL by Navi Mumbai Environment Preservation Society. The NMMPC was formed by the HC’s August 3-4, 2015 order and comprises the chairman (Konkan divisional commissioner) and representatives of Cidco, Navi Mumbai civic body, police, the petitioner and a senior forest department officer who will be ex-officio member secretary.
 
 The judges said they were “shocked’’ at Panditrao’s stand. “He is working as a member secretary in a committee constituted by an HC order. The state accepted it and did not challenge it. He can’t act contrary to it. He must be removed,’’ said Justice Oka.
 
 The government advocate said it was only Panditrao’s suggestion and not a committee decision but the bench noted from the meeting’s minutes that the committee decided to take legal opinion on it. The court noted that the committee was doing an excellent job. “All grievances on destruction of mangroves in Navi Mumbai have been properly dealt with,’’ it added.
 
 The bench, therefore, expressed surprise at Panditrao’s suggestion and noted that the meeting was meant to implement the court orders. “The secretary had no business to raise an objection that the very existence of the committee is not necessary,’’ the judges said. They directed the government to reconstitute the committee within two weeks, by appointing any other senior forest department official as member secretary.
 
