Gone are the days when   played smaller, yet pivotal roles. She’s the leading lady in not one, but two upcoming (and diametrically different) films helmed by acclaimed filmmakers. Last week, she joined Sanjay Dutt on his comeback vehicle, where she plays the title role. Over to Aditi, who opens up about proudly shuttling between Hindi and Tamil movies, her contemporaries and making it on her own...

 
 
 I didn’t even know Mani Sir was making a film. Their (in South) way of functioning is different from Bollywood. I got a message asking if I was free to speak. I replied with a ‘yes’. I flew to Chennai and worked with them for a day. While sitting in Mani Sir’s office, I was pinching myself to know if it was really happening. When Mani Sir asked, ‘Should we work together?’, I had a thought bubble, ‘You are asking me? It’s a no-brainer’.
 
 
 
 I don’t speak a word of Tamil, but I’m familiar with it as I’ve grown up learning Bharatnatyam. I had an option of learning the language in school, but I didn’t take that up. Now I wish I had listened to my mother, who had suggested to take the subject, but I was such a brat. Mani Sir’s assistant helped me pick up the language. It’s an uphill task but gratifying. When Mani Sir smiled at me from behind the camera, it meant the world to me. Often, he would put in an English word and I would not remember it. Eventually, he asked for all my dialogue to be in Tamil. I got so used to it that I’d fumble when I’d come across English words in the dialogue sheets.
 
 
 
 I worked with Rakyesh Sir when my acting career hadn’t even taken off. I was shooting Yeh Saali Zindagi when a chance to work with Imtiaz Sir came by. I was too new then, and didn’t even realise what I was doing. I admired his work as a director and wanted to work with him. Period! After so many years, I finally landed a chance to team up with Mani Sir. He discovers you, which is really fulfilling for an actor. He spent a lot of time, training me on my Tamil accent and the intonation. By the time we started shooting, I felt I was part of his production group. The experience has shaken up something inside me in a good way.
 
 
 
 I was naïve when I worked on Rockstar. I didn’t think about the length of the role, but I’m glad I was like that. I didn’t have that backing where projects are set up for certain actors. I’ve not had any support in the industry, but I’m not saying this with a sense of regret, anger or bitterness. It’s a fact. What do you do then? You pick the best of what you get and hope that one day things will work out for you. It’s only because of the audience that I got this far and survived for so many years in the industry.
 
 
 
 Yes, a lot of my work was edited out in Rockstar. It was different on paper. But I don’t hold it against anyone because it was done for the betterment of the film. They didn’t do it because they had something against me. You live and learn with every move you make. Fitoor, however, was a different experience; it turned out exactly how it was on paper. The backstory shown in the film is not in the book. My role of the younger Begum Sahiba was written for the film and so many people told me it was beautiful. When Abhishek (director Abhishek Kapoor) told me the story, I was moved. In those 10-15 minutes on screen, it was like living that girl’s life.
 
 
 
 Today, I can choose good directors to work with, which is important. I’ve grown up watching cinema from all over the world. I’ve seen superstars play bit roles in which they shine. They do it for the director. A senior filmmaker told me that in those 15 minutes in Fitoor, I outshone XYZ. That meant a lot. For a girl like me, who works in a particular way, it’s a matter of time, luck, patience and perseverance. Why can’t we believe that in those 10 minutes, a director will bring out something special which will be embedded in memory for life? Everyone from Jennifer Lawrence to Brad Pitt and Kate Winslet does it. Why can’t I?
 
 
 
 I don’t like the word ‘outsider’. By calling me that, you have already made a distinction. We’re actors. So, how does it matter where I came from? Outsider is a word a lot of people love. I didn’t grow up here and I don’t know the rules. It’s an advantage and a disadvantage and I choose to look at the former. I do feel bad about the disadvantages, but I get over them. It’s a blessing that I’ve worked with some incredible people. The length of the role has never been an issue, so I have landed films based on those performances. 
 
 
 
  changed her game and it takes a lot to do that. In our industry, we box people, lock that door and throw the key away. Slipping out of that box becomes difficult. Deepika broke it, and with utmost dignity. I admire her for that.   is uninhibited and fearless. I love what   stands for. And there’s Vidya Balan whose movies have always inspired me. She’s her own person, who created a niche for herself, independent of hits and flops. I’d like to do that too. It’s your talent that takes you through and not box office numbers, or the public perception of you.
 
  
  
 
 
