VARANASI:   on  , with an open terrace and an extended rooftop, was a perfect place to catch a glimpse of PM  , who embarked on a massive road show in the city on Sunday. The Muslims in the dargah had lined up ahead of the road show. As they waited for two hours, they heard the Aazaan around 6:30 pm, and while they read their namaaz, the PM passed by the area amid much fanfare.
 
  “Chalo, we missed him today, but he keeps coming. It is a good thing,” said 65-year old Mohammed Atif, recalling the day Modi filed his nomination in the city in 2014. “I go for many rallies and nominations. Aadmi jaata sabke saath hai, jeetata sirf ek ko,” he said.
  
  Even as he asked others to show him videos of the PM road show, one of them pointed out that it was beneath the dignity of “wazir e azam” to do a road show. “Koi galat kaam kiye hai toh batao. He only wants to establish more contact with his own people,” said Shambunath Tiwary, who has been with Congress for many years. Tiwary had also arranged tea for everyone on the terrace.
  
  
 
  
  Discussions there among those assembled, both Hindus and Muslims, till the PM arrived ranged from how congestion of bikes in UP was a serious problem to how Muzaffarnagar riots were created by all political parties.
  
  “Dekhiye Akhilesh ki sarkar ban sakti thi, par Modi us par haavi ho gaye hai,” said Rajendra Agarwal, a trader. He was countered by soft voices: “March 11 mein bahut kam din bache hai, just wait.”
  
  The narrow streets of Varanasi turned into a sea of saffron flags and conversations as PM Modi started his second road show in as many days in his parliamentary constituency. PM Modi covered about five kilometers — Police Lines to Kashi Vidyapeeth — in over four hours. After that he met important people of the city, including lawyers, doctors, writers and others.
  
  The streets were filled with supporters on bikes, all dressed in saffron. At points across the stretch there were stalls for people to get flower petals that were later showered on the PM by people on terraces.
  
  Almost an hour before the PM began his road show, BJP flags bearing the lotus were mounted on rooftops of houses dotting the PM’s path. Ahead of the PM’s cavalcade, BJP’s Mathura candidate Srikant Sharma road in an open vehicle flanked by supporters clearing the way for the PM.
  
  People such as Nandkumar Bind said: “Koshish toh kar rahe hai Modiji accha karne ki. Modiji ka fayda toh bahut hoga BJP ko.”
  
  BJP on Sunday said Saturday’s event was not an official road show of PM Modi, who was on his way to Kashi Vishwanath Temple and Kaal Bhairav Temple and people just joined him on his way. 
