AGRA: In an apparent move to spread its ideology among 10 lakh class IX and X students in Uttar Pradesh, the   is going to celebrate the birth centenary year of   by organising a competitive exam across the state on August 26. The exam will be based on a specially-published booklet that will contain the achievements of the Modi and Yogi governments and the philosophy of the   (RSS).
 
 BJP state spokesperson, Chandramohan, said “The top 10 students in each district will be felicitated on September 25. The question paper will be based on the booklet which will be distributed at the time of registration for the examination between August 1 and 5. The booklet is being published at the moment.”
  
 According to sources, the booklet will be specifically designed to propagate the ideology of the RSS and BJP and also the achievements of the party’s government at the Centre and the state.
  
 Senior   leader and former Union minister Ramji Lal Suman dubbed the move a ploy by the RSS and BJP to further their communal agenda. “Instead of adopting these diversionary tactics and spreading hatred, the government should pay attention to the problems of the common man,” he said adding that this would set a bad precedent.
 
 National secretary of the Congress, Vivek Bansal, said that the move was an attempt to “brainwash” an entire generation. “Unification is important rather than spreading a divisive ideology,” he added.
  
 According to sources, topics covered in the booklet include chapters on Deendayal Upadhyaya’s ideology, politics and social life, about cultural nationalism and ‘ekatm manavvad’ (integral humanism). Also, key decisions of the   like GST, BHIM app, demonetisation, surgical strike by the Army, the ‘Start-Up India’ initiative and the Swachh Bharat mission and development schemes and key campaigns like anti-Romeo squads launched by the Adityanath government will be part of the booklet.
  
 This year, an eight-day fair and exhibitions will be organised at Nagla Chandrabhan village in Mathura, the birthplace of Upadhyaya. Earlier, it was for three days only, said deputy secretary of Deen Dayal Dham, Farah, Manish Gupta. He said that village is being developed as a tourist attraction and the tourism department has been asked to provide all facilities to visitors.
  
 Gupta told TOI that some RSS functionaries will inaugurate the events on September 18 and the closing ceremony is likely to be attended by chief minister  .
 
