HYDERABAD: A sprinkling of students and activists gathered at the Masjid-e-Judi near the King Kothi Palace to offer floral tributes to the last ruler of princely state of Hyderabad Nizam VII Mir Osman Ali Khan on his 131st birth anniversary. A few kilometres away in   in   another small gathering recollected contributions of the former ruler that had transformed Hyderabad into a global city a century ago. 

 This was the little tribute paid to the Nizam who was also the   (governor) of Hyderabad state for five years after India became a Republic. Lamenting how the Nizam's birth anniversary did not see the powers that be place even a few flower petals on the resting place of Mir Osman Ali Khan, his grandson, Nawab Najaf Ali Khan, said, "Every landmark building from where the government functions today was built by the Nizam. His memories are now being sent into oblivion. He was the benefactor for all his subjects, irrespective of caste, creed and language." 
 
 Najaf Ali Khan was accompanied by former students of the Government High School for Blind Boys, which the Nizam had set up. At the Purani Haveli, Nizam's granddaughter Sahebzadi Rasheedunnisa Begum inaugurated an exhibition on the last ruler of Hyderabad.
 
 "When the Nizam departed, a gazette notification was issued by the state government extolling his contribution and services. His funeral was conducted with state honours. Why is there no remembrance and celebration from the government's side on his birthday today? He was the longest serving ruler with 37 years on the throne. There is no recognition for him now. The modern Hyderabad owes its existence to the Nizam," said Najaf Ali Khan. 
 
 Praising the Nizam, Moinuddin, who studied in the Government High School for Blind Boys set up in 1939, said he owed his government job to him.
 
 The Nizam opened the school after seeing the plight of a visually challenged boy from Maharashtra, Syed Hussain, who was abandoned in a train to Hyderabad. His family was tired of his disabilities. A Nawab, who noticed the plight of the boy, brought it to the notice of the Nizam, resulting in the birth of the school for the blind, deaf and dumb in Hyderabad, Najaf Ali said.
 
