The Metro commuters now have a new hangout option near  . The  's Prakriti Park, which is at a walking distance from the Metro station, has been designed on the junk-to-art model and is made out of iron scrap and broken pipes.

 
 
 
  
  (BCCL)
 
 
 
 
  
  One of the installations at the park (R) was the Delhi Metro's logo (BCCL)
 
 
 
 
  
  (L-R)Justice  , chairperson,  , PC Jain, chairman, The Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) and  , managing director, Delhi Metro (BCCL)
 
 
 
 
 Metro officials said that this park, which has 12 sculptures (created from recycled debris), will also help in educating people about recycling. A Metro official said, "Daily, thousands of people commute by the Metro, and spend time in the Metro premises. At the Shastri Park Metro Station, now they can also visit the park."
 
  Justice Swatanter Kumar, chairperson, National Green Tribunal, who took a tour of the park after inaugurating it, said, "It’s rightly called Prakriti Park, nothing else would have suited this ambience."
 
  NGT chief had too many questions to ask about the park, and he was quite happy to see the recycled projects. DMRC chief Mangu Singh gave him a detailed description on the contribution of the artists from across the country for this project.
 
  
  (L-R) Sharat Sharma, director (operation), Delhi Metro and  , spokesperson, DMRC (BCCL)
 
 
  
 
 The park is made not made only for commuters, or nearby residents of the DMRC colonies, but a section of the Prakriti Park has also been designed for the CISF officials. They will be using it as their parade ground. A senior CISF official, who was present on the occasion, told us, "Our jawans can come here for jogging. Besides, it will be our parade ground and we can do the show of our dogs as well."
 
  Anuj Dayal, spokesperson, DMRC, said, "Art lovers can also visit the environmental gallery where paintings have been put up."
 
  
  The inauguration of the park, which will also be used as a parade ground by the BSF, had a BSF band playing on the occasion (BCCL) 
 
 The sheds in the parking lot at the Metro have been installed with solar panels
 
 
 
 
