PUNE: The   ( ) has approached the   for a fresh   to confirm the presence of a   in the reservoir of the  .

 The NDA’s naval training team, which carries out basic watermanship training for its cadets, has restricted the training activity ever since a crocodile was spotted in the dam waters last June. 
 
 The authorities had approached the forest department which carried out a survey but no such reptile could be spotted. 
 
 A senior NDA officer told TOI on Friday, “There has been no fresh sighting after last June but we want to be fully assured that no crocodile is present in the dam’s waters so that we can plan and resume our full training activities. Recently, our naval training team officials met the forest authorities.”
 
 A senior forest officer said, “A fresh survey would be a daunting task considering that the dam has a capacity of 473 million cubic meters of water spread over a vast area. We will conduct a fresh survey post-monsoon considering the possibility that the crocodile may come out for basking on the shores during the winter.”
 
 Another forest officer said the sighting of the crocodile is limited and hence, they could not device a precise strategy to net it. 
 
 “We haven’t found a specific pattern of sighting and hence it is difficult for us to set a trap and catch the crocodile,” he added. 
 
 The defence academy has to deploy two boats with shooters during watermanship training for the safety of its naval cadets. 
 
 The academy has restricted cadets’ training to a particular portion of the waters. 
 
 “Activities like long-distance swimming and some extensive water sports which are imperative for naval cadets, can be re-introduced after the fresh survey,” the officer added.
 
 In August, 2014, the state forest department had caught a crocodile spotted by villagers in the dam not far from the area where the cadets train, sources said.
 
 Meanwhile, the academy had already proposed to procure three speedboats which would be pressed into service to monitor the presence of the uninvited visitors wading into the dam waters.
 
