BHOPAL: Low ranking Belarus lifted its game and took Rio Olympic qualifier Indian women’s hockey team by surprise in the second match of the Test series at SAI Centre,  , giving it a tough fight.

 India managed to secure 2-1 win after converting a ‘controversial’ penalty corner in the last minute of the game. Belarus team objected to the umpire’s decision to award penalty corner. Like their first match, Indian hockey team began on an aggressive note by opening attacks from both flanks. Regular attacks brought cheers to the Indian team dug-out in the 9th minute when the team was awarded penalty corner. Skipper Rani capitalised on the opportunity by scoring the goal to make the lead 1-0 in favour of India.
 
 It was expected that Indian team would intensify its attacks to increase the goal margin. They did it, but nothing went in their favour due to strong defence of the opponents and failure of the hosts to convert opportunities in front of goal mouth. On the contrary, Belarus made consecutive attacks in a bid to equalise the score. However, it took them 36 minutes to achieve the same. Sviatlana Bahushevich sounded the board to make the score 1-1 through a field goal.
 
 After this goal, Belarus made the going tough for the hosts. Restricting the ball in the danger zone of Indian team, the visitors put everything in the match. Indian team’s defence, however, foiled their every attack. Such was the domination of the Belarus that even spectators had to cheer up the Indian players. Buoyed by the encouragement, Indian players tried to bounce back in the match. In the last minute of the game, stopping the Indian players wrongly dashed the hopes of the visitors to restrict India to a draw. Lalremsiami converted the PC into goal to end the match 2-1 in favour of India.
 
 Belarus coach Uladzimir Lushchyk, however, objected the decision to award the penalty corner. “It was a wrong decision. My player did nothing that could invite any foul on her part. I am disappointed, but no issues,” he said.
 
 
