Envoys of 44 African nations have called for an independent investigation by human rights bodies, including the UN Human Rights Council, on the recent attacks on Nigerian students, dubbing it ‘xenophobic and racial’. However, External affairs minister Sushma Swaraj said that ‘not all attacks are racial’ in Lok Sabha yesterday. Referring to the recent attack on four Nigerians in Greater Noida, she said, “The incident took place when some miscreants took advantage of the anger among locals over the death of 19-year-old Manish, allegedly due to drug overdose. An independent inquiry is underway. Before inquiry is completed, please don’t say it is driven by racial discrimination.” 

 The recent spate of incidents has, however, made the African community across the country wary. Bombay Times spoke to them about it...
 
 
 
 Most Africans say that they are often tagged as ‘drug peddlers’, ‘habshis’, and even ‘cannibals’ by the Indian community. Be it in their classrooms, on the roads or while commuting, they are subject to discrimination. 
 Sambo Davis Tekena, a member of the  , broke down when asked about the attack. “There is no difference in the way Africans are treated all over India. Whether it is Delhi or Mumbai, the people of this country feel that we are druggies. There is no record of Africans, who have been misplaced, murdered or attacked. The law and order in this country does not extend any support to us,” he says. Sharing his experience of racial discrimination, he recalls, “Around 2012, I was attacked in Mumbai. I was at a laundry store in Santacruz, when a bunch of cops threatened and beat me up publicly. They constantly kept calling me a druggie.” 
 
 Stanley, a 42-year-old garment exporter in the city, faced his own set of problems. “What happened in Bengaluru and Noida could also happen in Mumbai. In fact, it has been happening, just that nothing gets reported. There are no official records or statements of Africans who have been victimised in this country. We are not given access to accommodation in many housing societies across Mumbai because we are African. There are boards which are put up saying, ‘No Blacks allowed’. Some have faced discrimination in restaurants as well,” he reveals.
 
 
 
 Chinedu John Nwoke, president of the Association of Nigerian Citizens, West Bengal, says, “I have just returned from a bank in Jadavpur, where I asked an officer if he could lend me his pen. He waved me away without even a glance. This has happened to me just a while ago. Can you just imagine how the poor students must be treated?” 
 
 He adds, “So many of our students are languishing in jails here. There are cases of those who have come here on genuine visa, but get arrested. There was a case of a boy, a football player from Nigeria, who went to the Foreign Regional Registration Offices (FRRO) to register his visa. They arrested him. It’s been more than two years since that incident and he is still in jail.”
 
 
 
 “Isn’t India the country in whose Independence, non-violence played a crucial role? Have Indians completely forgotten Mahatma Gandhi’s values?” asks a group of angry African students in Delhi. Nigerian national, Presidoe Okuguni, who is a student at Stratford University, and is the public relations officer at the Association of South African Students in India (AASI), calls the recent attacks a shameful act. “Indians all over the world keep talking about racism and discrimination, but back home, they are doing the same thing. For me, it is hypocritical. When a little boy sees me on a street, he starts running, as if he is running for his life. I don’t blame the kid, I blame the people who have told him to behave this way. It is time India wakes up to the reality,” he says.
 
 Nigerian student, Michael Kemya, adds, “Indians need to accept that they are not the only ones living in this world because when they see us walking on the streets, they think, ‘What’s this?,’ not even, ‘Who is this?’. They look at us as ‘something’ which is not a human being.”
 
 
 
 While there is discontent, African students also point at the positive side of living in India. As Pune student Karimi*, who is from Kenya, says, “The attacks have affected us, but you can’t get bogged down by them. You won’t be able to survive at all then.” John Patrick,Omegere, president, AASI, Pune Chapter, informs, “The city has been relatively good to us, but we never take it for granted. I appeal to all the African students to remain calm and, most importantly, be vigilant of their surroundings.”
 
 Kennedy Amtonsah from Ghana, who studies law in Kolkata, prefers to call India his second home, despite the challenges. “India is my second home since I have been here for more than three years. I like the food, culture and surroundings. I have not been threatened myself, but hearing what has happened to others definitely makes me scared. We are here to study and we don’t want problems,” he says. 
 
 
 
 Students in Mumbai gathered against the violence and discrimination on Monday, in front of Kalina University. Preethy Sekhar, secretary, Democratic Youth Federation of India, says, “The protest meeting was addressed to reaffirm anti-imperialist comradeship and unity of Indians and Africans. African nationals living in Indian cities have been at the receiving end of many hate crimes in recent years in cities like Delhi and Bengaluru. We appeal to all sections of society to come together against such violence and intimidation.” 
 
 
 
 
