CHANDIGARH: A month after the triple murder on   at Sheikhpura village in   district, following a clash between two groups of Gujjar community, the police have been able to arrest only eight out of the 23 accused named in the FIR. Out of 15 families of accused, who had left the village on the fateful day leaving back locked houses, around five are still on the run. 

 Hisar superintendent of police (SP) says till date none of the arrested accused has mentioned that deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Bhagwan Dass, who had later committed suicide, had any role in the triple murder.
 
 Three persons had died on the spot and three others had sustained injuries in the clash two groups. The majority group allegedly enjoyed the support of the deceased DSP. After the firing, police had recovered around 150 live and used cartridges from accused Subhash’s house, just opposite the house of deceased Ram Kumar (57) of the other group.
 
 After DSP Dass’s name had figured in the FIR registered for murder and other offences on March 14, he was immediately transferred from Hisar to Panchkula, where he shot himself in the head with his service revolver on March 15. He had succumbed to injuries on March 28.
 
 Dass had left back a suicide note and had blamed persons of the opposite group, including deceased comrade Ram Kumar for compelling him to take the extreme step. His younger brother Pappu alias  , named in the triple murder FIR, is still on the run. The deceased DSP’s other two brothers Surender and Sunil are also in Haryana police.
 
 Though 30 CRPF personnel deployed in the village to maintain law and order have been withdrawn, the Hisar police are continuing with a temporary police post Sheikhpura with 10 cops under supervision of a sub-inspector.
 
 Hisar superintendent of police (SP) Rajender Kumar Meena said, “Till date none of the arrested persons have mentioned that DSP Bhagwan Dass had any role in the triple murder.” The police have constituted a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the incident.
 
 Whereas, complainant Sanjay Kumar’s statement in the FIR read, “When my father (Ram Kumar) opened the gate from inside, we saw a white colour vehicle in front of the gate. Vehicle was having blue beacon atop and DSP Bhagwan Dass was sitting inside who raised the lalkara (challenge) that finish Ram Kumar’s family and their friends. Rest I will manage. Thereafter, a group of over 23 persons accompanying the deceased DSP started indiscriminate firing for around 20 minutes between 2.30 pm and 3 pm.”
 
 Uday Bhan, Hansi Sadar station house officer (SHO), admitted that the deceased DSP was in the village on the fateful day but not on the spot. Bhan informed that the police have on Thursday recovered one licensed .32 bore rifle and a country made pistol after Subhash’s arrest.
 
 Panchkula assistant commissioner of police Dalip Singh informed, “After taking Dass’s writing samples from Hisar, we have sent his suicide note for examination to the forensic science laboratory to Madhuban. After forensic report comes, we will take the investigation ahead.”
 
 Though the police say murders were result of an old tussle and the scuffle between youth of the two groups twice on Holi under the influence of liquor, villagers attribute multiple reasons. One of the reasons includes former two-time sarpanch Balbir’s defeat in the last year’s panchayat elections to deceased DSP’s computer engineer daughter Pooja Rani. The group supported by deceased DSP used to interfere in the management of village historical Dera – Dera Baba Raju Nath Ji – which gets donations of over Rs 1 lakh a month, alleged villager Kuldeep.
 
 Complainant in the case Sanjay alleged that their group wanted to oust Dera head Baba Phool Nath from the village after last August’s FIR against him under the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act for the molestation and rape of a seven-year-old girl but the deceased DSP used to shield him. Hisar SP Meena said, “We have issued arrest warrants and constituted a team to arrest Dera head.”
 
