BENGALURU:   is in talks with potential suitors to sell Freecharge, the mobile wallet platform owned by Snapdeal, separately for as low as $150-200 million, people familiar with the matter said. The Alibaba-owned   is one of the frontrunners to clinch   if terms between the two parties are agreed upon, sources indicated.

 People familiar with the matter, however, cautioned that SoftBank's priority at the moment is to sort out the shareholder discord at Snapdeal and get a toehold in  , after which it will finalise the sale of Freecharge.
 
 The e-wallet firm was bought by Jasper Infotech, Snapdeal's parent, two years back for $400 million in a combination of cash and stock. Over the past year or so, Freecharge has held discussions with global payment majors like PayPal and PayU for raising fresh capital, but those talks did not materialise. It had at the time been able to attract interest from investors, some of which valued the mobile wallet player at $900 million.
 
 The Japanese telecom and internet major, helmed by Masayoshi Son, is trying to consolidate its position in the Indian market, where it has ploughed in around $2 billion in capital across consumer internet startups.
 
 A person directly aware of the development said the Vijay Shekhar Sharma-led Paytm was approached by SoftBank few months back when Jasper Infotech was seeking a valuation of at least $500 million for Freecharge. “A lot has changed with both Snapdeal and Freecharge in the last quarter. Paytm is interested in Freecharge but only if the math is reworked. It also wants exclusive rights along with the deal to become the sole payments platform for Flipkart and Snapdeal,“ a person privy to the matter told TOI.
 
 The Flipkart-owned PhonePe enables  , and has been talking to investors like PayPal for an independent funding.
 
 Sources said Paytm may look to pay around $150 million, provided Freecharge comes with exclusivity rights, wherein the Noida-based company becomes the sole payments option on platforms like Snapdeal and Flipkart.“As these e-tailers have plans to sell financial products in the long term, such exclusivity agreements will help Paytm's financial services business,“ the person said.
 
