PATNA: World   Week, an initiative of the Unicef to encourage breastfeeding and improve the health of babies around the world, will be observed across the state from August 1 to 7. The aim will be to support breastfeeding mothers through community, friends and childcare providers as the awareness level is still very poor in the state.

 According to Unicef officials, nearly 48% infants in Bihar died due to breastfeeding related nutritional issues in 2015-16. Instead of exclusively breastfeeding newborns as recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO) and Unicef, many mothers depend on formula milk in the state.
 
 Breastfeeding is the best way to provide infants with the nutrients they need. WHO recommends exclusive breastfeeding starting within one hour after birth until a baby is six months old. Nutritious complementary foods should then be added while continuing to breastfeed for up to two years or beyond.
 
 The National Family Health Survey (NFHS) data on child feeding practices and nutritional status of children suggests that almost two-thirds of children under the age of three years in Bihar (65%) are not breastfed within one hour of birth. In Bihar, 41.8% children are breastfed after one hour of birth in urban areas and just 34.2% in rural areas.
 
 Shivani Dar, child development and nutrition officer, Unicef, said the first hour after birth is crucial for breastfeeding. “Colostrum, which is produced in the milk in the first few days after a baby’s birth, boosts immunity, improves mental and physical performance and helps build lean body mass,” she said, adding breastfeeding reduces under-5 mortality, prevents episodes of diarrhoea, pneumonia, asthma and food allergies besides improving IQ in children by 3 points. “People who have been fed formula milk become vulnerable to obesity, type-2 diabetes, hypertension and leukaemia in their late 30s or 40s,” said Dar.
 
 Breastfeeding also benefits the mothers. Gynaecologist Dr Nikhat Alam said apart from various health benefits of breastfeeding for the mother, there is a psychological satisfaction that her child is fed and taken care of. “Breastfeeding releases a hormone called oxytocin in the mother that contracts the uterus and helps her in regaining pre-pregnancy shape quicker. It helps the mother to shed the weight she puts on while pregnant. LAM (lactational amenorrhea method) is a natural form of contraception. If a mother breastfeeds completely till six months, she does not experience menstruation for that period, thus preventing excessive blood loss,” she said.
 
 
