GUWAHATI: The gateway to the northeast, Guwahati, lies a confused city, caught between the opposing political drives of   and  . Many of its major roads now have two names proposed, one by the present BJP-ruled government on Thursday and the other by the previous Congress government 13 years back. 

 The Hatigaon Road connecting Ganeshguri to the national highway, which was proposed to be renamed after India's fifth President Fakhruddin Ali Ahmed by the Congress government, has now been proposed to be named after one of the state's Vaishnavite saints, Haridev, by the present government.
 
 The   road, more commonly known as GS Road, which is the city's busiest road that runs by the state capital complex and is the trunk road connecting the city to the entire northeast region, is also one of the oldest roads of the entire region. Built by the British as a bridle path or a horse trail around 1866 connecting the city with Shillong, the road was previously known as Rowlatt's Line, after the then Principal Assistant Commissioner of what is now called Khasi and Jaintia Hills, Major EA Rowlatt.
 
 In 2004, chief minister Tarun Gogoi had announced that the part of this road from Ulubari to Khanapara would be named  , much to the disapproval of the BJP, which was in opposition then. On Thursday, the state government announced a well-thought-out proposal to rename the road again, after Vaishnavite saint Srimanta Sankardeva, knowing full well that there will be no opposition to this from any quarter.
 
 Gogoi said he does not remember the new names of all the roads his government had proposed in 2004. "I am not sure, but probably we only announced the new names and did not notify the changes," Gogoi said. He added that by proposing even newer names, the present government has humiliated all those departed souls after whom his government had proposed naming some of the roads in the city.
 
 Similarly, the express highway or the VIP road, which the previous government wanted to be named as Tarun Ram Phookan Road, after one of the state's leading freedom fighters, is now proposed to be named after Srimanta Sankardeva's principle disciple, Madhabdev.
 
 Gogoi expressed surprise as to why the government has proposed to rename the Kahilipara road after RSS ideologue Deendayal Upadhaya. His government had proposed to name this road as Naranarayan Chilarai Road after Koch dynasty king Naranarayan and his brother and army commander, Chilarai. "Deendayal has no connection with  . They (BJP) may question why we chose Indira Gandhi's name and I would say she was the country's prime minister,"Gogoi said.
 
 
