HYDERABAD: Rejecting a convicted husband's attempt to acquire freedom on technical grounds, the Hyderabad High Court has said that preliminary work of police does not fall under the purview of the investigation. This cannot be called as investigation preceding the FIR, bench of Justice   and Justice U   said while dismissing an appeal filed by M Srinivas, the husband from Siddipet. 

  He had killed his wife and is seeking an order from the court to declare the investigation done by the police as illegal as it was done before registering an FIR and hence falls foul of section 162 of CrPC (Code of Criminal Procedure). 
 
 He was convicted by a   district judge in September 2010 and was sentenced to life imprisonment. He filed an appeal before the High Court challenging the trial court order. The High Court bench in its judgment said that the general rule is that police register an FIR soon after they receive information of a cognizable offence and start the probe. 
 
 However, the bench said that sometimes cops may receive only a cryptic or incomplete information regarding the commission of a cognizable offence. Police can ascertain the same through site visit and preliminary probe prior to filing an FIR. 
 
 This cannot be shown as something that is contrary to the CrPC 162. 
 
 Police, upon receipt of information may rush to the spot to save the victims by referring them to the hospital or safeguarding the crime scene. All this preliminary works cannot be called as investigation. 
 
 The meaning of investigation, the bench said, as envisaged by section 2(h) of the CrPC, is the collection of evidence. This job of collecting evidence was done by the police in the current case only after registering an FIR and hence there is no illegality as was alleged by the husband, the bench said. The bench also went through the evidence put forth by the prosecution and concluded that the convicted husband had become a slave to his vices like liquor etc and was harrassing his wife for additional dowry. The prosecution could link all circumstances in a meaningful way to establish the husband's guilt.
 
 The HC bench in its judgment said that the general rule is that police register an FIR soon after they receive information of a cognizable offence and start the probe.
 
