BHOPAL: An imposing ancient structure is coming up at the entrance to Indira Gandhi Rashtriya Manav Sangrahalay ( ). The wooden structure is inspired by the ancient architecture dating back to 33 AD Kangla Palace gates of Manipur.

 The palace was constructed by   and had weathered many a storm in ancient times. The gate was reconstructed thrice after it was brought down by Burmese invaders between 1761 and 1768, during the Anglo-Manipuri war in 1891 and finally the third time by the British. Currently, only the western gate, which is named Raja Gambhir Singh gate remains, while the palace and the remaining part of the gate has turned into ruins.
 
 The gate at IGRMS is expected to be completed by the end of April. Interestingly, there are several gates inspired by the Kangla gate in Manipur, including Manipur University Gate, Kongzome gate and Moirang Kangla gate. IGRMS PRO   said the beautiful gate would help them preserve the historical and cultural essence of Kangla region of Manipur. “The Kangla gate was a symbol of pride for the people of Manipur. It depicts a mythical python, which is considered sacred by the people. But, we have not included this element and will only include the zig-zag thorns that depict the dorsal bone of the mythical python called ‘paphal’ in the local Manipur language, Meitei,” he said. He added that since it would have been very expensive and time consuming to get the elements from Manipur, they have decided to construct the gate in IGRMS with minor changes that would help them incorporate elements of all the gates in it.
 
 Museum associate and construction in-charge  , who hails from Manipur, explained the historical significance of the gate, and said Kangla was the capital of Manipur until 1981. “The original royal palace had four gates facing each cardinal direction and here we are trying to make one gate having all the characteristics of the original four gates,” he said.
 
 The project has been taken up by a team of 15 professional artists from Manipur who have also been invited to design the gate. “The team of artists studied the details of the gate in Kangla, Manipur, along with the ruins of the palace to be able to make a prototype to preserve the elements of indigenous architecture. The construction has begun and is expected to be completed by the end of this month,” added Singh.
 
