NAGPUR: Not for nothing,   is said to have midas touch. Whichever team he coaches, strolls its way into the final of  . The former Indian player has mastered the art of coaching.

 On Thursday, he guided Nagpur Academy Football Club (NAFC) into the final of the 2017 edition of the tourney. He became the only coach in tournament’s history to take his team into the summit clash for third consecutive year. NAFC got the better of   (SECR) 2-0 in the first semifinal match at Police Line Takli ground. Khalique was pleased with the way Amir Anjum and   played on the flank and scored a goal each against the experienced opponents in the crunch match.
 
 In the ninth minute, Rohit dropped a clever cross to the farther pole, where right-winger Amir was standing unmarked. Amir saw the opportunity, bent a little and headed the ball into the goal from zero angle to draw the first blood.
 
 After the goal, NAFC held the possession and made the life difficult for the railmen. In the 45th minute, Rauf Khan took a free-kick, which struck the pole and the ball went to the left on the rebound, where Rohit took a step forward and tapped it in to make it 2-0 and seal SECR fate. NAFC dominated the second half but could not score further. However, they hardly provided any opportunity to the opponents.
 
 Khalique is happy with the way his boys have played so far and against SECR in the semifinal. He is positive about NAFC’s good showing in the final.
 
 “I am satisfied with the boys but feel that the conversion should improve. Initially, we struggled as I became coach 2-4 days before the tournament. Later, my understanding with the players developed and our boys showed the result,” Khalique said after the match.
 
 Khalique mentored Young Muslim Football Club (YMFC) to two consecutive titles in the last two years. Surprisingly, he was sidelined before the start of the season as YMFC chose to go with another former Indian player Adil Akhtar. Now, Khalique’s NAFC would face either his former club YMFC or Rahul Sankrutyayan Sporting Club in the final.
 
 NAFC, who struggled in the league phase, did well to bring in Khalique as a full-time coach. Once the former Mohammedan Sporting and Mohun Bagan player took charge, NAFC were a different side. They played like a well-oiled unit and are now just a step away from lifting the coveted trophy.
 
 “I am confident that my boys will continue their superb show in the final. If things go well, just the way it did today, we will have good chance in the final,” Khalique, who played for India seven years, added.
 
