JAIPUR: Internet is turning out to be the new nemesis for the state police. The   released by the   (SCRB) for the year 2015 has set alarm bells ringing with the state recorded an increase of 33.06% in online crimes.

 The state recorded a total of 974 cases in 2015 compared to 732 in 2014, an alarming spike of 33.06%. Reporting 574 cases, Jaipur had the highest number of cases of online crime.
 
 Speaking about the increase in crime rate, SP   of SCRB told TOI that were several stumbling blocks that have led to the increase in crime rate. “People open bank accounts on fake documents and obtain SIM cards on forged identification cards. These are the two major problems we encounter while trying to nab the offender,” he added.
 
 According to Kaviraj, who was also part of the team that compiled the comprehensive report about crimes in Rajasthan-2105, the international jurisdiction in online frauds impedes investigation.
 
 “We have no control over international email service providers. They often decline to cooperate with us citing issues of jurisdiction,” he said.
 
 A senior official of the Jaipur police attributed lack of training and absence of a dedicated cadre to fight cybercrimes for the rise in such crimes. “We have a special telecommunication cadre. But cops are not equipped to tackle such technical cases,” the official added.
 
 In 2014, cops arrested 311 culprits for cyber-crimes. But only 197 people have been arrested in 2015, a decrease of 36.66%. The police are equally troubled by the slow rate of conviction in such cases. For instance, Jaipur (west) police district recorded the highest number of cases in the city, registering 220 cybercrimes. But they have filed chargesheets in only 14 cases and have about 51 pending cases.
 
 “The police rely on private investigators and hackers to probe matters of online fraud. But, there is always a suspicion of crucial information being leaked to these investigators. Therefore, the only solution is to set up an in-house investigation unit,” a senior police official told TOI.
 
 Even in cities such as Ganganagar, Bhilwara, Tonk, and Dausa, where the internet penetration is limited, cybercrimes are on the rise.
 
