MUMBAI: Former India skipper and chief selector   has hit out at the   for scheduling the on-going India-Australia limited overs series at a time when rains are pounding most parts of the country.

 “Why have an international One-Day series in the midst of a monsoon? No wonder the matches would be interrupted by rain, thereby robbing the cricket-loving people of watching their favourite players in action. Does the BCCI's   give it a thought to this obvious mistake that they are committing season after season?,” Vengsarkar told TOIon Wednesday .
 
 The opening match of the fiveODI, 3T20Internationals series, held in Chennai last Sunday , saw the game severely affected by rain as   were left to chase down 164 in 21 overs. The second ODI in Kolkata on Thursday too is under a massive rain threat, with both teams forced to practice indoors on match eve.
 
 A BCCI member, however, justified the scheduling of the high-profile series in September. “We need to finish off all our home engagements by December-end, because India are touring South Africa in January next year,” he said.
 
 Vengsarkar, a former vice president of the Mumbai Cricket Association (MCA) was also critical of the BCCI's decision to begin the 2017-18 season of the   from October 6, instead of the traditional early November start, as he felt that the heavy rains wouldn't allow most domestic teams to prepare properly for the tournament. “Of late, with the extended monsoon, the domestic cricketers in India hardly get any time to prepare themselves before the season starts in early October. I wonder why there is such a hurry to start the season in October and finish it by December end?” he wondered.
 
 “Why can't the BCCI start the season by the first week of November and finish it by end of January?
 
 That I feel would be right thing to do, as it would give enough time for the teams to prepare themselves and thereby be at their best to showcase their talent. Worse, the Under-23 starts before the Ranji Trophy . They get into the tournament with almost no match practise,” he said.
 
 “We've only six months to schedule everything. If we don't start by early October, we won't be able to wind up all our domestic engagements before the IPL. The technical committee of the Board must've taken all the factors into account before drawing up the domestic schedule,” defended a BCCI member.
 
 
