MANGALURU: Two rowdy-sheeters met a bloody end late Monday night in what   top brass insist is a case of gang war stemming from personal rivalry. The attack near Garden Hotel on the Bengaluru-Mangaluru NH at Farangipete under   limits left three injured, superintendent of police C H Sudheer Kumar Reddy said.

 Three police teams have been set up to nab the accused.
 
 The attack took place around 10.45pm, 15km from the city. The assailants, rowdy-sheeters from Adyar, came in an SUV, and attacked five members of a rival gang who were in another car. Police said the five assailants attacked Ziya, Fayaz and three others with swords. While Ziya, 27, died on the spot, Fayaz, 22, died on the way to hospital. Both were residents of Kannur. Musthaq and Hameez were injured and shifted to a private hospital where their condition is stable.
 
 Police constable Subrahmanya B, who was on duty at the nearby police outpost, rushed to the spot and saved Fazal and secured him at the outpost. Police sources said that the marauding gang who swung their swords wildly almost decapitated the constable too. Police have gained vital clues about the assailants by going through the CCTV footage from nearby buildings, the SP said. Soon after the incident, pictures of a car with its right-hand side bumper ripped off and blood stains on the right-hand side door did the rounds on social media.
 
 Police said an hour before the attack on these   hailing from Kannur, the accused made a vain bid on the life of a Ziya gang member.However, he escaped and informed Ziya, who with accomplices rushed to Farangipete.The rival gang learnt about his movement, followed the gang and attacked them.
 
 The slain Ziya aka Riyaz had been arrested along with six others for the murder of Ijaz at Kannur in 2014. Ijaz had been killed as payback for the murder of Sanna Putta alias Abdul Rahiman in 2012. Ijaz was murdered when he gone to a barbershop in Kannur for a shave.
 
 Ziya and his gang rushed inside and attacked Ijaz, killing him on the spot. Police said the gangs had been at each other's throats to establish local supremacy.
 
