BHUBANESWAR: The body of   (55), an entrepreneur, was found hanging in his house at   here on Thursday. Based on prima facie investigation, police said Padhi committed suicide due to the mounting debt burden. Padhi, who owned a chain of Padhee's Tutorial across the state, apart from   (KBRC) and Krushagra Institute of Information and Management Science (both in Cuttack), became bankrupt as his loan liabilities touched nearly Rs 30 crore, police sources said. 

 Padhi, a physics teacher, became a household name following the success of his tutorial, which would prepare students for different competitive and career examinations. 
 
 "We found a 10-page suicide note from his room. It was locked from inside. In the suicide note, he mentioned his financial bankruptcy," DCP Satyabrata Bhoi told TOI. 
 
 Rumours about him having borrowed huge money from private moneylenders, who had been threatening him to return their money, are also doing the rounds. "We are also investigating that angle," Bhoi said. 
 
 Padhi's sister-in-law Hena Mohapatra said he was suffereing from depression due to the loan burden. "When we found his room locked from inside for long, we knocked on the door. When he did not respond, we called our neighbours and broke open the door. To our utter shock, he was found hanging," Mohapatra said. 
 
 Sahadeva Sahoo, retired chief secretary and KBRC s advisor, said Padhi was planning to sell off his institutions to repay the loan. "He had carried out massive expansion of his two colleges and coaching centres by investing huge money. But he failed to repay the loan. He even sought help from his relatives to overcome the financial crisis, but to no avail," Sahoo nsaid. 
 
 Neighbours said he had been under a lot of stress ever since the   raided KBRC in 2012-13 in connection with the Plus II question paper leak. However, the probe agency had given a clean chit to the private college.
 
 "In 2011, the state government had also ordered a Crime Branch probe after 15 students of KBRC had made it to the top 20 successful candidates' list in the Plus II exam. But the government, which then suspected the college resorted to foul play, did not find any wrongdoing on its part," said Rabindra Hota, his neighbour. 
 
