CHANDIGARH: Down and out after the   sale around   hit Chandigarh's nightclubs hard, bouncers are now breathing easy -thanks to the apex court's observation on Tuesday that hinted at allowing cities to denotify highways within their limits.

 With a majority of Chandigarh's nightclubs, bars and hotels in sectors 26, 35 and 43, the ban meant that all establishments in these sectors were not allowed to serve liquor, as all of them abutted highways. Having been a bouncer for 15 years, Yashpal Saini was among those whose life changed overnight because of the ban. “I got married, took a house loan, had kids and was paying installments regularly, but the decision case as a blow. I was forced to sit at home. Now, getting a new job is not possible. I'm happy with the observation made by the apex court. It's positive sign that I will be getting my life back,“ he said.
 
 In the city's entertainment strip, Madhya Marg, 60 people on an average lost jobs at each of the hotels, nightclubs, and bars. UT had to shut 23 liquor vends and 50 bars mainly on Madhya Marg. According to Hotel and Restaurant Association of Chandigarh, around 5,000 people -including bartenders, bouncers, DJs, and waiters -lost their jobs and the local industry suffered loses worth Rs 150 crore a month.
 
 Another bouncer who used to work in Sector 26, Sarabjot Singh, said it was a signal from the   that it knew how houses were destroyed within one night. “We are hopeful of a positive verdict on the next date of hearing. Our lives were shattered in one night.Our dreams were crushed.We were not even able to pay rents,“ he said.
 
 A manager with a lounge said they had renovated their establishment 15 days before the ban was enforced.“We were just trying to recover the cost when the order came. We had fire people with 15 days of hiring them.We are expecting good news now,“ he said.
 
 For bouncer Sethi Dhaliwal¸ Tuesday's news left him feeling easy after a long time. “Before the ban, I use to do 5 gigs in a day. But after the SC order, I lost everything. I had to sell things from my house to pay for my daughter's school fee. Now that the SC has taken a lenient view of things, I am hoping for the best,“ he said.
 
