THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A project for setting up an   museum, which is the highlight of   project, was unveiled by the state   here on Wednesday. The museum will preserve the rare manuscripts the state has and provide opportunities for researchers to access them.

 The project, estimated at Rs 23crore, is aimed to be completed by 2020. “The idea we have mooted is to convert central archives building at Fort as the manuscript museum and find an alternative place for storing other archival documents there,” said historian Malayinkeezhu Gopalakrishnan, who is the technical advisory committee of manuscript library museum. Noted historian M R Raghava Warrier is heading the technical advisory committee which had its first meeting on Wednesday.
 
 The   has a collection of over one crore manuscripts, majority of which falls under rare categories. ‘Mathilakom records’, which detail the history of Travancore and stored at Sri Padmanabha Swamy temple, will count for over 3.5 lakh documents. The process of digitizing Mathilakam records is almost complete. As part of Vision 2020, the department plans to digitize almost all crucial manuscripts.
 
 The first meeting of the technical committee decided to put in place a proper indexing and cataloguing system of manuscripts in the proposed museum. “A particular set of documents will be preserved in a designated space and the history and interesting facts of those manuscripts will be told to the visitor through accompanying documents in that area,” said Gopalakrishanan.
 
 Archives and museums minister Kadannappally Ramachandran, who launched  , said that today’s youth should realise the importance of priceless historical treasures the state possesses. “Archival documents are part of our rich heritage. Each of us should strive to preserve those. We need to find time to familiarize with the treasures stored in our museums and archives”, said Ramachandran. The archives department also has planned to collect manuscripts from public and preserve them in the proposed museum.
 
 
