JAIPUR: After a five-month-long battle, the   has directed 49 of the 61   to be released to a   that helps to prevent  . Twelve of the   died after they were rescued in November last year.

 The court has further directed the foundation to take the camels back to Rajasthan, from where they were smuggled. They will soon be transported to the camel shelter run by the NGO, Dhyan Foundation, in Sirohi.
 
 On November 28, 2016, 61 camels were seized from animal smugglers at Khagra Mela in Kishanganj, Bihar. The camels were transported from Rajasthan, which is approximately 1,400km from Kishanganj, a border district, and a mere 35km from Bangladesh. Upon learning the news, Dhyan Foundation volunteers rushed to the aid of camels and filed for their release and received a favourable order five months later on Saturday.
 
 The court order further stated that the state respondents shall fully cooperate with the foundation to shift 49 of the 61 camels that survived to Rajasthan.
 
 The order comes under the provisions of the Rajasthan Camel (Prohibition of Slaughter and Regulation on Temporary Migration or Export) Act, 2015. Section 5(1) of the Act reads as follows: “No person shall export and cause to be exported any camel himself or through his agent, servant or other person acting in his behalf from any place within the state to any place outside the state for the purposes of slaughter or with the knowledge that it may be or is likely to be slaughtered.”
 
 Though the Rajasthan Act is not applicable in Bihar, the violation would still be treated as an offence under the Act as there is no other law prevailing in the state on the subject, observed the court and directed the foundation to immediately translocate the camels.
 
 The high court order came after a five-month-long legal battle waged by the animal welfare organization against the meat-mafia-administration nexus in the state.
 
 “The volunteers faced threats, attacks and severe resistance from all quarters. It took five months to get the high court order to transport the camels back to Rajasthan. In between, 12 camels have died and a 61-year-old lady activist, Nitasha Jaini, who is also a renowned painter, was brutally assaulted by goons of the smuggling mafia on the very premises of Patna High Court,” said Nikita Anand, a volunteer at Dhyan Foundation.
 
 
