NEW DELHI: Despite this four-match series pitting the top two sides in the   against each other, there is a distinct air of a mismatch lingering over the 2017  . Steven Smith’s Australian team heads into the four-match series against the ICC’s top-ranked Test side as definite outsiders, having not won a Test on the subcontinent since 2011. 

 India are undefeated in their previous 20 home Tests matches, equalling the existing record at home, and are one undefeated match away from entering unchartered territory. How can   stop  , R Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja? 
 
 
 
 
 
 That question weights heavy on the series, which starts on Thursday as Pune’s Maharashtra Cricket Association Stadium hosts its first Test ever. Some of the Australian players have spoken of the plans in place to counter Ashwin and Jadeja, the top two bowlers in Tests, and Kohli, but such has been the form of these pivotal Indian cricketers that it would require something extraordinary to prevent a repeat of Australia’s last tour, which India won 4-0. 
 
 
 MCA Stadium, Pune
 
 
 February 23, 2017
 
 
 09:30 IST
 
 
 Hot with a maximum temperature of 36 degrees
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Against Bangladesh, India went with three pace bowlers. Ishant Sharma and Bhuvneshwar Kumar, whose recent chances have all come when Mohammed Shami has been injured, took three wickets and one wicket respectively. Both chipped in with incisive spells. Both were singled out by Kohli after the win. But this does not mean that both will support Umesh Yadav in Pune, where the conditions will probably merit a third spinner in Jayant Yadav, who until he was injured in November had been immensely useful as support to Ashwin and Jadeja. 
 
 
 1 Murali Vijay, 2 KL Rahul, 3 Cheteshwar Pujara, 4 Virat Kohli (capt), 5 Ajinkya Rahane, 6 Wriddhiman Saha (wk), 7 R Ashwin, 8 Ravindra Jadeja, 9 Jayant Yadav, 10 Ishant Sharma/Bhuvneshwar Kumar, 11 Umesh Yadav
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Australia’s training session at the MCA Stadium on Monday proved a revealing one, and indicated that Usman Khawaja is the one to miss out as the team management opts for Queensland opener Matt Renshaw as partner to David Warner at the top of the order. Khawaja trained on his own for much of the session and considering that he did not play the practice match in Mumbai, despite scoring at least 50 in evert home Test this season, it seems he will warm the bench with Renshaw opening and Shaun Marsh taking Khawaja’s place at No 3. The other change to Australia’s XI that played against Pakistan in January should be allrounder Mitchell Marsh slotting in for Hilton Cartwright.
 
 
 1 David Warner, 2 Matt Renshaw, 3 Shaun Marsh, 4 Steven Smith (capt), 5 Peter Hanscomb, 6 Mitchell Marsh, 7 Matthew Wade, 8 Mitchell Starc, 9 Steve O’Keefe, 10 Josh Hazlewood, 11 Nathan Lyon 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 “I’ve watched a lot of Ashwin, obviously he’s the number one bowler in the world and there’s a reason for that. He’s playing over in these conditions a lot, so I’ve spent a lot of time studying how he goes about it, so hopefully I can keep learning off him and watch him closely and try and put a few things into place.” - 
 
 
 “We respect every opposition. England was the most challenging, and in terms of how we want to prepare we’ve been in the best mode and all the players have had good runs with bat and ball.”
 - 
 
 
 
