PUNE:   at the state-run B J Medical College attached   continued with their   on the   of their protest on Thursday.

 Experts hoped for a breakthrough after chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’s assurances in the state assembly earlier in the day. Later, Bombay high court’s directives to the government to provide adequate security to the doctors also hinted towards a likely conciliation.
 
 However by evening, the protesting doctors made it clear that their protest via mass leave would continue till they get the written order of the Bombay high court, which was not uploaded on the court’s website on Thursday.
 
 “The judge did not sign the order today after the hearing. And hence it has not been uploaded on the Bombay high court’s website. Since we (residents) do not have the printed order with us, we are in no position to decide about our further stand. Hence, our mass bunk continues. Once we have the order with us, we will take legal advice and decide our stand. The order is expected to get uploaded tomorrow (Friday),” a resident doctor said.
 
 Another resident said, “We don’t want to get misled this time. There should be an absolute clarity over our basis demands like adequate security. We had bad experiences in the past. We want to tread cautiously this time around.”
 
 The state government has declared a provision of Rs 43 crore for deploying 1,100 security guards at 14 state-run medical colleges attached hospitals across the state. “This is an old assurance that has been reiterated again this time. Till the authorities give it to us in writing, our mass leave will continue,” another resident doctor said.
 
 Meanwhile at the  , all planned surgeries have been postponed. “We are currently handling only emergency care, including deliveries, road accidents and trauma cases and care of admitted patients,” said an official from the hospital. Authorities, however, claimed that services had remained largely unaffected as about 150 professors, associate professors, assistant professor and lecturers have been pressed into patient care services.
 
