One of India’s favourite music streaming apps,  , has not only found fans in the country, but is also making waves internationally. It has won the ‘Digital Media Company of the Year’ award at A&R Worldwide’s   2017, which was held in   recently. 

 Interestingly, it’s the only Indian music service to win an honour at this MUSEXPO, which is among the most well-recognised platforms 
 that brings global music partners and industry leaders together to discuss and exchange ideas, trends and a range of other topics. The award was presented by Mark Sutherland (Editor, Music Week UK) and Sat Bisla (President & Founder, A&R Worldwide) in the presence of other music industry executives. 
 
 Prashan Agarwal (COO, Gaana) says, “This award stands testament to the fact that India can produce world class products. Gaana is a way of life for our users and our focus to serve them — be it on their mobile phone, computer, in their car, or on TV — has led to this international recognition. We are honoured to have opened India’s innings on the world stage of digital music streaming.”
 
 With more than 70 million downloads, 34 million users and 1 billion streams per month to its credit, the app can be accessed in nine regional languages apart from English. In the last one year, Gaana has been recognised for its various ‘industry first’ initiatives, including India’s first Facebook messenger music bot. It also boasts of original content programming by artistes like  . The app has fast gained popularity with NRI audiences as well, after it launched its first global campaign in the US market this year. Now, music lovers across the world can listen to their favourite songs and artistes on Gaana by downloading the app.
 
 
 Gaana is the first music streaming service to launch Android Auto and Amazon Fire TV apps. 
 It also launched its first global campaign in the US market earlier this year, leading to a 300 per cent growth in active users amongst the NRI audience.
 Its English content consumption has grown by 172 per cent in the last one year. 
 The English content share has increased from 10.5 per cent to 14 per cent in the last one year.
 
  
  
 
