NASHIK: While food on wheels was a welcome sight for citizens, the latest trend of   being sold on wheels, especially near schools, has become a major cause of concern for parents and activists.

 Moving vans or autorickshaws selling tobacco and gutkha have become the latest method of luring school students into a tobacco addiction. Social activists are trying to get these tobacco sellers to move away from educational institutions but as of now the sellers refuse to budge. 
 
 One can easily sigth these mini vans near the Janata Vidyalay in Uttam Nagar, St Lawrence School and other civic schools close to it, Guru Gobind Singh School and College on Indira Nagar-Pathardi Road, Nashik Cambridge School and   at Indira Nagar and Sagarmal Modi School near  . 
 
 “The vendors sell chocolates and other such things as well so it gets the attention of children. Slightly older children are naturally tempted to try tobacco and gutkha,” said Nilima Kothawde, a housewife living in CIDCO. 
 
 Four such vans have been seen over the past couple of months moving close to the educational institutions during the lunch break or after school hours.
 
 “There are four tempos selling tobacco and gutkha. We spoke to them number of times asking them not to sell these near educational institutions. But they are very rude and say that it their business. They are seen particularly during lunch hours of schools and after the school gets over,” said Jagbir Singh of Manav Uthhan Manch (MuM), an NGO fighting against tobacco and gutkha dependency.
 
 Over the past six years, volunteers of MuM have been crusading against tobacco and gutkha usage. As per the norm, tobacco sellers are flouting regulations by selling tobacco at a radius of 100 metres from educational institutions. The ban was enforced by the central government after the Supreme Court’s order in 2001. From 15-20 stalls near educational institutions, activists managed to bring this number down to 10 and in May 2014 there were only three stalls flouting norms but the number went up to seven last January.
 
 “We wrote to the   (FDA) but stringent action is missing. We will have to find some legal solution to deal with the menace,” said Jagbir. 
 
