NEW DELHI: A“fake news” item put out by a Pakistani website started a chain reaction of spurious news among a bunch of Indian websites prompting Bollywood actor and BJP MP Paresh Rawal’s scathing tweet against activist-author  . 

 By Wednesday afternoon,   had deleted his tweet on Roy — “coerced by Twitter,” he said — and at least two websites had retracted the story. He had posted: “Instead of tying stone pelter on the army jeep tie Arundhati Roy!” On May 16, a website called Times of Islamabad carried a story headlined: “Even 70 lakh Indian Army cannot defeat Kashmiris: Arundhati Rai”. 
 
 The misspelt surname apart, the story did not specify the event at which Roy spoke, or the reason for her Srinagar visit. It simply stated, “Speaking during her visit to Srinagar, she said India cannot achieve its objective in the occupied Valley even if its army deployment raises (sic) from 7 lakh to 70 lakh, further adding that Kashmiris have remained committed with (sic) their anti-India sentiments from (sic) many years.” 
 
 Times of Islamabad website describes itself as a “News Agency and a Publisher with the Securities and Exchange Commission of Pakistan” and also as a “newspaper”. However, clicking on links to the epaper returns a page with the selected day’s news listed by URL. The “paper” also claims to have “resident editors” in Lahore, Karachi, Islamabad, Peshawar, and even London. 
 
 Pakistani TV news channel Geo TV had a near-identical report on its website on the same date. As of now it is unclear which one appeared first. 
 
 However, Facebook Graph API suggests the Times of Islamabad story appeared around 7.18am GMT, while the Geo TV story appeared at 9.44am GMT. 
 
 A message and an email sent to both organisations went unanswered. Pakistan state radio website radio.gov.pk also carried a two paragraph brief on it. 
 
 Roy did not respond to TOI’s messages and calls either. 
 
 Speaking to The Wire earlier, Roy said the report was false, and that she did not visit Srinagar. 
 
 On May 17, right-leaning Indian websites picked up the story, with a fair bit of editorialising. One called her “disgusting” while others questioned the right to free expression when the expression happens to be what they consider “anti-national”. Indian website Postcard.news carried the story with the headline: “70 lakh Indian Army (sic) cannot defeat Azadi gang in Kashmir: Arundati Roy gives statement to Pakistani newspaper!” 
 
 Like its Pakistani counterpart, Postcard News too misspelt Roy’s name. Till Wednesday evening, Postcard News was yet to issue a clarification. An email to them went unanswered. Following suit from Postcard News were others of the ilk like, theresurgentindia. com which attributed the story to Times of Islamabad, internethindu.in which had removed the story by Wednesday afternoon, satyavijayi.com, and theindianvoice.com. 
 
 Most of these Indian websites carried the story worded in a strikingly similar manner, even though they carried different bylines. On May 21, Rawal’s tweet went viral and was slammed by many on Twitter for being hateful. Scrolling down the BJP MP’s feed, one finds a tweet from May 17 where he tweeted a link to a Facebook page that carried the Postcard News story. He tweeted: “…is such a toxic...Her birth certificate must be a regret letter from maternity ward !” While Rawal’s Sunday night tweet suggesting that Roy be tied to a jeep’s bonnet is now deleted, his tweet from May 17 remains. 
 
 Roy, a Booker prize winner, has been vocal against state violence, especially in J&K. Back in 2008, Roy had also said, “India needs azadi from Kashmir as much as Kashmir needs azadi from India.”
 
  An American website called   also carried the story, but retracted it, apologising to Roy and its readers. Indian media watch website Newslaundry, which syndicated the story from Fair Observer, did the same. 
 
 
 
 
 Geo TV's multimedia editor Ovais Jafar says the news organisation's website has retracted the story on Roy and issued an apology. "The story in question was widely reported in local and international media and unfortunately was not scrutinised by the editorial team as it should have been. In an era where fake news often slips through the editorial sieve, we will continue to work towards further strengthening our editorial checks. We have removed the story and issued a retraction and apology," Jafar said in an email to TOI.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Postcard.news has responded to TOI's query. "We in no way want to spread fake news or falsified information. The news we reported was based on media reporting of 3 Pakistani news web portals. We have clearly quoted in the story the source of our article."
 
 "More over (sic), NO Where (sic) in the article have we mentioned that Arundhati Roy went to Kashmir," the Postcard.news team said in an email to TOI. 
 
 
 
