When Bollywood star   announced a slew of projects for the year 2017 recently on his micro-blogging page, a film titled ‘Padman’ stood out in the list. As many were wondering what a Bollywood star had to do with sanitary pads; the inventor of low-cost sanitary pad making machines,   was all smiles. After all, the film captures the arduous journey of this Coimbatore-based social entrepreneur, who was conferred the Padma Shri in 2016. Directed by  , the film will delve into trials and tribulations of the menstrual man, (as he is popularly known), who designed the innovative machine and created awareness about the unhygienic practices followed by women during menstruation in India.

 When CT got in touch with Muruganantham, he gushed. “I am quite excited about the film and want to watch it with the audience. But let me tell you, though the film draws inspiration from my life; the focus will be more on menstrual hygiene, a cause that I have been working for, all these years. It’s fantastic that a popular actor has come forward to play the role. An actress would have been nice too, but coming from a gender that doesn’t go through the problem, will be more appealing to the audience.”
 
 Interestingly, it was only recently that actress-turned-author   had featured Muruganantham’s story in her recent book. “Twinkle has been chasing me for the last one and half years, but I didn’t know who Twinkle Khanna, Akshay Kumar or Balki were. We met for the first time at a conference in London in 2015. I was told that she was the daughter of none other than the late Bollywood Superstar Rajesh Khanna. Later, she paid a visit to my house and factory in Coimbatore along with Balki,and I showed them around. It was easy to get along with Balki as we both were Tamil, and I didn’t have to struggle with my broken English. We got along really well. It was after they left that someone told me that he had seen Balki earlier. I quickly did a research on him and found out that he had made some amazing films. I also watched Airlift to know about Akshay. I liked his work in the film. I am glad that Akshay is the new Muruga.”
 
 The movie, he says, is targeted at the global audience. “All those documentaries made on my life were made by filmmakers from other countries.” Will Muruganantham guide the   team during the filmmaking process? “We have already discussed in length what needs to be featured and highlighted in the film. There will be no interference from me during shoot. But, I will be available for inputs. I want the audience to support this film, which is being made for a good cause.”
 
 
