Actor   on being in the year's biggest multi-starrers and how his faith in   paid off...

 
 It's been a different experience on every film with Vishal sir. On 'Kaminey', we had a strictly professional equation. We were both busy with our own lives at the time, but things completely changed during 'Haider'. It was like his love child of which I became a co-parent by coming on board.We pushed the boundaries right until the end, despite lack of budget and others' lack of faith in the project. The journey brought us closer.
 
 But with Rangoon, we returned to our time on 'Kaminey', as we were filming in extreme conditions. Also, 'Rangoon' is mounted on a massive scale; it was not just me and him anymore. Now, that doesn't change the fact that he's the man who discovered the actor in me, who helped me connect to aspects of my personality that I didn't know existed. The 'Rangoon' trailer releases on January 6 and I am eagerly waiting to see how people respond to it.
 
 
 
 Personally, I don't think it's a female-oriented film. The female part is extremely strong, just like in Rangoon, so are the male characters. The idea is to participate in great content. It should never be about male or female-driven roles. Everyone has a right to their own popularity on the basis of their craft. I don't try to over-complicate things. I think the media is trying to juice up stuff because it creates an interesting controversy, but the thing to focus on is that Bhansali sir is the best filmmaker in the industry and it's a great slate for me in 2017. I have a great part in Padmavati. I'm never insecure, I'm self-assured. It's great to work with talented people and my co-stars are actors who're great at balancing their work. Lastly, going by just the title is an outdated way of looking at things. In Piku, Mr Bachchan (Amitabh) was outstanding, it didn't matter what the name of the film was. I think Irrfan Khan stole the show in 'Haider' and he was barely in ten scenes.
 
 
 
 We have shot for the first 25 days. We still have over 100 days of filming left. I've been in awe of Bhansali sir and working with him is the biggest takeaway for me from this film. We've discussed this over and over again, that people have this impression that Shahid Kapoor is extremely difficult to work with and so is Sanjay Leela Bhansali. It had both of us wondering how it would actually be on the set. One month later, I can say, this has been the easiest experience for me even if it is gruelling and demanding. He is breaking new barriers.
 
 
 
 List 'lambi hoti jaa rahi hai'-arrange marriage, goody-two-shoes hubby -now I feel like growing a little rough around the edges. In the last year and a half, I've realised how happy and relaxed we are together.People on the outside were constantly wondering who Mira is? The show was a nice platform for us to get out there, to let people see us together, understand us as a couple. Everyone has responded so well to it.
 
 
 
 Last year was overwhelming. I was going through a difficult time personally. Mira was hospitalised and I had to shoot and travel. My concerns regarding her pregnancy outweighed the 'Udta Punjab' controversy.All I wanted to do at the time was be by her side.
 
  
  
 When there is so much riding on you, you go out of your way to be the best version of yourself. I had the shortest role in 'Udta Punjab', which was a four-actor film, but I was the first actor to come on-board. People told me that I had completely gone mad by agreeing to play a drug addict. I was warned that it would be terrible 'for my image'.But I didn't let these one-liners affect my choice and I chose to be bold. In the end, we had put a lot into the film. I was grateful that Abhishek Chaubey (writer-director) chose to talk about a difficult issue. The ensuing controversy helped create a lot more awareness about the drugs menace and reached to a lot more people.
 
 
 
 I love being fit. I am happy to prove that being vegetarian is great, because some people believe you need meat to look the way we do. Yes, it's difficult but I've been a vegetarian for 15 years now. I do have a sweet tooth and I binged on everything this New Year's. But now, work has taken precedence again, and I'm burning off the excesses.
 
 
 
 Nahi yaar! Papa ke saath saath hero banna bahut zyada demanding hai! I've been having sleepless nights taking care of Misha. I have no-food days now because I need to be in a certain shape for Padmavati. My character has a lot of close ups, body shots. But my priority is Misha, I want to come home to her. When you're single, you get a lot of time to hang out with friends but that has changed in the last year. It's just a phase, when things settle down, we'll be more out there as a couple.
 
 
 
 If you want to do anything beyond acting, you need gauge realistic scenarios. I've not reached that stage yet but I know I want to financially back good content. There are different ways to achieve that but it is just an idea right now. I would want to give more of myself to something I believe in.
  
  
 
