BHUBANESWAR: The assembly on Thursday witnessed uproarious scenes following BJD MLA Mahesh Sahoo's unparliamentary remarks against Prime Minister  , which had to be expunged from the proceedings. 

 Sahoo's statement set off a chain reaction with the opposition BJP storming the well of the House and despite repeated adjournments by speaker Niranjan Pujari as he attempted to restore peace, the proceedings had to be called off for the day. Trouble started in Zero Hour when Sahoo, referring to Modi's comment on Odisha's poverty at a recent election rally in Uttar Pradesh, said: "The Centre earns nearly 80,000 crore of revenue on different sources from Odisha. Half of the country gets electricity because of Odisha. A censure motion should be moved in the house condemning the Prime Minister's statement." 
 
 His speech contained derogatory remarks which was expunged by the speaker, but the BJP legislators would not relent, as they sought Sahoo's apology. As chaos unfolded, Pujari adjourned the House till 3pm. When it reassembled after lunch, the situation turned even more volatile with BJD MLA Sameer Dash terming the Prime Minister "ungrateful".
 
 Defending Sahoo's statement, Dash said: "If the PM was really concerned about Odisha's backwardness and poverty, how come the central assistance for different schemes was brought down by the  . The Centre reduced financial assistance under schemes like  ,   (PMGSY),   (BRGF) and National Health Mission. If not ungrateful, what do we call him?" 
 
 Already upset, the BJP continued to disrupt the proceedings. Even an all-party meeting, where the speaker reportedly assured the saffron party MLAs that all objectionable words against the Prime Minister would be expunged, could not end the deadlock. 
 
 As the BJP members kept on protesting, demanding of apology from the two BJD MLAs, the speaker adjourned the House till Friday. 
 
 Senior BJD leader and cabinet minister Damodar Rout, though, was unhappy with the use of derogatory words against Prime Minister Modi.
 
 "One can criticize the Prime Minister. But using unparliamentary language against him on the floor of the House is not acceptable," Damodar said.
 
