NEW DELHI: Appealing to Delhiites to elect AAP in the coming civic elections, CM   has said both Congress and BJP have left the municipal corporations in a mess and they do not have a single worthwhile project to talk about as their achievement in the past 20 years.

 In a 14-minute video, which will be used extensively by AAP during its campaign for the corporation elections, Kejriwal has appealed to the people of Delhi to “clean the city” by voting for the jadhu (broom), the party symbol.
 
 Pitching for corruption-free corporations and a garbage-free Delhi, Kejriwal has alleged that the civic bodies have failed in their most important duty, which is to keep the city clean. “People have a misconception that this is Delhi government’s duty. This is actually the work of the municipal corporations. It is embarrassing to call Delhi the country’s capital because of the state of sanitation,” Kejriwal said. “BJP and Congress have headed the corporations for the past 20 years and together they have looted the civic bodies. The corporations earn thousands of crores of rupees each year. Last year, the   gave it Rs 2,400 crore. Where is all this money? Why isn’t the city clean?”
 
 The video has also showcased works done by the government in the past two years, especially in the fields of health and education, after which Kejriwal asks whether there is any BJP or Congress government in any state that can “match up with AAP’s progress”. 
 
 Talking about corruption in the corporations, Kejriwal said that several councillors who used to move around on cycles and scooters before the elections now own big cars and houses. “The money the councillors spent on these cars and houses is our tax money. In 2006, they started construction of Rani Jhansi flyover at an estimated cost of Rs 177 crore. In the past 10 years, they have already spent Rs 724 crore on it and it is still nowhere close to completion. In comparison, the Delhi government has built five flyovers in the past two years at less than their estimated cost and before their due dates,” he said.
 
 Using the Centre-state disputes to highlight how the Delhi government was not allowed to work, Kejriwal said that his government delivered “despite” the hurdles created for it by the Modi-government. “In two years, all they say against me is that I fight. I am fighting for you. I fought to get power rates reduced. I fought to provide free water to all... When people come and tell you that Kejriwal fights, tell them that I fight for you.”
 
 
