PUNE: The techno-feasibility study, also known as detailed project report (DPR), for the proposed international airport in Purandar taluka, will start in a week's time.

 Suresh Kakani, vice-chairman and managing director of the   told TOI that the announcement of the monetary component of the compensation package for the landowners was delayed because they were awaiting clearance from the defence ministry.
 
 He said they were playing it safe, rather than risk things getting pushed back to Square One.
 
 “The techno-feasibility survey, which will take six months, will start next week,“ Kakani said. “Airports Authority of India (AAI) has cleared the proposal. As for the compensation, we don't want to announce anything until we get the defence ministry nod,“ he added.
 
 Sources said AAI, which had earlier approved the obstacle limitation survey (OLS) survey, has insisted on getting this cleared by the ministry.
 
 “We don't want to announce the compensation package only for the defence ministry to raise objections. The best thing to do is get all the clearances and then move forward. The   had announced German company Dorsch as the project consultant. Once the survey starts, details of technicalities, design etc will be finalized,“ another MADC official said.
 
 On May 15, officials from MADC and the district administration will meet defence officials to seek approval for the project. While the 2,367 hectares in question were approved by the  , Pune collector   had said earlier, the meeting on May 15 meeting will see the proposal get formal approval from the Union government.
 
 “The company (Dorsch) is in touch with the local revenue authorities belonging to the district administration and discussions are on. Once the DPR is prepared, it will go to the cabinet for approval. The monetary package can be approved immediately on or after May 15,“ an official said.
 
 The government had recently announced four options for the rehabilitation of the affected landowners in Purandar taluka, but the move was met with open scorn by the residents.
 
 They have demanded that the government withdraw the plan to contruct an airport in the region, failing which they would stage an indefinite hunger strike.
 
