NAGPUR: Early diagnosis of infants suffering from Sickle Cell Disease (SCD), congenital disorders, including hypothyroidism and adrenal hyperplasia, will be possible soon. The public health department is planning to start mass neonatal screening free of cost on a pilot basis in a few districts of the state, including the city.

 Directorate of Health Services (DHS) director Dr Satish Pawar said that mass screenings would be conducted at women’s hospitals. The project is in the planning stage, he added. “We are yet to prepare the final list of diseases for screening. However, SCD is in our consideration.”
 
 At present, mass screening of neonates is not performed at any government facility.
 
 Daga Memorial Hospital’s (women’s hospital) medical superintendent Dr   told TOI that 52-60 deliveries take place at the hospital daily, while over 15,000 take place annually.
 
 Government   (GMCH) and   and Hospital (IGMCH) do the screening only in a few suspicious cases.
 
 GMCH paediatric department head Dr CM Bokade said, “Every single newborn should be screened for Hypothyroidism and Adrenal Hyperplasia. These diseases should be treated from an early age. Unfortunately, we don’t perform mass screening at GMCH.”
 
 He said, “Talking of sickle cell, almost 14,000 deliveries take place annually at GMCH and about 10% of women have SCD. There is a 25% chances that these women may give birth to a child having SCD. Earlier, GMCH used to perform antenatal screening (fetal screening) to detect SCD in babies before they are born but the programme has been stopped; we are unable to detect all these women.”
 
  (SCSI) president Sampat Ramteke said, “Prenatal diagnosis of SCD should be given a preference so that parents could take an informed decision. Neonatal screening will also help the government to monitor these kids.
 
 However, local health authorities are yet to receive instructions on the matter. Assistant deputy director, health, Dr RS Farooqie said, “We haven’t received any instruction from the head office.”
 
