CHANDIGARH: With a higher number of political outfits taking part in these assembly elections, getting the lion share of votes may not be enough for a party to come to power. In the 2012 assembly elections too, though Congress got the highest number of votes (40.94%), it managed to win only 46 of the 117 seats in the state assembly.

 Despite registering an increase in its vote share, Congress failed to get a majority due to the damage caused by People’s Party of Punjab (PPP) and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP). Ironically, though they spoilt Congress’s chances, the two parties failed to win any seat. This time,   (AAP) has made the contest a triangular one and there are also several splinter groups in the race.
 
 Congress vote percentage had gone up from 40.94% to 40.11%, while that of SAD declined from 37.19% in 2007 to 34.75% in the last elections. Its ally   (BJP), too, saw its vote share come down from 8.21% to 7.13%. PPP’s vote share was 5.1%, while that of BSP was of 4.29%.
 
 Capt Navjeet Sandhu, a political strategist, described it as a case of too many cooks spoiling the broth. “Congress has never been short of vote share, but it will not be a criterion to win in an election that has too many players in the fray. In such a scenario, it is up to the individual candidates to better the strike rate in their constituencies,” he said.
 
 For instance, added Sandhu, BJP’s vote share in the Delhi assembly elections in 2013 was 34.1% and it had won 31 seats. However, in the 2015 election there, its vote share fell by 1.9% to 32.2%, but it was reduced to only three seats. “The strike rate will have to be sharpened by the candidates at this stage to ensure that vote share turns into a winning seat,” he said.
 
 “Loss of seats due to narrow margins has been on the mind of the party leadership and it has tried to forge alliances with BSP and CPI last year. This is another reason why the party has opened its doors to so many turncoats,” confided a Congress leader. 
 
 Narrow margin of victory could be the fallout of an election having many parties. In 2012, the lowest victory margin was 31 votes in Phillaur seat, where SAD’s Avinash Chander defeated   of Congress. In fact, there were at least ten seats where the victory margin was less than 1,000 votes and these included Ferozepur Rural, Jagraon (SC), Nihalsinghwala, Payal (SC), Fatehgarh Churian, Shutrana, Jalandhar Cantonment and Kartarpur.
 
