MANGALURU: The National Institutional Ranking Framework ( ) for the year 2017 announced by the ministry of human resource development (MHRD) on Monday has once again proved that some of the education institutions in undivided   are among the best in the country.

 Including NIT-K, Surathkal, Manipal University and Nitte University, several other educational institution offering UG and PG courses have featured in the top 100 list of NIRF in its engineering, management, colleges, universities and pharmacy sections.
 
 In overall section, Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal, bagged the 30th spot. Last year it was ranked 32. While the young university of the region —Nitte University, Mangaluru, has found itself in 83rd place with 35.50 points. 
 
 “As a young university started in 1991, it’s an achievement to be on NIRF list. We could do this due to various factors like commitment of teaching faculty, research infrastructure and constant upgradation,” expressed Vishal N Hegde, pro-chancellor (administration) of Nitte University.
 
 In the engineering section, National Institute of Technology, Karnataka has secured the 22nd place with 52.87 points while Manipal Institute of Technology, Manipal bagged 43rd place with 45.38 points. Last year, MIT, Manipal was ranked 39th place in engineering (research and teaching).
 
 In the college level where more than 45,000 colleges from across the country participated, the 130-year-old St Aloysius College, Mangaluru, bagged 44th place in the country and second place in Karnataka. “It’s the first time we have participated in performance ratings. This reward from MHRD is due to hard work of our staff in giving quality education to thousands of students from past one century,” said elated Fr Swebert D’Silva, principal of the college. Another college from Dakshina Kannada Sri D Manjunatheswara College has secured 71st place with 39.96 points.
 
  which topped last year has slipped to number 7. N G S M Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences has slipped to 27 from its last year ranking of 18. 
 
