It is quite unlikely that city students will be able to get back to their academics post the fests and Valentine’s Day celebrations now, courtesy — the   campaigns that are on in full swing. With less than 10 days remaining for the Nashik Municipal Corporation ( ) elections, sloganeering and vehicle campaigns are at its peak. As a result, students preparing for their Class 12 boards, degree college examinations and prelims of competitive exams, to be held from March, are finding it difficult to concentrate. The intensified last leg of the political campaigns are making sure that Nashikites practise their universal adult franchise rights, albeit, at the cost of students preparing for exams.

  
 
 
  Students complain of increasing door-to-door campaigns as the polling date approaches. “Each prabhag has four authorised candidates of each party and independent candidates. There are at least six major parties. So one can imagine what happens when all of them decide to show up at your house,” shares Ankita Tipare, a Std 12 student. “The doorbell just don’t stop ringing. When my mother is away, I have to answer the door bell and this is affecting my studies. The campaign songs, which are being played by tableaux or campaign vehicles are also very noisy and add on to this,” she adds. 
 
  
 
 
  Students studying at college libraries and studies have more respite than those who are studying in public libraries. “I am preparing for MPSC exam prelims which are scheduled for the next month. A political party has formed its make-shift campaign office near the library where I am studying. The sloganeering, campaign songs and public meets are very disturbing and we find it difficult to concentrate,” shares Sanjay Bangar, an administrative service aspirant.
 
  
 
 
  Abhijeet Mahale, a law student, shared, “The vehicles campaigning in different areas with speakers, tableaux of political parties playing campaign songs add on to the noise pollution ahead of the polls. It is tough for students who are preparing for board exams. They have little time in hand, and they won’t be relived from this noise pollution any time soon.”
 
 
