NAGPUR: Last year, some relatives brought a pregnant lady in labour to   (GMCH). The aggressive relatives   to perform the delivery, without even allowing them to do the  . In the process, the resident attending to the lady was manhandled.
 
 Recalling the incidence on Thursday, the resident doctor said, “I don’t think I am asking too much by demanding increased security for me. I am trying to help people, I deserve to stay in a secure atmosphere.”
 
 Talking to   reveals the real danger of violence and vandalism by patient’s relatives at government hospitals. A resident said, “Patients are bought to government hospitals from private hospitals when everybody loses hope. That’s where our role at the casualty begins.”
 
 “Majority of assaults on doctors by patient’s relatives are encountered in two situations — either it is a road accident case, where the relatives come in a state of confusion and don’t understand how to react, or if they come with political influence,” he said.
 
 Describing another incident, a lecturer told TOI, “A one-and-a-half-year-old patient was brought dead. Soon after declaring the death, patient’s relatives weren’t able to accept it and pressurized us to begin treatment. Because I did not go by their wishes, they became aggressive and one of them even pulled my collar.”
 
 Another resident confessed, “Being pressurized by relatives, at times we tend to act according to their wishes, compromising treatment protocols. It’s really unfortunate.” He added, “If the right kind of security is in place, we will be able to concentrate more on patients rather than trying to understand the psychology of relatives, and acting accordingly.”
 
 He said, “Having huge patient load at the casualty, we have to take our own decision on whether to put patient in priority or not. But every single relative feels that his or her patient is more severe than anyone else. We residents have to face the result of staff crunch at GMCH.”
 
 Lack of infrastructure at government hospitals is another reason residents face assaults. “We diagnose, classify patients and send them to respective departments. Here, at GMCH, we have one   and some 40-50 patients waiting at a time to get diagnosed. A relative, who is already under tension, gets frustrated with one look at that long queue. At times, even that one machine stops working. Now imagine what the situation would become!”
 
 Another resident added, “The ICU at medicine department has five ventilators, which are not enough. Falling short of ventilators, we feel helpless, we can’t even blame the relative for becoming aggressive in such situations. I am waiting when the system is organized and we start taking in patients depending on the infrastructure available here.” 
 
 
