KOLKATA: There will be certain changes in   on and off the   soon. A   — a consultant with major experience working with   — has submitted his report to   saying besides   at both the converging and diverging points, there should be some relocation of traffic lights and illumination that can help reduce accidents on the flyover.

 The consultant has also insisted on ensuring proper lane-driving and hinted at a possible change in the traffic flow once the other flank joining the flyover to AJC Bose Road flyover becomes operational, said sources. The report is likely to be tabled and finalized by the end of this week. The whole process might take a couple of weeks.
 
 “The findings will be discussed and certain recommendations are to be made. Unlike what got reported, we are yet to hand over any letter officially to KMDA on any recommendation. Nothing will be done without consulting the other agencies and taking them into confidence,” said an IPS officer. The police insistence on a consensus is important — they have been pushing other agencies to increase roadspace around Park Circus grounds to allow vehicles from both Beniapukur and Ballygunge to use the flyover from the Park Circus seven-point crossing. At present, no vehicle is allowed to take the flyover from this point.
 
 The spate of accidents on Maa Flyover has prompted the traffic wing of Kolkata Police to hire consultants from IIT-Kharagpur to undertake a safety audit of the elevated corridor linking AJC Bose Road flyover to EM Bypass.
 
 According to sources, the consultants have asked police to streamline traffic flow by putting up proper signage at key points. These include indications ahead of diversion points. The recommendation is to put up clear signs warning of an approaching diversion for Bypass-bound vehicles so that motorists clearly know whether to take the ramp to exit towards P C Chandra Garden or continue towards Silver Spring. Similar warnings are needed ahead of two merger points — one for Bypass-bound traffic, where the ramp from AJC Bose Road flyover merges with Maa Flyover and the other near Science City.
 
 “The signage must begin at least 300m before the actual diversion and be repeated every 100m. They must be in large fonts so they can easily be read by a motorist,” said an officer. Another problem point is the proposed diversion for Park Circus-bound cars for Congress Exhibition Road to merge with AJC Bose Road. Since this ramp is currently under construction, the diversion point is walled off.
 
 
