MUMBAI: Admissions to private and deemed   institutes across the country will now be conducted by their respective state governments on the basis of  . 

 A notification issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Friday makes it mandatory for all states to conduct common counselling for admissions to all undergraduate and postgraduate courses, even in private and deemed institutes, from 2017-18. While admissions to private institutes in Maharashtra were already under the state’s centralized process, this notification paves way for common counselling even in deemed ones. The move will bring relief to close to thousands of aspirants in the state.
 
 The government’s notification was issued in pursuance of an amendment to the Regulations on Graduate Medical Education (First Amendment) 2017, released by the  . The amendment in chapter II under the clause of ‘selection of students’ states that counselling for all admissions to   in all medical institutions shall be under the overall superintendence, direction and control of the state government.
 
 A similar notification issued by the state last year was challenged by deemed universities and the matter is pending in the HC. “Till the court orders a stay on the Centre’s notification, the government can implement it for admissions to the 2017-18 academic year,” said director Pravin Shingare, Directorate of Medical Education and Research. The state is also in the process of amending the Maharashtra Private and Unaided Professional Institutions (Regulation of admissions and fees) 2015 to bring deemed universities under their control.
 
 “Common counselling will ensure that students and parents do not have to run from one college to another to meet the admission deadline of individual institutes,” said a parent of a medical aspirant. Some of the sought-after deemed institutes in the state include three colleges run by the DY Patil group, Pravara Institute of Medical Sciences, Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences, Bharati Vidyapeeth, etc.
 
 
