PUNE: Dengue continues to wreak havoc in the city.

 A senior citizen, resident of Parvati, succumbed to dengue fever-induced complications in Pune city last week. With this, the number of fatalities due to the disease in the last three months has gone up to eight.
 
 Vijaya Deshpade (75), who lived with her family in Parvati, took ill on September 15. She suffered from a fever, with loose motions and weakness. Her condition worsened later — she developed breathlessness and altered sensorium.
 
 “She was in shock. Her liver and kidney functions had badly deranged,” said a doctor from Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital, where she was admitted on September 26.
 
 She failed the   (IgM), which is the confirmatory test for dengue. “Deshpade died due to septic shock with multi-organ failure in the early morning hours of September 26. She had no other associated illness,” a doctor said.
 
 Last week, a 77-year-old resident of Vishrantwadi succumbed to dengue shock syndrome at a hospital in Pune. His was the seventh dengue-related death reported in the city in the last three months.
 
 He had fallen ill on September 13, and breathed his last eight days later.
 
 PMC intensifies fogging with more machines
 
 In view of the rising number of dengue cases, civic health officials have decided to intensify fogging operations across city.
 
 The drive, which began on Saturday, will continue for three more days.
 
 “Fogging operations will be intensified in all the 15 wards across the city in the next three days. However, focus will be on areas from where maximum number of dengue cases have been reported,” said Kalpana Baliwant, head of the insect control department, Pune Municipal Corporation.
 
 Three high-capacity vehicle mounted fogging machines that cover an area of more than a kilometre and more than 80 small fogging machines will be pressed into service. “We have cancelled leave of staff members and they will work on Sunday as well,” Baliwant said.
 
 Dengue virus is mainly prevalent in fringe areas. Almost 60% of the cases reported this year were found among residents living in the jurisdiction of the four ward offices of Dhankawdi-Sahakarnagar, Hadapsar-Mundhwa, Ahmednagar Road-Vadgaonsheri and Bhavani Peth. 
 
 
