CHENNAI: Long after the mango season is over, pulp of the fruit in its different avatars of drinks, jams and jellies keeps the sweet after taste alive. But has your mango flavoured refreshment tasted a tad different in the past few weeks? The barely noticeable change could be because the usual mango producing districts in the state are facing a shortage due to dip in production, say pulp manufacturers, and to make up for it the fruit is being sourced from states like Andhra Pradesh.

 With drought affecting the yield of Bangalora, Neelam, Alphonsa and Himam Pasand varieties in Krishnagiri and   districts, mango pulp production has taken a hit. “This year, we finished our stocks by July 11 and we didn't have any business after that,“ said president of the Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri district pulp producers association D Mathiazhagan, adding that pulp extraction units usually got business from May to August. The extracted pulp is usually exported to countries like Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and UAE, where it is used as raw material in soft drink production.
 
 While a few say the demand from these countries have gone down, most say the supply has been affected and prices have gone down as cheaper quality fruit is being used. “Short supply of mangoes is forcing us to step down from the usual supply of 1,000 tonnes and export about 850 tonnes,“ said Mohammad Ashraf, owner of a pulp production unit. His unit, which usually sources 80% locally, now gets only 50%-60% of the fruit from Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri.
 
 Industry sources said the production of pulp has reduced by 50% this year from 1.50 lakh tonnes last year. “This year the production did not cross 75,000 tonnes,“ Mathi azhagan said. The two districts together cultivated mangoes in about 50,000 acres of land. Of the production, around 50% used to be sent to pulp indus tries for extraction. P Kannan, pulp manufacture in Krishna giri said since mangoes sourced from Andhra Pradesh don't have the same flavour, a slight difference in taste of the pulp may be felt. For instance, Ban galora (or Totapuri) is a major variety used to make pulp, but the variety sourced from other parts of the country tastes different.
 
 For the overall mango pulp produc ing industry, this is not just one off season, businesses in Krishnagiri have been dwindling over the years. A decade ago, the district had 55 mango pulp extraction units, now there are just nine.
 
 There used to be good demand among juice manufacturers for Krishnagiri pulp as the quality is on a par with international standards, say manufacturers. About 80% of the pulp produced in the district is exported to West Asia but business is not the same any more. The local   is also not good when compared past few years, he said, as people here are shifting to fresh juice.
 
 The pulp producers said   and poor mango production were responsible for the business coming down. TN had exported pulp worth Rs 750 crore in 2016. “It hasn't crossed Rs 300 crore this year,“ said an exporter “a situation not seen in the past 20 years“.
 
