KOLKATA: At least four   were conducted on   after he and   were taken to   following the Rashbehari Avenue accident. Sonika died in the hospital an hour later. But none of them was examined for the   

 Hospital officials pointed out they tested Vikram for TCDC, ESR and liver function, but not for alcohol content as they did not have the facility. But, hospital officials said, within the stipulated six hours, they did collect his blood as reserve for subsequent tests. It was a protocol the hospital followed to avoid repeat collections for further tests or confirmations. The sample was handed over to the police a day after the accident and it was sent for forensic test but the report is yet to come. 
 
 “Usually , we collect some excess blood for additional tests.Often, we need to confirm our findings and the reserve is used.We try to avoid repeat collections unless it becomes absolutely necessary . In this case, the reserve was sought by the police to check if Vikram was inebriated when his car met with an accident. It was handed over to them within 24 hours of the accident,“ said a hospital spokesperson. “Like other hospitals, we don't collect blood specifically for alcohol test, unless asked by cops,“ a hospital source added.
 The actor's clinical test, however, didn't indicate he might have been intoxicated, he said.“None felt he was under the influence of alcohol as he briefed the doctors about the accident and the injuries,“ he added.
 
 Though Vikram's injuries were not serious, the hospital reportedly advised him admission. He had a deep gash on his head, apart from injuries on the shoulder and hips. Even as Sonika received an emergency resuscitation, Vikram was administered stitches on his head. As he still bled profusely, doctors advised him admission. “But Vikram refused to get admitted immediately . He looked worried for Sonika. He signed all the papers and spoke to the doctors about her,“ said a hospital source. At 4.50am, nearly an hour after the two were brought to hospital, Sonika was declared dead. Vikram was again advised hospitalization, but he said he would wait for his family .“ At 6am, Vikram gave his consent for admission after consulting his father, who had reached. Initially , he only had pain in his head for the stitches. But he suffered shoulder pain, pain in his ears and dizziness over the next two days. His MRI and CT scan reports were normal,“ said the source.
 
 
