KOLKATA: With   upping the ante against   on Monday, the latter   and braced for caps on   Even though most chose to wait and watch, they felt that the imposition of ceilings or compulsory packages will affect profitability in the long-run, making it difficult for private healthcare to grow in Kolkata.

 Speaking at an event at Shankara Netralaya, Banerjee said hospitals needed to be more humane in their approach and should never force patients to pledge their property to pay bills. She added that there should be a limit to the amount that is charged, hinting at a cap on bills. It could be detrimental to the interests of hospitals, each of which had a different cost structure and billing pattern, said a hospital CEO. “While profit margins ought to be reasonable and we can’t lose sight of the fact that we are serving patients, it’s probably not fair to restrict charges. Even packages are often difficult to implement since treatment tends to differ or stray off course, leading to additional, unforeseen expenses. But we are in favour of the health regulatory commission for vetting bills,” he said.
 
 Some, however, felt that while charges could be lowered even at the expense of profit margins, treatment protocol could suffer. “It’s not impossible to stick to package rates fixed in advance. Other than a few exceptional cases, treatment course rarely changes dramatically. A better assessment at the time of admission can help to arrive at fixed package rates that will help patients. But we must make sure that treatment doesn’t suffer under pressure,” said AMRI Hospitals CEO Rupak Barua.
 
 Even as Apollo Gleneagles returned a patient’s fixed deposit papers after his family paid the residual bill amount on Monday, another patient’s family refused full payment to a south Kolkata hospital. When the hospital demanded the money, they pleaded that they couldn’t afford the amount. “We can neither drop our rates immediately, nor afford to forego bills at this rate. We have already offered concessions to the tune of Rs 37 lakh this month. The situation is fast going out of control. It is perhaps better to have a cap and lose a fixed amount of money than suffer random losses like this,” said an official of the hospital.
 
 The Association of Hospitals of Eastern India (AHEI) waited for the formation of the commission. But it greeted the move to review billing system. 
 
 “City hospitals operate on thinner profit margins than most other metros. Private healthcare is a fledgling industry in Bengal and needs to be protected. While charges need to be rationalized, they can’t be same for everyone,” said Alok Roy, chairman, Medica Hospitals.
 
 
