CHENNAI: There was no twist in the tale and   finally made up for what he missed by a whisker four years back. He had then gone down fighting to   in a three setter, but on Sunday experienced Agut finally defeated 20-year-old Daniil Medvedev from Russia and finally the   glory was his. The confident Agut prevailed over Medvedev 6-3, 6-4 in a match that lasted for an hour and 15 minutes. 

 For Agut the road to the final was not an easy one. He held on against Milkail Youzhny to take a three setter but made it look easy in the semifinals. But the Spaniard clearly saved the best for the last. He put on an aggressive show giving no room to his opponent for a break point. Instead he rattled Medvedev reading his game perfectly. He took advantage of Medvedev's inability to hit low, keeping his shots mostly flat thus forcing the Russian into committing errors. He covered the court well and came up with successive forehand winners.
 
 "I think I played a complete match today. This was a great start to the tournament. Whenever I had the option I was trying to make him move and then he started missing a lot of first serves and that helped," said the Spaniard.
 
 Medvedev's fairytale at the tournament fell short of a befitting ending on Sunday. He avoided running into world No 6 Marin Cilic in the quarters after Jozef Kovalik ousted the Croat in the second round. But he could not emulate the same success against the big-serving Medvedev. But the main drama waited for the semifinals when Medvedev said a match point to come out on top against Dudi Sela. But luck was not on his side on Sunday.
 
 "He was clearly the better player today and he was very consistent today. He played aggressive tennis and he was very intelligent," Medvedev said after the match.
 
 But even though he has lost the tournament, this was probably the best week of his career till now. "If anyone had told me at the beginning of the week that I would be playing my first ATP final I wouldn't have believed him. I wouldn't care if I lost the final 6-0, 6-0 I was happy to be a part of it. My ranking has shot up from 99 to the 60s after the final and I couldn't have asked for more."
 
 He began well though hitting a couple of aces in his first service game but Agut took the advantage of a double fault and an unforced error from Medvedev in the fourth game to go one break up after a mishit and a double fault saw him slip to 0-40. He stopped Agut from breaking him again in the sixth game after Medvedev squandered two service points after hitting the net but made up with two back-to-back aces and a backhand down the line to make it 4-2. But he could not make any inroads and the set was Agut's.
 
 The second set went on serve for a while and after Medvedev's heroics on in the semifinals it was not unlikely of him to stage a comeback in this set. But on Sunday too many unforced errors restricted his fightback. The set went on serve for a while and Medvedev did well to hold on to the next point with an amazing one-handed forehand that landed just inside the line. But it was not enough to change the match. Things became worse for him when it looked like he had pulled a muscle in his right leg. He looked in pain and his movement became restricted. It was over for him and he failed to win a single point after that. Agut broke him in the ninth game with a forehand winner and rounded off another love game before throwing a punch in the air and shouting 'Vamos'. Glory was finally his.
 
