‘To travel is to live’ Rumi said. Travelling is about meeting strangers and finding a connect with every person. Blood and flesh can be a stranger but the soul will always be a known stranger. With this thought I looked for an auto in Delhi to visit the shrine of Hazrat   in order to pay my venerations to the world renowned  .

 The scorching summers of Delhi and the chilly winters of the capital is always a problem. The rush, the commutation, the pollution is irksome. The capital of the country has problems in galore but then again Delhi is dilli for me. To explore Delhi in an auto has its own bliss but the reluctant autowalas of Delhi makes it a blissful experience combined with pain. It was 
 
 
 He was weak and fragile, looked older than his age. The longevity of his hardships was clearly visible on his pale face. It is always interesting to bring Delhi autowaalas into a dialogue; you get to know the City of the Jinn deeply. "With the advent of OLA, auto business is seriously getting affected, OLA attempted to invade Mumbai first, but now it’s ruling Delhi’s commutation industry, very difficult to make both ends meet even, leave aside savings.” He kept on telling his travesties of life. I enquired further, "Chacha, aur bacche?” There are three sons, they are not married. I worked day and night in order to get them married and settled but they kept on fighting with each other over whatever property I possessed. “Wasting time is their way of life, one should avoid this mentality” I thought he must be an educated man. I kept on listening to his struggles. While we crossed Ashram bridge, which is supposed to be jam packed with vehicles all around, he said, “Son, I must have hurt somebody’s heart that is why life is so hard on me that even my next generation is not intact. I failed as a father.” His tears began to flow out. My heart skips a beat listening to this tragedy. I wonder very few tragedies can be more tragic than that of a failed father.
 
 Finally we arrived, I gave him Rs 100, he returned Rs 20. While walking towards the shrine I looked back. The autowala was wiping his tears with his maroon muffler. I smiled at him and he waved his hand. His face was not as pale as before he narrated the story. He was smiling. For me, it was very difficult to fathom the spine chilling conversation while walking towards the shrine. I wondered why the man returned Rs 20? Why his face was not pale anymore? I entered into the periphery of the shrine. I saw a banner on which it was written ‘lending an ear to others’ travesties with clean heart without judging is a service to mankind’.
 
 Hazrat Nizamuddin saying is “Dusron ke dukhon ko sun ke batiya liya kero” I felt like I found answer to my wandering mind. 
 
 
 
 
