LUCKNOW: Reiterating that Samajwadi Party’s core Yadav vote bank was going to split between the warring camps of Akhilesh and his uncle Shivpal Yadav in UP assembly elections, BSP chief   placed herself squarely against the BJP on Tuesday. 

 Citing Modi’s Monday speech in Lucknow where he said the assembly election in the state was not a question of winning or losing but “of responsibility”, Mayawati said it showed BJP had already conceded defeat. “Which party is not responsible? All of them are and they are all contesting to win,” she said, adding that the ‘noor’ (grace) has suddenly vanished from the face of both Modi and BJP national president Amit Shah.
 
 The BSP boss said when Modi delivered his speech on December 31, people expected sops and promises. “Farmers expected a loan waiver. Poor expected Rs 15 lakh each as promised during Lok Sabha elections...a two-room house...but they were disappointed,” she said. 
 
 “PM should have told people what benefit   brought, how much black money was seized and who were the corrupt. But that did not happen,” she said, adding that BJP government has completed two-and-a-half years but has not gone beyond foundation laying. 
 
 Terming Modi’s remark that BSP was trying to save its money as “mischievous”, Mayawati said BSP had only saved hard-earned money of its workers to carry forward its Dalit movement and for their emancipation. She dared BJP to disclose where it parked its money post note-ban and accused the saffron brigade of getting money from “fake members”, essentially the big corporate houses. 
 
 Accusing the BJP of being hands in glove with the  , Mayawati said this was precisely why Modi remained silent on the family feud of the ruling party. She said there were instances when state witnessed political and administrative turmoil and required imposition of President rule. “But that was never done,” the former UP chief minister said.
 
 Mayawati appealed to Muslims not to waste their votes on a “parivarwadi (dynastic) party” like Congress and bring BSP to power with absolute majority. She said the BJP or other parties cannot win Dalits by just by invoking Ambedkar or dining with them. “Dalits will not forget the discrimination they have been facing and incidents like suicide of Dalit scholar Rohith Vemula, flogging of Dalits in Una and Dayashankar Singh (the BJP leader compared Mayawati to a prostitute) issue are still afresh in their minds,” she said, adding that Dalits don’t want sympathy but action against those who exploited them.
 
 
