BENGALURU: Upping the ante in the ongoing flag controversy,   said on Wednesday that Karnataka has complete freedom to have its own flag and that it won't hurt the unity and integrity of the country in anyway.

 “Only because a state has a flag, it doesn't mean it will affect the unity of the country. There is no basis for such charges. There are several countries whose states have separate flags. Brazil's all the 28 states have flags, and the case is also similar to Germany, has it affected the unity of those countries,“ Siddaramaiah said.
 
 If the committee set up recommends a separate flag, the procedure to make it official may be fairly simple. Legal and constitutional experts say all that Karnataka needs is an executive order to create an official flag.
 
 “An executive order is enough to make the flag official. However, to frame rules to punish those who dishonour such a flag, the state will need to enact a new law,“ said Supreme Court (SC) advocate KV Dhananjay.
 
 His interpretation that neither the Constitution nor the Flag Code of India, 2002, prohibits states from having their own flags was echoed by SC advocate Sanjay Hegde.
 
 “States have sovereignty, however, India is a sovereign state, which means two symbols cannot be of equal stature. The national flag assumes more importance,“ Dhananjaya said. Former minister and BJP leader DB Chandre Gowda, while stating that there was no need for a separate flag, said that law and constitutional provisions do not object to states having one.
 
 “Technically, an executive order approved by the Cabinet is enough to make a flag offi cial. There is no need of passing a resolution in the assembly. If a cabinet member wants it to be discussed or debated on the floor of the house, he can propose it, but it will be the cabinet chairperson's (CM) discretion,“ Gowda said.
 
 Former Lok Sabha secretary general and constitutional expert Subhash C Kashyap, however, argued that the Constitution had no provision for states having a separate flag. “The preamble says 'we the people of India', unlike the US constitution which says we the people of the US', so it is one nation and one citizenship, and it doesn't allow a state to have a flag,“ he said.
 
 He further pointed out: “Article 51 of the Constitution says that every citizen has to  , emblem and the anthem. Nowhere does it mention that states can have their flag.“
 
 
 
 
 Karnataka already has a state anthem, which it notified 13 years ago. All that the government did to declare 'Jaya Bharata Jananiya Tanujate', penned by Kuvempu, as the state anthem was to pass an executive order (with cabinet approval) on January 6, 2004. DB Chandre Gowda, the then law and parliamentary affairs minister, said: “It was a simple procedure. We notified the executive order declaring the song as the state anthem.The only thing the cabinet discussed was insertion of one word into the poem.“ 
 
