 is the perfect example of a beauty with brains. A model and actress, she is also a research scientist who is pursuing a PhD in stem cell biology. Having largely worked in Tamil and   films, Vidya is excited about her   film debut, Bangaara s/o Bangarada Manushya, produced by Jayanna Combines. Ahead of its release, she speaks to us about the movie and more…

 
 
 I am trying to do whatever is possible and give my best in it all. I do plan on becoming a full-time scientist one day, but I want to focus on movies for the next 2-3 years. I will wait and see what the future has in store, but for now, I want to continue doing both.
 
 
 
 There was an audition for the movie and Yogi (G Raj, director) sir selected me. I am very fortunate to have bagged this film and am eagerly awaiting and excited about the release.
 
 
 
 Initially, during the first 2-3 days, I found it little difficult to mouth dialogues in Kannada, but Yogi sir, Shivaraj sir ( ) and everyone on the set helped me out, and towards the end of the shoot, I could speak Kannada well. Now, Kannada swalpa swalpa barutte.
 
 
 
 It was great to work with Shivaraj sir — he’s an amazing person. He was very encouraging and patient when I had trouble with the language. He was kind and has been very supportive. He gets involved in every aspect of movie making. While we were shooting, he would never go to the caravan and chose to be with the crew instead. He inspires a lot of people. I learnt professionalism and dedication just by watching him.
 
 
 
 In the film, I play a bubbly girl who worked abroad, but something changes when she comes back to India and sees the plight of the farmers. I had a very pleasant and positive experience while working on this film. There was so much love and professionalism on the set. We shot at different locations, like Italy and Milan, and travelling together was a lot of fun. Everyone on the set used to pull my leg all the time. This film has been one my best experiences of my movie career.
 
 
 
 My first experience in the Kannada film industry has been awesome, so I am looking forward to doing more films here. I feel like I am here to stay. I have got a few offers, but I am waiting for Bangaara s/o Bangarada Manushya to release so that I can choose the best.
 
