PUNE: Septuagenarian Uttam Bhumkar, who has served the   for over 50 years, is a worried man.

 He fears Narendra Modi’s slogan of “Congress Mukta Bharat” might soon became a reality. Pune could be the first city to realize the Prime Minister’s dream, he feels.
 
 “I never imagined the Congress, which ruled the roost in Pune and national politics, would see this day. Pune Congress leaders like Kakasaheb Gadgil, Keshavrao Jedhe and Shankarrao More dominated the state and national politics and today, we are struggling to get double-digit number in the Pune Municipal Corporation and in Pimpri Chinchwad we have not got a single seat. What can be worse than this?” asks an agitated Bhumkar, handling the party’s office work since 1980. He observes that the party has lost connect with masses and that is the main reason for the debacle.
 
 While Bhumkar recalled the glorious years of the party in the Congress Bhavan on Friday, the office built in 1940 sported a deserted look.
 
 The city unit chief of the Congress, Ramesh Bagwe, closed himself in a room with a couple of office-bearers to discuss the fallout of the   results. Some youths were waiting in his office for payment for the work done during the campaign.
 
 Offices of once bustling Seva Dal and Youth Wing were locked. The city Congress office in Shivajinagar was once the headquarters of city politics.
 
 In the first general elections in 1951-52, Kakasaheb Gadgil was elected as Pune MP and he became a minister in Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru’s first cabinet. After the formation of Pune Municipal Corporation in 1950, except a few years’ rule of Nagri Sanghatana, the Congress remained in power till the NCP became a viable option in 2007. In 1957, the Congress did not contest the civic elections owing to anti-Congress sentiments against the backdrop of Samyukta Maharashtra movement.
 
 Nagri Sanghatana won majority of the seats and won the post of the mayor. But it started losing its relevance with political parties coming into the picture in later years and encouraging defection in Sanghatana. Many Sanghatana members joined the Congress.
 
 Since 1980, Congress ruled the civic politics till the NCP emerged as a strong option in the 2007 elections.
 
 Senior party leaders admit that late MP   and in recent times, Suresh Kalmadi, were the only mass leaders in the city after 1980s. Initially,  , when he was in the Congress, pitted his then close aide Kalmadi against Vitthalrao. Kalmadi ensured to end the Gadgil era in Pune politics. But after the formation of the NCP, Pawar’s nephew took on Kalmadi to control Pune.
 
 Political feud between Ajit Pawar and Suresh Kalmadi turned fierce when the later sensed he was losing grip in the city politics and NCP was making a dent in the Congress’ vote bank. After the party suspended Kalmadi following his arrest in the multi-crore CWG scam, the city Congress failed to revitalize itself.
 
 “The situation is really serious. We expected more seats in Pune as we have a network here. We could have performed slightly better. All state leaders are meeting on Saturday to discuss the debacle in Pune and other municipal corporations,” former chief minister Prithviraj Chavan told TOI.
 
 Vishwajeet Kadam supporters allege that the city Congress leaders were not allowing him to work freely because they fear he will take over the party reins. But Kadam just said, “We have to introspect and go back to people and party workers to understand what went wrong. The situation is serious for the party and we need to find a way to reorganize ourselves.”
 
 A senior leader said requesting anonymity, “The Congress will have to remove deadwood leaders, who have no mass base. The party is full of such leaders. They are seen in the party office only when the state and central leaders are in the city. These leaders, who have entered the Legislative Council, have no grassroots connect and the party must ask them to step down and allow a new leadership to emerge.”
 
 The city Congress chief, Ramesh Bagwe, put up a brave face, though. “The Congress has faced many defeats and we are confident that we will bounce back,” he said.
 
 Bagwe and his colleagues are groping in dark when it comes to reviving the party, though.
 
 
