THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Though a drought situation has slightly dampened the agriculture department's ambitious market intervention programme 'Vishukkani', to ensure supply of safe-to-eat vegetables this Vishu, minister   is hopeful that the launch of ' ' brand of vegetables will be a success.

 Vegetable cultivation, with government's GAP (good agriculture practice) certification, has been initiated in around 10,000 hectares of land across the state through 446 farmers' clusters, and the harvest is expected to begin in the first week of April. “The 'Kerala Organic' vegetables will be sold through department eco-shops and 1,086 `Vishukkani' stalls to be set up on April 12 and 13,“ he said.
 
 The department's market intervention experiment last year named 'Onasamridhi' had witnessed sale of 4,800 metric tonnes of vegetables over five days, of which 3,400 metric tonnes were state's own produce. “ As Vishu demands just two days of supply , we will not be requiring such a huge volume,“ he said.
 
 However, the vegetable cultivation in the state will not suffice to meet the Vishu requirement as Kerala grows only around 15 types of vegetables out of 50 types in demand. As the state depends on neighbouring states for the majority of vegetables, the department has formed four zonal committees (Kozhikode, Thrissur, Ernakulam and Thiruvananthapuram) to purchase `safe-to-eat' vegetables from Karnataka and Tamil Nadu.
 
 “The teams comprising officials of agriculture department, Vegetables and Fruits Promotion Council Keralam (VFPCK) and Kerala State Horticultural Products Development Corporation (Horticorp) will ensure that the state procure safe-to-eat vegetables from neighbouring states,“ said Horticorp chairman Vinayan. The demand will be more in the Malabar region. The Kozhikode committee has already visited a vegetable farm under a big farmers' cluster in Karnataka `which follows GAP', for procurement, he said.
 
 The Horticorp, the chairman said, has made arrangements to facilitate centralized procurement of vegetables from farmers in the state. “We will procure produce by our own farmers at a price little higher. We will also open additional temporary stalls for selling them. The Horticorp has envisaged a comprehensive plan for procurement and distribution of vegetables cultivated by farmers in the state, and this Vishu will be the launching pad for such a plan.“
 
