Nagpur:   faces a huge problem of   in   which affects the overall cotton quality in the market. This is mainly because of the faulty collection system and the large number of farmers and households involved in the process. Thus a good collection system with mechanical picking can bring uniform quality of bales. The country needs to develop a strategy for not just increasing the productivity but also the quality of cotton.

 These issues were raised here at the inaugural session of the three day seventh Asian Cotton Research and Development Network (ASRDN) meeting organized jointly by the Indian Society for Cotton Improvement (ISCI), Mumbai in collaboration with the International Cotton Advisory Committee (ICAC), Washington, Central Institute for Cotton Research (CICR) and the central Institute for Research on Cotton Technology (CIRCOT).
 
 Terry Townsend, former executive director of ICAC said that technology was the key to improve the quality of the material. He stressed on the need to make cotton a more competitive product. He said that natural fibres should be given importance over polyester. In India the consumption of cotton versus polyester was 60:40% while world over it was 25% cotton and 75% polyester.
 
 Keshav Kranthi, head technical information section ICAC and former CICR director explained the genesis of the meeting and how it will strive to prepare a road map for doubling farmers’ income and improve fibre quality. He urged cotton researchers to develop ‘Brand India’ by developing desi good quality native arboretum cotton.
 
 Suresh Kotak, chairman Kotak Commodities enumerated how cotton has impacted civilization and contributed to prosperity of nations. Agriculture scientist C D Mayee informed that after the recent hurricane the cotton in US was destroyed and the country is striving to buy cotton from India which will benefit Indian farmers. However, quality of cotton and contaminants are major concerns which demand the attention of researchers. Deputy Director General (DDG) of Crop Sciences Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) A K Singh explained that there is a need to bring innovations in water and chemical usage to transform Indian agriculture.
 
 Speakers pointed out that cotton growing nations of Asia are facing several challenges such as predominance of small holder production systems, low level of mechanization, vulnerability to climate change/variability, rising production costs cutting profit margins, key pests developing resistance to major insecticides, soil degradation, dwindling agro-biodiversity, restricted access to novel technologies due to IPR related issues, poor fibre quality, lack of appropriate ginning technology to name a few. Speakers said that quality of cotton was not as bad as it is being projected internationally.
 
 P G Patil, CIRCOT director gave the welcome address and V N Waghmare, the acting CICR director proposed vote of thanks. R K Singh, Additional Director General (commercial crops) was also present on the occasion.
 
 
