THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: State police chief   has begun streamlining the department with the transfer of a   who used to handle a sensitive confidential section at the  . 

 The officer in charge of the confidential section (also known as T-section) is usually a pick of the state police chief. Within a few days of assuming charge, Senkumar has shunted out junior superintendent V S Kumari Beena who was appointed by  , and has appointed Suresh Krishna in her place as the chief of the secretive police wing. 
 
 The T-section handles all sensitive files, including those pertaining to officials up to the level of ADGPs. Meanwhile, Beena approached the additional chief secretary complaining against her transfer. She alleged that while there government rules stipulate that a person can remain in a post for a minimum period of one year, she has been shunted out in just about 10 months. 
 
 According to sources in the police headquarters, the head of the T-section liaise directly with the police chief on a day-to-day basis and has to enjoy his complete confidence. 
 
 "The officer is like a confidential assistant to the police chief who deals with various sensitive materials on which the police chief has to make his decisions. All the police chiefs pick such officers from among those at the police headquarters with whom they have either worked earlier or have full trust on," sources said. 
 
 Sources also denied that Senkumar has begun cancelling the orders issued by Behera. "Nothing of that sort has begun. The only decision taken was to initiate an inquiry on a complaint of   against Koduvally MLA Karat Razaq. The MLA's complaint was pending at the police headquarters for the last five months," sources said. 
 
 Senkumar also have initiated steps to route the answers for the assembly questions about the police only through him to prevent duplicity of answers, most of which, are contradictory and lands the government in a soup. 
 
 According to sources, the answers are fetched from respective police units through three routes- from the police headquarters, from the intelligence department and occasionally from the state crime records bureau. Though the answers from the source to all the three divisions are the same, the data is reworked at the respective bodies and the final answers end up many times in contradicting each other. 
 
 The first order issued by Senkumar after assuming charge was with regards to the questions from the assembly, in which he said the answers were being prepared without applying mind and without statistics to support them.
 
 Meanwhile, the monthly crime conference, chaired by the state police chief, will be held on May 16, which was originally scheduled for May 9. The meeting will discuss the existing law and order situation in the state.
 
