AHMEDABAD: Gujarat University’s system of preferring students from its own colleges for admission to postgraduate medical courses has once again been dragged to the  . On Tuesday, some students challenged the applicability of preference for admission in   for the academic year 2017-18. On October 10 last year, GU had taken a decision to continue with the system of preference. Students from other universities had unsuccessfully challenged this decision before the HC, and last month, the HC had upheld GU’s decision. 

 But, this year, the scenario has changed with the state government deciding to follow guidelines of   (MCI), and students have once again gone to court.
 
 One set of petitioners are MBBS graduates from colleges affiliated to GU. They are opposing the state government’s decision of Common Counselling Rule by treating GU and non-GU students equally, as required by MCI guidelines. They have demanded that the university should give preference to them, because the validity of these norms was upheld by the high court last month.
 
 The other set of litigants are students who graduated from other universities and are currently seeking admission in PG medical courses in GU. They are supporting the state government’s stand for centralized common admission for all students, because the university is relying on a student’s score in NEET-PG exam (National Eligibility cum Entrance Test for Post-Graduate medical courses). 
 
 On September 22, 2016, the   had ordered that admission in PG courses should be done only via centralized systems in respective states. The bench headed by Chief Justice   is likely to hear the case on Wednesday, as the state government on Tuesday sought time to respond to the petitions.
 
 Before SC's intervention, all universities — including GU — had control over admission to 50% of the seats in PG medical courses and used to give preference to their own students over students from other universities. For medical students, the issue is important because GU has a share of about 60% of the total PG medical seats available in Gujarat. 
 
