New Delhi: For nearly two months now, Amita Singh and her friend Pushpendra Singh have been desperately looking for a   on his left foreleg in Noida.

 The dog doesn’t belong to either of the Singhs but they have been searching for it in every possible place: the sectors close to his habitat, the lanes and roads nearby, the animal care places, the works. They have even left their phone numbers with the hawkers, just in case. Last Saturday after Friendicoes, the capital’s well-known animal shelter, posted Amita’s cri de coeur on its Facebook page, there was a lead. But there’s no happy ending yet.
 
 At the heart of the Singhs’ search lies a touching tale of love, loss and regret. The canine is a desi stray that Amita had spotted outside City Center metro station, the last stop on the Blue Line in Noida, on Nov 11. “He was in pain and unable to move. A woman selling tea told me that he had been hit by a car,” Amita told TOI on phone.
 
 The 30-year-old HR professional — also a serious dog lover — was on her way to office but decided to take him to the hospital. It wasn’t easy. The dog winced and whined in pain at touch. But soon, a natural bond developed between the two as the canine hobbled trustingly to a waiting auto. Blackie, as he was christened later, was taken to a pet hospital in Sector 72.
 
 He received oral medication first. The x-ray showed a broken bone. Being a big dog, he had to be sedated, said Amita. Then the vet cast the leg in plaster. Blackie spent the next two days at the hospital. Overall expenses: Rs 2,500, including Rs 500 per day for the boarding. The plaster was to be taken off after three weeks.
 
 “Amita, Sutapa Hati, who’s a friend of ours, and I feed about 15-20 strays. In fact, Amita ends up spending about Rs 5,000 every month from her salary on their medicine,” says Pushpendra, whose father is a retired veterinarian in Aligarh.
 
 But this was a new situation for them. The couple tried calling the animal care centres they had heard of but couldn’t get through. Veterinarian Rahul Chaudhary, who treated the dog, suggested that they should leave Blackie where they had found him. “It is easier for strays to adjust themselves in their natural habitat,” he said.
 
 They dropped off the canine outside City Centre metro station. “I saw him again the next day,” says Amita. But Blackie has been missing ever since. “We looked for him in and around the Metro station, Sector 34, Sector 49 and Sector 50 on motorbike and in car. We have been at these places at different hours: 11 am, 2.30 pm, 5 pm, even 9.30pm. Even last weekend we went about in search for him,” says Pushpendra, a digital marketing professional.
 
 Hope suddenly floated after Friendicoes put out a Facebook post headlined – Help Amita Find This Dog – on January 14. “In the last two months on our suggestion she has looked for that dog in Noida SPCA, KAW and Nirvana as well as around the area where she had left the dog but has not managed to track the dog. In case you have any leads or know where this dog might be, please call Amita.”
 
 The post received over 140 shares. Among those who commented was Prerna Thakur. “Hi Amita! I found him outside the petrol pump, near Theos. I fed him there for 4 days since he was not able to move much. I haven’t been able to locate him since then. But I am going to the same place tomorrow to locate him,” she posted.
 
 “She recognised him by the cast on his leg. She had seen Blackie in the third week of December. We have been to the place, spoken to people nearby but there’s no further breakthrough,” says Amita, who has also paid for the treatment of three other injured pups since then.
 
 There’s no break in the routine for the searchers. Like parents looking for a missing child, the Singhs have stuck to their task. Sometimes Amita wonders if she made the right decision in leaving the canine out there at the City Center. There’s a sense of regret but the desire to reunite with Blackie is stronger. “Perhaps, if this story is published, we will get another lead,” she said.
 
 This heart-warming story of humans being a dog’s best friend could yet have a happy ending.
 
