VISAKHAPATNAM: The port city swept up two places in the country's  ,  , notching up third position as compared to fifth position in 2016 survey. 

 Vizag pulled a score of 1797 out of 2000 in the open competition to assess the sanitary condition of Indian cities.
 
 What perhaps helped catapult the city to the third slot was its performance on parametres like Municipal Self Declaration (869 marks), Citizen Feedback & Swachhta App (469 marks) and Solid Waste Processing & Disposal (149 marks). But Vizag was pipped to the top slot by Indore and Bhopal.
 
 "Just an 11 mark difference pushed us to the third rank as compared to the first ranker," said Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation special officer Pravin Kumar, adding they would put their best foot forward next year.
 
 Describing it as a proud moment, GVMC commissioner M Hari Narayanan said it was the collective effort of each stakeholder, right from the sanitary worker to the officer cadre as well as citizens that kept the city spick n' span and helped it race to the top three in the competition.
 
 What made this year's ranking more special was that last year Vizag scored 5th rank when competition was limited to nearly 73 cities, but this time it improved its position despite over 430 cities participating in the contest, GVMC commissioner said.
 
 The GVMC commissioner also attributed the good standing of the city to the responsible role played by citizens by sending authentic feedback to the Union ministry of urban development.
 
 Pointing out that Vizag registered among the highest citizen participation in sending feedback on their local body by the February 28, the deadline to participate in the survey. As per data available on the   website, 1,92,651 Vizagites sent their feedback for the survey.
 
 Citizens of the participating cities had to send their feedback through various channels such as the  , 1969 toll free helpline number or by physically visiting the local body offices.
 
 "Initially Vizag was lagging behind in citizen participation, but continuous efforts by the corporation in organising awareness camps and passing on information through various channels, including media, helped improve participation levels in the last two weeks. This and our sincere efforts towards maintaining cleanliness in the city helped us bag 3rd rank," the civic chief told TOI.
 
