In a quick trip to Bengaluru, Bollywood’s enfant terrible   visited an engineering college, interacted with students and then made time for a quick press conference. We caught up with her on the sidelines for a chat about her latest film,  , her new video with AIB and the threat to freedom of speech in Bengaluru. Excerpts...

 
 Simran to me is an honest portrayal of a migrant’s life. This remains the most important aspect of the film, because in  , the NRI life is very coloured with songs and dances. Also, because Hansal sir has been a migrant, because he has lived in Fiji, America and many places, he has decided to do a portrayal of the community. And, of course, in the centre of it is this girl, who is a divorcee and it is about her aspirations and what she seeks. 
 
 
 It wouldn’t be genuine if I talk about my experience. I had money and I was staying in a good apartment. I was in the best of places. So, my experience was different. We are talking about people who left India 20-30 years ago and they were the minority there, where the undercurrent of insecurity is always there. This is the conflict of longing and belonging. 
 
 
 This was a very simple and basic process. I can’t say there was an idea and it happened in this way. It was just that the producers of Simran came with AIB and they said they should be some sort of sketch with me or a podcast interview. This was when   (from AIB) told me that they have a song for me, which they had written a long time ago and that they didn't approach me because they were unsure how I would react. But, now since we wanted to do something together, they had this ready and asked I we could shoot this. They told me this is their sketch about the industry and it was funny. I believe that things are funny if there is some percentage of truth in it and it is, obviously, exaggerated. We all know these things are true and we see it everyday. While he was reading the lines out I was literally rolling on the floor laughing. Everyone in my team also was like we have to do this because it is damn funny. 
 
 
 Fear is human nature. But one has to conquer it and rise above them. I have put a lot at stake to have an independent voice. For me, the only definition of success is an independent voice and the freedom of speech. And, today, if I begin to feel if someone’s ego might get hurt or what about my image and the career that I have or the projects that I might lose, they are just petty fears. Though, there are big ones also, like you feel protective about your family and of yourself. But, somewhere I find that balance and I don't go all out, because people would go crazy if I did. It is my own inner voice that draws the line. Otherwise you would have news channels going ‘Ek aur dhamaka Kangana ka’, so I have to go slow with voicing my opinion. The funniest part is that these are all just matter of fact. For instance, take the AIB video — no one can point a finger and say it is made up. Of course it is exaggerated. No one stands waiting for the hero with a thali, but the emotion is the same. 
 
 
