New Delhi: Chief minister   may have to face a second defamation case after the Delhi high court on Thursday slammed as “scandalous” some remarks his lawyer   have made against  .

 “If such allegations have been made on instructions of the defendant number 1 (Kejriwal), then no point in continuing with cross-examination of the plaintiff (Arun Jaitley) any more. Let the defendant make good his allegations first. Let him step into the box,” Justice Manmohan said after Jaitley’s lawyers brought up the issue before him.
 
 The defamatory remarks were made by the senior lawyer during the Union finance minister’s cross-examination in a civil defamation suit filed by the BJP leader.
 
 Appearing for Jaitley, senior advocates   demanded a clarification from Kejriwal if he had instructed Jethmalani to use the insulting term against the minister — as claimed by Jethmalani in the court on Thursday — or the remarks were made by the veteran lawyer on his own.
 
 Nayar argued that if Kejriwal had indeed asked Jethmalani to insult the minister, Jaitley would seek additional aggravated damages of Rs 10 crore from him.
 
 Justice Manmohan frowned upon the language used during the cross-examination and said when a person had filed a defamation case, he “cannot be further defamed in this manner”.
 
 “What is to be done when such   remarks are made? It’s unpleasant. Cross should be carried out in accordance with law,” the judge said, pointing out that if the similar manner of cross-examination is carried in a rape case, it would amount to the survivor being subjected to further ordeal, that too in court.
 
 The court then said that if Jaitley’s lawyers filed an application with regard to the adverse remarks made against him by Jethmalani, it would look into the matter.
 
 On Wednesday, Jethmalani called Jaitley a “crook” before joint registrar Deepali Sharma when the minister was being cross-examined in the Rs 10-crore civil defamation case filed by him against Kejriwal and five other AAP leaders.
 
 The term angered Jaitley and heated exchange followed between the duo and between their legal teams, forcing the court to adjourn the fourth round of cross-examination for July 28 and 30.
 
 Along with Kejriwal, AAP’s Raghav Chadha, Kumar Vishwas, Ashutosh, Sanjay Singh and Deepak Bajpai are also facing a criminal defamation complaint filed by Jaitley on the same issue.
 
 Thursday’s hearing before Justice Manmohan was on an application moved by Chadha for making amendments in his written submission filed in reply to Jaitley’s plea.
 
 While sending the amendment application to the bench, which was earlier hearing the case, Justice Manmohan made known his displeasure at the language used during Wednesday’s cross-examination.
 
