Mumbai: The largest European   group  , which made big bucks by controlling Formula One ( ) for a decade, is set to open an India office tracking rising buyout opportunities in the world’s fastest growing major economy. CVC, with more than $71 billion in assets under management, is relocating its senior managing director Siddharth Patel to Mumbai as part of the India build-up plan, besides hiring a senior executive from  , three people directly familiar with the matter said.

 Apollo Global Management (2011) and KKR & Co (2009) were the last big American buyout funds to open India offices, while European private markets investor Partners Group AG entered the country in 2014. CVC, which is in the midst of raising a $15-billion seventh fund, will also compete with its other American peers Carlyle, Blackstone and TPG to drive consolidation and trigger buyouts in a transforming Asian market. Among the top 10 private equity asset managers globally, CVC also looks at large minority investments that are $150 million and more.
 
 The London-based private equity giant has a history of backing management buyouts (MBOs) in Europe and Asia, which holds promise in India where several family-run enterprises have professionalised operations and are grappling with succession worries. CVC Capital became an independent asset manager when the European unit of Citigroup Venture capital was spun out three decades ago. Its global list of buyouts included luggage maker Samsonite, beauty retailer Douglas AG and pet retailer Petco Animal Services among others.
 
 CVC sold motor sports business F1 to Liberty Media in a $4.5-billion deal last year, netting 450% return on a $1-billion stake purchased a decade ago. The share-cum-cash sale of what was once considered the riskiest private equity investment transformed CVC into a top-league buyout firm, said a Bloomberg report. 
 
 Siddharth Patel — who leads investments in telecom, media and technology sectors — will steer the firm’s India entry. He joined CVC from UK rival Apax Partners seven years ago, and was also involved with the latter’s foray into India nine years ago. When contacted, CVC Capital said it would not comment on the India entry as of now, and was willing to engage only when “we are up and running”. Sources cited earlier in this report said CVC was also likely to rope in a senior principal from General Atlantic’s Mumbai office currently. 
 
 The entry of CVC comes at a time when fortunes of the private equity are recovering after an abysmal report card of profits until recently. Long-term risk investors have poured about $120 billion into India in the last two decades, with no significant returns reaped on most of these investments. But nearly $20-billion exits in the past two calendar years have revved up the interest of private equity sponsors — known as limited partners (LPs) in industry parlance — such as pension plans, university endowments and sovereign wealth managers. Some like Canadian Pension Plan Investment Board and CDPQ have scaled up direct investments, though mostly across income-earning asset classes in infrastructure and real estate.PE giants such as KKR & Co, Carlyle and Blackstone are in the reckoning to write larger cheques as Indian businesses open up to discuss sale deals. Indo-Canadian billionaire Prem Watsa’s Fairfax Holdings, Brookfield Asset Management and Dubai’s Abraaj are among the other long-term risk investors, which have turned bullish on Asia’s third largest economy. 
 
 The Indian M&A story in the last two years has been dominated by domestic consolidation moves, which continue to unfold in telecom and infrastructure and are expected to gather steam in pharmaceuticals, healthcare and financial services. The big conglomerates, such as the Tatas and L&T, are also seen pushing for de-consolidation, which would entail spin-offs or divestments. 
 
 
