PUNE: The   has dismissed the plea by an import-export businessman from Warje seeking relaxation of his anticipatory bail conditions to enable him an unrestricted travel abroad.

 In August last year, the high court had granted the businessman an anticipatory bail following an FIR lodged by his wife with the Warje Malwadi police on April 26, 2016. The wife alleged that he and his friend connived to install cameras in their house and shot compromised pictures of her as well as videos of the husband and wife’s physical relation.
 
 She alleged that her husband’s friend coerced and threatened her into a sexual relation after the husband ignored her complaints of unwanted advances by his friend, who is since absconding. The friend also threatened to upload her videos on social media, the wife alleged. 
 
 An offence of rape, extortion, causing hurt, criminal intimidation and charges under the Information Technology Act were registered against the husband and his friend. Additional sessions judge L L Yenkar had rejected the businessman’s anticipatory bail plea on July 29 last year, after which he had moved the high court. 
 
 One of the pre-arrest bail conditions set by the high court was that the applicant should attend the concerned police station on every Saturday between 10am and 12 noon. The businessman sought relaxation of the condition arguing that his job required him to go out of India. He prayed for a blanket permission by the court to let him travel abroad.
 
 Simultaneously, his wife had filed an application for cancellation of his anticipatory bail, arguing that he had failed to comply with the bail conditions relating to attendance at the police station.
 
 In its report to the high court, the Warje Malwadi police stated that since August 22 last year, the husband attended all dates on Saturdays except on October 8, 2016. The report stated that on November 19, 2016, a warrant was issued against the husband in a   case lodged earlier by the wife and, hence, he did not remain present thereafter.
 
 In an order on February 23, Justice   of the Bombay High Court observed, “There is a breach of the order of attendance which is passed by this court. Hence, this court is not inclined to relax the condition of attendance at this stage as the charge sheet is yet to be filed and two accused are absconding. It is a case under Section 376 (2) of the Indian Penal Code.” The section 376 (2) deals with the offence of rape. 
 
 “The reason for non-attendance at the police station is explained and therefore both the applications, that is, for cancellation of anticipatory bail and for relaxation of condition, are dismissed,” the bench said.
 
 A bitter wedlock
 
 The estranged couple was married in Pune on April 29, 2002, and have a 13-year-old daughter studying in Class VIII. Apart from the import-export business, the husband is a director in four companies and owns 20 to 25 acre agricultural land at Sawantwadi in Ratnagiri district. 
 
 In December 2014, the wife had lodged an FIR with Warje Malwadi police alleging dowry harassment by her husband, parents-in law, sister-in-law and the latter’s husband. 
 
 She alleged physical and mental torture by her husband, who was demanding money from her parents to purchase a car and was also insisting she transfer her mother’s immovable properties in his name following her father’s death in 2009. She alleged that her husband unlawfully wedded a second woman, despite their marriage in subsistence. 
 
 Responding to her application, filed in February 2015 for various reliefs under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, a Pune magisterial court passed an order on July 7, 2016 directing the husband to pay Rs50,000 monthly maintenance to the wife. The order also restrained the husband and the in-laws from committing, aiding or abetting any act of domestic violence.
 
 The husband has challenged maintainability of the Domestic Violence proceedings against him, in the high court. He has also challenged the maintenance order in a Pune sessions court.
 
