KOCHI: Two five-year-old schoolchildren were killed after the private vehicle that ferried them to   at Koothattukulam on Monday morning. The driver,   (alias Siby), was also killed in the accident that happened at 7.45am at  . 

 The private vehicle - a Force ferrying 15 students to   - ploughed into the wall at a  , as the driver lost control and was unable to negotiate a turn. MVD officers said that the brake pad of the vehicle had fallen off due to overuse.
 
 MVD officers are not exactly sure about the sequence of events that led to the accident. "The brake pad of the vehicle had fallen off and was found half a kilometre away," said Jain T Lukose, MVD inspector.
 
  first suspected that the driver might have fallen asleep, but students gave them a statement that Siby had pulled the vehicles key out when he discovered that the brakes were not working. Lukose said that accident could have been avoided if the driver had not panicked and lowered the speed by shifting down the gear.
 
 "When he pulled the key out, the steering locked itself. They crashed around 70 km/hr," he said.
 
 "We first felt something fall off the vehicle. When we told Siby chetan, he said that the brakes had failed," said Diya Roy, a seventh-grade student who was travelling in the vehicle. She was admitted to a private hospital in Koothattukulam with bruises and neck pain.
 
 "Siby, Ann Maria Shiji and Nayna Dileep, who were seated in the front along with two other students, succumbed to head injuries and were declared dead on arrival at the hospital," said Ramapuram CI Babu Kuttan.
 
 The remaining 12 students were rushed to Deva Matha Hospital. Two students, George Kurian and Jobin Shiji, had to undergo surgeries to treat the minor fractures they had sustained in the accident. 
 
 The police said that rest of the students did not sustain severe injuries.
 
 MVD officers suggested that the accident could also be attributed to exhaustion as Siby used to take up several jobs on a single day. "He starts delivering newspapers around 10.30 pm and returns home by 3am, following which he attends to the cows at his home. In the morning, he shuttles school children home," said an MVD officer.
 
 The funeral of the deceased students will be held on Tuesday as Ann's mother and Nayana's father are in Saudi Arabia and Dubai respectively. Principal of Marygiri CMI Public School, Fr Figi Naduvilatharayil said that the school will foot the hospital bill of all students.
 
