MUMBAI: Indians could soon have Tata Group’s ready-to-eat food on their plate as the country’s largest conglomerate may be entering the market dominated by the likes of  , MTR and Patanjali. Tata Industries, a holding company for new-age businesses, formed a division for the same in March, according to the documents seen by ET. It will look at manufacturing and marketing vegetaranian, non- vegetaranian, nonalcoholic, carbonated and non-carbonated food products.
 
  The company confirmed the development but said the project right now is in experimental stages, which may or may not evolve into a business in the future. “Market opportunities we see are at the intersection of consumer preferences, especially millennials, for recipes in a convenient and quick format. The conventional domestic ready-toeat market is too small currently to be seen as a standalone market opportunity,” the Tata Industries spokesperson told ET in an email reply.
  
  The competitive landscape in the Indian ready-to-eat market is crowded with over a dozen existing players and several more lined up. Companies are attracted by the large base of young consumers, who form majority of the country’s workforce.
  
  Ready-to-eat food packets eliminate the need for cold chain. Food packets can be sold at a kirana shop and stored at room temperature, with just a microwave needed to heat the packaged food before consuming.
  
  The ambitious entry into the ready-to-eat market was a bone of contention between former chairmen Cyrus Mistry and  , ET had reported in December.
  
  Even as Ratan Tata was personally handholding the project Mistry had cautioned against a fast scale-up, questioning the hypothesis of the project, the cost structure and the market acceptability.
  
  “The growth in quick-service restaurants, increasing population of working women, millennial population, busy work schedules, and retail chains are the key contributors in increasing the awareness about the ready-to-eat products," said research firm Mordor Intelligence in a report in 2016.
  
  The market research firm however cautioned that unhealthy substitutes, low quality, taste and a shift towards a healthier lifestyle are likely to hinder market growth in the coming years, and as a large chunk of Indian consumers are still price-conscious the market remains challenging for ready-to-eat food manufacturers and suppliers.
  
  "It is premature to quantify investment on an exercise which is in the nature of an experiment. In case, hypothetically, there is a substantial market opportunity in the future which we can address, we will look at all viability parameters before making an investment decision," the spokespeson said.
  
    already has a presence in foods and beverages through group companies like Tata Chemicals and Tata Global Beverages.
