Vellore:  , which shot to fame after V K   took charge as AIADMK party general secretary, wants to stay away from political and communal colour.

 Spreading its wings across the state with around one lakh members, founder of the organisation A L Chinnathambi, a native of Sivagangai district, has asked members to avoid using either the AIADMK party’s flag or the two leaves symbol in the banners and posters, to maintain its individuality.
 
 In fact, they are prepared to use their beloved Chinnamma’s favourite colour green and yellow for the posters and banners. In the peravai’s WhatsApp group, the founder of the organisation dissuaded members from using community name in the banners.
 
 The organisation was started on February 17, 2015. “I have great respect for   (Sasikala). She sacrificed many things to remain by the side of Amma (Jayalalithaa) for 33 years. The peravai was an outcome of my admiration for Chinnamma for her friendship with Amma. We distribute free text books and medical camps for poor people,” said Chinnathambi.
 
 Resisting all political pressure and criticisms from AIADMK senior leaders to the district level functionaries, the organisation rose to strength. From 17 district units, it has spread to 25 districts in a short span of time. In the last two months alone, the unit has been opened in Dindugal Kaniyakumari, Thuthukudi and Chennai districts, he said. “The organisation wanted to continue the good work in the name of Chinnamma. But we are ready to join the AIADMK party, if she wishes or orders us to do so,” he added.
 
 Since the chorus — Chinnamma for CM – was getting louder and louder, hundreds of people from various districts have expressed interest to enroll themselves in the organisation.
 
 Kumari J R David said that he, along with around 1500 persons, including around 200 differently-abled persons, from various organisations in Chennai were going to enroll themselves in Chinnamma Peravai on Sasikalaa’s birthday this month. “We silently extended our support to the peravai, fearing the wrath of AIADMK men till a few months ago. Now, we want to be part of the peravai to continue our good work,” said David, who is based in Chennai.
 
 
