KOLHAPUR: Maximum temperatures inched higher on Saturday, increasing the discomfort among citizens throughout the day.

 The maximum   touched 36 degrees Celsius, while the minimum temperature stood at 21 degrees Celsius.
 
 India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said the high maximum temperatures are expected to continue for the next three to four days. The maximum and minimum temperatures recorded on Saturday by the Regional Meteorological Centre were almost 3 degrees above normal.
 
 The met department officials have warned of heatwave-like conditions for the Konkan and Goa coastal regions in the next two days. It added that the maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to be around 37 degrees Celsius and 18 degrees Celsius respectively.
 
 In its daily report on Saturday, the department said no large change is expected in the maximum and minimum temperatures within the region in the next four days.
 
 In its seven-day forecast, the IMD has stated that the city’s maximum temperature will remain between 35 and 36 degrees Celsius till March 3, hinting towards a hot summer ahead.
 
 The rise in temperature has also pushed up the demand for fans and coolers in the market. The local coolers are available from Rs 2,000, while the branded ones with various features are available in the range of Rs 3,000 to Rs 20,000. According to electric appliance dealers, only a handful of people opt for airconditioners due to keep their electricity bills low.
 
 Avian concern
 
 Voicing his concern for the avion population of the region, city-based environmentalist Chetan Kokatnur said, “Considering the fact that the maximum temperature has started increasing throughout the region, citizens should start keeping a small pot of water for birds in their backyards, porch or balconies.”
 
 He said lack of water is the main thing due to which birds suffer a lot during summer. Citizen can keep a water in the large pot in open spaces as well, which will be easily accessible to birds. Leftover food is also one of the best ways to feed birds.
 
 The reason to keep the food and water at open spaces is that the birds’ natural instinct does not allow them to easily adapt to new places unless they feel safe there, he said. 
 
