KOLKATA: As   results go,   Congress’s retaining of the Contai (South) seat may not count for much; it does not alter equations inside the   assembly in any way. But the voting pattern in this single East Midnapore constituency sends out three unmistakable signals, two of which may indicate a directional change in Bengal politics.

 The first is not much of a change; Trinamool Congress has increased both its vote share and margin of victory, indicating that there is no dent in its rural and semi-urban support. But the other two signal a possible tectonic change in how Bengal votes: BJP is gradually emerging as the natural go-to party for opposition voters, replacing the Left and the Congress, both of whom lost their deposits in this election.
 
 Former minister and Trinamool candidate Chandrima Bhattacharya bagged 95,369 votes, 2,010 more than what was polled by Dibyendu Adhikari in the 2016 polls, which helped her party increase its winning margin by more than 8,000 votes. But, more significantly, BJP’s tally swelled to 52,843, even as CPI’s fell sharply to 17,423 from 59,469 polled less than a year ago 
 
 “We have been able to increase our party’s tally in terms of votes as well as percentage of votes polled despite a 4% dip in turnout compared to 2016,” Trinamool leader Suvendu Adhikari said. Bhattacharya’s victory, that way, comes as a shot in the arm for Trinamool chief Mamata Banerjee immediately after the BJP’s spectacular victory in Uttar Pradesh, which has emboldened it to try every means at its disposal to unsettle the state’s ruling party. “I am humbled by the support people have given to us. I have decided to make Chandrima a minister during the upcoming cabinet reshuffle in Baisakh,” the CM said on Thursday, after an administrative meeting at Behrampore’s Rabindra Bhavan.
 
 But the BJP, too, has a huge takeaway from this result: the direct shift of opposition votes from the Left camp to itself. CPI’s Uttam Pradhan ended with 17,423 votes, a sharp fall from the 59,469 votes he polled less than a year ago from the same constituency. The BJP’s tally swelled to 52,843, giving a clear indication of a new polarisation in Bengal politics where the voter has picked the BJP to challenge Trinamool’s hegemony in Bengal.
 
 State BJP president Dilip Ghosh sent out an alert for the Trinamool: “Trinamool has to be on guard. The BJP has arrived in Bengal.” BJP national president Amit Shah, too, read similar signals from this win: “I thank the people of West Bengal for making BJP the principal opposition party in the recently concluded by-polls.”
 
 “This was expected. We were getting huge public response to our janajagaran (cultural and religious mass-awakening) programmes as well as to the pro-development programmes of PM Narendra Modi. We have governments in Assam and Jharkhand and have done quite well in Odisha. Our next target is Bengal. This bypoll result will not only be replicated in other constituencies in Bengal but we will also win many of these,” said BJP national spokesperson Shahnawaz Hussain.
 
 The Bengal CM, however, seemed undeterred with the rise in the BJP’s vote share. “Bam kokhono Ram hoy abar Ram kokhono Bam (the Left sometimes votes for the BJP and the BJP sometimes goes with with Left). There are times when even the Congress transfers its votes to the BJP; I am not surprised with the vote transfer. It has been going on, which is why I told you earlier: BJP-r kole CPM dole, CPM-er kole BJP dole (the BJP rocks the CPM and the CPM cradles the BJP),” she said.
 
 Left leaders do not see any shortcut for revival. “You are all aware of Hindutva forces trying to divide people in Bengal on religious lines. The Trinamool’s bad governance is only adding fuel to that. There is no denying that a section of Left voters averse to the Trinamool is opting for the BJP. The Left is still not in a position to capitalise on rising anti-incumbency,” CPI leader Swapan Banerjee admitted.
 
 
