If and when Mars gets an anthem of its own,  's 'Rise to Mars' will be a prime contender. 

 The Mumbai lad's searing composition was recently named 'Mars Anthem' by the Mars Society, the world's largest and most influential advocacy organization focused on the Red Planet. It was premiered in Cardiff in June by the Society, with Castellino, a distinguished baritone, accompanied by the REPco Sinfonia.
 
 The anthem, to be released online this month, will again take centre stage in September, when Castellino performs in California for the Society's 20th annual convention. "I would not be surprised if Castellino's composition some day became the national anthem of the  ," said Dr Robert Zubrin, a former Lockheed Martin engineer and founder-president of the Mars Society, who co-wrote the lyrics. 
 
 Castellino, 31, was a software analyst in Mumbai before being discovered by the British-Indian soprano Patricia Rozario in 2011. What followed was a phenomenal rise - a scholarship to London's prestigious Royal College of Music, singing for Queen Elizabeth's diamond jubilee pageant, and numerous opera roles. He's currently on scholarship at the   and Drama, a far cry from his days graduating in science at St Xavier's College, Mumbai. 
 
 "My physics background and curiosity got me in touch with Dr Zubrin, president of the Mars Society and also driving force behind the 'Mars Direct' design that   adapted for its Mars mission," said Castellino, whose family is from Assagao in Goa. As it turned out, the Mars Society was looking for an anthem, and Castellino was the perfect combo of conservatory-trained musician and space geek to compose it. "As Mars is my inspiration and music my tool, I thought I would give it a shot," Castellino told TOI. "To my surprise, I got a reply from Zubrin saying he and others in the Mars community he had shared it with were thrilled."
 
 This isn't the first time someone has stumbled upon the idea of a Mars anthem. "But 'Rise to Mars' has a good chance of being the song for the ages. It is very inspiring, it truly conveys the hopes of those reaching for the Red Planet, and is a song everyone can sing rather than merely listen to as a member of an audience," Zubrin told TOI from Colorado.
 
 But why the need of an anthem at all? "No movement of importance has ever gotten anywhere without a song," says Zubrin.
 
 
