BENGALURU: The Rs 2,100 crore   was scrapped by the   government following allegations of payoffs. But politicians, contractors and officials in the know of things wonder why there was so much hullabaloo over it when kickbacks are common across the country for bagging any government project.

 “The practice is prevalent in every government, be it any party. In Karnataka, it surfaced in the late 70s, and is seen even today. After 1983, major political parties which took over the reigns of Karnataka engaged in murky deals. Irrespective of who became the chief minister, the person’s first priority was to act in accordance with the needs and aspirations of the so-called high command. This is first and foremost inspiration to mobilize kickbacks,” said Mahadev Prakash, a political analyst.
 
 Road and irrigation projects in Karnataka offer classic examples, as they are a rich source of funds for political parties in power. A politician-bureaucrat-contractor nexus has squeezed out thousands of crores of taxpayers’ money from these funds-guzzling projects over the past two decades. Officials said a whopping Rs 20,000-25000 crore is pumped into these two departments in every budget, roughly to develop 2,000kms of district, state and national highways and expedite major, medium and minor irrigation projects across the state. Irrigation and PWD scams have been in focus over the past two decades.
 
 Irrigation and PWD department engineers claimed contractors pay up to 30% as kickbacks in these projects. They alleged 10-20% of the quoted cost is paid to politicians, officials and engineers only to procure the work order of the contract. Another 8-10% is paid by the contractor to get his payment released.
 
 Thought the state mooted the Karnataka Transparency in Public Procurement Act in 1999 to ensure free and fair tenders in government projects, those in power have found several ways to circumvent it, sources said. 
 
 Political analyst   said: “State governments, irrespective of the party in power, are being increasingly embroiled in controversies linked to misdemenours in sanctioning of large projects. Public debates, citizen participation and transparency are the need of the hour”.
 
 Many chances to mint money
 
 Any project offers ample opportunities to the key stakeholders to make money through corrupt practices. The chain starts with the politician who could be an MLA, MP or cabinet minister, who secures or issues approvals for spending taxpayers’ money. Other stakeholders include bureaucrats, engineers, contractors, material suppliers and labourers, who execute the project. Normally, these act as the cartel of project development. So they can collectively control the project cost and share the profits 
 
 -A former   minister
 
 Old practice to promote mutual interests
 
 Giving kickbacks is an old practice, which business and corporate houses use to promote their business. However, in the neo-liberal era where state-centric business promotions became compulsive methods of improving a state’s economy, crony capitalism combined business interests and political decision-making as a means to promote mutual interests. This led to indirect bribing, known as kickbacks in the western world. In the Indian context, it is seen as a derogatory term. It is like ‘paying respects’ discreetly to someone who helps promote one’s business interest through a known friendship or relationship in a public office
 
 - Harish Ramaswamy, political analyst
 
 
