AHMEDABAD: In what could turn out to be a  ,   busted a   in the city. Worrying, most of the 21   with all-India validity, were with people having criminal backgrounds, such as known gangsters, people accused of murder and bootleggers.

  These fake licences were sold for between Rs 2.5 lakh and Rs 3 lakh and weapons were then bought from the ordnance factory in Dewas, MP. “The racket seems to have spread across the country, as we have come across such licences in Rajasthan, MP, Maharashtra and other states,” said a senior crime branch official.
 
 Crime branch officials said among those using such licences were some professionals, like Shridhar Derasari, a lawyer. Sarfarazkhan Pathan, the nephew of Sharifkhan Pathan of Nawab Builders in the Shah-e-Alam and the son of Nadirkhan Pathan alias Babakhan of Shah-e-Alam also had one. Others are Yasin Shaikh, a cement trader earlier booked for selling fake cement; Montu Namdar; and Mustaq Haji alias Kaniya, a former bootlegger. “There are 22 people accused. Two persons, Ayyub alias Shikari of Shah-e-Alam and Salim Jummakhan Pathan, who have criminal records, have been arrested,” said DCP (crime branch) Deepan Bhadran. “We have written to the ministry of home affairs (MHA) to get data of arms licences issued from Nagaland to people from Gujarat. We suspect verification of 5,200 such licences will reveal more fake licences,” added DCP Bhadran. ACP Rajdeepsinh Zala said Shikari had been arrested in a similar fake licence case earlier. 
 
 “Shikari and Jummakhan were in contact with a man named David from Nagaland, who would forge the stamps and signatures of a DCP in Nagaland and deliver the licences to the accused,” added Zala.Inspector Shankar Chaudhary who is investigating the case said they have seized six firearms — including three pistols, two revolvers and one double-barrel twelve bore shotgun — and nine fake licenses.“The licences are completely illegal with no record existing in Nagaland. Even the addresses were faked. Some addresses are of hotels in Dimapur, Nagaland. The scam wouldn’t have emerged without human intelligence from our sources, who saw Mustaq Haji Shaikh alias Kaniya, a listed bootlegger and a murder accused and a resident of Shah-e-Alam, brandishing a licenced pistol,” added Inspector Chaudhary.Why fake licenses from Nagaland?
 
  Earlier it had emerged licences were procured from Nagaland by bribing some police officials, said a senior crime branch officials. “That resulted the licencing authority being changed from DCP to IGP. The racketeers had their means and started faking arm licences. In Ahmedabad, a social media group was run by Ayyub Shikari and Salim Jummakhan, whose members had fake Nagaland licences,” said a senior crime branch official.
 
 
 
 
 Ayyub Shikari, Salim Jummakhan, Shridhar Derasari, Farooq Memon of Shah-e-Alam, Mohammed Faiz Ansari of Shah-e-Alam, Altaf Makrani, Mustaq Haji Shaikh of Danilimda, Jafar Goghari of Rasulabad in Shah-e-Alam, Javed Khatumra of Danilimda, Mehroof Memon, Sarfarazkhan Pathan of Shah-e-Alam, Zaidkhan Pathan of Shah-e-Alam, Nazarkhan Pathan of Danilimda, Montu Namdar Gandhi of Isanpur, Firoze Bisora of Jamalpur, Shakir Shaikh of Danilimda, Mominkhan Pathan of Ramol, Yasin Shaikh of Danilimda, Rajendrakumar Patel of Gandhinagar and Qasam Qureshi of Gandhinagar.
 
 
 
 
 Crime branch sources said when the accused were summoned before an offence was registered, Shridhar Derasari said that he had confirmed that his licence was genuine. It turned out to be fake.
 
 
