PATNA: Sikh devotees from across the country and abroad, who are here to participate in the 350th birth anniversary celebrations of tenth Sikh Guru Gobind Singh, on Thursday said they would return home with sweet memories from the state. The devotees, who were all praise for chief minister   for making grand arrangements for the event, said they would again visit Patna Saheb as the CM has won their hearts.

 Kawaljeet Kaur, a homemaker from Karnal, said such a grand celebration of a Sikh event outside Punjab was unbelievable. “Nitish ji deserves kudos for what he has done. We are also thankful to the people of Bihar for offering us such a great hospitality,” Kawaljeet, who has come to Bihar for the first time, said.
 
 Another homemaker Rajkumari Gulati, a resident of Shirdi in Maharashtra, said, “I was staying at Bypass tent city. The arrangements at the tent city were world class. I have not spent a single penny since I reached Patna, thanks to grand arrangements by Nitish ji. I will board Patna-Pune Express on Friday to return home with sweet memories from the state.”
 
 Many devotees said the Bihar CM had occupied a special place in their hearts and some even wished to see him as PM. Takhat Sri Harmandir Ji Managing Committee chairman Avtar Singh Makkar thanked Nitish on behalf of the Sikh community.
 
 Sea of humanity at Gandhi Maidan, Patna Saheb: The historic   and Patna Saheb wore a festive look on Thursday with lakhs of devotees celebrating the 350th birth anniversary of Guru Gobind Singh. Slogans like ‘Wahe Guru ji Ka Khalsa, Wahe Guru ji Ka Fatah’, ‘Jo Bole So Nihal Sat Sri Akal’ and ‘Satnam Waheguru’ rent the air as the Sikhs congregated in the city from across the country and abroad to celebrate the event. ‘Gurbani’ by Bhai Rai Singh ji created a warm and   at Gandhi Maidan.
 
 With heads properly covered, people could be seen offering prayers in front of Guru Granth Sahib which was brought to Gandhi Maidan from Takhat Sri Harmandir Saheb. The excitement among common people reached its zenith when Prime Minister   reached the venue along with other dignitaries.
 
 A huge crowd was seen outside Gandhi Maidan with people waiting for their turn to enter the venue. The administration, however, restricted the entry of locals for the convenience of visiting Sikh devotees. The gates of Gandhi Maidan, however, were thrown open for commoners after the PM left the venue.
 
