AHMEDABAD: A 36-year-old farmer from Aravalli district consumed pesticide, allegedly in a suicide bid, at the new   on Thursday afternoon. Sector 7 police of Gandhinagar city have started probe in the incident. The reasons for the extreme step are unknown.

 According to investigators, Babusinh Chauhan, a resident of Chauhan Faliyu in Bhilkuwa village near Modasa in Aravalli district, had come to Gandhinagar to meet a few ministers and senior government officers to make a representation for seeking government aid. 
 
  Ajaysinh Chauhan, Babusinh’s younger brother, told media that Babusinh had started off from home on Wednesday morning saying that he would meet the chief minister. 
 
 “He had incurred   of Rs 1.5 lakh from a cooperative bank based in Modasa. As the crop yield was not as expected, he could not get the desired price and thus was short on money. When he did not return on Wednesday night, we called him up when he said that he could not meet the officials and thus was staying back. On Thursday afternoon, we got to know that he has been hospitalized,” said Chauhan, who came to Gandhinagar on Thursday evening with other family members.
 
 Parag Chauhan, inspector of Sector 7 police station, said that Babusinh had come to meet the government officials but they are yet to ascertain whom he met. “His statement would be recorded once his health improves,” he said.
 
 Police sources said that Babusinh had got a pass issued to meet Dilip Thakor, labour and employment minister. Moreover, he is seen visiting Swarnim Sankul in CCTV footage but it was not clear whom all he met and made a representation.
 
 Police said that he was found unconscious from the garden at the Sachivalay by the passers-by at around 12 noon after which he was shifted to Civil Hospital by an EMRI 108 ambulance. No bottle was found on him as police had searched the premises to ascertain the content he consumed. The medical officers identified his condition as organo-phosphate poisoning. He had started frothing from mouth, said officers.
 
 Bina Patel, sarpanch of the Bhilkuwa, said that Babusinh has an activist streak. When Nitin Patel, deputy chief minister, had visited his village in April 2016, he had attempted suicide for stringent anti-prohibition norms. He had also threatened of agitation for village issues earlier, she said.
 
