BHUBANESWAR:   on Tuesday said they would strictly follow 2014 Orissa high court order during   this year by allowing only those priests, having specific rituals to perform, atop chariots. "After completion of the rituals, priests would be asked to alight from the chariots," said SP (Puri)   after a preparatory meeting at Puri. "We have asked the Jagannath temple administration to provide us a list of priests, who will perform duty on chariots and will not allow anyone else," Sarangi said. 

 The Orissa high courts directive had come after Puri Shankaracharya Swami Nischalananda Saraswati in 2014 advised the temple administration ban pilgrims to climb chariots, sparking resentments among priests and the people alike. 
 
 The Orissa high court, hearing a PIL, also asked the temple administration to implement the seer's recommendation. In an unpleasant twist, the temple administration restricted Shankaracharya's disciples from climbing the chariots. In a serious break to tradition, the seer did not perform his ritual on the chariots in a huff in 2014. The seer resumed his ritual on the chariots from 2015 after the shrine body apologised. 
 
 According to guideline, 84 members, including priests and 'ghantuas' (those who beat cymbals) are allowed on Balabhadra's Taladhwaja chariot (45 ft high), 96 on Jagannath's Nandighosa chariot (45.6 ft high) and 72 on Subhadras Darpadalan chariot (44.6 ft high) during the pulling of chariots. Soon after the chariots arrive at the  , police will install metal fences around the chariots, preventing public access. 
 
 During the previous years, the temple used to install ladders on chariots to help pilgrims climb those. Though the 2014 restriction on climbing of chariots was welcomed by devotees, they were upset for not being able to touch the chariots and deities. 
 
 "As common pilgrims, we suffer a lot as the administration never evicted non-duty priests and tourists in guise of priests from the chariots since the 2014 high court order. Once a year, we used to get a chance to go close to the deities," said Sambit Dash, a local resident. 
 
 Police said they would not allow all priests to stay on the bathing altar (snan mandap) during   on June 9. 
 
 Last year, the police drew flak for allowing all priests to surround the idols, making it difficult for the devotees to catch a glimpse of the bathing ritual. 
 
 
