JAIPUR: The   ( ) released second instalment for the revival of ambitious   project.

 As the progress of the project is gaining momentum, the board released Rs 400 crore for the project. The Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) has sought Rs 1,098 crore loan for Dravyavati river project.
 
 An official said, “Out of the sanctioned amount, the NCRPB so far has released Rs 640 crore. First instalment provided for the project was of Rs 240 crore. Before releasing the instalment, the NCRPB team recently visited the project site,“ he said.
 
 The state government is pressing hard to complete the Dravyavati river project by July 2018. In the recent review meeting, chief minister   shifted the deadline from August to July and directed to expedite the work at site.
 
 “In recent review meeting, it was informed so far, the firm has carried out 30% work after spending Rs 400 crore. Out of this, payment of Rs 333 crore has been made by the firm,“ added source.
 
 It remains a major challenge for the (JDA) to complete chief minister Vasundhara Raje's pet Dravyavati River project in less than one year's time as 65% of work remains on site. Source in the department said, many hurdles on site remain and representatives from Tata requested JDA to resolve so that work can be expedited. “ The firm asked to shift the electric poles from the site. Also, it demanded to make land available between Sushilpura Pulia and Ambabari.“ said source.
 
 Acting on the complaints, the Jaipur Development Commissioner ( JDC), directed engineering wing (electrical) to organise meeting with Jaipur Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (JVVNL) and expedite the shifting work. Similarly , enforce ment wing was directed to provide ground to the company after removing encroachments.
 
 It was said that Army has given a nod to start river rejuvenation work in its stretch. “Earlier, Army had raised objection to river rejuvenation work in 3-km stretch that falls in its area.They claimed that it would be a threat to national security . After aseries of meetings in New Delhi recently , the permission was given,“ the source added.
 
