HYDERABAD: Making the most of the extended weekend starting Thursday, city residents took off to various tourist destinations in the country.

 However, many who headed to the neighbouring states and districts had a tough time getting past long queues, which were noticed at toll plazas on the Hyderabad-Nagpur and the Bangalore highways.
 
 'Mini vacations' in Auli, Goa, Pondicherry, Mahabaleshwar, Shimla, Dehradun, Coorg in different parts of the country and Araku, Papikondalu, Horsley Hills, Dandeli and Kabini nearer home have been popular destinations for holidaymakers, travel agents said. Many people also headed to Dubai, Singapore, Hong Kong, Macau, Sri Lanka and Thailand for short overseas vacations.
 
 The trend of going on 'mini vacations' has been on the rise in the city, said agents. “The younger lot is increasingly exploring adventure destinations during such short breaks by taking road trips. We are seeing a year-onyear increase in extended weekend travel by 25-30 percent. This year discount offers by airlines gave a huge boost to tourism. So the ones who usually do not travel have taken the opportunity too,“ said Rashid Ali, Hyderabad Tours and Travels.
 
 “There are some who do not like year-end crowd at tourist places and avoid travelling during that time. But they don't want to miss on the newyear celebration and hence largely take up travel on the New Year's first long weekend. Around 60% of our travellers are planning a domestic holiday while the rest are interested in short-haul international destinations,“ added  , head, Relationships, Cox & Kings.
 
 Meanwhile, the numerous toll plazas on national highways gave tourists a tough time. Though toll plazas pasted clear message to people to tender 'exact change' also accepted payments through Paytm, the huge rush and several toll gates resulted in massive delays. “On way from Hyderabad to   there are more than 10 toll gates that one has to cross and half of them had half a kilometre long queues. With such long queues, change remained an issue and even paying through Paytm took a while. It was complete mismanagement,“ said   , a traveller who took a road journey.
 
 As per figures from the  , together the Nagpur and Mumbai highways saw a surge of 4,000 additional vehicles on Wednesday and they were expecting 10,000 more vehicles by early Friday.
 
