NEW DELHI: The   on Wednesday directed the municipal corporations,   and other   to inspect each road in the national capital and count the total number of speed breakers. 

 The court's direction came after the   informed it that there were only 93 authorised speed breakers on roads built by the PWD in the city. 
 
 A bench of Justices S Ravindra Bhat and Yogesh Khanna directed the agencies to identify potholes, manholes and other such breaks on Delhi roads and file their reports.
 
 The court noted that the traffic police has identified 93 speed breakers on main roads but could not ascertain the exact position with regard to roads in interior areas such as colonies and apartment societies.
 
 The bench directed that chief engineers of the three municipal corporations and the special commissioner of police shall work in coordination and identify the actual position of speed breakers. 
 
 It issued similar directions to the New Delhi Municipal Council, DDA, the Delhi Cantonment, PWD and the Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation.
 
 The court said the authorities shall earmark local officers concerned and policemen in the area and they should jointly visit each road and report the correct status. 
 
 T hey should give measurement of speed breakers as well as differentiate the authorised and unauthorised ones, it ordered. The court asked the agencies to file progress reports by August 16, the next date of hearing. 
 
 Advocate Naushad Ahmed Khan, appearing for the traffic police, told the court that proper signages have been placed on the 93 speed breakers, which have been made as per norms of the Indian Road Congress (IRC) and the Unified Traffic and Transportation Infrastructure (Planning and Engineering) Centre (UTTIPEC), on the peripheral roads.
 
 The court was hearing two PILs filed against unauthorised construction of speed breakers on city roads without complying with the guidelines of IRC and UTTIPEC.
 
 HC had in 2016 directed the agencies maintaining roads in the national capital for removal of all speed breakers not approved by the traffic police and which do not conform to the prescribed norms.
 
 
