HYDERABAD: Citing intelligence inputs on possible Maoist attacks on three irrigation projects in  , the Union home ministry has decided to deploy three companies of   at   in Warangal, Kaleswaram in Karimnagar and Sitarama in Khammam. Three major lift irrigation projects are coming up at these three places.

  The Tupakulagudem reservoir was proposed after the Kanthanapalli project was shelved. A formal communication from the Centre has already been received by the state government, which has agreed to provide the necessary facilities for the CRPF teams that are expected to be deployed in a week.
 
 At a time when the state wants to speed up land acquisition to complete irrigation projects and provide water to one crore acres, the Centre's alert has come as a bolt from the blue.
 
 “The Centre has alerted the state go vernment about Maoist threat to three major irrigation pro jects and has come forward to deploy CRPF teams to safeguard them,“ Telangana irrigation department engineer-in-chief C Muralidhar told TOI. Locations of all the three projects share their borders with Maoist-stronghold districts in  , Maharashtra and Odisha. As the land required for the reservoir is less and displacement is low, the state government changed the design of the project to relocate the reservoir at Tupakulagudem. Since Maoist groups have a strong presence in the area, the state government was forced to delay land acquisition for this project.
 
 Similarly , Kaleswaram project shares its border with Maharashtra and Maoist activity in the area has been reported by the local police after chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao announced the project. The Sitarama lift irrigation project in Khammam district has recently received threats from local groups, which have been, of late, receiving support from the Maoists.
 
 “The home ministry is sending three companies of CRPF , each comprising 135 personnel, to these sites in a week. The Force's central region director general Sudeep Lakhtakia has already issued an order. In all, 405 CRPF personnel will be deployed at the three project sites,“ said a senior official of the home department.
 
 The state intelligence wing has also submitted a report to the chief minister, stating that there was increased Maoist activity near several irrigation projects with the aim to disrupt land acquisition .
 
 State director general of police (DGP) Anurag Sharma and intelligence chief Navin Chand had recently toured the project area and submitted a report to the chief minister.
 
