MEERUT/AGRA: Around 64.22 per cent of voters exercised their franchise in 73 assembly constituencies in the first of the seven-phased  , the Election Commission said. This was marginally better than the 61% registered in the first phase of the 2012 assembly polls.

 In all, 59.4% voters had exercised their franchise in the last assembly polls, while a record 58.35% polling was witnessed during the 2014 Lok Sabha elections in UP, the state’s highest-ever turnout in a general election. Jats and Muslim voters dominate the constituencies which went to the polls on Saturday. A higher turnout, therefore, indicates that the the two groups voted overwhelmingly for the parties of their choice.
 
 While Jats got polarised in favour of BJP in 2014 Lok Sabhpolls, held just after Muzaffarnagar riots, this time they seems to be divided between the saffron party and Rashitriya Lok Dal (RLD).
 
 Political observers say that a high voting percentage among Muslims indicates that they voted decisively for a party best placed to defeat BJP. While both SP-Cong alliance and BSP were banking heavily on Muslim voters’ support in this phase, the community didn’t open its cards till the very last.
 
 Official sources that said barring reports of election slips being snatched at some places leading to the pelting of stones and clashes, polling was peaceful.
 
 In Meerut, where Gagan Som, the brother of sitting Sardhana MLA and BJP candidate  , was detained for carrying a pistol inside a polling booth. Sangeet had shot to the limelight for his controversial speeches during the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots. He was also booked under the National Security Act.
 
 Two groups clashed in Baghpat when one side tried to prevent the other from voting, injuring 10 people.
 
 In another incident in Baghpat, workers of the Ajit Singh-led Rashtriya Lok Dal obstructed Dalit voters from casting their votes in Looyan village under Badaut area, leading to a clash. An FIR was lodged against three party workers.
 
 EC said 3,888 digital and video cameras were used and webcasting was done in 2,857 places for the first phase of polling. A total of 2,96,906 troublemakers were identified and preventive action taken against them. Rs 19.56 crore cash, 4.44 lakh litres of liquor worth Rs 14 crore and drugs worth Rs 96.93 lakh, gold & silver worth Rs 14 crore were seized in the first phase.
 
 A total of 2.60 crore voters, including over 1.17 crore women and 1,508 belonging to the third gender, were eligible to cast their ballot to decide the fate of 839 candidates.
 
