Day one of  , the annual two-day theatre festival of   kicked off on Friday evening at  . Replete with a didactic street play, folksy children’s theatre productions and a brilliant adaptation of a classic, the evening satiated theatre enthusiasts with varied tastes. 
The evening began with a street play outside the auditorium.  , a combination of songs, dramatic tools and dance, presented by 13 youngsters had the audience listening in carefully to the messages. The booming voices of the actors warned of complete destruction of the planet if conservation efforts don’t begin immediately. And with no props, their voices and their words became the only points of focus for the crowd, which seemingly was engaged in rapt attention. 
 Following a 15-minute break, the audience was ushered indoors for the next staging —  . Showcasing five folk stories from five states of India — West Bengal, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Uttaranchal and Andhra Pradesh — 32 little ones played various roles in each of these short plays. Although all the plays were in Telugu, the aesthetics of the originals were retained. 
 The first play from West Bengal, spoke of the importance of team work through the story of a kind old lady who is saved from robbers by burada (mud), chaku (knife), chepa (fish), kappa (frog) and a bomb. Next,was a story from Gujarat, on the importance of wisdom through a rather obscure tale of a youngster who sells wisdom as ‘gyaana sutralu’. Then came the story from Madhya Pradesh, which followed a husband, who creates a song for his wife based on the movements of animals, which ends up saving their lives. Uttaranchal’s folk story was of a young traveller who seeks prosperity, but his success lies in his efforts to help his friends through his accomplishments. 
 The final story was from Andhra Pradesh, where five people who claim to own a diamond, fight before the king, but the wise king finds out who the liar among the lot is. Throughout the plays, the audience ensured that lil’ ones’ spirits were kept high, by applauding encouragingly. 
 The evening ended on a rather impressive note with an adaptation of Shakespearean tragedy Othello, titled  . With song and dance adding to the stage design, the show was not only a visual treat, but was high on emotion as well. 
 The actors, with their energetic performances, had the audience spellbound. Vijay Ayancha who plays the protagonist invoked pity for the tragic hero while Sowmya who plays Sitamma his wife, was a delight. Nikhil Kandari, who plays the antagonist Saidulu, made the experience of the show all the more breathtaking with his act as an evil hunchback. The audience gave the cast a standing ovation and left the venue evidently overwhelmed by the performances. 
 
