KOLKATA: If the private sector teams up with   and the two make an effort to implement the necessary measures,   could soon see a spurt in numbers across Bengal, felt panelists at a discussion on organ donation organized by The Times of India on Monday. It was just a matter of time before Bengal caught up with states like Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra, which have taken rapid strides ahead in organ donation, they said.

 The panelists included Regional Organ and Tissue Transplant Organization (ROTTO) joint director Arpita Ray Chaudhury; IPGMER head (department of nephrology) Rajendra Pandey; Bell Vue Hospital nephrologist Pratim Sengupta; NGO Antyesthi Foundation representative Shruthi Reddy; NOTTO member Brojo Roy; Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital (KDAH), Mumbai, executive director Ram Narain; KDAH hepatobiliary surgery &   consultant Ashutosh Chauhan; KDAH consultant (urology) Sanjay Pandey and Rupayan Roy, an organ recipient.
 
 All stakeholders must be convinced that organ donations can happen more regularly, said Narain. “Then, we have got to have the right number of transplant coordinators and trained people to retrieve organs at every hospital. It is eminently doable. Maharashtra wasn’t any different from Bengal till three years ago when we started emulating Tamil Nadu and the number of transplants spiralled up. Bengal, too, can follow the Maharashtra example and march ahead,” said Narain.
 
 Arpita Ray Chaudhury agreed, emphasizing on the role of the government as a stake-holder. “The government has to be there as the major stake-holder. We must train ICU intensivists to identify and declare brain deaths. And all transplant coordinators should be chosen from doctors and nurses for none can convince donors’ families to agree better than them. This is a job which can’t be taken as a mere professional assignment, but has to be done with a lot of passion,” said Ray Chaudhuri.
 
 Sanjay Pandey, however, pointed out that transplant coordination was a full-time job and it could be difficult for the intensivists in charge to do the job, unless they had enough support.
 
 A government order making it mandatory for all hospitals to declare brain deaths could help to identify potential donors on a more regular basis, argued Pratim Sengupta. “It should be made compulsory to issue a monthly report on brain deaths. We may have a centralized trauma care centre for accident victims in Kolkata which will make it easier. This will help to ensure that more brain deaths are detected,” suggested Sengupta. But large government hospitals didn’t always help to track brain deaths, felt Narain. “In Maharashtra, large teaching hospitals have reported few brain deaths,” he said.
 
 Brojo Roy, on the other hand, pointed out that even though notifications were issued to make brain death declaration mandatory, they were not followed by government order.
 
 While Shruthi Reddy suggested an app for organ donation, Rajendra Pandey pointed out that social and religious prejudices often came in the way. Religious leaders and orders can speak in favour of donations to remove misgivings about donating organs, he recommended. It was just as important for donors to discuss the issue with their families, pointed out Narain. “Many never do it and families are not even aware. Consequently, they are hesitant and in most cases refuse to let the organs be extracted,” he said.
 
 Rupayan Roy, who underwent a heart transplant at Chennai, described himself as “living example of the success of the efforts put in by people like you”. “I am a beneficiary of organ transplant and I know that a lot of people play a part in making it possible. I was just 42 when I had cardiac myopathy and had to undergo a heart transplant. Why can’t we host such transplants in Kolkata?” asked Roy.
 
