UDHAGAMANDALAM: In a bid to control   ahead of the   and to facilitate the locals, the police have come out with a novel idea that the local   will be provided with a   so that they could navigate freely without taking the one-way system. The sticker system was launched in Ooty on Wednesday by the Nilgiris SP,  .

 According to the SP, several complaints were made to the police last year during the tourist season by the locals for they had been put into hardship due to unnecessary traffic diversion. “Hence, keeping in mind about the locals, this year, we have come out with the idea that the local light vehicles will be provided with a sticker after verification so that they don’t face any adversity. Also, the traffic congestion will be reduced in the town significantly,” Murali Rambha said. During tourist season time, at least 5,000-7,000 vehicles would hit the hill town every day. 
 
 Normally the traffic is diverted through Kotagiri for vehicles going down to the plains, while the vehicles coming from the plains are allowed via Coonoor- Ooty Road during April and May.
 
 Last year, the locals found it difficult if they want to go to a place located between Ooty and Coonoor as they had to take the route via Kotagiri, which was a way round about. “The police personnel deputed at traffic places will not know who is a local or a tourist. Hence they had to take the roundabout way for a shorter distance,” said Rambha. He further said, “So considering the locals’ plea and to minimize traffic congestion, we have come out with a plan of giving stickers to local light vehicles so that they could take the normal route during the season.”
 
 According to the police, there area around 25,000 light vehicles, including tourist vans registered as Nilgiri vehicles. 25,000 stickers with three colours depicting three blocks in the Nilgiris such as Ooty, Coonoor and Gudalur have been printed. The owners of the vehicles may approach the police stations pertaining to them and showing relevant papers to the police officials, can get a sticker for their vehicle. The sticker system will be implemented from April. 
 
 “During the flower show, last year, over 10,000 vehicles came to Ooty town. With only two main roads running through the hill town with a radius of just three kilometers, managing such huge crowd of vehicles is a real problem,” Rambha pointed out. “We are also planning for parking lots for tourist vehicles during the tourist season in Ooty,” he added.
 
