The mega success of the ' ' franchise has set an example – not just for Indian cinema, but also for the small screen, which is now looking beyond mythology for period dramas. Several TV shows inspired by the films are reportedly being planned. However, one of the shows has a stronger connection to the films. Titled ' ', the upcoming show has been written by Bahubali’s scriptwriter  , director  's father. The show is being shot as a finite series and will have   and   in the lead. Veteran actress Tanuja will also play a pivotal role.

  Karthika, who was in Delhi recently, plays the warrior princess Devasena – and her character is based on that of Anushka Shetty's in the films, also named Devasena. Karthika tells us, "Aarambh is about a clash between the Dravidian and Aryan civilizations. Devasena is a princess who is born in a matriarchal society and inherits the kingdom after her mother's death. She is the queen of the Dravidian clan. It was interesting to learn about the matriarchal society that used to exist thousands of years ago. Now, such a society can only exist in the fictional world. The show's story is fictional, but with references from history. I think it is time that TV should have period dramas that go beyond mythological stories."
 
  
  Karthika Nair plays a princess in the upcoming show 'Aarambh', which is written by   writer KV Vijayendra Prasad. The actress took some time out to take a stroll in Old Fort on her recent visit to Delhi (BCCL/ Samik Sen)
 
  Karthika says that it will be wrong to compare the movie and the TV show as they started shooting the latter much before 'Baahubali 2: The Conclusion'. "The only similarity between the show and the movie will be that both have a character named Devasena. In the show too, she is one of the lead characters. The other common factor is writer KV Vijayendra Prasad, who wrote the show's story as a movie script. He was essentially writing thinking that his son Rajamouli would direct it. But the story was so vast and intense that a three-hour film couldn’t have done justice to it. So it was decided that the script will be made as a finite TV series," says Karthika.
 
  
  
 
  Since this is her first TV show, Karthika made sure that the character she is playing "looks real and relatable." She says, "In our shows and films, kings and queens are only shown as superior beings who talk and walk in a certain way. I did not want to do that. The other thing which I was very particular about was that I should not be shown wearing makeup even while sleeping, as is the case with most actresses on daily soaps. Despite being a queen, I don’t really have to be decked up in heavy jewellery all the time – and that is a huge relief. Even my outfits are not very complicated."
 
  
  
 
  The actress who grew up in Mumbai was in Delhi recently and took some time out to visit Old Fort. "I have a faint memory of visiting monuments in Delhi as a child with my father. I have been only coming to Delhi to meet friends – I haven't even got a chance to shoot here yet. Delhi is something that people in Mumbai always dream about when they think of space – this city is not as cluttered as Mumbai. I want to see Delhi winters and I think winter is the perfect time to explore Delhi," says Karthika.
 
 
  
  
 
 
