PUNE: After a   at the Pune railway station, a visibly tired Colonel   finds comfort in the   at   He had gone to the station to gauge the chances of his tickets getting confirmed.

 The Tripathis were travelling to Hyderabad to watch their son Rahul play for the Rising Pune Supergiant against Mumbai Indians in Sunday’s Indian Premier League final. As the tickets were still on the waiting list, they were bracing themselves for a long, uncomfortable night on Konark Express.
 
 “My mother is 90 years old, and not comfortable on flights, hence the train journey,” the colonel explained. 
 
 “And the tickets were booked only a couple of days ago after Pune qualified for the final.”
 
 But the ‘waiting’ status doesn’t bother really the family which is used to much longer waits.
 
 “The longest wait was for Rahul, who had worked hard for many years. He is finally realizing his dream of playing on a big stage in front of big players,” the proud father said about his son, who is in his debut IPL season.
 
 “After winning the best cricketer award by the BCCI, he was hopeful of making the Indian team. But that didn’t happen. Hopefully now his talent will get noticed,” the colonel said. Rahul had won the M A Chidambaram Trophy for best U-25 cricketer in 2014.
 
 In fact, Rahul’s was a last-minute inclusion in the 351-player list for the IPL auction this year. “He was recommended to the Pune team CEO Raghu Iyer. The team was courteous enough to conduct trials only for Rahul at D Y Patil stadium in Mumbai, and later asked the auction committee to add his name to the list, just a couple of days earlier.”
 
 Rahul went to Pune at his base price of Rs 10 lakh.
 
 A middle-order batsman and a fast bowling option for Maharashtra otherwise, Rahul is enjoying his role as opener for the Pune franchise. “I am not surprised that he is opening for Pune. He has always played with a straight bat and hits perfect cricketing strokes, which suits an opening role,” Ajay said.
 
 The armyman attributes Rahul’s success to his coaches at Deccan Gymkhana, Hemant Athalye and Kedar Joglekar. “But I feel Maharashtra Cricket Association secretary Riyaz Bagwan made him play fearless cricket. Rahul used to play big shots in the nets, but used to play under pressure in the matches. It was Riyaz sir, who asked him to play without fear,” he said.
 
 Rahul’s sister Rupali, 21, represents Maharashtra in basketball at the national level.
 
 His mother Saroj looks forward to the journey to Hyderabad. Sunday will be one of the biggest days of her life. “I was always known as the colonel’s wife all my life. I am called addressed as Rahul’s mother now. What else can I want?” she said. 
 
 As the talk comes to an end, the colonel gets an SMS. The tickets are confirmed.
 
 
