NOIDA: A seven-year-old student of Class II died after receiving head injuries allegedly during a karate session at   in Noida Extension on Tuesday. The girl, Gazhal Yadav, was taken by the school to a private hospital in Greater Noida, where she died during treatment.

 Her father, Lal Chand Yadav, said he was at work when a school teacher informed him on the phone that his daughter had a “headache“ and needed to be taken home.
 
 “After half-an-hour, I received another call. The school informed me that Gazhal was bleeding from the nose and she was being admitted in  ,“ said Yadav, who is general manager (operations) with a private company.
 
 Yadav rushed to the hospital and found Gazhal in the ICU. “My daughter's face had blood stains. She was also bleeding from the nose and mouth. The doctors said she was no more,“ Yadav said.
 
 Yadav said he did not get any medical certificate from the hospital stating cause of death but suspected that she was injured during the karate session and did not get proper medical care in the school. A spokesperson for Kailash Hospital said the child was admitted in a very critical condition. “She had head injuries. She was admitted in the ICU and we tried our best to save her. She had suffered blood loss and succumbed to her injuries,“ he said.
 
 According to a student in the same class, Gazhal was practising at the karate session when she was injured.“The security guards then took her to a hospital,“ the boy said.
 
 Gazhal's family members, meanwhile, performed the last rites of the child without an autopsy being conducted.“We did not want a postmortem on our dear child. We loved her a lot,“ Yadav said.
 
 He said that on Tuesday he was shattered and not in a condition to talk to the police.“I could not save my daughter.But I do not want this to happen to any other student. I will visit the school on Thursday and ask the school management about the truth behind the death. If their response is not satisfactory , we will register a case,“ he said.
 
 Meanwhile, the school was shut on Wednesday , following the incident. Jyoti Arora, the school principal, was not available for comment.Karuna Jadaun, a teacher in the school, said, “The student was in karate dress but she was not participating in the session.“ When asked about the cause of Gazhal's death, she disconnected the phone.
 
 Sujata Singh, SP (rural), Gautam Budh Nagar, said she had directed the Eco-Tech III police to investigate the matter. Awdhesh Awasthi, SHO Eco-Tech III, said he visited the school and found it closed.“We questioned the security guards about the incident.The school management officials have not been contacted.We will question them after the school reopens on Thursday ,“ he said.
 
 According to the school's website, it runs under the aegis of  , whose chairperson is Louise Khurshid and the mentor is Salman Khurshid.
 
