Hung against black backdrop and illuminated with lone white light in the background, each frame in the dim gallery seemed like a small screen in a dark movie theatre. Pan your eyes from left to right and you will see multiple such screens filling up your senses with monsoon’s grandeur — every frame celebrating the season.

 Titled “Monsoon Greens”, the photography exhibition showcases Telangana’s landscape through drone-captured pictures. “It's a cinematic experience through still pictures. It’s an endeavour to explore the landscape around Hyderabad during this season,” says 35-year-old photographer   as he takes us around the hall at   picking one picture at a time and explaining how and when it was captured. “I shot the project about a month ago around places such as Vikarabad, Ananthagiri Hills, Kotepally Lake and   among others,” he says, adding that monsoon in the outskirts of Hyderabad, away from the concrete structures, has a different tone to it.
 
 This is one of the first photo exhibitions in the city to showcase drone-captured stills. Aquin opines that when you try to explore a particular terrain from diverse angles, the same subject speaks differently to you. “Ï could have used a straight angle and I am sure the pictures would have come out great, but that’s tried and tested, hence I decided to use a drone and the results are for everybody to see,” he says.
 
 “Nature is a three-dimensional entity. And the sooner you realise it as a nature photographer, the better it will be for you and your art,” says Aquin, who has his exhibition on till July 29. To use a drone for top-angle shots has its limitations and Aquin says that many photographers won’t try it despite having a great visual imagery. Why? “Firstly, it’s an expensive affair. But the real challenge is to capture the desired frame within a time span of 20 minutes at one go,” he says.
 
 But as they say, technique never calls attention to itself, his magnificent frames masquerade all the hard work that went behind it. But Aquin attributes all the credit to the “interesting” terrain of  . “Telangana blooms in monsoon. It really does; the greens, the festive mood; as if it’s a celebration. The geographical demography too responds — the otherwise arid and silent rocky terrains suddenly communicates with you during this season,” he avers. 
 
