AURANGABAD:   MP Ravindra  , who is facing criticism from different quarters for assaulting an Air India staffer, has a below-average performance on key parameters as a Lok Sabha member from Osmanabad.

 Gaikwad has a 66% attendance in the LS as against the state average of 79% and the national average of 81%. As far as his recent presence in the LS is concerned, Gaikwad has a mere 21% attendance during the ongoing budget session of Parliament and 57% attendance during the winter session in 2016. The only scoring point for the leader was his cent per cent attendance during last year’s monsoon session of Parliament, a record maintained by PRS Legislative Research.
 
 Gaikwad has also been lagging behind in asking questions in Parliament, averaging 173 queries as against the state’s average of 371 and national average of 180.
 
 The leader, however, has raised queries on a wide range of issues dealing with the lives of both the urban and rural population. Different ministries along with the Prime Minister’s Office were made answerable by Gaikwad in what could be termed as quality questions. 
 
 Some of the key topics on which Gaikwad had posed queries include pending proposals under rural schemes, minimum wages, assistance for irrigation projects in the state, sugarcane dues, closure of textile mills, development of the  , promotion of the MSME sector and hoarding of pulses, child/bonded labour, spurious medicines and Naxal activities. 
 
 Gaikwad, who was a college teacher, also raised pressing questions related to the education sector, including the mid-day meal scheme in private schools, irregularities in medical institutions, vocationalisation of secondary education and private school fees. 
 
 When it comes to debates in Parliament, Gaikwad’s participation is again on the lower side. He participated in an average 25 debates as against the state and national averages of 45.5 and 46.3. 
 
 Some of the debates in which Gaikwad has participated include the demand for more currency to cooperative banks, terrorist activities in Marathwada, restoration of Veer Savarkar's name plate and quotation in Andaman Jail and reducing the minimum export price for onions.
 
 Gaikwad is yet to open his account in terms of tabling a private member’s bill. On an average, an MP from Maharashtra tables 2.6 such bills.
 
 While Gaikwad could not be reached for his comments, Osmanabad district Sena president Anil Khochre said the MP has a greater connect with the masses in his constituency. “This speaks for a lot more than compiled statistics. The voters are satisfied with their public representative as he has raised a range of issues affecting their lives. It is strange that nobody pointed a finger at him before the recent Air India episode,” he said.
 
