KOLKATA: The city is ready to bid adieu to a mild winter — when the mercury had dropped to a lowest of 11.2°C — and is now entering the transition phase that will lead gradually to summer. In a week from now, winter will be gone, according to the Met office.

 With the parameters essential for winter gradually fading away, it’s time to embrace the transition phase, which usually lasts a week to a fortnight. On Monday, the minimum and maximum temperatures crossed 16°C and 28°C, respectively, indicating the passing of winter. 
 
 “Going by the prevailing conditions, it doesn’t seem likely that the mercury will plunge anymore. It will now inch upwards, paving the way for the arrival of summer. We are now in the transition phase when the minimum and maximum temperatures gradually spiral up. It is not a sharp one though, and it could be at least another week till we can officially declare that winter is over,” said  , Regional Meteorological Centre director.
 
 Last year, the city had an early onset of summer, which turned out to be a long and gruelling one. In March last year, the maximum temperature had touched 38°C and the city reeled under severe heatwave in the second week of April. Even though May is the hottest month in Kolkata, average temperature in April was higher. “Last summer was an unusual one during which the temperature had shot up very early. The number of nor’westers, too, was low,” said a Regional Meteorological Centre official.
 
 The official added that winter generally bows out from Kolkata by the second week of February. “There have been exceptions, though. At this period, the only factor that can bring the chill back is a revival of the north-westerly, which is now going weak. It could lower the temperature by a degree or two. Even though the prevailing conditions don’t indicate such a possibility, it can’t be ruled out either,” said the official.
 
 But winter would linger in other parts of south Bengal, pointed out weathermen. The districts will continue to have lower temperatures till February-end. “In the districts to the west of Kolkata, winter lasts longer. So, they experience a longer period of chill,” said a   scientist. The   predicts a 2°C rise in maximum temperature between February 7 and 12. The mercury could touch 31°C on Tuesday, drop to 30°C a day later and spiral back to 31°C on Thursday, he added. 
 
 
