NEW DELHI: The censor board came under fire by the film fraternity on Friday for its decision to refuse certification to the award-winning film “Lipstick Under My Burkha”. The board had objected to alleged “audio pornography, sexual scenes and abusive words” in the film.

 The decision was sharply criticised by prominent filmmakers and actors who described it as censor board chief Pahlaj Nihalani’s “arrogance”. Nihalani, however, defended his decision, saying the film had very long explicit scenes and portrays phone sex.
 
 While refusing to certify the film, a communication by the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) to producer Prakash Jha said, “The story is lady oriented, their fantasy above life (sic). There are contaniuous (sic) sexual scenes, abusive words, audio pornography and a bit sensitive touch about one particular section of society, hence film refused (sic).”
 
 Film director Alankrita Shrivastava condemned the ban and lashed out at CBFC, saying that the decision was an assault on women’s rights and she would do everything to ensure that the audience got to see the film. “I am not defeated, disheartened or disillusioned by the CBFC’s refusal to certify ‘Lipstick Under My Burkha’. I am more determined than ever before to ensure that ‘Lipstick Under My Burkha’ can be watched by Indian audiences," she said.
 
 The filmmakers plan to approach the Film Certification Appellate Tribunal against the censor board’s decision.
 
 Protesting against the CBFC’s decision, Jha directed his ire at the idea of censorship rather than Nihalani. “This problem (of censorship) will persist till the time the power and freedom to censor is given to someone. CBFC consists of some members who have their own thinking and they interpret the guidelines according to that. The problem stays irrespective of who the CBFC members are. It's not because of Pahlaj Nihalani. This can be solved only when we get past censoring and talk about certification.”
 
 “Lipstick Under My Burkha”, which stars   and  , was first screened at the MAMI Film Festival in 2016 and has won the Spirit of Asia Prize and the Oxfam Award for Best Film on Gender Equality. Oxfam said that the film was picked because it “creatively and effectively takes on marital rape, religious orthodoxy, sexuality of older women and, more importantly, women taking agency over their bodies.”
 
 Slamming the censor board’s decision, filmmaker Sudhir Mishra said, “Can you not depict female desires? And what do you mean by audio pornography? If you see the objections minutely, are they saying that if a woman expresses her desire, the CBFC is there to put a curb on that? Indians can handle stuff and take their own decisions about things. The CBFC is only entitled to warn the audience about certain things in a film, not stop the audience from seeing it.” Actor-director   added his voice to the protest, tweeting, “Below is the reason CBFC listed for denying #LipstickUnderMyBurkha a release. Keep your barf bag ready…”
 
 “Masaan” director Neeraj Ghaywan tweeted that the film was being “mansplained over being ‘Lady oriented’. Irony!” CBFC member Ashoke Pandit also condemned the board’s decision, calling it an act of arrogance by Nihalani, while actor Renuka Shahane tweeted that the certification was denied for “unfathomable reasons”.
 
 Despite the scathing criticism, CBFC chairman Pahlaj Nihalani said, “The film was first refused a certificate by the examining committee and after a show-cause was issued to the producer, they made an application to have it viewed by a revising committee — a larger committee. The revising committee headed by me unanimously refused a certificate. The idea of the film may be of women empowerment but the depiction and presentation showcases obscenity and vulgarity and there was no scope to even give cuts and clear it. For instance, it has scenes of ‘phone sex’ and many explicit scenes for long durations at regular intervals. In keeping with the guidelines and keeping in mind the impact the film may have, it was unanimously refused. The filmmaker can approach the tribunal now.’’
 
 CBFC member Mamta Kale justified the board's action, saying that the movie had abusive language. “The kind of content and the abusive language they have put in the movie is unacceptable and they should not have done this,” she said.
 
 This is not the first time that CBFC or Nihalani are in the eye of a storm. Since 2015, films like “Fifty Shades of Grey” and “Mohalla Assi”, documentaries like “India’s Daughter”, on the Nirbhaya gang-rape accused, and “Battle for Benaras”, based on the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, have been denied certification by the board.
 
 Faced with frequent controversies, the Union information and broadcasting ministry had constituted a committee under filmmaker  . The recommendations, including reconstituting the CBFC as a certification authority, were submitted to the ministry in April 2016 and are still under consideration.
 
 
 
 
 Under the Cinematograph act, the CBFC guidelines say that the film must be judged in its entirety. The board must ensure that it does not deprave the morality of the audience, dual-meaning words that cater to baser instincts are not allowed, nor are scenes degrading or denigrating women, or those showing sexual violence against women, sexual perversions.
 
