PUNE: The city recorded excess rain in each month of this monsoon from June to September, India Meteorological Department ( ) data indicates.
The monsoon is set to begin its withdrawal from this week from parts of northwest India.Its retreat from   begins in early October.
 
 The monsoon's performance in the city this year has been robust, with each month recording surplus rain. The rainfall in September for the city too has crossed the normal quantum with 126.5mm of rain as against a normal of 120mm.
 
 Pune has already received double the September rain in comparison to its performance in 2016 when it had received a deficient 58.5 mm rain.
 
 The city recorded the highest surplus in June at 72mm, followed by August at over 50mm. Though Pune received above normal rain in July and September, the surplus was 6mm to 7mm in these months.
 
 A senior IMD official told TOI that surplus rain during each monsoon month does not happen every year. “Despite the subdued rainfall spells during the season, we witnessed some peaks, which more than made up for the deficiency . During late August, there was continuous rain which exceeded 2cm in a 24-hour period. On September 9, 10, 11 and 16, monsoon rainfall again peaked in Pune,“ the official added.
 
 The reappearance of the off-shore trough in September while the monsoon trough had shifted southward brought rain. Before this, the monsoon trough shifted to the north, which caused subdued rainfall in many parts of the country .
 
 In the last11years, close to five Septembers ended with less rainfall than that recorded for the same month this year. Six Septembers were better than the month's quota this year.
 
 A K Jaswal, scientist (retired), IMD, said the surplus rain is indicative of year-to-year fluctuations in the monsoon.
 
 “Further analysis of past data is required, but such a phenomenon--not just in Pune but in other locations too--is apparently a signal of warming environment. When the atmosphere warms, it tends to accumulate more moisture and can result in rain. But such showers are spatially uneven, with some regions getting excess, while others get deficient rainfall,“ he said.
 
