BAREILLY: Since   took charge as chief minister of  , senior district-level officials have been attending three to four   on a daily basis chaired by the CM, his ministers or senior bureaucrats, leaving them with very little time to attend to their routine administrative work.
 
  “During the rule of the previous government, there were hardly two or three video conferences in an entire week. Now we see three to four of them every day. There has certainly been a change in work culture at the state government level,” said district informatics officer,  .
  
  Administrative officials, however, are far from pleased. An additional district magistrate in Bareilly said that having meetings with senior bureaucrats or ministers, and attending video conferences, were two completely different things.
  
  “Every other day, we receive instructions from the secretariat to attend a video conference on different issues. In the conference, officials from all 75 districts in the state watch you very carefully. A minor mistake or a matter of lack of information on your part on any issue raised at random by the chair may put you in an embarrassing situation in front of the camera,” the ADM said.
  
  According to officials, it’s a cumbersome task to gather all the information needed in a very short span of time for the agenda set for a video conference. “Indeed, our routine work is being affected to a certain extent, because we spend our time preparing for these conferences,” the ADM added.
  
  For a video conference held on July 26, the officials were given a 13-point letter on which they were asked to provide detailed information.
  
  “It is true that now the frequency of video conferences has been increased manifold compared to previous regimes. I am quite sure that no former chief ministers, whether it was Akhilesh Yadav, Mulayam Singh Yadav or Mayawati ever chaired any video conference. Yogi Adityanath has attended video conferences on three occasions,” Sharma added.
  
  According to the district  , the cabinet minister along with the principal secretary of the department concerned attends the video conference of district-level officers.
  
  “On Thursday, it was a video conference of the electricity department. State power minister   chaired it along with the chief secretary,” Sharma said.
  
  The district informatics officer also gave a different argument to support the video conferences. “No doubt the frequency has increased but it saves lot of time and expenditure as DM and ADMs now don’t need to run to Lucknow only to attend a 15-minute meeting with the CM and the chief secretary. Officials who now have reservations about the excessive video conferences will be comfortable after a couple of months, for sure,” Sharma added.
