PUNE: Intoxicated rowdy strangers, loud music playing until late into the night, smoke emanating from chimneys round-the-clock and haphazard parking are only a few problems vexing residents living close to newly opened bars and pubs in   on  .

 The area’s metamorphosis into a party hotspot has not gone too well with some residents of Baner Road. They speak of being fed up with the nuisance created in the   of their homes because of five pubs that have set shop in a building over the last six months.
 
 In fact, those living in nearly ten ‘affected’ residential   have created a page, titled ‘No Bar at my Dwaar’, on a social media platform. The page is an effort to raise support for their cause. 
 
 On Saturday, the residents apprised local MLA   of their problems and sought her intervention in the matter. Newly elected corporators Amol Balwadkar, Swapnali Saikar and Jyoti Kalamkar were also present. In the evening, the residents also presented their problems before municipal commissioner Kunal Kumar.
 
 Elaborating on their concern, the convener of the social media page said, “Our main concern is the residents’ security, especially women and children, who find it difficult to step out of their homes in the evening. Recently, a drug deal was busted outside one of these pubs and, not long before that, a bar employee was murdered in the vicinity. We are not against the pub culture. We only want these to shift to a place more suitable for this kind of business.”
 
 Another affected resident Dheeraj Agrawal said, “The bars have messed up the lives of over 400 families. Dark smoke emanates from their kitchen chimneys from 11am until about 2am everyday. Loud music can be heard in the evening and there is complete mismanagement of traffic and parking.”
 
 The situation is particularly bad on weekends, another affected resident said. “Our children’s safety is compromised. They can no longer play in the open. We do not want to be surrounded by this kind of rowdiness,” the resident shared.
 
 Kulkarni said, “The problem seems to be of encroachment and illegal use of space. I will take up the issue with the district collector and ascertain how permission was granted for such activities in a residential area. We will also appeal that the bars’ permission to operate is not renewed. As a temporary relief, we will put up a compound wall to separate the commercial complex from the residential societies.”
 
