HYDERABAD: For the first time in the 33-month rule of TRS, a united opposition on Saturday shocked the ruling party by boycotting the debate on the resolution to thank the governor for his address to the joint session of the   and  . 

 The trigger was the suspension of two TDP legislators, A Revanth Reddy and S Venkata Veeraiah, on the pretext of their 'unruly' behavior during the governor's speech on Friday. When Speaker S Madhusudhana Chary announced the suspension of these two members for the entire session, the opposition parties, including   and  , raised objection.
 
 They pleaded with the treasury benches not to be so harsh with political rivals in the Assembly. Congress floor leader K Jana Reddy and BJP leader K Laxman requested the government to take back the suspension order. When the TRS leadership refused to budge, the Congress and BJP MLAs staged a walkout from the House stating that they are boycotting the 'dictatorial' attitude of the government.
 
 The move to punish the TDP legislators actually paved the way for the opposition to unite and pose a threat to the ruling party ahead of the budget presentation on Monday. "If they continue to boycott the Assembly on Monday, it would be great embarrassment to the government," pointed out a senior TRS leader.
 
 Talking to TOI, Congress state president N Uttam Kumar Reddy ruled out any change in their decision to boycott the Assembly till the suspension of TDP members is revoked. "The TRS government does not like any voice to be raised against it. The undemocratic way in which the two TDP members were suspended for just voicing their protest shows how dictatorial the ruling party has become these days," said Uttam. 
 
 TDP leader Ravula Chandrasekhar Reddy said the two TDP members had not even moved out of their seats. "For no reason, our members have been suspended. It seems the state government does not want to see TDP MLAs in the House," said Ravula.
 
 Meanwhile, TRS leaders tried to reach out to some of the opposition leaders to pacify them but when the latter refused to budge, legislative affairs minister T Harish Rao consulted   to finalise the future course of action on budget day.
 
