So much has happened in the last 100 days, and those who have been oblivious to the news from the outside world ever since they stepped into the house of   Kannada  , are surely in for a shock of sorts when they finally come out of the reality game show next weekend.
 The finale is scheduled to be an action-packed show to say the least. “Of course,   in his trademark style will handle the show well with both humour and serious questions. But what we are looking forward to is the reaction of the contestants when we update them about the demonitization issue, J Jayalalithaa’s death and Yash and Radhika’s wedding. We will be quizzing them on these topics so it’d be interesting to hear their views,” says Parameshwar Gundkal, business head and spokesperson.
  Speaking about the high points, and the lows, this season, Parameshwar tells us, “There have been dramatic changes in the house. In the beginning, quite unlike the previous seasons, two contestants were unexpectedly cornered — one is  , whom nobody knew and the other is Malavika, who’s a known name. What made the other contestants keep them away is a fact only they are privy to.” But their graph has remarkably changed in the weeks that followed. “Pratham has mellowed down and   has displayed much maturity once she got a hang of the game,” says Parameshwar.  , on the other hand, has been one of the most consistent players this season. “Her behaviour has been the same for the past 93 days. Shalini and Keerthi meanwhile, began the show with much gusto, but audiences feel they are slowly losing steam,” says Parameshwar.
  Bigg Boss didn’t instigate contestants this season: It is only in season four that the creators moved away from the set format of instigating the contestants in the tasks. “We didn’t give many secret tasks to the players as we did in the earlier seasons. Bigg Boss has maintained his silence and was extremely non-interfering thus letting the players decide the course of the game,” shares Param.
  But he does confess that this is the first time that the makers faced a huge challenge as the contestants began taking the game very seriously. “We hadn’t seen this kind of ego clash until now. Some of them had even studied the show in much detail before they went for the show. Many of them were making calculated moves, so it got a little tough for us,” he states.
