JAIPUR: Before second anniversary of   projects celebration on June 25, the four cities — Jaipur, Udaipur,   and Ajmer would see completion of various development works.

 Around Rs 6,729 will be spent under smart city projects in four cities of the state. Local self government ( ) principal secretary, Manjit Singh on Saturday said that before second anniversary of smart city project, works of Rs 265 crore will be conducted, while works of Rs 550 crore will be in the progress.
 
 According to LSG, in Jaipur Rs 2,401crore, in Udaipur Rs 1,221crore, in Ajmer Rs 1,948 crore and in Kota Rs 1,456 crore will be spent under smart city projects.
 
 In Ajmer only, 38 projects will be carried out under smart city project, which include heritage conservation, painting project, open gym, cycle sharing project, e-bus project, LED lights project, construction of cultural park, statue-sculpture project, cycle and walking track project, heritage museum construction and smart class room project.
 
 Officials said that before second anniversary of smart city projects, works of Rs122 crore will be completed in Udaipur, while works of Rs 967 crore will be under progress. In Kota, works of Rs 90 crore will be completed and Rs 715 crore works will be under progress. In Ajmer, Rs 95 crore would have been spent on development works before second anniversary of smart city projects, while Rs715 crore works would be under progress.
 
 In Jaipur, 50 projects worth Rs 821 crore under smart city project will be completed in the current financial year. Such projects include 10 projects of smart mobility, smart heritage and tourism, 16 projects of smart infrastructure, 10 projects of smart solid waste management projects. In Jaipur, applications for tenders of four projects including smart road, smart solution, smart class rooms and smart solid waste management have already been invited. 
 
 In Udaipur, it is planned to start functioning of 55 projects in current financial year, which will cost around Rs 1,100 crore. The projects include public transport, smart water supply, smart parking, solor rooftop power plant and construction of control and command centre.
 
 
