MALDA/KOLKATA: A full-grown leopard sneaked into Uttar Dinajpur's Raigunj on Monday morning, triggering panic in the north Bengal town. It could be trapped and tranquillized by foresters only around 5pm, after it hid in a house in the town's  . For almost 11 hours in between, it played a cat-and-mouse game with hundreds of chasing locals, NGO workers and cops, injuring 15 people in the process.

 Raigunj does not have forest cover that can be considered ideal for leopards and no sighting of a big cat has ever been reported from the green patches around it. Foresters believe the animal crossed over from Bihar.
 
 A similar incident of a leopard straying into an urban settlement — Siliguri — was reported two years ago. Experts fear the endangered species is fast losing ground due to rapid urbanisation. A recent survey by   has put the leopard population in India at 12,000-14,000. At least 50% of the number live outside protected areas and are vulnerable to conflict with humans.
 
 The leopard was first seen moving around Raigunj jail located close to Indira Colony around 6.30am. As word spread and curious people converged on the spot, the animal started looking for cover and moved into Indira Colony . By the time the cops arrived and declared prohibitory orders, hundreds had gathered in the area.
 
 “Every time we tried to capture the animal using nets, it managed to escape. In the process, it injured eight of our volunteers and seven others. The big cat panicked due to the presence of so many people,“ said Goutam Tantia of Uttar Dinajpur People for Animals, which led the rescue operation till the foresters arrived from Sukna.
 
 At Indira Colony , the animal first hid next to the toilet of a house owned by Haripada Sarkar. “It attacked and injured Sarkar as he went to the toilet after waking up in the morning,“ said a resident.
 
 Forty-year-old Biplab Saha, whose house the leopard was finally trapped in, said he spotted the animal around 8 am.
 
 “I saw it running around aimlessly in our locality. I immediately took my sister and nieces to the terrace. Around 11am from the terrace, we saw the leopard enter Abhay Barui's house, just opposite ours. It soon came out, but had injured Barui. The local NGO members were waiting outside with nets, but the animal managed to dodge them and enter our house and hide in one of the rooms. One of the residents locked the door from outside,“ Saha said. “Our team from Sukna reached the spot later in the day and tranquillized the animal. It will be brought to Mahananda and released after treatment,“ said chief wildlife warden Pradeep Vyas, who believes the animal strayed from the forests of Bihar.
 
 Bihar, according to a Wildlife Institute of India study , is currently home to around 32 wild leopards. Experts believe more live outside the protected areas of the state.
 
 According to data collected by   (WPSI), a whopping 436 leopard deaths have been reported in the country in 2016.This includes 154 cases of poaching. Six leopard deaths were reported last year from Bengal.
 
