BENGALURU: Former   judge Justice P   is set to be the next Lokayukta after his name emerged as the unanimous choice at a collegium meeting here on Monday .

 Despite a standoff between chief minister Siddaramaiah and opposition leaders for over a year, the selection of the new Lokayukta was smooth. The anti-corruption watchdog has remained headless since the unceremonious exit of Justice   in December 2015. In the two previous meetings of the high-level committee, the government failed to build a consensus.
 
 With a year left for the assembly elections, the government did not want any embarrassment on this score and wanted to ensure the appointment was free of controversy . The committee dis cussed the names of Justices Shetty, NK Patil and Anandbyra Reddy for the post.
 
 The collegium comprises Siddaramaiah (also its chairman), Karnataka High Court Chief Justice SK Mukherjee, assembly speaker KB Koliwad, legislative council chairman DH Shankaramurthy , and leaders of the opposition in both houses of the legislature, Jagadish Shettar and KS Eshwarappa. Unlike in the case of Justice SR Nayak, whose appointment as Lokayukta was protested by the opposition, Justice Shet ty's name was accepted by BJP leaders.“We're happy with the choice,“ said Eshwarappa.
 
 “One name will be recommended to the governor,'' the CM said after the meeting, but declined to divulge it. The governor's approval is awaited now.
 
 The selection of the new Lokayukta may not bring much cheer to the common man. The institution, once a model for the country , has been reduced to a grievance-redressal cell after the government withdrew police powers held by the institution. Notwithstanding the protest from anti-corruption campaigners, the government withdrew the powers to book and investigate corruption cases against politicians in 2016.
 
 The government created a new   (ACB), headed by a police officer reporting to the government, turning the Lokayukta into a toothless tiger. “Why would anyone go to the Lokayukta knowing it cannot do much other than serving notices,'' asked an RTI activist.
 
 Karnataka was hailed as the first state to create an independent Lokayukta in 1984 with powers to investigate legislators and ministers. The late Ramakrishna Hegde, as chief minister, brought the State Vigilance Commission, headed by a police officer, under the Lokayukta's purview as the commission was not functioning to the government's satisfaction. The image of the anti-corruption agency took a beating during Justice Bhaskar Rao's tenure following reports of alleged corruption and extortions in its office.
 
