KOZHIKODE: The corporation authorities are all set to launch a dedicated team of women volunteers `cancer swanthana sena’ under the Jeevanam project of the community development society of the   to render free   services to cancer patients. The services will be launched exclusively for women.

 Considered to be first of its kind, the team of 150 volunteers will render the service from February 4.
 
  Their work includes conducting house level survey in the corporation wards to identify women with suspected symptoms of breast and ovarian cancers, compilation of the collected survey data, conducting awareness programme, co-ordinating the cancer detection camps and providing help to women detected with cancers till the completion of their treatment. 
 
 They will also conduct house-visit to increase the morale of the cancer patients to face the emotional and physical hardships.
 
 The volunteers group was formed with the expert guidance and training given by an expert team comprising Dr   of Malabar Cancer Care Centre , Kannur; and Dr P A Lalitha of Malabar Hospital Eranhipalam and experts of   , Thalassery with the help of Eksat-HRD training and research institute of the Kudumbashree.
 
 M V Ramsi Ismail, corporation Kudumbashree project officer said the volunteers will visit the houses of women detected and detecting with various types of cancers on getting calls. 
 
 “Training to volunteers who were selected from more than 3000 Kudumbashree neighbourhood groups was already completed,’’ he said.
 
 “Corporation also sought the help of transport Minister   to provide fund to purchase a vehicle so that the volunteers can rush to the houses of cancer victims on getting calls. 
 
 We are also planning to introduce a helpline number so that cancer patients can make use of the services of volunteers to share their problems with the volunteers,’’ said Ramsi Ismail.
 
 Though the Jeevanam scheme was launched in 2011, it was discontinued following the transfer of the then Kudumbashree project officer to other department in 2014.
 
 
