Vadodara: Will the Baroda Cricket Association (BCA) get a new in-charge president or will the cricketing body decide to manage without any head till its elections are announced? 

 The association’s managing committee is set to meet on Tuesday to discuss the   Committee’s recommendations and prepare a status report that is to be sent to the  . 
 
 It will be probably for the first time that there will be no elected president or vice-president to chair the meet. 
 
 Interestingly, the four BCA managing committee members including Chirayu Amin, Sudhir Parab, Dr Jitendra Patel and Pradeep have not been invited. “They haven’t been informed as according to Lodha committee’s recommendation, anyone above the age of 70 can’t be associated with the management. It is not necessary to intimate anyone as the   verdict is clear,” said a BCA official. 
 
 Managing committee member, Sudhir Parab, 74, however, said, “I respect the Supreme Court order and hence I will be resigning soon. But it was BCA’s responsibility to inform us as to why we were not invited to the managing committee meet. We have put in years of hard work for the association.” 
 
 A managing committee member said, “It is possible that a senior former cricketer or either of the office-bearers may be asked to chair the meeting where we will possibly discuss about ineligibility of certain members, new temporary appointments and pass a resolution.” 
 
 The BCA has to inform the BCCI about its office-bearers’ eligibility and send affidavits of the current management clarifying about the conflict of interest part by Wednesday. Managing committee member, Jatin Vakil, however, said that, “It is mandatory according to BCA constitution to circulate agenda before four days of the meeting. But no agenda has been given yet. Those dominating the committee circulate the agenda at the last moment and pass resolutions by majority.” The association is currently caught in a tricky situation as Samarjitsinh Gaekwad, who was elected as president, was sacked during an AGM last year following which he filed a suit against the BCA managing committee. Vice-president Dr Jitendra Patel was made in-charge president but he too now is ineligible. 
 
 The two posts of vice-presidents are vacant and the two key posts of secretary are being occupied by unelected appointees. The only important post occupied by an elected office-bearer Amul Jikar is of treasurer.
 
