KOZHIKODE: The politically and communally sensitive areas that fall under the limits of   district will fall under   soon. The rural police will join hands with the traders to   in front of their shops in the area to prevent the movement of   at night. 

 The new district chief of Kozhikode (rural) MK Pushkaran has already met the traders of Kuttiady regarding the installation of closed circuit television cameras. The plan is to curb anti-social activities in the region to make Kuttiady to a violence-free zone.
 
 "Traders here have agreed to cooperate with us," said Pushkaran. Our focus will be to intensify surveillance, be it camera surveillance or police patrolling and avoid situations those could pave the way for political and communal clashes, he added.
 
 Frequent incidents of bomb explosion at Kuruvantheri and other regions in the rural district is expected to come down with this move. The movement of two-wheelers and strangers can be identified on installing surveillance cameras. The new district police chief will also give thrust to arresting the identified accused in several political violence cases reported in the area.
 
 "It is important that accused who were identified by witnesses be arrested at the earliest to prevent further clashes. Investigation will be strengthened to identify the accused in other cases," he said, adding that police will intensify patrol in the region. Suspected vehicles will be inspected and persons will be interrogated.
 
 When asked about the support of political parties to prevent violence in the region, the new district police chief said that most of the attacks were carried out without the knowledge of the party leadership. However, the leaders take up the issue once their workers get involved in such incidents, he added. 
 
 "We can witness a change in the attitude of the people and many want peace in the region. Coordinated efforts are required to bring back peace here," he added.
 
 Pushkaran, who was a sub inspector of Nadapuram police station in 1989 and a circle inspector at Kuttiady in 1996, hopes to settle political issues in the region more effectively by making use of his previous experience. 
 
 
