If you were a fan of   Sports Club and saw them train for the first time last week at the Miramar beach, you would have been encouraged.
 
   , the club’s longest-serving player and now coach, was at the centre of it all, egging the players to put their best foot forward, even though it was well past the stipulated 90 minutes of training. The players didn’t mind the exertion but as the session grinded to a halt with a game of foot-volley, the truth emerged.
  
  It wasn’t encouraging.
  
  Turns out, Dempo officially have less than 10 players on their roll, if you excuse the juniors. Most who were training that Monday morning were yet to put pen to paper – Joaquim Abranches, Nickson Castanha, Beevan D’Mello and Tyson Caiado, to name a few – while the most impressive defender, Mohamed Ali, has since been snared by FC Goa at the Indian Super League ( ) domestic player draft.
  
  Then there are players like Mathew Gonsalves on trials at the club, trying to catch Samir’s eye. The rest are juniors, whose success can never be guaranteed.
  
  “We are in the process of building the team. We do not have a complete squad as yet but everything should fall in place in about a week’s time. The uncertainty over the ISL domestic player draft is now over and we will know which players are available,” said Samir, who has now been handed charge of the team with an ailing Mauricio Afonso yet to recover fully.
  
  At least in these early days of taking charge, Samir may not have been completely ready for this challenge. The uncertainty over player availability is another concern, but the former India full-back has been left in no doubt that Dempo will be ready to take on the best in business when the Goa Pro League kicks off later this year.
  
  “We should be ready. We have some young players who, if groomed properly, can make heads turn. They are eager to prove themselves, so it’s a good sign for all of us,” said Samir.
  
  Personally, Samir will want Dempo to hit the ground running. Assistant to Mauricio for the last two years – also doubling up as a player – Samir picked up his lessons fast. But now he is all on his own.
  
  “My playing career was entirely different to what I have to do now. As a player, I just had to focus on myself, on my game. Now, it’s a different ball-game. There are so many things to look at; you have to look at an entire group with different mentalities, different approaches. It’s not easy but am loving this,” said Samir, who has completed the first part of his   A coaching licence course.
  
  Samir admits he was never inclined towards coaching, until three years ago when he enrolled himself for a C coaching licence course at the Duler stadium in Mapusa. It was, like he says, a learning experience. Dempo, at least this season, will need more of that.
