PATNA: Chief minister   on Thursday said Bihar’s demand for the framing of national policy on desiltation of the Ganga and clearance of silt in the state is not a political issue, as the matter is related to larger environmental and biodiversity issues facing the people.
 
  “The adverse effect of siltation in the Ganga is also affecting other states,” the CM said while addressing the two-day national seminar on ‘De-siltation in the Ganga: problems and solutions’, organised by Bihar water resources department (WRD) at India International Centre, Delhi
  
  He added, “Concrete steps have to be taken to ensure incessant flow of the Ganga. Otherwise, cleanliness of the river is not possible.”
  
  Referring to the need to protect biodiversity, he said conservation of the Ganga dolphins is dependent on the cleanliness of its water. He added the Farakka barrage constructed across the river in   has led to slow flow of water between Buxar to Bhagalpur, and consequent annual flood and waterlogging during the monsoon.
  
  Nitish recalled the devastating flood that the state had witnessed in the Ganga basin last year and said Bihar had spent Rs 1,058 crore over the last five years to prevent soil erosion. He appealed to the Centre to frame a sound policy on silt management, stressing that it should be prepared by making on the spot survey and assessment of the prevailing situation. Nitish said even the report of the committee headed by Madhav Chitale had accepted the problem of siltation facing the Ganga.
  
  He hoped that the seminar, whose outcome would be called Delhi declaration as a follow up to the international seminar held at Patna in February this year, would prove helpful, as it would come out with a slew of steps that could be taken up to address the problem.
  
  Bihar WRD minister   alias Lalan Singh said the problem of siltation had emerged as a national issue as it would also engulf the states like Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand.
  
  Among others who appreciated Nitish’s move and also insisted the problem needed to be addressed were Supreme Court retired Justice V Gopal Gauda, former Union minister  , Swami Abhimukteshwaranand, environmentalist G D Agrawal and water activist Rajendra Singh.
