CHENNAI: In a few months,   in Chennai will get their   credited to their   similar to that of cooking gas subsidies.

 State power utility Tangedco is all set to submit a proposal to the   (TNERC). Once it's approved, the facility would be introduced in Chennai as a pilot project. “ As per the smart city proposal, power subsidy must be deposited directly into the consumer's bank account. Chennai city consumers will be the first to have this facility. Before the project is rolled out, accounts of power consumers will be linked to their repective bank accounts,“ said a senior Tangedco official.
 
 Domestic power consumers in TN get two types of subsidies from the government. Soon after the tariff was increased in December 2014, the government said there would be no tariff hike for domestic consumers up to 500 units. Similarly, soon after winning the assembly election in 2016, the then chief minister J Jayalalithaa announced that first 100 units consumed by domestic consumers would be free of cost. In both these cases, the consumers will have to first pay the full amount without any subsidy . The government will subsequently credit the subsidy in the consumers' bank accounts.   government had to pay `8,131.56 crore to Tangedco as subsidy for do mestic consumers, farmers and huts last year.In the current year, the budget has estimated the subsidy to be `8,538.14 crore.
 
 “It may be bad news for consumers as they will have to pay out of their pocket at the first instance. But for Tangedco, its cash flow will be better, because the government provides subsidy only towards the end of the financial year.We suffer cash crunch during a major part of the year,“ said the official.
 
 There are 1.92 crore domestic consumers in Tamil Nadu. Out of them, at least 75 lakh to 80 lakh domestic consumer connections are in Chennai city. “Out of the total revenue for Tangedco, nearly 60% comes from domestic consumers. As of now, the plan is only for Chennai city. Later, it may extended to other cities that have proposals to develop smart cities,“ he said.
 
 
