A New Year resolution? Not for  . She has her reasons for that. “The idea of making a resolution just scares me. I feel what if I don’t keep up to it... then I’ll end up disappointing myself,” says the beautiful actress. As she gears up for her next, 'OK Jaanu', she talks about her camaraderie with  , her link-ups in Bollywood and why the recent rumour about her moving in with   is baseless. Excerpts... 

 
 Absolutely not. For me, each day is special. When you are entering a new year, there is a lot of excitement; actually it’s more optimism. So yes, I am looking forward to that surge. 
 
 
 Yes they are, but it’s not bogging me down. People have liked the trailer and the songs, and there is a positive feeling around the movie. There are a lot of people who are excited about Aditya and me coming back together on the big screen.
 
 
 We have an amazing comfort level and camaraderie, which I feel will reflect in the film. Aditya is totally chilled out and a lot of fun to work with. At the same time, he gets totally involved in his work; he is very passionate about what he does. When you work on a movie, you are linked with your co-star. That’s something I have no control over. I don’t focus on it at all.
 
 
 I got a message from someone telling me about this article, and initially, I was amused. While it doesn’t make a difference to me because I know it’s not true, it’s sad that these false stories go so far that people forget we are human, too. Of course, we are actors and there will be people who would probably want to read something gossipy about us, but when it involves my father, my aunt and my co-star, it’s taking it too far. 
 
 
 Well, I was even linked with Aditya for a while! Like I say, actors are linked all the time. But when family members are dragged into it, it’s taking it to another extreme. Yes, I am living in... with my parents! I was born and brought up in this house. It’s a joke within the family that I will bring my husband home (laughs). It’s because I’m so happy living with my family. I have a house of my own where I have my meetings and keep my extra stuff. I have no intention of moving out of my parents’ home and moving into my own apartment, let alone someone else’s! About live-in relationships in general, I believe in live and let live. If it suits somebody and someone is happy, then it’s totally fine — to each his own.
 
 
 My parents are very protective and strict with me and I love that because I am equally protective and strict with them. How much of a say they will have... well, like any parent, they would first see if I am happy. I know they will be supportive of whatever makes me happy. 
 
 
 The beginning of my career was a difficult phase. It’s not easy when two of your films don’t do well and you are trying your best to get work. At one point in my career, I was very close to giving up. I was also young and to experience that kind of struggle was not easy; it took a toll on me. I am thankful to my parents who helped me bounce back and encouraged me to pursue my dream. Not just my parents, everyone in my family — my brother, aunts, cousins — stood by me. We all are really close and in tune with what’s going on in each other’s life.
 
 
 I do consider myself an actor-singer. I have wanted to be an actor since I was a kid. But just the other day when I was going through my school slam books, I realised that in each one, I had written something different. In one book, I said I wanted to be a fashion designer; in another, I wanted to be a businesswoman and something else in the third! But if not an actor, then maybe I’d be doing something in the field of travel. I really enjoy it.
 
 
 
 It surely was disappointing, but demonetisation had a role to play in the fate of the film. Also, maybe people were not able to connect with it. But you have got to do what you got to do, pick yourself up and get going. 
 
 
 I am extremely moody. I am quite an extremist. For the last one-and-a-half years, I hadn’t taken a break from work. Sometimes, I struggle to find a balance and that’s something I want to sort out. 
 
  
  
