Malappuram: LDF is likely to field P P   as its candidate for the upcoming assembly election in Vengara constituency. The candidature of Basheer would be formally announced on Sunday, after state committee meeting of the   to be held at Thiruvananthapuram.

 P P Basheer was the LDF candidate in the same constituency in 2016 assembly election and he was defeated by P K Kunhalikkuty of Muslim League by 38057 votes. Basheer, who is currently Tirurangadi area committee member of CPM, is a leading advocate and state committee member of All India Lawyers Union.
 
 It is learnt that the district secretariat meeting of the party held at Malappuram on Saturday has recommended the name of Basheer as the candidate in Vengara and the state committee meeting would finalise the decision.
 
 Earlier the district secretary of the party P P   had said that the party will field a candidate with strong local support in the constituency. Though the part considered the names of M B Faisal who contested in recently held Malappuram LS bypoll, the secretariat meeting in which the state secretary of the party Kodiyeri Balakrishnan attended, decided to field Basheer. The party has also dropped its earlier plan to rope in an independent candidate in the constituency.
 
 Responding to media after the meeting, Kodiyeri Balakrishnan said that that the result of Vengara byelection cannot be considered as the assessment of the performance of the LDF government.
 
 The bypoll in Vengara would be held on October 11. The Vengara seat fell vacant when national general secretary of IUML P K Kunhalikutty resigned as MLA to contest in the   bypoll in Malappuram constituency in April which was necessitated by the demise of E Ahamed.
 
 UDF and   are likely to announce their candidates next week. In an election related development, the IUML had suspended the national general secretary of Muslim Students Federation (MSF), the students’ wing of the party over an FB post demanding representation for youngsters in Vengara assembly constituency. The IUML is planning to field senior leaders KPA Majeed or KNA Khader as the UDF candidate.
 
