NEW DELHI: Inmates of Children Home for Girls in Nirmal Chhaya Complex have chronicled horrific abuses in their letters to Delhi State Legal Services Authority ranging from forceful injection of chemicals to invasive body searches carried out by home staff. However, Delhi commission for Women has claimed that even though the government had ordered immediate transfer of six officials, no action has been taken.

 The inmates had written to DSLSA detailing the   meted out to them, including cases of  . Inspections by   revealed horrific details of the home’s treatment of the girls. The letters written by the girls contained stories of repeated beating, and cases where they were forcefully injected with a chemical to make them appear older than their biological age. The girls complained that injections gave them severe body pain and interfered with their menstrual cycle. 
 
 Some letters also chronicled abuse on girls as young as five, and checks conducted to ascertain if the girls were indeed menstruating when requests were made for sanitary napkins. Complaints said several suicide attempts were made by the inmates, but instead of helping them, the girls were tied up and beaten by a house mother.
 
 The inmates also complained that full body checks were carried out on them on entry and exit of the homes. At times their private parts were pressed under the pretext of security checks by the home staff, the girls complained.
 
 During its inspection, DCW noticed an extreme shortage of staff, to the extent where one cook was commissioned to serve 140 girls. In some instances, inmates were forced to cook for themselves. Some girls complained that their food cooked by the staff was spiked with sedatives.
 
 Following this, another surprise check was carried out by DCW, in which girls complained of having been beaten up for talking to the commission officials.
 
 After the inspection, DCW chief summoned the WCD director and met Manish Sisodia, who ordered transfer of six officials. Though the commission claims no action has been taken till date, government officials said proceedings have been initiated against two officers.
 
 An FIR was registered after the commission forwarded the letters to the police and sought intervention of the commissioner on the matter. “It is shocking that despite the FIR being registered against the erring staff and deputy CM ordering immediate transfers, the officers concerned are present in the home,” said Swati Maliwal, DCW chief.
 
 Meanwhile, a senior official of the DSLSA said that the allegations made by the inmates of shelter homes will be taken up with the authorities concerned. “Legal aid will be provided to the victims through the advocates. We will also request the Child Welfare Committee to take necessary action,” said the official.
 
 
