  : Businessman Moninder Singh   was taken into custody on Saturday after a CBI court convicted him in one of the serial Nithari rape and murder cases of 2006. Pandher and his domestic help Surinder Koli were both convicted of kidnapping, raping and killing 20-year-old Pinky Sarkar. 

 Special judge Pawan   Tiwari, who delivered the verdict, will announce the quantum of punishment on Monday. This was the eighth of the Nithari serial rape and murder cases in which Koli, who has already been sentenced to death, has been convicted. 
 
 "The CBI court held Koli guilty under sections 302 (murder), 376 (rape), 364 (kidnapping) and 201 (disappearance of evidence) of the IPC. The court also held Pandher guilty in the same case under all sections that Koli has been found guilty of. In addition to these, Pandher has also been found guilty under Section 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC by the court," said public prosecutor J P Sharma.
 
 Pandher was also held guilty in 2009 in the Rimpa Haldar case and was awarded the death sentence by the CBI court. He appealed against the judgment in the Allahabad high court and was acquitted in 2011. In this particular case, the CBI had not named Pandher in its original chargesheet but the court had named him a co-accused and issued summons to him under Section 3198 of the Criminal Procedure Code. 
 
 Pandher's lawyer Devraj Singh said his client would appeal against Monday's verdict in the higher court. "Pandher was never named in the CBI chargesheet in this case and the CBI's investigation had proved Pandher had left for Dehradun on October 5, 2006, from his Noida office and returned on October 10, which in turn proved that Pandher was not involved in the Pinky Sarkar case," Singh said. 
 
 According to the CBI chargesheet, Koli had confessed to having lured Pinky, who was returning from work, into the house on October 5, 2006, killed her, dismembered her body, and dumped the body parts in a drain in the rear of the house (D-5, Noida Sector 31). Koli had revealed the spot to a police team from where 15 skulls, body parts, including those of Pinky and her clothes, were found. Pinky's parents had later identified her clothes. 
 
  Koli was charged in 19 cases out of which the CBI filed a closure report in three for want of evidence. That leaves 16 cases against Koli. Out of those 16 cases, the CBI court has held Koli guilty and awarded him the death sentence in eight cases. 
 
 
