At a basement bookstore in the heart of Ernakulum,   resident Anjali Johnathan-who was on a visit to Kochi-tightly held a small stack of children's books as she examined a large collection  's Famous Five that was published 75 years ago. She was one of few people who rummaged through Blossom Book Fair's gigantic collection that was left untouched this year. 

 She was long past the age of Blyton's evergreen character's George, Julian, Anne, Dick and Timmy, who did not mind an adventure or two, filled with curiosity, fun and suspense, but that did not stop her from picking up her favourite books. The Famous Five always overcame antagonist, who tried to steal a treasure or a scientific experiment, during their holidays.
 
 "My son is just three months old," said Anjali, who plans to read Blyton's Famous Five to him, just like her parents did so while she was a toddler. She hopes that it may kindle a similar reading habit in him over time.
 
 Lateef, who runs the bookstore, said Blyton's books used to be sold out during vacations. "I have five boxes filled with Enid Blyton's books that are untouched in the store room. The books will start moving, once NRI kids arrive," he said.
 
 Today, the picture-heavy 'Detective Rajappan' (local name of Italian publication, ' ') has over taken Blyton's stories. "Kids studying in Classes III-VII are those who prefer Blyton's books. Books like 'Geronimo Stilton' are quite popular among younger readers. But, many kids did pick a copy Famous Five this summer," said  , librarian, Ernakulam Public Library. She said that Blyton's books - which encouraged most Malayalis to read English books - have now taken a backseat.
 
 "I picked up my first copy of Famous Five when I was in grade II. I was immediately fascinated by this world, which was alien to me; the English countryside. Concepts like county and characters like George," said former Collector of Kozhikode Prashant Nair. 
 
  "The concept of good and bad was gradually introduced in Famous Five with simple characters and eloquent English. Ideas of evil were not dropped all of sudden onto the children's lap. The language was so kind and polite. Today, especially in Malayalam cartoons, the language is so poor. It is almost as if they are trying consciously depreciate the quality of language among kids," he said recollecting his school days.
 
 Malayali parents still have a soft spot for Famous Five. "My sister, who lives in Canada, buys a large set of Enid Blyton books, every year during her visit. Though Famous Five might not see a large hike in sales, it will sell and children will always read it. In bookstores, there are two eras: pre-Potter and post-Potter. But Blyton's book always flew off the shelves, regardless of this demarcation," said Chithrasenan, manager of Modern Books.
 
