JAIPUR: In a major crackdown, the police have arrested 14 persons, including six players for their alleged involvement in cricket   fixing and spot fixing on Thursday.

 Recently, the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) had informed the Jaipur police that a gang is involved in a tournament —   — being held in Jaipur from July 11-21. It is not just the cricket lovers of the city who are witnessing the game by visiting   but also a lot many cricket enthusiasts are watching live on a sports channel which telecast the matches. 
 
 On Thursday, Jaipur police conducted raids in four hotels of the city and allegedly recovered Rs 38.47 lakh from their possession while arresting 14 persons for their alleged involved in match-fixing and spot-fixing. 
 
 “Anti-Corruption and security unit of BCCI complained that Rajputana Premier League is being organised at K L Saini Stadium in which six teams are participating. For spot-fixing and match-fixing in the tournament, Wazir Khan and Bahare Khan have reached Jaipur. These two persons are hand in gloves with organisers, players and umpires for match-fixing, spot-fixing and through bookies they are getting benefits from the tournament,” deputy commissioner of police (DCP), crime branch, Vikas Pathak told TOI. 
 
 Pathak said that acting on the complaint of BCCI, they investigated the matter and arrested the accused persons. Since, the tournament is being telecast on a sports channel, it hurts the sentiments of cricket lovers who are watching it live. 
 
 The police claimed that they had conducted through investigations by taking help of technical experts, ground reports and analysis of match telecast before arresting the accused persons. “In the investigation, we found that the gang has members who were playing as players in some of the teams. On the direction of their bosses, they deliberately get out or whatever their bosses give them direction they follow it — like bowling no balls or getting out in a particular over,” Pathak said. 
 
 The arrest persons belong to Punjab, Haryana and two of them belong to Jodhpur. 
 
 In the initial investigation, police found that a meeting was held on June 24-25 in Delhi and Gujarat of some people in which Wazir and Bahare also participated. 
 
 Police said that Wazir responsibility was to rope in umpires and players who do whatever he directs them to do. 
 
 Making use of walky-talky, he allegedly sent messages to the umpires for spot-fixing and match-fixing (giving out-not out, no balls) after receiving directions from his bosses sitting in Delhi. 
 
 The police said that as bookies lost huge amount, they demanded that the match (played on July 19) should ended without any result in win and loss. So, the match ended in a tie which nullified all the deals. 
 
 Bahare Khan alleged was involved in management of hotel, ground and team selection. 
 
 Prior to arrest in Jaipur, the police claimed that they were allegedly involved in match-fixing and spot-fixing in Southern Premier League Hyderabad, North India Premier League Noida and Asian Premier League Kathmandu. 
 
 The arrested persons are Wazir Khan (36), Bahare Khan (32),   (30), Rajesh Pareek (25), Pawan Kumar (28),   (24), Irfan Khan (21), Anandeep Kapoor (28), Gurmeet Singh (25), Amandeep alias Sonu (26), Jatin (32), Lovpreet (25), Kamal (36), Manoj (27)
 
 Police have seized Rs38.47 lakh cash from them, 18 mobile phones, two walky-talky and a laptop from their possession. They have been arrested under Section 420, 120B of IPC. 
 
