KOLKATA:
 The City of Joy is perhaps the capital of tax avoidance through stock market dealings, indicated   chairman  . The chief of markets regulator also put the onus on state governments for checking proliferation of ponzi schemes in the initial stages.
 
  Sinha was here in Kolkata for an interactive session with the members of Bharat Chamber of Commerce. This has assumed significance following   and   scam where a number of politicians have been implicated.
  
  According to Sinha, there is a large numbers of investors and brokers are taking stock market route to avoid tax. “We have passed orders in case of 200 companies and handed over details to the income tax department. There is a question mark on income worth Rs 10,000 crore. In this episode, Kolkata was highly over-representated,” he added.
  
  The Sebi chief pointed out that these operators are using long term capital gain law to avoid incidence of tax. “We have seen that disproportionately large number of operators in the city are doing this,” he added. Sebi chief take the instance of a company whose share price has gone up from Rs 5 to Rs 500 but its turnover remained below Rs 5 lakh. “We are analysing such companies whose share prices have gone up abruptly and more than the group indices and then we looking at their balance sheets. In many cases, we have found anomalies in share prices and the fundamentals of the company,” Sinha added.
  
  When asked about the responsibility of the capital market regulator to check mushrooming of ponzi schemes, Sinha made it clear that lot of state governments including   have come out with investor protection act so it is now equipped to handle such schemes at the initial stages. Incidentally, under the new law enacted in 2014, any ponzi scheme raising more than Rs 100 crore and which is not coming under any other regulator, will automatically come under Sebi’s jurisdiction.
  
  The Sebi chief made it clear that the surveillance now is much better than 2010-11 (when maximum ponzi schemes raised money). “We have state level co-ordination committees with respective state governments, headed by the respective chief secretaries and representatives of Sebi, RBI and other regulators. Co-ordination between the states and the regulators is now much better. But it is an ongoing battle which is yet to be own,” he added.
  
  It may be noted that there was allegation earlier that ponzi firms took the opportunity in the gap in the law between different regulators like RBI, Sebi and   (FMC) for raising money from hapless investors.
