GURUGRAM: Chief minister   sought to lift morale in the BJP’s local unit by underscoring the improvement in the party’s numbers in MCG, from four councillors in 2011 to 14 in the just-concluded election. The CM’s visit to the city came just two days after Sunday’s setback in the MCG polls in which Independents — many of them BJP rebels who were denied a ticket — walked away with the honours, and the seats. They won 20 while the BJP managed just 14. 

 Khattar also ridiculed the performance of his political rivals. “Last time,   won 20 seats but folded up to just six seats this time and INLD won six seats last time but got just 1 seat now. On the other hand, BJP won just four seats in 2011 but that count increased to 14 seats this time. I can claim that the mayor will be from BJP only,”   said.
 
 Congress, however, did not contest the election on its symbol. It backed some Independent candidates, and had done the same in the last election. The political climate in 2011 was also very different, with Congress in power in both Haryana and the Centre. Now, it’s BJP that runs both these governments.
 
 Khattar also believed the performance of Independent candidates was thanks to the lack of an opposition, not shortcomings of BJP. 
 
 He said it was a cause for concern that there was practically no opposition, due to which so many Independents won. “We did not expect the opposition to be so weak and almost non-existent,” he said.
 
 According to sources, the CM held a meeting on Monday night in   in Delhi with Haryana BJP general secretary   and state executive member  , seeking reasons for the unexpected show. “In the meeting, the sub-committee that was formed to decide ticket distribution was blamed for the way in which it handled the entire exercise. The CM was informed that because the right candidates were not awarded tickets, there was so much infighting that ultimately resulted in the shock result,” said a source.
 
 Haryana Congress president Ashok Tanwar asked the CM to look at the “bitter truth”. “Despite it being a clear verdict against BJP and the chief minister himself, he is being unapologetic by saying they increased their tally from four to 14. The bitter truth is that they did not even reach the halfway mark of 18 and have been rejected by the people. The result is a clear verdict on the three-year tenure of the BJP government in the state.”
 
 The INLD too hit out at Khattar. “BJP and the CM had claimed that they will win all 35 MCG seats but failed miserably despite the fact the CM himself came to campaign in the municipal elections. It is a verdict against BJP and the chief minister,” said its leader Gopi Chand Gehlot.
 
