CHANDIGARH: While Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP government in Haryana might be claiming transparency in public appointments, candidates, who appeared in the exam for   (HCS) held last year, are struggling hard to get the information about the selection process.

 In some cases, despite categorical directions of the Haryana State   (SIC) to the recruiting agency —   (HPSC) — to provide answer sheets of HCS exam held in April 2016 to the unsuccessful candidates, the agency has failed to provide the information.
 
 Accusing the HPSC for making mockery of the RTI Act and the claims of Haryana government of restoring transparency in public appointments, one Navdeep Singh Suhag of Rohtak has asserted that all the public service commissions in the country are providing answer sheets of the civil services examination except HPSC.
 
 In his application, filed before state information commissioner Major General (retired) J S Kundu, the applicant has sought initiation of contempt proceedings against the HPSC for not providing him information.
 
 Suhag had filed RTI application before HPSC on July 21, 2016 seeking information for released of answer sheet of HCS examination-2014 concluded in 2016 and result of which was declared on July 5, 2016. On refusal of HPSC to provide the information, he had filed an appeal before SIC. In its reply before SIC, the HPSC had taken plea answer sheets cannot be provided on account of stay granted by   on February 17, 2012 in a similar plea.
 
 After examining the pleas of both the parties, the SIC, in its January 4, 2017 order, directed HPSC to provide answer sheets in conformity with recent SC orders, passed in Kerala Public Service Commission Versus The State Information Commission and others, holding that the disclosing marks and the answer sheets to the candidates will ensure that the candidates have been given marks according to their performance in the exam. 
 
 According to Suhag, despite categorical directions by SIC, the HPSC again denied him answer sheet on the same and old ground which was effectively rejected by the Information Commission.
 
 In a similar case, one Hawa Singh of Karnal district had sought information regarding the marks obtained by selected candidates in geography, public administration, math, law, physics, botany and sociology in the HCS examination held in 2016. On January 27, 2017, the SIC had ordered the HPSC to provide information to the applicant.
 
 As the HPSC failed to provide information, Hawa had also filed a contempt petition for compliance of orders on which the information commissioner has sought reply from the commission.
 
