GURUGRAM: Three people have been booked allegedly for fraudulently taking money by trying to resell a   in  , which had already been acquired by MCG.

 Charu and Sanjay Bakshi, residents of Nirvana County in Sector 50, and Satyapal, a property agent, have been booked following a complaint by Bharam Singh, who claimed he was duped of Rs 62 lakh he paid to the trio to get a plot registered.
 
 Bharam Singh, resident of Mandi in Delhi, told police the Bakshis had approached him over a   of Rs 2.75 crore for a piece of land around 4 acres (37 kanal, 9 marla) on December 6, 2001. He had paid them Rs 40 lakh in January 2014 via two cheques, and two further instalments — Rs 10 lakh in February 2014 and another Rs 10 lakh in April 2014 — as advance for the registration. 
 
 Singh told police that subsequently, Charu Bakshi had told him that Sanjay had to travel out of the country for an emergency, so she had signed on some of the property documents on Sanjay’s behalf. She also promised the registration would be completed soon after Sanjay was back, but kept postponing the matter. She also allegedly connected Singh with Sanjay over the phone as consolation.
 
 According to Singh, the agreement was signed in February 2014. As per procedure, the registry was to be completed within the next 90 days, which did not happen. Later, a tout named Satyapal got involved and took Rs 2 lakh as commission to expedite the registry process. According to Singh, he has so far paid a total of Rs 62 lakh, without getting the property registered.
 
 He also said he kept going to the Bakshis’ residence, who said they would return his money eventually, but later threatened to kill him if he kept pestering them.
 
 ASI Jaipal of City police station said that during preliminary investigation, they found the land in question in Gwalpahari now belonged to MCG. It had been transferred from the panchayat at the time the corporation was formed. Thus, the couple must have used fake land documents to enter into an invalid agreement, solely to extract money from Singh.
 
 An FIR was registered on Saturday under sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery for the purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record), 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC. 
 
 “We are investigating the matter and gathering evidence. Arrests are yet to be made,” said Jaipal.
 
