 is empowerment. Feminism is a dirty word. Feminism is political. Feminism calls for a post-gender society. Feminism is overrated. Well, feminism is a lot, but feminism is here, and it is imperative that we teach ourselves, consciously, what feminism is. But more importantly, we must also teach ourselves, and our next generations, what feminism is not. Because,  , as Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie’s much celebrated essay urges us to be. 

 The title of the book has found resonance recently in high fashion. And thus, it has caught the eye of the world. The simplicity of the sentence, put forth with much ease, is what has turned it into such a catchphrase. It’s like saying, ‘we should all be honest’ or, ‘we should all live life to the fullest’. The straightforward confidence of the sentence makes us equate being   with something that comes as naturally to us, as say, being alive, #noconditionsapply. However, in a world colluded with political, social and economical vendetta, the word feminism is regularly misconstrued. So, we decided to do some soul-searching and analyse what being a feminist entails, and more importantly, what it doesn’t. 
  
 Does me taking on my husband’s surname after marriage make me a non-feminist? What about choosing to take a break from job to look after my baby? Or, maybe, choosing to cover up my bare legs if I sense an unwanted gaze on me? In an ideal world, no. What would make me a non-feminist is, if I were to impose my opinion on name change on someone who doesn’t want to take on her husband’s name, just because I think it’s the ‘right’ thing to do. The point with feminism is, it challenges the ‘right’ notions that have been crafted by men, while advocating equal social, economical and political opportunities for all genders. Thus, feminism gives me choice — to live my life my way, no conditions applied, where I don’t have to go by what the society deems ‘right’ for me. Of course, goes without saying, as long as I am not hurting anybody else. Thus, if I choose to be a stay-at-home mom, feminism says that it’s my prerogative. As long as I am not being forced to quit my job, and as long as I am not forcing someone else to shoulder my responsibility, my choice represents my ability to take my own decisions. Feminism. Similarly, in an adverse situation, if my choice is to cover myself up, that does not demean my worth as a feminist. Because feminism calls for a world where such situation would not exist. In the feminist utopia, a person does not act, or is not reacted to, in any way that concerns their gender. 
 
 Thus, exposing or covering up is not the point of feminism (Case in point, Emma Watson's recent magazine cover). Pink-shunning is not the point of feminism. Candle marching is not the point of feminism. The point is the availability of the same choices for women as there exists for men, no conditions applied. That is why, whether or not I chose to burn my bra, or go for a push-up one, whether or not I chose to paint my baby girl’s room pink, or actually go for blue, and whether or not I light a candle in solidarity with any human being, irrespective of their gender, feminism gives me the right to choose #noconditionapply. 
 
