HYDERABAD: From today's government to today's cinema -   of the Hyderabad Literary Festival (HLF 2017)   pertinent to the   in the country. While Saturday morning on the   campus saw acclaimed journalist-turned-author Arun Shourie kick-off a debate on the ‘character of a leader' and what followers must bear in mind while choosing them, the dialogue later veered towards India’s democratic systems. 

 By evening, movie star   and film-maker Nandini Reddy had turned the spotlight on present day Telugu cinema which was increasingly distancing itself from local literature and meaningfulness. While Shourie steered clear of taking names of these ‘leaders’ who he described as ‘narcissistic’ and ‘charming’ to hide their own insecurities, it wasn’t tough to guess who his primary target was. “One must be careful of these things as they reflect the character of the government,” said the former BJP leader, who has been extremely critical of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government. 
 
 Shourie faulted Centre’s many moves including coal auction to demonetisation. “Do you think people having black money will keep the cash in India?” the author asked sarcastically. Travelling back into history – as if drawing parallels between Indira Gandhi and Modi – he listed out the ‘four criteria’ that allowed a leader to enter ‘Mrs Gandhi’s inner circle’. “He needed to be a weak man, a compromised man, a willing henchman and a salivating person,” Shourie said, while hailing Mahatma Gandhi as the only leader who surrounded himself with people who were ‘experts’ and not ‘second-grade’.
 
 “Don’t cooperate if you think the regime is not desirable. Disassociate,” he said to a packed hall, which erupted in laughter when he concluded by saying he wasn’t talking about the current leaders! The reaction was the same when popular movie star, Prakash Raj, at another session, ensured the audience that his soon-to-released Tamil film, Sila Samayangalil, “will not do any business”. “I promise it will not run at the theatres. That’s because we as a society have lost the culture of listening. All of us think we know more. I released it here (at HLF) because the event comprised a cultured gathering – a rarity these days,” Raj said. 
 
 Defining ‘meaningful cinema’ (the subject of conversation) as a piece of work that connects with the audience and ‘leaves an experience’, famed film-maker Nandini Reddy said how ‘popular’ Tollywood today is fast moving away from that. “Earlier, literature used to sow the seeds for cinema. Now there is no literary base for movies . Not only do we not have a fresh crop of writers, but also our movie makers today do not read. This is not the case with Kannada, Tamil or Malayalam movies,” she rued, hoping for a change in the near future.
 
