NEW DELHI: Untouched by the anti-Congress carnage around, 
  delivered the party not merely its sole victory but many felt also the roadmap for rebuilding in the face of a Modi wave. 

 The victory under the leadership of   offered a few lessons to the   leadership at a loss for ideas to stem the slide that has continued since the 2014 Lok Sabha decimation.
 
 There were 
  . The resilience shown by the local unit in rebuffing the challenge from AAP is seen as critical.  's outfit had already embarked on extending its experiment to other states which are bipolar between BJP and Congress, positioning itself as a substitute for Congress. After Punjab, its first destination was supposed to be Gujarat.
 
 Now, 
  at the hands of Congress in Punjab is sure to dim its appeal outside as the natural home of the protest vote.
 
 But importantly, the victory has been swiftly interpreted in Congress circles as holding a crucial takeaway that the party needs to groom state satraps with personal appeal.
 
 Amarinder did not have it easy as he nearly bolted when Rahul refused to accede to his demand to be given the reins of the state unit. But once Rahul gave in, he ran a methodical campaign. The same had happened with Virbhadra Singh ahead of Himachal Pradesh elections. Many felt the model needs to be followed in other states where the "old guard" is facing impediments from Rahul's proteges who are yet to demonstrate their leadership. There are other states where Congress will have to show more faith in local leaders. 
 
 Congress has moved back and forth on grooming satraps. Once home to strong regional faces, the party cut them to size owing to insecurity that they were acquiring too much heft and eyeballing the central leadership. The emergence of an independent YS Rajasekhara Reddy in Andhra Pradesh and the defiant rebellion of his son Jaganmohan following his death had a sobering effect on the party brass.
 
 But many feel it is now time to give up those insecurities and let satraps grow. In the age of  's leadership, a local face is a must to take on the rampaging BJP - a reason why regional parties have been able to rebuff the saffron challenge.
 
