MUMBAI: The moderation in GDP   may further widen the gap between the number of job aspirants entering the market and the rate at which   is taking place. The situation has got staffing firms worried, and here’s why.

 According to the Economic Survey, the employment in organised sectors as on March 31, 2012, is 46.8 million. Hiring industry officials told TOI, every year, 2-3 lakh jobs get created in the formal sector. However, the total number of additional people entering the job market every year is 12-13 million, they said. The country’s   growth declined 2 per cent to 5.7 per cent in the June quarter of 2017 compared to 7.9 per cent in the corresponding quarter of the previous year. If the GDP growth declines further, it could add to the burden.
 
 As a rule of thumb, the industry believes any rise in GDP growth spurs job creation. And it’s true the other way around as well, they said. Notionally, some believe, one percentage point rise in GDP growth has the potential to create a million jobs over a period of time. Aditya Birla Group chief economist Ajit Ranade said, “It is absolutely without a doubt that the GDP has a correlation with employment and livelihood. When GDP growth rises, there would be a certain amount of job creation, and vice versa. One can debate as to what would be the exact impact on job creation, but the number of around a million jobs per 1 per cent of GDP growth looks reasonable given that 12-13 million people enter the   every year.”
 
 It’s not quite music to the ears of placement firms.   country manager & MD Priyanshu Singh said, “We have had a great run of 15-20 years with mass employers like IT/BPOs. Now they have hit a wall. We are sitting on this ‘demographic dividend’ with around a million people joining the workforce every month. How will you provide these guys jobs? Every month we add a million people wanting jobs. Compared to the total number of jobs created in a year, it’s a big mismatch.” 
  
 
 
 Singh believes the GDP will pick up again, but the challenge is to create jobs fast enough and economic growth alone is not enough. “We also need to reskill our people and ensure there is empathy and dignity of labour so that not everyone wants to become an engineer or an MBA. Things have to be redone otherwise this ‘dividend’ is mostly a disaster. Can we turn it around? For sure. May be it’s a minor disaster (which can be averted),” said Singh.
 
  MD Thammaiah B N said while he has not seen the decline in GDP impacting the firm at present, “it may do so in the near future if past trends of GDP to job relation are to be followed”.
 
 Crisil chief economist Dharmakirti Joshi said job creation also depends on sectoral growth. “Last quarter, when GDP growth fell, certain labour-intensive sectors like manufacturing and construction did not do well. Moreover, if you look at the last couple of years, GDP growth was not driven by labour-intensive sectors but by financial services, telecom and other services sectors like IT/ITeS/BPO. So job creation did not keep pace with GDP growth. Now, even if the GDP grows faster, there are other factors playing on job creation, such as automation and labour laws.”
 
 Hiring experts, however, said manufacturing, pharma & healthcare, telecom and learning & education sectors have witnessed increased hiring in 2017. Terming the slowdown as “temporary”,   MD & CEO Paul Dupuis said, “We expect the impact of demonetisation to fade and GST mechanism to stabilise. We expect the status quo of moderate economic expansion to continue till September 2017 and growth to return in the last quarter of the year on the back of a good monsoon and the festive season bump.”
 
 While stating that the action bias shown by the policymakers makes one hopeful of the future as well as “greedy for more”,   co-founder & executive VP Rituparna Chakraborty said, “Eradicating regulatory cholesterol and creating easy access to capital and infrastructure is the only way forward. The key challenges in our physical geography of work are urbanisation and regional disparities. Most of our job creation is happening in a handful of cities that are incapable of taking in more people. Smart cities need to become a reality to alter that course. The key challenges in our sectoral geography are low manufacturing employment, high agricultural employment and excess self-employment. ‘Make in India’, ‘Ease of doing business’ needs to move from their hashtag status towards ground reality.”
 
 Not everyone agrees there’s a connection between GDP and job creation. Motilal Oswal Securities chief economist Nikhil Gupta said, “I believe even if there is a thumb rule on job creation and GDP growth rate, it does not necessarily always apply to India. In the past, during some periods, there was hardly any positive correlation.”
 
 
