CHENNAI: When   won the   in the summer of 2015 by a margin of over 1.5 lakh votes, it was not by chance or design. S Marimuthu, a resident of  , explained why the local residents overwhelmingly voted in her favour.

 “She was the chief minister. After she won, we realised what it is like to live in the chief minister's constituency,“ said the 32-year-old isthiriwala (ironing man). “In a matter of weeks, our streets became brighter with LED lights. We had  , neatly laid roads and the conservancy staff picked up garbage thrice a day . If we had any problem, all we had to do was to dial the   (scheme launched by Jayalalithaa) and register a complaint. The problem used to be resolved within a day,“ he added.
 
 Four months after her demise, her loss is felt by the locals. At a time when the city is fighting water scarcity, parts of RK Nagar have had to burn the midnight oil for their supply. “We get water at 1am. If we miss, then we don't have water. All residents depend on private tankers because ground water is saline and is not easily available,“ said 58-year-old Shastri Nagar resident, Abdul Shukoor.
 
 Though it is part of the Greater Chennai Corporation, RK Nagar has struggled to shake off the town panchayat image. It has no employment opportunity. But for E Madhusudhanan, who was R K Nagar MLA between 1991 and 1996, sewerage connection and water supply could still have been a pipe dream. For that reason, the AIADMK (Puratchi Thalaivi Amma) candidate is still held in high regard by the residents.
 
 Madhusudhanan's tenure was the last time RK Nagar witnessed any ground-level improvement, according to Kasimedu resident G Desingu. “Jayalalithaa announced many projects, but not even one has benefitted the locals,“ said the 40-year-old, who runs a petty shop by the fishing harbour.
 
 A newly constructed poly technic-cum-arts and science college in New Washermenpet remains locked. Limited access to primary health centres force locals to visit Peripheral Hospital or the Communicable Diseases Hospital (CDH) in Tondiarpet. But the travel to these facilities can be daunting considering the congestion on roads. Even highways have narrowed due to encroachments.
 
 Nataraj and Shanti, two flower vendors, contribute to the congestion crisis as they conduct their business sitting on a vehicular lane of the Thiruvottiyur High (TH) Road. They don't think voting for a particular candidate would help their fortunes. “They (candidates) make empty promises. Even Jayalalithaa was not able to deliver us the house she promised,“ said Shanti, dusting off the pollutants and sprinkling water over the bundle of roses.
 
