Twelve contracts engineers of the   (VVMC) were suspended on Sunday by their municipal commissioner after a video of them dancing at a private birthday party, allegedly along with developers involved in illegal constructions, went viral. In the  , this is the second instance in just over a week of people in authority associating with those they are supposed to monitor (see second point in graphic).

 The party , of a VVMC colle ague, was held along the Vasai coast last month, said sources.In the video, the host and guests are seen dancing to Bollywood numbers; there's food, fireworks and alcohol. So far, no developer or builder has been identified in the video. Interestingly , it went viral hours after the demolition of an illegal office of the nativist group Agri Sena in Kumbarpada, Virar (east), was stalled on Saturday by locals who threatened to commit suicide.
 
 VVMC chief Satish Lokhande, who saw the video on Sunday , took action against the 12 engineers identified in the footage with immediate effect.“There is no proof yet of them having danced with builders.However, as government offi cers, they should have acted more responsibly while partying,“ said Lokhande.
 
 A massive demolition drive in VVMC started15 months ago has shaken the illegal construction lobby . So far, over 4,500 vertical and horizontal structures have been razed. Lokhande said that as the engineers are on contract, he need not have given them a show-cause notice.An inquiry has been initiated and the officers will be given a chance to explain, he said.
 
 The engineers maintain that they had not invited any builder or developer. The internal inquiry will also try to find out if the party was funded by any developer who is under the VVMC's radar.
 
 Civic sources said the engineers are part of the special cell created to identify illegal structures. Till Saturday , the officers were busy razing illegal structures in the region. “The video may have been taken by some developer to send out the message that the demolition drive is a farce,“ said Lokhande.
 
 The engineers have worked in the region from two-ten years. With their suspension, there are only four to five engineers in VVMC now to look into illegal constructions and encroachments.
 
