KOLKATA:   directed the   to issue a permission to hold the   on the railway ground at Asansol.

 The court also rapped the municipal corporation for earlier denying the permission to the organizer of the fair that would be inaugurated by BJP MP of Asansol and Centre's junior minister Babul Supriyo. In fact, Babul had cited this as the reason behind not appearing before the Alipore police for the inquiry against him in the FIR lodged by Trinamool's Mahua Moitra.
 
 The court directed that if the Asansol civic body found it difficult to holding the fair, it would bring it to the notice of the Asansol police commissionerate. After a spot assessment, if the police did find any serious law-and-order problems, only then could they shut down the fair. The court also directed the police to deploy adequate personnel to avert any untoward situation.
 
 An NGO, Me 2 We, filed an appeal before the division bench of Justice Biswanath Somadder and  . On January 10, responding to the writ filed by ME 2 WE, alleging that the Asansol Municipal Corporation had denied them the permission to hold the Sansad Mela, Justice Harish Tandon of the trial bench directed the mayor to reconsider the prayer, without being influenced by any extraneous factors and act in a free and fair manner.
 
 But the mayor of Asansol stood by their earlier decision and denied the NGO the permission to hold the fair on the grounds that there would be performances by renowned artists and the huge gathering could cause a law-and-order problem. Me to We then moved the HC division bench.
 
 Justice Somadder asked the Additional Advocate-General Lakshmi Gupta if no cultural programme by “renowned artists“ had never been held on this ground in Asansol. “If that is the case, your CM should not be happy ,“ he said. Me to We counsel Kishore Dutta said they would then withdraw the cultural programme. The court further asked the AAG: “You are saying that stalls are crowdpullers and so, there can be law-and-order issues. But stalls will be thronged by people who want to buy things. If people are benefited, what is your objection?“ The division bench also questioned the mayor's objection to the boundary wall around the ground.“Should we ask for a report on how many fairs had been permitted and rejected on these grounds?“ the bench said.
 
 After hearing both the parties, the court ordered that the fair be held as scheduled earlier.
 
