KOLKATA: Kolkata Knight Riders' Bangladeshi all-rounder   has no complaints despite having just a single appearance in   but said he would be ready to play in Wednesday's match against   before returning home for national duty.

 Shakib played a big role when KKR won the title in 2014 but he has played just once so far this season, against   at home. He scored 1 not out and returned with bowling figures of 0/31 in that match.
 
 "I could not contribute much for the team this season. But as a team we have been doing well, that's much more important. The priority is the team, there's no scope for complaining. I hope we become champions for the third time, as I won't be around till the end the league," the Bangladeshi T20I captain said at a promotional event.
 
 Should he be selected for Wednesday's match, Shakib will play his last match of the season before joining the national team for their tri-series in Ireland in the build-up to next month's Champions Trophy.
 
 "Professional cricketers are aware that the team is made as per the requirement, especially when you have a lot of overseas players. It's about contributing. But whoever is not playing is also ready. I'm also approaching in the same way," Shakib, who is likely to be named in the playing eleven, said.
 
 KKR are smarting from their heaviest defeat of the season that came in Hyderabad, but overall they have been in great form as they have won seven matches from 10. KKR just need a win to make it to the play-offs and they can do it against RPS on Wednesday.
 
 "The whole season, we have played dominating cricket. There is confidence in everyone and winning is not a big deal for us, as we have a good record at home," he said.
 
 RPS began to gain momentum at the later stage of the tournament with Ben Stokes' maiden T20 century in their win over Gujarat Lions.
 
 But, KKR are not intimidated by RPS's resurgence, Shakib said.
 
 "We did well against them a few days ago. In IPL, every team is very competitive. Any team can beat any team. There's not much of a difference between the top and bottom-place teams. We have full faith in our team to do well."
 
 Showering praise on skipper  , Shakib said, "He's been exceptional. We have been together seven years. The way he manages the team is something great.
 
 "It's not easy to captain in franchisee cricket. Look at the results, almost every year we qualified for the play-offs. Not many teams have been able to achieve the feat."
 
 Asked about his appointment as T20I captain after the retirement of  , Shakib said: "Any responsibility is challenging for the team. I'm taking it positively. Our T20I record is not well. There's a lot to improve. We will hope to do well. In Test and ODIs, our situation was also similar but we have been doing well regularly."
 
 On Bangladesh's Champions Trophy chances, he said: "We are in a tough group. Australia and England who will be playing at home will be tough opponents. We have the confidence to do well and prove that we can do well in a world tournament."
 
 
