CHENNAI: A   killed a   by   into a motorcycle she was riding pillion on in   here on Monday evening.
Fireman S Ilayaraja, 28, held R Nivedha responsible for breaking up a relationship they had been in for seven years and believed that she had dumped him for an engineer from the city , police said.
 
 “Nivedha, a teacher at a government school in Kolavanpalaylam in Coimbatore, was riding on a motorcycle with L Ganapathi, 33, an engineer who lives in Vajravel Nagar, Kolathur, when Ilayaraja hit the motorcycle with a car he was driving,“ an investigating officer said.
 
 Nivedha died of injuries to the head while policemen were taking her to a hospital. Ganapathi sustained minor injuries.
 
 Police initially believed that it was an accident, till Ilayaraja admitted to the crime under intense questioning.
 
 The officer said Nivedha had divorced her husband 20 years ago. They had a 24-yearold son, a chemical engineer, and a 23-year-old daughter, who works in Mahindra World City near Chengalpet on the outskirts of the city.
 
 “Nivedha had been in relationship with Ilayaraja, who is originally from Theni, for the past seven years,“ the officer said. “She decided to sever ties with him after he got married to another woman last year.“
 
 The schoolteacher, meanwhile, met and befriended Ganapathi on Facebook. Ganapathi, a married man with a two-year-old child, told Nivedha that he was a divorcee to keep their liaison intact.The pair met whenever Nivedha visited relatives in Chennai.
 
 “Ilayaraja grew suspicious after Nivedha distanced herself from him,“ the officer said.
 
 “He learned about her friendship with Ganapathi and insisted that they meet the engineer together to sort out the issue,“ he said.
 
 Nivedha agreed and arrived in Chennai with Ilayaraja in a hatchback car (TN20AP0085).
 
 “They met at the junction of New Avadi Road and Anna Nagar III Avenue and an argument soon broke out between the two men,“ the officer said. “Nivedha decided to end the fight and got on Ganapathi's bike. But Ilayaraja followed them and rammed the bike with his car.“
 
 Police arrested Ilayaraja and charged him with murder. A court has remanded him in prison.
 
