RAMPUR: In a letter written to the state Congress leadership, local party leaders, who alleged that they have regularly been targeted and their properties demolished at the behest of   during the   rule, have sought an affidavit from the local MLA and SP minister assuring no retribution if the SP is voted back to power in the state. Notably, Azam Khan and former Rampur royals, who have been Congress loyalists -- Begum Noor Bano is former Congress MP – have been entangled in a bitter political battle for decades.
 
  In a letter written to Congress General Secretary incharge of Uttar Pradesh Ghulam Nabi Azad, state party chief Raj Babar,   and other, Faisal Lala, vice-chairman of Congress’s state minority cell, sought an affidavit assuring safety of the local party workers, who he claimed “have been targeted at the behest of Khan” in the past. “Their properties have been demolished, many of them have been framed in false cases,” he alleged.
  
  The Congress leader also demanded that all criminal cases filed by SP workers against local Congress leaders during the 2014   poll campaign should be withdrawn before the proposed alliance is formalised. 
  
  UP Congress vice-president Muti Ur Rehman said, “The ground realties in Rampur are very different from the state or national political equations between the two parties. Azam Khan has had an anti-Congress mindset for a long time. Who will take guarantee of our safety in case of an alliance?”
  
  City Congress chief Mammon Shah Khan said, “The local cops here have a list of Congress workers. The moment we register a protest, they land at our door and some of us are in jail.”
  
  Lala claimed he himself had to cool his heels in jail for a good fortnight in 2014 after cases were registered from both SP and Congress workers during the 2014 LS poll campaign. “Though the investigation officer said the cases were due to political vendetta from both sides, the case against me was reopened and I was booked under section 307 (attempt to murder) and sent to jail,” he alleged.
  
  When contacted, Azam Khan’s media incharge Fasahat Ali Khan refused to comment on the issue. On Thursday evening, Khan had told reporters, “The SP is alone capable of forming the government in UP without any alliance.”
