NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party received a setback on Monday when its  , Ved Prakash, resigned from his seat and joined BJP.   is a former member of   and had joined AAP before the 2015  .

 Addressing a press conference, Ved Prakash attacked the AAP leadership, alleging that MLAs didn't have a say in the party and ministers didn't take their calls. “I felt suffocated. The ministers never take our calls. Manish Sisodia and Kapil Mishra never answer our calls. There is a chance of getting through to (Bill) Clinton on the phone but not them,“ he said.
 
 He alleged that chief minister   was unaware of what's happening in the party and was surrounded by people who believe in running the government “through laptops“. Ved Prakash claimed "all party workers are fed up...I have written to Kejriwal many times but he is surrounded by people who are misleading him....He doesn't know what's going on. Laptop se sarkar chal rahi hai.“
 
 AAP responded by attacking BJP for resorting to "todphod ki rajneeti". Sanjay Singh of the party said: “Fearing defeat in corporation polls, BJP is rattled and has started adopting the tactics it resorted to before the 2015 assembly polls. Through Sher Singh Dagar, BJP tried to bribe AAP MLAs. They tried to break away our then speaker. Vinod Kumar Binny, Ashok Chauhan and Rajesh Garg were taken away. The people, however, proved that if BJP tries to break and weaken AAP and Arvind Kerjiwal, then the public will come out more strongly in AAP's favour.“
 
 Ved Prakash, who had won the 2015 election by a margin of 50,000 votes, said he had resigned from Delhi assembly and nine committees, including the post of chairman of the district development committee (north). “I don't want a post. I want to work for the people and that is why I have resigned from all posts. No one will ever do this. There are 3035 MLAs who are unhappy as they don't have a say,“ he said.
 
 BJP sources said Ved Prakash has held several posts in the state unit. He was one of the contenders for the assembly ticket from Bawana during the 2013 assembly elections. He has been secretary of BJP's youth wing and coordinator for the Northwest parliamentary constituency in 2014. Vijender Gupta, leader of the opposition in Delhi assembly, said: “He has rejoined the party without any condition. The fact that he has resigned from all posts shows that people within AAP are unhappy."
 
 Welcoming him back into the party Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari said: “This says a lot about the state of affairs in the party. AAP is working only for its political expansion due to which development work has come to a standstill."
 
 He accused the AAP government of stalling developmental work in the city by engaging in a constant tussle with the Centre. “What work have they done? There is no check on corruption. Where are Wi-Fi and CCTVs? They are only looking for ways to fight with the Centre. If files were sent through a proper channel, how can they (LG and Centre) reject it," he asked.
 
 Ved Prakash alleged that the government was sitting on funds meant for the scheduled castes and that development work had got stalled. “I can't visit areas like Shahbad Dairy (one of the biggest areas in his constituency) as I have not been able to get much work done due to this government.People have to walk 3-4km to reach the cremation ground.Children have to go to other areas as the school in the area is in bad condition. Despite repeated requests, Sisodia didn't do anything," he said.
 
