The face of the   campaign in Punjab, former Punjab CM   is the man the Congress hopes will finally deliver a major North Indian state for the party. The author of several books on military history, the Raja of Patiala tells 
  that 2017 may be his last political battle.

 
 
 Not true, there are only 8-9 left now. The Congress is fighting unitedly. There was some trouble but that has been all been dealt with. There’s no internal sabotage, the Congress has never been more united. There are no factions. And we are going to do very well. We will sweep in Majha as well as in Doaba, even though the AAP may make some gains in Malwa. But even though the AAP had a sudden surge in the beginning, they are declining now. AAP peaked in 2014, its over for them now.
 
 
 
 I had made it clear to the Congress president and vice president that I did not think we could defeat the Badals under the leadership that existed at that time. That was changed, so there’s no question anymore of my being unhappy.
 
 
 
 Those posters have been put up either by AAP or BJP. They only want to create trouble where none exists.
 
 What’s your relationship with Sidhu? Are you rivals?
 
 I’ve known Sidhu since he was a little boy. His father was my mother’s secretary in the Congress when she went to Parliament. He’s a nice boy and a good cricketer and has joined the Congress unconditionally. We have very good relations.
 
 
 
 Is that why I am going to Lambi to fight the Badals there? I am taking the fight to their doorstep.
 
 
 
 Look I was an MP, not an MLA. MPs are not supposed to be available all the time as MLAs are as they have to represent their seat in Parliament. I still spent 2-3 days every week in Amritsar and have spent 99 per cent of my MPLAD fund on development work there.
 
 
 
 Not at all, they’re doing a great job. I get regular de-briefings. I learn how they are working. Times have changed. Earlier people used to get a single newspaper, now everyone has TV sets.
 
 
 
 That’s for the party high command to decide, but you can clearly see my face on all the posters. I think that says it all.
 
 
 
 I love it. He keeps saying snide things about me, so I say snide things right back. I enjoy baiting him. But I’ve never met him.
 
 
 
 Yes I am. It's on the Tirah Campaign of 1897-98, the Battle of Saragarhi. 21 Sikhs died defending us from Afghans and Pathans. I write every night, and yes, also do my own research.
 
 
 
 Look if I win this election I will be almost 80 by the time the next election comes. We’re a young country. Surely you don’t expect an 80-year- old to contest an election. So yes, this is my last political battle.
 
