Celebrated lyricist Gulzar, on a visit to Goa in December 2009, said of Goan poet Manoharrai Sardessai’s literary work, “It is the saltiness of the winds that blow in Goa that give his poems flavor and the swaying palms that give his words the rhythm.”

 Gulzar, in one line, described the same vivid imagery from Goa that dominated Sardessai’s poems, while also demonstrating how this Goan’s words stirred a strong longing for one’s home, irrespective of the reader’s origins.
 
 Sardessai was born on January 18 1925, a date that happens to fall just two days after Goa celebrates ‘Goem Asmitai Dis’. It is on January 16, 1967, that Goa voted against its merger with Maharashtra, a verdict in which Sardessai’s poems played a critical role.
 
 What Shenoi Goembab did to establish Konkani's independent identity in the 1800s, Sardessai can be said to have done for the language in the following century, having left behind the painstaking work, ‘A History of Konkani Literature’, which among other things, demolishes the argument of Konkani sharing vast similarities with Marathi. Like Goembab, Sardessai, born Manohar Sardessai to noted Konkani short story writer Laxmanrao Sardessai, turned to the pen name ManohaRai SarDessai.
 
 “Shenoi Goembab, Kasinath Sridhar Nayak, Laxmanrao Sardessai in their writings display a certain nostalgia for the homeland. This nostalgia reaches perhaps its terminating point in Manoharrai Sardessai’s collection of peoms ‘Goem tujya moga khatir’ (For thy sake O Goa, 1961).   gave a new direction to Konkani poetry. 
 
 While describing Goa in colourful and emotionally charged words, he emphasized its slavery with great poignancy,” K M George writes in his book, Modern Indian Literature and Anthology.
 
 Sardessai's longing for Goa stemmed from his long exile from his home for academic reasons. After completing his schooling in Marathi and Portuguese, Sardessai shifted base to Bombay (now Mumbai) to study at Wilson College. Despite the hardships he faced due to his father’s involvement in Goa’s liberation movement, Sardessai cleared his graduate and masters degrees with top honours.
 
 After working as a lecturer for a brief period at Wilson College itself, Sardessai got the opportunity to carry on his research in France.   was one of the poets, whose works he studied in depth, and, like Neruda, love is a recurring theme in Sardessai’s poems as well, though his works show mastery over all subjects from politics to nature.
 
 On being awarded his doctorate degree from  , when Sardessai was working as a lecturer at   in Mumbai in the early 1960s that he published his first Konkani book, ‘Aiz re dholar padli baddi’. Over the years, he would weave magic in Konkani, Marathi, English, Portuguese and French. Besides these, he was well-versed in Sanskrit and Hindi as well.
 
 Once he returned to Goa, from chairing the 8th Konkani   held in Margao, to helping set up the Portuguese and French departments at  , to serving as vice-president of Goa Konkani Akademi and editing the first and only Konkani Encyclopedia at Goa University, Sardessai appeared to have more than paid his due to Konkani. “His poems spoke of a Goa for Goans, of asmitai or the Konkani identity. The anti-merger campaign during the Opinion Poll was a struggle to safeguard this identity. But Sardessai had already long spoken about it in his poems. That is why, probably, his poems resonated so well with Goans across during the poll campaign,” said Konkani researcher Tanaji Halarnkar, who had worked as the executive editor of the Konkani encyclopedia under Sardessai. 
 
 Sardessai, who passed away in 2006, now himself appears in the 4th volume of the encyclopedia.
 
 Halarnkar also recalls Sardessai’s humility when working with his subordinates. 
 
 The poet’s sense of humour is also well-known. He is once supposed to have responded to a query on the premature greying of his hair, retorting that ‘that a house is covered in snow, does not mean there is no fire in the furnace.’
 
 Sardessai’s daughter Maya is also a poet, while his son Sunil is an architect. Though Sardessai’s academic pursuits kept him away from any direct involvement in Goa’s liberation movement, he remained a nationalist to the core.
 
 Like a description of his work by the Sahitya Akademi states, “Sardessai bitterly criticized the economic inequity, illiteracy, corruption, shortcomings of democracy in his writings, post Goa’s Liberation”.
 
 Sardessai introduced to Konkani the 'tikli' format of two line poems, something similar to the 'sher' format popular in Urdu. 
 
 No mention of Sardessai is complete without mentioning his poetry for children, the best known being ‘Bebeachem Kazaar’. 
 
 Not for nothing is he known as Kaviraj, the crown prince of Konkani poetry, by the people themselves.
 
 
