PATNA: Around 4,000 police personnel have been deployed for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s 2 hours visit to Patna attend   on Thursday.

 All efforts have been made to ensure foolproof security to PM during his visit, amid intelligence input that Khalistani and Indian Mujahideen (IM) terrorists might attempt to disrupt the massive religious function for which pilgrims from across the globe have reached Patna. Special teams have been deployed around railway stations and bus stands to keep an eye on the suspects.
 
 PM’s special plane would land at Patna airport at 11.55am. Within five minutes of his arrival, he would leave for Gandhi Maidan to attend the 350th birth anniversary celebrations of Guru Gobind Singh.
 
 PM would stay at Gandhi Maidan for two hours after which he would leave for Patna airport at 2.15pm to return to Delhi. Traffic for common people would be closed on Bailey Road for around 15 minutes during the PM’s movement.
 
 The Special Protection Group (SPG) officials on Wednesday conducted a mock drill for the PM’s convoy security.
 
 IG ( ) Nayyer Hasnain Khan said the scheduled real time mock drill for PM convoy was cancelled on Tuesday as the SPG officials wanted some security changes inside the Darbar Hall made at Gandhi Maidan.
 
 “We decided to conduct the drill only after fulfilling the SPG guidelines,” he said, adding that elaborate security arrangements have been made for the PM this time as he would follow a long route to reach the venue. He also said the drill was conducted with PM’s armoured   car which has already reached Patna.
 
 He said two IPS officers are monitoring the security-related arrangements for the PM’s visit.
 
 “We had several rounds of meetings with central intelligence officials for Prakashotsava and PM visit. The VIP lounge inside Gandhi Maidan was taken over by the police four days back as the PM would take short rest inside the lounge during his visit,” Khan added.
 
 Sources also said the SPG team, along with 13 others, also visited   and Hospital (PMCH) and   (IGIMS) on Wednesday evening and inspected the operation theatre and other emergency and life-support medical equipment which would remain on standby until PM remains in Patna.
 
 
