KOLKATA: A new Ramayana script played out on the streets of  , a former Marxist citadel, on Wednesday with political rivals BJP and Trinamool pitching Lord Ram against his faithful follower Hanuman.

 On a day the state’s BJP leaders and other saffron organisations hit the road to celebrate  , hitherto not a big festival in Bengal,   celebrated Hanuman Jayanti to muddy the saffron camp’s efforts at religious polarisation.
 
 While RSS-backed Ram bhakts, led by a sword-flaunting BJP president Dilip Ghosh, tried to inflame passion with their “Jai Shri Ram” battlecry in Kharagpur, Trinamool men in Birbhum organised public worship of Hanuman at several places. What took a hit in the din was Bengal’s age-old Annapurna Puja that coincides with Ram Navami. 
 
 The militant mood took precedence over spirituality at Barasat’s Moyna in North 24-Parganas where Ram bhakts brandished traditional weapons — tridents, swords, khukris and choppers — in front of police. The armed rally began right in front of the SP’s office and took NH34 via Champadali More before ending at Sethpukur. “The participants were carrying traditional Hindu weapons. What’s wrong in that when weapons are allowed during Muharram?” argued BJP North 24-Parganas president Sankar Chatterjee. 
 
 SP Bhaskar Mukherjee had little to say on the police inaction. “Police didn’t give permission to this rally. It’s a fact that we didn’t stop the rallyists. We will discuss this and take appropriate action later,” he said. 
 
 In Kharagpur, the state BJP president made no bones about his intentions. “We have come here to unite people and remind them about the su-rajya,” Dilip Ghosh said. Taking the cue, his supporters chanted: “Agar Bharat mein rehna hai to Jai Shri Ram kehna hai.”
 
 Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who received feedback from across the state, hit out at BJP’s divisive politics. “In UP, their leaders are talking of sab ke sath, sabka bikash, but in Bengal they want division between Hindus and Muslims. We not only worship goddess Durga and Kali, but people here worship other forms of Durga — Annapurna, Basanti — like others observe Ram Navami during this time of Chaitra. BJP is now trying to usurp Bengal’s tradition and showcase Ram Navami as its own. Who has given BJP the right to use the Hindu religious motif — Om — on its flags?” she said in Bankura.
 
 Yet, the Ram Navami processions caught attention like never before. In Kolkata there was a huge procession at Bhukailash Road in Kidderpore and another from Cossipore to Ram Mandir in north Kolkata. Ram bhakts even came out in   where Hindus are a minority. 
 
 There was a stand-off between BJP rallyists and Trinamool supporters in Siliguri in the morning while Kharagpur belonged to the Ram bhakts for the day. Members of Bajrangi Akhara, the oldest in Kharagpur town, were brimming with excitement hours before the Ram Navami rally. “Wielding arms during Ram Navami rally is part of our decades-old culture here,” said  , a member of the akhara. A total 14 akharas participated in the Kharagpur rally. Peppy remakes of Bollywood chartbusters filled the air along with “Jai Shri Ram” chants. Temples at street corners were decorated with marigold and large vinyl posters depicting Ram and Hanuman were put up along the streets. Youths sporting saffron bandana manned the ‘puja sthal’. 
 
 (With inputs from Rohit Khanna, Sanjib Chakrabarty, Pinak Priya Bhattacharya)
 
 
