
  For five full days, Calcutta lives in a world of its own, known as the   festival. Called a carnival these days, it is befitting of the mood we fervently proclaim to experience when   comes home. Willy-nilly drawn into the situation whether you want to be part of it or not, unless you hermetically seal yourself up, there is almost no way you can avoid the celebrations in every corner of the city. The intensified environment noise pulls you in at a subliminal level even if you never move out of your home.
 
  Yet, for the Bengali, it is a community event. A time for people to gather, collaborate and contribute. From the zamindari puja of the 16th century, to the late 18th century baroari Puja of 12 friends in Guptipara, Hooghly, to the community, sarbojanin Puja in   in 1910, the present-day Calcutta Durga Puja mega event may retain the spirit of its origins, but has likely lost the plot along the way. An indication of this can be seen in the grand popularisation of the bonedi Pujas of old-time Calcutta families. In any case, the Calcutta person has never really considered the Durga Puja celebrations as a great show of piety and abstinence. While the worship is sincere and often over-the-top, no one doubts that everything is done to satiate the senses, and then some.
 
  Take the response of Calcuttans to the advertisement released by a reputed hair and beauty salon with a Muslim name. Created in the comic book style familiar to Bengalis from similar art in Puja Special magazines over the years, the advertisement showed Durga and her children getting hairstyled at that salon. The Calcuttawala seeing this, would have smiled a little crookedly, probably pointed it out with a laugh to the family, and got on with reading the rest of the newspaper without further ado. Suddenly, a wild wave of devout outrage blew in from parts of north India and quite gave the Bengali cause to resort to extra doses of antacid. The Calcuttan sputtered and fumed at this unwarranted annexation of Bengali culture by the non-Bengali. While the Muslim hairstylist may not have gained much by way of business, he must have been astonished to find himself being staunchly defended by the very people he had supposedly offended. Publishing an apology advertisement the next day was more offensive to Bengalis than the original advertisement. To cut a long story short, let’s just say that the Bengalis won the day and took back their culture, permitting those who wanted to poke a little fun, very much an integral aspect of the celebrations, to not desist.
 
  Most evidently a story to warm the cockles of their hearts and allow a tear or three to roll down the cheeks of true Calcuttans. So yes, all of us celebrating this carnival, this great festival of a version of Hinduism as conceived by the Bengali, are surely inspired in these divisive times. And then, as it does so well and so hard in this city, some awful truths glared at people that could not be ignored.
 
  A seminar at a prominent bookstore on September 16 took some noble time out to take a look at those who do not really get the chance to celebrate this mother of all festivals. The owner of a famous restaurant, a senior police officer, officers of the fire brigade, and a private FM radio jockey considered their situations in a matter-of-fact way. The service industry and the public welfare servers found their unique ways of being part of the Durga Puja festival as unavoidable and a duty. The RJ, including another in the audience, tried to make a case of being duty-bound too but failed rather lamentably by claiming a journalistic importance. 
 
  Employee drivers, public transport personnel, parking attendants, medical caregivers, and millions of lesser service personnel who too work gruelling extra hours to forego festivities, should also be part of this ‘Onno Rokomer Puja’. What sort of Durga Puja happens for the workers in real estate construction sites, at road and bridge building sites, Metro Railway works, and such like? Do we feel bad because the Durga Puja festival has become an event for the celebration of consuming? And that some are less fortunate in this cycle of desire and its material fulfilment via credit cards and annual bonus? That this celebration of an ethnic culture, of art, of worship, has transformed into an exaggerated brand marketing opportunity? There are no convincing answers forthcoming.
 
 Two of the greatest blues musicians on the planet, Taj Mahal and Keb’ Mo’, released a joint album this year, TajMo. The last track on the album, Waiting on the world to change, is a   cover. Here’s a clip of the lyrics: It’s not that we don’t care/ We just know the fight ain’t fair/ So we keep on waiting/ Waiting on the world to change.
 
  
 PATRICK GHOSE
 
 
