JAIPUR: Rajasthan High Court on Friday granted bail to   accused   on the ground of his long-period of custody and also taking in to account the fact that the trial proceedings in the court are held up in the absence of necessary prosecution sanction.

 The single bench of   granted bail on a personal bond of Rs 1 lakh and two surety bonds of Rs 50,000 each on the condition that he would appear before the trial court on all dates of hearing and as and when called upon to do so.
 
 Pawan's counsel Tanveer Ahmed moved the bail plea on the ground that the petitioner is in custody since May 31 last year and the proceedings in the trial court are being held up due to the delay in granting the prosecution sanction by the competent authorityD. He argued that the petitioner could no be held in custody for an indefinite period.
 
 He said the chargesheet in the case has been filed in July last year but necessary steps were not taken by the ACB to obtain prosecution sanction within a reasonable time. He argued that the accused cannot be kept in custody due to the inaction of the investiga ting agency . Opposing the bail plea Additional Advocate General Anurag Sharma argued that the first bail plea of the accused has been dismissed by the Hight court on Nov 11 last year taking into consideration the gravity of the offence. He said there is no substantial change in the facts and circumstances of the case to grant him bail on the ground of longevity period of custody .
 
 He said the state government on its part had granted prosecution sanction on Nov 8 last year and the accused being a IAS officer prosecution sanction is granted by the Union Government. The proposal for prosecution sanction by the state government to thecentre was sent on Dec 14. But state had received a letter dated on January 3 by the Centre requesting the state to re-summit its proposal as per new procedure resulting in the delay . The then director, IAS officer Neeraj K Pawan, RAS officer Anil Kumar Agarwal, Accountant Deepa Gupta, store keeper Joji Varghese and middleman Ajit Kumar Soni, were accused of working as a coccus in awarding contracts in the   (NRHM) through middleman Ajit Soni.
 
 The ACB had arrested the five accused after a search in the offices and residences which resulted in unearthing many incriminating evidences. According to the chargesheet the total commission routed through the middleman Ajit Kumar Soni from vendors to the five accused is to the tune of Rs 2.2 crore out of seven crore awarded to various vendors.
 
 According to ACB Neeraj K Pawan got Rs 76, 86, 172, Deepa Rs 5, 85, 616 and Anil Agarwal received Rs 4, 61, 009 as their share in the scam as per initial investgation.
 
