GHAZIABAD: The Ghaziabad Development Authority ( ) has issued an order prohibiting schools across the city from conducting nursery and primary classes at floors that are above 10.5 meters in height. The direction is one amongst the many comprehensive guidelines that were issued on Wednesday to ensure the safety of school-going children.

 Building by-laws formulated for the city by GDA already contain these provisions. However, the guidelines were issued following complaints from residents that certain schools were conducting classes for the junior wing within basements and on floors as high as level four and five.
 
 According to GDA officials, the guidelines will be applicable for all schools in the district including those that are government-owned, government-aided and privately owned. “Nursery and primary classes can only be conducted on the ground, first and second floors. This is to ensure the safety of young kids. Schools have been asked to strictly implement the guidelines. Our officials will conduct check upon schools to ensure compliance and regular reminders will be sent,” GDA’s chief architect and town planner, Ishtiyaq Ahmed, told TOI.
 
 The town planning department of GDA has issued a 22-page booklet of guidelines upon all its zonal offices. Officials said the guidelines have been formulated on the basis of a Supreme Court order upon a PIL that had been filed to demand safety norms for school-going children following the Kumbakonam School Tragedy of Tamil Nadu in 2004 in which 94 primary level students had been charred to death. The apex court had issued detailed guidelines in the order delivered upon the PIL in the year 2009. Officials said the state government had subsequently issued an order upon GDA to ensure that the apex court guidelines were suitably incorporated into the building by-laws.
 
 The GDA has issued letters directing for strict compliance with the safety guidelines following a complaint by the Federation of Apartment Owners’ Association (FedAOA) of Ghaziabad.
 
 “The GDA has not been conducting the regular safety audit of schools in the city. Consequently, several schools have been cramping students into tight spaces in classrooms. Even fire safety norms are not followed properly in certain schools. It is the duty of the state government to ensure that lives of school-going students are protected and secured through minimum safety standards,” FedAOA founder, Alok Kumar, told TOI.
 
 
