PATNA: Chief minister   on Friday said the popular mandate that the three-party grand alliance got in the 2015 assembly elections was not to “amass wealth by one family, but to serve people of the state”.

 Reply to the   debate on the trust vote after re-entering the BJP-led NDA and forming his new government, replacing the one of with   and  , Nitish attacked RJD chief Lalu Prasad and his family and said, “The mandate that people gave to the grand alliance was to serve people. It was not to amass wealth by one family.” 
 
 “Yeh jo raj yog hai wo sewa ke liye tha, mewa ke liye nahin tha, kuchh logon ke bhog ke liye nahin tha (the mandate was to serve the people and certainly not to wallow in wealth and enjoy),” said Nitish, who resigned on Wednesday as the CM of grand alliance government over the   charges against Lalu’s son and his then deputy   Prasad Yadav. 
 
 The “one family” that he invoked implied Lalu, his wife and former CM Rabri Devi and their sons Tejashwi and Tej Pratap Yadav. While Tejashwi was the deputy CM, Tej Pratap was minister of forest and health. Incidentally, Lalu’s daughter and RJD Rajya Sabha member Misa Bharti has also come under the Enforcement Directorate (ED) net for allegedly acquiring benami properties worth several crores. 
 
 Earlier, leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav made an all-out verbal assault on him, touching various issues like Nitish’s past association with the BJP, PM  , dismantling of the first NDA government four years ago and the way he had made Jitan Ram Manjhi the CM and later unceremoniously unseated him. 
 
 “He (Tejashwi) has touched not one, but various issues. I will reply to all of them, on the floor of the House as well as outside it,” Nitish said. 
 
 Earlier, former assembly Speaker and present Congress legislature party leader in the house, Sadanand Singh, said he had “never imagined” that Nitish would rejoin hands with the BJP at any point of time. “But he took a U-turn,” he said.
 
 “What abuses the BJP leaders and PM Narendra Modi had hurled at you? Despite all this, your return to the BJP fold has happened in a pre-planned way,” Singh said. 
 
 In a counter-attack on Congress, Nitish said that it was due to him that they had got so many (40) seats to contest the last assembly election. “They (RJD people) live in ‘ahankaar’ (bloated ego) and ‘dambh’ (false pride),” Nitish said. 
 
