BHOPAL: Winter sunshine,   and   in the  . The Sunday morning was just right for the   enthusiasts of the state. Around 50 golfers from Indore and Bhopal had gathered at the BHEL Golf Club. 

 With their eyes on the BHEL Open Golf tournament trophy the players tested the field and took their best shot.
 
 With every hit the eyes of the spectators scanned the 45 acres of the golf course and the beauty surrounding it. 
 
 Established in the heart of BHEL township, the club was started in 1998 with an aim to promote the game in and around the city. 
 
 Little did they know back then that golf will draw so much crowd from the City of Lakes. Recalling the days before the facility was running one Dilip Mehra, of the senior most members of the BHEL Golf Club and retired IAS officer said, “Earlier it was decided that an 18-hole golf course will be prepared here. But, eventually a 9-hole course came to existence. There is a lot of land available for the course to be developed into 18-holes, with the necessary services.”
 
  The lone woman golfer and Mehra’s wife, Satjit participated in the tournament on Sunday and played in the open category. A golfer by profession, Satjit has won many accolades in the field with one of them being the Goverenor’s Cup that she bagged in Naintal two years ago.
 
  The thrilling tournament ended with the win of Amandeep Bath of Indian Oil with a score of 3 over par 75. In the handicap stroke-play format, V K Ariel was the winner and in the veterans category, R B Sahi from Indore won. Golf putting competition for women was won by Nalini Kapoor. Without missing any action of the tournament, secretary of the golf club, J P Masand said that the maintenace and development of the course is done by the in-house resources of BHEL. 
 
 “The 9-hole mesh with the scenic beauty surrounded with hundreds of trees provides a very comfortable and relaxing environment which adds to the thrill of the game. This is the only civilian golf course in MP,”added Masand.
 
 The club now has about 140 enrolled members which include senior officers of the state and central government, PSUs, BHEL serving and retired officers, opinion makers and other elite business class of Bhopal.The managing committee of the club which constitutes of senior BHEL officers, is nominated by the executive director of BHEL Bhopal who is also the patron of the club. 
 
 Since the inception of the club, several tournaments have been organized annually, in which golfers from various cities have participated. The Club also organises coaching camps regularly. Indian open champion and Arjuna award winner Ali Sher has visited the course to give tips to the city’s golf aficionados. “Camps are also conducted for school and college kids and other golf enthusiasts by the senior golf ers of the club in order to inculcate interest in the game,” said secretary.
 
 
