MANGALURU: Hindu organisations have decided to hold a protest rally in the city on February 24 opposing Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s proposed visit to Mangaluru on February 25. This is despite giving a call for voluntary hartal on February 25. 

  is scheduled to talk on communal harmony at a public rally organized by the Mangaluru unit of CPM at Nehru Maidan on February 25. 
 
 Zonal working presidet of Vishwa Hindu Parishad M P Puranik told TOI that the workers of Sangh Parivar will hold a protest rally from Jyoti Circle to DC office on Friday opposing Kerala CM’s speech at the CPM rally.
 
 Zonal convener of Bajrang Dal Sharan Pumpwell said that the Sangh Pariwar had nto given a call for bandh on February 25 but has asked people stage a hartal voluntarily. 
 
  “It is an irony that Kerala CM, who heads a party that is engaged in killings and violence, is scheduled to a deliver talk on communal harmony. We have requested people of the district to participate voluntarily in the hartal opposing killings and violence by left parties in Kerala. We have requested all educational institutions, bus owners, auto rickshaw owners, drivers, hotel owners, workers, students and office-goers to participate in the hartal,” Sharan said.
 
 Sri Ram Sene regional president Anand Shetty Adyar said his organization will join hands with other Hindu organizations to oppose Kerala CM’s visit to Mangaluru. “We have no objection in Left party holding a communal harmony rally in the city. However, Vijayan should not be allowed to take part and deliver a speech,” he added.
 
 Meanwhile, DYFI state president   said that CPI(M) leaders have met chief minister Siddaramaiah and sought protection for the rally. “We will hold the rally with Kerala CM as the main speaker as per schedule and there is no question of changing the decision,” Katipalla said adding it is the duty of the government and the police to ensure security.
 
 To counter BJP’s allegation of killings by CPM, Muneer released a list of over 200 CPI(M) and DYFI leaders, who were allegedly killed by RSS in Kerala. 
 
 
