Despite being the most widely known mathematical constant, to its fans around the world,   remains the most mesmerising, mysterious, magical number that ever existed. So much so that Pi has two celebratory days a year -   on March 14 to represent its decimal value of 3.14, and   on July 22 to represent its fractional value of 227.

 Like the number itself, for mathematicians across the world, the zeal for Pi has always been just as irrational and infinite. S K Sennaiyan, a farmer from Pollachi for years has been trailing the mystery of the mathematical constant, trying to understand how the number came to be. On Tuesday , March 14, Sennaiyan will be presenting his theory and findings at the Pie Mathematicians Association headquarters in Trustpuram, Chennai. “I have been fascinated by Pi since I was in troduced to the concept in Class VII,“ says the 68-year-old who has been invited by various educational institutions to present his theory. Sennaiyan says he spent his time off the farm translating the concept of Pi into geometric designs to figure out how the number works, and finally came up with a design of squares and circles that shows that Pi -denoting the ratio of the circumference of a circle to its diameter -always remains a constant at 227.
 
 Sennaiyan adds that Pi led him to other discoveries, for instance, a parasite killing worms which affect coconut trees, a finding that he pre sented at  , Kasar god, Kerala.
 
 “He presented his findings to me a couple of years ago,“ says R Sivaraman, a math professor and founder of Pie Mathematics Associa tion. “I was fascinated and called him in to give the lecture on Pi Day ,“ adds Sivaraman, who writes books on the lives of mathematicians and has been organising Pi Day cele brations for a few years now.
 
 In another part of Chennai, a group of engineers is cele brating Pi Day with a work shop on Raspberry Pi, a series of small single-board comput ers developed in the UK to pro mote the teaching of computer science in schools and in devel oping countries. “Pi is related to core engineering. The Rasp berry Pi organisation encour ages communities to celebrate Pi day with Raspberry Pi,“ says software engineer Muru gadoss Subramaniam, the main organiser of the event at Thoughtworks.
 
