LONDON:  , the free-swinging, bit-hitting 20-year-old, gave   a glimpse of what's to come. Bruising artillery and fearless attitude.  , 37, who has seen off many a brutal challenge in her 20 visits to Church Road took ownership of the patch of grass she could well call her front lawn.

 The American, five-time champion, playing her 100th match at  , beat the French Open champion 6-3, 7-5 in 73 minutes on a rain-hit day in this leafy London suburb. Venus, wonderfully poised and strikingly precise, used her hitman serve to stunning effect, picking up her 86th win here.
 
 Meanwhile  , the 14th seeded Spaniard, knocked out battling veteran Svetlana Kuznetsova of Russia 6-4, 6-4 in another quarterfinal clash.
 
 In the last of the men's fourth round matches, Novak Djokovic, who was unhappy that his match was pushed back from Monday when there was a possibility it could've gone through on Centre Court, beat Frenchman Adrian Mannarino 6-2, 7-6 (7-5), 6-4.
 
 The Serb, who struggled with the court, and even took a medical timeout during his fourth-round clash, will play the 11th seeded Czech Tomas Berdych in the last eight.
 
 Djokovic said of the condition of the court, “Under the roof it was a bit more slippery in the back of the court especially. I don't think it is a hindrance to the play. There is an uneven surface, no grass area basically around the baseline. It's quite uneven. The ball bounces there, it's a gamble to really get that ball. It's more a play issue.”
 
 The other men's last-eight clashes will see defending champion Andy Murray play big serving American Sam Querrey; seventh seed Marin Cilic will play Gilles Muller and 18-time major winner Roger Federer goes up against last year's finalist Canada's Milos Raonic.
 
 Venus gives little away on the court save for when it's all done and she throws up her hand waves to the crowd. She then breaks into a smile as she pirouettes. The veteran, a crowd favourite, started strongly against Ostapenko, who had trouble stringing it together on her first time on Centre Court. The Lativian was broken in the second game of the match when she erred on her backhand. Venus, looking every inch a royalty of the game, closed out the set in 29-minutes.
 
 “I love this game. That's why I put in the effort and the time. It's a beautiful game. It's been so good to me,” Venus, who has improved with every outing here, said.
 
 “I love the challenge. I love pressure. It's not always easy dealing with the pressure. There's constant pressure. It's only yourself who can have the answer for that.”
 
 Junior Zeal in third round
 
 India's Zeal Desai, seeded 15th, moved into the third round of the junior girls event when her opponent Russian Marta Paigina retired. The Russian won the first set 7-5 and was trailing 0-1 in the second when she retired after 39-minutes of play.
 
 The other Indian in the junior girls event Mahak Jain fell to the third-seeded American Claire Liu 1-6, 2-6 in 45 minutes.
 
 
