PUNE: Of the 91,670   in First Year Junior Colleges in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, only 35,194 admissions have been confirmed through the online Common Admission Process till Tuesday. Two more rounds are expected before the final picture is clear.

 Last year, the admission rounds were extended toaccommodate all the students who had applied. 
 
 Even after 10,000 seats were confirmed under various quotas (in-house, management etc), the vacancy after Round II in the colleges still remains about 50%.
 
 Experts said that instead of all the students aiming for a few well-known colleges, students need to recheck their preferences and compare their marks with the cut-off percentages of their desired colleges and then take a realistic view about which colleges to choose.
 
 “The students should make sure they are not adamant about getting admission to a particular college or a school. Many-a- times, their friends get through a college and they too want to be allotted the same one but their marks are less which doesn’t allow them that convenience. So students should make sure there is a vacancy in the college and also check the cut-off in the last round before filling the preference form for the next round,” an official from the CAP committee said.
 
 In Pune, Round 1 saw a total of 78,438 applications of which 24,663 students confirmed their admission. In Round II, the number was 10,531 confirmed admissions. 
 
 The number of students who did not report for the next step is also high. 
 
 At least 23,188 students did not report for admission in Round 1, while 13,847 did not report after Round II in Pune. 
 
 There were 19,806 students in Round 1 and 30,734 students in Round II who did not get any allotments.
 
 While there are colleges with less than the required number of admissions after Round II, Dinkar Temkar, head of the CAP committee and the deputy director of education believes that they will be filled up in consecutive rounds. 
 
 “The minimum number of admissions that a granted division should have is around 30. There is no such limit for non-granted divisions, however the upper limit is 80, if the junior college is attached to a high school and 120 if the junior college is attached to a senior college. Whether we will distribute the students in divisions with less admissions into other colleges, or within other divisions in the colleges is a decision we will take case by case,” Temkar said.
 
