PATNA: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar did not only politically outfox RJD chief   with his sudden resignation and re- alliance with the BJP, but also put his bade bhai (Lalu) and most of his family members in much harsher condition owing to corruption charges. Already a “hot target” of central agencies like the CBI, Income Tax department and Enforcement Directorate, the Lalu clan would in all likelihood come under the scanner of state government agencies like Economic Offence Unit (EoU) of the Bihar Police with BJP becoming a part of Nitish government.

 Many of the allegations levelled by Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo), who is now in the government, on the Lalu family include land and buildings in Bihar given to them under quid pro quo for election tickets, ministerial berths and jobs in the railways.
 
 As per allegations recently made by Modi and earlier by JD (U) in 2008, most of the land deals related to Lalu family were struck between 2004 and 2009 during UPA I.
 
 JD (U)’s Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh had alleged in 2008 that RJD MPs gifted land to Lalu and family to get berths in the Union cabinet. Those who received land from job seekers include Lalu’s wife and former Bihar CM Rabri Devi, sons Tej Pratap Yadav and Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, daughter Misa Bharti and brother-in-law Prabhunath Yadav.
 
 For instance, it has been alleged that former Union minister Kanti Singh and her family gave around 30 katthas of land in Patna to Rabri in 2006. Similarly, another former Union minister Raghunath Jha allegedly transferred a six-kattha plot in Gopalganj as “gifts” to Lalu’s two sons Tej Pratap and Tejashwi in 2005.
 
 Also, one Lalan Choudhary, who worked in Lalu’s cowshed for 20 years, allegedly gifted 1088 square feet of land at Danapur to Rabri in January 2014. Hridyanand Choudhary, who was appointed as khalasi (gangman or helper) in the Coaching Complex Store at Rajendra Nagar in 2005 allegedly gifted 3267 square feet (7.75 decimal) of land at Patna to Lalu’s fifth daughter Hema Yadav in 2014.
 
 SuMo has time and again appealed to Nitish to take action in such cases as they fall under the domain of the state government.
 
 State agencies apart, central agencies have already tightened the noose on Lalu family. Tejashwi, Rabi and Lalu are already booked in the FIR lodged by the CBI on July 5 in the land-for-railways hotel case during Lalu’s regime as railways minister. Enforcement Directorate conducted raids at three places in New Delhi associated with Misa Bharti and her husband Shailesh Kumar against alleged money laundering and benami transactions though their shell firm Mishail Packers and Printers Private Limited.
 
 On June 20, Income Tax department “provisionally attached” over a dozen properties in Patna and Delhi associated with Lalu and kin including Rabri, Misa, Shailesh, Tejashwi and daughters Ragini Yadav and Chanda Yadav.
 
 Lalu himself is making personal appearances in special CBI courts in the multi-crore fodder scam cases in Jharkhand following revival of fodder scam cases. RJD insiders are thus of the view that it would be tough time for Lalu clan even though hopes are high with the leadership of Tejashwi.
 
 “Lalu family has been cornered from all sides. With Lalu ji himself having to appear in CBI courts, his attention does get diverted from time to time. However, we definitely see spark in Tejashwi ji. He seemed to have attained a good degree of political skills as the deputy CM over the past 20 months. Besides, we still have the support of Congress. Hence, RJD will continue its fight against RSS-BJP, a glimpse of which would be seen in the BJP Hatao, Desh Bachao rally on August 27,” RJD spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan told TOI. 
 
 
