Beta cells are unique cells in the pancreas which are responsible for producing, storing and releasing the hormone  . Located in the area of the pancreas known as the islets of Langerhans (the organ's endocrine structures), they are one of at least five different types of islet cells that produce and secrete hormones directly into the bloodstream.

 The main function of beta cells is producing, secreting and regulating the release of insulin the hormone responsible for regulating levels of glucose in the blood. When blood glucose levels start to rise (e.g. during digestion), beta cells quickly respond by secreting some of their stored insulin while at the same time increasing production of the hormone. This quick response to a spike in blood glucose usually takes about ten minutes. But the function of beta cell is not normal in   where these cells are either attacked or destroyed by the   and type 2   where they are unable to produce a sufficient amount of insulin needed for blood sugar control.
 
 The reason for the death of beta cells in type 1 diabetes is a misguided attack by the body's immune system. How and why that happens is not clear, but the results of a study published in early 2011 suggest that these pancreatic cells become stressed at the earliest stages of the disease process.
 
 The exposure of high level of glucose and fat to beta cells make them inefficient for producing insulin. This is the possible reason of development and progression type 2 diabetes.
 
 It is a topic of debate from a long time that beta cell function can be improved in type 2 diabetes. Research found that beta cells subjected to high glucose levels (about 288 mg/dl in a test tube) lost function rapidly. But when switched to a low-glucose environment (about 15 mg/dl), most of them recovered normal insulin production.
 
 Can improved diet, stress reduction, and/or exercise heal beta cells? Yes, eating low carb food, exercise and stress reduction can improve the functioning of beta cell by decreasing the blood glucose level.
 
 
 
 
 
