After a long time, there was finally a government announcement that made people happy – paying service charge at a restaurant will now be voluntary and customers can choose not to pay it if they are not satisfied with their  . If the list of charges on your dinner bill often left a bad taste in your mouth, the government has now clarified that the service charge cannot be mandatorily applied by restaurants. The Centre has also asked states to ensure that hotels and restaurants display this information on their premises. “A number of complaints from consumers have been received that hotels and restaurants are following the practice of charging ‘service charge’ in the range of 5-20%, in lieu of tips, which a consumer is forced to pay irrespective of the kind of service provided to him,” the Union Consumer Affairs Ministry said in a statement.

 While diners are delighted and waiters hopeful that this might bring their tips back, many restaurants, as well as the National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI), still maintain that they will not make the service charge optional, and will give the option to the customer of not eating at their venue.
 
 
 
 Riyaaz Amlani,  , stressed that what has come from the ministry is a "press advisory and not an order." He says, "There are judicial pronouncements to support that the service charge can be charged by hotels and restaurants. It is for restaurants to decide as a policy if they want to charge service charge or not. The information about the service charge should be clearly mentioned on the menu and displayed in the restaurant, and then customers can decide if they want to dine in and pay it. If they don’t want to pay the service charge, they can go to some other place. My point is, someone can’t have a pizza and then decide after eating that the pizza wasn’t good they won’t pay for it. What we have received is not a judicial order."
 
 Many other restaurants also say that they will continue to levy service charge and that this will be displayed on the restaurant premises, and the customer can decide if he/she wants to dine there or not. "We put up a board starting Tuesday that service charge is part of our menu, and if the customer doesn’t want to pay it, he/she can walk out of the restaurant. We can’t leave it to the customers to decide after they have dined if they want to pay service charge or not. That will lead to more confusion," says Sahil Sambhi from Molecule Air Bar in Gurgaon.
 
 
 
 
  
  (BCCL/Picture for representational purposes only)
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 When asked about the legal implications of restaurants still mandating service charge, Nitin Gaur, advocate, consumer affairs, tells us, “The department of consumer affairs in the notification has asked restaurant owners to display information about the service charge not being mandatory, and that it will only be paid at the customers’ discretion. The restaurants/bars’ monopolistic approach of informing dinners beforehand, that if they want to dine, the service charge will be applicable, or else services cannot be provided by them, is totally arbitrary and illegal, diluting the intent of the notification, which gives powers to the customer to judge the services and pay service charge. Unless this notification is either stayed or quashed by any court in India, the restaurants/bars cannot deny customers from availing their services solely on the grounds of payment of service charge.”
 
 
 
 It’s application being questioned or not, the news still comes as a breather to many who have often been reluctant to argue even when dissatisfied with service. "Even if we would point it out to the management that we didn’t like the service, or if we asked them why we should pay service charge, they would put things in such a way that it would become embarrassing in front of other guests. Now, at least there is clarity, people know that they can refuse to pay service charge," says Rashi Kukreja, who works in a Noida-based IT firm. "Agar Rs 1000 ka khana khaya toh uske upar tax aur charges itne saare lagate hain that it looks like another list on your bill. The other thing is that service charge varies in different restaurants, leaving customers confused. Now at least there’ll be some control and regulation," says Sarabhjot Singh, an entrepreneur.
 
 
 
 Apart from diners, it’s the waiters who are glad about the notification. "Jab service charge lagna shuru hua tha, tip milne band ho gaye. Toh ab ummeed toh hai ki jo log service charge nahi denge, woh tip dekar jayenge. But west Delhi is one place where no matter if customers decide to pay service charge or not, they’ll still not leave a tip for waiters. Those working in areas like south delhi and CP will surely earn more now," says Bhuvan Arya, who has been a waiter in Delhi for 30 years. Another waiter, Rajat Verma, says, "Waiters surely will concentrate more on the jobs now, since they have the chance to earn good money through tips. Pehle chahe kitna bhi bada restaurant kyon na ho, 90% log tip nahi dete thay ki service charge toh de hi rahe hain. Par ab shayad aisa na ho."
 
 
 
 Restaurateurs maintain that though this may sound as good news to customers, the service charge was for the common interest of all. “While guests were saved from paying tips, the amount charged was used in paying our service and kitchen staff. And in case customers were dissatisfied with the service, they were mostly offered something complimentary. After this, no matter how good the service, the majority of people will like to remain dissatisfied to not pay service charge,” says Bhuvnesh Bhalla, who owns a restaurant in west Delhi.
 
 Restaurateur   says that internationally, service charge is a common practice. "But now we will keep it as part of the menu, and have it optional for guests. We will come to know how good or bad in days to come," he says.
 
 But Restaurateur Rahul Singh, also the honorary secretary of the NRAI, asks, "Across the world, service charge or gratuity is common practice and accepted by the consumer as they know this is for the entire crew - front of house, kitchen, housekeeping, security et al - which works through odd hours, holidays and weekends to provide a perfect dine-in experience. Home delivery or coffee chains don’t levy this charge as it is an over-the-counter transaction. The service charge is levied in other facilities also, even while booking tickets online, so why just single out restaurants?"
 
