Ahmedabad: The D Gang led by underworld don Dawood Ibrahim and his brother Anees Ibrahim operates from Pakistan. According to top state police officials, Safdar Khatri, the nephew of Jamnagar businessman Ashfaq Khatri emailed a complaint to a central agency with the Pakistan mobile phone number of Anees Ibrahim.

 Safdar, who lives in Dubai, stated that he is being harassed and threatened over the phone by Salim Chiplun, a gang member and Dawood’s brother Anees Ibrahim, to get him to enter a partnership with them.
 
 Senior police officials said Ashfaq introduced a tobacco product (khaini) the brand name “HOT” in Dubai. “With the launch of HOT in Dubai, Anees Ibrahim’s tobacco product took a severe beating. Hence, first through Salim Chiplun, Anees threatened Safdar and Ashfaq to enter a partnership with them,” added a top police official.
 
 According to top police sources, Anees then himself made threatening calls to Safdar and his uncle Ashaq, who would go to Dubai periodically.
 
 “Some time ago, Safdar, who is lives in Dubai, emailed a complaint to a central agency with the Pakistan phone number of Anees Ibrahim, urging them to save him and his business,” added a top police official.
 
 Senior police sources said the D Gang knew it would be difficult to kill Safdar or Ashfaq in Dubai, as the laws there are very stringent. “Safdar and Ashaq then stopped taking calls from the D Gang, which further frustrated Anees,” added a police source.
 
 According to police sources, about a month ago, Anees contacted his hitman Ramdas Rane and told him to eliminate Ashfaq Khatri in Jamnagar.
 
 “Rane has worked for Anees for 20 years. He has executed two murders and attempted seven for the D Gang in Mumbai. Rane contacted Vinit Kundlik, Sandip Dayanand and Anil Dhilod. They first conducted a recce in Jamnagar and returned to Mumbai. They then came back with firearms and ammunition to eliminate Ashaq Khatri. We caught them on the bus before they could do anything,” added a top police official.
 
 
