AMRITSAR: With re-polling scheduled for Thursday at 28 polling booths in Majitha assembly segment, Wednesday remained eventful with both   and Akali leaders levelling charges against each other for reportedly taking help of outsiders in the constituency and distributing money and liquor to allure voters. Even AAP jumped the bandwagon and demanded that all booths be declared super sensitive in the constituency.

 Media coordinator of AAP Sukhdeep Singh Sidhu said that a delegation led by party's Majitha assembly constituency candidate Himmat Singh Shergill met Punjab chief electoral officer (CEO) VK Singh in this regard.
 
 He said that, “We have also demanded deployment of paramilitary forces with special vigil at night. He also alleged that Akalis were distributing money to woo voters. Shergill, however, said the party didn't complain to the CEO as they were not bothered by voters taking money from leaders, but only wanted them to vote for AAP .
 
 Congress candidate from Majitha, Sukhjinder Raj Singh Lalli Majithia, claimed that his party workers had nabbed Akali leaders from Jalandhar while distributing money among voters. Accusing police of serving the interests of the ruling SAD, he alleged that the police conducted a raid at his house but were shooed away by his wife since it didn't have search warrants. Lalli Majithia claimed that a Congress sarpanch had been implicated in a false police case. “Akalis are trying their best to threaten and allure voters,“ he alleged.
 
 On the other hand, Punjab cabinet minister and SAD candidate   alleged that Congress leaders were distributing money and liquor in the area to woo voters. He said the police had arrested district Congress committee (rural) vice-president Mohan Singh Nibberwind and sarpanch of Marari Kalan village Balwinder Singh Bamb in this connection.
 
 Majitha DSP Harsimrat Singh Chhetra said the police had registered a case under Section 171-E (punishment for bribery) of the IPC against Congress candidate   and two of his associates and recovered Rs 52,000 from them. He said that a case had been registered and if anything incriminating was found, they would take further action. He said the police had also booked sarpanch of Marari Kalan village and seized two cartons of liquor from him.
 
 
 
 
 Majitha DSP Harsimrat Singh Chhetra said the police had registered a case under Section 171-E (punishment for bribery) of the IPC against Congress candidate Ranjit Singh Rana and two of his associates and recovered Rs 52,000 from them
 
