Chennai: Microfinance institutions (MFIs) saw a steep increase in defaults for the October-December quarter, as demonetisation impacted small businesses and thereby impacting repayment of loans. MFIs say it is the first time their NPAs have risen to levels of 7-10%. 

 The Rs 60,000 crore cash-rich microfinance industry has been dealt a hard blow as most of their borrowers take their loans in cash and repay in cash. Even those with bank accounts still operate in cash. 
 
 "Despite the efforts to increase cashless disbursement, majority of the disbursements were still cash based. Because of the withdrawal limits imposed on current accounts, MFIs were not able to withdraw cash for further disbursement and the incremental disbursements were restricted to the collections," said analyst Samarth Khare in a CARE Ratings report. "However the ratio of disbursements to collections fell to around 30% by the second week of December 2016. The main reason for this significant drop in disbursements was due to the focus of MFIs shifting from disbursements to collections."
 
 MFIs said that they have seen a sharp rise in bad loans or NPA accounts. "We normally maintain an NPA rate of 0.9%. Even for the June-September quarter our NPA was below 1%. This was the first time we saw such a sharp spike," said R Bhaskar Rao, CEO, Suryoday Small Finance Bank
 
 At another leading MFI, which has more than 1.20 lakh accounts, before demonetisation the number of defaulting accounts was restricted to 40-50 accounts. "After demonetisation it has increased to 2,000 accounts. This is of course not taking into account the extra window of 90 days that the Reserve Bank of India. As a microfinance institution we would of course like to see our performance without the RBI window -- which is an external event. It is worrisome to see the sharp increase in book size," said its CEO. 
 
 Equitas Small Finance Bank, saw overall disbursement down 24% quarter-over-quarter as a direct result of demonetisation. "Vehicle finance disbursement was down 14%; MSE offerings disbursement down 37% and we saw an impact in deliquency and collection efficiency," said the bank.
 
 Its total portfolio at risk increased to 3.85% of total MF portfolio and number of delinquent customers touched 1.46 lakh as on 31 December, 2016. The SFB has also made an additional NPA provision of Rs 15 crore in Q3FY17 to enhance its provision coverage to 68.6%.
 
 MFIs said that a large number of customers, who have defaulted are long-standing customers of theirs for six years and more. "Small businesses have been heavily impacted. There has been a slowdown in the overall economy; less orders," said Rao. 
 
 Would the non-payment hurt their credit scores? "At this point for most businesses it is about survival. They just want to tide it over. They are expecting a bad fourth quarter too. So, we don't expect the impact to last beyond that. But credit scores are more a concern for us as an MFI than for our customers," said Rao.
 
 
 
