PUNE: The recent spate of reports about children being attacked on the school premises or on  , has resulted in parents and schools going the extra mile to protect children.

 Mobile applications that deliver services like school bus tracking, route deviation alert, SMS on pick up and drop, driverattendant verification details, etc. have gained in popularity among school authorities as well as concerned parents. Many schools have already subscribed to these mobile apps for their buses. Even the parents are more than willing to shell out some extra money for these apps.
 
 Rupam  , a parent, said, “Following the recent incidents involving school students in cities across the country , we are doing everything possible to ensure the safety of our children. A private mini bus has been contracted for our children. Therefore, in our society in Aundh, the parents, whose children travel by this mini bus, got together and worked out a monthly subscription with mobile app providers. The apps give us by-the-minute information of our child when he she is travelling to and from school.“
 
 Like Mayekar, many other parents have taken safety measures and have subscribed to mobile applications that provide services such as alerts and messaging to the connected mobile numbers.  , the pa rent of a six-year-old, said, “We do not mind spending an additional Rs 500 for a mobile app, which is for the safety of our children. The price range is between Rs 399-Rs 999 per month for various app providers. Some of the features, like `alert on route deviation,' are really very helpful.“
 
 Prashant Patel, managing director, Sahaj Tracker, which provides GPS vehicle tracking systems, said, “There is an increased demand for tracking systems from across the cities in India.Earlier, there were very poor awareness levels about the benefits of the tracking systems. But recent incidents have prompted parents to be more alert. They insist that the bus operators get the tracking system. In two to three weeks, the business has gone up by almost 25%.“
 
