LUCKNOW: Even as uncertainty prevailed over Ajit Singh-led  's possible role in the antiBJP alliance in UP ,   (SP) national president and CM   remained closeted with party general secretary   for over eight hours to draw the final list of candidates for the Assembly elections.

 Amid reports that SP was not keen on having RLD in the alliance, its national vice-president Kiranmoy Nanda confirmed that RLD's role was not on the agenda of discussion with Congress.
 
 For Akhilesh, on the other hand, the first task is not only to prepare a list in line with the seat-sharing formula with the Congress, but also to accommodate most of the 38 candidates whose names had been forwarded by party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav on Tuesday .
 
 There were indications that the SP chief was not in favor of giving tickets to all candidates on Mulayam's list. He is also likely to issue a fresh list of candidates for Uttarakhand polls. With the SP-Congress alliance taking a final shape, backroom discussions over a final seat-sharing formula continued till late on Wednesday evening, giving indications that a formal announcement about the pact could come anytime.
 
 Meanwhile, highly placed sources close to the SP boss told TOI that the Congress leadership is mounting pressure for a grand alliance on the lines of the Mahagathbandhan during the Assembly polls in Bihar and including smaller political parties also. Akhilesh, however, appears reluctant to spare any more seats other than the quota that it has set aside for the Congress.
 
 Akhilesh's present stance with regard to any pact with the RLD is in line with his father's approach when talks of an SPRLD pact had gained momentum a couple of months ago. Wary that the RLD may shift loyalties after the elections in case of a hung House, Mulayam had offered a merger.
 
 Akhilesh toughening his stance with regards to a pre-poll tie-up with Ajit Singh's party is also said to be based on ground reports from RLD's area of influence in western UP where Muslims may not go with the Jats particularly in the light of the Muzaffarnagar riots and alleged Kairana exodus. The SP leaders also feel that since their party does not have a strong Jat leader and much support in western UP , having an alliance and handing over the region to the RLD would further weaken the party in this area.
 
 However, for the RLD it will be major setback if it fails to get an entry in the proposed Grand alliance against the BJP .Like the BSP , RLD too was decimated completely in the Modi wave in 2014 Assembly elections and is also fighting for its survival in the political landscape.
 
