CHENNAI: While industry bodies appreciated the Tamil Nadu budget's plans for enhancing investment and creation of funds for small and medium enterprises, there was concern that the budget does not directly address the rising fiscal deficit.

 Terming the budget populist, CII chairman P Ravichandran said, “Tamil Nadu always used to grow at 1415%, far higher than the national average. Now that figure has come down to 9%.The budget does not seem to have any new revenue generating ideas.“
 
 However, there were some concrete measures to promote business such as strengthening single window clearance, expansion of metro rail, city road, launch of phase 2 of the Investment Promotion Programme and funds for MSMEs, said CII.
 
 Allocation of Rs 2,000 crore for the Tamil Nadu Infrastructure Development Fund (TNIDF) would give a big boost to infrastructure expenditure, he added.
 
 Over the allocation of Rs 532 crore for MSME sector in the budget, Tirupur Exporters' Association president Raja M Shanmugham said doubling the allocation would benefit MSME units in Tirupur, as more than 80% of total units in the region come under the MSME category. The industry also welcomed the launch of special export promotion and marketing support scheme for Rs 10 crore.
 
 CII chairman Ramachandran said earmarking Rs 150 crore to provide vocational training to youth would go a long way in increasing the entrepreneurial drive in the state.
 
 The gover nment's increased support to farmer producer org anizations could be a game changer if clusters are formed with cold chain infrastructure and a comprehensive food processing policy is framed. It is also heartening to note that the budget addressed water shortage issues, as many industries like tanneries, textiles units and chemical fac tories have heavy usage requirements.
 
 The industry, however, called for the early implemention of GST. “It is critical that the government not increase VAT in view of GST.They should also provide for digital signing of invoices to expedite the process. We also want the gover nment to speed up work on the Madurai-Tuticorin Industrial corridor and ease traffic congestion on arterial roads such as GST,“ said Ramachandran.
 
 The Tiruppur Exporter's Association said the state's decision to train 1 lakh youth was commendable. “This skill development programme will help us recruit qualified staff and increase productivity in semi-urban areas. We intend to ask the government for assistance in direct recruitments from the programme,“ said Shanmugham.
 
 
 
 
 Energy sector continued to attract major allocation, second to school education in the Tamil Nadu budget. Finance minister D Jayakumar allocated Rs 16,998 crore for the energy sector in the coming year even as the percapita consumption of power increased to 1,280 units. National average of percapita power consumption is only Rs 1,075 units. The government apart from allocating `8,538 crore towards provision of free power to farmers and 100 units to domestic consumers and weavers, has also allocated Rs 974 crore for setting up of a green energy corridor with German assistance. The government proposes to modernise age-old hydro power plants. “Resources will be raised through revenue bonds, an innovative financial instrument which will be subscribed by Tamil Nadu Investment Fund,“ said Jayakumar.
 
