GURUGRAM: After years of struggling with illegally parked autos, the city will now have designated stands for them. MCG has identified 52 locations across Gurugram, which will be the only locations where autos will be allowed to park. The stands will be set up by early next week. The move is aimed at decongesting the city, as illegally parked autos are one of the prime causes of congestion on many of the city’s main roads.

 Gurugram has over 7,500 CNG and 16,500 diesel autos registered with the regional transport authority. Besides these, there are over 10,000 that ply unlicensed in the district. Autos are also quite infamous for being driven rashly and for overcharging. But what bothers traffic police the most is illegally parked autos.
 
 Auto drivers encroach a chunk of the road by parking their vehicles on the sides of main roads. A trip to areas like Huda City Centre, MG Road, Subhash Chowk, the Old Gurugram Bus Stand, Sadar Bazar, etc., will reveal how difficult it has become to find a stretch to walk in these congested areas, let alone drive a car. At least one lane is always encroached by illegally parked autos. In fact, Gurgram traffic police conducted extensive   in the second half of 2016 to curb the menace. Over 5,000 autos were challaned and over 1,000 impounded for   in the latter half of 2016.
 
 Finally, traffic police has designated 52 points as designated auto stands. The main areas include DLF Cyber City, Sohna road, Delhi-Gurugram expressway and parts of Old Gurugram. Commuters can hire autos from these stands alone, and autos will not be allowed to be parked anywhere else. Traffic police and MCG has identified the spots, which had enough vacant space, and will develop these as   before this month-end. MCG will install signage so that commuters can locate the stands easily.
 
 “Illegally parked autos are one of the major causes of snarls on busy stretches. We tried to discipline them by challaning and impounding, but it only had a marginal impact. So we have had talks with auto unions and drivers to arrive at this solution,” said Sibash Kabiraj, joint commissioner of police, Gurugram. Traffic police will take action, such as challaning, against drivers who are found to park autos at any other place. The unions have been asked to maintain a record of all autos, so they can track which auto uses stands, or not.
 
 “We welcome the move, because currently we’re in fear of being challaned. We’ve started numbering autos and if there are any illegal vehicles, we’ll get them registered with RTA,” said Mahabir Singh, head of the Gurugram auto union.
 
 
