THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The capital district has no land available with any of the local bodies for industrial purpose, according to the latest report prepared by the local self-government department (LSGD). The report shows details of land available with local bodies in the state for the promotion of small scale enterprises as part of a project being planned by the industries department. The proposal envisages utilization of vacant plots with local bodies in the coming years for promoting micro and small enterprises.

 With not a single vacant plot available for  , Thiruvananthapuram presents a dismal picture. Though the situation is not much brighter in other districts, with each having 1-5 plots of vacant land, the non-availability of land for development projects has exposed the biggest challenge facing local bodies in the district.
 
 “We had communicated the audit on available land to all local bodies. It was never a matter of non-compliance in the case of Thiruvananthapuram. Capital district faces scarcity of land to plan development projects,” said a senior LSGD official associated with the report.
 
 As per the data prepared by the town planning wing, the industrial land use was having an area of 0.43 sq km in 1966 in the city, occupying an area of 0.5%. In 1990 the industrial area increased and accounted for 2% of total area. The setting of new industries during this period increased the area under industries. As per the 2012 data, the industrial area is having an area of 1.82 sq km. The area of the industries remained almost same because, during this period no large scale industries were set up as the demand of area increased and the value of land also increased.
 
 District panchayat president V K Madhu admitted that shortage of land has forced the panchayat to omit certain schemes from the plan outlay. The severity of the problem has been such that the panchayat is set to purchase land to set up crematoriums. Land purchase is being done by the panchayat for the first time. An amount of Rs 3.5 crore has been set aside to purchase 4-5 plots. “The issue has also crippled the progress of ABC scheme and setting up of slaughter houses. Land availability has been a major concern for us,” said V K Madhu.
 
 The city corporation also shares the same tale, which was forced to abandon key projects due to non-availability of land. The idea to start an industrial centre at Pappanamcode on 8.5 acres was cancelled after encroachment was reported on the same site. The city corporation’s dream project of having its own petrol pump and a shopping complex at Jagathy was aborted following a notification from the revenue department which said that the land belonged to the revenue department and not to the corporation. The corporation had recently decided to purchase land to set up a centralized waste treatment facility.
 
 “ Scarcity of land is a huge issue for Thiruvananthapuram,” said mayor V K Prasanth.
 
