PATNA: CPI(ML) general secretary   on Sunday called upon his party’s rank and file to launch militant struggle for the rights of the poor and homeless to education, employment and homestead land. He said the life of people in general had been made extremely difficult by the note ban imposed by PM   while CM Nitish Kumar had reduced the issues of governance to merely ‘organizing events’.
 
  Bhattacharya also gave a call to forge a bigger popular movement on the issues of right to education, employment and homestead land in the state, and in the same vein, appealed to individuals, organizations and adherents of the thoughts of Ram Manohar Lohia and B R Ambedkar, engaged in local level movements on the rights issues, to come under the orbit of the CPI (ML) for the purpose.
  
  Address the party’s ‘Adhikar Rally’ here to voice concerns over the growing instances of repression on democratic struggle occurring under the BJP-led NDA rule at the Centre and under the grand alliance government headed by CM Nitish in Bihar, Bhattacharya said, “The situation in Bihar is strange. The grand alliance government advocates governance, social justice and development with justice, but the homeless are being dispossessed of even their homestead land in various parts of the state. The CM talks about empowering girl students by giving them school uniform and bicycles, but senior dalit girl Dika Kumari was not only gang-raped, but also killed in the school hostel.”
  
  “We want to tell CM Nitish merely managing events (like human chain on total prohibition and  ) would not do any good to people,” Bhattacharya said and demanded setting up of a judicial commission to probe irregularities in examinations for recruitment of government staff in the state.
  
  He recalled the names of the CPI(ML) rank and file killed recently by the landholders and their “hired goons” owing allegiance to the constituents of the grand alliance and the NDA. “The situation calls for militant counter-protest and also a bigger popular movement,” Bhattacharya added.
  
  Of the five other Left parties active in Bihar, CPI state secretary Satya Narayan Singh and   state secretary Awadhesh Kumar also addressed the CPI (ML) rally as a mark of fraternal support.
  
  The other notable speakers included former MP Rameshwar Prasad, MLAs Sudama Prasad and Mahboob Alam, besides senior party functionaries Rajaram Singh, Dhirendra Jha, Kavita Krishnan, S K Sharma, Jitendra Yadav, Gopal Ravidas, Shashi Yadav and Saroj Choubey. Fatima Nafis, mother of missing JNU student Nazeeb Ahmad, Kusumi Devi, mother of Dika Kumari of Vaishali, also addressed the rally.
  
  Speakers dwelt on how the note ban had resulted in virtual ‘kaambandi (cessation of work)’ in the unorganized sector, resulting in the return of migrant labourers from UP and Bihar back to their home states, while the informal sector (accounting for 57% of the GDP) and businesses of small traders had been badly hit.
