MYSURU: The counting of votes for the   and Gundlupet on Thursday will reveal the winners and losers by noon.

 The results are crucial for the Congress and BJP, which had unleashed highdecibel campaigns. Counting staff will have to count 1.56 lakh votes in Nanjangud and 1.89 lakh in Gundlupet. While there are 17 rounds in Nanjangud, there are 16 rounds in Gundlupet.
 
 As an extra layer of transparency , micro-observers assigned to oversee counting will be randomized. Each counting table will have one video grapher to record the process.
 
 Proceedings at the counting centre in Nanjangud will be webcast which can be accessed only at the Election Commission.
 
 The counting hall at JSS College, Nanjangud, will be free of electronic devices during counting. Mobile phones and other electronic devices will not be allowed in the hall. This applies to the Mysuru deputy commissioner D Randeep and returning officer   also.
 
 Staff will be allowed in the counting hall after the anti-sabotage team of the district police santitizes and certifies that the room is free of any electronic device, Randeep said.
 
 Though the voter verifiable paper audit trail (VVPAT) machines were used for the first time, the data will not be used during counting. Only during extraordinary cases will data be used after the VVPATs are opened. Like in EVMs, data secured from VVPATs will be sealed and secured for six months, he said.
 
 Chamarajanagar DC B Ramu said counting will be taken up at four rooms at St John's School and monitored by one district-level officer. He said the strong room where EVMs and VVPATs are stored is under paramilitary force custody . It'll be taken over by local police before 7.30am when the strong room will be opened.
 
 Tense moments:
 
 Ahead of counting, the political temperature has increased, causing police to hold meetings in sensitive villages, mainly in the reserved segment of Nanjangud. Five DySPs have been assigned the job of ensuring law and order after results are out, Mysuru SP   said.
 
 The special squad with magisterial powers will be on the job between 6am and 10pm. In all, four DySPs, 15 inspectors, 52 sub-inspectors, 10 KSRP platoons and 14 DAR platoons have been deployed. Besides, two CISF platoons will be deployed at the counting centre.
 
 
