New Delhi: After banning sale of fire crackers in the national capital region and imposing a cess on   SUVs with engine capacity of 2000cc and more, the Supreme Court decided on Friday to examine whether sale and registration of diesel-run medium and heavy commercial   should also be banned to deal with rising levels of air pollution in the capital. 

 This comes two days after the apex court banned sale and registration of all BS-III vehicles from April 1 across the country. 
 
 A bench of Justices Madan B Lokur and Sanjay Kishan Kaul said it would take a call whether sale of   vehicles be also banned in the city and sought response from the manufacturers. 
 
 The court was hearing a plea filed by Tata Motors seeking clarification of the apex court’s earlier order passed of December 16, 2015 when sale of SUVs was banned till March 31, 2016.
 
 Senior advocate Gopal Jain, appearing for Tata Motors, told the bench that apex court’s 2016   order was specifically for SUVs and private cars and medium and heavy commercial vehicle were exempted from the order. 
 
 He said that the Delhi transport department was under the impression that registration of all diesel vehicles above 2000 CC was banned by court and urged the court to clarify its order.
 
 He said clarification was required as no new vehicle was being registered by the transport department. The bench, however, said why shouldn’t the ban be extended to medium and heavy commercial vehicles.
 
 “Tell us why registration of medium and heavy commercial vehicles be not also banned. We will consider it,” the bench said.
 
 Sensing the mood of the bench, Jain said he should be given time to argue the case on the issue and urged the court not to pass any order without hearing. 
 
 The court also expressed concern over traffic congestion on Delhi’s roads, which aggravated the problem of pollution. It said the problem needed immediate attention and issued notice to the transport and environment secretaries of NCT government seeking their response on steps taken by them to deal with the problem.
 
