

 The simplest definition of explosives is any substance that produces a rapidly expanding gas when it is detonated. It is generally believed that black powder (the earliest known explosive) was first discovered by the Chinese around the 10th century. Later, the Arabs were probably the first to use it for military purposes when they developed a gun that uses the charge produced by this powder to fire an arrow. The next step was the discovery of nitroglycerine, which was first made in 1846. In the early days of its discovery, nitroglycerine was largely used in laboratory tests until   invented the blasting cap in 1865 that paved the way for commercial use of this explosive. In 1867, Nobel discovered dynamite that was based on nitroglycerine and was far more reliable for commercial use than other explosives available at that time. In 1875, Nobel invented a water resistant and more powerful gelatinous dynamite, which was a commercial success. The next big development in commercial explosives, largely used in the mining industry, was the discovery of ANFO or ammonium nitrate/fuel oil. Discovered in 1955, ANFO is among the most used commercial explosives today.
 
 
 
 
 The military has requirements from an explosive that are different from the mining industry’s needs. These explosives are much more stable at room temperature and are significantly more powerful. TNT, which is the common name of the chemical 2,4,6-trinitrotoluene, is the world’s most widely used solid military explosive. In most nitrogen-based solid explosives, the nitro groups are so closely packed that even a small initiation can break some of the strained bonds, which triggers the collapse of the molecule. As a result, the solid quickly converts into gas and hence there is a sudden increase in the volume. Typically, one gram of TNT produces about 1 litre of gas, a 1,000 times increase in volume. Its high detonation velocity of 6,940 m/s makes it further lethal. The detonation velocity is the speed at which the shockwave front travels in the surrounding air. The increase in volume is also accompanied with the release of a great amount of thermal energy. The expanding hot gas can be either used to propel a projectile or for demolition purposes. ¢So is it a risky explosive to carry? TNT is highly stable in normal conditions and hence its handling is reasonably safe. The chance of a spontaneous explosion of TNT is very low. In order to initiate the explosion, TNT must first be detonated using a pressure wave from another explosive called a detonator. One of the popular detonators is lead azide, which explodes when struck or if an electric discharge is passed through it.
 
 
 
 
 RDX, which is the abbreviated form of Royal Demolition eXplosive or Research Department (composition) X is the common name of cyclotrimethylenetrinitramine. Because of its high stability in common conditions and its usefulness in various mixtures, it is the second most widely used military explosive after TNT. RDX is rarely used alone; it is usually mixed with other explosives, oil and waxes for more customised effects depending on the specific need of the situation. Apart from the military, it is also used for controlled demolition of old buildings.
 
 
 
 
 PETN or pentaerythritol tetranitrate is a more powerful explosive than TNT. It is more sensitive to shock or friction than TNT. Its lower sensitivity for shocks and its ability to explode in small devices makes it a suitable substance for the core of detonating cords and fuses. It can never be used as the lone booster as it also needs a low intensity explosion or shock to initiate the detonation reaction. It is also used as the detonator in some land mines and sometimes as prescribed medication for certain heart disorders.
 
 
 
 
 Plastic explosives typically consist of an explosive mixed with an oil, wax or plastic resin. They are soft and hand malleable and hence can be easily shaped in any form. They can be used over a wider temperature range than pure explosives. The most common plastic explosives are Semtex (RDX plus PETN) and C-4, also based on RDX, which became popular after the Vietnam War. Plastic explosives can be handled rather roughly as normal fire doesn’t initiate the reaction. During the  , C-4 was also used as cooking fuel, although it produces poisonous fumes.
 
