Selfie addiction might afflict a lot of us, but if you are an SOL (School of Open Learning) student enrolled in   and a selfie addict, you might be suspended for a day if you are caught clicking selfies in the college. A notice put up at main gate states in Hindi, "Many students in the college’s premises have been found clicking selfies, combing their hair and modelling in the gallery. The college does not approve of misusing the time meant for studying and if someone is found misusing their time, they will be suspended for a day from the college." The notice is unsigned under the name of the coordinator,  , Miranda House. But the college principal tells us that this notice came out on November 27, and she doesn’t understand why a fuss is being made now.
 
 The college authorities explain that they have just asked the students to be careful, but SOL students claim it’s like taking away their basic right, and why only them and not regular students of the college?
 
 
 
 The notice has now become a topic of discussion in the college. While some regular students are happy that it has got nothing to do with them, others feel that it wasn’t needed. Jagriti Singh, an SOL student, says, "This is wrong and stupid. We all know selfies are in trend. How can you ask someone not to click selfies? Aapka result nahi kharab ho raha na? Toh kya fark padta hai – chahe hum selfies lein ya modelling karein? Aur sabko itni samajh hoti hai ki woh apne aap ko hurt nahin karenge selfies click karte time."
 
 Roshni Kumari, another SOL student, adds, "Kaun aake roz dekhega ki hum selfie le rahe hain ki nahin? Ye toh basic right hai ki hum comb karenge aur selfies click karenge. Ban hi karna tha toh sabke liye karte, sirf SOL ke students ke liye kyun?"
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 A regular Miranda House student from the final year says, "If they have put up the notice keeping safety issues in mind, I am with the college, because nobody should be hurt while clicking selfies. But why only SOL? Isn’t this segregating them from us? You can’t quantify studies on the basis of ‘How many times do you click selfies or comb your hair’, that is irrelevant. We are still clicking selfies in college and nobody is saying anything to us."
 
 
 
 A staff member tells us that the college has beautiful and picturesque structures, so most of the time, the students from SOL spend their time clicking photos outside the classrooms. "Yeh log upar chadh jaate hain aur photos click karte rehte hain. Pillars ke aas paas bhi selfies click karte hain. What if something happens to someone? Tab toh college ki safety ko question karenge na." Another staff member adds, "Yeh log sirf modelling karte hain, padhai nahin. Upar balconies mein jaake bhi photos click karte hain jo dangerous hai. Kam se kam 10 baar comb karte hain aur selfies click karte hain college aake, bas."
 
 
 
 Pratibha Jolly, the college principal, says that the notice is not a formal order, but more like an advisory. She says, "Miranda House is deeply committed to women’s education at all levels. That is the reason for running both SOL and Non Collegiate Women’s Education Board (NCWEB) classes. It was found that student groups have been increasingly perching dangerously on parapet walls to create  . They were gently advised by the staff to focus on attending classes. Teachers do try in their own way to encourage students to make the most of the face-to-face contact classes and the opportunity provided.” The principal also adds, “The notice being shown is dated November 27, and is not signed by anyone. I am baffled why this is being discussed."
 
