KOCHI: After a wait of more than two years, nearly 403 children with   would undergo brainstem evoked response audiometry (BERA) at   general hospital. The test will help the doctors understand the extent of   and finalise the course of treatment that would help them hear better. 

 From December, 2014, onwards, 7,206 newborns were screened for hearing defect at the Ernakulam general hospital. But the hospital didn't have that facility for running the BERA test on 403 kids who were diagnosed with hearing impairment in varying degrees. The state government has decided to provide BERA equipment to 14 district hospitals.
 
 In another three months, the government plans to make the screening mandatory in 66 government hospitals that has facilities for child birth. Government has set aside Rs 12 cr for helping people with hearing impairment.
 
 "Cochlear implants are being done for the past five years and we have realised that the results are better if the intervention is early," said Dr  , executive director,   (KSSM). To ensure this, Otoacoustic emission (OAE) testing equipment will be given to 66 government hospitals and BERA in 14 hospitals.
 
 As per the plan, children born in government hospitals will be screened for hearing disabilities within two days. There is time till three months for those opting for private sector to get screened using OAE test. After three months, those who have a hearing problem will undergo BERA test. At six months the child will be given a hearing aid. 
 
 After 18 months if the hearing aid is found to be of no benefit, then cochlear implant will be considered. Between 18 months and two years, the child will get audio rehab and by the time they would be ready to go for school, they would be perfectly fine.
 
 "Cochlear implants are being done for the past five years and we have realised that the results are better if the intervention is early," said Dr Mohammed Asheel, executive director, Kerala Social Security Mission (KSSM). To ensure this Otoacoustic emission (OAE) testing equipment will be provided in 66 government hospitals and BERA in 14 hospitals.
 
 "The hearing screening can detect signs of impairment and congenital auditory problems. The child can benefit from necessary early intervention in the form of hearing aids or cochlear implants," said Dr Asheel.
 
 One in 25,000 children in India are born deaf. In Kerala, the prevalence is less due to awareness and successful immunisation programme. There are about 200 children born deaf in the state every year. 
 
