KRISHNAGORE: Chief minister   on Friday said that “three promoting entities” were behind the stir at Bhangar against a  . But such attempts will not derail the rural electrification drive in the state, she added. “If people do not want it, we will not do anything there. But work will go on where people want it,” the   said.

 “The power sub-station project was almost complete. Out of 28 towers, 24 were erected. But three promoting entities, who wanted to build multi-storeyed buildings near the sub-station, hatched the conspiracy,” she said. “With the high-tension electric transmission lines, they could not have come up with their real estate projects,” she said. “They hired anti-social elements from outside, offering cash, to create disturbances there (Bhangar) so that the power sub-station project could not come up,” Banerjee added.
 
 Banerjee said her government had been working to deal with the problems of low voltage and that’s why the sub-stations were being set up across districts. “The opposition parties — Bharatiya Janata Party, CPM — and others, including the Maoists, have been planning to create disturbances in some areas where such projects were going on,” she said at an administrative meeting in Nadia.
 
 Meanwhile, Left parties and civil rights groups on Friday accused the state government of forcibly acquiring land for a power grid project in Bhangar block and the police of “killing” two protesters. They demanded that a judicial probe be conducted into the two deaths, allegedly due to police firing in January this year and release of other protesters, comprising largely local farmers, who were “jailed on false charges”.
 
 “Land for the project was acquired violating laws and there was no transparency. People stand hoodwinked. A   syndicate is at work there,” CPI-ML (Liberation) general secretary   alleged. The Left parties and civil rights groups — People’s Union for Civil Liberties, Mazdoor Kranti Parishad and Women Against Sexual Violence and State Repression — said they would stage protests in Delhi and Kolkata later this month. They have also lined up a public hearing, to be chaired by retired justice A K Shah, in Bhangar on May 20 and 21.
 
 Bhangar, known for its history of political violence, was on the boil earlier in 2017 over “forced” acquisition of 16 acres of farmland — spread across the villages of Khamarait, Machhi Bhanga, Tona and Padmapukur — by the state government for setting up the sub-station by the Power Grid Corporation of India Ltd (PGCIL).
 
 
