PUNE: Sujan Mukhopadhyay is an admirer of the original Ghashiram Kotwal production by Jabbar Patel in  , but he claims the   adaptation of the play, written by playwright Vijay Tendulkar in 1972, is entirely his own – conceived according to his own vision and outlook.

 “I watched the Marathi production when I was young. I love and admire it. It had great actors like Mohan Agashe on stage. But in my production, I have staged it according to my own vision and outlook,” said Mukhopadhyay, who has also translated the play into Bengali from the English translation, along with Abanti Chakraborty.
 
 The production of Vijay Tendulkar’s magnum opus in Bengali, performed by the Kolkata-based   group Chetona, staged its 37th show at the Balgandharva Rangmandir on Monday evening, a little more than a year after its first show at the   in Kolkata.
 
 The group also performed in Mumbai last week, including at the   auditorium at Breach Candy. The director says he is mighty pleased with the reception.
 
 “We were a bit apprehensive about staging it in Maharashtra, especially when the play Ghashiram Kotwal is held in such high esteem by people in the region. But I was surprised to see the kind of reception our performance received in the Mumbai productions, including requests for another staging,” Mukhopadhyay, also a known face in Bengali film and television, remarked.
 
 Mukhopadhyay himself played Nana Phadnavis at the show in Balgandharva. His co-actors were mostly drawn from the Minerva Repertory, known as a breeding ground for up and coming stage actors. For many of them, this is one of their first forays into a full-scale production. Apart from them, most of the crew are experienced hands, including music director Debjyoti Mishra, most known for scoring the song of the film Raincoat, and many other Bengali films.
 
 As for the structure of the play, most dialogues have been retained, albeit in a translated form, sprinkled with occasional dialogues in Marathi. The theme of politicking and Machiavellianism has also been largely adhered to, but not without minor changes, because of what the director called the “timeless appeal” of the play.
 
 “The play is in essence a political drama. So of course politics is hugely important in any production of Ghashiram Kotwal. But it is also a musical. The importance of dance is also marked here, and so is that of sexuality. Because of the timeless appeal of the play, a few changes have also been made in dialogue and set design, so the audience can relate to it, and yet not lose the original vision of the play,” he said.
 
 The audience members were mostly members of the sizeable Bengali community in the city, but there were some surprising exceptions.
 
 “Although I am from this city, I am married to a Bengali man and I have largely picked up the language from him. So I have come to watch this production out of curiosity as to how the producers handled the play, which is one of my favourites in Marathi,” said Swati Dere, while waiting for the show to begin.
 
 
