LUCKNOW: Over 90% meat retail shops in the city have been operating without   for over two years now. In 2014-15, LMC closed the three   in Lucknow which supplied meat to these shops. 

  LMC had then promised to provide an alternate mechanism of supply for smooth functioning of the shops.
 
  However, the promise was never fulfilled. In the meantime, the corporation also stopped issuing/renewing licences. 
 
 The butchers' association claims their legitimate business was turned illegal overnight and the orders to close all shops without licenses would hit the livelihood of over 50,000 people associated with the trade. 
 
 The three abattoirs were closed following 2012 Supreme Court guidelines that mechanised slaughterhouses should be built outside the city so that processing of meat could be done in a hygienic manner, without affecting life around it. LMC had then announced to construct modernised slaughterhouses at Mohanlalganj and Motijheel. When TOI visited the one of the biggest meat markets near Ballochpura in Old City on Wednesday, it found all shops were closed and butchers were sitting idle, protesting against the corporation's apathy. There are around 1,000 big and small meat shops in the city but there is no slaughterhouse where big animals can be butchered for meat as per official records, leaving no option for them but to get meat from unauthorised sources.
 
  Shahabuddin Qureshi, general secretary of the butcher's association, said, "We have made several attempts to get the licence. We have made numerous written complaints and met higher officials many times but that hasn't yielded anything. We have also approached the court but nothing came of that either. As a result, all the butchers of the area, most of who have been in this business for over a century, are now running their shops without license and are being called illegal." "We are planning to meet the deputy CM to find a solution. At least we should get licenses. After all, it's not our fault that there is no authorised slaughterhouse in the city," Qureshi added. 
 
 LMC officials, on the other hand, claimed 300 licences had been issued to meat shops. Though half of them had been cancelled and not renewed because they were adjacent to religious spots and educational institutions. 
 
 "How can we issue licences to sell a certain kind of meat when there is no legal place to slaughter the animal. Once mechanised slaughterhouses are built, their licenses will also be renewed," said A K Rao, the veterinary officer of LMC.
 
 
