NEW DELHI: The   on Thursday strongly advocated   in the city and asked the   to take steps in this regard.

 In response the government assured the court it plans to include self-defence classes in schools in the next few months.
 
 A bench of Justices S Ravindra Bhat and Justice Yogesh Khanna gave the suggestions while hearing a suo moto case where court is monitoring efforts by all agencies to make city safe for women, post Nirbhaya incident.
 
 During the hearing, HC said that “As a preventive precautionary measure, start self-defence classes so as to arm and strengthen girls and ensure their self-protection. This should include all techniques exclusively given to them on priority basis.”
 
 The court also asked the Delhi government to look into the feasibility of integrating such   into the curriculum of girl students, stressing that there are several self-defence techniques which were “easily doable” and could be “handy” in “immobilising” attackers.
 
 HC took a serious view of the Delhi Victim Compensation Scheme being starved of adequate funds, due to which 308 claims by victims of sexual violence are yet to be processed. The bench ordered Delhi government to release Rs 10 crores within a week’s time to ensure smooth functioning of the compensation fund and asked Delhi Legal Services Authority to monitor it.
 
 The bench was also concerned with delays in working of the forensic labs at Rohini and Chanakyapuri, after it learnt there is no procedure to identify which cases are important and require immediate attention by the lab, and which ones can wait for a few days.
 
 “You must prepare a model roster of guidelines towards treatment of offences. Priority should be given to offences against body, such as murder and rape to ensure the FSL reports are processed fastest in these. Courts have also experienced that many times samples tend to deteriorate,” the court observed. It directed FSL to collect quarterly reports from the labs to assess their pace of improvement.
 
 The directions were given by the court while hearing a PIL initiated by it after the December 16, 2012 gangrape in a moving bus. The court has been giving directions from time to time with regard to improving crime investigation and protection of women in Delhi.
 
 
