GUWAHATI: The onset of the   has infused a worrisome trend in the city as   laced with calcium carbide (CaC2) are thronging  , posing a serious risks to  . The blatant adulteration of the most sought after fruit was brought to light on Tuesday morning when officials of the Kamrup (metro) district food safety department raided some shops at the Fancy Bazaar locality, a commercial hub of the city. 

 At one of the raided shops, officials found 12 trays of mangoes weighing close to one quintal, suspected to be heavily ripened with calcium carbide. The sellers were picked up and sent to the local police station for interrogation.
 
 "We got a tip-off from a source following which we raided some shops. We had long suspected that the sellers were resorting to ripening of mangoes with calcium carbide. Immediately after the raids we informed the police. The police picked up the sellers and sent them to the Fancy Bazaar police station. A FIR was lodged," said an official from the district food safety department.
 
 Artificial ripening of fruits, especially bananas, papayas and mangoes, has been gaining ground in the recent past. It is difficult to distinguish naturally ripe fruits and the artificial variety, but officials identify the adulterated ones by the excessive yellowish colouring of the fruit.
 
 "Last year also we conducted similar raids. This is a continuous practice that sections of the fruit sellers in the city resort to. We keep on imposing fines and penalties but after a while they again resort to this practice. There is a nexus between the fruit sellers," added the official.
 
 Experts say calcium carbide poses severe health risks to the human body. CaC2 contains poisonous chemical components like arsenic and phosphorous. Many countries around the world have already banned or imposed stringent actions against those using it for ripening essential food items.
 
 "The main problem with CaC2 is that it is used to generate a gas called ethylene. Ethylene, when used in small amounts, can help to swiftly ripen fruits. When someone consumes fruits ripened with ethylene gas, it can lead to stomach upset and in the long-term prolonged health ailments," said an expert.
 
 
