PUNE: The Kothrud police on Saturday nabbed a 20-year-old vehicle thief on police record who had been on the run for the last six months.

 A desire to ride all kinds of high-speed bikes led Mayur Satish Bharekar of Kishikindhanagar in Kothrud to steal two-wheelers. While on joy rides he also used to help a gang rob pedestrians of their cellphones.
 
 Though the Kothrud police had busted the gang last year, they were on the look out for Bharekar. Bharekar was picked up from Kothrud following a tip-off received by sub-inspector Vikram Rajput. The police recovered seven motorcycles, worth Rs 3.5 lakh, from him. “Most of the vehicles are high-speed motorbikes,” said  , senior inspector of the Kothrud police station.
 
 Bharekar had stolen the bikes from Kothrud, Sahakarnagar and other areas of the city. “We have traced the owners of five motorcycles,” Rajput added.
 
 One of the motorcycles was stolen even before it could be registered with the RTO. “We have informed all police stations about it,” another official said.
 
 In August last year, the Kothrud police had arrested Abhijit Shinde (19), Vishal Phatak (21) and detained their two minor accomplices in connection with cellphone robberies. As many as 16 cellphones were recovered from them. The suspects had told the police that Bharekar was the mastermind behind the cellphone robberies. While Bharekar used to ride the bike, others would snatch the cellphones from pedestrians.
 
 Investigations have revealed that Bharekar used to go only for high-end bikes and sometimes scooters of a particular make. He used to modify the stolen vehicles before fixing a fake number plate. “After using the vehicles for a couple of days, he would abandon the bikes and steal new ones,” Rajput said.
 
 In February last year, the Hinjewadi police had recovered eight stolen bikes from Bharekar. Within a month of release from the jail, Bharekar was on the stealing spree again. The Chaturshrungi police had arrested him again in April and recovered four motorcycles from him.
 
 Rajput said they were expecting to recover more vehicles from Bharekar.
 
