PUNE: Party has given you posts and positions and now it is your time to give back to the party. This is the message chief minister   has sent out to city BJP leaders ahead of the civic polls.

 Fadnavis, who was in the city to campaign for party candidates, held a   and MLAs and expressed his unhappiness over the infighting within the city unit of the party. “The chief minister has asked the MLAs to get maximum corporators elected from their localities so that the party can get single-handed majority in the  ,” sources told TOI.
 
 Also, the chief minister expressed concerns over predictions that the party was losing steam due to the candidature mess. One of the party leaders said Fadnavis has asked the city BJP leaders, including guardian minister Girish Bapat, to meet and convince unhappy leaders to join the ongoing campaign. Interestingly, senior party leaders and RSS veterans had kept away from CM’s public meetings on Monday, which Fadnavis took cognizance of. 
 
 “The BJP is ruling in the state as well as in the Centre. The city elected eight MLAs and an MP with a thumping majority, without any opposition MLA. What could be more favourable condition than this to win the upcoming elections, this was the question Fadnavis raised,” a senior BJP leader said.
 
 Following, CM’s directives, the city MLAs have become active in their constituencies and plans are afoot to rope in cabinet ministers for campaigning over the next few days. “The message from Fadnavis to the city party leaders is loud and clear. Hence, the party needs a solid performance in the civic polls,” the sources said.
 
 Before the civic elections were announced, Fadnavis had held a meeting with the party MLAs where he had told them to not get complacent with the party’s performances in the Lok Sabha and assembly polls. “The state is going to face vital local body elections. The results of these polls will be directly linked with the state government’s performance. Every party worker has to go back to the grassroots and start working,” he had told the BJP leaders then. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Seats contested – 83
 
 Won – 26 
 
 Success rate- 31.32%
 
 2014 Lok Sabha polls
 
 BJP’s Anil Shirole defeated Vishwajeet Kadam of Congress by an all-time high margin of 3.15 lakh votes
 
 2014 assembly elections
 
 In its best ever performance, the BJP won all eight seats in the city
 
 All candidates registered victory with convincing margin.
 
