HYDERABAD: Armed with BTech degrees but no jobs, a rising number of engineering graduates from the city are taking to an alternate profession: Conning. There is also  ,  ,  ,  ,  , apart from other petty thefts.

 Turns out, an abysmally low 20% (or lesser) of students graduating from city engineering colleges every year land a job. Those who do, often sign up for salaries not exceeding Rs 15, 000 per month. Just a handful, estimates suggest, cross the Rs 40,000 mark.
 
 “There is a visible imbalance in number of students graduating every year and the number of jobs available in the market,“ said Mahesh Bhagwat, police commissioner of Rachakonda, saying that this was causing problems with many taking to crime.
 
 Other senior policemen agree that widespread unemployment has driven engineering graduates towards a life of crime, either to meet financial commitments or support their extravagant lifestyles. Roughly 10-15% of all offenders, some indicate, hold a BTech degree ­ most often from an obscure institution.
 
 On February 2 this year, one such case left the police forces and students' community rattled. Six 21-year-old engineering students were caught running a racket in and around brothels in the city. KPHB police inspector, Ch Kushalkar, explained their modus operandi, “They post ed messages on social networking platforms informing potential clients about the availability of call girls. Then, two from the group would call the client and meet at a city mall. They would then take the person to a brothel, while the rest of the gang members, posing as policemen, raided the brothel. This way , they robbed both the customers, pimps and call girls. They looted cell phones, valuables and ATM cards from each of them.“
 
 The six friends who took to this `job' to fund their nightouts and expensive wish list are now languishing in jail.Their future, investigating officers say, looks bleak.
 
 The lure of easy money , coupled with the fear of joblessness, has led to a spurt in dreadful crimes committed by graduates. To add to that are factors like bad company and addiction to multiple vices like alcohol and ganja.
 
 “Accessibility to vices like alcohol and marijuana has increased in the past few years. This, in turn, has pushed more students and young graduates towards heinous crimes as their pocket money isn't enough to support their indulgences,“ said K Narsing Rao, inspector of police, LB Nagar.
 
 And this is true not just of the urban class but also of students from rural pockets who come to Hyderabad aspiring to return with an IT job, but instead find themselves behind bars. While at times it is the pressure of clearing bills and loans, in many cases it is also the taste of good life that ultimate sends them crashing.“Several students from districts and rural areas who come to study often get influenced by their seniors and roommates who encourage them to indulge in criminal activities to earn a rich lifestyle,“ said Ramakrishna Reddy, teacher at Chaitanya Bharathi Institute of Technology .He insisted on colleges conducting regular counselling sessions to keep students away from such distractions.
 
