AURANGABAD:   have launched a   against the use of  , less than  , it seems that they are failing to control the menace. Hawkers, retailers, grocery shop owners as well as consumers seem to prefer the material.

 Vikram Mandurke, assistant municipal commissioner, said the civic body will soon make the city free of the banned material. “We have already started campaigns across various parts of the city. Ward officers are conducting raids in their respective area and seizing the bags. We also plan on imposing penalty on the sellers,” he said.
 
 The campaigns will continue till June 5. The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has launched the drive as a part of their pre-monsoon measures, which also includes removing silt from nullah beds.
 
 “During the recent visits of mayor Bapu Ghadamode and deputy mayor Smita Ghogre to some of these nullahs, they raised objections over the heaps of plastic bags in the nullah passage. Civic authorities have initiated the drive after a long gap,” an AMC official said. 
 
 The AMC banned plastic carry bags below 50 micron thickness since February 2016. Saturday’s raids are being conducted on retailers and hawkers after a six-month gap. Acting on a tip-off, senior officers from the civic body’s solid waste management department also raided some plastic bags sellers and seized the bags.
 
 In the meantime, a ward officer said that because of the recent drives, many shop owners have started using cloth or jute bags. “Some of them have also switched over to thick plastic bags that are allowed,” he said.
 
 The officer, however, stressed that awareness should be created among the masses about the negative impact of plastic bags on the environment.
 
 Javed Qureshi, a resident of Naregaon, said that the civic authorites need to conduct such drives regularly if they want to rid the city of plastic carry bags. “Such campaigns should be regularly held against   and violators should be penalised. Apart from this, the civic body should also run a campaign to educate the public and inform them about the ill effects of plastic bags. But unfortunately, the civic authorities are not doing so, which is why we are seeing plastic bags being used everywhere.” 
 
