CHANDIGARH: The   and high court is apparently mulling handing over the investigation into the cases registered for violence during the   stir for reservation in February 2016, to a special investigation team (SIT). The high court on Thursday asked the government to suggest the names of senior cops who could be appointed as members of the SIT.

 Division bench headed by Justice S S Saron also observed that once appointed as members of SIT, the officers shall act independently of the state government. Justice Saron also recorded the submissions made by senior advocate Anupam Gupta, who is assisting the HC as amicus curiae in the case, for appointment of former UP DGP Prakash Singh as head of the SIT.
 
 The directions regarding the constitution of SIT came from the bench after observing that the Police have concluded that majority of cases registered following the violence in various districts are of non-serious nature.
 
 HC found that the conclusions made by police were completely contrary to the findings made by the   in its report regarding such cases. Out of 1,212 criminal cases registered in   district only 30 cases have been found to be of serious nature, police have submitted in the court.
 
 Visibly upset over the investigations, Justice Saron observed that the state police were supposed to conduct effective probe but unfortunately it had diluted complete investigation. "Police would be dumped, if it failed to do anything in these cases. You continue with the investigation and we will order supervision of your investigation by officers of some other place. police has disregarded itself in these cases", observed Justice Saron.
 
 HC expressed surprised when it was told that even some officers indicted in Prakash Singh committee report had already been reinstated by the state government. Referring the investigations of cases registered in Rohtak district, Gupta told the court that district was the epicenter of violence and it was really shocking that around 85 % cases have been declared of non-serious nature by police.
 
 Gupta said that investigation carried by police has reduced the Prakash Singh committee report to black hole. He argued that present DGP, K P Singh, had done excellent job as a member of Prakash Singh committee but had completely failed now. Gupta also told that court that instead of dismissing the officers indicted by Prakash Singh committee, government was reinstating them. Accusing the government of adopting double standards, Gupta said it was really surprising that state had referred the cases related to attack on finance minister's house to  , considering them of serious nature and had been concluding other cases as non-serious. The government, however, defended itself stating that they was no way to to identify the culprits involved in the violence cases. 
 
