COIMBATORE: Some villages near Annur in   ore district have seen a shocking rise of cases of   in recent times.A staggering 10% of villages in the areaare affected by he disease, according to Coimbatore-based gas roenterologist Dr V G Mohan Prasad. Conversely the district recorded only 0.2% such cases in 2016.

 Doctors who have conducted blood donation and medical camps in the area said quacks frequently reused needles helping the deadly disease spread.
 
 Hepatitis C is an RNA virus which causes widespread inflammation and necrosis of liver cells. The virus can remain dormant or many years before harming body cells. It results in jaundice, and later causes liver cirrhosis or iver cancer.
 
 Speaking on the occasion of “World Hepatitis Day“ on Friday , Dr Prasad said the virus was rampant n Annur, affecting 10% of he villages in the area.“Out of 100 villages, where we conducted free medical camps over the past three months, we found that 10 hamlets were severely af ected by chronic Hepatitis C. In some of those 10 villages as many as 10% of the vil agers were suffering from iver infection. In other vil ages 5% of the villagers wer e Hepatitis C positive,“ he said.
 
 VGM Hospitals, which conducted the blood donation camps, found that the high prevalence of the infection was due to the presence of quacks in the area.“Our blood tests showed that it was mainly the elderly population (people aged above 60) in the villages who were infected,“ Dr Prasad said. “On probing further, they all claimed to be visiting a quack in the area, who often did not use syringes from sealed covers and used the same syringe to inject medicines on different people. We suspect that they were infected for more than two decades but had no symptoms,“ he said.
 
 The prevalence of the infection was found to be generally higher in rural areas of the district. “During our camps, we tested around 8,150 people in villages and the surrounding areas of Coimbatore. We found that 0.5% of the population was infected with   and around 1% of the population with Hepatitis C,“ Mohan said.
 
 “This is much higher that the Hepatitis C prevalence in whole of Coimbatore, which stood at just 0.2%, which was arrived at after looking at 60,000 voluntary blood donations in 2016,“ he said. “In fact it has dropped by half from the prevalence of 0.4% in 2005,“ he added.
 
 
