BHOPAL: They are ranked 20 in the world. They can’t play hockey for almost 6 months in their home owing to heavy snow. They have neither a physio nor a manager. Their country has only 7   (MP alone has 9 hockey turfs), but they have a coach who is working hard with the players to make the country shine in the  .

 Meet Herman Kruise, the one-man army, in the   women’s hockey team, who is playing the role of coach, manager and physio, besides doing any other task required for the team. His 11-player team almost snatched their first ever victory against world number 12 ranking India in the second match. Though they lost the match 1-2 against India, everyone watching the match felt that visitors played better hockey against the hosts.
 
 Kruis’s effort could be gauged from the fact that the women’s team of Belarus has better ranking than its men’s team. Belarus men’s world ranking in hockey is 37. Belarus is known for ice hockey and their team is among top 10 in the world. Working with the team for past 2 years, Kruis said he wishes to see the team playing and defeating higher ranking teams. “My team is working hard. It is good to see that today they made the going tough for the team, which stands much higher in the world ranking,” he said.
 
 Belarus is on five-match Test series tour of India. All matches are being played at SAI centre, Bhopal. Calling the tour important before the World Hockey League, Kruis said, “Owing to inclement weather it was not possible to play in Belarus. Hockey India invited us and we are happy to play here.”
 
 Hailing from Netherlands, Kruis does not know the Russian, which is the main language of the country. Surprisingly, not a single girl of   knows English. Asked about the communication problem with the team while coaching them, Kruis said, “It is a problem, but the girls are quite supportive. They understand me through sign language and simple words of English. Google language helps me understand their language.”
 
 Appreciating Hockey India for supporting the Belarus team, Kruis said, “Hockey India is supporting us by providing different support staff.” India is in the same group with Belarus in the World Hockey League, which is scheduled to kick off in Vancouver, Canada, from April 1.
 
