KOCHI: Following the pressure imposed by the   which sought a report from the state government on the accidents on   in January,   (MVD) is set to install All   cameras on the bridge hoping it would bring down accidents.

 The cameras can capture the images of all vehicles passing the bridge and check whether they are speeding or not. The current speed limit on the 1,300m-long bridge is 40km/hour.
 
 The existing normal cameras installed on Kerala roads can capture images of vehicles which speed within 30m radius of the camera. The new cameras can capture the image of the vehicle and the number plate separately and it can be monitored through a centralized system. The report on the survey conducted on the bridge on Saturday will be placed before the road safety council headed by district collector. The council had recommended MVD to look into measures to be implemented on the bridge to bring down accidents. Four people were killed in an accident that occurred on the bridge in January when a school bus hit a car. Following this incident, a committee instituted by the Supreme Court had sought a report from the state, which entrusted Natpac to prepare the report. Natpac will submit its report to the public works department in a month.
 
 P D Sunil Babu, special officer and traffic safety expert of   (KRSA) said, "People should inculcate a culture to abide laws. The new motor vehicles rules of the central government will come into effect soon and hope it brings down accidents as it will impose heavy fine on offenders."
 
 Officials from MVD and Keltron took part in the survey on Saturday. "The road safety council had recommended conducting a survey on the bridge to implement remedial measures," Ernakulam RTO P H Sadiq Ali said. Keltron project manager S P Gopakumar said total 12 cameras will be installed to capture the entire vehicles playing on the bridge. "Six cameras will be installed in each lane. We have already installed three cameras in a single system at a new bypass at Pappanamcode in Thiruvananthapuram. The state is planning to install the cameras across Kerala," Gopakumar said.
 
 Centre has made it mandatory that all vehicles should have GPS, speed governor by 2018 and the apex court has allowed us to implement high quality number plates in vehicles. All these will be implemented in a centralized server. We will soon finalize on the technology to cover all the vehicles," said K R Jyothilal, state transport secretary.
 
