BENGALURU: British exit from the   or  , as it is popularly known, will have no impact on students aspiring to pursue higher education there, said  , director, British Council South India. Over five lakh international students are pursuing higher education in the UK at present.

 Speaking to TOI on the issue of employability in the UK post studies, Barker said, “Last year, 6,000 students were transferred from study visa to post-study work visa. Also, 28,000 companies in the UK have been licensed to sponsor students. There are many ways through which students can remain in the UK. As with everything else, there is competition. But we are confident that if an Indian student comes to the UK, he/she is the brightest of the lot.”
 
 The British Council on Thursday flagged off the GREAT Scholarships for Indian students, continuing its trend of investing in Indian talent pool. The council has introduced the scholarships as part of the GREAT Britain campaign and will organize Study, UK: Discover You, an exhibition on Friday between 2pm and 7pm at Vivanta by Taj (MG Road) for those who wish to know more about educational opportunities in the UK.
 
 “We want to offer students the opportunity of world-class UK education. Cost is an issue in many countries, and by offering scholarships, we hope to enable more students to avail of these opportunities.”
 
 As part of the campaign, 198 scholarship – 29 for undergraduate programmes and 169 for post-graduate programmes -- will be provided for the September 2017 batch. The campaign will award 198 scholarships worth £1 million each for subjects ranging from art and design to engineering, law and management across 40 UK varsities.
 
 Students can directly apply to universities or seek guidance through the council. Over the last 10 years, 1,60,000 Indian students studied in the UK. Apart from the GREAT scholarships, the council also provides the Chevening global scholarship programme, a British government initiative. The Indian programme of the scholarship is now the world’s largest, with a budget of £2.6 million for 2016-17, and 130 scholarships on offer. 
 
 Barker also added that there are opportunities aplenty for students coming back to India after studying in the UK. “We hope that students who go to the UK for higher education come back to India with an international outlook.”
 
 “According to a recent report, the starting salary of students returning to India as freshers was about 13,000 Pounds (around Rs 11 lakh), compared to 4,000 Pounds (3.3 lakh) for non-UK graduates. India is definitely an exciting place to work in as well,” she added.
 
