LUCKNOW: At 11, Sonu Singh (from Budaun) took singlehandedly the responsibility to develop his village. He managed on his own to improve   and gives tuitions to every age group. He has pledged to   in his village.

 A street community leader, Neeraj, comes from an abusive family and had been through the worst atrocities for seven years but that did not deter him from coming out brave. Today, he works with 20 different centers with more than 1,400 underprivileged children every week.
 
 The two role models along with nine others were felicitated at ‘Baal Samman’, a platform created by a social organisation here on Wednesday. The awardees overcame several odds to carve a niche for themselves. Deputy chief minister   graced the programme that aimed to inspiring people from different walks of life. Addressing the occasion, Sharma said, “Every child on this stage is an inspiration and everyone must encourage and nurture them.”
 
 Lucknow: At 11, Sonu Singh (Budaun) took singlehandedly the responsibility to develop his village. He managed on his own to improve attendance of students in his school and gives tuitions to every age group. He has pledged to educate every kid in his village.
 
 Atreet community leader Neeraj comes from an abusive family and had been through the worst atrocities for seven years but that did not deter him from coming out brave. Today, he works with 20 different centers with more than 1,400 underprivileged children every week and has also addressed at TedX Dharavi, Mumbai.
 
 The two role models along with many others were felicitated at ‘Baal Samaan’, a platform created by social organisation here on Wednesday. Deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma graced the programme that aimed to inspiring people from different walks of life. 
 
 Addressing the occasion, Sharma said, “Every child on this stage is an inspiration and everyone must encourage and nurture them.”
 
 Some of the kids spoke their heart out on the occasion. “I plead with my hands folded to all of you to educate girls and not just marry them off like I was forced to,” appealed Yasmeen Bano from Sitapur, 15. Her parents made her leave school and get married, in spite of her phenomenal records. But she didn’t give up and enrolled herself to a school and even joined an NGO where she helps out creative young minds facing similar challenges.
 
 
