BHOPAL: Barely three percent of patients in need of   are being served. The care for the terminally ill and counselling of the their families is considered a new frontier in medical care that ensures that the patient is free of pain and symptoms, said experts at a CME on ‘End of Life Care - Ethical Issues’ in Bhopal on Sunday.

 Palliative care should ensure that the patient is free from pain and symptom, with full control of what is happening, with the necessary emotional and spiritual support, at a place of one’s choice and is also able to leave when the time has come, without pointless prolonging of life, said Dr  , onco-surgeon of Lake City hospital. 
 
 Going by estimates only, three percent of the patients across the country get palliative care and nearly all the patients receiving palliative care are in Kerala and other states in the south. 
 
 “Doctors need to be realistic and offer an option of palliative care to the patient and his family. Initially, the focus in palliative care is on pain and symptom control. It includes paying attention to emotional, psychological, spiritual and existential concerns,” said Dr Jeremy Johnson, emeritus consultant in   and director of education and research at Karunashraya in Bangalore. Under palliative care, the patient should also feel at home. Some hospitals in Bhopal are in a small way ensuring to provide palliative care support at home and health care centre. 
 
 “Patients are vulnerable. Hence what you do for the families stays with them forever. Palliative care is growing in India and the concepts and developments here are actually great,” he added.
 
 Experts also deliberated on a fundamental question over why some sick patients, with no real hope of recovery who reach the hospital are admitted straight into an ICU. Often, it is because good, humane clinical decision making is hijacked by the fear of litigation. 
 
 This has led to patients receiving futile interventions like ventilation and other invasive treatment, totally removed from loved ones, in the impersonal environment of an ICU. More than just the resulting financial burden, it lowers abysmally, the dignity of a human being.
 
 
