PANAJI: On Saturday, when ballot boxes are opened after almost a month, Goa’s famous tryst with fractured mandate may be a possibility with no party getting a simple majority to form the government on its own. All exit polls have predicted   emerging as the single largest party, but with no pre-poll alliances in place, it may have to scout for partners to stake claim for government formation.

 This would be in stark contrast to the 2012 polls, where BJP had emerged a clear winner with 21 seats and   tally plunging to single digit—nine. BJP had gone to 2012 polls entering into a pre-poll alliance with the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP), and thus, the BJP-led alliance government ensured stability through the term with support extended by at least two independents.
 
 This time around, the factors that gave BJP a simple majority in last assembly polls—“corrupt” Congress regime, Manohar Parrikar as the best option to provide good governance and a vote for development—are missing from the script. In addition, the entry of AAP and anti-incumbency have turned out to be irritants for BJP.
 
 Somewhere, BJP’s nervousness that Congress may nudge it in what could turn out to be a neck-and-neck race between the two major players is also visible, as BJP headquarters do not have any mega celebration plans.
 
 In the February 4 elections, the alliance partners parted ways before the polls, with MGP aligning with Goa Suraksha Manch (GSM) headed by RSS rebel Subhash Velingker and Shiv Sena, thereby posing a serious challenge to its former ally.
 
 The entry of AAP in Goa’s political landscape meant that the BJP had to open a new front in the battlefield. Notwithstanding exit polls predicting a tally ranging from two to seven seats for AAP, political pundits say that by most liberal estimates, the Kejriwal-party is unlikely to bag more than one-two seats in constituencies witnessing close contests.
 
 With most exit polls predicting a tally of 15-22 seats for BJP, political observers concur with the view that 17-18 could be a more realistic count for the saffron party. If that happens, that would leave BJP three-four seats short of a simple majority. In such a scenario, political sources say, BJP would reach out to independents—four or five independent candidates are likely to emerge triumphant—to help it reach the magical figure of 21. Avertano Furtado from Navelim, Govind Gaude from Priol, Rudolf Fernandes from Santa Cruz, Ramesh Tawadkar from Canacona, Benjamin Silva from Velim, Caetano Silva from Benaulim, Prasad Gaonkar from Sanguem, Joaquim Alemao from Cuncolim, could be among the victorious ones whom BJP may turn to in its bid to cobble up a majority. BJP brass, according to party sources, is already in touch with a few of them.
 
 The party is relying heavily on defence minister Manohar Parrikar, who is known to be deft in such manoeuvers, to enable BJP to form the government. As hinted by BJP leadership in the run up the polls on at least a couple of occasions, Parrikar’s return to the helm of Goa’s politics to steer the state if BJP comes to power, cannot be ruled out.
 
 On the other hand, if Congress trails closely, the “more enterprising” of the independents are likely to side with the highest bidder to form the next government.
 
 BJP will not be averse to seeking support from MGP if it is unable to get sufficient independents on its side. However, that wouldn’t be without giving in to the “preposterous” demands of the regional outfit, sources feel. MGP, which has already declared Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar as the chief ministerial candidate, may extend support to either of the national parties, provided Dhavalikar is made the chief minister.
 
 For Congress, the exit polls have thrown up projections ranging widely from 9 to 18 seats, but political pundits feel the party will surely do better than 2012 polls.
 
 According to political observers, if it manages to gain 15 seats of its own, the oldest national party could manoeuvre its way to reach within striking distance of forming a government. Wins by Goa Forward Party (GFP) of Fatorda MLA Vijai Sardesai in a couple of constituencies, coupled by support of a few independents and MGP may well lead to Congress-led government formation in the state. This might not be easy as the party that governs the Centre has an advantage in government formation. 
 
