KOLAR: Two months ago, tomatoes were selling at retail outlets for Rs 20 a kilo or even less. Today, thanks to less production and more demand, the average rate is Rs 80 a kilo and even an unprecedented Rs 100 isn't unheard of.

 “While there are tomato varieties of lower quality which cost around Rs 80 in the local markets, the best ones are being sold even at Rs 110 per kg,“ says S Siraj Ahmed, a vegetable merchant in Russell Market.
 
 The reasons for the spike in prices are not hard to find at the Agricultural Produce and Marketing Committee (APMC) premises at Kolar headquarters, Asia's second largest tomato market. Traders and APMC officials at the yard and farmers in the surrounding villages agree that a combination of a dip in tomato production this season and a sudden rise in the demand for   from other states has led to rocketing prices.
 
 Kolar APMC secretary T S Ravi Kumar said tomato production in the region had gradually gone down in the past few months due to various reasons -less rain, low pricing and increased temperatures which decreases the yield. “The supply we receive at APMC during this season has gone down by 50% compared to last year.The demand for stocks has also gone up from some of the north Indian states where the production has come to a standstill due to flooding and other reasons. As the stocks have become limited, the price of tomatoes has gone up,“ he said. “The price is likely to remain the same or go up till local production in other states picks up,“ said Toheed Pasha, a trader.
 
 Located around 70km from Bengaluru, Kolar headquarters is next only to the tomato market in Maharashtra's  . Apart from Bengaluru, which receives a good chunk of tomatoes from here, the stocks are sold regularly to parts of Maharashtra,  , West Bengal,   and some north Indian states as well. Traders also take tomato loads from here and supply to Bangladesh and Pakistan, among other countries.A tomato hotspot Srikanth C R from CMR Mandi at the Kolar APMC said the best of tomatoes land here from various taluks in Kolar and from districts like Chikkaballapura, Bengaluru Rural, Mandya, Tumakuru and Chitradurga. “By good quality, we mean uniform size, required hardness, shine and original red colour. This is why traders from across the country prefer tomatoes from here. Farmers from Ananthpur and Chittoor districts of AP come here to sell tomatoes as they can get a good number of traders,“ he said.
 
