PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The  , in an effort to take action against over 66,000  , has invited bids from private agencies for cranes, excavators, trucks and manpower.

 The illegal constructions are spread over all six zones of the twin township.
 
 Civic officials say action will carried out over 12 months. The municipal corporation said it wants to demolish multi-storied buildings and has sought machines, high-reach cruisers, excavators, cranes and electrical gas cutting machines. 
 
 The private agencies have till January 25 to submit tenders. Interestingly, the bids have been invited just before the municipal elections.   has, in the past two years, deferred the proposals of procurement of machinery and equipment for demolition of illegal constructions. 
 
 The Bombay high court, which is hearing a PIL filed by a Chinchwad-based resident, has been issuing a number of directions to PCMC regarding these demolitions. The court had asked PCMC in May 2014 to form a separate department to take action against illegal constructions. PCMC was asked to approve a proposal at its next general body meeting and send it to the government. However, PCMC did not approve the proposal, following which the court asked the government that special powers could be evoked for dissolution of PCMC. The court then gave another opportunity to PCMC to approve the proposal at its next general body meeting in August 2014. PCMC then complied with the orders.
 
 The high court, in February 2015, directed PCMC to undertake a special drive against illegal constructions in April. “It is necessary to send a strong signal to those who are indulging in illegal constructions,” the court had said, adding that the municipal administration was dealing with an extraordinary situation with such a large number of illegal structures. Lack of proper machinery, along with resistance from various quarters, has made the task more complicated. 
 
 Meanwhile, PCMC on its official website (pcmcindia.gov.in) continues to show that 830 illegal constructions of the 66,000-odd constructions have been demolished from April 2012 till January 7, 2017. In November too, it had shown that 830 constructions were demolished. 
 
 Senior civic officials of the building control and regulations department say that the figure needs to be updated, as the number of illegal constructions razed is higher.
 
 
