It was a night of glamour and high fashion at the 89
  Academy Awards, with Hollywood’s biggest and brightest stars in attendance. With more than 50 shades of red, green and grey on the red carpet, the Oscar night was a fashion gala to reckon with. 

 
 
  Priyanka Chopra exhibited powerful fashion in her futuristic body hugging Ralph & Russo number. She was sexy, elegant and boisterous at the same time. 
 
  Emma stone, winner of the Best Actress award for ‘La La Land’ oozed sheer allure in Givenchy gown, that she teamed with Tiffany jewellery.
 
  Viola Davis who picked the Best Actress in a Supporting role Oscar for her performance in ‘Fences’ was a vision in red. She wore an Armani Privé off-the-shoulder gown.
 
  Talking of Ryan Gosling, the ‘La La Land’ actor pulled off a ruffled white tuxedo shirt. Gosling kept it interesting and classic in his Gucci designer suit. 
 
  Naomie Harris, the Best Actress in a Supporting role nominee for her performance in ‘Moonlight’ was the first to hit the red carpet. She looked super glam in a Calvin Klein white number. Fashion critics are hailing Naomie’s look calling it the most fashion-forward of the night. She kept her footwear game strong in embellished mismatched yellow pumps.
 
  Looks like Jessica Biel took a cue from the golden statue of the Academy Awards itself. The actress glittered in a golden ensemble as she walked down the red carpet, hand-in-hand with husband Justin Timberlake.
 
  
  
 
  Multiple Oscar winner Meryl Streep arrived wearing an Elie Saab creation. She was a vision in a blue embellished gown and sent the shutterbugs in a click-happy zone. 
 
  Brie Larson was the sexy lady in black, she stuck to a velvet strapless dress by Oscar de la Renta, with a deep sweetheart neckline
 
  The ’50 Shades of Grey’ actress Dakota Johnson looked super lean in 
 ’s high-necked, long-sleeved dress with a dramatic cascading bow accent at the waist. 
 
  Nicole Kidman was a head turner as always sporting a nude gown by Armani Privé. The deep red lips added to her dramatic look. Her ‘Lion’ co-star Dev Patel stood out in a crisp black and white look. 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
