JAIPUR: Intensifying battle against anaemia, health authorities are now ensuring that private schools should administer   to their students.

 A meeting with school authorities was held with the health authorities recently to discuss deworming exercise in private schools.
 
 “There is a survey conducted in the state showing that 21% of children have worms in stomach. Worms are one of the major causes of anaemia among children. With deworming, we are fighting against anaemia directly,” state nodal officer adolescent health Dr   said.
 
 Dr Singh said that this year they are targeting to deworm 2.17 crore children in the state. It is expected that 83.37 lakh government school children and 80.37 lakh children studying in private schools will be benefited from deworming.
 
 During 2016, mass deworming was conducted throughout the country as a fixed day strategy to reduce the harm caused by soil-transmitted helminths (STH) on millions of children in India in a cost effective, simple and safe manner.
 
 As per the communication received from the Centre, the next round will be implemented on February 10, 2017 followed by Mop-up Day on February 15, 2017 in the state. 
 
 The state implemented National Deworming Day (NDD) 2016 on February 10 followed by Mop-up Day on February 15 in all 249 blocks (blocks of department of health) across 33 districts with technical assistance of Evidence Action and  . 
 
 In 2016 round, along with government schools and anganwadi centres, new groups like private schools, Maa-Badi centre, Madarsa, Kendriya Vidyalaya and   were also added. ASHAs were engaged for mobilization of unregistered (out-of-anganwadi) and out-of-school children of age 1–19 years, the officials said.
 
 To address the issue of worm infestation, the anganwadi and school-based mass deworming programme is being implemented since 2012. Since February 2015, as per the guidelines issued from the Union ministry of health and family welfare, the state has implemented the same under the aegis of the NDD targeting children of 1–19 years in all the districts with joint efforts of health department, education and women and child development with technical support from UNICEF and Evidence Action.
 
 Officials said, school and anganwadi-based deworming is cost-effective, achieves high coverage of children and is very safe. Using the existing school and anganwadi infrastructure, teachers and anganwadi workers are trained to administer deworming tablets with oversight from the health system.
 
