MYSURU: Data available with the   revealed that the department officials prevented as many as 289 cases of   from 2015 till date – 70 instances being prevented between April and December 2016 — in Mysuru. The rampancy of the practice of child marriage across the district has seen the district administration initiate a new programme to root out the social evil.

 In a bid to prevent more cases of child marriage, a   ‘Mysuru child protection’ has been created to enable officials of different departments to communicate and coordinate with one another. Officers have been instructed to upload any evidence pertaining to child marriage on the group. The initiative was launched by Mysuru deputy commissioner  , and deputy director of women and child welfare department K Radha.
 
 The women and child welfare department enlisted the services of the police force, NGOs and officials of the revenue department, besides other centres to prevent cases of child marriage. One of the main objectives of the WhatsApp group is to ensure speedy response to prevent more cases of child marriage throughout the district. 
 
 KR Nagar taluk has been identified as one region where the practice of child marriage is particularly rampant. Officials observed that majority of the victims of child marriage cases were girls aged 16 to 17. While a few communities indulged in this practice to follow outdated customs and traditions, fear of their daughters being involved in love affairs forced a few families to rush them to early marriage.
 
 “In most cases, we dissuade the parents from going ahead with the marriage. We inform them about the laws that are in place to prevent child marriage, and the punishment meted out to those who violate it,” said Radha.
 
 She added that the girls who were rescued from early marriages were enrolled in skill development programmes, to help them lead independent lives.
 
 “The involvement of the district administration, and the creation of the WhatsApp group will help put an end to the practice in Mysuru,” Radha said.
 
