Mumbai: The state’s provisional   list for   aspirants has been challenged by several candidates whose low ranks have dashed their hopes of making it to state-run medical colleges.

 There are allegations that since the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) is not verifying certificates and documents before releasing the list, candidates from outside Maharashtra may have dislodged resident students from the higher ranks. To join a state government medical college, a candidate must have a Maharashtra domicile.
 
 A parent of one of the disappointed students said a growing disparity could be seen if the state ranks and all-India NEET ranks were co-related over the years. That is, candidates at a middling position on the all-India NEET   have slid in their corresponding rankings on the state list as compared to how their predecessors fared in 2013.
 
 For example, the candidate ranked 57,277 on the All-India list in 2013 was 2,535 on the state list. But this year, the same NEET rank has a corresponding state rank of 4,447. Such inconsistencies in performance, as they describe it, are visible all over the latest list.
 
 However, DMER refuted what the parents suspect. “While we will check all the documents, scores and ranks have little correlation across various years’ examinations,” said Dr Praveen Shingare, head, DMER. He surmised that out of 50,000 candidates, only about 30 may not have the required certificates.
 
 Incidentally, the Aurangabad bench of Bombay high court has ruled that students who did not take their Class X exam from the state but took the Class XII exam and have a domicile certificate would be considered as state students.
 
 Parents of domiciled students are alleging that it would not be difficult to procure fake certificates to avail of such concessions. “We suspect that the provisional merit list will change a lot after the document verification process,” said Rajesh Jain, member of Parents Association of Medical Students, Maharashtra.
 
 He said this would create problems even for those students who stand a chance of making it to a government-run medical college. “Students should have a clarity on where they stand before they are expected to fill up the preference form for their choice of colleges,” said Jain.
 
