LUDHIANA: Two days after a traffic cop was suspended when finance minister   caught him taking a bribe near  , police on Friday night registered a case against head   under the Prevention of Corruption Act.

 The finance minister, who was on his way to Chandigarh after paying homage to  , Sukhdev and Rajguru at Hussainiwala, had captured a video of the head constable while allegedly taking a bribe from a driver near Garthali bridge on Thursday evening. He had then informed the Ludhiana police commissioner who had passed on the message to SSP Khanna Raj Jeet Singh who had suspended two cops including Jagjit Singh.
 
 Giving details about the case, station house officer (SHO) Doraha police station said the head constable has been booked under Sections 7, 13/2 of Prevention of Corruption Act. He added that it took them time to register an FIR into the matter as they were tracing the number of the driver of canter bearing registration number PB11BF-0815 which belonged to a person from Rajpura.
 
 “After getting the number of the vehicle from a CCTV installed at Garthali bridge, we contacted the owner of the vehicle and from him we got the name of driver. On the statement of driver Iqbal Muhammad of Gujjarwara in Saharanpur in UP, we registered a case against the head constable,” said the SHO.
 
 He added that they would arrest Jagjit Singh. They had looked for him at police lines where he was supposed to join after his suspension, but he did not do so.
 
 Police officials said they would dole out the address of the accused and would look for him at his house. They added that as per the complainant, the accused had taken Rs 200 from him as a bribe as an entry fee before being caught by the minister on a camera.
 
 The minister had said that there were some barricades near the bridge and traffic flow was slow. He added that there, he noticed one traffic cop accepting a bribe from a man and recorded the sequence.
 
 “When I questioned him, he apologized. However, I sent the video to the Ludhiana police commissioner to take action against him,” the finance minister had said.
 
