VISAKHAPATNAM: With focus on decongesting cargo traffic on roads and railways, the   (IWAI) is in the final stages of setting up a special purpose vehicle (SPV) with the   government for development of National Waterway-4 from Kakinada to Puducherry across a length of 1,080 kms. IWAI has set a target of December 2017 for the first cargo movement to take place on a stretch between Muktayala and Amaravati.

 As part of the first phase, IWAI has zeroed in on the stretch from Kakinada to Muktyala via   and has divided it into two parts including one from Muktyala to Amaravati and the second from Vijayawada to Kakinada.
 
 Speaking to TOI on the sidelines of the East Coast Maritime Business Summit in the city on Thursday, IWAI chairman Amitabh Verma said, “For the development of waterways in AP, the AP government has agreed to set up an SPV with 49% share of AP and 51% of IWAI on behalf of the central government. The SPV is in the final stage of being approved by the Centre and state. But, in the meantime, we have already divided the work into three phases.”
 
 He said, “The first phase will be from Kakinada to Muktyala on the Krishna river via Vijayawada. The second phase will be from Vijayawada to Pedaganjam and the third phase is from Pedaganjam to Ennore. For phase one, we are more or less ready and divided it into two parts. Part one is from Muktayala to Amaravati, where the capital is coming up. There, we have already tendered out the dredging work and the contractor has been shortlisted. We would be awarding work shortly and seven terminals will be constructed. Four terminals will be for roll on roll off (RoRo) services, whereas three terminals will be for regular cargo movement. The actual dredging work will start by March end and building material will be moving from Muktyala to Amaravati definitely by December 2017. This portion would cost around Rs 98 crore whereas the whole portion from Vijayawada to Kakinada will be around Rs 4,000 crore including land acquisition costs.” He observed that the major cargo on the Muktyala to Amaravati route will be mostly cargo and cement.
 
 Furthermore, he said as AP government is going to be a stakeholder in the project, it will have to put in a small amount of cash as majority of its contribution would be the cost of government land for the project.
 
 Pointing out that initially IWAI is looking for a depth of around two metres for movement of vessels, he said, “Once it matures, we’ll look at around 2.5 metres. We expect year round viability and have spoken to   and Kakinada ports. Availability of cargo is there.” However, he said phase 2 and phase 3 of the project will be challenging as it runs on the coast and IWAI would be competing with coastal movement of cargo, which would be cheaper.
 
 Elaborating on the funding for national waterway projects, he said, “We are looking at five ways of funding including enhanced budgetary support from the government, extra budgetary resources like borrowing from the market, multilateral funding, 5% of cess from the central road fund and joint venture with ports, state government and greater private partnership.”
 
