Mumbai: The National Company Law Tribunal ( ) on Tuesday adjourned till February 13 the hearing of a petition filed against  ,   and other directors for mismanagement and oppression of minority rights. It also issued a stern warning that the petition will be dismissed if the petitioners — Cyrus Mistry’s family-held firms — do not argue it that day. The tribunal made it clear that there is no stay on the February 6 extraordinary general meeting (EGM) to be held for Mistry’s removal as a director of Tata Sons.

 C A Sundaram, counsel for the two Mistry firms Cyrus Investment and Sterling Investment Corporation, sought a two-week adjournment as he wished to appeal against the lack of stay on the Tata Sons EGM. The firms will now take the battle to the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal for relief against the forthcoming meeting. The Tata Sons board had removed Mistry as its chairman last October in a sudden move that stunned the corporate world and resulted in a long-drawn boardroom battle. 
 
 The tribunal had earlier in the day directed Sundaram to argue the main petition filed last December. One of the pleas in it was to restrain any action to remove Mistry as director of Tata Sons. The tribunal said on Tuesday, “Seeking a fresh adjournment is a clear refusal by Mistry companies to argue the main matter.” In a strong observation, the NCLT bench of judicial members Prakash Kumar and V Nallasenapathy said, “We believe that it is nothing but disobedience of order passed by this court. We restrain ourselves from proceeding further.”
 
 The NCLT held as “unmeritorious” arguments by Sundaram and counsel for Mistry, Janak Dwarkadas, that the issue of a stay on the forthcoming EGM was not dealt with earlier. It also said it was “perplexed” at the stand taken in the “refusal to argue the matter”.
 
 Tata Sons counsel Abhiskek Manu Singhvi called Mistry lawyers’ arguments “unprecedented stonewalling”.
 
 On December 22 last year, the tribunal had granted no such stay and posted the matter for hearing on merit and for preliminary issues of maintainability on January 31. But after Tata Sons, issued a notice on January 3 to hold an EGM meeting on February 6 for Mistry’s removal as director, Cyrus Investment moved a contempt petition and also sought to restrain Tata Sons from holding the meeting. But the NCLT on January 28 dismissed the contempt petition and asked both sides to file affidavits on the EGM issue, saying the matter would be heard on January 31-February 1 as directed earlier. 
 
 On Tuesday, when the matter came up, it led to much courtroom drama as Sundaram first sought orders on its interim plea against the EGM and then on its waiver plea first before arguing on merits. Dwarkadas said that “heavens won’t fall” if time or an injunction is granted as there was an urgency. 
 
 The waiver sought was for a condition that only minority shareholders with 10% equity can move the NCLT for such relief and while the Mistry firms said they were eligible with 18% shareholding, Tata Sons had said they were not, with a mere 2.17% of preference shares issued and equity shareholding.
 
 “The petitioner is supposed to argue on main plea and affidavits. But we regret to say that despite repeated requests, petitioners’ counsel has failed to argue on main plea and asked for an order of waiver to be passed,” said the tribunal. “Maintainability point can be raised at any point,” said the bench, adding that four judgments cited by Sundaram on the issue cannot be relied on since they did not concern company law.
 
 
