NEW DELHI: A controversy has erupted again over the appointment of a new vice chancellor for   (AMU).

 Within a day of three names being shortlisted, allegations are being made that AMU had violated the Union Human Resource Development (HRD) ministry’s directive issued last year that UGC Regulations, 2010, should not be violated while shortlisting names for the post of vice-chancellor.
 
 AMU’s court had finalised the three names out of five sent by its executive council on Saturday. The three shortlisted for the post of VC are Tariq Mansoor, principal,  , AMU; Abu Saleh Sharif, executive director and chief scholar, US-India Policy Institute, Washington, and Shahid Jameel, CEO, Welcome Trust and DBT India Alliance.
 
 Mansoor was also in the earlier panel of names shortlisted for the VC’s post. However, the entire panel had got scrapped. Sharif had played a crucial role in the writing of the landmark   report on the state of Muslims. He was also head of the National Council for Applied Economic Research.
 
 However, even before the shortlisted names were sent to the President for the final selection, a section within AMU has started raising questions. They pointed to HRD ministry’s directive of May last year in which it was clearly mentioned that UGC Regulations, 2010, had to be followed while finalising the panel for a VC’s post so that no complication and delay may happen while submitting the panel to the visitor (President) for appointment of a new VC.
 
 UGC Regulations, 2010, stipulate that a VC should be a distinguished academician, with a minimum of 10 years experience as professor in a university system or 10 years of experience in an equivalent position in a reputed research and/or academic administrative organisation. Detractors pointed out that Sharif and Jameel had never served as professor in an educational institution.
 
 The regulations also say that the panel of shortlisted candidates be finalised by a search-cum-selection committee, a provision that was violated in case of AMU. In AMU, selection is done by the university’s executive council. In March 2016, the executive council had decided that UGC Regulations did not apply to the university. The ministry’s directive to follow the regulations came in May last year.
 
 Salamat Ullah, president of AMU Old Boys Association, had questioned the violation of UGC regulations. “However, I did not get any proper response,” he said, adding that his observations were put on record.
 
 He also wanted to know why the earlier panel of names for VC finalised last year was scrapped. “I raised objection about selection being done by the EC and not search-cum-selection committee,” he said.
 
 When the five names sent by the executive council was put to vote in AMU court, Masoor got 94 votes, Sharif got 90 and Jameel 86. The two who did not make the cut were AMU registrar Javaid Akhter with 84 votes and Mazahir Kidwai, VC, IIMT University, Meerut, with 36 votes.
 
 
