PANAJI:   is keen to collaborate with Goa in the tourism,  . Pointing out that Goa and Cyprus share several similarities,   to India Demetrious Theophylactou expressed his desire to ink expertise-sharing agreements with Goa.

 Speaking exclusively to TOI, Theophylactou said, “The areas we have are tourism, conservation of culture – we have a long history and archeology - renewables, solar and thermal energy, shipping and maritime security. We want to work with countries like India and states like Goa.”
 
 The Cypriot high commissioner to India has already held discussions with Goa university and is exploring the idea of setting up an institute in Cyprus for continuous education. “This can serve the purpose not only in addressing the needs of professors, but again to engage the professionals in the education sector,” he said.
 
 Currently, the exchange of tourists between India and Cyprus is negligible. “The numbers are low and I think there is a lot of scope and potential as the numbers are in a few thousand every year. On the other hand, the number of Indian students is higher than the number of Indian tourists,” the high commissioner said.
 
 While Goa targets numbers, Cyprus is focusing on high-end tourism. “What I am most interested in is the exchange of experts and scientists in  , thermal energy who at the same time could address issues pertaining to tourism. It is not always good to bring masses of people and it is better to maximize benefits and bring people who are interested in the country not as a tourism product but who can, at the same time explore business and academic opportunities,” Theophylactou said.
 
 One of the key enablers for better collaboration is direct flights between the two countries, which could facilitate business and tourism collaboration. “Charter flights could be explored as the first step, but the ultimate objective is to have direct flights, of course not daily; but to do that, we have to show that there is sufficient traffic. I think in a year from now we will see results concerning a direct flight,” he said.
 
