In an industry where diplomacy is the norm, Kishwer Merchantt doesn’t shy away from calling a spade a spade. So, it came as no surprise when she recently lashed out at VJ   and VJ   for apparently mocking her friend’s accent on social media. It all began when Anusha chanced upon an Instagram video posted by Kishwer, which featured two of her friends talking about ‘pancake’. Anusha and Gaelyn then posted a video, apparently making fun of the friend’s accent while using the word pancake. And then, as they say, all hell broke loose. 

 An infuriated Kishwer told BT, “That video wasn’t in good taste. They weren’t commenting on random people and their accents, it was a reaction to my insta story. Anusha has a weird accent when she speaks in Hindi, but we don’t make fun of that. Each city and country has a different accent. She can’t put people down just because she is from  .”
 
 After Kishwer’s social media outburst, Anusha wrote that it was all in fun. However, Kishwer retorted, “A celebrity needs to be a little cautious before posting anything on social media. I had once posted something about a top Bollywood actress' acting skills and got trolled by her fans. That experience was an eye-opener.”
 
 When we got in touch with Anusha regarding this, she said, “I don’t want to give this controversy any more publicity. I am as desi as anybody else and this is my country, too. It’s crazy that the issue around somebody’s accent even came up. And if you are truly protecting your friend, instead of making it more public, wouldn’t it always be better to pick up the phone and ask for the post to be deleted because you find it offensive? Giving the argument a racial flavour just because I have an accent... now, that’s being racist.” She added, “Is the slandering that’s happening on social media cool? The video has been taken out of context. Nobody considered that all of us have an accent! Gaelyn is funny and good at impressions, but she wouldn’t hurt a soul. I won’t pull the kind of stunt that I have been accused of. I would be the first one to apologise profusely as I never intended to hurt anyone and I’ve called it peace on Instagram.”
 
  
  
 
