CHENNAI:   Motorcycle & Scooter India (HMSI) is now the largest contributor to parent   Company’s two-wheeler business worldwide, both in terms of production and sales.   climbed to the top of the pecking order in HMC’s two-wheeler business globally with a 28% share of the total global volumes in the just concluded FY17 — that’s up from 26% in FY16.

 Top HMSI officials said the company is targeting more than 30% share of HMC’s global sales this fiscal. “In terms of total units, HMSI is now the largest contributor to our parent HMC’s two-wheeler business. And we are a profitable company. All reinvestments in capacity expansion in India are with our own money — not debt, not money from HMC Japan,” said Y S Guleria, senior VP (sales & marketing), HMSI.
 
 HMSI plans to invest Rs 1,600 crore this fiscal, mainly for new models and expansion of capacity in its Karnataka factory for an additional 6 lakh (or 0.6 million) units annually. “Including the Rs 1,600 crore, our cumulative investment in India since start of operations (FY2000 to FY2018) is Rs 9,500 crore,” said Guleria.
 
 “Our target for FY17-18 is a total of 6 million units (bikes and scooters) compared to 5 million units last year. As a forecast, we want 66% contribution from scooters and 34% from motorcycles. The mix is in line with past two fiscals — in FY16 scooters were 65% and motorcycles 35%, while in FY17 scooters were 67% and motorcycles were 33%,” he added.
 
 “The company launched a range of motorcycles in the last few years, including Shine SP, Livo and Hornet, and is now looking to consolidate its motorcycle footprint. In FY16, the market was overall single digits, so was Honda partly due to capacity issues,” said Guleria. “In FY17, we inaugurated the scooter-only Gujarat factory. There was pent up demand for scooter models, so we did more scooter volumes and that shows up in market share and total business contribution,” he added.
 
 At 14%, HMSI’s bike market share is the same as last fiscal but the company is looking to tap both scooter sales and exports to keep the momentum going. “The two-wheeler industry grew 5% while HMSI has grown 12% last year,” said Guleria. “Our exports also contributed good growth, mostly to Saarc countries. So with exports we are looking to expand our total two-wheeler numbers,” he added.
 
 
