NEW DELHI: Ankit Vaidwan, vice-captain of the Indian netball team, was part of the team that won bronze at the Asian Championships in Malaysia last December. But that wasn’t enough to impress Delhi University, whose officials have declined to allow him to appear this May for an exam he had to skip for the championship. No wonder he is crying foul and citing the case of India’s then under-19   captain  , who unlike him, had been granted special permission to clear his papers after returning from Australia with the under-19 Cricket World Cup under his belt in 2012.

 Vaidwan, a student of physical education at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Physical Education and Sports Sciences under  , missed an odd-numbered, or the third, semester paper last December due to his participation in the Malaysia event. Vaidwan’s request to allow him to sit for the paper he missed in the even, or fourth, semester immediately following or to grant him promotion has so far gone unheeded. In case the   is made to wait for another odd semester to pass his paper, he will lose a year because he will not be eligible for admissions into the master’s level programme next year.
 
 “I am studying in a sports college and yet there is no assistance for players in these situations,” said Vaidwan. “The Asian Championship was from December 9 to December 11 last year. The exam on sports psychology and sociology was scheduled onDecember 9, so I had written to the university administration about this in advance.” He recalled that Chand has been detained by St Stephen’s College, but had been promoted to the next semester and given the chance to clear his papers during the third and fourth semesters for being the “rarest of rare cases” by the then vice-chancellor.
 
 “When I cited Unmukt Chand’s case, university officials said that the cricketer had failed in his papers, while I was marked absent. They said that there was no provision for cases like mine,” added Vaidwan. Attempts made to contact vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi and dean of examinations Vinay Gupta over phone and text messages elicited no response. 
 
