PUNE: While 50 percent reservation in contesting elections brought women to the fore, the same enthusiasm didn’t reflect among the voting lot.

 To encourage more women to vote, the   will hold an   on March 8 — marked as International Women’s day — as a part of the drive expected to continue for a year.
 
 The election officials stated that the voter turnout in the recent municipal elections was below expectations. Considering the low percentage of women voters, they need to be encouraged to participate in the process.
 
 The special programme has been organized by the state election commission along with the revenue department officials.
 
 The initiative was proposed by the state government keeping in mind the upcoming Assembly and   elections.
 
 The district administration has planned a series of programmes to spread awareness among women to ensure they register themselves as voters as well as actively participate during the election process in the future.
 
 “We have found that those who register are mainly male voters and youngsters. Thus, the focus is on women voters and this awareness campaign will continue throughout the year. Various organisations have volunteered to join the effort,” said an election official from the district administration.
 
 To spearhead the year-long drive the government has roped in women from various walks of life, including anganwadi workers, helpers, Asha workers, self-help groups and non-government groups to reach out to women voters and ensure more participation in the forthcoming elections.
 
 The officials added that they would also involve women leaders in the process. On March 8, women voters can visit the polling officers or the block level officers in their respective areas to make the necessary changes in their personal details, like change of name after marriage. The ones registered as voters but have not received their voter IDs would get their electoral cards on the day, said the election officials.
 
 The respective electoral registration officer and block level officers have been told to implement this programme.
 
