 working president MK   launched a frontal attack on Prime Minister   for not granting him an appointment. Inaugurating the restoration work of a temple tank in Kancheepuram on Sunday, Stalin said despite repeated attempts, Modi had refused appointment to him, though he was the opposition leader of the assembly in Tamil Nadu.

 Though Stalin as well as other DMK leaders had flayed the BJP on a range of issues from Neduvasal to Neet and imposition of Hindi, the caustic remarks were reserved for BJP as a party or the central government, while a cautious tone was adopted while referring to Modi. 
 
 More recently, Stalin had blamed the centre for 'selective raids’ and `selective arrests’ in Tamil Nadu, accusing the BJP of attempting to gain a foothold in the state exploiting the political vacuum. Stalin, however, was careful to only “urge” Modi to stop those selective raids and never blamed him for it.
 
 Apparently now the DMK has upped the ante against the BJP, attacking Modi directly. The move comes barely days after DMK rubbed on the wrong side of BJP by leaving them out from the list of invitees to DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi’s birthday celebrations. The Prime minister doesn’t have the heart to meet farmers and a responsible opposition leader, Stalin said.
 
 In a statement Stalin recalled that two days ago, former chief minister O Panneerselvam visited New Delhi and met prime minister Narendra Modi. ``He holds no posts whatsoever, other than being an MLA. But as soon as he seeks appointment with the prime minister, it is granted. Subsequently the meeting with a person who is neither a chief minister nor a minister lasts for 30 minutes,’’ Stalin said in the statement.
 
 “When we passed a resolution at an all-party meeting on the farmer’s distress and sought an appointment with the prime minister to submit resolutions on behalf of all the parties, there was no response from the prime minister’s side,” said Stalin.
 
 “Some say DMK is staging a drama by restoring water bodies. I leave it to you to contemplate if it is the DMK or our critics who are straging a drama,’’ Stalin said. 
 
 Union minister Pon Radhakrihsnan sought to defend the PM’s meeting with OPS. ``OPS must have stated a justifiable reason while seeking an appointment with PM. I cannot comment on PMs refusal to meet Stalin without knowing the purpose he had stated when he sought appointment,’’ Radhakrihsnan said in Madurai.
 
 "The prime minister knows when to meet whom and under what circumstances," BJP state unit president Tamilisai Sounderrajan said. "Therefore these accusations made against the prime minister are for politics and nothing else," she added.
 
