PATNA: Vocational courses seems to beckoning students, including girls, the most at the degree and PG levels in Magadh University ( ).

 The MU colleges located in and around Patna are getting a good number of applications for admission to vocational courses like MBA, MCA, BCA, BBM, Biotechnology, Communicative English and Journalism. For, vocational courses are job oriented. 
 
 All these courses have 60 seats each except BCA, which has 90 seats each. “The fee is around Rs 60,000 for each course, which is quite affordable,” said a source. 
 
 MU has permitted its constituent colleges to run vocational courses along with regular courses as per the guidelines of All India Council for Technical Education.
 
 College of Commerce, Arts and Science is imparting teaching in different vocational courses at PG and degree levels, said college principal Baban Singh.
 
 A N College is imparting teaching in vocational courses like MBA, MCA, BCA, BBM and environmental science and water management. The college admits students for these courses on merit basis, said a teacher of the college.
 
 T P S College has introduced BBM, BCA and Biotechnology courses at the degree level, college principal Tapan Shandaliya said.
 
 R K D College is also running courses in BCA, BBM, BSc (IT) and Tourism, said college principal P K Verma . 
 
 Similarly J D Women’s College offers degree-level vocational courses in fashion designing, health and beauty care, journalism and other courses, including MBA and MCA, at PG level. 
 
 B D College has shifted its vocational courses section to its newly built ‘Shatabdi Bhawan’ where MBA, MCA, BCA, BBM and BSc (IT) are taught to students, said college principal Sanjoy Kumar.
 
 Meanwhile, faculty members of vocational courses told TOI they were getting Rs 400 for engaging every PG-level class and Rs 300 for every degree-level class. Most of the colleges have outsourced the teaching of vocational courses to private agencies.
 
 “These agencies do not pay pay our remunerations on time,” one vocational course teacher said and pleaded that the university must do away with the practice of hiring private agencies for the purpose.
 
 
