Kolhapur: The long dry spell may hamper   growth and invite pests due to variations in temperature, according to experts in the sugar industry.

 Kolhapur and its adjoining districts Satara and Sangli are known as the sugar bowl of Maharashtra for their high sugar recovery. These areas receive abundant rain and the rivers provide a natural source of irrigation. However, the district is awaiting long   showers. Rain has ceased in the last two weeks.
 
 As per the regional sugar directorate figures, farmers in the district have cultivated sugarcane on 1.43 lakh hectares.
 
 Sugarcane expert and chief agricultural officer at Datta cooperative sugar factory Shirsail Hegana told TOI, “The long dry spell has affected natural growth of cash crop. June, July and August are crucial months for the natural growth of Sugarcane. Artificial irrigation has limitations. Therefore, natural growth may be affected due to the long dry spell lasting for the next two weeks. Nowadays, we have been witnessing fluctuations in temperature. The district has also noticed white wooly, a   which impedes sugarcane growth. Shoot borer has also appeared at some places. Therefore farmers cannot bear long dry spell.”
 
 Another sugar expert P G Medhe said, “The monsoon rain has stopped in the last two weeks. Frequent changes in temperature have given birth to white wooly which is very dangerous for the crop. The pest sucks sugar content from the crop and has long term impact on per hectare tonnage of sugarcane. It affects both the farmers and the sugar industry. If the dry spell lasts longer, district administration could restrict water pumping from the rivers. Sugarcane cultivation usually takes place in the month of July but the next crushing season has been delayed due to decreased rainfall. The situation is no different in adjoining Sangli and Satara districts.”
 
 Sugar expert and executive director of Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj cooperative sugar factory Vijay Autade said, “The rising temperature is dangerous for cash crop. As of now there no immediate threat to sugarcane but if delay in rain persists, it could hamper per hectare tonnage.”
 
 
