BHAGALPUR: The   and Banks district administrations are leaving no stone unturned to ensure foolproof security for President Pranab Mukherjee’s visit two-day visit on April 2 and 3. The president will visit   Mahavihara excavation site at   and Guru Shyama Charan Lahiri Peeth at ‘Gurudham’ in Bounsi (Banka district).

 While the road construction department has been asked to repair and reconstruct the roads to leading to the excavation site, senior police officers are on their toes to make tight security arrangements for the President’s visit.
 
 Mukherjee is scheduled to arrive at Kahalgaon on April 2 in the afternoon and would make a night stay at the guest house of Kahalgaon super thermal power station of NTPC. He would visit the excavation site of ancient Vikramshila Mahavihara on April 3 besides attending a public meeting organized there to focus the importance of the university.
 
 The President will then visit Guru Shyama Charan Lahiri Peeth at ‘Gurudham’ in Bounsi (Banka district) by chopper to pay obeisance to the immortal sage. He will also interact with the disciples of the saint there before returning to New Delhi in the evening of April 3. 
 
 The civil and district administrations of Bhagalpur and Banka are making security arrangements besides constructing helipads for the landing of the President’s chopper at Kahalgaon and Bounsi. Many roads leading to Vikramshila Mahavihara from Kahalgaon are being repaired, albeit temporarily.
 
 Police and intelligence personnel are being deployed at different locations in Kahalgaon sub-division and Banka for the President’s visit. Air ambulance, specialist doctors and fire tenders will also be kept on standby.
 
 Vikramshila Mahavihara, inhabited by thousands of Buddhist monks and scholars for research, was one of the two most important centers of Buddhist learning in India during the Pala Dynasty. The university was established by King Dharampala (783 to 820 AD) as the ancient seat of Buddhist and Tantric learning. It is presently located about 50 kilometres east of Bhagalpur and 13 kilometres north-east of Kahalgaon railway station on Bhagalpur-Sahebganj section of Eastern Railway. 
 
 At present, sustained effort is being made for the resurrection of Vikramshila Mahavihara. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced to develop a central university in the name of Vikramshila and sanctioned Rs 500 crore for its development.
 
 BJP’s Godda MP Nishikant Dubey, who hails from Kahalgaon, has been advocating for the resurrection of Vikramshila since long. He was instrumental in finalising the President’s visit to the archaeological sites of Vikramshila and Gurudham.
 
