NAGPUR: In yet another recorded case of dispersal, a tigress from 148.63sqkm   traversed around 50km to reach Painganga wildlife sanctuary in  . 
 
 Though tigers travel long in search of new territories, a tigress moving to bigger home Painganga (403sqkm) is news because the sanctuary, which gets its name from the river, was devoid of tigers for last 20 years. The last official record of two tigers in Painganga was in 1997.
 
 Chief conservator of forests (CCF) & field director of   (PTR) Rishikesh Ranjan confirmed the development saying there was talk by farmers about sighting a tiger in the sanctuary since one month.
 
 Finally, the tigress was sighted by forest guard Hanumant Yedme in Kharbi range of the park on March 19 afternoon. The next day camera traps were deployed in which the tigress was captured.
 
 “We compared tigress’s picture with those in our repository and it was found the tigress was from Tipeshwar sighted last season. It is being recorded on camera traps for last three days,” says divisional forest officer (DFO) BP Rathod.
 
 “It took the same route that a couple of male tigers did earlier. She entered Telangana and then reached   the river twice. There might have been dispersals earlier too but technology enables us to now record it,” said Ranjan.
 
 Last year, as reported by TOI, during January a male from Tipeshwar had travelled 150km to reach   in Telangana. Due to better protection and relocation of villages, Tipeshwar now has a source population of tigers. “Tipeshwar had 10 tigers — 4 adults and 6 cubs-- last year. This tigress is one of the grown cubs that has grown up. The sanctuary is too small to hold the growing number of tigers. In Painganga, there are good number of herbivores for tigers to survive. I have been told about a male frequenting Painganga in a couple of months,” says Ranjan.
 
 Wildlife researcher and faculty for zoology Ramzan Virani from Pandharkawda said the new discovery now calls for a relook of proposal to club Painganga and Tipeshwar sanctuaries as a tiger reserve spanning 552 sqkm. The proposal was sent to chief wildlife warden last year.
 
 Virani said the reserve will help mobilize more funds, which could be used for habitat development, conservation and management programmes, weed eradication schemes, plantations etc. Besides, ecotourism will bring jobs to locals.
 
 “More area is needed for source population of tigers from Tipeshwar. It is very important to enrich gene pool between Tipeshwar and Painganga, otherwise tigers will suffer. I agree tiger reserve will make laws stringent, but with people's participation, things can be made easy,” said wildlife photographer Masood Hussain.
 
 
