When you have been in the industry long enough, and, by your own admission, made a few mistakes along the way that have made you cautious about the work you want to take up, you do sometimes end up with projects that matter to you. That’s exactly how   is looking at work these days. Fresh from a good outing in the KM Chaitanya-directed Aake, the actress is looking forward to the release of  , in which she plays an investigative journalist.
The role, she says, is special to her on many levels. “This is my first film with Shivarajkumar, as well as my other co-stars Yogi, Vijay Raghavendra and  , all of whom I have known on a personal level for a long time. The fact that we shared a rapport helped immensely on set, as there was a certain comfort factor, even when I was delivering lengthy monologues. Also, when director   came to me with the offer, he was very clear that the character would be strong, not require me to do a song-and-dance routine and have no romantic angle. That really appealed to me, as I have never before done such a role,” says Sharmiela.
 And yet, ultimately, the actress has done a belly-dance number for the film. “Initially, the team wanted to bring in an actress from Mumbai for the special number. But then they suggested that I do it, considering that it is part of the narrative that I am involved with,” she says.
 At first I wondered if audiences would relate to an investigative journalist breaking into song and dance. But when you watch the film, her motive will become clear. In fact, she is in disguise for the song, trying to get her hands on information, which will help her prove something,” says Sharmiela. While it looks like the actress had a blast shooting for the song,  , Sharmiela says that it was far from a cakewalk. “I have seen and even done a bit of belly dancing, but for Abida, I was expected to perform like a professional, along with backup dancers who have been doing this forever. That was tough, but our choreographer, Mohan, was very helpful and the end product looks really nice,” she signs off. 
 
 
