MUMBAI: Rating agency Standard & Poor’s which downgraded   on Monday said that it will lower its rating further if the government decides to dilute  . The public sector bank is being pushed by the government as showcase of its intent to reform banks by rejigging shareholding to an Axis Bank-like structure.

 "We downgraded IDBI because we expect the bank's asset quality to remain very weak over the next 12 months," said S&P Global Ratings credit analyst Nikita Anand. "Our view is based on the bank's customer concentration and a sizable exposure to the highly vulnerable corporate and infrastructure segments."
 
 S&P said that the rating on IDBI currently benefits from four notches of uplift because of a very high likelihood of government support. “The rating on the bank may no longer benefit from this uplift, leading to a  , if we believe this support has weakened. This could happen if the government considers privatizing IDBI. The risk of privatization will increase if the government decides to lower its stake in IDBI,” said the agency.
 
 The bank's nonperforming loan (NPL) ratio rose sharply to 15.2% as of Dec. 31, 2016, from 10.9% as of March 31, 2016. “The deterioration was greater than we had expected. The bank has a large amount of strategic debt restructuring. IDBI's standard restructured loans, at 7.2% of total loans, also remain higher than its peers'. All these factors reflect a significant weakness in the bank's asset quality,” S&P said.
 
 Late on Monday S&P Global Ratings lowered its long-term foreign currency issuer credit rating on IDBI Bank Ltd. to 'BB' from 'BB+' and assigned a stable outlook. S&P also lowered its issue ratings on the bank's senior unsecured notes to 'BB' from 'BB+'.
 
 Besides bad debt, another reason for worry with IDBI Bank is its high concentration of exposure to single entities and business groups. Exposure to the top 20 customers was about 222% of the bank's equity as of March 31, 2016, higher than the peer average (168% for the top five Indian public sector banks). 
 
 Moreover, IDBI has high exposure to the troubled infrastructure segment (25.7% as of Dec. 31, 2016) making the bank more vulnerable than peers. “The current downcycle in India has been protracted and we expect only a gradual improvement in the corporate sector. We expect IDBI's reported stressed assets to continue to increase as the recognition norms in India improve,” S&P said.
 
 The had bank reported a loss of Indian rupee Rs 3660 crore in fiscal 2016 (year ended March 31, 2016) and Rs1960 crore in the first nine months of fiscal 2017. "The stable outlook reflects our expectation that the likelihood of support to IDBI from the government of India will remain very high at least for the next 12 months," said Ms. Anand.
 
