KOLKATA:  , the most prominent among state-run technology institutes in West Bengal, has succeeded in filling-up more engineering seats this year after completion of three rounds of   conducted by the   (WBJEEB), as compared to the last session. 

 In the 2016-17 session, the number of seats left over after centralised e-counselling was 220. The figure will be around 180 this year despite an increase of 100 seats over the last academic session.
 
 "We are waiting for a detailed report on department-wise vacancies in Jadavpur University," said dean of engineering Chiranjeeb Bhattacharyya. According to a source, the university will be admitting 1,189 students in engineering courses across all departments in 2017-18. The remaining 180-odd seats will be filled up after completion of decentralised counselling, dates for which will be announced later. 
 
 "We are generating the final admission status report as well as vacancy status report in respect of all the participating institutions for the 2017-18 session. It will soon be sent to the colleges," a WBJEEB official said. 
 
 "Reasonable numbers of seats in technical courses are lying vacant. It has been decided to allow all the participating institutions (that participated in the e-counselling process in 2017-18) to admit students through de-centralized counselling and allotment process," he added.
 
 Though the number of vacancies have come down in JU this year, authorities are still trying to identify reasons behind a section of students opting to study in other colleges despite showing initial interest to get themselves admitted at the university.
 
 "We will call an admission committee meeting to determine the next course of action. Most of the coveted engineering seats could be filled up if the admission process starts earlier. Since the admission fee is a mere Rs 5,000, some students may have moved out even after being allotted seats at Jadavpur. Even after paying the admission fee, they don't take admissions," said a senior faculty member of the varsity. 
 
 "A possible solution could be to grant admissions after the first two rounds of e-counselling. Further rounds of counselling can be conducted depending on the number of vacant seats," he added.
 
