HYDERABAD: It is not state universities alone that have been crippled by the lack of teaching staff. The shortage has come to haunt central universities in Telangana too, with its three varsities -University of Hyderabad (UoH), English and Foreign Languages University ( ) and   (Manuu) -collectively posting a vacancy count of 308.

 The figures were tabled in the Lok Sabha, in March, by Mahendra Nath Pandey, minister of state in the ministry of human resource development (MHRD).
 
 While the ministry conceded that teachers' vacancies in central universities has become a “serious issue“, universities in Telangana attribute this to the unavailability of quality teachers. “Finding quality teachers is a challenge. Even though we get applications from various qualified candidates, their future vision or their goals don't impress us during the interview. Sometimes even the quality of their PhD work is not up to the mark,“ said Vipin Srivastava, pro vice-chancellor of UoH. The university recently filled 48 vacant positions from the 3,420 applications that it received.
 
 At Manuu, officials say, the crux of the problem is the insufficient number of candidates from the reserved category. “Majority of the posts lying vacant in our university fall under the reserved category for which we have been advertising repeatedly. Yet we have not been able to find suitable candidates till date,“ said Shakeel Ahmed, pro vice-chancellor and in-charge registrar at Manuu, which, at present, has 87 teaching posts that are vacant.
 
 The scene is no different at Eflu where 64 teaching posts are waiting to be filled.Majority of these posts are in the professor, assistant professor and associate professor categories.
 
 And apart from the other reasons, officials also uphold the poor supply of of grants by the   (UGC) as a genuine hurdle in the way of filling teachers' posts. “We face a lot of problem in getting enough grants from the   as compared to various other institutions such as IITs and NITs that directly fall under the ambit of the MHRD. Due to this, salary scales are comparatively lesser in central universities as compared to IITs and NITs,“ explained Srivastava.
 
 According to sources, while the salary of a professor at a central university can go up to `45,000, in IITs and NITs the figure can touch `60,000.
 
 Although the age of supe rannuation for teachers in central educational institutions has been enhanced to 65 years from the previous 62, authorities also cite the migration of teachers and retirements as a major reason for a high count of vacant posts.
 
 In order to tackle the situation arising from the shortage of teachers, many central universities in Telangana have recruited adhocguest facultyre-employedcontract faculty against vacant positions. “Universities can recruit ad-hoc and guest faculty according to their operational requirements to the extent of only 10 per cent, as per the UGC regulations. This does not resolve the issue as the requirement is much more in various universities,“ said a faculty member from Eflu on condition of anonymity.
 
