KOCHI: Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), Kerala circle, will soon sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Cochin Devaswom Board (CDB) to improve infrastructure in   palace museum. At present, ASI has trouble improving facilities at historical and   sites that is popular with the tourists as the land ownership of many such structures are with the devaswom board or the government, according to officials.

 “The Mattancherry palace museum is listed under the tentative list of Unesco world heritage sites (WHS). However, without proper infrastructure like toilet blocks and cloakrooms for tourists, it could be removed from the list. If an MoU is signed between ASI and CDB, the maintenance and development of not only the structure, but the surrounding land could also be taken care of without much hassles,“ said Smitha Sumathy , superintending archaeologist in-charge, ASI.
 
 Kadakampally Surendran, minister for tourism said heritage is an important element of Kerala tourism and necessary action will be taken for conserving it.
 
 “Muziris is a prestigious project of the department which puts heritage and culture first. The department has also recently taken up   heritage project, and will carry on with guarding the rich heritage of our state,“ the minister said.
 
 Despite the assurances poor maintenance of heritage sites across the state continues to be an issue. The Art and   formed for coordinating different departments involved in heritage protection and maintenance, remains nearly defunct in many of the districts in the state.
 
 According to K Remanan, chief town planner, town planning department, local authorities play a key role inprotection and maintenance of heritage sites in their locality.
 
 “The department is only involved in providing plans and layouts for the developmental works. Heritage zones and locations are considered and left untouched in such plans. The rest lays in the hands of the local authorities,“ Remanan said.
 
 K K N Kurup, former director general of Centre for  , said often local authorities themselves have a hand in the ruin of historical and heritage sites.
 
 “The local panchayats themselves are destroying urn burial spots and megalithic structures for developmental purposes. They haven't even bothered to maintain a record of such zones and sites within their limits,“ Kurup said.
 
