PUNE: The Supreme Court’s recent rulings in the   and Soumya rape and murder cases were discussed threadbare, among a plethora of cases, by the   and defence lawyers in support of and against the death sentence in the   case on Tuesday.

 The arguments primarily focused on the aggravating and mitigating circumstances and whether the court, in a case based entirely on circumstantial evidence, should get swayed by public sentiment in determining a capital punishment. The lawyers drew attention to some landmark rulings by the apex court relating to when a death sentence should be awarded in a crime and, particularly, in rape-and-murder cases.
 
 Special public prosecutor Harshad   submitted that the accused in the Nayana case have shown no remorse for their act. The court ought to go by the aggravating circumstances in view of the evidence, including approver Rajesh Chaudhari’s statement, which has been held proved against the accused, he said.
 
 “The accused gangraped the victim, murdered her and smashed her face in an act of extreme brutality. The victim was an innocent, helpless woman in a hapless situation and the accused were in a position of dominance. The question that begs an answer is whether such perverts and sex pests should be kept at large by not sentencing them to death,” he said.
 
 He submitted that the Nirbhaya case judgment referred in detail to all the SC cases involving punishment in rape and murder cases. The circumstances in that case are in uniformity with the Nayana case, attracting the same yardsticks of punishment, he said. 
 
 “The accused (in the Nayana case) deserve the death sentence and no other punishment. If this is not a rarest of rare case, then no other case can be,” Nimbalkar argued.
 
 “There are no mitigating circumstances but for the contention that accused Yogesh Raut has a wife, child and mother to look after. The other two accused are unmarried. The SC guidelines in the Machchi Singh case state that age and family background cannot be considered as a mitigating circumstance. In the Bacchan Singh case, where the rarest of rare doctrine was first propounded, the court held that there should be a fine balance of both aggravating and mitigating circumstances in which a death sentence ought to be given if a life sentence is seen as inadequate. The Nayana case involves exceptional depravity and extreme brutality,” Nimbalkar argued.
 
  Biju Aloor contended that the public outcry over Nayana’s murder was understandable but argued that there was no place for sentiment in cases determined by courts. He cited the 2011 rape-murder case of Soumya (a Kochi shopping mall employee who died after she was pushed off a train and raped while injured), in which a three-judge SC bench had struck down the death sentence awarded to accused Govindachami and sent him to life imprisonment. “A six-judge SC bench had later upheld the judgment in the Soumya case in a curative petition. All this, even after the case had generated a massive public outcry, a hartal and political parties in Kerala coming together for the victim’s cause,” he said. 
 
 Aloor argued that the prosecution cannot justify seeking the death punishment when the approver, who was a part of the rape offence, was being released. A sentence lesser than death may be considered, he said.
 
