If you are planning to get hitched this wedding season, make sure you have some parking sense and permission from the cops. The city police, in a notice to wedding venues, have promised strict action against processions that result in traffic jams and have also warned the organisers about facing the music if noise levels go beyond permissible limits. So, if you are heading to book a wedding hall for your grand shaadi, do visit the police station first. Otherwise, your plans of making a grand entrance in a sexy car and shaking a leg to the beats might just go down the drain. 

 The notice comes on the heels of rising complaints against traffic jams due to haphazard parking and also loud music belted out by huge sound systems. The cops have asked the venue owners to provide dedicated parking spaces to guests or appoint people to streamline the traffic flow. More than 40 marriage halls have been issued notices and two venues have also been charged under Indian Penal Code 283.
 
 
  
 
 However, marriage halls claim they are helpless in these matters because the number of visitors goes out of control at times. “Though our parking space is reserved for our guests, visitors from nearby venues use it to park vehicles. Our watchman can’t keep this in check. Then there are the latecomers who park on the road,” informs Suresh Sharma, owner of Shubharambha Hall at DP Road.
 Other halls claim to have adequate parking space and volunteers to guide visitors, but according to the police, that’s not the case. “During the  , most areas around marriage halls and lawns see traffic jams due to haphazard parking by visitors which not only causes traffic but noise issues as well. To prevent that, we have issued notices to these places and have asked them to make parking arrangements,” said Rajendra Bhamre, Assistant Commissioner of Police, Traffic division.
 
 Police have also given instructions to the brass bands to avoid traffic issues whenever they are playing. According to members from these bands they take precautionary measures and inform their customers about the rules and regulations. “Many customers want us to play loud music but we inform them beforehand to not force the player to do so. Also there are many marriage halls around residential areas where we prefer to play traditional beats which are less noisy,” informs Hemant Mane, from Sargam Band.
 
 Ravindra Adhav of Gandharva Band also says that they send only a few instruments to marriage halls so that the sound level doesn’t go beyond 60 decibels, which is permissible limit. “People are aware that the groom will face the music if the police take action. So they avoid forcing the band players to increase the sound. Also we refrain from using the octopad, which generates the highest sound.”
 
 Many Marriage halls themselves have banned firecrackers and bands altogether. Sanket Marathe, owner of the various marriage halls in the city, says, “We take bookings only if the patron agrees to our terms and conditions. Most of the halls in the residential areas have completely banned the use of firecrackers and brass bands.”
 
 There are halls that have found a middle way out. “We understand that music has an important place in celebrations but we can’t break rules. We have allowed three people to play music inside the halls so that that it can’t be heard outside. This solves both the purposes,” informs the manager of a popular wedding hall on Apte road.
 
