PATNA: A large number of   lovers might have given up alcohol during the last one year since   turned a dry state in April 2016, but quite a few have turned to drug abuse to compensate for the liquor deprivation.
 
  Four such addicts are undergoing treatment in the 15-bed de-addiction facility at the   in Patna. While three of these resident patients had resorted to cannabis, one had been abusing solvents.
  
  According to official sources, the PMCH centre was opened in July 2016 soon after prohibition was enforced. It has since handled 256 cases of abuse of various substance.
  
  The facility’s main entrance remains locked these days. “For, a few of the patients go berserk and try to run out to get their dose of drug,” explained an employee on Tuesday.
  
  PMCH de-addiction centre’s nodal officer Dr Amardeep   said fewer cases of alcohol addicts would now arrive. “In the last few months, we received one or maybe two cases of alcohol addiction. Most of the cases we receive now are of addiction related to cannabis products like marijuana,” he said.
  
  Cases of drug abuse also come. “We had a patient who owned a drug store. After prohibition, he became addicted to Spasmo Proxyvon, a painkiller. He was ‘cured’ by us, but the ailment relapsed as availability was not a challenge for him,” said Dr Kumar.
  
  All the state’s 38 districts have a government de-addiction centre each.   has the largest one with 30 beds, according to its nodal officer Dr Santosh Kumar.
  
  “We have treated 1,300 patients for substance abuse during the one year. Of them, 334 patients were admitted. At least 23 patients are still admitted,” Dr Santosh said, adding while the number of alcohol addiction cases coming to the NMCH has come down, the centre receives mostly cannabis-related cases these days.
  
  “Twenty-one of the 23 admitted patients were addicted to ganja, bhang or other forms of cannabis. The other two were addicted to whitener,” Dr Santosh said.
  
  A rehabilitation centre in Agam Kuan has treated 65 patients since prohibition. Dr Sakil Kumar Singh, who runs a clinic in Kadamkuan, has also treated nearly 100 patients in the last one year. These two centres now also receive only cases of abuse of cannabis.
