Patiala: The satellite imagery and prompt alerts sent out by the Punjab Remote Sensing Centre (PRSC) Ludhiana, may have given the state agencies an edge over farmers setting their crop residue on fire, but if the figures collected by the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) are taken into consideration, there seems to be no end to burning of stubble across the state.

 The use of latest technologies including Remote Sensing (RS), Geographic Information System (GIS) and Global Positioning System (GPS) to collect geo-spatial data on crop burning helped the state authorities pinpoint a total of 1,305 cases where fires were spotted in the farms in the last month. Around 248 cases of fire were identified by the board on basis of tipoff, taking the total number of farm fires to 1,553.
 
 Authorities in the pollution control board said that out of these incidents, no action was initiated in 765 cases as fires were found to have been caused of natural phenomena or by the electric wires. In 788 other cases, it was found that farms had deliberately set straw ablaze. The PPCCB authorities even imposed a penalty of Rs 8.07 lakh on these violators. Out of them, 226 have so far deposited Rs 4.07 lakh with the board.
 
 PPCB chairman Manpreet Singh Chatwal said that entire state machinery was working to curtail the menace by both initiating action and sensitizing farmers to give up the practice in the large interest of the society. He said that farmers should understand that putting crop on fire was not only in contradiction of the law of the land, but also ruined the soil fertility.
 
 On December 10, 2015, National Green Tribunal (NGT) had asked the state to use remote sensing facilities to monitor and curb crop burning. Though the state authorities had started using the services of the Punjab Remote Sensing Centre, (PRSC) Ludhiana, last year, but the text alerts to deputy commissioner DCs and district monitoring committees were introduced from April 1, this year. PPCB, which is the executing agency for the project, had deposited Rs 7 lakh with the PRSC as expenses toward SMSes.
 
 
