Amritsar: Kin of the 39 Indians, who had gone missing in Mosul city of Iraq in June 2014, have alleged that the Punjab government has stopped giving the financial assistance to their families. 

 “In June, we had received the financial assistance for April and May but after that nothing has been given to us,” said Manish, whose brother Harish and brother-in-law Malkiat are among the 39 youths, most of them from Punjab. All these youths were believed to have been abducted by the ISIS from Mosul.
 
 Families of most of the missing Indians in Iraq had taken loans to send their kin abroad to earn a livelihood. After reports of their abduction, the previous SAD-BJP government in Punjab had announced a monthly financial assistance of Rs 2,000 per month to these distressed families. 
 
 In all, 40 Indians were reportedly abducted by the ISIS on June 10, 2014, from Mosul. One of them, Harjit Masih, managed to dodge the militants and returned to India. He claimed that the ISIS had killed all of them but their relatives and the Indian government refused to acknowledge his claims in the absence of any credible evidence.
 
 Gurpinder Kaur, whose brother Manjinder Singh is also missing in Mosul, said, “I got one cheque in June and since then I have not received any financial assistance.” She had also tweeted to CM Amarinder Singh, stating that, “Sir, the previous government was giving financial help to 39 kidnapped Indians families but now they are not getting, kindly look into this matter.” She said that she didn’t receive any reply from the CM.
 
 Gurprinder said that’s all they could do, requesting the Indian government to trace their relatives and urging the state government to not stop the financial assistance. “My brother is the only hope of my elderly parents, I am married and doing a private job and also helping my parents. There are families whose women are working as daily-wage earners to keep the hearth burning,” she said.
 
 Hira Lal, whose brother Sonu was also in the group, said that, “We are daily-wages earners. How my brother’s family will sustain itself? The government should continue the financial assistance.”
 
 When contacted, Amritsar deputy commissioner Kamaldeep Singh Sangha said, “No, there is no change or withdrawal of disbursement of financial assistance to the kin of youth abducted in Iraq. There might be some procedural delay in the release of money. However, none of the kin of the abducted youths has approached us so far.”
 
 
