NEW DELHI: Even as a debate rages over the safety of children in schools, it’s perhaps pertinent to find out how vulnerable students in corporation-run schools are. 

 There are 7.14 lakh students in 1,650 schools run by the three municipal corporations in the capital. None of these have watchmen during school hours. The gates remain mostly open and anybody could walk in without a gatekeeper to ask for ID proof. 
 
 Some school grounds have become playgrounds for locals. Worse: some even do drugs and drink alcohol inside and dump empty bottles or cans there. Apart from a moralistic point, there is a larger point on safety and   of students in these schools. 
 
 The civic bodies have employed night watchmen who work from 5pm to 8am and not during school hours. “These chaukidars have been hired for protecting school property, not the children,” said a staffer of one of these schools. 
 
 When TOI visited Nigam Prathamik Bal/Balika Vidyalaya at K block, Jahangirpuri, the main gate was open. Classes were on while teenage boys from the vicinity were moving in and out of the campus. The principal (in charge), Abhinandan Kumar, was relaxing in a chair outside his office, but didn’t bother to ask the outsiders to leave. 
 
 Jahangirpuri B block’s municipal primary school has become a rendezvous point for anti-social elements who easily scale the low boundary walls, and drink and smoke weed. “Sometimes they do it even when the classes are on. Once when I asked them to leave, they threatened to kill me,” said a school attendant. 
 
 The school, which has 400 girls and 300 boys, had written to the local police for help in July. But patrolling hasn’t increased, and thefts have also occurred in the school. 
 
 At another school in Bhalswa Dairy where about 1,300 students study, the main gate was wide open. When principal Rajendra Kumar Mandal was asked about it, he said, “We always keep it closed; today is an exception.” However, a vendor outside said the gate is always open, and students often run away from class. In such an environment, they are quite vulnerable to physical and even sexual assault. 
 
 Vibha Singh, vice president of Nagar Nigam Shikshak Sangh, an association of corporation school teachers, said, “The safety of the students is left to attendants (most of them women) when classes are on. But an attendant is often too busy assisting teachers or the principal and doesn’t get time to think about the safety of the students.” 
 
 In north corporation, 316 posts of attendants and 20 posts of chowkidars are vacant; south corporation has 200 chowkidar vacancies; east corporation has 100 vacant attendant posts. EDMC has CCTV cameras in 15 schools while SDMC has 62 schools covered. 
 
 “Due to lack of safety measures, the children live in an atmosphere of fear in municipal schools,” said Rakesh Kumar, leader of opposition in north corporation. 
 
 SDMC mayor   said CCTV cameras would be installed in all schools, while north mayor Preety Aggarwal said principals would be trained on safety. 
 
 
