KOLKATA: Is the new health regulatory commission mooted by chief minister   old wine in a new bottle? This is the question doing the rounds at private hospitals.

 Backed into a corner by the state's aggressive stance aga state's aggressive stance against “profit-hungry“ health facilities, some private hospitals pointed out the penalty clauses to be included in the new bill were almost identical to the existing ones under the Clinical Establishment Act. The way the grievances would be redressed and fines imposed could make a difference, they felt. “What remains to be seen is whether the new commission will reach out to patients in distress and help them secure swift justice. It will help if the commission removes the legal hassles for patient's families,“ said Alok Roy, chairman, Medica Hospitals.
 
 An efficient redress mechanism should help cleanse the system and revive trust between patients and hospitals, said  , CEO, AMRI Hospitals. “The commission has to function as a watchdog. We probably needed such a body to ensure people don't lose faith in private hospitals,“ said Barua.
 
 Some, like Roy, felt the panel could be a blessing in disguise for hospitals and doctors. “Doctors sometimes make mistakes and there's a notion that hospitals try to cover up for them. The commission will make both hospitals and doctors ensure best treatment possible,“ said Roy.
 
 But some senior doctors said the new body could throw them in the line of fire. “I feel betrayed by those supposed to advocate our cause. It's been nearly two weeks since   was ransacked but so far, no doctors' body or hospital organization has come up with a defence. The state's aggressive posture is tightening the noose around our necks and it could become difficult to function,“ said cardiac surgeon Kunal Sarkar. He said the panel should help patients seek redress. “But with our infrastructure, it is difficult to evolve a foolproof probe mechanism. How do you prove medical negligence without a proper post-mortem? Will the new commission have the powers to get it done?“ Rather than penalty provisions, charges should be looked into, said  , executive member of  . “The state needs to get all stakeholders together and review costs. Once treatment turns reasonable, complaints will go down,“ Nemani said.
 
