PATNA: A day after sadar deputy collector land reforms (DCLR) Kumar Mithilesh Prasad Singh’s property was attached at Sugiya village in Sheikhpura district for his alleged involvement in the Kankarbagh power substation land forgery case,   DM Sanjay Kumar Agarwal on Wednesday said the public prosecutors would be asked to plead the cases firmly in the court.

 The substation land was fraudulently transferred to one Devendra Kumar Mahto. Patna sadar circle officer Shamim Akhtar Mazhari and revenue clerk Anil Kumar Lal were arrested in the case on June 22 while the DCLR is still at large. Devendra surrendered before the court last week.
 
 The DM said the government advocates would also be asked to provide to the district administration the details of the pending cases between private parties claiming ownership on the government land.
 
 “The administration will soon issue orders to the government pleaders in this connection,” he said.
 
 When asked, the DM said he was yet to get details about such pending cases in which private parties claimed ownership on the government land in Patna district.
 
 Agarwal also said a special meeting was held with the officials of all state government departments to know if there were any dispute over any land owned by any particular department.
 
 “The officials were also asked to inform the administration about encroachments on government land,” he said, adding that investigations were on after the power substation land scam surfaced that if any more such forgery had been done in the past.
 
 “Till now, no more case has surfaced where government land had been sold fraudulently to private persons,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, Patna civil court government pleader Shambhu Prasad said huge number of cases were pending before courts in Patna where private parties claim their ownership on government plots of land.
 
 “The process is that the DM is sent a notice through court in such disputes after which the government pleaders are informed. On Several occasions, the notices don’t reach on time to the DM office or to us due to some connivance and the court passes ex-party order,” he said adding that mostly such land disputes are related to land grabbing in which forged land deeds are produced before the courts.
 
 Meanwhile, police sources said the DCLR’s residence at Sugiya was an ancestral single-storey house which was attached on Tuesday and no one was living at the place.
 
 “Only a few property was found for attachment. Police were gathering information about the places where his family could have taken refuge,” sources said. Police also submitted the case diary before the special vigilance court in Patna on Wednesday.
 
 
