As the city braces up for a hot spell of summer,   buffs in the city are all set to pack their bags and head to cooler climes. The mercury is soaring day by day and what’s a better time to escape from the scorching heat. N Ganesan, a native of the city, tells us, “There was a time when people from hotter destinations would visit their relatives in Coimbatore and head to Ooty together. Coimbatore’s weather is not the same anymore. It can give Chennai heat a run for its money. Besides, Ooty has lost its quaint charm and has become extremely crowded. It’s time Coimbatoreans started exploring hill stations in other parts of the country.”

 K Chandran, managing director of a   in RS Puram, shares, “An average Coimbatorean’s travel plans largely revolve around their children and their holidays. Summer season is hence, the preferred time to travel. The travelers can be segregated into two categories- the middle-class, who prefer budget-friendly trips and the affordable category, who do not hesitate to shell out on exquisite expeditions. While the former are opting for South East Asian countries, the latter have preferred to go on cruises. A sizeable number of people are all set to head to Alaska, Mediterranean Sea, New Zealand and Baltic cruise. On the other hand, the middle class, who have explored Malaysia and Singapore, have a new-found interest in Bali.”
 
 S Rajasekar of an online travel portal says the travel season in Coimbatore begins in April. “This year, it began in the last week of March itself and will reach its peak in April and May. The majority is travelling to places like Kodaikanal, Munnar, Coorg, Masinagudi and Thekkady. The younger lots are planning trips that involve some activity as well, like trekking. Wildlife tours too are on the rise and wildlife enthusiasts are flocking to forests in Thekkady, Kodaikanal, Kabini, Masinagudi, Bandipur, Munnar, Chinnar and Top Slip. Havelock Islands in Andaman and Nicobar Islands is drawing a lot of attention, too. Interestingly, many Coimbatoreans have opted to stay at high-end hotels this year as they do not want to compromise on their comfort.” One of the prime reasons Coimbatoreans are heading out of town is because the Queen of Hill Stations is Ooty has relegated to a weekend destination, says Ashish Jain, who runs a travel agency on RG Street. “Leh-Ladakh is a sought-after destination, but people prefer to go on bike rides to these destinations, that too after June. Kashmir is emerging as a sought-after spot for Coimbatoreans.”
 
 For an average Coimbatorean, Malaysia and Singapore have always a preferred getaway. “These countries are affordable when compared to the West and people find a sense of familiarity here, courtesy the huge Tamilian population,” says Madhan A, who runs a ticketing agency in the city. “With the announcement of a direct flight from Coimbatore to Colombo, the travelers to Sri Lanka are all set to rise,” shares Ashish. “People in Coimbatore are travelling like never before and are constantly looking to explore new destinations. They try to combine it with their official tours or with family or friends. There are many heading to China and Scandinavian countries as well this year.”
 
  
 
