AHMEDABAD:  , which earlier came in for  , is now facing accusations of “carrying out the interception, monitoring and decryption of private person’s call details illegally and without any authority”.

 A Mumbai-based cardiologist, Pradeep Vyas, has sought a CBI probe against city crime branch for getting his call data records (CDR) — to favour the wife of an ex-Gujarat DGP — and telecom service provider Vodafone India Ltd, for illegally parting with the data and completely breaching the privacy of a client.
 
 Vyas approached Gujarat high court with the demand, but the HC refused to intervene in the issue and redirected the doctor to the trial court in Mumbai, where he faces criminal proceedings.
 
 Vyas in 2011 had treated  , the mother-in-law of then ADGP (prisons) P C Thakur. She was admitted to his hospital and died following cardiac arrest in May 2011. Thakur’s wife Hemlata, who died last year, had sent a complaint to Borivali police against Vyas and her own relatives, accusing them of charges under the IPC. With her complaint, she attached the CDRs of Vyas and other persons, as obtained from Vodafone by the then DCP of crime branch. On the basis of the CDRs, Borivali police registered an FIR, investigated the case and a trial is now pending in a Mumbai court.
 
 Seeking a CBI probe, Vyas questioned how Gujarat police was authorized to get his CDRs before Maharashtra police had even registered an FIR. He contended that this was a clear case of illegally favouring the wife of a high-ranking IPS officer, and violated his constitutional rights to privacy.
 
 Vyas raised the issue of territorial jurisdiction of Gujarat police and stated that police’s action is in violation of Article 12 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Article 17 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, to which India is a party.
 
 After hearing Vyas’s case, Justice   turned down the petition by asking him to agitate the issue before the trial court in Mumbai on the basis of evidence.
 
 In 2013, two PILs in Gujarat high court accused the state police of illegally intercepting calls and obtaining call details.
 
