BHOPAL: In a major development for improving the quality of education in the state, the performance of school teachers would now be evaluated based on how they teach and the results their students yield. It would be the main criteria for their promotion.

 The move is one of the major reforms in school education department of Madhya Pradesh for the new academic session. Speaking to TOI, secretary, school education,   said the idea is to link academic performance of students, generally used by   to promote teachers. She said chief minister   was keen to make teachers accountable to the students whose feedback would be taken into account to assess teachers’ performance. The appraisal scores will be calculated on the basis of quality teaching, teachers’ attendance, efforts, co-curricular and evaluation-related activities, academic record, besides student performance. According to officials, the move aims to create a transparent mechanism where teachers would also be rewarded for performing well. As the move may face resistance from the teaching fraternity, the issue is being examined from all angles. “We are also looking for a positive change in terms of enrolment and reducing dropout rate through this step. When teachers will be serious about their role, students will automatically get the sense of responsibility,” said the secretary.
 
 On monitoring teachers’ performance, Mukherji said all the arrangements would be made accordingly. The government would be setting up a review mechanism to judge the performance of teachers in classroom. With this decision, teachers will have to work hard on maintaining students’ performance. In Madhya Pradesh, quality of school education has not shown any significant improvement over the years. Though a lot of efforts were made by government in previous years, but to no avail.
 
 Recently, the annual status of education report (ASER) 2016 revealed the dismal scenario of school education in the state. Even as the state government claims to focus on developing reading habits among children by coming up with campaigns like ‘Mil Banche’, ASER revealed that half of the students in Class I can’t even read basic letters of Hindi. The survey shows variation in children’s reading levels within a given grade. Among children in Class III, over 66 per cent students cannot even read the letters, while 82.4 per cent cannot read words.
 
