Major stakes for Goa in last month’s historic diplomatic breakthrough, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi became the first Indian head of state to visit Portugal for a bilateral trip (Atal Bihari Vajpayee briefly stopped over in 2000 to attend a European Union conference). New ground was broken in multiple ways for both countries, most remarkably when Modi handed his counterpart, Antonio Costa, his official Overseas Citizen of India card, saying “Prime Minister   represents the best of the Indian diaspora across the world.”

 The evident personal warmth between the European and Indian prime ministers heralds a stunning twist to the very long history that connects Portugal and India with Goa, its centrepiece. Less than six decades have expired since Jawaharlal Nehru authorised the military takeover of the last enclave of European colonialism in the subcontinent, saying “Goa is an ugly pimple on the fair face of India.” It was a crushing blow for the dictator, Salazar, whose final orders (thankfully disobeyed) were to destroy the state’s infrastructure, and fight till the last Portuguese soldier was sacrificed.
 
 It was only after Portugal itself was liberated from authoritarianism by the whirlwind 1974 Carnation Revolution that a slow rapprochement with India could begin. That connection has now risen to an altogether unforeseen degree of partnership, thanks to the rise of Antonio Costa, in tandem with Narendra Modi’s avid pursuit of new diplomatic engagements.
 
 Carnegie India’s Constantino Xavier explains, “For India, the need to balance China means that it must craft tailored strategies for small states like Portugal, in order to explore its advantage in Africa and the Portuguese-speaking world. This is Modi’s new ‘niche diplomacy’ reaching out to small states that have heretofore been absent from Delhi’s foreign policy horizon.”
 
 It is hard to predict how personal chemistry will spark on the international stage. On paper, it might seem that the committed socialist Costa would not have much in common with corporate-friendly rightist Modi. But the two men have clearly hit it off, beaming with evident pleasure in each other’s company. It is understood they speak freely with each other in accented English, without the inconvenience of interpreters. But it’s not just words, in Antonio Costa the Indian prime minister has finally met his equal as champion hugger. The two men clinch often, with feeling.
 
 Of course these individual sparks only matter because India and Portugal have powerful allied interests. India needs to build strong ties with the EU to maintain vital economic growth – and Portugal under Costa is one readymade bridge to help that happen. The flip side of the equation is equally compelling. Carnegie’s Xavier says, “Portugal’s interest is to attract Indian investments in order to overcome years of recession, and an economy that remains structurally unable to compete with the new emerging powers.” Thus, the highly skilled Modi and Costa are only recognising the obvious. Huge advantages could accrue to their countries – and their own political careers – via close 21st century ties between Delhi and Lisbon.
 
 In many ways, this new chapter in Indo-Portuguese relations is long overdue, because it is being built anew on such tenacious roots. Goa is living evidence of the consequential impact of 451 years of Lusitanian presence in India, which generated a beautiful and unique syncretic culture with profound expression in music, architecture, cuisine and the arts. And Portugal itself was entirely remade in contact with India, an experience that still throbs at the very heart of its national identity. The greatest national heroes, Vasco da Gama and Luis de Camoes, both gained their reputations due to India’s centrality in the ‘Age of Discoveries’.
 
 Even as New Delhi and Lisbon accelerate into a brave new world of close ties, there is the possibility Goa will be left outside, despite every advantage and immense suitability, as the locus for bilateral co-operation. This is because of understandable ambivalence and unease from Goans who can easily recall the considerable negative effects of Portuguese colonial dictatorship in their homeland. Many freedom fighters are still alive, who suffered jail and vicious beatings in retaliation for brave acts of conscience. Their sacrifices deserve lasting respect and recognition, and no one should take them for granted
 
 But times do change, and eventually, so can nations. Here it is important to note the prime minister of Portugal’s father, the ferociously anti-colonial (and Goa’s own) novelist Orlando da Costa was himself repeatedly arrested and jailed by the Salazar government. This is a reminder that the country which jailed him is quite different from the country that voted his son into power. The Konkani aphorism ‘Te poder gele, ani te unde gele’ is highly apt here.
 
 The colonisers have gone forever, and the Portuguese are no longer that people. Costa is rightly recognised by Modi as a natural ally and partner. It’s a great development for Portugal and India, and especially for Goa.
 
 The writer is a photographer and a widely published columnist. Views expressed are personal.
 
 
