Mumbai: French drinks giant   saw India edge past China to emerge as its second largest market by value and only behind the United States during the last financial year. The maker of  ,   and   also counted India as the third most profitable market displacing France — a development that could boost the country’s lackadaisical profile in alcoholic beverage industry globally.

 The Indian unit of Pernod Ricard has led the company’s volume charts for a while with the two Indian whiskies,   and  , being the largest selling brands. But then, the leading Indian brands tend to dominate the volume sales given that they operate in the world’s largest mass market for whiskies.
 
 A 9% sales drop in China narrowly catapulted India to the second slot during the fiscal ended June 2016. During the year, India net sales vaulted 12% to nearly Rs 7,500 crore, or about $1.2 billion. The gross sales for the period topped Rs 12,000 crore. The local unit’s profit before tax rose 23% to around Rs 1,800 crore, or $280 million, going past France, according to figures reviewed by this newspaper. The world’s second largest spirits company does not disclose sales and profit numbers for individual markets.
 
 “We sustained a strong financial performance last year due to the dynamism of our portfolio, tight management of resources and operational efficiency initiatives. We confirm our leadership in the premium local and international brands on the back of a consistent strategy delivered by a strong team,” Guillaume Girard-Reydet, managing director, Pernod Ricard India, told TOI. He, however, cautioned that several adverse regulatory changes and trade bans in recent months have posed difficult growth environment for the spirits industry.
 
 “In the past, Pernod Ricard India has demonstrated good resilience. But, going forward, it will be challenging for the industry as a whole to continue with the same level of performance in the short term,” Guillaume added. Interestingly, the domestic unit benefited from the Chinese government’s anti-corruption drive, which toppled the luxury goods and premium drinks sales in the country in recent years. China has been a showpiece market for Pernod Ricard where its cognac brand   has a strong, very profitable footprint.
 
 Pernod Ricard has built three blockbuster delux-to-premium local whiskies — Blender’s Pride, Royal Stag and Imperial Blue — over the past two decades, turning it into India’s most profitable liquor company. “The sustained focus on whisky, the core segment of Indian liquor market, operating largely in premium space and building local brands has worked well for the company,” said Sanjay Jain, director, Taj Capital, an investment advisory firm. Whisky sales account for two-thirds of the Indian liquor consumption, estimated at 324 million cases annually, and account for a bulk of the industry’s profit pool, constantly under siege in a heavily regulated business.
 
 India’s rising prominence has seen several executives from the local unit being tapped for overseas postings in recent past. This has also prompted the Paris headquarters to seriously pursue developing business for Indian whiskies in other emerging markets by taking direct charge of the intellectual property and brand building efforts in African, South East Asian and Central American countries. 
 
 The domestic unit has steadily pipped mature, European markets to emerge as the fifth largest market in 2011, and outpaced the likes of Spain and France since then.
 
 
