NEW DELHI: BJP’s landslide win in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand has come as a big boost to the Delhi unit of the party ahead of the municipal polls. Confident of winning 202 out of 272 wards, it will soon launch ‘Mission-202’ in view of the civic election scheduled for next month. 

 Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari, who aggressively campaigned in Uttar Pradesh, holding nearly 107 rallies, attributed his party’s success to the strong leadership, tough decisions like demonetisation taken by the Modi government and micro-management by BJP president Amit Shah. “This is a reflection of people’s growing support to the Modi government’s pro-poor policies and decisions like demonetisation. We hope for a similar result in Delhi and our aim is to win 202 seats,” said Tiwari. He informed that the candidate selection process would start soon. 
 
 AAP’s defeat in Punjab and no-show in Goa has given BJP confidence of retaining its turf despite strong anti-incumbency since it has not been able to do much work despite being in power in the corporations for a decade. “People of Punjab and Goa have rejected their (AAP) politics. They have seen how   and his party used Delhi as a stepping stone to expand its political footprint in the country. Development work had come to a standstill as the party abandoned Delhi for political gains,” said Tiwari.
 
 He said that the upcoming municipal polls would be a “referendum on AAP government’s performance”. And BJP was going to attack the AAP government for its failure to deliver on its promises. “Delhi has gone back 10 years under AAP’s rule. Development has taken a back seat. People know that he (Kejriwal) is an ‘ad master’. But he has nothing concrete to show,” claimed Tiwari.
 
 BJP has been under pressure ever since AAP assumed office in February 2015. The ruling party in the corporations has not been able to do much work in the past two years due to a financial crunch. North and east corporations are struggling to pay salaries to their employees. In the past two years, the corporations have witnessed nearly five strikes by sanitation workers due to non-payment of salaries. The AAP government’s decision not to implement the recommendations of the 4th Delhi Finance Commission had just made things difficult for the cash-strapped civic bodies.
 
 While BJP’s string of victories post-demonetisation has boosted the morale of the party cadre, its Delhi unit has a lot to do. It has to organise its workers in slums and unauthorised colonies, which are considered AAP strongholds. Post delimitation, the number of wards in assembly constituencies with high percentage of slums and unauthorised colonies has increased. Apart from this, unlike Congress and AAP, BJP’s candidate selection process has not gathered momentum. “While things look in our favour, we need to aggressively start campaigning on the ground,” said a senior BJP member. 
 
 
