VADODARA: The   ( ) on Tuesday filed a   against 15 persons in connection with the   of gangster Mukesh Harjani, who was gunned down in Harni on October 20.

 Eight of these have already been arrested while seven are absconding. The DCB threw up a major surprise by naming some big guns associated with the liquor trade. The police have declared seven persons, including Vinod   alias Viju Sindhi as absconding. 
 
 Cops have said that Sunil alias Ado Ramani, Lalchand Khanani alias Lalu Sindhi, Kailash Maheshwari alias Kailash Rathi, Jogindrapal alias Fauji Sharma, Dilip Prajapati alias Dilip Marwadi and Dalbir Singh also had role in Harjani’s murder. 
 
 Though the chargesheet does not give details about their role, a police official closely involved with the probe said that all were bootleggers who were operating in the state.
 
 Rathi, Sharma and Prajapati have high stakes in this illicit business and their names cropped up repeatedly as suppliers of liquor to other bootleggers.
 
 “After Harjani was acquitted in the Chacko murder case, he had a meeting in Banswada in Rajasthan. Harjani had declared that he would be heading the liquor business in Gujarat. The six persons were supporters of Udhwani and they were angered by Harjani’s self proclamation,” said the official.
 
 The police have so far arrested Mohammed Akbar Ghausi, Rajeshkumar alias Raju Patel, Omprakash alias Omi Punjabi, Anil alias Anthony Gangwani, Sanjay alias Rx Dave, Salim alias Khatiyo Sheikh, Kalpesh alias Kachhiyo Patel and Bharatsinh alias Arjun Baria in the case.
 
 The chargesheet also mentions details about 40 panch and 35 witnesses.
 
 As per the chargesheet, Udhwani and Kalpesh had masterminded the murder while Ghausi, Sheikh, Dave and Gangwani had fired at Harjani. Udhwani had called Harjani for a party at the house of Kamla Nawani in Vrindawan Township in Harni and was informing Kalpesh and four other shooters, who were waiting below Nawani’s house, about Harjani’s movements.
 
 Harjani had also insulted Udhwani, Gangwani and Kalpesh and was extorting money from them. Cops said that Harjani already had issues with Kalpesh in connection with Chacko’s murder. Harjani had, therefore, asked Dave to murder Kalpesh but he refused. DCB said that Harjani had then threatened Dave with life and abduct his son.
 
 The chargesheet also mentions role of Rajesh, Punjabi and Baria in the case. Rajesh had procured two sim cards using fake documents from Punjabi. Baria, the former driver of Kalpesh, had dropped Sheikh at Vrindavan Township and later taken Sheikh, Ghausi and Gangwani to Godhra railway station.
 
