NEW DELHI: Veteran   leader Yashwant Sinha’s sharp attack on the government, and finance minister   in particular, over the “mess in the economy” set off a political storm with the opposition hailing his remarks as a vindication of its criticism.

  
  .
 
 Sinha’s critical article published in The Indian Express, titled ‘I need to speak up now’, claimed he was airing concerns of several BJP leaders worried by a slide in the economy and was replete with criticism of Jaitley’s handling of economic challenges.
 
 Sinha also took swipes at BJP chief  , and more indirectly at PM  .
 
 "The PM claims he has seen poverty from close quarters. His finance minister is working overtime to make sure that all Indians also see it from equally close quarters,” Sinha said in his article. He warned that the economic situation would not correct itself before the 2019 elections and said the economy was headed for a hard landing, implying that BJP’s re-election prospects were in jeopardy.
 
 
  
 
 Congress, which has seen slowing growth as an opportunity to attack the government, swiftly welcomed Sinha’s remarks to claim vindication.
 
 Former finance minister 
  it was rare for the opposition and a leader from the ruling party to be on the same page and asserted that Sinha had reiterated what Congress had been saying for 18 months and also claimed that BJP MPs were privately worried.
 
 The government, however, vehemently rejected Sinha’s comments and railway minister Piyush Goyal said India was a pivot of the world economy and 
  in the face of criticism and stick to measures that curbed black money and encouraged ruled-based behaviour such as tax compliance.
 
 Sinha’s son Jayant, who is minister of state for civil aviation, also rebutted the criticism, and said conclusions drawn from a narrow set of facts simply missed the fundamental structural reforms transforming the economy. “We are creating a robust new economy that will power longterm growth and job creation,” Jayant said.
 
