NAGPUR: The   (ED) has attached assets worth over Rs 97 crore of two companies promoted by  . On Tuesday, ED, which has registered a case under   (PMLA) against Daga and two others, made a provisional attachment of assets belonging to M/s BS Ispat. The assets worth Rs78 crore include promoters’ personal properties too. In a separate development involving a different company — M/s Central Collieries also run by Daga-- ED attached another set of assets worth Rs17.7 crore on Wednesday. 

 BS Ispat has been promoted by a trio of city businessmen Daga,  . Both the cases are basically related to the alleged coal block allocation scam of UPA regime investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigations (CBI). 
 
 This is the third city-based company named in   whose assets have been attached. Last month ED attached properties worth Rs25 crore of Grace Industries headed by Mukesh Gupta. In BS Ispat, the promoters have been accused of misrepresenting facts for securing allocation of two coal blocks in Chandrapur district. After getting the blocks, the three promoters sold entire holding in BS Ispat to Oriental Castings Ltd (OCL) gaining huge profits. Technically, the company that was allotted the coal block remained the same on paper but the shareholders changed. TOI had reported the matter on February 22, 2012.
 
 ED investigation pegged the gains out of the deal at Rs60 crore. Gains from allegedly illegal mining of coal have been fixed at Rs18 crore. The assets seized in this case include agricultural land, industrial plot, mutual funds and bank deposits. The major assets include mutual funds worth over Rs15 crore, banks deposits of Rs14 crore and investment in shares of other unlisted companies worth Rs11.65 crore.
 
 Apart from assets in the company’s name, personal property worth Rs30 crore belonging to Dagas and Rs15 crore each to Agrawal and Sardas were also attached.
 
 This was followed by action on Central Collieries Ltd, the company in which Daga is the promoter. A case of misrepresentation of facts and illegal sale of coal has been registered against the company. Central Collieries is alleged to have got a coal block allocation even before it was incorporated. The coal mined through the block was sold in open market instead of captive use.
 
 The Rs17.7 crore assets seized in this case include a Rs4 crore flat in Kolkata and land at Bhadravati taluka of Chandrapur worth Rs9 crore.
 
 A company spokesperson said the move would be challenged at all levels. In BS Ispat case, one of the defence taken by the company is that Daga, whose assets have been seized, has not been named in the CBI FIR. Normally ED takes over investigation on the basis of CBI probe which has not nailed Daga yet. About Central Collieries, the company says the sale of coal for which it has been charged, took place in 2004. That is one year before the PMLA Act came into force. The law cannot be enforced in retrospect, the spokesperson said. 
 
