Nidhi.Bhardwaj@timesgroup.com

 Ludhiana: In a bid to recover pending dues, civic officials will crack down on   defaulters since 2014-15, when the government replaced house tax with property tax. Unlike the usual practice, wherein the MC would identify defaulters of the current year, the civic body will stress on recovery of the entire period a person has defaulted. Property tax branch officials said this will help recover the entire tax amount pending as defaulters will have to clear the entire amount once they fall into the MC net. 
 
 Officials said 52,338 defaulters have not paid their property tax amount since 2014-15 and the number is increasing with each passing year. Notices have been issued to defaulters in a few zones. 
 
 Officials, on condition of anonymity, said they have served recovery notices on defaulters after giving them a week to clear pending dues. After one week, officials will serve another notice on those who fail to respond, saying that the MC will attach their property, which would be sealed and auctioned by the department to recover the amount. 
 
 MC Commissioner Jaskiran Singh said the civic body is launching a recovery drive to nab property tax defaulters. “Tax recovery is a must for the MC to serve the public. People should understand their responsibility and make payments to the department,” he said. 
 
 In the proposed budget this year, civic officials fixed an annual target of Rs 80 crore from property tax and Rs 55 crore from water and sewerage dues. But the state government has raised the amount of these targets to Rs 100 crore under both heads. Concerned about the new targets, the MC decided to rein in old defaulters as well. 
 
 Officials are stressing on nabbing defaulters from the beginning as once they pay tax from the first year, they will have to clear dues of subsequent years as well, an official said. 
 
 Box: Avail 10% tax rebate till Sept 30
 
 MC officials are recovering property tax for the 2017-18 financial year. Residents can avail 10% rebate in the total tax amount by paying tax before September 30. There will be no rebate after September 30. 
 
 
