NOIDA: The final lists of candidates contesting for the   federation’s executive committee, which will be held on July 30, were declared on Friday. 

 The two groups contesting the Federation of   Residents Welfare Associations (FONRWA) elections, which declared their 21 member panellists each for the executive committee, include one team led by current federation president N P Singh, who is contesting the election yet again and the other team led by Sukhdev Sharma, RWA president, Rajat Vihar, Pocket C, Sector 62, who is contesting the post of federation president for the first time.
 
 While N P Singh (who is RWA president, Sector 35) is standing for the post of FONRWA president again, his team includes many old hands such as A N Dhawan, who is contesting again for the post of secretary general, Rajendra Shukla, Suresh Tiwari and K K Jain are contesting for the post of senior vice-president yet again.
 
 Meanwhile, Sharma has a fairly new panel with K Lal, (currently RWA president, Sector 23) for the post of secretary general, O P Yadav contesting for the post of treasurer, Gajendra Bansal, Girish Chandra Sharma and Ms Vimlesh Sharma etc are standing for the post of senior vice-president.
 
 While Singh has the support of a majority of RWAs which want the incumbent team to continue to deal with all the work that is pending with the Noida Authority and district administration, Sharma and his team aim to bring in new ideas and focus on newer members and their grouses.
 
 “We still have a lot of pending work to finish such as making Noida property freehold, a representation in the Noida Authority board, a commissionerate system for the city as well as a municipal function to be handled by a separate department,” said N P Singh who, after filing his nomination candidature on Friday, claimed that making the DND flyway toll-free was the biggest victory of his tenure as president.
 
 Sharma, meanwhile, wants that newer members be given a chance and aims to make Noida a cleaner and greener city with overall development. “We have presented our candidates for all 21 posts of the executive committee and are looking forward to the elections,” Sharma said.
 
 The FONRWA elections are held every two years where presidents and general secretaries of all RWAs in the city are eligible to vote. This year, a total of 175 votes are expected to be cast including those of RWA representatives, life members and founder-members for the two panels in the contest.
 
 
