BENGALURU: When former Australian skipper   landed here a couple of days ago, he had an auto-rickshaw ride and shopping on his wishlist. While he enjoyed his 'tuk-tuk' ride, shopping had to be abandoned after he was mobbed by fans. But the 35-year-old is not complaining as he enjoys his time in the city, where his Test cricket journey began. 

 As a 23-year-old -known as pup in the team-with his ballet dancer-like footwork, Clarke became the first Australian to score a Test century on debut at the Chinnaswamy Stadium in 2004. In an exclusive interview, Clarke, who is here in the role of a commentator, spoke at length about his debut, pitches,   and the Australian team.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 It is special to be back in Bangalore because I have so many fond memories here. To walk into the ground will be special. I'm looking forward to walking down to the pitch and enjoying the feel of being back at the place where it all started for me.
 
 
 
 
 He is a superstar. He reminds me so much of Sachin and there are not too many people who remind you of him. I like Virat's leadership style. He is an aggressive captain and looks to win, take wickets and score runs. I liked the way he spoke after the Pune Test. He accepts he is accountable as captain. He is a wonderful guy and a tough cricketer. I enjoyed playing against him because he has a lot of Australian in him; the fight, the stubbornness. I had that as an Australian captain. His leadership will only get better because he has his own style which he is confident of.
 
 
 
 
 The most important relationship in a cricket team is that of a captain and coach. I think Virat and Anil get along very well. Anil respects Virat as the man in charge and they support and complement each other. Anil was a great player and given the comfort level he shares with Virat and the team, he is doing very well.
 
 
 
 
 Steve's captaincy and the team's performance over the past 12 months has been a roller-coaster ride of victories and defeats. All along one thing Steve has done is to continue performing. It is a wonderful sign because he is leading from the front.
 
 
 
 
 Pune was a tough wicket to play on. It reminded me of Mumbai (in 2004). For the ball to turn so much on the first day, it was a tough pitch for batting. You needed to have a lot of luck if you needed to make runs on that pitch. Anytime a Test match is over in three days, the pitch has a big role to play, especially when the two sides are good and skillful batting units. So, if the pitch is half-decent they will find ways to make runs.
 
 
 
 
 I think the Australians are a lot more confident than they were when they first arrived. Steven Smith and his men started off as underdogs: It will also give them a lot of confidence to adjust to the conditions. But, they are also respectful enough to know that India are a really good team and you are playing them in their back yard.
 
