Greater Noida: Three   of a   of five who had robbed two collection agents of Rs 16 lakh here on Monday, were arrested after an   in   on Saturday.

 One of the accused, Bhura (24), was shot in the leg while two of his accomplices, Kapil (26) and Dinesh (25), did not suffer bullet injuries in the exchange of fire.
 
 Two other members of the gang managed to flee the spot and they have not been identified. Police said all the five criminals were natives of Bulandshahr and have been living in a rented accommodation in Sector Sigma 1.
 
 On Monday, the criminals had robbed two collection agents — Anuj and Neeraj — of Rs 16 lakh in Swarn Nagri,  , when they were going on a bike to deposit the money in a bank. The miscreants came on two bikes — a TVS Apache and a TVS Sports — and made off with the money after threatening them with a gun.
 
 After being informed of the robbery, the police launched a search for the criminals through electronic and manual surveillance. SSP Love Kumar said on Saturday the police got a tip-off about presence of criminals in a house No. D-410 in Sigma 1. “A police team conducted a raid on the premises in the morning and the miscreants tried to flee the spot after opening fire at the police party,” he said.
 
 “The police returned fire and one miscreant received two bullet injuries to his right leg. Two of his accomplices were also arrested while two others managed to escape,” the SSP said.
 
 During the encounter, a police constable sprained his ankle. “None of the police officers suffered a bullet injury,” said Amit Kishore Shrivastava, circle officer-1, Greater Noida.
 
 The police recovered Rs 4.20 lakh, two motorcycles, two country-made revolvers, one knife and four live cartridges from their possession. The criminals admitted their involvement in robbing the collection agents. They said they were trying to identify and question the houseowner who had rented out his premises to the five accused.
 
 “We have already registered a case of armed robbery against them at the Kasna police station. They were presented in the court and sent to judicial custody,” SP (rural) Suniti said. 
 
 
