New Delhi: The increase in   of Delhi   has got commuters up in arms. While riders said the   was steep — a substantial 50% — transport exports too said the hike might not be the best news for public transport in the city.

  of the ITDP said, “Small hikes may be considered at regular intervals to keep pace with inflation, but the fares should also be competitive. Otherwise, people tend to shift to personal motor vehicles.” Gadepelli cited the example of Bangalore, which recently reduced bus fares even as it is augmenting the fleet for more passengers.
 
 Amit Bhatt of Embarq, another transport think-tank, was also of the view that increasing the Metro fares may not be the answer. “We should follow the Latin American example of technical-versus-user fare for public transport. Technical fare is the average cost of transporting one passenger while user fare is average cost that an agency can charge for transporting one passenger,” explained Bhatt. “This method is transparent and helps manage finance or subsidy better, also, it forces transit agencies to more accountable,” said Bhatt.
 
 According to  , “Delhi Metro, while successful by Indian standards, has relatively low ridership per km compared to its peers worldwide.” Gadepelli feels that rather than expanding the system to new low demand corridors at significant expense, Delhi must make an earnest attempt to create a complementary high quality MetroBus system that can service low-to-medium-demand corridors more effectively at a lower cost.
 
 The huge jump in fares has certainly got several riders riled. Ritesh Dewan of the Delhi residents’ forum said, “Delhi and the rest of NCR lacks reliable public transport except the Metro. The steep hike announced by   will affect my monthly budget. They should improve the public transport and make it more affordable.”
 
 Gadepelli agrees. “Government must consider the overall cost of transport to the exchequer. It would spend less on the whole by expanding high-quality public transport while retaining low fares through financial assistance,” she said.
 
