GANDHINAGAR:   staged protests against the BJP government inside and outside the state assembly over the Naliya sex scandal involving several BJP leaders. 

 After the three-day long Naliya (Kutch) to Gandhinagar yatra, Gujarat Congress president Bharatsinh Solanki with other senior leaders and workers tried to gherao the assembly but they were detained by police. 
 
  Leader of opposition   and other MLAs wore black clothes to the house and protested during and after the governor’s speech. They were suspended for the day by speaker Raman Vora. The Congress MLAs had rushed into the well of the house and at the speaker’s chair.
 
 Gujarat Congress president Bharatsinh Solanki, who led the three-day, ‘Beti Bachao Yatra’ from Naliya to Gandhinagar and was detained by state police while trying to gherao the assembly, said that BJP has become the ‘Balatkari Janata Party’ (BJP) in the state. 
 
 “BJP leaders and workers in Gujarat have become so fearless that they now run Naliya-type sex rackets and exploit poor women. We demand narco tests of all the accused. It is possible that BJP leaders in Gandhinagar and Delhi are also involved. BJP did not stop at corruption like Sujalam Sufalam worth thousands of crores and the Rs 22,000 crore GSPC scam and are now involved in the Naliya sex scandal. The BJP’s real face has been exposed now. Instead of doing justice to the survivors they attacked us at Naliya which shows their disrespect for the survivors. We will not stop raising our voice for justice. We will represent before the President of India and organize a dharna at Jantar Mantar in New Delhi to get justice for the Naliya survivors,” Solanki said. 
 
  said that, “Our MLAs, party president and I met the governor and requested him to ask the state government to conduct a judicial inquiry into the Naliya sex scandal involving BJP leaders. However, today there was no mention of action on the Naliya incident, so we protested in the house during the governor’s speech. We demanded a debate on the issue in the house but were not allowed it, so we protested by wearing black clothes.”
 
