SHIMLA: After   attached the property of chief minister   in Delhi, in Himachal Pradesh, vigilance bureau too has stepped up probe against leader of opposition   in the matter related to his alleged properties within and outside the state.

 While a vigilance bureau team has gone to Punjab to gather information about property, BJP has accused the state government of vendetta politics and has demanded Virbhadra’s resignation. Sources said that a special vigilance team has gone to Punjab to collect information. 
 
 In the past, reminders sent by vigilance bureau to its Punjab counterpart had failed to get positive response but after change of regime, the team hopes to get the desired information, they said. On basis of a complained filed by a Dharamshala-based advocate Vinay Sharma, vigilance bureau has started the investigation. Complainant had alleged that Dhumal and his family owns properties within and outside Himachal Pradesh.
 
 Initially, the state government had not ruled out the possibility of handing over probe to CBI but later, the case was handed over to the vigilance bureau. Dhumal has already provided details of his property to vigilance bureau last year and before that, he had written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting that his properties should be probed through sitting judge of the Supreme Court or CBI . He also asked to probe properties of all others present and former chief ministers of Himachal Pradesh.
 
 BJP leaders said that seeing Enforcement Directorate tightening noose, Virbhadra Singh is taking revenge. They said that disproportionate assets case was registered against Virbhadra Singh in UPA regime and BJP has nothing to do with it. 
 
 Addressing mediapersons in Shimla on Wednesday, BJP’s chief spokesperson   said that the state government is on “a ventilator and battery of renowned lawyers are providing oxygen to it”. He said that by hook or crook, Virbhadra Singh is trying to save himself. He suggested that Virbhadra Singh should dissolve the assembly and opt for fresh elections.
 
 He said that first, CBI raided residence of Virbhadra Singh and now, it has filed a chargesheet against him in the court but it is surprising that Congress leadership has not taken any action against him. He said after winning byelections on Bhoranj assembly, BJP would reveal its strategy.
 
