NEW DELHI: The online admission process for private schools on public land kicked off on Tuesday, and   are wary of how the schools are calculating the   range under various brackets. While some schools have displayed a map on their websites, some have to be approached for clarification, while others only allowed parents to type in their area details, not giving out any formula for calculation.

 The directorate of education, in a circular issued on Monday, had instructed schools to clearly mention the areas that come under specific distance brackets. “All schools shall also publicise the distance range and manner of admission on their notice board/ website, as notified on January 7,” reads the circular.
 
 However, parents who have started the admission process claim they are still in the blind about the distance criteria for schools.  , a parent living in Shakarpur, said while filling up the applications in a school in her area, she was asked just to type in her address and choose the distance option in which she falls, but was given no list or map which marked the areas coming under the neighbourhood brackets. 
 
 “Thousands of parents will apply. I have calculated the distance using the navigation on Google maps and Uber. But I don’t know how the school’s calculation process. What if my application is rejected because of this detail?” she said. 
 
 Similarly, Ramanand Mittal, a parent living in Dwarka, said he had to go to schools personally to get clarity on the issue. “Though the admission process is online, I had to go to a school with queries and they showed me a black and white A4 sheet with concurrent circles showing the area division. Why haven’t they put it up on the website?” he said. Another school’s application only asked for his area of residence, and left it at that. According to Mittal, the directorate should not have left this decision on the schools, because it gives them another way to manipulate the process. 
 
 Senior government officials told TOI that the complaints have been noted, and a new set of guidelines to address the matter will be issued in a few days. 
 
 
