CHANDIGARH: Escalating his attack on Punjab's biggest cable firm  , local bodies minister   on Thursday accused the company of evading Rs 2,600 crore service tax during the past 10 years.
 
 This tax was to be collected from both multi-service operators (MSOs) and local cable operators (LCOs) for providing cable television network service to more than 22.5 lakh households in Punjab by the central excise and service tax commissionerate between 2008 and 2012, claimed Sidhu, the three-time MP.
 
 The minister claimed that Fastway, a Ludhiana-based firm, collected annual TV subscription charges worth Rs 14,000 crore in Punjab. This included existing service tax rate of 13-14% charged by the local cable operators (LCOs) who deposited that money into 300-odd bank accounts operated by the Fastway, he added.
 
 According to July 1, 2017, reply by the central excise to Sidhu, the department has admitted that Fastway's records are under scrutiny and investigation. It has also said that 12 firms of the group across Punjab are being probed for 107 audit objections.
 
 The department, which comes directly under the Union government, however has claimed that so far Rs 32.42 crore service tax evasion was found by the Fastway directly and only Rs 10.29 crore was recovered by them.
 
 "Show cause notices proposing recovery of amounts evaded have already been issued to above companies," says the letter by  , chief commissioner, central excise, Chandigarh.
 
 The minister, however, said central excise department sent a show-cause notice for only Rs 179 crore instead of Rs 2,600 crore for the alleged tax evasion in 2012.
 
 A former employee of the central excise department S L  , who was accompanying Sidhu, said even the purpose of the show-cause notice was only to "ensure to drop proceedings" and not slap penalty on the Fastway by skipping section 73A provisions of the Tax Recovery Act.
 
 Both Sidhu and Goyal also sought verification of the actual number of LCOs registered with the central excise department.
 
 "There are 8,000 local cable operators and out of them 6,500 are operated by the Fastway in Punjab. The company has admitted that several times," they added.
 
 Reacting to the charges, managing director of   said the "department has also sent out notices to the LCOs separately. We have always followed law. If there are objections, we will continue to fulfil the legal provisions of all Acts. There are no current outstandings as far as service tax is concerned. I can't say about other LCOs. I have not approached the chief minister on this issue so far but I can't say about future."
 
 Punjab chief minister Captain  , in a public statement issued after Sidhu's allegations, ruled out any censorship against "  (a group owned by SAD supremo  ) or any other cable or media organisation" and "action would be taken only if tax evasion is found true".
 
