I have this best friend I absolutely can't do without and share everything with her, but now a secret that I have kept from her is bothering me so much that I have lost my sleep over it! I met her boyfriend at a party and we sort of hung out together that night, but unfortunately we ended up in bed and now I don't know how to break the news to my friend. Though her boyfriend and I haven't got in touch after that embarrassing night, it's absolutely killing me. Please tell me how I break this news to my bestie?- 
  Hi, I appreciate your concern and your courage to share your secret here, but there is no other way to say it that you have made a mistake. As humans we all make mistakes, but it is important to confess it. You have confessed it here. It's time now to talk about this to your friend as well.

 You have now the opportunity to be a friend. Find the best opportunity and tell her the truth gracefully and let her decide after that, to forgive you or not. Maybe later she forgives you, but let that decision be on her.
 
 You will have to meet her alone and confess what happened, that would probably be the end of your relationship but it's better than living with the guilt all your life. The confession would probably help her get an insight of the relationship she has with her boyfriend too. Something that is much needed for your friend at this point in time.
 
 Please do keep in mind that things wont get okay even after she forgives you, it will take a lot of time for her to trust you, but because of the fear of losing your friendship don't keep a secret from your friend for life. I hope the confession is not the end of your relationship but if it is, I would suggest you to let your friend be for sometime, don't run after her to give further explanations, also I would suggest you to join some recreational activities or just keep yourself busy to fill in the void you would be facing after losing your friend.
 
 I hope you gather the courage to tell the truth, all the best!
 
 
 
 
 Want expert advice for your relationship? Send us an email at expertadvice.toi@gmail.com
 
