He is an enigma in his own party, always having blow-hot-blow-cold ties with the leadership. However, nobody can afford to ignore him. After lying low for nearly two years,  's firebrand   MP   is back in the reckoning, garnering spotlight and ample media footage for his fiery speeches in volatile western UP, which is hosting the   in the first two phases. 

 One may be his staunch follower, getting swayed by his rabid uttering, or hate him for the same reason, but nobody can remain neutral when this mahant of Gorakhshapeeth starts speaking from a dais. Probably identifying this 'USP' of his, the saffron leadership fished him out from its arsenal to unleash him in western UP to galavanize its 'sagging' campaign, says an analyst. "He was earlier given the charge of campaign in 2014 assembly bypolls, but after BJP's dismal show, he went in oblivion," he says.
 
 With election fever gripping the state, Yogi now has emerged as the most sought after campaigner in west UP, 15 districts of which went to poll in the first phase on February 11. He continues to be the favourite in phase II and phase III regions. The five-time MP, who has had several run-ins with the BJP leadership since 2002, when he openly opposed the candidature of Shiv Pratap Shukla, a four-time MLA and a minister in Rajnath Singh government, from Gorakhpur.
 
  When the BJP leadership didn't budge, he fielded Radha Mohan Das Agarwal as a Hindu Mahasabha candidate against Shukla. Despite leaders like Atal Bihari Vajpayee campaigning for Shukla, Yogi ensured Agarwal's victory. His clout now established, BJP leadership mended fences with Yogi. However, the truce was breeched at the time of 2007 elections when protesting against ticket distribution, Yogi announced to field 70 to 75 candidates in the region on Hindu Mahasabha tickets. He was placated again and since then, this love-hate relationship on one issue or the other has continued. 
 
 After a clean sweep in the highly polarised 2014 Lok Sabha polls, BJP leadership appointed him the star campaigner in by-elections for 11 assembly seats which fell vacant after BJP MLAs became MPs. Yogi openly raised contentious issues like 'love jihad' and SP government's 'minority appeasement policies' to replicate the LS elections show. However, this didn't help in the bypolls and Yogi went into oblivion.
 
 In these elections as well, his his name didn't figure in the list of UP BJP election committee. However, the party leadership soon realised that ignoring him in UP polls could be a risky affair. So, most candidates backed by him were accommodated and his name was included in the star campaigners' list.
 
  This time, party sources say, Yogi so far has proved to be the BJP's best bet in raking up issues like Ram temple, Kairana exodus, triple talaq and closure of abattoirs. He has already addressed around two dozen rallies in west UP, Braj and Awadh regions and continues to be in demand. 
 
 
