HYDERABAD:Another Saudi dream lies in a shambles. A 36-year-old woman from Kushaiguda in the city who had gone to the oil-rich country in the hope of shoring up her family's financial position, now regrets her decision and is desperate to return because of unbearable torture she is reportedly facing at the hands of her kafil. 

 So abject is the fate of Manjula, a mother of two children, that she is being made to kneel down in the blistering sun.
 The kafil is also reportedly burning her using hot iron rods on her legs and thighs ­ all because she wants to return to India unable to bear the torture.
 
 Horror-stricken and her voice choking, Manjula narrated her sufferings to her husband Ravi. “She has been threatened by the kafil that he wo uld rather send her body back to India than allow her to leave,“ a weeping Ravi told TOIon Friday from his Kushaiguda residence.
 
 He said his daughter Sujana and son   were spending sleepless nights worrying about Manjula. In conversation with his wife that Ravi recorded on his phone, Manjula appears distressed and thoroughly shaken.She pleads to be rescued.
 
 Ravi has urged the Telanga na government and external affairs minister   to rescue his wife from the clutches of the cruel employer.According to Ravi, an illegal agent, Sattar, had approached them and promised Manjula that she would get paid well if she went to Qatar. However, after being kept in   for three months, she was smuggled into   and kept in a house for work.
 
 “For the last five months, she has been crying and complaining about torture. She is saying that she is being threatened with death. I want my wife to be rescued,“ Ravi said.The family incurred some debts to fund the education of their children and wanted to get rid of the burden.
 
 Before going to the Gulf, Manjula had worked as a tailor and earned some money while Ravi works on a borewell vehicle. Though they toiled every day they barely managed to scratch a decent standard of living.
 
 “My children are in a terrible state of shock. At 2 in the night, sometimes my wife gives a missed call from another servant's phone in Saudi Arabia. She has to talk secretly . If the employer finds out she is making calls to us, she has a hell to pay,“ Ravi said.
 
