Bhubaneswar: As   crossed the finish line of the 400m hurdles, she fell on the ground, bowing to the tracks. Although the run had fetched her a silver medal, the satisfaction on her face was more than a second-place finish could possibly evoke.

 It was after two long years that the Kerala girl was competing at an international competition and had set a personal best timing of 57.22 seconds while bagging her first medal in  . Her feat at   here had also come as a fitting reply to the Athletics Federation of India (AFI) that had dropped her from the Rio Olympics 4x400m relay team and replaced her with Ashwini Akkunji in spite of her better timing and overall performance.
 
 “I was quite nervous before the incident as I was competing at this level after two years,” said Anu. “So clinching a medal here was a big relief. Bettering my personal best was a bonus.”
 
 Anu had bettered her previous best timing of 57.79 at the Federation Cup in Patiala in June this year. So now she had beaten her own mark twice in the space of a month. But it has not been easy going for the athlete who registered a case against the federation after her unceremonious departure last year. With the case still in progress, Anu has been training in Trivandrum with the coach of her choice, PB Jaikumar. Although it was her resistance to being coached at the national camp under a foreign coach that led to the whole episode, her medal achievement here has shown her improvement under Jaikumar.
 
 “There was a time after the Rio incident that I wanted to quit sports. But my family asked me to follow my dream and continue with the sport of my choice,” she said. “I am comfortable working under my coach and my timing is improving, too. Although the case is still in progress, I am concentrating more on my training.”
 
 Anu, who led the race for the first 300m, was beaten to the gold medal by Vietnam’s Nguyen Thi. “I like to chase and go for it in a late burst. Leading from the beginning is not something I’m comfortable with,” she explained, asked about the race. “Now, I am going to prepare for the Asian Games and would like to keep improving my timing.”
 
 Asked if she was happy with the facilities on offer in Trivandrum, Anu said: “There was a national camp for long jumpers in Trivandrum. So we had asked the federation to include a camp for us, too, alongside. But that request was not paid heed to.”
 
 So the hurdle runner will have to be content with getting the best from his chosen coach and let her comeback feat here help her keep improving.
 
 
