CHENNAI: It was a day of high drama in the  , with founding leader   charging that there was mystery and foul play in the death of former chief minister J Jay lalithaa, and senior party leaders K A Sengottaiyan and Panruti S Ramachandran (right) rubbishing the charges.Pandian (left) said on Tuesday the circumstances that led to t h e lead er's hospitalisation should be probed involving those at Veda Nilayam, Jayalalithaa's residence. “The hospital may cite the patient's right of privacy , but no one at home can take this defence,“ the leader said.

 The senior leader, an expert in criminology and forensic sciences, said there was secrecy maintained in the hospital. Detailing his attempts to check on the ailing leader during his visit to the hospital, Pandian said the Sasikala family took centre stage after the leader's death.“I found Sasikala wearing a jacket of James Bond and leading a procession of her family on the corridors. They had no tears and no wails,“ he said. About 150 office bearers, including ministers, stood numb near the ICU ward, but were not allowed to get a glimpse of the leader.
 
 Jayalalithaa had expelled the Sasikala clan in 2011, upon receiving specific intelligence reports that the family was hatching a conspiracy against her in Bengaluru as to who should become the next chief minister if the verdict in the disproportionate assets case went against the leader, Pandian said. However, the party leadership inducted Sasikala into the fold again months later, after the latter tendered an apology disowning her family .
 
 The former speaker of the TN legislative assembly alleged that Sasikala's family members were shareholders of a distillery unit that supplies liquor to state-run Tasmac, even during the DMK regime.
 
 Hours after Pandian made the allegations, senior AIADMK leaders Sengottaiyan and Ramachandran rubbished the charges. They told reporters at the party headquarters that Pandian was duty bound to produce evidence while casting doubts over the death of Jayalalithaa. They lambasted Pandian, saying he was never loyal to Jayalalithaa and had colluded with the DMK in filing criminal cases against her in 1996.
 
 “There is nothing amiss about the election of   as general secretary or as the legislature party leader,“ said Ramachandran.
 
 Admitting that Sasikala was elected as general secretary of the party in an emergency situation, Ramachandran said, “The bylaw which Pandian spoke about was introduced by our founder MGR to prevent expulsion of party leaders as it happened to him when he was in the DMK in 1972. We have not usurped powers of the general council members in appointing Sasikala as general secretary . Her appointment will be ratified.“
 
 The two leaders accused Pandian and his family of working against the party when it split in 1987, following the death of MGR.“Pandian did not help the party in getting back the `two leaves' symbol when the Election Commission froze it,“ said Sengottaiyan.
 
 
