NOIDA: Police have arrested two persons, one of them masqueraded himself as a woman, and shot dead a 28-year old woman over alleged   in  . The accused have been identified as   (38) and his accomplice Ashish (21), both native of Kanpur. Ranjeet had shot dead his estranged lover Kanchan (28) on August 16 and fled away on the bike driven by Ashish. Ranjeet had covered his face with a stole and also wore salwar-kameez to pretend himself as a woman.

 Arun Kumar Singh, SP (city) Noida, said that the Kanchan, a native of Raebareli had married a person named   of Lucknow in 2009. The couple lived together for two years and had a son. However, later they started living separately over some differences.
 
 Police said that Kanchan’s brother   was arrested in a petty crime and sent to jail three years ago. In the judicial custody he met the accused Ranjeet and became friends. Ranjeet later started visiting his house and came in contact with Kanchan.
 
 Later Ranjeet and Kanchan started live-in relations in Kanpur where he worked as a cable operator. However, last year Kanchan opted to exit from the relationship. She then befriended with a third person named Kunal, also a native of Kanpur.
 
 Kunal and Kanchan three months ago shifted to a rented flat in Sai Baba colony Salarpur village Noida. Police said that the accused Ranjeet started pressuring Kanchan to return to him, but she ignored.
 
 On August 16, Ranjeet and his friend Ashish reached Kanchan’s rented accommodation on a Bajaj Avenger bike. Ranjeet armed himself with a country-made gun and masqueraded as a woman with his attire. He entered Kanchan’s one room flat on the first floor while Ashish waited outside on the bike.
 
 The accused shot one bullet in her neck and quickly left the building. Fatally wounded Kanchan was rushed to Yatharth Hospital Sector 110 where she was declared brought dead.
 
 Hemwati, house owner, said that she went to the local market to buy some goods. After returning she found a huge crowd outside her house. The neighbours said that a masked woman had barged into Kanchan’s room and shot her dead.
 
 Later Kunal registered a case of murder against unknown persons in Sector 39 police station. Police said that they investigated the matter and found that the woman’s estrange lover Ranjeet was behind the murder. “We put him on surveillance and arrested him with an accomplice from Salarpur village on Saturday night,” said police. The accused admitted to have murdered the woman over love triangle.
 
 Police have recovered the motorcycle and gun used in the crime. “The two accused will be produced in court and sent to judicial custody on Monday,” said police.
 
