JAIPUR: Much before the  ,  , introduced the concept of   (CSR),   had voluntarily taken up initiatives to address   faced by disadvantaged sections of the society. But this changed dramatically after the Act mandated companies to spend 2% of their net profit for CSR. With resources now mobilized, the focus has shifted to efficiency and sustainability of these activities.

 In an effort to evolve a productive and sustainable model for CSR activities,   and ActionAid have undertaken a nationwide programme and are conducting a series of events on ‘Collective Social Responsibility’ by bringing together all stakeholders.
 
 “The idea is to enable discussions to understand the CSR landscape, learn from each other, identify existing gaps and challenges so that a collective vision can be created. CSR is seen as collective social responsibility where efforts of all players can be cohered and convergence worked out for holistic and sustainable change,” said Dipali Sharma, director, ActionAid, at the event on ‘Collective Social Responsibility’ in Jaipur.
 
 Finding a way forward was the objective and to achieve that the event deliberated on best practices, promoting CSR innovations, adopting a holistic approach and creating community linkages for long-term impact.
 
 Rajarshi Bhattacharjee, national head, health and wellness, Times Foundation, said, “The collaboration can help us to collectively come up with new ideas, build innovative CSR strategies and practices and establish mechanism for continually evolving partnerships. Many a time, companies with smaller corpus find it difficult to run a programme till the objectives are met. But with a collective approach, such handicaps can be removed.”
 
 In her speech, Anita Bhadel, minister for women and child development, Rajasthan, urged the stakeholders to identify the social and economic problems in rural communities where effective interventions can be made.
 
 Prof Aditya Shashtri, vice-chancellor of Banasthali Vidyapith; Hitesh Dhanuka of Dhanuka Group; Ajay Singha, advisor to FICCI; Col Pradeep Bhatnagar, former vice-chancellor of SJVU, were among others who participated in the event.
 
 
