LUCKNOW: Why did   recruited in UP Vidhan Sabha’s security miss the PETN? That’s probably because they were not trained to identity the highly explosive organic compound. “While police dogs in UP can easily identity explosives like RDX (Royal Demolition eXplosive or cyclonite), TNT (trinitrotoluene) or PEK (plastic or putty explosives), but they are poor with  ,” confessed an officer in the UP Police.

 Though officials in reserve police lines and Police Armed Constabulary (PAC) remain tight-lipped over the issue a handler with Government Railway Police (GRP) admitted that there was no material to practise. “As a part of their training, dogs should be made to practice regularly with new subtances and trained to identity higher explosives. But while RDX and TNT is usually available with UP Police, new materials like PETN are not,” he said.
 
 Sniffer dogs with UP police are trained at Border Security Force’s National Training Center at Tekanpur in MP for eight months. The first six months are dedicated to learn obedience while the remaining two go into specialised explosives training with practicals.
 
 But dogs have their limitations too. “The object to be sniffed has to be in their range. They need specialised training to master identification of items which emit low equilibrium vapour pressure, like PETN which create a perception that it’s an odourless explosive,” explained Anurag Mishra, life member Kennel Club of India.
 
 Another handler stated that the dogs in Lucknow are overburdened. There are eight dogs in the police lines — two of these are kept separate for the CM's security while other six are used in cases of murder, rape and dacoity, along with other heinous crimes. “They keep running from one place to another mainly in VIP duties,” he said, “and miss even the mandatory twice-a-week training.” 
 
 A handler in Railway Protection Force (RPF) said that dogs in UP police retire when they die. “Life senses of all living beings - be it humans or dogs, deteriorates with age. So there has to be a retirement age for dogs too. Many states like Karnataka are already following this practice,” he stated. 
 
 When asked to comment, inspector general, Lucknow range, J N Singh admitted the gaps. “We have to admit the problem to avert its repetition. There is no doubt that our dogs come from one of India’s best dog training centers, but there are no refresher trainings which is a must to help them sniff new explosives,” he told TOI. 
 
 (With inputs from Pathikrit Chakraborty)
 
