GANDHINAGAR:  , the  , rained heavily on the second day of the coveted   at Mahatma Mandir on Wednesday as Indian corporates, multinationals, educational institutions and state-run enterprises pledged over Rs 20 lakh crore. The amount is likely to cross Rs 30 lakh croremark on the concluding day on Thursday  , mining and minerals, chemicals, steel, urban infrastructure, petroleum and petrochemicals, renewable energy , automotive, electronics and information technology were some of the sectors where companies expressed their intent to invest.

 “In all, 50 MoUs committing at least Rs 4,000 crore and 133 for investment between Rs 1,000 crore and Rs, 4000 crore were signed on Wednesday ,“ Nitin Patel, deputy chief minister, told media per sons.
 
 Notable among them was France's Airbus Group, which signed an MoU to develop an aerospace cluster including a helicopter manufacturing plant in Dholera spe cial investment region. However, the company did not quote any investment figure.
 
 While Adani Group, Welspun Group and MRF Group together announced investments worth nearly Rs 16,500 crore, the sunrise sector of biotechnology saw 54 firms signing MoUs to pump in nearly Rs 6,000 crore over the next few years.
 
 Welspun will invest Rs 2,000 crore in setting up an integrated textile manufacturing zone. It will also invest Rs 1,000 crore each on capacity enhancement of its technical textile business and its advanced textile arm that makes specialised materials for aerospace, defence and automobiles.
 
 Adani Group signed an MoU to invest Rs 4,200 crore for solar plant in Mundra and Rs 1,700 crore in information technology .P K Taneja, additional chief secretary , industry & mines, said, “So far, 24,835 MoUs have been signed for various sectors besides a number of strategic tie-ups.“ Information technology, the one in dustry where Gujarat is still struggling to attract top firms, also saw Rs 16,000 crore worth MoUs being signed. The state home department has also entered into a strategic partnership with a Russian agency for electronic surveillance system.
 
 Japan, which has been associated with VGGS since 2003, is keen to set up a dedicated Japan industrial park.
 
 Six cement plants are also likely to come up in Gujarat with various companies signing MoUs for an investment ranging from Rs 2,500 to Rs 5,500 crore.China's Tsingshan Holding Group has also proposed a Rs 5,500 crore steel plant while another firm from the dragon land, Taishan Fibreglass Inc, signed an MoU to set up Rs 1,700 crore fibre glass plant here. P2 & 4
 
