Every year, on an average, as many as 400   are reported in Ahmedabad alone. In majority of these cases, police records cite  ,  , failed relationships and family problems as the trigger. What is shocking, however, is that in the past one year, there has been a 57 per cent increase in cases of suicide where the victims are patients of  .

 These are the patients who slump into   following frustration and hopelessness during the course of their prolonged treatment, say police officials. In 2015, of the 325 suicide cases registered in city police stations, there were 70 cases where the victim suffered from illnesses/ injuries like tuberculosis, diabetes, HIV, fracture, hypertension, drug addiction and joint pain.
 
 The number of such victims grew to 116 in 2016-17 that saw a total of 360 suicide cases. Of these 116 cases, in 50 cases, the victims are in the 25-45 age group. And these were patients undergoing treatment for their medical condition, say police officials. Most of these illnesses/medical conditions can be cured with medicines, therapy and counselling by psychologists and family members, say doctors and senior police officials.
 
 The cases
 
 Take the case of Harishbhai Chauhan, 35, a patient of tuberculosis, who ended his life after consuming poison. He had been undergoing treatment for the disease but slumped into depression, said the police. Dr Rajesh Solanki, Head of Pulmonology department at Civil Hospital said, “Due to lack of awareness tuberculosis patients tend to think that there is no cure for their disease and they will die irrespective of the treatment doctor prescribes. Another reason for insecurity is the belief that they are going to be shunned by the society as their disease is infectious.”
 
 He added, “So the first time they come to us, we counsel them about the stage of the disease and the type of treatment. But counselling needs to be a consistent process. Even during the treatment the adverse sideeffects scare the patients and they lose hope. The doctors have to constantly assure them that this is part of the treatment process. A lot of times the patients also seek help of quacks and that only makes the disease and their stress much worse.”
 
 Deepak Parmar, 28, a resident of Motera ended his life in October 2016 by consuming poison. A breadwinner of his family, he suffered a major fracture in an accident and was advised rest for one year. Tense about the future and his family’s needs, he resorted to the extreme step, said Chandkheda cops.
 
 ‘Positivity is important’
 
 Dr Rajendra Anand, psychiatrist, said, “I have come across cases where patients of hypertension, paralysis, diabetes and extreme joint pain harbour suicidal thoughts. These medical conditions are perfectly curable, but the patients tend to overthink and slide into depression. Counselling and/or anti-depressants can take care of this problem. Even doctors treating them should properly explain to them their medical condition and how important it is to stay positive for recovery.”
 
 Sunil Thakor (name changed) jumped into the river from Indira Bridge two months ago. According to Naroda police officials, he was detected with first stage HIV. He feared being ostracised by his family members and the society and that is what drove him to suicide, said cops. Dr Prashant Bhimani, psychologist, told Mirror “What is required is proper counselling and care. We often find that patients, though aware that they can recover, tend to get depressed when they think of medical expenses or a situation where they have to borrow money from their relatives or friends.”
 
 Piyush Patel, in-charge Commissioner of Police, Ahmedabad City, and JCP (Joint Commissioner of Police), said, “Increase in the number of suicide cases is certainly a huge concern for us. Gujarat police have started a suicide- prevention helpline under the Suraksha Setu Society project. We request the patients and their family members to seek help from our counsellors.”
 
 
 
 
 Zindagi 1096
 Saath 079-2630 5544, 079-2630 0222
 Jeevan Aastha 18002333330
 
