Pune: The forest department plans to develop a garden named after   – the first satellite designed by students of College of Engineering, Pune — on Hanuman tekdi.

 “We did not want their achievement to be a day’s glory. We wanted this to inspire young minds and motivate them to keep innovating. That is why the plan to develop a centre-cum-garden of inspiration named after the satellite,” said Ranganath Naikade, deputy conservator of forest (territorial), Pune. 
 
 The six-acre garden will be developed on Hanuman tekdi adjacent to Symbiosis College on Senapati Bapat Road. “We chose Hanuman tekdi as it is in the heart of the city. It is also close to numerous colleges in that area. We want this garden to be developed into a tourist place,” Naikade added.
 
 Swayam is a 1-U picosatellite developed by the undergraduate students of College of Engineering, Pune. It was launched by Isro on June 22 last year, along with Cartosat-2C by Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle C-34 from Sriharikota.
 
 The department is planning to put up a fibre replica of Swayam. The students part of the project will plant a ‘Nakshatravana’. Saplings of trees representing the moon sign of the 170 students, according to their birth time, will be planted. The plants will be named after the respective students.
 
 “The development of this garden will take some time. We will design it in such a way that it does not cause any disturbance to the existing ecosystem. The place with a natural slope will be converted into an open-air theatre, while the spot that is like a plateau will be converted into an area for people to sit and relax,” Naikade said.
 
 The forest department is open to donations from the public. “It will be great if residents come forward and donate for the development of the centre. The donations need not be in cash, but can also be in the form of benches and dustbins,” Naikade said.
 
 The department is planning to make a 10-minute video on Swayam and play it in the open-air theatre for public. Plans are also on to put up boards about the natural diversity of the Western Ghats.
 
 
