UDAIPUR: Hundreds of tourists and locals are cherishing the beauty of  , situated 66km north of Udaipur, one of the most artistically constructed lakes in  , that is brimming this year after a long dry spell. However, not many many know that the lake had once served as the sea plane base of the Imperial Airways during World War II. It had been the marine-drome for over six years.

 “It was a historic day on August 8,1674 when a boat was launched in Rajsamand that was filled with water. But equally amazing site was `landing' and `takeoff“ of seaplane of the Royal (British) Air Force-RAF during the Second World War,“ says a retired professor and history en thusiast P S Ranawat. A heavy iron chain anchor is still available on the lake bed that was visited by one and all when the lake went dry in 2003. The office of the RAF was located on the 5-km long rock-face-earthen dam (irrigation Paal) near   town in Rajsamand district, Ranawat claims.
 
 Shockingly the historic iron chain anchor was visible when the lake dried up completely in 2003-04. It was even pulled up and left dumped on the paal side for sometime, however, instead of mounting it on a suitable place for visual pleasure, it was thrown back in the lake! “It was in 1937 when a jetty was constructed using iron links from four sides to facilitate the sea-plane operations. The flight connectivity was between England and Australia and the plane arrived here from Tighra in  ,“ historian Dr Shri Krishna Jugnu told TOI.
 
 Longest etchings in India also on the embankment of the lake are nine pavilions or 'nauchowki' (nine ghats), which were constructed by Maharana Raj Singh. These beautifully carved pavilions are festooned with pictures of the sun, chariots, gods, birds and detailed carvings. The history of Mewar is inscribed in 1017 stanzas, on 27 marble slabs, that are called the `Raj Prashas ti'. It has been acclaimed as one of the longest etchings in India.
 
 At sunset, the waters of the lake glitter with the light of the sun. However, the mining of marble in the catchment area in the last three decades has caused irreparable damage to the source of water. The rain water is now diverted elsewhere and the lake remains mostly dry . However, thanks to the heavy monsoon this year, the water is full. This large lake in a flat ter rain near the town Rajnagar in Rajsamand was constructed during the period 1662-1674 at the orders of Maharana Raj Singh-I. Rivers Gomti, Taali, Kelwa feed this reservoir, the la ke has three separate outlets and a fourth one as emergency one is at Gaughaat. The hilltop palace is named Rajmandir.
 
 A 300m long and 65m wide embankment between two hills has elaborately carved archwa ys, pavilions with image of a ce iling showing the delicately car ved Sun deity riding on his 7 horse drawn chariot and 9 plat forms with nine flight steps that gives them the name 9-Chowky .All these makes it a `miracle in marble'.
 
 In the niches of the platforms are placed 25 dark grey slate slabs inscribed with literary work ­ `Raj Prashasti Mahakavya'. Additionally , another long earthen dam, known by the name 'Irrigation Paal' is constructed near town Kankroli to hold back the water of the reservoir.
 
