Cash or no cash. It’s the time to ring in the  . Clubs, hotels, restaurants, shopping hubs and places of worship, too, thronged with revellers and devotees looking forward to a prosperous 2017, the epicentre of the bash was the good old College Road where youths began their celebrations from early Saturday evening.

 “The trend of going out for parties is growing these days in Nashik too. We have decided to stay out throughout the night and return home only after having a Misal breakfast at a popular food joint at Sinnar,” said Aniket Bhonsale, member of a bikers’ club. “The idea is to make the New Year memorable. It doesn’t matter where you celebrate it. Staying out after party adds another charm to the celebrations,” he added. 
 
 Prominent city hotels and restaurants were jam packed as special parties were organised to lure especially youths.
 
 Musical Events Galore 
 
 Music-lovers had a gala time on New Year’s Eve in Nashik with as many as six events being organized at different locations. Ghazal Nawaz Bhimrao Panchale regaled with his popular songs at Vishwas Lawns, while electronic band Ultrasonic presented a dance and music event at Thakker Dome. Nashik’s very own Local rock bands, ‘Nomadic Gods’, ‘Eternal Riffs’ and ‘Mitron’, had their performances at three different locations on Saturday.
 
 PM speech standstill 
 
 The address by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at 7.30 pm on Saturday paused the celebrations in most parts of the city. Crowded streets of college road suddenly turned deserted as most residents went inside homes or nearby shops and showrooms where the live telecast of the speech was going on. 
 
 Record rush & donations 
 
 The last day of the year attracted more than 3.5 lakh devotees to Shirdi Saibaba temple that remained open for 24 hours and devotees’ queues continued even after the arrangements such as time-slot darshan and VIP darshan. Interestingly, a gold platter worth Rs 30 lakh, a golden footwear (paduka) worth Rs 14 lakh and donations to the tune of Rs 1 crore were received on Saturday. 
 
 “As expected, Shirdi welcomed a large number of devotees. Thousands have registered for the time-slot darshan facility. Still, there are long queues in front of the Samadhi Mandir. We have arranged tea, coffee, water and snacks facilities for the devotees standing in queue,” said trustee Sachin Tambe. 
 
 From the first day of 2017, the Shirdi temple trust has started free meal facility for every visitor. According to the figures provided by temple trust’s public relations department, about 2.5 lakh devotees visited Shirdi on New Year’s Eve through 215 palanquin processions from four states. 
 
 Security Arrangements 
 
 The Nashik police department on Saturday deployed over 1,000 policemen on city roads to ensure a safe New Year’s Eve.
 
 The police department is leaving no stone unturned and opted for a strict bandobast in order to avoid incidents of eve-teasing, drunk driving and accidents.
 
 ACP Sachin Gore of the Crime branch said the bandobast was planned from 8.30 pm onwards, considering that most of the revellers come out only around 9 pm and continue their celebrations beyond midnight. 
 
  was maintained by all police stations in their respective jurisdiction to keep a watch on rash drivers, including those driving under the influence of alcohol, police said.
 
 Officials said bandobast was necessary as such occasions also lead to cases of eve-teasing. A huge force was maintained on College Road and Gangapur Road by the police as maximum number of restaurants and eateries fall on these roads.
 
 Meanwhile, bandobast was also maintained on the Mumbai Agra Road passing through the city considering the number of bars and permit rooms on the patch.
 
 “Every police station was instructed to put up nakabandi in at least three important locations in their respective jurisdictions. Apart from this, even the traffic cops were braced with breath analysers to keep a check on motorists driving under the influence of alcohol,” said Gore.
 
 Senior officials said the Nirbhaya van — with lady constables and other officials — also moved in different parts of the city to ensure safety of women.
 
