Pune: To cash in on the growing elevator market in India, German manufacturing company Thyssenkrupp completed its first elevator manufacturing plant at Chakan in Pune.

 Built over 22 acres in 18 months, the plant can make about 6,000 elevators annually at the current installed capacity. The company said it can expand the capacity to manufacture 10,000 units per year.
 
 Thyssenkrupp said the cumulative investment in the plant so far is about Rs 360 crore.
 
 According to the company, it will consolidate its “small” elevator manufacturing and assembly operations in Bhiwandi and Delhi at the  . Some of the employees from these centres will move there. The company has about 200 employees and the number will be increased to 350.
 
 The German manufacturer hopes to boost its share in the elevator market in the country. “The annual market for elevators (and escalators in India) is 55,000 units and our share is about 6.5% to 7%. Escalators comprise a very small portion of that — not more than 2,500 and it is project-based,” said Bharat Vishnani, managing director, Thyssenkrupp Elevator India.
 
 With the growth of India’s real estate, the company sees the market demand to be 65,000 units by 2020. It hopes to have a share of about 10,000 units by then in the Rs 8,000 crore (present value) market nationwide.
 
 The new Real Estate Regulation Act has the potential to limit new project launches, as also elongate project cycles in the housing sector. It is in this scenario that companies will have to compete to increase their market share. Earlier, the company had planned to scale the plant capacity to 10,000 units by 2019. However, Vishnani said the time limit will be difficult to predict.
 
 In the 12-month period ended September 2016, the company’s turnover in India increased 4% to about Rs 3,700 crore. Its elevator business in the same period grew by about 10%, Thyssenkrupp India CEO Ravi Kriplani said.
 
 Merger talks with Tata Steel on
 
 Thyssenkrupp’s proposed merger with Tata Steel has upset the employee unions in Germany as they fear job losses. Commenting on the development, Thyssenkrupp’s human resources, labour director Oliver Burkhard said, “Obviously, our employees in Germany and their unions are a bit upset about the upcoming restructuring. We have announced restructuring of our facilities in the heavy plate business unit, which has nothing to do with Tata Steel. It is a normal restructuring in a steel market that is going flat and not in the way we would like to see.”
 
 Burkhard said the company in talks with other steel makers in Europe too. “When or with whom we will consolidate is something we cannot say. That (job losses) has not calculated at all. As I said, we are in talks. Talks do not mean job losses,” he said, adding that the consolidation would have no impact on the operations of the company’s elevator business in India.
 
 
