VARANASI: In the first six phases of the UP assembly elections, PM   addressed just 18 rallies, aggregating barely 40 hours of campaigning. But just before the 
  , he suddenly shifted gear and visited his constituency Varanasi for three days on the trot, holding three “janata darshan” events and addressing as many rallies.

 In all, 
  in the past three days — a first for any PM — as campaigning ended on March 6 for the seventh and last phase of the polls. Poll watchers surmised that after a slow start,   may have gained some ground in the fifth and sixth phases despite relatively low turnouts, and is seeking to strengthen the trend by extensively deploying its star campaigner in the crucial final phase.
 
  
  in Varanasi marks the first time he has held so many roadshows there after taking charge as PM. Apart from the rally on the first day—which was termed as “janata darshan” by BJP —and the second and third roadshows between Gadwaghat and Ramnagar area, Modi also offered prayers at the Kaal Bhairav temple for the first time since he became Varanasi’s MP.
 
 The BJP campaign began under the collective leadership of national chief 
  , Union home minister Rajnath Singh, Union ministers Kalraj Misra and Uma Bharti, Gorakhpur MP Yogi Adityanath, UP BJP chief Keshav Prasad Maurya and others in the first six phases.
 
 In the first phase, the PM addressed three rallies at Meerut, Aligarh and Ghaziabad covering 73 seats, followed by three rallies covering 67 seats in the second phase and another three covering 69 seats in the third phase. He led three rallies covering 53 seats in phase 4 and covered 51 seats with the same number of rallies in the fifth phase. The number of seats covered in the sixth phase was only 49, though three rallies were held again.
 
 The final phase, comprising only 40 seats, saw a phenomenal rise in Modi’s visibility as this time he led five rallies, the maximum in the campaign, besides holding two ‘janata darshan’ programmes, one roadshow, a meeting with intellectuals, a visit to Kashi Vishwanath Temple and Kaal Bhairav temple, a visit to Gadwaghat and a visit to former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shashtri's house at Ramnagar, which SP leader Umakant Yadav said was aimed at votebank politics.
 
 Ramnagar falls in City Cantt from where the BJP candidate is Saurabh Srivastava, son of sitting MLA Jyotsana Srivastava. Saurabh is facing a tough fight from Congress candidate Anil Srivastava and BSP’s Rizwan Ahmed.
 
 
