MYSURU: BJP state president   pitched his tent in the city three weeks ago, taking up temporary residence at a Mysuru resort, to campaign for the Nanjangud and Gundlupet bypolls. The former chief minister pays a visit to both constituencies on a daily basis. In an interview to TOI, Yeddyurappa admitted that he had not campaigned this furiously in his own Shikaripura assembly constituency.

 
 
 
 They will indicate what people are thinking about the Siddaramaiah government but I wouldn’t call it a referendum. The results will speak about the government’s failures, such as not being able to spend 45% of the funds allocated in the 2016-17 budget.
 
 
 
 
 I went to pay my respects to the late minister HS Mahadeva Prasad. Would I speak to her about politics at such a time? She was eyeing sympathy votes, but her move has boomeranged. She tried to fool the people by putting on a crying act. It was also wrong on the part of the Congress to drag the Suttur math seer’s name. He never supported anybody, but blesses one and all.
 
 
 
 Our organisational structure is strong, and we have identified 175 constituencies where we will win. We have already identified one or two candidates for these segments. We’ll commission two or three surveys to select the candidates. In the 50 constituencies where we don’t have suitable candidates, we’ll admit leaders from other parties eager to join us.
 
 
 
 That we are pro-Hindus and anti-dalits is an allegation made by Siddaramaiah. But in Uttar Pradesh, BJP won 75 reserved constituencies, whereas Congress managed seven seats in total. There is no question of us having a hidden agenda. We are pro-Hindu, committed to their welfare. But we are not excluding anybody.
 
 
 
 The highest courts of the land have cleared me, but they continue to refer to me as a jailed leader. This shows KPCC chief G Parameshwara’s ignorance. I never expected this from him. People will revolt against the Congress.
 
 
 
 
 The scheduled castes and scheduled tribes are ecstatic when I go to the villages for campaigning. Around 400 people, irrespective of caste await my arrival and rush me to their streets. I’ve noticed this during the campaign: barriers of caste have been breached. Upper castes, such as the Lingayats and dalit communities are entering each other’s colonies.
 
 
 
 
 This is what happened in Uttar Pradesh, where my party won by a landslide. Women are expressing themselves, something I never expected. I’ve been in politics for four decades, and not campaigned like this for any bypoll. The Congress humiliated dalit leader V Srinivasa Prasad, which caused some angst among his community. Congress leaders are sent back while campaigning. At CM Siddaramaiah’s rallies, there are mainly people from his community and the Muslims. The Congress is depending on money. Let them distribute money, the people are with us.
 
 
 
 
 He is nervous. He’s left all official work, and brought 70% of his ministers for the campaign. But the feedback has unnerved the CM. The ministers cannot muster courage to hold rallies, nor are the people allowing them to.
 
