By  

 All of us look forward to our first job in life. We eagerly await the completion of our formal education to enter corporate life. We want to stand on our feet and live out our dreams.
 
 While this journey is exciting, we have to prepare to be successful in this phase of our life. What are the changes which one has to encounter when you leave the college premises and enter the  ?
 
 How to prepare oneself for the corporate world?
 
 The first and most important thing to remember is that you need to forget your pedigree at the compound wall of the corporate. While your pedigree may help you enter the corporate world, it will not make any impact after you are in there. What makes a difference is your performance and the value you bring to the table. Unlike the academic world, the corporate sphere changes fast. The next important lesson is to  , learn and re-learn at a hectic pace — not only to survive but to thrive. 
 
 In the corporate world, excellence is a never-ending journey. You have to be the best in whatever you do and then nobody can ignore you. This sphere is more competitive than academics and you may not always get a second chance. Dream big and you will realise your dreams. It may not happen in the time frame you have set for yourself but if you do not give up, it will definitely materialise.
 
 You may constantly have a dilemma whether ethics matter in corporate life. You may have seen millionaires making money the wrong way. You may be tempted to take short cuts. Remember to listen to your conscience and you will do no wrong. It is better to be happy and hold your head high rather than be rich and evade the taxman or police.
 
 It is natural to compare yourself with others working with you. You may wonder why you get paid less as compared to someone else. You may think the other person is less qualified or has irrelevant experience. It is not worth comparing yourself with others and feeling bad about it. Be like the   and your own   — always shining brightly so that nobody ever misses you.
 
 One may get away by submitting an assignment late in college once in a while. However, In the organisational context, living up to your   is the key to success. Your relative value is always determined by your personal credibility. Self discipline is expected in corporate life. Nobody will remind you to be on time. You set your standards by being on time all the time. Your reputation is determined by your punctuality. It is good to remember that your discipline is displayed when nobody watches you.
 
 In today’s globalised business environment, one needs to be globally mobile to be successful. We should be willing to pack up our bags and go anywhere to launch a global   in any organisation. Unlike college days, where one could get away with individual excellence, team work is vital to success in organisations. One needs to learn to work in team and collaborate and cooperate to leverage on the strengths of each team member.
 
 How do we deal with emotions?
 
 The enthusiasm and joy has to be sustained and persevered. We may not always get what we want but by sheer hard work and determination we can lay our own career path in the organisation. The lurking fear of not being good enough will confront us. Our ability to be humble, grounded and willingness to unlearn, learn and re-learn will help us get over fear.
 
 Meanwhile, not getting your preferred location may make you unhappy. But our ability to adapt and make the best use of every opportunity will help us excel. Everything appears new and unknown. How to ask and whom to ask is a constant question in our mind. Simply asking and being innocent will always help to find your way.
 
 The   programme may be intimidating and you may find yourself lost in a big organisation. Remember all of us joined some day and today it is your turn. You will know of everything as days pass by. The fear of the unknown and realisation that time will run out fast may make you restless. As long as you realise that learning is a lifelong journey, everyone in the organisation will be keen to help you.
 
 At times, you may not know when to speak and when to listen. You are curious when to ask questions and whom to ask. There are no right or wrong answers. As long as you are authentic, you need not worry about anything or anybody in the organisation.
 
 Things to look forward to:
 
 The thrill of getting your first salary is unbelievable. When you reach office on the first day and get your own desk to sit, it is a matter of pride. On getting your corporate credit card, you feel as if you have arrived in life. It’s nice to have new friends and colleagues at work and learn from them. Your first visiting card gives you respect and credibility. As we stand on our own feet, we become self-reliant.
 
 To conclude, moving from campus to corporate is like transitioning from bachelorhood to married life. Unlike your spouse in married life, you will have colleagues in the organisation. It is our ability to adapt and learn from them, which will make us successful.
 
 The writer is executive VP & country HR head,  . All views are personal
 
 
