MUMBAIi: Under the shadow of   being circulated on instant messaging apps beforehand, almost 17.7 lakh students will begin their   today. While the paper leaks have parents and students worried, principals and experts urged examinees to focus on their own preparation.

 In Mumbai division (Mumbai, Thane, Raigad and Palghar), 2.2 lakh students will appear for their first language paper, except English in the morning session and a few students will appear for French as a second or third language in the second session on Tuesday. 
 
 While students are working on last-minute preparations, the buzz about the paper leaks has many of them and their parents concerned. “The students are worried if the same thing will happen with the SSC papers and if it could affect them. All of them are extremely anxious and it becomes more difficult to concentrate,” said Uday Patil, a parent.
 
 The Mumbai division board’s helpline has been flooded with calls from concerned parents. “They are asking about seating arrangements and hall tickets but some want to know about the status of the   papers,” said a counsellor.
 
 Board officials said they had once again sent messages to exam conductors to not use mobile phones during the exam and to take note of students who enter late. “We are time and again urging teachers not to indulge in malpractices and to report anything suspicious,” said Siddheswar Chandekar, secretary, Mumbai division.
 
 Mental health experts suggest that students leave their phones aside and concentrate on their preparations. “Constantly checking the phone and trying to understand what others are talking about only adds to anxiety. For the duration of the exam, it would be best to stay away from instant messaging and work on revision. Reducing the use of technology will help concentration,” said clinical psychologist, Seema Hingorrany.
 
 Psychiatrist Dr Harish Shetty said students must not lose focus. “Parents should ensure students focus on sleep and diet and stay away from rumours. They should also refrain from the urge to indulge in malpractices.”
 
 
