PATIALA: Sikh organisations reached Patran police station near here on Sunday to demand action against a government railway police (GRP) assistant sub-inspector (ASI) who was   of a   after he had allegedly misbehaved with a girl on Friday evening.

 Leaders of Shiromani Akali Dal (Mann) and Panthic Lehar Daduwal went to the police station along with the girl and sought action against the cop. Later, they alleged that instead of initiating action against ASI Didar Singh, police were mounting pressure on Jaswinder Singh, one of the passengers who first took exception to ASI’s comments at the girl, and his family to strike a compromise.
 
 The girl said it was “unfortunate” that the ASI misbehaved with her in front of other passengers and even commented on her religious symbols. Jewan Singh of Panthic Lehar Daduwal said in case the police did not act against the accused cop, they would be forced to hold dharnas.
 
 Patran SHO Amanpal said they had only received a statement from ASI Didar Singh, while Jaswinder was yet to turn up to give his statement. He said the alleged incident in which the cop misbehaved with the girl had occurred in the jurisdiction of Sangrur police, and Patiala SSP had already written to his Sangrur counterpart to look into the matter.
 
 SGPC chief Kirpal Singh Badungar also came out in support of the girl and said the SGPC would provide all legal and other help to the girl. The incident had occurred on Friday evening, when the girl was returning to her village, Kaitala, in a PRTC bus which she had boarded from Mehlan Chowk in Sangrur.
 
 It was alleged that the ASI started misbehaving with the girl and commented on the religious symbols worn by her. He even held her hand and forced her to sit with him. This did not go well with bus passengers who objected to his behaviour.
 
 Later, one Jaswinder Singh got into a scuffle with the cop and thrashed him at Patran bus stand. Today, more videos of the cop, allegedly drunk, arguing with other bus passengers emerged on social-networking websites. In the videos, the ASI could be seen hurling abuses at other passengers, while they are seen questioning his behaviour.
 
