NAGPUR: The thick foliage and giant trees at   were not enough to keep the blazing sun out as it was a sticky and hot 33 degrees even at 7am on Sunday morning. But as if responding to the musical notes was the light breeze which rustled intermittently as Rita Dev, a  , gave her maiden performance not just in Nagpur but in the state. 

 At the early morning   organized by the cultural centre on every second Sunday of the month, Hindustani classical music ruled with Dev rendering two ragas, a thumri, chaiti and finally an abhang.
 
 Beginning the performance with a bandish in raag Gurjari Todi, so apt for an early morning performance as it creates an environment soaked in ‘bhakti’ and ‘karuna’, she created the mood with ‘Daras bina ankhiyan mori’ and amazed the audience with her ‘laykaari’ and ‘alaap’. “I am so grateful for getting this opportunity to perform early in the morning as it is giving me a chance to sing a morning raag,” said Dev.
 
 The effect of the early morning environment was so strong that the vocalist decided to present a short bandish in Lalit the mellifluous raag which requires intense ‘riyaaz’ and learning from a guru. Being a ‘gandaband’ shishya of Girija Devi her rendition of the bandish ‘Jogiya morey ghar aaye’ was pitch perfect.
 
 Showing more of her tutoring under the doyennes of thumri — Dev’s rendition of a thumri in raag Bhairavi — ‘Babul mora nahir chhuto hi jaye’ was moving and soulful.
 
  And even as she inquired from SCZCC officials if she needed to stop or continue, the audience did the needful by requesting for more which came in the form of a ‘chaiti’, ‘Chait maas bole re koyaliya’ a favourite of her guru. 
 
 Enjoying her very first interaction with the city audience, she delighted the large number of music lovers gathered to hear her by ending her performance with an ‘abhang’ and dedicating it to vidushi Kishori Amonkar who passed away last month.
 
 “The set up and the environment was so magical here that I just flowed along,” she told TOI later. 
 
 “The tabla artist who was to accompany me to Nagpur could not reach but by a stroke of luck I discovered that Pt Krishan Ram Domkar from Varanasi was in the city and I was lucky enough to have him on stage today,” she said.
 
 Quotes:
 
 This is the first time I am attending Brahmanaad and it’s been a mesmerizing experience. Sitting so close to the stage and listening to such a fine artiste perform was an opportunity not to be missed.
 
  | homemaker
 
 I am a regular for this event and have braved cold in the past and today the extreme heat but have never felt uncomfortable because the music is simply divine. Today’s programme had a good variety of different forms of classical music
 
 Ketki Thatte | homemaker
 
 I have never been here before but am loving the environment. My parents love classical music and it plays in my house most of the time. So, I am enjoying this live performance
 
 Aadi Ahuja | student
 
 ends
 
 
