JALANDHAR: The elections to pick the office-bearers of the newly-constituted   (DSGMC) have been deferred. The members of newly-elected house of DSGMC have taken oath and president of the previous body   was unanimously elected as pro-tem chairman.

 GK said the decision of postponing the election of office-bearers was taken in view of celebrations of Fateh Diwas being held on Saturday and Sunday. However, sources close to him claimed that the real reason behind the delay was his unhappiness with the panel of new office-bearers sent by top brass of   (SAD).
 
 Sources in SAD revealed that GK was tipped to be elected president but rest of the office-bearers were to be picked up not by him but by Akali top brass. Like the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) election, it had become a convention in the DSGMC also to name the office-bearers as per the wishes of the SAD president, said sources.
 
 GK was face of the entire campaign of SAD during the DSGMC polls. His pictures were not only used on the publicity materials, like posters and banners, across Delhi but on social media too the campaign was run with #Vote4TeamMannjitSinghGK.
 
 SAD patron   and president Sukhbir Singh Badal and other senior Akali leaders from Punjab were kept away from the campaigning as Delhi-based Akali leaders feared negative reaction due to the party getting support from Sirsa’s Dera Sacha Sauda in the Punjab assembly elections. GK had demanded action against the Akali leaders who went to seek dera’s support and mounted fresh attack on its head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh.
 
 After SAD got a thumping majority by winning 35 out of 46 seats in the DSGMC polls, GK’s stature rose as the campaign was woven around him and the work of his team in the last four years.
 
 When asked by TOI about postponing the election to pick new office-bearers, GK said Fateh Diwas celebration was the reason. However, responding to a question from media while coming out of the meeting hall, he said Delhi’s sangat (community) had elected him as president in their hearts and other offices could come and go.
 
