AURANGABAD: A heart   procedure was successfully performed in   on Wednesday morning, making it only the second city after Mumbai in the state to have achieved this feat.

 The donor, Anil Patil, a 45-year-old school teacher from Kaygaon village in Gangapur taluka, was declared brain dead after he suffered serious injuries when his bike collided with another two-wheeler near Harsul a couple of days ago.
 
 The doctors counselled Patil’s family to donate his organs. A farmer from Shevgaon taluka of Ahmednagar district, who is in his mid-50s, received the heart, while the kidneys were transplanted in two patients in Aurangabad. The liver was transplanted in Pune. 
 
 Patil is survived by his wife, two daughters and a son, his family members said.
 
 Following two failed attempts to transport a beating heart from Aurangabad to Mumbai last year, the successful transplant on Wednesday morning would cut costs for patients who earlier had to travel to Mumbai for the process. 
 
 Patil would regularly wear the helmet while riding, but had failed to carry the protective headgear that day as he had to go to a nearby location, his family members told TOI. 
 
 The family members said it was an irreparable loss for them, but they could draw consolation that he gave a fresh lease of life to three people. “He will continue to live in three other souls. We are content with our decision to donate his organs,” said Satish Jadhav, Patil’s brother-in-law.
 
 The doctors at CIIGMA Hospital, where the heart transplant took place, said highly intelligent and sophisticated equipment and infrastructure, along with skilled doctors and mandatory clearances, are a must for successful heart transplantation. Doctors from Mumbai, Pune and Aurangabad were part of the team that performed the procedure, which started at 5am and lasted for three hours.
 
 “The heart recipient is stable and would recover in four to five days. The process of retrieval of heart from the donor’s body and its transplantation took place almost simultaneously. It required less than a minute to transport the heart as both surgeries were performed in adjacent operation theatres,” said Unmesh Takalkar, director of CIIGMA Hospital.
 
 Sudhir Kulkarni, president of Zonal Transplant Coordination Committee (ZTCC), Aurangabad, said that earlier, the heart retrieved from brain dead patients from the region had to be flown to Mumbai and Chennai for transplant. “The latest development would encourage organ donations in the future,” he said. 
 
 “If donors and recipients are based in different cities, most of the times charted flights need to be arranged to transport the organs. It leaves little time available for doctors to save the retrieved organs. In this heart transplant, the logistics was zero. In effect, the cost of this surgery came down to half,” said Takalkar.
 
 A green corridor was created from Aurangabad to   at Deccan Gymkhana in Pune to save the life of a 48-year-old man, a farmer, suffering from an end stage liver cirrhosis on Wednesday. The distance of over 230km, which usually takes six hours, was covered in three hours and 10 minutes.
 
 A team of doctors comprising liver transplant surgeons Bipin Vibhute, Rahul Saxena and transplant anaesthetist Manish Pathak successfully performed the transplant on the patient. “The recipient had been suffering from liver cirrhosis for the last three years. He was in an immediate need of a transplant,” said Vibhute. 
 
 (with inputs from Umesh Isalkar, Pune)
 
 
