BHUBANESWAR: Only 2% students from Odisha, appearing for the all India civil service examinations got through since the past several years. 

 Informing the assembly in a written reply on Thursday, higher education minister   said while only 1.43% students from the state cracked the prestigious examination in 2012, the success rate was 1.8% in 2013, 1.9% in 2014 and 2.4% in 2015.
 
 Though there is no official figure about state-wise success of students in the all India civil service examination, the success rate of Odisha is way behind as compared to North Indian states like Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Haryana and Bihar, sources said. 
 
 "Lack of proper coaching facilities in Odisha and scope for lucrative career options in professional jobs are some of the key reasons behind poor success rate of students from Odisha in the civil service examinations," feel experts.
 
 Successful students are now opting for medicine, engineering, law, journalism and other professional jobs instead of devoting time for civil services because of career growth and opportunity to grow, said retired bureaucrat Tarun Kanti Mishra. 
 
 Mishra said it is now very difficult to crack the civil service examinations without proper coaching facilities. "There is also no scope for proper grooming in Odisha," he said.
 
 Linu Chayani, who runs a civil service coaching centre since past 24 years in the city called for orientation among students for civil service in schools and colleges to increase the success rate in the all India examinations.
 
 "Since our students are not aware of civil service examinations, they opt for professional jobs. Besides, the curriculum in the state universities should be on a par with JNU and  ," she said. She also said the state government should allow best faculties to coach civil service aspirants from Odisha.
 
 In his reply, the higher education minister said the state government has allocated Rs 1 crore to different state-run universities to facilitate coaching for all India civil service examination.
 
 
