NEW DELHI: Scattered rain continued across the   on Tuesday morning, with overcast conditions prevailing throughout the day. Maximum temperature was recorded at 32.5 degrees Celsius, two notches below normal for the season. 

 The rains brought a cooling effect in the region which is likely to continue for the next few days. Light showers are forecast for Wednesday and Thursday in some parts of NCR, while a strong spell of showers is likely to occur over the weekend from Friday to Sunday, MeT officials said.
 
 According to officials from the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre (RWFC) in Delhi, the southwest monsoon has become vigorous over west Rajasthan and active over East Uttar Pradesh and east Rajasthan. The monsoon trough is now passing through the centre of low-pressure areas.
 
 “A strong spell of showers is likely to take place from Friday to Sunday in parts of Delhi NCR, with peak rainfall activity likely to occur on Saturday as the monsoon trough advances northwards. Heavy rainfall may occur in some parts of Punjab and Haryana during the period. This intensity of rainfall will increase over the weekend,” said a RWFC official.
 
 More rains are likely to occur due to a western disturbance caused due to upper air cyclonic circulation over south Rajasthan and neighbourhood areas, with a low-pressure area created. Officials said fairly wide spread rainfall activity will occur over parts of Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and west UP from Tuesday to Sunday due to this phenomenon.
 
 Delhi received light showers on Tuesday with 3.3mm of rainfall recorded at Safdarjung till 8.30am, followed by 1.1mm of rainfall in the next 9 hours. Palam and Jafarpur weather stations recorded 13.5mm and 15mm of rainfall in a 24-hour period till 8.30am. Humidity continued to remain high as well, oscillating between 65% to 94%, MeT officials said.
 
 “Temperatures will stay in a similar range on Wednesday with light thundershowers forecast. The maximum temperature will be around 33 degrees Celsius, while the minimum will settle around 27 degrees Celsius,” said a MeT official.
 
 
