CHANDIGARH: Even though tie-ups between   and schools have been prohibited, there are still cases of books of a particular school being available in particular shops. Also, in some cases, schools verbally recommend stores. The set of books and stationary prepared by book stores for specific schools also give this picture.

 “My child studies in Sector 38-based school. I tried asking for books in different shops but they were not available. Like others, I will also have to go to a shop in Sector 22 to buy it,” said Davinder Singh, a parent.
 
 “My child is in Saupin’s School, Mohali. I tried buying books from three to four stores in Mohali and Chandigarh but like every year, I had to come to Sector 19. For a change, we can return what is not needed,” said Harvinder Singh, a parent from Sector 41.
 
 A parent from a school in Sector 47, Pradeep, alleged that a book store representative told him about a tie-up. “I tried many shops but I had to return to this particular shop from where we used to buy books every year. I asked the shopkeeper if he would give a discount but he said, ‘Apko discount dein ya school walon ko commission’” (should we offer you a discount or give commission to schools.”
 
 Another parent who came back agitated from a Sector 22 book store said, “The books are only available in one shop. We had a fight over buying the complete set as we had some left over books and did not want to buy some of them. But they forced us to buy the set. We decided to try Sector 19 book stores since there is no tie-up this year. But these are not available anywhere else. We have no option but to go back and buy the complete set.”
 
 The publishers however, denied any tie-up. When asked how they have made sets of particular schools, a bookstore owner, asking not to be named, said, “There is no tie-up. We made sets based on last year’s sale. We keep certain books well-stocked, those which schools have been prescribing for many years. Since these books start printing months in advance. Plus, we are also ordering books which we do not have but which certain schools are prescribing,” said Rakesh Puri, owner of a book shop in Sector 22.
 
 In many cases parents said they were given information by schools. "Yes, schools told us to buy books from this particular store and have been doing so every year", a Class IX student of a Sector 46-based school said.
 
 "The school in Mohali where my child studies gave us the visiting card of a book shop selling the books mentioned in the list. However, they said it was up to us to buy books from wherever we wanted to," said a parent requesting anonymity
 
 “Till last year, my child’s school in Sector 25 was giving books from the school campus. This time, they are available at a particular book shop. I checked and found that the books are not available anywhere else. Now, the store has a long queue and it is making every parent feel the previous system was better as it saved time, since the tie-up still continues,” said a parent from Sector 25 based school said, requesting anonymity.
 
