On Wednesday night, one could be excused if they mistook the grounds of   for the venue of an international EDM concert. Thousands of students gathered in the university grounds to listen to popular rapper Raftaar, who wowed the audience in an energetic two-hour long performance. The rapper performed in the campus as part of the 'Inbush Era 2017', organized by  . Entering the stage chanting "Nyodda, Nyodda, Nyodda!" like a bus conductor,   said, "This takes me back to the days when I used to travel to Noida in a DTC bus."

  
  Raftaar (BCCL/ Lokesh Kashyap)
 
  Gesturing to the huge crowd gathered for the concert, the Dhaakad-hitmaker said, "Now this is some mad energy. Waise bhi, if too many people are gathered in one place, automatically   lagne lagta hai. But tonight, let’s give all those festivals a run for their money. Let’s do a mad concert tonight."
 
  
  Nyodda’s Favourite: The stage for Raftaar’s Noida concert was built on top of a bus (BCCL/ Lokesh Kashyap) 
 
  
 About half an hour into his performance, the rapper abruptly signalled for the music to stop when he noticed some people fighting in the crowd. After asking the bouncers to stop them "pyaar se", Raftaar addressed the students involved in the skirmish and said, "Paise de kar aaye ho yahan, dekh toh lo stage par. I was in IP University. I have attended many fests in Delhi-Noida and fought in several of them. So let me tell you as a senior, this won’t help you a bit. No girl is looking at you and nobody is getting impressed by this behaviour. You are only spoiling the mood and getting injured yourself. Ab tumhara ho gaya ho toh main gaana start karoon?"
 
  
  A huge crowd danced to Raftaar’s hits like 'Shera Di Kaum', 'Dishoom', ' ' at his concert in Noida
 
 
  
 But there were no further interruptions to the performance as Raftaar belted out some of his biggest hits including 'Shera Di Kaum', 'Dishoom', and 'Dhup Chik'. As he sang his famous track 'Tamanchey Pe Disco', the rapper said to the crowd, "If you are in Noida, you have to talk about guns." But Raftaar did have a cautionary warning for the students, asking them to remember that not all of what happens in music videos is a reality. "What happens in our videos is not the reality. There are no girls in skimpy clothes dancing around us. We don’t have big bungalows and farmhouses. The big cars you see us in are all hired. Koi faayda nahi badi gaadi lene ka. Delhi ke roads par pehle se 800 Maruti hoti hain aage," the rapper said.
 
 
 
 
