 recently moved into the top two floors of his newly-constructed 10-storey building in Juhu, which is next to Shatrughan Sinha's bungalow, Ramayan, which is nine floors high. The filmmaker, who initially intended to christen the property `Ishaan' after his son, has now placed a board at the entrance that reads `Shetty Tower'. The first four floors of the high-rise have been allotted to an expansive parking facility to house Rohit's high-end cars, while the rest of the floors will be given out on rent. The building had been under construction for the last one year while a sprawling garden and security cabin were completed last month.
A source close to the filmmaker informed Mirror, “Rohit has a fully functional office with terrace-seating and a production house in Andheri and will not be moving his workspace into the new building.This one is his new home and he is living there with his mother, Ratna, wife, Maya and son, Ishaan.“
 
 The locality boasts of other swanky celebrity addresses including Amitabh Bachchan's Prateeksha and Jalsa, Anil Kapoor's bungalow, and Varun Dhawan, Alia Bhatt and Shraddha Kapoor's apartments.
 
 Rohit's sister, Mahek, who tied the knot with designer Navin Shetty in 2012 in a star-studded ceremony, was recently blessed with twins and buzz was that the Shettys would all be living together under one roof but the source revealed that the new parents live in Kandivali and are regular fixtures at Rohit's home but will not be moving in with him.
 
 Rohit, one of the highest-paid filmmakers in India today and a permanent fixture in the highest grossing films' club, started his cinematic journey at age 17 as an assistant director to Kuku Kohli on Ajay Devgn's debut film, 'Phool Aur Kaante'. The filmmaker, who, in several media interactions has recalled living in a small apartment in Dahisar, making Rs 35 a day, suffering a financial crisis and travelling by the Mumbai local to make it to work on time, has since directed blockbuster franchises like 'Singham' and 'Golmaal', and other commercial successes like 'Bol Bachchan' and 'Chennai Express'. He is presently filming the fourth instalment in the 'Golmaal' franchise, 'Golmaal Again', featuring Ajay Devgn, Parineeti Chopra, Tabu, Arshad Warsi, Tusshar Kapoor, Prakash Raj, Shreyas Talpade, Kunal Kemmu and Neil Nitin Mukesh.
 
 “Rohit had been thinking of building a prime property in Mumbai for 11 years. He is happy that his hard work has finally paid off and got him his dream home,“ the source adds.
 
