Small coils of fine, fluffy rice noodles are part of popular cuisine not only in countries such as Malaysia and Sri Lanka, but also closer to home, in Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. In Goa, the preparation is called   or shirvaleo, researchers say, adding that it has been known to this part of the globe since the 1st century AD.

 Unlike in other regions, where the dish comprises part of a whole meal and is eaten with meat and/or fish curries, in Mangaluru and Goa, it is generally consumed as a light breakfast or an evening snack and relished with a sweetish, coconut-based dressing locally called ros.
 
 In these parts, shevyo is also made from ragi (finger millet) flour, particularly for those seeking a healthier option. Rice shevyo, however, is still the more popular of the two, with the ragi version almost non-existent in Goan homes now. 
 
 Nevertheless, shevyo makes a rare appearance on our breakfast tables because it is quite a cumbersome dish to make; a tasty delight like it cannot come easy. Another reason is that the shevgo, a bronze or iron instrument used to press rice or ragi balls into noodles, are found only in a few homes.
 
 “To make ragi shevyo, boil water and add ragi flour and salt to it. Prepare the dough. Make balls according to the size of the shevgo being used, put them in boiling water and let them cook for 15 to 20 minutes. Break open one of the balls to ensure they are cooked well inside. Once they are fluffy enough, remove them from the water,” explains Vasundhara Naik of Savoi Verem.
 
 These ragi balls are then put into the three-legged shevgo container and pressed into noodles.
 
 To prepare the ros, grated coconut is ground and the milk is extracted. This coconut milk is then cooked in water to which salt and jaggery are added.
 
 Further south of the continent, the method adopted to prepare these noodles is different. The dough is prepared by adding salt and water to the flour and pressed into noodles. These are them placed into idli cookers and steamed. A wheat version also exists down south, but is not heard of in Goa.
 
 The freshly-pressed noodles are traditionally placed on banana leaves or fine, linen cloth to keep them from sticking to one another.
 
 Just a taste of shevyo, made either from rice or ragi, will hit home why it has persisted among communities ever since its first-known mention in Tamil Sangam literature.
 
 
