SHIMLA: After local residents, a member of National Women Commission (NWC) too has raised fingers on the police probe in gangrape and murder of a minor girl in Kotkhai area of Shimla district on July 4. 

 NWC member   said that there are questions in this case for which police has no answers. She also questioned how the photographs of some people were uploaded on facebook page of chief minister Virbhadra Singh and if they were not the accused then what action has been initiated against those who uploaded the photographs of wrong people.
 
 While interacting with media persons in Shimla, Sahu said that when body was recovered on July 6 it was intact. She said police claims that minor girl was killed on July 4 between 4pm to 5pm at the same spot and if this was true then why not stray dogs attacked it. She said if the crime spot was same place where body was found then why not people living in the close vicinity did hear anything.
 
 She said police has no answers to above questions. She said that Commission had summoned state DGP but he was on leave instead one ADGP was sent who had no answer to any of the queries.
 
 Sahu said she had met Mamta, widow of accused Suraj Singh who was killed in police lockup, who had informed her that Suraj was not involved in crime and was working with her in the fields on July 4 and 5. She said same goes with the other arrested accused.
 
 She said Raju (Rajender Singh), who according to police is the main accused in the crime, had taken his cancer patient mother to Cancer Hospital Shimla on July 5 and police could check this by checking the CCTV footage of hospital.
 
 She questioned the manner in which photo was uploaded on the facebook page of chief minister and later removed. She asked the reasons of removing photographs. She said Virbhadra Singh should also tell what action has been initiated again people who uploaded these photographs and whether any FIR has been registered on this issue.She said police too first detained then released the accused and later arrested them again.
 
 Sahu also raised question mark on the postmortem report. She said that postmortem report says that two hours before death, girl had eaten rice. She said police says girl was killed between 4 pm to 5 pm on July 4 while her body was recovered the morning of July 6 and postmortem was conducted on July 7. “Now question arises that rice cannot remain in her stomach for so long,” she added.
 
 She said that on body fresh strangulation marks were witnessed by the family and others if she was killed on July 4 then marks could not have been fresh. She said deceased girl’s father informed that her arm and leg was also broken. “All these things raises serious questions on police probe and now CBI has to find answers to all these questions,” he added.
 
 She said that elder sister of deceased girl informed that during her visit to their house, Pratibha Singh, wife of Virbhadra Singh, had told her not to press for CBI probe. She said that government issued notification to name the school after deceased minor girl that invites punishment for two years. She said what action Virbhadra Singh has taken against erring officials.
 
 Alleging that government is trying to save some people in this case, Sahu said commission would submit its report to CBI.
 
