Location: Malappuram 
Municipality Stadium, Kottappady
 Time: 2 pm to 6 pm, February 10
 
 What does your gender have to do with playing the beautiful game?
 
 Nothing, says a group of young football enthusiasts from Kerala. And they are all set to prove it within a few days at Kottappady. Probably a first in the country and also a rare feat even at the world level, the   tournament has been gaining attention in the northern districts of the State, in which boys, girls and transpeople from across the State will be part of the teams. The semi-finals and the finals of the tournament will be held in Malappuram on February 10 and both the players and viewers are excited alike, to rewrite history and 
 have fun.
 
 “It’s like playing any other tournament or game, just that it’s a lot more fun as your teammates are from different genders,” says techie Avin Ramesh, one of the players, who is practising with his team for the finals. “When I played my first round of matches with women and transpersons, I thought it would be easy to score as many of them were first timers in football. But I was so wrong and even the first goal in our match came from a woman!” adds Avin.
 Each team consists of 11 members — three men, seven women and one transperson. While the men and women are mostly aged below 20, there is no age restriction for transpeople. Sreerag P N, one of the organisers, says, “The event is organised by Yuvasamithi, the youth wing of Kerala People’s Science Movement (Sasthra Sahithya Parishad). We used to have gender neutral events as part of our camps in the past too. We conduct a film festival every year in Malappuram and this year for a change, we decided to hold a sports and cultural event with a difference. And as the venue is the football-crazy Malappuram, we decided to go for a gender neutral football tournament!”
 
 The message was passed on to youth wings across various districts and the players were found through small-time regional matches. When they found it tough to find women team members, the organisers approached a handful of colleges and schools, who agreed on sending their sports girls for the match!
 
 Many of the women footballers have been part of other sports events and are trying this game for the first time! They have been practising with teammates of other genders, and say it feels quite normal. Divya Krishna, captain of one of the teams, says, “When the organisers of the event approached us, we had our share of concerns first but decided to give it a try, nevertheless. But once the event started the gender hardly mattered, while on the ground. There was no room for gender bias, we helped each other and had a lot of fun too. I love the positive energy on the field in this tournament.”
 
 Transperson Esha Kishore, who played football for the first time in this match, says, “Many transpeople are those who are more inclined towards arts than sports, just like me. It often happens as during our growing up years, we develop a lot more inhibitions than others and also can’t withstand the rough and tough kind of sports. I am glad to say that in this tournament, though I started out as a reluctant player, I am enjoying playing football thoroughly. I’m looking forward to the upcoming matches, eagerly.”
 
 There is another bigger aim too for these youngsters to hold such an event – bringing in more women to watch sports. Rizwan, another organiser, says, “Even in Northern Kerala where people love football, you won’t find many women watching the matches in the galleries. We want to change that. Alongside the match, we are also campaigning to bring in more women and children into the audience so that even our viewers become gender-neutral. That is the bigger dream that we are pursuing.”
 
 
