Dhaupura (Jamwa Ramgarh): Can you imagine what Meera Gujjar could have done if she had proper education? Barely in her mid-30s and hailing from a conservative community, Meera is an anachronism in the entrenched and essentially male-dominated domain of government construction work.

 With a husband who has a psychiatric ailment and a son to educate, the going had always been tough for her.
 
 But she was not the one to lose heart and took decisive steps toward finding financial freedom and providing support for her family, making her the perfect candidate for United Nation’s 2017 theme: ‘Women in the Changing World of Work: Planet 50-50 by 2030’.
 
 The UN project aims at a future that gives equal opportunities and rights to all women by 2030. It focuses on new commitments under UN women’s ‘Step It Up’ initiative, and other existing commitments on gender equality, empowerment and human rights.
 
 Hailing from the hamlet, Dhaupura in Jamwa Ramgarh tehsil 21km from Jaipur, the sight of Meera, attired in traditional ‘ghagra lugdi’, at the Public Works Department (PWD) was ‘intriguing’.
 
 While the instant reaction was one of surprise, her confidence was perceptible as one listens to her discuss tender terms with officials.
 
 “It’s certainly difficult for women here. But I was going through difficult times and had to do something for survival. I only knew ‘k, kha…bakhadi’ (basic ABC). It took me two years to form the company—Meera Construction Co—with assistance from a chartered accountant. I had to work from scratch and learn all the processes and procedures to get my PAN card, register my company, and get the TIN and sales tax numbers. Even a year after getting all these documents, I did not get any work as gender inequalities are deeply entrenched in the system. But I did not give up,” says Meera, who is registered as a ‘D’ category contractor with the PWD.
 
 But learning quickly, she started bidding for tenders at rates that were lower by 15%. This did not help. She failed again to win any tender at 27% and 38% lower rates. “Finally, when I bid 44% less, I got my first contract to re-carpet the road at minister Rajender Singh Rathore’s place. So far, I have done only five projects. I only want one project in six months. That’s enough to sustain me and my family,” says Meera.
 
 But, how did she come to know about tenders and government contract work? “I got to know about the Notice Inviting Tender (NIT) from the net as well as from PWD. Now, I’m the only ‘thekadar’ (contractor) from the village. The Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) has lot of work for us. But I don’t have the money to register or to put in as earnest money to pursue more tenders. It takes lots of time for authorities to clear bills and most of the time officials are hesitant to give me work,” she says.
 
 These have not stopped her. She’s now waiting to be upgraded as a ‘C’ category contractor so that she can take up bigger works.
 
 
