SHIMLA: With eyes set on the coming assembly election, the BJP and Congress continue to play politics on the issue of newly sanctioned national highways. While Congress ministers are claiming that announcement of 61 new national highways (NH) for   is mere political announcement as till now, the state has not received any sum from the Centre for these roads. Hamirpur MP of BJP Anurag Thakur said that state had received the notification for preparing the detailed project report (DPR) for these 61 NHs in September last year, which seems to have been ignored by Congress-led state government.

 The Congress is accusing the Union government of not providing financial assistance to prepare the DPRs, while BJP is accusing the state government of making no efforts to prepare the DPRs.
 
 Two Congress ministers – Sudhir Sharma and Mukesh Agnihotri – had recently claimed that the Centre has not even approved the estimates of Rs 240 crore for conducting DPR preparations for these roads. They said response has been received only regarding 17 cases and the remaining still await clearance from the government. 
 
 Thakur said Union minister for road transport, highways and shipping Nitin Gadkari had visited Solan for a rally in June 2016 where he had made announcement for sanctioning funds for new national highways. He said as a follow up to this, in September 2016, the state had received the notification for preparing DPR for the 61 NHs announced. He expressed disappointment towards the attitude of chief minister   who recently pronounced that the DPRs have not been prepared as the notification is yet to be received from the Central government. 
 
 “In fact, Rs 229 crore has also been sanctioned to prepare the DPR. It is extremely surprising to learn that Virbhadra, being the minister for public works development (PWD) as well, is making this claim, as the letter from the Central government was addressed to the principal secretary of PWD itself,” he added.
 
 Thakur said making announcement and then backtracking his own words has become Virbhadra’s forte. He said one day the CM announces that government will hold office in second capital Dharamshala, another day he says there will be no office but regular work will take place like in the past, on another occasion announced that his son will contest state assembly elections from his seat and soon said the statement was made casually. 
 
 “And now he is doing the same with the development of national highways in the state. Such a callous attitude is affecting the growth of the state,” Thakur added
 
 
