CHENNAI: Underwriting profits in the general insurance industry was non-existent for the first half of 2016-17 in part because of natural disasters, floods and the drought situation. Non-life insurers posted a combined loss of Rs 7,554 crore in H1FY17 from losses in their motor and health portfolios.

 Insurers said that the industry has been seeing sustained underwriting losses over the last 5-6 years. Long-term low prices would affect a insurance company’s margins and the services it offers customers, including ability to settle claims.
 
 “The industry has seen some impact from natural calamities. There was a spillover from the Chennai floods and the drought situation affecting farmers in many parts of India,” said Sanjay Datta, chief underwriting and claims, ICICI Lombard General Insurance Co.
 
 Insurers said that the entry of new players has intensified competition in motor and health. “Going forward pricing adequacy would results in better underwriting results,” said Datta.
 
 While public-sector companies incurred a loss of about Rs 5,794 crore, private sector players saw a loss of 1,667 crore. Bajaj Allianz General Company, Agriculture Insurance Company of India Ltd and Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of India Ltd were the few, that posted an underwriting profit for the half year of Rs 29 crore, Rs 90 crore and Rs 53 crore respectively.
 
 Market leader New India Assurance Ltd, saw underwriting loss of Rs 1,803 crore for the half-year. The general insurer, which had underwritten premium worth Rs 11,204 crore for the half year, and settled 17.33 lakh claims — with prudent underwriting kept its solvency ratio at 2.04. Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) mandates that insurers have a solvency or maintain capital reserves that are adequate to the risk they take i.e sufficient to settle expected claims.
 
 United India Insurance Company and Oriental Insurance fared worse than their public sector peer. For the half year of 2016-17, United India saw an underwriting loss of Rs 1,533 crore and solvency margin at 1.56. The PSU has settled 15.99 lakh claims for the same period and underwritten Rs 7,711 crore in premium. 
 
 Oriental Insurance and National Insurance despite facing much less claims saw both solvency margin and underwriting profits hit. For the half year, Oriental settled 6.24 lakh claims and saw solvency margin drop to 1.14 with a massive underwriting loss of Rs 1,465 crore. National Insurance, which settled 5.31 lakh claims saw solvency at 1.26 while posting a loss of Rs 991 crore.
 
 Oriental and National Insurance’s solvency margins are a matter of concern as they are much below the insurance regulator's mandatory requirement of 1.50.
 
 “The industry has been overlooking two critical aspects — profitability and combined ratio. The premium rates especially in commercial lines of business such as property, fire and group health which drive volumes for insurers have seen severe competition and has seen prices fall to unsustainable levels,” said Tapan Singhel, MD, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance.
 
 
