PATNA: Sixteen   from a cross-section of society on Monday suggested to chief minister   to introduce prohibition-like law against dowry and measures to promote English medium education and marriage on choice for girls.

 Participating in the CM’s Lok Samvad programme here, Shakti Priya wanted measures or law to ensure that girls get married only upon completion of higher education. “Education plays an important role in women empowerment. Though the law in our country prevents marriage below the age of 18 and the state government is also taking various steps, including cycle and school uniform schemes for girls, but I feel women in  , especially those belonging to lower income families, still don’t get the required level of education. Hence, I urge the state government to take steps to ensure that girls are not forced into marriage till they complete higher education, which can be at least till graduation,” said the English teacher from Radiant International School, Patna. 
 
 Reacting to Shakti’s suggestions,   said she raised a valid issue related to fundamental rights of women and the state government would look into the matter. 
 
 Similarly, Kurji resident Amrita Kumari suggested to the state government to undertake extra measures to promote English medium education for girls in Bihar schools, which would enable them to fetch better jobs. 
 
 Astha Parimal (24) from Khusrupur, Patna, requested Nitish to take steps for encouraging girls from Bihar to join the armed forces. “There are still very few women from Bihar in the armed forces and parents, especially in rural areas, don’t support girls to get into the defence services. Besides, lack of sufficient English medium education acts as a constraint for girls in Bihar even if they wanted to join the armed forces,” said Astha. 
 
 Patna-based Gunjan Pandey said the CM should introduce prohibition-like tough law against dowry in Bihar. Begusarai resident   suggested formation of committees in state government’s departments and agencies to monitor the performance of women and rank them accordingly. 
 
 One Abha Choudhary wanted the state government to ensure hygiene for children in schools and educate the girls about “good and bad touch” in primary standards. 
 
