MOHAMMADABAD: Stretching along the Ghazipur-Patna NH19, this constituency may be considered the nerve centre of   politics, where Bhumihars are fi ghting to reclaim lost ground while Muslims and other backward communities, too, are becoming assertive. In simpler terms, it’s a fi ght between Rais and Ansaris, two dominant local families involved in a bitter and bloodsoaked tussle for power.

 For BJP candidate Alka Rai, the widow of slain BJP MLA Krishnanand Rai, this is a fi ght for “Bhumihar prestige”. And she is leaving no stone unturned to ensure that BSP’s Sibghatullah Ansari, the sitting MLA and brother of mafi a don-turned-politician  , is defeated and sent to jail, which she says “is his rightful place”.
 
 The rivalry, which has drawn blood from both sides, reached its turning point in November 2005, when the then sitting MLA Krishnanand Rai and his six supporters were killed. The ripples of the killing were felt far and wide as the infl uential Bhumihar community, to which the slain Rai belonged, erupted in fury in Ghazipur, Varanasi and other adjoining districts.
 
 BJP had staged a fortnightlong protest in Varanasi seeking a CBI inquiry into the case, to which the then SP government fi nally agreed. Mukhtar was convicted for orchestrating the murders and is currently serving a sentence.
 
 Years later,   is staring at a new electoral calculus with BSP and BJP locked in a straight fi ght. For Alka Rai, the road through Bitthal Bazaar in Yusufpur, which leads to ‘Phatak’ is still her biggest hurdle. For ‘Phatak’ is the residence of the Ansari brothers — Mukhtar, Afzal and Sibghatullah — in the Muslim-dominated area.
 
 The front room of the house, dotted with portraits of past Ansari leaders, is the nerve centre. “Our ancestors were freedom fi ghters and martyrs and we are trying to carry on that legacy. We have been vocal about the rights of the poor, who have been suppressed for ages by the upper caste,” said sitting MLA and the eldest of Ansari brothers, Sibghatullah.
 
 While the Ansari brothers have managed to keep a good chunk of Bhumihars on their side against the wishes of many in the community, BJP is banking heavily on Union cabinet minister Manoj Sinha, dubbed a “guiding” fi gure for the Bhumihars in this region. A restive Mohammadabad is always on the edge — differences are settled only through bullets. “The differences are irreconcilable and guns are used with impunity. This has been the history of this region,” said Mangal Yadav, a local.
 
 
