New Delhi: The Election Commission may declare polls to the Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh assemblies in mid-October, setting the stage for the next big BJP-Congress faceoff.

 There are indications that the commission may go for a single-phase, mid-November poll in Himachal , while holding a two-phase exercise in December in Gujarat. 
 
 The EC is also considering simultaneous polls to four Lok Sabha seats — Gorakhpur and Phulpur in UP, vacated by chief minister Yogi Adityanath and deputy CM Keshav Maurya respectively and Ajmer and Alwar in Rajasthan, which fell vacant due to death of sitting MPs — and a few assembly seats depending on preparedness of the state administration and availability of central paramilitary forces.
 
 This is the first time the EC will be holding a set of state polls fully with voter verifiable paper audit trail (VVPAT) machines. VVPATs enable voters to see a printout of the ballot cast. With the poll panel focused on a smooth rollout of 100% VVPAT-based polling in the two states, it has decided not to launch other initiatives such as mandatory counting of paper trail in a fixed percentage of polling stations just yet. 
 
 While the Union cabinet had cleared the draft amendment rules providing for proxy voting by NRIs in August, the initiative will not be launched in the upcoming state polls. The proposed changes in the Representation of the People Act, allowing NRIs to vote from their country of residence through a chosen proxy, are yet to be cleared by Parliament.
 
 The EC is in an advanced stage of preparation for the Himachal and Gujarat polls. While an EC team toured Himachal Pradesh earlier this week to assess its poll preparedness, a visit to Gujarat may happen in the second week of October, followed by the announcement of poll dates soon after.
 
 During its Himachal visit, the common demand put to the poll panel was to hold the polls before mid-November, by when some of the constituencies in the higher reaches may become snow-bound. 
 
 “The sense we got is that at least three constituencies — Lahaul-Spiti, Kinnaur and Bharmour — are likely to receive snowfall latest by mid-November. To avoid the snow from making polling stations hard to access for polling officers as well as voters, the EC is looking to wind up Himachal polls by mid-November,” a source said. Around 10,000 paramilitary troops may be required for the northern state. The EC has already written to the home ministry communicating its force requirements. 
 
 As for Gujarat, the EC may stick to its 2012 format by scheduling polls a month after Himachal. “A month’s gap between polling and counting is not unusual for EC or the voters. There was a gap of more than a month between polling in Punjab held earlier this year and declaration of results, during which simultaneous polling was held over phases in UP, Uttarakhand and Goa,” an EC official said.
 
 A Congress delegation from Gujarat, led by senior leader Ahmed Patel, had recently met the EC and demanded 100% use of VVPATs, mandatory counting of paper trail up to a fixed percentage, deployment of CCTV cameras in polling stations, ensuring anti-social elements were not out on parole during election period and that officers were shifted out of their home districts.
 
 
