NEW DELHI: As the   settles into a three-way tussle with the Samajwadi camp remaining intact and looking set to strike an alliance with Congress,   is banking on a division in Muslim votes to facilitate an important victory. 

  Saffron strategists do not disagree with the expectations in the SP-Congress camp that a pact will make the combine the preferred choice of minority voters, but do not agree that the Muslim vote will move en masse. 
 
 BJP members point out that BSP's decision to field nearly 100 Muslim candidates is significant. Most are not pushovers and are likely to get a slice of support from their community. In fact, BJP sources argue that a splintering of SP may well have seen Muslims backing BSP in large numbers, seeing   as the only credible alternative.
 
  If BJP's assumptions prove incorrect, the party could be in trouble. On the other hand, a division in Muslim votes will prove handy with party members also pointing out that picking the winning "anti-BJP candidate" may not be a simple task. 
 
  BJP sources said the party was confident of retaining its support among agricultural communities like Jats despite some dilution in support. Though Jats retain some attachment to leaders like Ajit Singh, the veteran is no longer the force he was. 
 
 BJP is counting on its big push for non-Yadav backwards castes, many of whom have been inclined to tilt towards BSP, to deliver results. The party may end up giving close to 50% seats to this section of populous OBCs.
 
 The party sees the role of OBCs like Kurmis, Prajapatis, Mauryas, Pals, Rajbhars, Mallahs, Kewats, Kushwahas, Baghels and Lodhs to be vital in deciding the UP election. BJP's bid to woo them vigorously is intended to present the party as an alternative to the domination of Yadavs in SP raj. Here, the party believes that Akhilesh's projection as a break from old style SP politics will have limited impact. 
 
 With no leader capable of ensuring a transfer of votes, BJP has opted not to project a CM candidate. The party feels there is a strong sentiment among the upper castes that the coming election is an opportunity to move away from SP and BSP and this segment understands this will not be possible without OBC backing. 
 
 The argument BJP is offering OBCs is similar, that the party offers a better prospect of partnership in power than outfits where certain backward and Dalit communities will dominate the discourse.
 
 
