KOLHAPUR: District guardian minister Chandrakant Patil on Monday directed the Chhatrapati Pramila Raje (CPR)   to remove all encroachments and illegal parking on its premises.

 Patil met the authorities to discuss the security measures required to avoid any attack on resident doctors. Recently, over 100 resident doctors from the hospital went on mass leave for four days demanding security.
 
 Patil directed the police administration to deploy round the clock security at the hospital. “As per the guidelines of  , the administration is bound to restrict unnecessary vehicles in its premise and barricades should be set up to restrict entry to unnecessary people in the hospital. From Tuesday onwards the hospital will get 24 hour police security and only two relatives of the patients will be allowed in the casualty ward. The pass system should be started to avoid additional people in the casualty and emergency wards,” he said.
 
 Authorities claimed there are over 14 encroachments taken place inside the premises since the last few years and needs to be removed to ensure enough space is made available for additional parking.
 
 Patil said the CPR administration must remove the encroachments from April 1 or else from April 2 the district administration will initiate action. The hospital authorities claimed that owing to lack of machineries and staff, the existing staff is facing severe burden to cater the increasing number of the patients.
 
 Recently, the state government in its budget has sanctioned funds for up gradation of the hospitals attached to the medical colleges and demand of around Rs 40 lakh have been made for   and Rajarshi Chattrapati Shahu Maharaj Medical College (RCSM).
 
 “The CT scan has been activated in the hospital and trauma unit is functional on trial basis which will be made available permanently. We will talk about the issues such as vacancies in the staff and machineries required with the health minister soon,” said Patil.
 
 The state government in October 2014 had sanctioned 69 posts for the CPR Hospital. The administration had claimed that 110 posts needs to be filled immediately for smooth functioning of various departments related to surgery.
 
