MUMBAI: Languages are believed to be a vehicles of progress for their users. But knowledge of Urdu might prove an albatross around the neck of thousands of Urdu medium students who want to pursue medical courses. Recently the   announced that the forthcoming National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) or medical entrance test would be conducted in eight languages (Hindi, English, Gujarati, Marathi, Bengali, Assamese, Telugu and Tamil), excluding Urdu. Understandably, it has caused dismay among the students who cleared HSC (Science) exam in Urdu medium and are preparing for NEET. The ministry is soon to issue the notification and, if Urdu is not included as an option of language for the NEET, the career of thousands will be jeopardized.

 The exclusion of Urdu from the list of language options for medical entrance test is curious. There are several Urdu medium higher secondary schools and junior colleges in states like Maharashtra, Karnataka, Telengana, Andra Pradesh, Delhi,  , Bihar and Jammu & Kashir.   alone has 168 Urdu medium science junior colleges, from which around 11,000 students appear for class XII examination every year. After students, including those belonging to Students Islamic Organi sation of India (SIO) protested the move, Maharashtra's medical education minister Girish Mahajan wrote to the Union Health and Family Welfare Ministry a couple of days ago, requesting it to conduct the NEET in Urdu language too.
 
 “This is not the first time that NEET has excluded Urdu.In 2013 too it had done so but rectified it after the   ruled that Urdu too be included in the list of languages as options for NEET,“ says Shamsuddin Najmuddin, a lecturer at a college in Beed.Najmuddin adds that, through an RTI application, it was found that in 2013 more Urdu medium students appeared for HSC (Science) exam those from Marathi medium. “In 2013, there were 324 Marathi medium students against 7633 Urdu medium students who gave exam for Physics paper conducted by HSC board. This shows there are more Urdu medium students than Marathi medium students in junior college in the state. Yet the state initially forgot to fight for Urdu's inclusion in NEET,“ adds Najmuddin.
 
 Many may argue that the paucity of study material in regional languages may handicap many students who want to qualify for NEET with languages other than Hindi and English. “There are books available in Urdu too for junior college science courses. Also, the National Council for Promotion of Urdu Language (NCPUL), a HRD-funded body , can be asked to get some books translated to fulfill the specific needs of students,“ explains career counsellor  . Hopefully , the Centre will heed these pleas.
 
