SHIMLA: Despite   government having huge debt burden of over Rs 45,000 crore, chief minister Virbhadra Singh has decided to make Dharamshala second capital of the hill state. As the new capital would require huge infrastructure besides the shuttling of ministers, secretaries and officials between Shimla and Dharamshala requiring huge expenditure, the opposition is questioning the logic of the second capital and describing the decision as politically motivated.

 In its report tabled in the state assembly in April last year, Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) had stated that the state government is taking new loans to repay the old ones while the amount available for capital expenditure is decreasing year by year.
 
 Opposition is claiming the state was number one with over 75 awards during their regime and now it has dropped to 22nd position with debts of over 45,384 crore. They said with farmers under stress, unemployment at its peak and failed governance with no vision, Congress government should have addressed such burning issues instead of making politically motivated announcements.
 
 Many feel that with assembly elections due this year, Virbhadra has played the “Kangra card” by announcing Dharamshala as second capital. They said Kangra district has 15 assembly seats out of total 68 while entire   parliamentary constituency has total 20 seats.
 
 Announcement is being seen as an attempt to woo voters of Kangra, Chamba, Una and Hamirpur districts having total 30 assembly seats. In the past, Himachal Pradesh Board of School Education was shifted from Shimla to Dharamshala and now, more offices are likely to be shifted to Kangra as the second capital too would have year-round activities.
 
 BJP is questioning the decision on the ground that when week-long winter session costs around Rs 1.5 crore to Rs 2 crore to state exchequer, then how much it would cost to run the affairs of government from Dharamshala for two months.
 
 Shimla BJP MLA   said instead the state government should spend the money for the development of lower Himachal areas. He said the announcement is only an attempt to divert public attention from the issue of unemployment allowance. He said even Congress minister G S Bali is questioning his own government for failing to pay unemployment allowance after promising the same in the election manifesto. “From which source would the money come for the second capital? This decision was solely taken with elections in mind without considering its financial implications,” he said.
 
 Urban development minister Sudhir Sharma said the decision to make Dharamshala second capital of the state would not put much burden on state exchequer as Dharamshala already has a mini secretariat and secretariat besides Vidhan Sabha. He said the decision would benefit the residents of Chamba, Kangra, Una, Hamirpur and Mandi districts. He said the construction of accommodation for ministers and staff would be completed by March this year. “The only expenditure would be on the travelling of government functionaries while rest of the infrastructure is already available here,” he said.
 
 CPM leader and Shimla deputy mayor Tikender Singh Panwar supported the government decision. He said the second capital is need of the hour as in winters from December to February, no activity takes place in Shimla.
 
 
