VARANASI: For once, Varanasi locked itself from all corners for a major carnival, on Saturday.

 Banarasis looked on as the biggest leaders of political parties crossed each others’ path on the banks of Ganga, covering the busy cobbled-up bylanes, between landmarks Banaras Hindu University in Lanka and the  .
 
 If it was saffron umbrellas and gamchhas, 3-D lifesize posters of Prime minister Modi put up by the BJP, it was a cycle atop vans with cutouts of UP chief minister   morphed into a gladiator and of Congress vice president  .
 
 Till 9 am, when steamers and boats were ferrying buoyant Brahmins and boatmen from Nishad community waving lotus and saffron flags, it was clear BJP had run its script with as much elan as it did in 2014 Lok Sabha elections. And all this was long before Modi arrived at noon.
 
 ‘Har har Modi, ghar ghar Modi,’ chanted BJP's army as the ensconced themselves in tiny shops, perched on terraces of old homes, electricity poles or parapets of business centres, in a throwback to Modi's debut elections.
 
 Though BJP has changed its election discourse with comments on Hindu-Muslim divide including kabrastan and shamshan ghat and discriminatory electric supply on festivals, all eyes there were on Modi’s roadshow as it passed through a prominent Muslim ghetto Madanpura, known for its Bunkars (weavers) who stitch Banarsi sarees for years.
 
 “Bahut zyada utsaah nahi tha. Jab Modi ji 2014 mein lade thhe, aur nomination kiya tha. Hum ne bhi unko vote daala tha (There wasn’t as much as fervour as when Modi filed nomination in 2014),” said weaver Kabir, refusing to take the call on who will win the polls.
 
 By the time Modi took an about turn outside the Kalbhairo temple, SP’s men had stormed the streets. On many occasions, SP's men, sporting ‘Akhilesh ki Army’ shirts had a direct face-off with BJP's supporters.
 
 Despite anti-incumbency, their posse of supporters looked jubilant. They went along distributing sweets, shirts and SP’s red caps.
 
 The SP's meticulously written stock songs ‘Main hoon Akhilesh’ and ‘Apni cycle apna haath, Akhilesh Rahul ka saath’ filled the evening air even as Modi was to return for a town hall meeting.
 
 “Yeh jeet sirf Akhilesh bhaiya aur bhabhi je liye (This will be the victory of Akhilesh and Dimple),” said Vishnu, as he screamed “bhabhi” when Dimple reached Gadoliya Chowk at 7:30 pm
 
 Unlike her counterparts, BSP supremo evidently chose to give the city a miss and instead held her rally on the outskirts of a rural constituency Rohaniya.
 
 Several of her rally’s participants flippantly pointed at a policeman and said the BSP would soon bring back the old practice of removing ‘Yadav’ from nameplates and office timings would begin in morning.
 
