GORAKHPUR: Calling the tie-up between   and Congress an 'impious alliance',   national president   said the the merger was against SP idealogue  's ideologies. 

 After attending rallies in three districts of eastern Uttar Pradesh on Friday- Siddharthnagar, Sant Kabirnagar and Basti, Shah addressed the media in Gorakhpur on Saturday. The saffron party leader said, "It is an impious alliance, which is against ideology of Ram Manohar Lohia, who fought against Congress party all his life. Actually it is an alliance of two corrupt families. The moment Akhilesh formed the alliance, he accepted defeat."
 
 Reacting to chief minister Alkhilesh Yadav's slogan 'kaam bolta hai (our work speaks for itself), Shah said, "He says that his work speaks but UP tops in crime in the country and women in the state feel unsafe. Akhilesh inaugurated the Metro only for the sake of elections. Similarly, the Agra-Lucknow expressway is full of diversions and incomplete but was inaugurated for similar reasons. Do villages in UP get electricity for 24 hours? Is clean, drinking water available in villages? Are farmers selling wheat and sugarcane to the government getting paid timely? If not, then we can't term it as development." 
 
 Taking a dig at the law and order situation under the Akhilesh Yadav-led state government, the BJP national president said, "Akhilesh remains silent on the rape and murder cases against his ministers. The Mathura violence was an open case of corruption and influence of land mafia in the state. Health, education, agriculture and industry all are in bad shape in the state." 
 
 When TOI raised the issue of weavers' decision to boycott elections over past governments' neglect towards their demands, Shah replied, " Not only weavers but the party will also take care of the needs of all kinds of artisans. We have announced various measures for their cause in our vision document."
 
 Shah also gave a lowdown on the saffron party's prospects in the state assembly polls in Uttarakhand, UP, Goa and Manipur. "While west UP witnessed a BJP wave but in east UP there will be BJP tsunami and we will form the government in the UP, Uttarakhand and Goa. The mood of voters in Manipur is yet not clear and in Punjab it is a triangular contest between Congress, BJP and Aam Aadmi Party," he added.
 
 When asked about BJP giving tickets to family members of eminent politicians, Shah said, "There is a lot of difference between Congress and BJP, as in BJP no one is guaranteed a ticket at birth but a candidate gets a ticket only on the basis of the work done by them."
 
 
