HYDERABAD: In what is seen as a major embarrassment for the Telangana government, the   (MCI) has blocked the newly established   from admitting its second batch of 150 MBBS students for 2017-18 for failing to rectify 24 listed deficiencies.

 The move comes even as National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) for undergraduate medical co urse (MBBSdental) is scheduled in May first week, leaving no time for the state-run medical college to fulfil the deficiencies in next two months.
 
 “The executive commit tee of the MCI decided to recommend to the central government not to renew the permission for admission of 2nd batch of 150 MBBS students at government medical college, Mahbubnagar,“ the MCI's executive committee said in a report.
 
 Not surprisingly, Telangana Junior Doctors' Association (TJUDA) has reacted sharply as the denial means a huge loss to the careers of hundreds of meritorious and poor medical aspirants. “The government must immediately rectify the deficiencies pointed out by MCI. If they are not rectified in two months before NEET on May 7, 2017, there would be no chance left,“ said TJUDA president Dr G Srinivas.
 
 However, sources said that the chances of getting all 24 deficiencies rectified in such a short time was remote as some were infrastructure-related shortcomings. They include hostel capacity of only 30 as against the required 47 and residential quarters for only 10 faculty as against 19. Other deficiencies include small demonstration rooms for pharmacology and forensic medicine departments besides lack of audio-visual aids in microbiology department .There are manpower-related deficiencies such as faculty shortage of 30.85%, resident doctors shortage of 17.02%, besides shortfall in nursing and paramedic staff.
 
 The Mahbubnagar government medical college, touted as the first medical college set up under the  , falls in the home district of Telangana health minister Dr C Laxma Reddy .
 
 “If this is the fate of a medical college in the health minister's district, one can imagine the fate of other colleges,“ said a senior government doctor on condition of anonymity .
 
 When TOI contacted Dr M Ramani, director of medical education, she said that it was routine affair. “There will be a compliance inspection in one month. We are hopeful of getting nod,“ she said, adding that the principal has left for New Delhi for a hearing before the MCI.
 
