PANAJI: There are probably few other rooms that can make you feel as insignificant in the larger scheme of things as the geological museum at  . The youngest of exhibits here is a few million years old in geological age, formation of which began before the most primitive of life forms took shape on earth.
 
  Within 250-odd sqm of the museum—one of the largest in geology in western Indian—sits in concise form the story of our planet, one of its most striking exhibits being a dinosaur tooth acquired from Morocco.
  
  Touching exhibits at this museum is not prohibited given the non-fragile nature of most of the samples.
  
  The sample of stromatolite at the museum is 1,000 million years old. Stromatolites, associate professor of GU’s earth science department Anthony Viegas explains, are caused when filaments of algae trap the sand grains, leading to sediments binding together.
  
  One label speaks of a coal sample from the arctic. “It shows that there was vegetation in the arctic at some point of time,” says Viegas.
  
  The folded sample from Bagalkot shows the wavy pattern in a rock caused by compressional forces on a smaller scale than what led to the formation of the  .
  
  “We usually speak in million years,” smiles Viegas.
  
  In contrast to the wavy Bagalkot folded sample are the other rock samples that display deposition of sediments in straight neatly laid layers. One from Paroda in  , shows a ‘fault’ or slight displacement of the layers.
  
  “In Indian geology, there have been two marine transgressions—one on the southeast coast and the other on the west coast. Marine transgressions is when sea invades the land,” says Viegas, who has lost count of the exhibits brought in over the years by students and faculty from field trips across India and from site visits abroad.
  
  The immaculately fossilised marine life exhibits have been brought from Kutch in Gujarat and Tiruchirapalli in Tamil Nadu, whereas the plant fossils are from Gondwana formations in places like Orissa, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and  .
  
  In another exhibit, within the dark basalt sits the rich purple amethyst. “There are hole-like openings—vesicles—left by gas formations in lava deposits. Within these holes there grows a secondary mineral, which is the amethyst in this case.”
  
  One can also view in its raw form lead, the vein like design in which zinc sulphide is found in underground mines, and the chromium veins that are rare in Goa.
  
  The core samples taken for nearly every important project in Goa—from Konkan railways to the Zuari and Mandovi bridges and the various dams—have been preserved here.
  
  Pointing to the asbestos samples from Bondla, Viegas says, “Unlike the common belief, not all asbestos are carcinogenic.”
  
  Corals at the museum include brain corals from Lakshadweep and  .
  
  Then there is the spectacular Makrana marble that went into making the Taj Mahal. Rivaling its beauty are the gems, including amber, formed from resins secreted by pine trees, found mainly in Poland and Russia. The museum’s sample is from  .
  
  “The museum has representation of every formation from the south of Narmada,” adds Viegas.
