NEW DELHI: Poor mobile and internet connectivity as well as impediments to construction of roads in   were highlighted by its district collector at the anti-naxal strategy review meeting, chaired by Union home minister   on Monday.

 Development issues plaguing naxal-infested districts were debated at length at a separate session during the review meeting, Union home secretary Mehrishi told a press briefing. He said a committee under his chairmanship and comprising the chief secretaries and DGPs of affected states has been set up to fine-tune a comprehensive anti-naxal strategy and deliberate on use of technological advancements as a force multiplier. 
 
 Importantly, he ruled out any role for the   in counter-naxal operations, saying the issue did not come up for discussions on Monday. 
 
 During the development strategy review for naxal-hit areas, Sukma collector Niraj Kumar Bansod is said to have raised the practical problems in implementing the   in his district, noting how the thin presence of government agencies as well as persistence of   to damage the roads soon after they are built is hampering the administration’s efforts to improve connectivity within the district. He gave his own example of being forced to take the chopper from time to time, rather than travel by road. 
 
 Another key issue mentioned by the Sukma collector and discussed as a general problem plaguing naxal-infested districts was poor communication services despite erection of over 2,000 mobile towers. A source said the towers offer no more than 2G connectivity and are based on the technology envisaged way back in 2011. “This impairs anti-naxal operations as poor net and mobile connectivity means weak intelligence, delayed response to attacks and failure to use technical aids that require net connectivity,” said an officer who was part of the deliberations on Monday. 
 
 “It was stressed that the technology needed to be upgraded and 3G/4G connectivity provided,” the officer said adding that Phase-II of the installation of mobile towers was now being initiated after incorporating the experiences and problems of Phase I. Fibre optics needed to be laid to ensure proper connectivity in the naxal-infested areas, said a source.
 
 The Sukma collector also brought up the positive difference made by the power ministry’s drive for electrification of its villages. The Centre will now ensure that naxal-hit districts will get a share of the 15 lakh solar lamps it has offered to the states. 
 
 Briefing reporters after Monday’s naxal review meeting, Mehrishi described the naxal menace as a “national problem”, saying there was a need for better coordination among the states and between the Centre and the state government.
 
 Referring to the suggestion given by the home minister to set up unified command for the naxal-hit states, he said there could be a unified command structure among two-three states for better results but that will depend on the ground situation.
 
 He said several states including Bihar suggested that Prevention of Money Laundering Act be reviewed or better utilised to ensure choking of funds to LWE groups. 
 
 During the afternoon development strategy session, Union ministers Nitin Gadkari, Ashok Gajapathi Raju, Piyush Goyal, Manoj Sinha participated in the discussion on issues related to road, air connectivity and electrification of villages in LWE areas.
 
 
