PATNA: Union women and child development minister Maneka Gandhi’s recent remark that hostels need curfews to “prevent hormonal outbreaks” has left many, especially hostellers, baffled. 

 At a panel discussion with a news channel ahead of International Women’s Day, Maneka had said, “When you are 16 or 17, you are also hormonally very challenged. So to protect you from your own hormonal outbursts, perhaps a lakshman rekha is drawn. It really is for your own safety. Girls and boys living in hostels should have their curfew timings as early as 6pm.”
 
 Reacting to the minister’s controversial statement, Anshu Priya, a student of MBBS and hosteller at AIIMS-Patna, said, “You cannot cut a hand to heal a wound. A statement like this from a seasoned politician who has championed the cause of gender equality and women empowerment is unfortunate.”
 
 Lucknow’s Shreya Yadav, a third year student of NIFT-Patna, said students staying in hostels remain busy during the day and go out of the campus for shopping and other necessary works only after their classes. “We can buy groceries, snacks and other items only after finishing our classes at 7pm,” she added.
 
 An ex-hosteller and fourth year student of NIFT-Patna said the minister’s opinion was preposterous. “Can’t biological outburst happen at 2am or 2pm? We are allowed to vote at the age of 18 which is just one year more than what Maneka has mentioned. We can select our representatives at this age, but cannot curb our hormonal outbursts. This is ridiculous,” she said. 
 
 Associate professor of PMCH’s department of endocrinology Surendra Kumar said there is no medical evidence to suggest that hormonal outbursts happen in boys and girls of the mentioned age. “If such an outburst happens, it is normal,” he said. 
 
 The minister, on being asked if increasing security measures help the situation, had also said in the interview, “No, not by two Bihari gentlemen at gate with dandas (sticks). It has to be solved literally by giving time limits for everything.... Give them (boys) two nights to go to the library and two nights for girls (to go to library) if you want to go to library, that is.”
 
 Khyati Shree of CNLU believes that if the main issue is security then that should be the prime focus. 
 
 Dr Talat Halim, medical director of Paras HMRI Hospital, said hormonal changes have a 24-hour cycle – at times low and other times high. “Instead of trying to curb the activities of the young, we should try to channelize their energy into something positive. It is impractical to give them such a curfew timing. Our forefathers were food gatherers and hunters,” he added. 
 
 Patna’s leading sociologist Hetukar Jha says it is practically impossible to stop the young from doing what they want. He said such a rule to subdue adolescents is practically impossible to implement. “The campus can’t be converted into a jail,” he added. 
 
 
