Bengaluru: Scores of students from different medical colleges in the city will hit the streets on Tuesday protesting the government’s move to shift the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences(RGUHS) to Ramanagara. The high court, which had directed the government and the university to meet representatives of colleges opposing the move and arrive at an amicable solution, will also hear the case on Tuesday. According to students, the Ramanagaram DC’s office, where the campus will be shifted in phases as the land in Archakarahalli in the district—the proposed location of the permanent campus—is not yet ready, lacks infrastructure. Amit Hegde, an MBBS student, said: “The results of IInd year MBBS, and third and final year BDS exams held in December are yet to be out. The exams for PG students are scheduled in May while MBBS and dental courses in June. When there are so many immediate issues to be dealt with, we are unsure as to why shifting is a priority.” Another student said with no infrastructure in the DC’s office, it makes no sense to shift the campus before the academic year is over. “Several students are yet to get their certificates, without which they cannot register with the Karnataka Medical Council and the Indian Medical Association, or even get the rural service bonds required to start practising.”  Having managed to secure permission for a protest at the Mysore Bank Circle, the students claimed that they have support from at least 15 colleges and are expecting more than 1,000 students.  The protesters will submit a memorandum to Governor Vajubhai Vala, the chancellor of the university. “If the chancellor fails to intervene, we will be forced to move the court,” they said. ‘No meeting with colleges’ Lakshmy Iyengar, the advocate representing the colleges, said: “Thought the court had directed the government and the university to hold talks with the colleges, there has been no initiative.” She said the court will be appraised of the matter and also about the letter written by the governor to the vice-chancellor.  Ramanagara minister in-charge D K Shivakumar, in a press conference on Saturday, had however said vested interests are preventing the shifting. The government had maintained that the move will create jobs in Ramanagara besides giving the district a university and two hospitals. 