NEW DELHI: Expressing shock at the findings of the Delhi Commission for   on the pathetic state of the inmates of his government’s Asha Kiran Home complex for mentally challenged, chief minister   has sought an urgent report from chief secretary MM Kutty by 4.30 pm today. He wants the   to submit a detailed report and fix responsibility by February 13. Deputy chief minister  , too, visited the home on Monday. 

 In a note issuing directions to the CS, the Delhi CM has said, “I am shocked to see the report in various newspapers today that shows appalling condition prevailing in Asha Kiran Home for the mentally challenged. It is observed that the condition of inmates is extremely miserable. Eleven inmates have died during the last two months.” 
 
 It is further stated by the CM that “on a visit by Delhi Commission for Women, the team found serious overcrowding with up to four patients on a single bed; women inmates walking naked in corridors; CCTV cameras being monitored by male staff; women inmates made to remove their clothes in the open while queuing up for bath; stinking rooms, excreta and urine in the corridors and filthy toilets”.
 
 “I am extremely disturbed by the prevailing conditions reported by DCW and in the media on the Asha Kiran Home. Chief secretary should personally ensure that all these deficiencies are removed within a week to the satisfaction of DCW,” Kejriwal has directed. Chief secretary has been asked to fix responsibility and present a report by 11.00 am on February 13.
 
 The CS has been asked to report on certain concerns by 4.30 pm today. The performance and role of current secretary in-charge of department of social welfare and women and child development, Dilraj Kaur is now under scrutiny. 
 
 The CM has wanted to know how many times had the secretary of social welfare/WCD visited Asha Kiran Home and other two homes for the mentally challenged in the past. 
 
 “Why did secretary social welfare/WCD not bring the deaths to the notice of the government? What steps did she take when each death was brought to her notice? What steps did she take to prevent these serious lapses?,” the CM has sought to know. 
 
