Gurgaon: Very few are aware that   can boast of a past as ancient as India’s. “What Giza is to Egypt, and Athens is to Greece, Haryana should be to India.” So said Surbhi Gupta, one of the speakers at a seminar held in the city on Saturday.

 A roundtable on the archaeological repository (and open-air museum) that is Rakhigarhi argued the case for preserving Haryana’s Indus Civilization heritage, and giving the state a profile in Indian history as big as the one Cairo enjoys within the embrace of Egyptian antiquity.
 
 Shikha Jain – convenor,   (Haryana chapter) – stressed the importance of protecting and promoting the cultural legacy of Haryana, while Gupta – director of Rasika Art & Design, and an architecture historian – asserted it’s time Haryana reclaimed her lost glory, by building a world-class international museum and research centre (construction of which is already under way) that is dedicated to the Indus-Saraswati civilization.
 
 At around 550 hectares, Rakhigarhi is the largest Harappan site in India. Professor Vasant Shinde, vice chancellor of Deccan College (Pune), spoke absorbingly on the extensive excavations undertaken in the area, and pointed out the challenges of working on a location that is also a living settlement.
 
 Indeed, of the seven mounds identified here by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), two are under human habitation (Rakhigarhi has a population of around 10,000). “These two are part of the surviving site, and the most important part of the settlement, so it is important we stop any encroachments, and help preserve the site,” Shinde said.
 
 And research and study of the cultural processes of the early and mature Harappan phases is unlikely to ever stop. “The effort to establish the cultural sequence, and understand settlement patterns – the composition of the population, its health and diet – is ongoing,” explained Shinde.
 
 The villagers of Rakhigarhi might see the ground under their feet as an everyday inconvenience, but it is important to convince them of its benefits, that it’s a living heritage they can be proud of. That was the message from Shinde, and also from Dr Oriel Prizeman, senior lecturer at the Welsh School of Architecture, Cardiff University. “You’re dealing with an immense project here — this site has huge archaeological significance,” she said.
 
 Prizeman’s calling is the sustainable development of historic structures, however modest they may be, in as sensitive a manner as possible. “It is important to integrate people’s lives into excavation projects,” she stressed. 
 
 Meanwhile, Pilar Guerrieri – associate professor, GD Goenka University – spoke about the world ‘minor settlement’ program she’s involved in. India, too, is covered in the ambit of the program, with some 30 villages across the country identified. By helping revitalise the heritage of villages, and allowing villagers to embrace their history, archaeology, Guerrieri emphasised, can help stop migration to cities.
 
 There is, said Gupta, exciting scope to develop tourism around this centuries-old civilization (Rakhigarhi is approximately three hours’ drive from Delhi). And there’s also the opportunity to learn from the practices of the Harappans. 
 
 “They built their drainage system underground, not over – we haven’t learned from them!” lamented Shinde. “But for 5,000 years, we have been following the same food habits.”
 
 The seminar was hosted by the  , and organised by INTACH (Haryana chapter) and the Sushant School of Art and Architecture, in collaboration with the Deccan College, Pune.
 
 
