BENGALURU: Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike records say the civic body has issued 52,000 trade licences. But, the number of   in the city paying VAT runs into lakhs. “This is a clear mismatch and shows that the civic agency does not have the right count of the number of commercial establishments in the city,“ said Pranav MP, a citizen activist from Malleswaram, who compiled the data. 

 The number of commercial establishments without the necessary approval has been going up. Apart from flouting licence norms, a number of them operate from residential localities or ignore building and safety rules. 
  
 The absence of clear commercial zones is another reason for rampant commercialization of neighbourhoods. “Gone are the days when people from across the city went to   or Brigade Road to hang out. Today , Indiranagar, Jayanagar and   are mini towns. To serve the needs of the growing population there, dedicated commercial zones within these areas is necessary ,“ said N Chikkanna, chairman, Karnataka State Centre of the  . “There is nothing wrong in planning dedicated commercial hubs in such areas so that the entire neighbourhood is not ruined,“ he said. 
 
 In a random survey that   conducted in 2014, the civic body found that not even 1% of buildings conform to sanctioned plans and other rules. In December 2016, BBMP issued a circular directing illegal commercial establishments in residential areas to shut shop voluntarily following a high court directive and sustained pressure from citizen groups. 
 
 “The council committee to be formed will look into the problems pertaining to trade licences,“ Dr Lokesh MN, chief health officer, BBMP, said.“Following the December 2016 order from the BBMP commissioner, we issued notices to illegal commercial occupants in residential areas. Since the formation of the committee was announced, we stopped issuing notices. We have to wait for the committee's recommendations before we proceed. We have around 50,000 commercial establishments with licences from BBMP,“ Lokesh said.
 
 Civil engineering consultant and urban expert R Na gendra said the city is witnessing the fallout of failure in town planning and governance. “I blame building owners in these residential areas as they encourage such violations by renting their properties for commercial usage. Authorities too should step up. Nothing should stop them from implementing existing rules to save the city,“ he said.
 
 Nagendra suggested that the civic agency involve residents' welfare associations while designing local area plans. “If you ignore the citizen's knowledge, any plan for the city will fail,“ he said.
 
