MUMBAI: As the metropolis swelters, peak demand for electricity in the island city and the suburbs has shot up by 10-15%. Power utility firms such as BEST,   and   have made extra arrangements to procure more electricity to ensure uninterrupted supply despite heavy demand. 

 "There is an urgent need for every electricity consumer—be they residential or commercial—to conserve energy during periods of extreme temperature,” said BEST general manager Jagdish Patil. “We have made adequate arrangements to procure extra power (around 150-250 MW) apart from our regular power purchase of 932MW for island city between Colaba and Sion-Mahim.”
 
 The normal supply of power in the entire city was between 2,500MW and 3,000MW, and the peak demand required a supply of up to 3,400MW during summer. The demand may cross the 4,000MW-mark in a few years, say experts, attributing it to the increasing use of air-conditioners and other appliances in every household. “In the suburbs alone, the peak demand was 1,627MW last summer and this could cross the 1,700MW-mark this time, as there is a sudden rise in day temperature lately,” said a Reliance Energy official. “With the biggest population of 24 lakh consumers across suburbs, we have already made arrangements for buying 1,262MW power through long-term power purchase, and an additional 250MW so that consumers can beat the summer heat.”
 
 A Tata Power official said the firm will source more power from its own generating plants at Trombay and from outside Mumbai to cater to the increasing demand of 6.7 lakh consumers in Mumbai during summer. Past surveys have revealed that during summer, a Mumbai home may consume 40% more electricity on the hottest days, said a power expert. Since weather can’t be controlled, power utility firms are now advising consumers on how to conserve energy. One of the most efficient way is to use air-conditioners at 24-26 degrees. Cleaning AC filters at regular intervals and using tinted glass or solar films on windows also help save 40% energy. Officials have also suggested that consumers use electrical appliances in the “stand-by mode”, as this consumes less energy. They should make it a practice to switch off ACs, televisions, washing machines from the plug point when not required.
 
