BHUBANESWAR: The  ,   in tribal and   are some of the thrust areas for the BJD as it tries woo voters ahead of the  . 

 "The Centre's policy on Mahanadi, Polavaram, tribal and backward region development are against the interest of Odisha. We would continue to fight against the Centre (to protect the interest of Odisha) on these issues," BJD president and   said while addressing the party's coordinators-cum-observers for the rural polls.
 
 Around 100 leaders attended the meeting that was convened to chalk out strategies as the party's star campaigners hit the trail. To draw support during the elections, the BJD president has reportedly asked the observers to take issues of central neglect to the public.
 
 Stating that the BJD is confident of repeating success in the forthcoming panchayat polls, Naveen has asked the party to popularize the government's welfare schemes like Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana, Mukhya Mantri Sadak Yojana, Biju Setu Yojana, Biju Gram Jyoti Yojana and others.
 
 "People have appreciated our welfare programmes as we believe in action, not in words. We are making efforts to fulfil the promises made before the 2014 elections. We would fulfil all the promises by 2019," Naveen added.
 
 Senior party leaders including Surya Narayan Patro and Prasanna Acharya briefed the observers about the campaign strategy. "The party has finalized a guideline to ensure victory of party candidates in many zilla parishads. The coordinators-cum-observers would follow the guidelines," Patro said.
 
 According to party insiders, the coordinators-cum-observers have been appointed to strike a balance between the local MLA and the rebel faction, if any.
 
 "Internal conflict is at its peak in the party due to ticket distribution to zilla parishad candidates and selection of candidates for sarpanch and samiti members. This has given rise to a rebel group in almost all assembly segments, which may cost the party. The coordinators-cum-observers have been appointed to strike a balance among different groups and to involve the local leaders in the party's campaigns," a leader said, requesting anonymity.
 
 The party has finalized a list of 40 star campaigners, including party president Naveen and a dozen of film stars, to campaign for the BJD's candidates.
 
 
