MYSURU: One would think a police academy is a safe place.Not really. Bathroom fittings have gone missing from the   ( ), right from under the nose of cops and the thief, or thieves, have left no clues.

 The theft was discovered on Friday by a group of inspectors who had come to the auditorium for a yoga session. After a strenuous workout, they went to the restrooms on either side of the main hall to wash up and to their surprise, found the taps missing! The locks on the doors have been removed too, leaving holes. The inspectors immediately informed the KPA authorities.
 
 Nazarbad police inspector M L Shekar said a total of 24 steel taps, seven hangers and two door locks had been stolen from the restrooms of the KPA auditorium, according to the complaint by KPA authorities.
 
 The KPA campus is spread over 40 acres and the auditorium is located left of the entrance. Officers above the rank of sub-inspectors are given basic training at the institution. The auditori um door is kept locked but a glass window was kept open for ventilation and the thief may have climbed in through the gap, officers suspect. The inspectors who alerted authorities are on a four-weeklong promotion course.
 
 Employees who cleaned the premises said the taps were intact on Thursday . “We suspect that the miscreant jumped the compound wall to enter the campus,“ said an officer, adding, “As per our assessment, taps fitted in the bathrooms were of local brand and may not have costed too much.“
 
 The auditorium was built three years ago and is kept closed barring the occasional training session. The auditorium is far from the main office and no men are posted there. “We have initiated an internal inquiry as an incident of theft has happened on the police academy premises,“ a police officer said.“We have come to conclusion that the miscreant entered through a glass window next to main glass door. The main door was locked and there is no other way to gain entry .The Police Training College was shifted here from Bengaluru in late 1950s and was rechristened in the early 1990s.
 
