Two days after Mumbai Mirror reported Team India head coach  's demands of captaincy fees for   and a position for himself on the selection committee, the Board of Control for Cricket in India ( ) on Thursday showed Kumble and the team who's the boss.

 The BCCI invited applications for the head coach's post, sending a reminder to Kumble that he will not get an automatic extension after his term expires at the end of the Champions Trophy next month.
 
 Interested candidates have been asked to apply by May 31 and will be interviewed by the Cricket Advisory Committee (CAC) of  ,   and  .
  
 The BCCI, in a release, said it wanted to "ensure a fair and completely transparent process" even as the board sources told Mumbai Mirror that the board members were peeved at Kumble's frequent presentations on the wage structure for the players, salary hike demands, and his insistence on expanding the ambit of 26% players' share from the Board revenues.
 
 "The BCCI members clearly think that Kumble's conduct reeks of unionism," the source said. "Some of his demands have been simply inexplicable," the source added.
 
 India had a great domestic season under Kumble, winning 10 out of the 13 home Tests with two draws and a lone defeat against Australia on a rank turner at Pune. Under Kumble, India won a Test series comprehensively in the West Indies, and regained the number one ranking in Tests.
 
 The move to advertise for the head coach's position is seen as a move to send out a message to Kumble, more of a rap on the knuckles for his "extra-curricular activities", a board source said, even as several BCCI members are so bitter with the legendary former leg-spinner that they would rather see him replaced.
 
 A senior BCCI functionary this newspaper spoke to minutes after applications were invited for the head coach's position said, "If you ask me, I don't want him to continue. His focus has been beyond the core areas of a coach's jurisdiction."
 
 The BCCI members have also not gotten over the fact that Kumble was instrumental in giving key suggestions to the Supreme Courtappointed Lodha Committee, which eventually led to the appointment of the Committee of Administrators (CoA) to oversee the BCCI's functioning.
 
 Interestingly, the CoA has excellent equation with Kumble, and sees "wisdom and merit" in his ideas and suggestions. Sources said in all likelihood, Kumble will be offered a two-year extension, till the 2019 World Cup. "Sourav, Sachin and Laxman know what is best for Indian cricket. They were the ones who had picked Kumble ahead of Ravi Shastri last year," the source said, adding the procedure was, in fact, not followed then. "There cannot be a one-year contract. It has to be a minimum of two years, if not three," the source said. It is likely that a similar procedure will be followed for the assistant coaches as well.
 
 While Kumble and Team India have already reached England for the Champions Trophy, and Kohli appeared guarded when asked about Kumble's contract - "I literally don't have any more information on it because there is a committee that takes those decisions, and they're following the same pattern that's been followed in the past as well," he said - the BCCI sources said Kumble was informed beforehand that he will have to go through a fresh round of selection process.
 
 
 
 
 
 beat West Indies 2-0 in West Indies in Jul-Aug 2016
 beat New Zealand 3-0 at home in Sep-Oct 2016
 beat England 4-0 at home in Nov-Dec 2016
 beat Bangladesh 1-0 at home in Feb 2017
 beat Australia 2-1at home in Feb-Mar 2017
 
 
 
 beat New Zealand 3-2 at home in Oct 2016
 beat England 2-1at home in Jan 2017
 
 
 
 lost to West Indies 1-0 in USA in Aug 2016
 beat England 2-1at home in Jan-Feb 2017
 
