GURGAON: Five notorious   were arrested from a chicken farm in Habelpur village on the outskirts of Hisar on Friday, as a part of an on-going probe into two   in the city. The five were also wanted in connection with at least 16 murders across Haryana and neighbouring states. The most heinous criminal among the lot is believed to be   alias   alias  . Satish, who has been wanted since he jumped parole eight years ago, is accused of involvement in eight murders, police said.

 The criminals were arrested by a special investigation team (SIT), set up to probe the murders of   on March 3 this year, and   on November 10, 2015.
 
 Cops said Satish, a resident of Killod in Sonipat, is said to have been involved with several gangs, though he also committed crimes while unaffiliated. Cops said there was a Rs 1 lakh reward by state police on Satish, after he jumped parole from a Sonipat jail in 2009. He was wanted for several murders in Haryana, and two in Uttarakhand. He was given a life term by Punjab and Haryana high court for the murder of two people in his own village. During his time in jail, he killed one of his associates, Jassu, in 2000. 
 
 According to police, Satish had got married and started living like a Sikh in Rudrapur in Uttarakhand. But he kept visiting Haryana to commit crimes. Commissioner of police (CP) Sandeep Khirwar said Satish also spearheaded an inter-state extortion racket, which they have now suppressed. The motive behind a number of the murders is suspected to be extortion.
 
 Of the eight murders which cops have tracked to Satish, two were committed in Gurgaon, three in Sonipat, one each in Rohtak and Jind, and two in Uttrakhand. Two murder attempts have also been traced to him.
 
 Another criminal arrested on Friday was Arvind (28) alias Pandit alias Kala, resident of Balmand in Hisar, who carried a Rs 50,000 reward by state police, who is wanted for nine murders, including of Bhushan and Sethi, and one committed within Hisar court premises in 2015.
 
 During the raid, cops recovered two revolvers and a pistol — one imported and two country-made — along with ammunition and a Swift car. Further details of their arrest were withheld, as police said they were chasing more gangsters on the run as part of the probe.
 
 Another arrested gangster, Naresh (32) alias Pehelwaan, resident of Narnond in Hisar, was allegedly “harbouring” the gang in the chicken farm. Naresh was being probed by Delhi Police under MCOCA. He is allegedly involved in three murders in Haryana and Rajasthan.
 
 The two others arrested, Surender alias Fauji of Jhajjar and Ashwini alia Panny of Najafgarh, were also wanted for several murders in Haryana and Rajasthan, including those of Bharat Bhushan (both) and Raju Sethi (Ashwini).
 
 CP Khirwar lauded the cops involved in the operation, including DCP (crime) Sumit Kuhar, crime units of Sector 10 and Farrukhnagar, and the cyber crime unit, for “meticulously planning and conducting the arrests”. He said, “The gangsters were part of a nebulous set of gangs. Satish has even been associated with the Mahesh Attack gang.” Cops took the arrested on remand, after producing them before the magistrate on Friday evening.
 
