Bhopal: Ten-year-old progeria patient   has a wise head on his little shoulders. As chairman of Madhya Pradesh Commission for Protection of Child Rights for a day, he won hearts and minds with his quick judgement — and can count a VVIP among his fans. Chief minister   was so moved by the boy that he arrived ‘uninvited’ at the event and promised that the state would bear the medical expenses of all such children.

 A beaming Shreyas said: “One wish has been fulfilled. Now I want to meet  .” The mega star had delivered a moving performance as a progeria-affected child in ‘Paa’.
 
 Progeria is a rare genetic disorder that leads to early ageing. “I am happy that I could help some aggrieved people,” said Shreyas after a tiring but exciting day.
 
 Among the guests were women and child development minister Archana Chitnis and education minister Deepak Joshi, but it was the sudden arrival of the CM that triggered a citywide buzz about the event at Samanvay Bhavan.
 
 Shreyas chaired a workshop on protection of child rights, RTE and Juvenile Justice. Chouhan watched as the little boy confidently issued orders on serious issues. The audience sat speechless, moved. There truly was pin-drop silence in the hall and the only voices you heard were Shreyas’ and those seeking redress.
 
 A Class 10 girl complained about the harassment and threats she and her mother were facing from some 20 goons. The Mahila Thana had not accepted their complaint, she said. Shreyas quickly ordered a probe. Visibly moved, the CM said progeria children would get free medical care in Madhya Pradesh, and ordered his staff to provide the “best of treatment” to the 10-year-old.
 
 Shreyash, a Jabalpur boy, studies in a normal school in Class VI. MCPCR chairman Raghvendra Sharma and the MP government appointed him chairman of the council on Friday. “We did not expect the CM’s visit due to his hectic schedule. But it seems fate has taken a turn for Shreyas and the CM came to meet him unexpectedly,” said Sharma.
 
 Teachers and education officers vented their concerns at the education facilities in MP after getting support from NCPCR member  . “Engaging teachers in making voters’ list in the name of voting duty is against the rules. If the government is doing so, action needs to be taken by education department now,” Kanoongo said. Though Madhya Pradesh is doing its best for children under RTE, it’s also true that it is paying one of the lowest reimbursements for its children, he pointed out.
 
 
