Ludhiana: A man who needed money to finance his drug addiction allegedly offered his wife to seven of friends who took turns to rape her and even clicked her nude pictures. 

 Dakha police have booked the seven accused after conducting an inquiry following a complaint by the woman in June. The woman’s husband has also been booked under Section 120B (criminal conspiracy).
 
 The accused, who are drug addicts as well, and the rape survivor belong to the same village.
 
 Police officials said in her police complaint to SSP (Ludhiana Rural) in June this year, the 22-year-old woman alleged that her husband, whom she married in 2011 and had a child from him, was addicted to drugs and took money from few youths in the same village to sustain his addiction and offered her to them in return.
 
 Police added that the accused would also run domestic expenses from the same money.
 
 Police officials said the accused had taken lewd pictures while raping her and later started to blackmail her. They added that fed up with the sexual assault by the miscreants, the victim lodged a complaint with the police.
 
 After getting a written complaint from 22-year-old woman, SSP (Ludhiana Rural) marked an enquiry to DSP (detective (D)) Jagraon who after investigating the matter recommended lodging of a case against the accused.
 
 Dakha Police have booked the accused under Section 376 (rape) and 120 B (criminal conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code (IPC).
 
 ASI Nagar Singh, acting SHO, said the accused are yet to be arrested and police have conducted raids to nab them.
 
 The grandfather of the rape survivor said his son (girls’ father) had died 17 years old back. Her mother had also left her and married someone else. He added that after raising her, he got her married in 2011.
 
 Later he came to know that her granddaughter’s husband was hooked to drugs. He added that he has heard that all the accused are drug addicts.
 
 A family member of the victim said that the accused persons had also helped her husband after his brother suffered injuries in a road accident and wanted him to pay back. He added that her husband then offered his wife to them who raped her and took pictures as well.
 
 
