NEW DELHI/HYDERABAD: The   over division of assets and liabilities between the two Telugu states took yet another ugly turn in Delhi on Monday with both   and   making yet another bid to take possession of the   located inside the AP-Telangana Bhavan at Ashoka Road.

 Both the states having been claiming that the RC Bungalow belongs to them and Monday saw AP officials break the lock put by Telangana leading to the latter lodging a complaint of 'trespass' against AP with the Tilak Marg police station.
 
 What has added to the controversy is that successive resident commissioners of both AP and Telangana have not been staying there, making it a prized possession. According to Telangana officials, post bifurcation, the Swarnamukhi and Godavari blocks have been apportioned between AP and Telangana as per a formal order. The remaining buildings such as the office premises, legal cell, residential quarters for staff and office and residence of the resident commissioner have to be divided between the two in the ratio of 58 per cent (for AP) and the remaining 42 per cent for Telangana. A bout a month ago, the “ministry of home affairs informed us that contrary to the ratio that should have been followed, about 68 per cent property of undivided AP Bhavan is with AP, while it should have only 58 per cent. This left only 34 per cent for Telangana.
 
  Recently, we noticed the movement of some suspicious persons even during the night near Sabari block. We came to know that it was going to be given for stay to unidentified people by the AP officials which is a serious security concern as there is only 8-feet road that separates the governor's dining room in Sabari block and the RC Bungalow. So, not wanting to take any chance, we locked the bungalow on Saturday. The RC Bungalow belongs to Telangana,“ Telangana Bhavan assistant commissioner G Ram Mohan told TOI over phone from Delhi.
 
 According to Telangana officials, on Monday morning, AP officials broke the lock and put one of their own. “We videographed the whole incident and lodged a complaint of trespass with the Tilak Marg police on Monday evening,“ they said. AP officials insisted that it belongs to them. “Anything could be sorted out through discussions.There can be no security threat for anyone inside the premises as it is guarded by Te langana security officials for 15 days a month and by AP security officials the other 15 days. 
 
 The kind of language they have used against is uncalled for,“ M V Rangaiah, special officer, AP told TOI.The impasse continues and both sides are waiting for intervention from their higher officials in Hyderabad and Vijayawada. While the resident commissioners of AP and Telangana have separate offices, the RC Bungalow, which is the residence, has remained vacant even since Shashank Goel vacated the premises after serving as the last resident commissioner of united AP. Since then, IAS officers Veena Ish and A K Singhal from the AP side and Arvind Kumar from Telangana have been staying.
 
