NAGPUR: The convocation ceremony of  , Nagpur, will be held at the college at 11 am on Wednesday.   has stood first from the college with 95.75% marks. Abhyankar also ranks sixth from the state in all branches and second from the electronics and  . 

 She will be awarded with a gold medal and 10 awards at the 19th convocation of Government Polytechnic. 
 
 “I am really feeling happy and satisfied that I chose polytechnic as a career after my SSC. It has provided me with a lot of exposure and a clear picture of my future,” said Abhyankar.
 
 An all-rounder, Abhyankar has also been involved in sports and other activates. She has been secretary of the college’s sports wing of girls and chairman of events management team of students. “I was good in academics which helped me a lot. I used to take notes in the classroom and regularly read them at home,” she said. While giving importance to practical knowledge, she said, “Practical knowledge is the key to success as it also strengthens the knowledge of theory.”
 
  and diploma distribution event is organized by the college. 725 students will be conferred with the diplomas at the event. Total 29 sponsored awards will be presented to the 21 students with extraordinary performance in their respective fields. Kaushik Bawankar from Mechanical Engineering scored 95.13%, Swaran Ramteke from Metallurgical Engineering scored 94.25%, Akash Thakre from Automobile Engineering scored 94.81% and many other students will be presented with medals and awards at the event. 
 
 Pramod Yeole pro vice-chancellor Nagpur University will be the chief guest at the event and Gulab Thakre joint director, Technical Education, Regional Office Nagpur will also reside at the event. The GPN is also awarded with ISTE Narsee Monjee Award for Best Overall Performance from Indian Society of Technical Education, New Delhi, and Best technical institute in Maharashtra by National Maharashtra Education Summit and Awards-2016 in association with AICTE, New Delhi. “ This college is reaching new heights as all the departments are shining with toppers, the new MOU’s will help this institute to grow,” said Thakre at the press conference on Tuesday.
 
 The other toppers from Government Polytechnic, Nagpur, are Swapnil Lade (91.69% in civil engineering), Pranay Raut (94.75% in mechanical engineering), Chhagan Sohliya (92.69 in electrical engineering), Rasika Diwate (93.69% in electronic and telecommunication engineering), Priyanka Sutar (89.69% in information technology and Naval Rajas (92.81% in automobile engineering). 
 
