The much-awaited   film Bangaara s/o Bangarada Manushya, produced by   Combines, hits the screens today. Yogi G Raj’s second directorial sees   in the lead role along with 40 other artistes playing pivotal characters. Yogi tells us, “The film addresses all sections of society even as it highlights the one main aspect of all our lives.”

  The film has been shot in locations that portray three different kinds of life as it were. “Shivarajkumar plays an influential businessman who lives abroad. So, a large part of the first half of the film has been shot in places like Italy, Milan, Venice and Switzerland. The story then brings him back to India where you experience city life as it is. And later shifts to our roots — the village. One discovers the true meaning of the tagline of the film — Born for the people — through his journey here,” explains Yogi.
 
  For Yogi, this film has been important in many ways. “Firstly, it is a commercial film that also has the protagonist standing up for a cause that affects all our lives. As urban dwellers, it is so easy for us to take our basic necessity, like food, for granted. At a time and age when the biggest source of food — our farmers — are in so much trouble, we do not stop to think what would happen if there were no farmers in our country. We need to do our bit to save and respect the work they put in for us. I was keen on casting only Shivarajkumar for this role because when he speaks, people listen,” he says. Another reason that makes this special is the fact that the title of the film involves Shivarajkumar’s father Dr Rajkumar, who played the lead role in Bangarada Manushya. “And then there are my producers. It was their dream to work with Shivarajkumar and I am honoured to be part of the film that has them working together. It is a pleasure to work with producers like Jayanna and Bhogendra who understand the requirements of filmmaking so well, and therefore ensure complete support from day-one till after the release as well. I am lucky to have got such a good team,” says Yogi.
 
  With an out-and-out entertainer, backed by an energetic team, including music director V Harikrishna, this venture is set to pass on the energy to its viewers at the theatres from today.
