CHANDIGARH: The Central Board of Secondary Education is cracking down on truancy.

 The board is ready to begin a mass school inspection drive in all Tricity schools affiliated to it to check the regularity with which students attend classes, the aim being to end the culture of dummy admissions.
 
 Dummy admissions involve students enrolling for plus-two courses but spending their time preparing for competitive entrance exams like JEE and medical entrance tests instead of attending classes.
 
 The schools were told about this at a recent meeting convened by the   regional officer (RO), the first such meeting of school heads called by the board in years. 
 
 The RO made it clear at the meeting that no school should indulge in admission irregularities or exploit parents, should be vigilant during examinations, ensure a fair evaluation process and operate as community service organisations instead of money-spinning businesses.
 
 “I will not disclose anything in detail for now, but we will be taking steps to stop this culture. Schools must prepare themselves as we will be monitoring student attendance to assess their regularity. We cannot interfere in the admission process by telling them who, or who not, to admit, but we will see if the student is going to school or not,” Panchkula RO   told TOI. 
 
 “Schools are meant to pass on certain values to students, but in the dummy culture children are away from this value-imparting system. So, to discuss such issues, we called a meeting of principals of all Tricity schools. We wanted to educate schools not to do anything not permissible under the rules and to work for the benefit of society,” he added.
 
 How the inspections will be carried out is yet to be decided. The Chandigarh administration, too, formed a committee recently to frame policy to regulate   institutes and academies in the city. TOI had reported in February that the aim was mainly to stop the practice of dummy admissions, to stop coaching centres from holding classes during school hours, and to discourage tie-ups between coaching institutes and schools. A three-member committee comprising deputy commissioner Ajit Balaji Joshi, director of higher education Jitender Yadav and director of school education Rubinderjit Singh Brar was formed for this purpose during the state advisory council’s recent meeting. 
 
