CHANDIGARH: Granting interim bail to one of the eight accused in Punjab’s Rs 1,000-crore  , retired chief engineer Gurdev Singh  , the   and   high court on Friday said that bail pleas of all accused would be heard for final disposal on October 9.

 The high court directed Syan to join the investigation and cooperate with the vigilance bureau in probing the scam. Justice A B Chaudhari also preponed the date of hearing in the other two pending bail petitions to October 9, from November 14. He made it clear that no adjournments would be given to any party on that date.
 
 Justice Chaudhari passed these orders in the wake of a petition filed by Syan seeking anticipatory bail citing the earlier orders where two other accused in the case were granted relief of interim bail. These include XEN Bajrang Lal Singla and retired chief engineer Harvinder Singh.
 
 On August 17, Punjab vigilance bureau had booked contractor   and seven others retired and serving engineers for cheating causing a loss worth crores to the state exchequer through favoured tendering of irrigation department projects. Since then all the accused were on the run. Earlier, Mohali court had rejected bail pleas of all the accused.
 
 Other accused who are still on the run include XEN Gulshan Nagpal, supervisor Vimal Kumar Sharma, retired chief engineer Paramjit Singh Ghuman and retired SDO Kaminder Singh Deol.
 
 Counsel for the Punjab government on Friday argued that the scam in the irrigation department had cost the state Rs 1,000 crore. The state counsel vehemently opposed the bail.
 
 After hearing both the parties, Justice Chaudhari observed that bail cannot be granted in parity with two previous orders which were passed ex parte.
 
 The court, however, granted interim bail observing, "At any rate, looking to the fact that the entire documentary evidence in the case is with the department and, for want of time, could not be placed before this court, it would be unjust to deny ad interim order limited to some days."
 
