
The focus of FM Jaitley's   has been to boost infrastructure and the rural economy. The benefits to consumption would, therefore, accrue over the long term but there are some clear pointers for companies as they plan for the next several quarters. 
 
  What has changed in the near term? The first clear intent is to boost incomes in the rural economy. Rural markets have been a cause for concern lately and the impact of demonetisation hasn't helped matters. Euromonitor figures reveal rural consumer spends have contracted from a growth of 12% in 2015 to 10.9% in 2016. Research reports suggest the average rural wage rate, too, has grown less than inflation in the last three years. 
 
  The proposal to enhance the allocation of MNREGA to an all-time high of Rs 48,000 crore puts more money in the pockets of the rural economy. This, along with a host of other benefits like higher agri-credit and higher insurance benefits for crop damages, will improve the safety net and hopefully catalyse rural spending. Companies that already have a strong rural presence will benefit. It will be a call to those who don't target this emerging consumer base. 
 
  Other proposals, specifically those around infrastructure creation, are to be lauded, especially as overall capital expenditure is proposed to be increased by 25%. These assets - like investments in highways and airports - are critical to reducing costs of the movement of goods and people. It will also improve the economy's overall competitiveness. These will take a longer time to work their way into the system and boost consumption and growth. 
 
  What the budget ignored was providing short-term impetus to consumer spending, especially in urban areas. This would have been critical to get the private sector capital investment cycle going, which is not going to happen until capacity utilisation moves up. The automobile industry, for instance, witnessing slower growth (7% growth in 2016 over 7.7% in 2015) of passenger cars in local market (SIAM) and disruption caused by technology, would have liked a friendly hand. That unfortunately was missing. 
 
  Hints at greater liberalisation with the abolition of FIPB, alongside legislative priority to contract farming and improvement in labour laws, point towards a continued push on ease of doing business. This is positive. The FM's commitment to a calibrated approach to fiscal deficit should be commended. 
 
  To use a cricket analogy, this was a very good knock that preserved the momentum of government's economic policies, but it may not stand out in terms of accelerating the run rate. 
 
  
 
 
