CHENNAI: Over the last few months, women in Trichy have been protesting against several  . "At one   here, which is supposed to open at noon, they secretly start selling alcohol from 6 am, and they sell a quarter for Rs 30 more," says Latha, of Makkal Adhigaram, an outfit that works to promote social causes.

 Last year, late chief minister J Jayalalithaa had signed an order to reduce the time limit for sales.
 
 Latha recalls that police promised action, after the protests. "They stopped selling alcohol in the morning for a week but then started again. Now the police have said that if they open the shop early again, we can go lock it up," she says.
 
 Four days ago, women protested against a shop in Kattur, near Trichy. “The outlet had the board of a grill works shop, but inside they were selling alcohol. After our protest, the Collector's PA came and promised action," she says.
 
 In recent months, a series of agitations against liquor shops, spearheaded by women, have sprung up across the state, especially after the Supreme Court ordered closure of all liquor shops within 500 metre of highways. In 2015, the state witnessed a spate of anti-liquor protests, some of which turned violent. In July that year, Gandhian and prohibition campaigner Sasi Perumal died during a protest. Several traders associations and political parties had joined the agitation and had called for bandhs.
 
 Last week, in Coimbatore, residents protested against the relocation of   outlets to residential localities and temples. A majority of the protesters were women. AIDWA district president Amudha Selvakumar, says after three years of protests by activists nearly 200 outlets have been closed across TN. "We will continue to fight against outlets near schools, residential areas, temples and areas where the risk of accidents taking place is high," she says.
 
 At Ranganathapuram, a heavily-populated locality in Coimbatore, she says, "women find it difficult to go get water or go to shops to buy things as they have to hear rude comments from drunk men in the area."
 
 Further, "many men spend all the money they earn on alcohol and give nothing to the family. Women who have jobs are able to support the family with their earnings, but that is not the case with many," she says. Latha adds, "The men get drunk and pass lewd comments about women, and poke fun at children.”
 
 AIDWA members took part in the recent protest at Samalapuram in Tirupur, during which a senior police officer was caught on camera slapping a woman protester, after police used force to remove agitators. Residents had protested against shifting of a TASMAC outlet from the highway to their area,
 
 PMK leader and MP Anbumani Ramadoss has now called for all cases on people who have been protesting against liquor shops and those who were arrested, to be withdrawn. CPM state secretary G Ramakrishnan says that a lot more women are coming forward to protest this time around. 
 
 
