MUMBAI: The Bombay   has rejected a petition by an student seeking relaxation of   qualifying   in the reserved category so that he can apply for   admissions. The third year engineering student of Kolhapur Institute of Technology, has been unable to clear his examinations and had appeared for the common entrance test for fresh admissions when it looked like he would have to repeat course. The student urged that the qualifying percentage for Physics-Chemistry-Mathematics in HSC in the reserved category be brought down from 45 percentage to 40 percentage.

 “When the state has fixed the minimum eligibility criteria to maintain standards of a particular curriculum, it is not expedient in the interest of justice to interfere with the same and to relax the said standards in favour of the petitioner,” said a division bench of Justice Anoop Mohta and Justice Bharati Dangre. The bench said that the student had not made out any exceptional case and “rather is intending to take advantage of his own wrong as he is not able to clear the engineering examinations and wants to compete again after three years on the basis of norms which were in existence prior to three years.”
 
 In 2013 the student has passed his HSC with 48.67% and had scored 59 marks out of 200 in his CET. He had obtained   in KTT in the reserved category and is currently in the third year of engineering. He was asked to appear for his first year exams again as he did not clear the examinations allegedly due to ill health. Faced with the prospect, he again appeared for the CET earlier this year. The state directorate of technical admission rejected his application as he did not meet the eligibility criteria of 45% in PCM for reserved category candidates. In his petition he sought a relaxation of rules as was done in 2013 by the state government for that year. 
 
 The HC said the   had no merit. “We do not find any justification for relaxing norms in favour of the petitioner as there may be many students who might have been deprived of admissions by applying yardstick of minimum score,” said the judges.
 
 
