PATNA: DIG (central range) Shalin has claimed to make a thorough probe into the irregularities and corruption in settlement of   in the state. The Patna high court on Friday appointed Shalin as officer of the court for conducting probe into different aspects of sand mining in Bihar, especially Patna and Bhojpur districts, which form a significant part of the sand mining belt.

 “I have commenced the preparations for making requisite progress in the work assigned to me by the court for probing the allotment of sand mining lease and corruption involved in it. I will submit the report to the court within the targeted time frame of four months,” Shalin told TOI on Saturday. 
 
 Earlier on Friday, Justice Ahsanuddin Amanullah, while hearing a petition filed by Sunil Kumar Singh and others in this matter, directed Shalin to conduct a thorough probe into the settlement of sand mining lease in the state right from settlement to enforcement. The court stated that Shalin should be deemed to be an officer of the court and Bihar DGP should provide a team as desired by him within two days.
 
 Sand mining, mostly illegal, is rampant at various places along the bank of the Ganga, including Maner, Danapur, Digha, Alamganj and several ghats in   like Kali Ghat, Damriyahi Ghat and Mahavir Ghat. Illegal sand mining has lately started at the sandbar in the Ganga behind Patna University as well.
 
 Hundreds of tractors laden with sand dug from the banks as well as the main course of the Ganga from such places provide daily supply for the construction sector in and around Patna. The sand mining at these places is at times done at night hours and under the supervision of henchmen of ganglords.
 
 Local miners are excavating the sand even from the middle of the river using countrymade boats and buckets. “Hundreds of labourers can be seen carrying sand on countrymade boats dug from the centre of the Ganga along its main course at places like Maner and Digha. Heavy iron buckets are dropped inside the river using a strong rope and a pulley is used to pull it back once it is filled with sand. The sand on the riverbed inside water is considered to be of better quality for construction purposes as it gets cleaned by the flowing water,” said Ashok Ghosh, chairman of state Level Expert Appraisal Committee, the technical committee of State Level Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA).
 
