THANE: Chief minister   on Saturday accused the Shiv Sena-ruled   of being a hotbed of corruption and extortionists. The CM was speaking in Diva while flagging off the party's  . 

 "The corporation here has become a cartel of extortionists who have been exploiting the system for personal gains," said Fadnavis, hinting at the Suraj Parmar suicide abetment case in 2015. The incident had brought to the fore the nexus between politicians, builders and officials in the administration. 
 
 The CM alleged that the cartel had been trying to intimidate the municipal commissioner from executing developmental works. "Municipal commissioner Sanjeev Jaiswal was threatened by this cartel, forcing him to make a late night call, requesting safety for his family. Our government not only backed him but also ensured that the city got its share of development," he said.
 
 Fadnavis launched a scathing attack on the Sena, blaming it for inadequate infrastructure in Thane and lack of development vision over the last 25 years of its rule.
 
 Doling out an array of sops, Fadnavis charted out how the state was promoting Thane for a smart makeover besides bringing it on the Metro map and developing a water transport system.
 
 Meanwhile, in Mumbai, Sena president Uddhav Thackeray called Fadnavis a liar at a rally and said that it was unfortunate for the state to have a CM like him. "It is unfortunate that Maharashtra has got a CM who speaks blatant lies. He talks of the   being non-transparent but his own government at the Centre says the BMC is number one in the country in terms of transparency," he said.
 
 Replying to Fadnavis's claim about bad roads in the city, Uddhav challenged Fadnavis to go out on the streets at midnight and see for himself the pothole-filling work being done by BMC workers. "I have stepped inside a nullah to oversee the work. Does the CM have the courage to dirty his clothes and go inside nullahs? They do not have any love for Mumbai," Uddhav said.
 
 "All the hoardings being put up by them ( ) are about works done by Congress. Have you done anything at all to showcase in the last two and a half years?" he asked.
 
 
