ISLAMABAD: Pakistan’s ousted Prime Minister   returned to Islamabad on Monday to face corruption cases filed against him and his children by the country’s anti-graft body in the accountability court after spending nearly a month with his ailing wife.

 With his return, Sharif put to rest speculation by his political rivals that he had left the country to escape facing corruption cases in courts. Since he left Pakistan on August 30, the Imran Khan-led opposition Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf party was claiming that he would not return to Pakistan.
 
 Pursuing the Supreme Court-mandated cases, Sharif has been summoned by the accountability court on September 26 in three corruption references, filed against him and his children by the National Accountability Bureau (NAB), the country’s anti-corruption watchdog. Sharif’s family had failed to appear before the court on September 19.
 
 The decision to face courts was taken after two days’ meetings in London between Sharif and his confidants, including PM Shahid Khaqan Abbasi, Punjab’s CM  , foreign minister Khawaja Muhammad Asif, finance minister Ishaq Dar and other senior Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) officials.
 
 “Knowing what he faces is not accountability, the man decides to return. It is not about his person anymore. It is the battle of 200 million,” Maryam Nawaz, Sharif’s daughter said in a tweet on her father’s return to Pakistan.
 
 “It takes great courage to be willing to pay the price for challenging what needs to be changed. Not everyone can do that,” Maryam said in another tweet in contrast to her earlier stance when asked whether her father would face corruption references.
 
 Failing to appear before the court last week, Maryum had tweeted, “He should not. Must not. Should not be a part of political & personal victimisation in the garb of accountability. It’s a FARCE (sic).”
 
 Before leaving for Pakistan, Sharif told reporters in London that he came to inquire the health of his wife and again questioned the court’s decision of his disqualification from office.
 
 “We did not commit any corruption. If this was about   Papers, then why was I disqualified for holding an iqama (foreign working permit)?” he asked. 
 
 
