NEW DELHI: The north campus of  , the latest battleground of the  , saw yet another march by the   (ABVP) on Thursday afternoon. The ‘Save DU’ march was in response to the recent protest march by left-backed organisations and students of DU.   said the march was to show that “students of DU have nationalistic sentiments and they will never allow any anti-national sentiments in the campus.” The march was attended by about 1,500 people.

 The march began around 1 pm from the arts faculty and took a long route -- Vishwavidyalaya metro station and colleges like Khalsa, SRCC and Ramjas – culminating at the statue of Swami Vivekananda at the arts faculty in over an hour. The rest of the event was over by 4pm.
 
 The crowd, shouting slogans, was quite enthusiastic. Tinshu Kumar, a first year B.com (H) student of Ramjas College, said that calling Umar Khalid -- an “anti-nationalist” -- to the college was wrong. “When the invitation was cancelled, why did the students protest and raise anti-national slogans,” he asked. “Violence is not allowed but I don’t think it was the ABVP that was involved. Some students of Ramjas were unhappy with the invitation to Khalid and got angry,” he claimed, giving a version of the events which contradicts other accounts.
 
 Addressing the crowd assembled at the Vivekananda statue, the members of ABVP told the students about the virtues of nationalism. Saket Bahuguna, national convener of the ABVP, praised the participants, saying they have “received a tremendous response from the students of DU”.
 
 Many speakers alleged there was a “conspiracy to poison the environment at DU, like they did at JNU”.
 
 Saurabh Sharma, former JNUSU joint-secretary, said that “there is a conspiracy to divide the nation on the lines of religion and caste, but we will not allow that and the ABVP will keep on fighting for the country.”
 
 Ramjas union president Yogit Rathi, who was present at the college when violence broke out on February 21, said that “there is freedom in India but that doesn’t allow people to say things against the nation”. This was echoed by Bahuguna, who insisted that there is complete freedom of speech in India, and that “you can criticize the government and any party, but if you speak against the nation, then we will protest against you.” He said “discussions and debates are always welcome but if they talk about the breaking up of the country or separation of any state from India, then we will oppose them.”
 
 There were a large number of participants who were not from Delhi University, including students from Aligarh, Haryana and Agra. Some residents of the city, mobilized by the BJP campaign on social media, had also joined the march. The ABVP claimed they had called only students from the university and the others who joined them “came of their own accord.”
 
 Soumya Arora, a member of the BJP, said that he turned up “to support the ABVP in its fight against anti-national people and those who are destroying our country.” DUSU president Amit Tanwar, when asked about the presence of outsiders, said: “Whoever joined the protest did out of their own sense of patriotism. We did not call anybody from outside.”
 
 The ABVP described the protest as a massive success and an “indication that the campus was standing with them and that AISA was lying when they said that they have support in the campus.” They claimed they would continue the struggle and will see to it that incidents like the one at Ramjas didn’t take place again.
 
 The north campus has seen a spate of protests following the violence that erupted at Ramjas College on February 21.
 
 Delhi Police was taking no chances and had deployed about 1,500 men along the route of the march. All the intersections along the route were barricaded and no one was allowed to join the march midway. Cops marched along with the students. A police team was also kept on standby to ensure that no incidents of stonepelting from the buildings around the route happened which could have resulted in violence.
 
 Police officers said there was a minor disruption during the march when a group of students from a Jat students union tried to take out their own march in support of the agitation at Jantar Mantar. However, they were prevented from doing so.
 
 
