RANCHI: Team India captain   refused to blame the flat pitch at the   for his team's failure to force the issue on the final day of the third Test against Australia that ended in a draw.

 He instead, pointed to the lack of hardness in the ball, as it became older, to explain Indian spinners' lack of penetration on a fifth day surface.
 
 "The pitch didn't disappoint us. It did break on expected lines on the last three days but I feel the lack of hardness in the ball was a very big factor. Fourth evening, when the ball was new and hard, it was turning a lot," Kohli said after the game.
 
 "Even this (Monday) morning it was doing a bit, but in the second session as it lost its hardness and started coming slowly off the pitch, the bowlers' job became more difficult," he added.
 
 "We tried again with the second new ball and got a couple of wickets. The middle session, when the ball had lost its hardness, it became a big problem," he explained.
 
 Asked why he didn't use Ashwin at the start of play on Monday, Kohli was guarded in his reply, saying it was part of a bigger game plan the team has developed for the series.
 
 Pressed further, Kohli assured that there was no need to read too much into it. "We wanted to give Jadeja a longer go because he was hitting the rough consistently. Be it right-handers or left-handers, he was always attacking the batsmen.
 
 "He also picked up a wicket every two-three overs. It was very difficult to change him at that stage. Also, it is important to have the right bowlers operating from the right end. That's why sometimes one bowler ends up bowling more in a Test match. A lot of times, Ashwin himself has bowled more than others. It is not such a big factor for us."
 
 Kohli praised his bowlers for their all-round effort but singled out Jadeja for being so effective even on a placid surface. "I think in general the bowlers found it quite difficult to make things happen on this pitch. They bowled well but Jadeja, in my opinion, stood out. If you look at his economy rate, on this pitch it was high-class bowling and showed why he is the joint No. 1 bowler alongside Ashwin."
 
 Kohli also gave credit to the Australians for the manner in which they batted, but refused to agree with   that the Australians now have the momentum with them.
 
 "I don't want to take any credit away from their effort. They batted very well. Four down by lunch, they didn't lose a wicket in the second session. So credit to them, but I think we had the upper hand in the match," he opined.
 
 "We were 320-odd for 6 in the first innings. From there to make 600 was a very difficult task. We put ourselves in a position to win, so we feel it was a very good effort on our part. Everyone has his point of view but the fact we are happy with where we brought the game to after just one innings. We didn't need to bat in the second innings but they had to play for a draw." 
 
