NOIDA: Police took two residents of a   into custody on Tuesday for   at a mosque there a day earlier and the district administration held meetings with members of two communities to work out a peaceful solution to a row that broke out over a   being used to offer prayers.

 Around 9am on Monday, a group of 40-50 local youths entered the premises of Masjid-E-Noor in   in Sector 168, near Shiv Nadar School and just 2km from the Noida expressway. The brother of the local imam was also beaten up.
 
 Police said last Friday a number of people had gathered for prayers, and that parked vehicles had choked the adjacent road. 
 
 A group of local residents took note of that and called a meeting of members of both communities on Monday. But members of the minority community stayed away, fearing an attack on them.
 
 Zainuddin-al-Hussaini, imam of the mosque who joined last year, said he and his younger brother Saba Hasan (19) were sitting in a resting room built as an annexure to the mosque when a mob landed there. 
 
 “They barged into the room and asked us why we use a loudspeaker for prayers. They held my brother by the collar and slapped him a few times,” Hussaini said.
 
 When he called neighbours for help, the mob started retreating but threw stones at the resting room that shattered some window panes. There was no damage to the mosque. The mob had dispersed by the time a police team reached.
 
 Police later registered a non-cognisable report for voluntarily causing hurt and intentional insult to provoke breach of peace under sections 323 and 504 of the IPC. On Tuesday evening, Om Dutt and Surendra, both local residents, were arrested.
 
 Noida city magistrate   and circle officer Abhinandan held a meeting with members of the community members.
 
 Surendra Chauhan, who attended the meeting, said they objected to the use of a loudspeaker for prayers. “Also on Fridays, the mosque gets crowded and it creates a traffic jam as people park their vehicles on the road,” he said. The minority community has sought deployment of police to ensure law and order in the area. 
 
 “We have warned of legal action if anyone threatens peace and tranquility in the village,” circle officer Abhinandan said. The village is home to around 2,000 families.
 
 The imam said since the mosque is located near corporate firms, people working in MNCs along the expressway, and labourers at construction sites join Friday prayers, which leads to an unusual increase in the number of attendees from 8-10 on a regular day to 1,000-1,500 on a Friday.
 
 Kallu Khan, a member of the masjid committee who attended the meeting could not be contacted as he was admitted in hospital after he complained of chest pain. Other committee members said they will install CCTV cameras on the premises for safety soon. The committee also agreed to lower the volume of the loundspeaker and mount it at a lower height. It also agreed to look into a solution to the parking problem.
 
 Sleuths of the local intelligence unit have been deployed in the area.
 
 
