Mumbai: The Mumbai Autorickshawmen’s Union has made a fresh demand of a Rs3   in   before the government-appointed fare hike committee. If accepted, the minimum fare could rise to Rs21 for 1.5km.

 Taxi union leaders, who also demanded a minimum hike of Rs2, claimed that cabbies deserve a hike of up to Rs8.
 
 Commuter rights activists are opposing any hike, saying there is no significant improvement in quality of service and refusals continue. They demanded that fares should be “competitive” in the wake of aggregators like Ola and Uber offering reasonably low fares.
 
 The committee, headed by Mumbai Transformation Support Unit director B C Khatua, is accepting petitions from unions and will seek feedback from commuters and activists. It will make a fare hike recommendation to the state government and could also devise a formula to calculate hikes, which can be implemented once every year, sources said.
 
 The auto union submitted an 11-page petition this week, citing escalation in operational costs, repairs and maintenance, fuel price hike and cost of living index. “Our fare hike is due for nearly two years, it is high time the government must increase fares from May 1,” said union leader Shashank Rao. The fare hike calculation was done as per the   committee formula devised a few years back, he said, but some activists rubbished the formula.
 
 The taxi petition was submitted by A L Quadros from the Mumbai Taximen’s Union. “While the government should give us a minimum Rs2 hike, our calculations show that the minimum fare could be raised from Rs22 to Rs30, while the fare for every subsequent km should be hiked from Rs14.84 to Rs20,” he told TOI.
 
 Commuter activists say there should be “zero” fare hike or restructuring of fares, which should taper after 10km. “It will benefit those travelling long distances,” said transport expert Ashok Datar. At present, we pay fares on a fixed calculation of Rs12.19 per km for   and Rs14.84 per km for the  . “For a long run, fares should drop gradually. This can be programmed easily in electronic meters,” he said.
 
 There is also a demand to increase the minimum distance from 1.5km to 2km. Varsha Raut of Mumbai Grahak Panchayat said the new panel should take into account competitive fares of Ola and Uber before deciding any new fare hike formula for autos and taxis in the city.
 
 Activists said the government must do away with CoolCab blue taxis, and allow Kaali Peelis to offer AC rides at extra cost. The experts are also recommending electric autos and   as they are environment-friendly, occupy less road space and make no noise.
 
