Nagpur: Threat from the protesters have put a brake on the mining work at Surjagarh site in Etapalli taluka of Gadchiroli once again after it had resumed a day ago after a 44-day gap following a Naxal arson on December 23 last year when rebels had set 80 vehicles on fire  . 

 On Sunday, the mining work of Llyods group seemed to have restored as around 11 vehicles had rolled out of the site with mined ore despite by an impromptu protest by the villagers from Gatta and surrounding villages.
 
 The protesters had started agitating in presence of the workers and Poclain operators. They were, however, shooed away from the site by the security forces deployed at the site. The protest of the villagers left the operators of the Poclain machines unnerved who refused to work on the site on Monday. It has now being learnt that replacements are being searched to operate the machines as a section of the transporters have geared up to send their vehicles despite their previous losses. 
 
  started the mine with 25 workers on the first day. Sources say the management wants to gain confidence first and may not go ahead without police protection. Earlier the company employed as much as 300 workers, but the management now wants to tread safely after the incident. 
 
 At present it is only mining the surface iron ore which is just enough to meet 30% of the requirement in Lloyd’s plant at Ghuggus at neighbouring Chandrapur. 
 
 Sources say, even as 300 workers were employed in the unit, the demand for employment was much more. When the mine restarted on a full-fledged manner in October, more than double the numbers turned up. But those from nearby 14 villages were only accommodated.
 
 Even the old and children turned up for work at the mine. Initially girls used to travel from Etapalli, about 25 kms away, in two-wheelers to work, a source said.
 
 With large-scale employment in the area, many looked at the mine as a source of work. Llyods Group is planning to set up an iron ore processing unit at Aashti, which is 60 kms from Surjagagh. The district collectorate has identified the land which the company is ready to take up. However, it will have to depend on Maharashtra Industries Development Corporation (MIDC) for the acquisition. More than 75% of the area in Gadchiroli is tribal land which cannot be purchased directly by the company, said the source.
 
 State Anti-naxal operation chief   said the site has been enveloped with security in place. “Apart from the site and the location, there is also a plan in place to provide security along the ferrying corridors through which the ores would be ferried,” he said. 
 
 
