BENGALURU: A priest’s plan to usher in the new year (Ugadi) by attracting hundreds of devotees at a temple in   by showing them the   (snake pearl) that glows by itself in the dark backfired after people protested on suspicions that the priest was playing a mischief by using a torchlight. The   had to intervene even as an inquiry is on to verify the truth.

 On Ugadi, Prashanth, a priest from Chowdeshwari Temple within the Gudibande police station limits, allegedly decided to cash in on the myths surrounding Nagamani, and took them for a ride to make the most of it.
 
 According to  , a Vedic scripture, “Pearls from the cobra’s hood (Nagamani) are perfectly round, like fish pearls, and they radiate a natural effulgence … Anyone possessing such a Nagamani attains piety, rare good fortune, and eventually becomes illustrious as a leader of men, complete with a great collection of all  .”
 
 The Nagamani is believed to be a formation of calcium that grows inside the hood of a cobra. Although there is no scientific proof of actual existence of such growths in  , it is believed that these transform into silica. On Ugadi, many people begin their day with a visit to the temple. According to sources, people thronged the temple in large numbers on Wednesday after word spread that the temple was blessed with a Nagamani. To make things look real, the priest also allegedly brought a cobra and left it at the temple.
 
 Many fell for it. People were all praise for Lord Chowdeshwari and many felt that they were blessed to see the “Nagamani”. But a section of devotees visiting the temple doubted the act, saying it was a fake one.
 
 The news reached the tahsildar, and the police and the forest department officials who arrived at the temple, took the priest in to conduct an inquiry. Some locals claimed that it was no Nagamani, and that the priest Prashanth had used a battery and fixed a light to an ordinary stone.
 
 The police, based on the allegations, said Prashanth had arranged lighting to bring in the effect of the pearl glow, and with the cobra’s presence in the temple, assumed that people would consider him to be a powerful man.
 
 
 
 
 
