SHIMLA: In the election year, the Congress government in Himachal Pradesh, it seems, is trying to please all sections of society. As employees will play the deciding role in the assembly elections, the government is trying to woo them with  . On Tuesday, the state cabinet in its meeting decided to regularize the services of   after three years of continuous service as on March 31 to fulfil the announcement of chief minister   made on April 15 at Chamba during Himachal Day function.

 As per budget announcement, a cabinet meeting chaired by the CM has accorded approval for the enhancement of rates of grant-in-aid of chowkidars of gram panchayats from Rs 2,050 to Rs 2,350, benefiting 3,226 chowkidars. Approval was also granted for the enhancement of monthly honorarium to anganwari workers from Rs 450 to Rs 1,450 and anganwari sahayikas from Rs 300 to Rs 600. A decision was also taken to provide one day casual leave to contract appointees after putting one month of service, besides 10 days medical leave and five days special leave in a calendar year. 
 
 A female contract appointee with less than two surviving children would be granted maternity leave for 135 days. It was decided to regularize the services of para- medical staff of Rogi Kalyan Samitis (RKS) after four years, which includes three year service under government contract and one year under RKS, instead of the earlier eight years.
 
 The cabinet also decided to provide 4-9-14 pay scale to be granted to all medical officers (general wing) for services rendered in the department for 2017 as a relaxation. It also decided to appoint medical officers on regular basis from January 1, next year. It was also decided that part-time workers will be upgraded to daily-wagers provided they have completed 8 years of continuous service as on March 31 and September 30 this year.
 
 Approval was given to purchase of 25 buses with capacity of 30 seats, 250 buses of 37 seats and 50 buses of 47 seats. An increase in grant-in-aid from Rs 3,000 to Rs 4,000 per child per annum under HP Mother Teresa Matri Ashaaye Sambal Yojna was also okayed.
 
 Rationalization of posts in animal husbandry department also got the nod. One post of additional director and four posts of veterinary officers were shifted from non-significant area to functional area. Besides, seven posts of veterinary officer were upgraded to senior veterinary officers. One post of assistant director was upgraded to deputy director and one post of assistant director to joint director. It also approved the enhancement of 50 per cent of existing rates of daily allowances to the elected representatives of panchayati raj institutions (PRIs).
 
 
 
 
 To fill 200 posts of Panchayat Sahayak in Panchayati Raj Department.
 
 To fill 174 posts of forest guards on contract basis in Forest Department.
 
 To fill 60 posts of Agriculture Extension Officers by direct recruitment through HP Selection Commission, Hamirpur on contract basis.
 
 To fill 31 backlog posts of clerks on contract basis in Higher Education Department.
 
 To fill 25 posts of Agriculture Development Officers on contract basis through direct recruitment.
 
 To fill 12 posts of Drug Inspector on contract basis through direct recruitment in Health Department.
 
 To fill 12 posts of Junior Office Assistant (IT) in Excise and Taxation department on contract basis. 
 
