AGRA: After  , more than 2,000   have threatened to   while accusing   of persecuting them. On Sunday, they   in a rivulet close to their village, as a symbolic gesture bidding farewell to Hindu religion.
 
  What sparked off the protest was a clash that occurred on Tuesday over construction of a Bhairav Baba temple at the site of an abandoned well. Thakurs from the village had objected to the construction of the temple.
  
  Talking to TOI, Bunty Singh, a Dalit leader and resident of Keshopur Jhopri village said they had decided to convert to Islam due to continued “discrimination and harassment” by upper caste Hindus. He said at the time of the elections, upper castes treated them at par with “Hindus” in order to garner their votes but once the polls are over, they are back to treating Dalits shabbily.
  
  “They don’t consider us as part of the Hindu community and use abusive and derogatory language against us. It is better for Dalits to convert,” Bunty said.
  
  The Dalit leader alleged that ever since the BJP came to power in the state, the upper castes had started flexing their muscles. “Atrocities against Dalits have been on the rise with the active participation of right-wing Hindu organizations. Thakurs not only discriminate against us, but our children are also harassed at school by upper caste children,” Bunty said.
  
  Another Dalit from the village, Jaiveer Singh, alleged that Thakurs had dug up drains from their washrooms towards the spot where Dalits were planning to install an idol of Bhairav Baba in order to stall the construction of the temple. “When we objected, they got together and started beating us,” he said.
  
  Defending the Thakurs, Devendra Chauhan, the village pradhan’s husband, claimed that they had done no wrong. He admitted that the drains had been dug up by some residents but the matter was resolved after the intervention of the local administration. He alleged that some local Dalit leaders were trying to create disharmony among communities for their own vested interests.
  
  Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Rajesh Pandey said an adequate police force has been deputed in the village, the situation was under control and attempts were being made to defuse the tension.
  
  Recently, 50 Dalit families from Moradabad had decided to embrace Islam after allegedly being persecuted under the Yogi Adityanath government. Valmikis at Fatehpur Shamsoi village had announced they would be leaving Hinduism after upper castes prevented them from getting haircuts for decades. On Friday, some 180 Dalit families from three villages of Saharanpur district embraced Buddhism in protest against persecution.
