NEW DELHI: Mounting an attack on  , a combative finance minister   accused the erstwhile UPA government of interfering with the functioning of banks to get them to sanction loans to large corporate houses in what was an apparent reference to banks funding Vijay Mallya-promoted  , which is now defunct. 

  "NPA is a self-goal for you. Not a rupee advantage has been given by any bank since May 26, 2014 (when NDA took charge) to that person by any bank whatsoever. This falsehood has been repeated indefinitely but now the documents have come out and they are all over that this was happening not by the banks but this was happening through the intervention of North Block, and bank officials are having to pay for it now," Jaitley said, while replying to a debate on the Budget on Thursday. 
 
  The remark appeared to allude to arrests of officials of IDBI Bank for sanctioning loans to Kingfisher Airlines in alleged disregard of the loan worthiness of the enterprise. 
 
  The CBI has already widened the arc of its probe into the Kingfisher case to examine the role of finance ministry officials. Jaitley said there was "indiscriminate lending" to select people and industries by banks during the UPA dispensation which resulted in a massive pileup of NPAs. " Aapke dwara kiye gaye karmon ka byaj hum de rahe hain (we are paying the interest on your misdeeds)," he said, referring to opposition benches. 
 
  In an obvious reference to  's allegations that the government had given a benefit of Rs 1,200 crore to Mallya, Jaitley said not "a rupee benefit" was given to the businessman by any bank since NDA came to power. "Most of these are loans given during 2007-08-09 period when the economy was going through a boom," he said. 
 
 Participating in the debate on Wednesday, Congress member Veerappa Moily had attacked NDA over the growing NPAs of banks. During Jaitley's reply, Moily said loan growth had come to a "three-decade low".
 
  Referring to demonetisation, Jaitley said it had not impacted the economy as apprehended by experts and added that even during the stress period (November-December), the size of the formal economy was increasing. He said demonetisation, coupled with GST, would make India a single market instead of 30 different markets in states, besides facilitating free flow of goods and services throughout the country. Defending the government's decision to demonetise Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes, he said "cash is the biggest facilitator of crime" even while agreeing that there would be crime even if there was less cash. 
 
  Replying to questions why the RBI had not yet come out with the amount of scrapped notes deposited with banks, the FM said it would take time to compute and the central bank would not hurriedly give the numbers as it concerned its reputation. 
 
 
