PUNE: Control over municipal corporations and councils in the state will give political parties power not only over the budgets but also to decide about a host of matters ranging from land reservation to civic amenities and funds. 

 But it is not just about budgets and funds. The control of civic bodies gives immense powers in the hands of political parties and leaders who have drawn their financial strength from civic bodies. 
 
 A huge budget of Rs 37,052 crore makes   (BMC), perhaps the richest civic body in Asia, the lifeline of Shiv Sena’s politics in Maharashtra.
 
 Pune and   with their respective budgets of Rs 5,748 crore and Rs 3,982 crore are among the richest municipal corporations besides the BMC. The NCP is in power in both the municipal corporations and will look at staying in power.
 
 In the rapidly urbanizing regions of Nashik and Solapur, civic bodies may also soon cross the annual budgetary figure of Rs 2,000 crore.
 
 Traditionally, octroi, property tax and development charges have been the main sources of revenue for civic bodies. However, local body tax replacing octroi has hit civic bodies hard in the state. 
 
 Almost all civic bodies are facing a financial crunch and the Union government is now encouraging land monetization, public-private partnerships, build-operate-transfer models. 
 
 Enormous budget figures and the flow of funds from central government schemes make civic bodies a vital power centre in urban politics and the fight for the 10 municipal corporations is turning fierce to an extent that the ruling combine of BJP and   is ready put the state government at a stake for power in the civic bodies.
 
 “Politicians are interested in civic bodies because these are centres of financial and decision-making power in cities. Civic bodies deal with hundreds of tenders for capital expenditure and maintenance works. Corporators have their share of money in every civic job. Hence, every corporator takes care of his own kitty and also contributes to the party. Also, a majority of contractors and sub-contractors are linked to politicians. Right from water tankers to road repairs, corporators claim their share,” a senior civic official said.
 
 For big leaders who want to control the civic body, tenders and petty works are not the attractions. “Land is a major resource in urban areas. The civic bodies decide about reservations and de-reservation of land and crores of rupees are involved in these deals. Also, building permissions and approval of projects is a major source of income in civic bodies as every approval has to go through the civic body. It is not surprising that many small and big time developers have developed political ambitions and have become corporators and even members of  ,” a land department official said. 
 
 A senior sitting corporator explained the links. Corporators have allegiance to a particular leader for whom they work. Once elected, they have to earn for themselves and for their leader. A majority of the parties draw funds from contractors and developers who bring their projects for sanction, he said. 
 
 But corruption in the civic corridors is not restricted to politicians. Civic officials are part of the entire ring and have to prove their allegiance to ruling politicians. 
 
 Industry sources in Mumbai said the bribe demands by civic officials to sanction building projects are mind-boggling. The rates cited were Rs 1,200 per sq ft in the island city, Rs 800 per sq ft between Bandra and Andheri, and up to Rs 600 per sq ft in the eastern suburbs. It could cost a builder Rs 5-30 crore, depending on the size of the project. 
 
 Even in Pune, top civic bosses who have worked in PMC, showed keen interest in city’s development plan when it came to cancelling or shifting amenities or reservations on open the land for construction. 
 
 Political analyst   said power agents dominate civic politics and they have nothing to do with common people or development. “They have a very clear calculation. Power in civic body is equal to filling up their coffers,” he added. 
 
 
