A dispute among residents of the  , over a pragmatic solution of  , could not have come at a more appropriate time. In the backdrop of the controversy of the garbage overload at Phursungi, which even called for chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’s intervention, two factions of this gated community — the   and members of the managing committee — are at   to find a solution to clean up their own backyard. While the former wants the society to treat the garbage at a centrally allocated location, the latter has been dragging its feet on the matter. In the face of the committee’s dilly-dallying, the residents sought an emergency general meeting, following which the 11-member managing committee has been disbanded. An administrator has now been appointed for the society comprising 140 bungalows. The dispute is now raging at the department of cooperation and pending before its minister, Subhash Deshmukh.

 At the heart of controversy lies Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) decision to not lift garbage from housing societies. In July 2016 residents of the society, which is home to prominent developers, businessmen and professionals, were told that door-to-door collection will cease, and that they will have to make their own arrangements for disposal of wet garbage. This translates to individual bungalow owners creating their own composting pits or plants within their property.
 
 With no solution in sight, most residents complied, only to be pulled up by PMC for a shoddy job. Several bungalow owners who had started composting in their backyards got notices for not doing it right and instead creating a menace — the poor handling of wet garbage at an individual level also led to people in the neighbourhood coming down with chikungunya and dengue.
 
 Following this, a group of residents shot a letter to the managing committee pointing to a centrally located plot which was allocated for dumping of garbage since the inception of housing society, and that a central plant aided with modern machinery would help them emerge from the mess. “Pushing this exercise onto the members and not taking concrete steps is unacceptable and must be resolved immediately… . We are unable to understand as to why the society has not proceeded to purchase a modern garbage disposal unit like all neighbouring societies such as Sindh and Shirin Gardens,” stated a letter dated July 30, 2016, signed by 30-odd residents addressed to the managing committee. The residents sought an emergency meeting to thrash out the problem.
 
 After waiting for over two months when the committee evidently dragged its feet on the issue, the residents led by Sheetal Patil, Jayant Pawar and Manisha Gokhale- Shah filed a complaint before deputy registrar of housing societies in October 2016. A month later, in November, the deputy registrar disbanded the entire managing committee and also barred them from holding office for the next five years. An administrator too was appointed to manage the affairs of the society. Moreover, the deputy registrar ordered that new committee should be elected in the next six months.
 
 The managing committee members were not to take this easy and challenged this with the joint registrar, who confirmed the order of suspension of all the 11 members in March 2017. Now the committee members have approached the Minister of Co-operation, seeking a revision of the orders.
 
 The grounds cited by the managing committee for reinstating them are that deputy and joint registrar do not have powers to pass such orders. Moreover, they have in their application before the minister claimed that the meeting demanded by residents could not be held in a rush. They have stated that once they got the request to call for a special meeting to deal with the garbage issue on hand, the managing committee wanted to call for tenders to purchase the machines and also seek advice from technical experts. Their justification is they did not scuttle the meeting but could not call for it immediately because of these reasons.
 
 The managing committee also approached Bombay High Court seeking a stay on re-elections till the case is decided by co-operation minister. On March 23, Justice RM Savant granted them a stay and also asked the minister to decide the matter by May 10. The minister has heard both the sides and is expected to pass an order soon.
 
 When Mirror contacted the warring parties, they refused to comment. Manisha Gokhale-Shah, the resident who along with two others had taken on the managing committee, as well as Vrinda Mantri, the chairperson in the ousted managing committee, declined to comment on the grounds that the matter was sub judice.
 
