VISAKHAPATNAM: Even as businesses such as jewellery and accessories continue to reel under the demonetisation effect, the drive has hardly had any impact on the apparel segment in the three north-coastal districts of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam.

 According to the sources, there are nearly 5,000 small, medium and branded shops in the three districts selling clothes, jewellery and mobile phones. Of this, 70 per cent of the rush has been to the garment shops since beginning of this week for   shopping. Meanwhile, customers to jewellery and mobile shops have reduced as compared with the previous year. 
 
 Sankranti celebrations begin from January 13 with Bhogi and conclude with   on January 15, while Sankranti is celebrated on January 14 in the two Telugu-speaking states.
 
 Palakonda Road, Seven Road Junction, Surya Mahal Road in Srikakulam town, Dabagardens, Poorna Market,  , Jagadamba Centre, Maddilapalem, Gopalapatnam in Vizag and Prince of Wales Market, Ghantasthambham in Vizianagaram town generally witness huge rush during Sankranti.
 
 According to sources, all merchants are doing business of nearly Rs 300 crore daily during this period this year, which is short of thier expectation of Rs 400 crore. Branded garment shops alone are doing nearly Rs 1 crore per day in the city, while the medium scale merchants are doing nearly Rs 40 lakh to Rs 50 lakh.
 
 K  , joint partner of Men.Com (Men Dot Com) at Dwarakanagar, said the demonetisation impact on the garment business had faded and customers were making payments in cash and cards in a 50:50 ratio. 
 
 “The ratio between digital transaction and currency transaction was 40:60 before demonetisation, 85:15 during demonetisation drive and 50:50 now. This indicates that digital transactions have improved,” Bhimeswara Rao told TOI.
 
 J Raghunath, general manager (marketing) of Vaibhav Jewellers at Dwarakanagar, said demonetisation was still haunting the jewellery business. Jewellers did business of nearly Rs 20 crore a day, which has now come down to Rs 15 crore to Rs 16 crore, he said.
 
 “However, to overcome the demonetisation effect, we are coming up with various offers and schemes to attract customers. We are also accepting both the digital currency and cash for purchase of jewellery,” Raghunath said.
 
 P Mohan Prasad, managing director of Cellpoint India Pvt Ltd said, “The smart phone business dropped to 20% this year when compared with last year in this festival season. This is a result of the demonetisation effect. The volume of smartphones also came down despite a vast propaganda of importance of smartphones for digital transactions.”
 
 Andhra Bank deputy general manager B   said cash flow at banks has improved. “Now, our focus is to see that every customer goes for the digital transaction and improve our own bank business. The number of digital transactions would increase if the flow of currency is tightened,” Lakshmi added.
 
 
