MUMBAI: In the last two days,   Robin Jaisinghani and his family of four are witnesses to the massive hacking of trees, which till last week stood tall, providing shade to locals and pedestrians. 

 The hacking of trees in the city for construction of   has begun from the   garden up to the spot outside Vivanta by Taj-President.   is a 33.5km underground line running between Colaba-Bandra-Seepz (Andheri), with 27 stations.
 
 “It’s extremely upsetting to see the massive cutting of trees take place when you look outside your window. Having lived in this area since 1977, I played in the open space where the trees are now being chopped to make way for Metro III. What’s worse is that after the cutting of trees we will have to bear the brunt of construction activity throughout the day for a decade. My daughter’s childhood will be over by then, and all that they will grow up seeing is trees being hacked and noise. How are they going to even study or sleep?” said Jaisinghani, who along with other residents had filed a writ petition in the high court. Their buildings are barely 40 metres from the proposed underground Metro terminus. 
 
 Pervin Jehangir, another petitioner and a resident of Jupiter Apartments in Cuffe Parade, said the area around the trees which are being hacked has been barricaded so that no one walking past will be able to see what is happening. “One needs to go up to a height to notice the large number of trees being chopped. Climate change is here despite which we are going ahead and reducing Mumbai’s green cover to such a large extent,” said Jehangir. 
 
 Manjeet Kriplani, another resident, said the area where the trees are being chopped has lush green trees where kids would play. “It has been barely two days since the tree-cutting has begun and such a large amount of green cover has been lost. This will be completely irreversible. The area already struggles with traffic congestion, and with the Metro work beginning, we are anticipating it will only worsen,” said Kriplani. 
 
 Activist Zoru Bathena, who had filed an RTI, was informed that 5,012 will be affected (cut or transplanted) due to Metro III work in the city. “The authorities said the trees will be replanted at another location, but we have seen how it has been a big sham. Most trees that are replanted do not sustain, and nobody follows up on what happened to them,” said Bathena. 
 
 
