KOCHI: A   conducted by the   of   in Kothamangalam found that there was a close link between the   and their   The guilt complex came down as monthly income grew. The mothers included in the study were teachers, staff nurses and clerks.

 The study, `Child Care Related Guilt Complex Perceived among Employed Mothers' ­ published in the International Journal of Advances in Nursing Management ­ chronicled 60 mothers, working in both private and public sectors. The age of their kids ranged from one to three.
 
 The study claimed that in cases where the salary was over Rs 20,000, the guilt complex among working mothers dipped.
 
 It said that the guilt complex over hiring a nanny to take care of the kids was high among working mothers whose monthly income ranged between Rs 11,000 and Rs 15,000 (30 in case of the survey), compared to the ones in the high-income gro up. Those in the high-income group drew over Rs 20,000 (15 mothers) as salary.The method used for the study was mean deviation calculator.
 
 “High salary is a positive factor for everyone. A working mother nurses some sort of hurt when her kids are under the care of someone else in the family during her working hours. But the thought that she can contribute to the welfare of the family and can share the responsibility with a higher income (normally) brings down her guilt complex,“ said head of the Preeti Mathew, who was part of the study led by Alby C Baby.
 
 It was found that most mothers (15 in case of the survey) resumed their jobs within three months of the birth of their child. The study said that in case of working mothers (11) with more than three children, the guilt complex was less compared to the mothers who had one or two kids.
 
 When the elder children grow up, they take care of the younger ones properly and working mothers need not worry about them at all.That's why their guilt complex was low compared to the mothers who have one or two children, Mathew said.
 
 The long working hours also increased their guilt complex. The guilt complex of 23 mothers, who work over eight hours a day, was high compared to others included in the study.
 
 If one were to look at the ir educational qualifications, the guilt complex of working mothers (13) whose education qualification was diploma was higher compared to graduates or postgraduates. Meanwhile, working mothers in urban areas (19) had more guilt complex than their counterparts in semiurban and rural areas.
 
 Preeti said the diploma holders would have more work load, but their salary would be lesser than that of graduates and postgraduates. “Most families in urban area are nuclear and the supportive system like the care of grandparents would be less for children. Though the service of caretakers would be there, it won't be same like grandparents,“ she said.
 
 
