PANAJI: Construction of the new eight-lane   poses several challenges, including   on site and high wind-speeds and highly corrosive weather that the bridge must endure once constructed. To overcome these conditions, different advanced technologies are to be employed in construction of the bridge.

 This bridge will be located in one of the most corrosive climates in India, being very close to the sea. Concrete penetrating corrosion inhibiting admixture will be used in the concrete to fight corrosion, sources said. These admixtures protect the steel from corrosion and ensures long-term durability. Several equipments will be used to expedite the work. The 13km-long new   along with its approach roads is expected to be ready by mid-2019.
 
 Orders have already been placed by the contractors   for an advanced robotic welding system equipment, which is being imported from different countries, to put together the cable-stayed bridge. Concreting will be carried out by pumping through pipe from the embankment. Centre is spending around Rs 1,403.1 crore in all for the construction of the bridge.
 
 Tower cranes will be established on each side for the construction of two 100m-high concrete pylons.
 
 Fabricated piling gantries will be erected and piling will be carried out with these. These are temporary constructions next to the site where the pillars of the bridge are being constructed and allow work to be carried out irrespective of the tide and water conditions. Gantry piling is the latest international practice in building bridges, considered economical and time-efficient technique than any other bridge engineering technology.
 
 In the cable-stayed section of the bridge, to avoid a dull aesthetic by providing all the exposed black tubes, it has been proposed to have brightly-coloured ducts. Large numbers of recent cable-stayed bridges have been built with such coloured ducts which provides an impressive contrast against the backdrop of the sky.
 
 The location of the two pylons — one on the Panaji and the Margao side each - was shifted during the design stage close to the shoreline where depth of water is shallow (maximum depth of water varying from 6m to 8m). During the detailed project preparation, it was felt that marginal shifting of the pylon foundation towards Panaji side will solve the problem of tourist access to this pylon on top of which a revolving restaurant/observatory will be constructed.
 
 Before planning the bridge, a detailed site investigation was carried out which included topographic survey using computerized total station, satellite communication equipment and river soundings; subsoil investigation in the river bed, and on land; and traffic survey for economic and financial viability analysis.
 
