A brick and mortar house now stands tall in place of the decrepit mud hut with a thatched roof at local farmer Jaiveer’s house in Hinmapur village of Kannauj. The roof that once reeked of moisture and rain, is replaced now with an open cemented terrace that housed the marriage party of his daughter a few months ago. It was a distant dream for the family not very long which came true, thanks to Agra-Lucknow Expressway. 

 When the government acquired around 12 bighas of Jaiveer’s land what he and his family got in return was close to Rs 3 crore, and the tag of becoming a   farmer in the small village. And, with money, came not just the house and the marriage, but also a tractor, two motorbikes, a car, a potato trading unit in Kanpur and land bought in another part of the district, all adding to the family’s assets. It’s, however, not just Jaiveer, but other farmers like Raghuvir and Pyaare Lal who have all earned the distinction of becoming millionaires because of the compensation that the expressway has brought 
 
 “Pehle bas jaise taise khane peene ka kharcha nikal aata tha, ab hum crorepati hain. (Earlier, we would barely make ends meet, and now I am a crorepati),” said Jaiveer. “We are still the same people though,” he quickly added. 
 
 The family spent around Rs 5 lakh on the daughter’s marriage, sending her off with all possible gifts that the villagers would have only dreamt of. “The fridge and washing machine, double bed and other furniture that we gave her on the wedding, wouldn’t have been possible earlier,” said Asha Devi, his sister-in-law. 
 
  and his brother   who live in Rata Purwa under   also joined the crorepati club overnight with over Rs 1 crore they received for their 7-8 bighas of land, that fell right on the highway curve. The family bought more land, a plot for a house and spent quite a sum of money on the treatment of one of their sons who met with an accident. “One of my sons wanted to get into the police but was falling short since I could not put him in a good coaching and training centre due to lack of money. With the sum we got, he has now finally entered the police services and is posted in Fatehpur,” said Pyaare Lal with pride. 
 
 Another farmer, Raghuvir, from Rata Purwa had for the past two years been thinking of marrying off his daughter but borrowing a sum of Rs 4 lakh would have been too high a loan to take care of. Suddenly, the expressway came in and Raghuvir breathed a sigh of relief when his family was compensated for 16 bighas of land for a sum of over Rs 1 crore as the rate here was less as compared to Jaiveer’s village. 
 
 “Itni achhi shaadi na kar pate. I married her with the choicest of gifts that I had wanted to give my daughter. The wedding party was a big one with over 150 people from the grooms’ side alone and the entire village still remembers it,” he said. Not just the marriage, Raghuvir spent the money in buying more land, keeping his farming intact and also got a new house made. 
 
 
