The most impressionable early years of my life were spent in a sylvan hill town called Wokha in the foothills of Nagaland. Those were the late nineties when we did not have internet and cell phones for our amusement. After we pestered him enough, our father agreed to subscribe to the local cable operator and we were allowed our own quota of the idiot box once we completed our homework and revised our lessons for the day. Although my dad was doubtful of the effects of television on our nascent minds, he totally adhered to the view that reading could enlighten his children. So, on the first week of every month, the postman would come armed with a stock of magazines and newsletters which we would devour for the rest of the month until the next stock arrived. It was in one of the lesser known magazines that dad subscribed for us where I discovered a column called, “From the Desk of Ruskin Bond.” Strangely, at that point in time, it was a column I religiously skipped. Since it was by a man named Bond, I had made up the conjecture that the column could only be about detectives and spies, which was one genre which could never interest me, even to this day! One month it so happened that due to an economic blockade, there was an indefinite delay on the delivery of the magazines. What followed were empty days without anything to read. The summer breaks had also set in. Since dad would be at home all day, we could not watch television as much as we pleased. So on a sleepily warm Sunday, I decided to skim through old magazines, hoping to find something to read to occupy myself for the rest of the day. And on that sunny summer morning I discovered the magic that is   and since then there has been no looking back.

  The years that followed introduced me to more of Rusty – both through school syllabi and books I bought in fairs, book shops, and buses loaded with books that visited our school every once or twice in a year. There was the story of a young girl called Madhu which became the first piece of literature I cried to. Then there were amusing stories on guilty thieves, strange queens, and a dying kite-maker. His stories spewed compassion, just what I thought I was all about. They didn’t just acquaint me with names of flowers and trees, geography and history, but also taught me a great deal about human nature, without a tinge of judgement. It taught me at an early age that it does not matter much if dreams don’t materialise as long as we are capable enough to dream again. It reassured me that it was okay to not have too many friends because it develops in us the fortitude to stand alone and be independent. Uncle Bond also taught me to have a more tolerant view of life and people and so I could understand people better than most children of my age. I started frequenting the library and reading became a big hobby, so much so that I was willing to utilise my television time for the sake of reading. The last bench became a favourite place and my grades dropped but who cared as long as I was reading something interesting and simply not cramming on algebra and compound interest. And thus, Ruskin Bond and his writings became my safest place to hide. Whenever the teacher scolded me for a misdemeanour, I went home and pulled one of his books to get my mind off it. Even now whenever there’s a rough day at work, it is his words I go back to. I lost my dad three months back and there has been no greater respite than his books which is helping me grieve and heal myself. The impact of this man on my life is matchless and I guess if there ever can be another equivalent.
 
  I am particularly glad that I could meet him in person on his 83rd birthday. After years of failed attempts and immaterialized trips to Mussoorie and Landour, just to meet him, this certainly is a dream come true. I vividly recall how just a year back I sat at his doorsteps with a gift in my hand, too scared to climb the stairs and ring the bell and too hopeful to simply walk away without meeting him. This time destiny was on my side and I arrived for his birthday celebration at least 3 hours prior to the suggested time. And yes, it worked in my favour. As I handed him a handwritten note and a gift, I could see adventure in his eyes. He looked as elated as he must have been while a child and as I held his hand to wish him a happy birthday, I could feel all the tender emotions that lace his stories. I cannot exactly recall what I was experiencing as I looked at him signing books with his wizened hands but I am sure the memory of that moment will continue to inspire me all my life.
 
  In one of his letters to his father, Ruskin Bond once wrote, “In my dreams of you I meet you on a busy street, after many lost years, and you receive me with the same old warmth, but where were you all these missing years? A traveller in another dimension, perhaps, returning occasionally just to see if I am all right.”
 
 Maybe we are simply travellers in different dimensions, and one day my path will cross with him again and I will get my own moments with him to tell him how much I loved him all my life and what great a source of strength his words have been through this lifetime. 
  
 
 
 
 
