AURANGABAD: The ministry of environment, forest and climate change has given clearance to   (BIA) coming up over 3179.1 hectares near Aurangabad, paving way for the Delhi Mumbai Industrial Corridor ( ) work to pick pace.

 Proposed to have financial outlay of over around Rs 6,000 crore, the BIA is projected to generate around 1,00,481 industrial jobs. Gajanan Patil, general manager of DMIC, told TOI on Sunday that the green clearance would “clear the decks for different infrastructural development works worth Rs 1,390 crore.”
 
 “The BIA will be developed in three phases and the works proposed under the initial phase would receive head start due to the mandatory clearance from the MoEF,” he said, adding that the target to complete the phase 1 is May 2019.
 
 The Centre had conducted a public hearing in February last year at Bidkin to gather suggestions and objections, if any, regarding the proposed BIA. Then in July, DMIC authorities moved a proposal for environmental clearance under the provisions of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986. The proposal was considered by the   (EAC) of the Centre during its meetings two recent meetings before giving the necessary go-ahead. 
 
 Patil said the Shendra industrial area has already received green clearance from the Centre in January last year and similar go-ahead for Bidkin industrial area would ensure speedy execution of DMIC project. DMIC authorities said the land acquisition for all 3179.1 hectares has been completed. 
 
 Different works such as construction of roads, bridges, underground cable lines, sewerage lines, water recycling network and other utility framework would be constructed during phase I of the Bidkin industrial area. 
 
 “We hope tender process for all listed works gets over by May and followed by actual completion of work over a period of next two-years,” Patil said.
 
 Nikhil Bhalerao, IT entrepreneur, said there should no more hurdles in the progress of works at BIA. “The hurdle of land acquisition has been already crossed. Now, the Centre has given its go-ahead for the project. The BIA, hailed as second phase of DMIC after Shendra, will alter the face of Marathwada,” he said. 
 
 While granting clearance to the project, the MoEF has laid down a set of conditions for DMIC authorities during different stages of the project. A few of the major conditions are that there shall be a continuous green belt along the plant premises, except at the designated entry and exit points. Solid wastes shall be collected, treated disposed in accordance with the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 and no municipal waste should be disposed of outside the project premises. 
 
 Any appeal against this clearance will be heard before the   stipulated period, authorities said.
 
