THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Every discussion that surrounds the unsafe blood transfusion incident which resulted in HIV infection at the Regional   Centre (RCC) is centred on the term `window period'.

 Regional Cancer Centre authorities, in a statement issued in response to the news said that a person who has freshly contracted with HIV may take four to 12 weeks for the virus to be detected. This time period is called window period.Even though the RCC do not deny or accept the allegation that the child was infected with the virus during the treatment here, they believe that chances are high that blood from someone, in the window period of HIV infection, might have been used for transfusion.
 
 The police team probing the case too have received a similar opinion from medical experts.Hence, they have already commenced measures to track down all the donors, whose blood components were used for treatment of the girl, and subject them for tests for HIV .
 
 The hospital statement suggested that the child had done blood tests at other hospitals and private labs and the infection could have been caused from a facility other than RCC.
 
 According to Dr  , a government doctor and executive member of Blood Donors  , hospitals here employ first generation enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (Elisa), which is cheap.But, its drawback is that it would detect the antibodies that are at least 84 days old. Using third generation   test can help bring down this win dow period 30-34 days.
 
 There are also other advaneced tests like P24 Assay, which can bring down the window peri od again to 15-20 days and Nucleic acid Amplification Test (NAT), which can detect the infection within seven to 15 days. “But, since these tests are comparatively costly, the hospitals here go for first generation Elisa tests,“ he said.
 
 “As per records of   as many as 1,559 persons contracted HIV through blood donation in 2015-16. There has not been even a single such case reported in UK since 2005 and in US since 2008 because they upgraded to NAT. It is high time we too adopted such advanced tests,'' Dr Manoj Vellanad said.
 
