BHUBANESWAR:  , whose images carrying the body of his wife owing to the alleged unavailability of ambulance in the state's backward   drew worldwide attention in August last year, may play a key role in the ensuing  . 

 The opposition Congress is toying with the idea of engaging him to campaigning against the ruling BJD over the deteriorating healthcare system.
 
 Sources in the Congress said some party leaders had recently met Dana at his Melghara village under Rampur block in Kalahandi and urged him to support the party in Panchayat elections. Talks of the party offering Majhi a zila parishad ticket were also doing the rounds. He reportedly turned down the offer. 
 
  "We will be happy if Dana Majhi voluntarily agrees to join us in campaigning against BJD. But we will neither lure him nor force him to support us. We hope he will support Congress, which realized his plight and stood by him. We also took a series of rallies in support of him," district Congress president (Kalahandi)   told TOI. Majhi could not be contacted for comment. 
 
 Congress state president   parried when asked about Dana. "I will talk about whether or not the party considers him as a campaigner later," Harichandan said, adding, "We have finalized the list of the party's star campaigners and will submit their names near the state election commission within a day or two." 
 
 Harichandan said Dana is a glaring example of the state's failing healthcare system. "It was not only Dana, we witnessed the rerun of such embarrassing instances from different places in the state. It clearly exposed the sorry state of healthcare system in the state," he added.
 
 The opposition party said it might engage duped chit fund investors to rattle the BJD government in the forthcoming rural polls. The ruling party has been in trouble in the mega chit fund scam as the CBI already arrested two of its lawmakers and summoned some others. Congress alleged the government has failed to disburse a penny from the Rs 300 crore corpus fund, announced over two years ago for the duped investors. (EOM) 
 
