VADODARA: Cracking the whip regarding Saturday’s incident of officials consuming liquor in a ward office,   ( ) suspended seven officials with immediate effect on Monday. The civic body wrote to the city police asking them to take action regarding the incident and an offence will be registered at Panigate police station.

 The controversy regarding the ‘liquor party’ was raked up after a video showing the officials consuming liquor in the administrative ward three was circulated widely on social media. It is said that the video was made late on Saturday evening or night after a ‘Seva Setu’ event at the ward office.
 
 The VMC got a preliminary inquiry conducted in the matter by in-charge deputy municipal commissioner for south zone P M Patel. A copy of the inquiry report along with compact discs of the video footage and stills from it was handed over to the police along with a letter by VMC commissioner Dr Vinod Rao seeking police action.
 
 “I held a meeting with the municipal commissioner to discuss the issue. I have directed Panigate police to file FIR against the VMC employees who were caught drinking liquor in the government premises. We want to send a strong message that law is equal for all,” said city police commissioner Manoj Sashidhar. Rao said the inquiry had revealed many facts regarding the incident. Those present in the video were also identified and their photographs obtained from the video footage. “The state government has adopted a zero-tolerance policy regarding liquor in the state. The incident took place in a public premises and cannot be forgiven,” said Rao.
 
 Those suspended in connection with the incident include in-charge ward three officer Dignesh Damor, sanitary inspector Shailesh Patel, junior clerk Manu Parmar, sepoy Vijay Nikam, biologist of filaria department Mrugesh Parmar as well as two workers of filaria department Ratilal Parmar and Chandrakant Parmar. Among other conditions, the suspended officials have been asked not to leave the city without written permission.
 
 This is the second time in about a year’s time that Damor has been suspended. He was suspended in May 2016 when he was in-charge ward officer of ward six for encroachments and lack of sanitation in his area. It had come to light that encroachments had come up in different stretches in the ward, but no action was taken.
 
