JAMSHEDPUR: Putting the administration of the   (NIT) Jamshedpur under scanner for alleged  , Congress on Wednesday called upon the Union ministry of human resource development to constitute a probe panel under a retired high court to investigate the allegations. 

 Congress leader  , who is also a senior functionary in the Seraikela Kharswan unit of the party, accused top MIT officials in NIT of swindling several crores from the development funds given to the institute by the Centre. “I will be the first person to depose before the probe panel (should it be constituted) to provide crucial information as to how top officials acted as a cartel to swindle public money through corrupt means,” Sardar said while addressing a press conference in Adityapur on Wednesday. 
 
 He said the “corrupt deeds” of the reputed engineering cradle is not a new story rather andf has been going on for the last several years. 
 
 He said: “The irony is that whenever there’s an initiative on the part of the ministry to probe the allegations, people with vested interests prevent the probing officials from unearthing the truth,” the Congress leader said. 
 
 He claimed that Jamshedpur MP Bidyut Baran Mahato and Chaibasa MP Laxman Gilua took up the issue of the prevailing corruption issue with former HRD minister Smriti Irani and incumbent HRD minister,   respectively and sought investigation in detail. 
 
 “Perhaps, such is the network of the corrupt officials of NIT that the teams that arrived from Delhi to probe on two occasions in 2016 did not find any wrong doing,” Sardar said. 
 
 He said the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) in 2014-15 business year found irregularities in the expense of funds in NIT. “NIT apparently is the only government run educational institute where infrastructure development contracts are given without honouring the established rules and regulations,” Congress leader said. When approached for reaction no official at NIT agreed to speak on the allegations leveled by the Congress leader. 
 
 “I see no merit in the allegations of the Congress leader but if he has demanded probe from the ministry then ministry will look into it,” reacted a senior NIT official preferring anonymity. 
 
