2016 was a windfall year for   in general and the biggest pro-wrestling promotion, World Wrestling Entertainment went through lot of changes with brand extension, injection of new talents under the banner of new era, NXT talents stepping up and of course the Women wrestlers taking centerstage. 

 We pick out the best of what   offered in 2016: 
 
 
 
  The year that belonged to AJ Styles started with an epic Royal Rumble entrance. With   standing alone in the ring, the No. 3 entrant in the 2016 Rumble made the crowd go berserk. The Phenomenal One was rumoured to appear at the Rumble and moment that many thought never happen, happened; that too quite early in the match and he announced himself in a grand manner and what we saw in January was just the precursor of a stellar year Styles would go on to enjoy in 2016.
 
  
  
 
 
  In what was one of the most emotional moment of 2016, former WWE champion Daniel Bryan announced his retirement in February effective immediately due to medical reasons. Bryan came out to a standing ovation to share the unfortunate news with the WWE universe and gave an emotional speech and thanked the fans for their support. After signing with WWE in 2011 for a second time, he went on to win the United States Championship and the World Heavyweight Champion early on and then the tag team gold with Kane, but the defining moment in Bryan's career came with the 'Yes' movement in 2013. Standing at only 5'10'', Bryan was billed as an underdog character and his popularity rose exponentially during the time, culminating in Bryan winning the WWE World Heavyweight championship at WWE's biggest pay-per-view event Wrestlemania in 2014.
 
 
  
  
 
 
  The call for Women’s revolution in the WWE was picking up steam like anything in 2015. And the call was taken by WWE when they injected new lease of life in to the women’s roster with the introduction of Charlotte, Becky Lynch and Sasha Banks. The trio made waves culminating in a triple threat match at Wrestlemania. But the biggest move by WWE in the direction of women’s wrestling came with the dumping of Divas Championship. At the start of Wrestlemania 32, WWE Hall of Gamer Lita unveiled the new Women’s championships and Charlotte walked away with the title in what was a stellar match. Charlotte and Banks continued the momentum by main-eventing WWE pay-per-view Hell in a Cell. At SmackDown Live, Becky Lynch was the inaugural Smackdown women’s champion. NXT call-ups like Alexa Bliss, Nia Jax and Carmella have so far proved they could hold their in the main roster.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  When the 'prodigal son' Shane McMahon returned to the WWE after seven years, in quest for gaining control of Monday Night Raw, the creative straightaway pitted him against none other than The Undertaker inside Hell in a Cell at Wrestlemania 32. Now we all remember Shane for the death-defying acts that he would so regularly pull off during his time as an active wrestler. It includes dropping 50 feet off a set, multiple leaps off the Titantrons and jumping from the top of an ambulance. But perhaps none come close to what Shane came up with at Mania. Having laid the Undertaker on the announce table, he climbed up the cell and from the top of it, performed the elbow drop. The Deadman timely moved out of the way resulting in Shane crashing flat on the announcer's table, leaving the faithful 101,763 jaw-dropped. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  Ever since Styles' debut, the WWE universe was waiting for the face-off between WWE's top guy Cena and the biggest non-WWE wrestling star Styles. And it happened in May when Cena returned from an injury only to be confronted by Styles. It was the meeting of two parallel universe of wrestling and atmosphere, as is often referred to, was electric. Watch it to believe it:
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  Largely due to the increased number of talent available, WWE introduced its second brand split since 2002. It was something that Vince had planned on for quite some time but wasn't fully worked on until SmackDown went live on Tuesdays. Mick Foley and Stephanie McMahon, respectively named the general manager and commissioner of the three-hour flagship show Monday Night Raw, invested more in the future - Seth Rollins, Kevin Owens, Roman Reigns and Finn Balor. The Blue brand was renamed SmackDown Live and under Daniel Bryan and Shane, their general manager and commissioner, drafted the more popular names  , Randy Orton, Kane and others. As RAW and SD Live continue to fight over ratings, the brand extension is seemingly providing the superstars with more storyline ideas to work with.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  There isn't much of a shock value left in professional wrestling. The internet is full of spoilers related to returns and outcomes. So clearly, what transpired during the August 29 edition on Raw was something no one would have expected. During a fatal-4-way elimination match between Seth Rollins, Kevin Owens, Roman Reigns and Big Cass, Triple H appeared on television for the first time since Wrestlemania 32. He hit Reigns with a Pedigree on the floor to eliminate him and seemingly pave the way for Rollins, who has been his 'chosen one ' to win the title. But instead of taking out the other remaining contestant Owens, the COO turned around Pedigreed Rollins instead. As widely speculated, it was done as part of making Rollins a face and a build-up to Triple H v Rollins at Wrestlemania 33.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The Cruiserweight Classic came as breath of fresh air in WWE programming. Stacked with wrestlers, WWE was clearly struggling to keep their superstars and the WWE universe engaged with a linear storyline. They need to think different and they did with the global tournament featuring the independent wrestlers. More importantly, WWE brought back the cruiserweight division, something that the WWE universe was clamouring for long. And it sure was an instant success with the likes of international stars Kota Ibushi, Gran Metalik - more famously known as Máscara Dorada - lighting up the competition. The knockout format worked well for the program and the matches were top notch and something much different than what the WWE main programming offered
 
 
 . 
  
 
 
 
  Goldberg's speculated return to the ring dates back to July last year when he first appeared as a pre-order playable character bonus for the video game WWE 2K17. It eventually led to his return to the WWE 12 years, and Goldberg accepted Paul Heyman's challenge to a Street Fight against his client the 'Beast Incarnate',  . The rematch that was termed "12 years in the making" didn't even last 12 minutes as Goldberg decimated Lesnar in 86 seconds in an absolute squash job. Two spears, a jack hammer; and Lesnar was out of it. The decision to go with such a short match was done to ensure that the two cross paths again. They will be heading into the Royal Rumble 2017 and likely face each other again at Wrestlemania 33. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  In the world of pro wrestling, there comes a time when performers tend to overstay their welcome. Having limited himself to short-term contracts,   at 46 was perhaps on the last leg of his wrestling career. But when you put into account some of the work he has done in 2016, Y2J is far from that point of walking away. Since his return at the 2016 Royal Rumble, Jericho has done some of the best work of his entire career in 2016 on Raw. His catchphrase 'stupid idiot' garners the biggest pop, and his heel tactics are so amazing that everyone wants to be on the 'List of Jericho'. How much of a heel is he, really? He is cheered emphatically during his matches and promos. From pairing with "best friend" Kevin Owens to a clipboard, moustache, collection of scarves - fans simply can't get enough.
 
 
  
 
 
