RANCHI: The state government on Monday said it had implemented 79.65% of the total   and   in the   for the 2016-17 fiscal. According to the action taken report ( ), the government has implemented 135 out of the 172 announcements made by chief minister   during his budget speech last year. 

 The ATR, which was presented before the assembly alongside the financial budget for 2017-18 fiscal year, said the state had implemented all the new schemes in the agriculture and animal husbandry, drinking water and sanitation and the energy sectors.
 
 "A total of 66 agriculture single window cells have been established on experimental basis during the Kharif season," the report said, when asked on the status of the establishing 100 single window cells across 24 districts. It has successfully implemented the Fasal Bima Yojana by insuring 3.53 lakh hectares of agriculture land and 8.29 lakh farmers, the report added.
 
 In the energy sector, the government said it has provided electricity to 1,493 villages against its target of 2,525 till December 2016 and has distributed 81.44 lakh subsidized LED bulbs among 16.5 lakh rural consumers. 
 
 In the food, civil services and public distribution sector, the report said the state has distributed double fortified iodized salt and set rolling Mukhyamantri mobile kitchen as announced in the budget speech.
 
 However, a few key announcements made during the last year's budget speech have been delayed. The distribution of 3.2 solar powered LED lanterns to students between classes VI and XII of government schools is yet to begin.
 
 Also, the health department failed to establish the art diabetes centre and super-speciality neurology and nephrology centres in Brambe of Ranchi district. The establishment of a 500 bed hospital in Jamshedpur has also been stalled. The ambitious plan of providing Wi-Fi internet connectivity in Ranchi was also delayed with the government "preparing a road map with the help of BSNL". The beginning of construction of a golden triangle expressway between Ranchi-Bokaro-Jamshedpur and Dhanbad was delayed due to environmental clearance and land acquisition plan, the ATR said. 
 
 
