HYDERABAD: A salaried techie, a semi-salaried comedian and a  . That's how   opens her shows. 

 In a space dominated by men, Banerjee is among the few women in Hyderabad who has managed to fight her way through sexist jokes and uncomfortable questions, to make her mark in the field of comedy.
 
 But the journey from being a 30-year-old married woman to going on stage, hasn't been easy. "Few people still ask me how my family allows me to do what I do. They also want to know if my husband has no issues with it," Manjusha says. This despite her one-and-half-year-long stint in the profession, peppered with multiple appearances at open mics and comedy club shows. 
 
 Sadly, there aren't too many like her in the city. Case in point: The poor turnout at a recent audition held for women comedies. "We got seven registrations for the auditions. Not only me, even the celebrity panelists were amazed at the thin footfall," said  , founder of Live Laughter Club. 
 
 Celebrity comedian  , a name now popular in the 'funny peoples' circuit, puts it in perspective. "There are multiple reasons why the numbers (of women comedians) aren't high. Family pressure - where performance and stage isn't considered a good occupation for an unmarried girl, fear of embarrassing oneself which a lot of women don't like and fear of failing could be some of the reasons," said Sumukhi. 
 
 While Krishnaveni concurs, she upholds another, extremely important, point - the fear of being judged. Recalling her journey that kicked off in 2014, she said: "For the longest time, I could not get sponsors for my shows. People were reluctant to put their money, as they judged my abilities based on my gender. I was left to fend for myself. It was only later, when I started partnering with people and organisations that the money started to come in."
 
 But pooling in the moolah isn't the only challenge. There are bigger battles to be won: Tactfully dealing with hecklers sitting in the audience and taking to self-deprecation, albeit suiting the sensibilities of the audience, being some of them. "Women are often asked to be quiet about their issues like menstrual cycle or sex. While venturing into these areas on stage is possible, we have to ensure that our jokes suit the audience's taste," said Jayashree, an amateur comedian and new entrant in the Hyderabad circuit. Alas, even humour is a slave in the hands of gender biases.
 
