GREATER NOIDA: Hundreds of   on   gheraoed the district magistrate’s office and started a mass indefinite hunger strike. They were demanding enhanced compensation for their land and the release of 39 farmers who were arrested on Friday.

 Late on Saturday night, more than 100 farmers including women, who were at the spot since 5pm, were continuing their hunder strike at the district collectorate office in Surajpur,  . While ADM (finance) Ghanshyam Singh offered to get 18 of the arrested farmers from Sirsa village released if the protesters agreed to end their strike, the farmers rejected the offer.
 
 In all, 128 farmers were arrested on Friday for stalling work and stopping an Express train at the Bodaki railway station. Of the 128 arrested farmers, 39 were sent to the Luksar jail under Section 151 of the CrPC (to prevent commission of cognisable offences). “We will not leave this place until our fellow farmers are released. The administration is trying to suppress our struggle,” Ajit Singh, a protester, said. Many of those who sat on strike were women.
 
 The farmers, who were arrested in different places in Greater Noida on Friday, were demanding that they be given four times the compensation under the new Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act of 2013 since their villages come under the ‘rural area’ category. 
 
 They also demanded employment and access to the Eastern Peripheral Expressway ( ) through service lanes.
 
 While the administration is firm on not releasing the farmers and on starting work on the EPR at any cost, the farmers have refused to budge from their stand and said they would continue their strike till their fellow farmers were released from jail.
 
 The 39 farmers who were arrested include Sunil Fouji, who has been spearheading the campaign against the EPE. “We arrested 21 of the farmers for blocking the train while 18 were arrested by the SDM Sadar for stalling work at Sirsa village. They have been produced in court and we have received their remand for 14 days. They can be released after bail,” circle officer Dadri Piyush Singh told TOI. An FIR has been lodged by the Railway Protection Force against 21 farmers who blocked the train at Bodaki station.
 
 
