VELLORE: The dispute over the jurisdiction between the   of   and   has left the dead body of a 38-year-old man, who was found murdered in a   on the  , unattended under the scorching sun for over six hours on Wednesday. The hapless mother, Amsa, aged about 60 years, of the deceased was crying inconsolably when the AP and TN police were busy arguing over the jurisdictions and legal complications. 

 Sources said that Kamalakannan, a native of Narayanapuram in Vaniyambadi taluk in Vellore district, was found murdered inside Venkatarajapuram forest area in Chittoor district. He was stoned to death. "Kamalakannan murdered his wife over family dispute two years ago. He came out on bail six months ago. Since then, he was wandering aimlessly," said police sources.
 
 Upon information about the murder, Sub-Inspector of Police of Thimmapet Station Devaraj and his team visited the scene of the crime at around noon. They alerted the Kuppam police about the murder. After an hour, the AP police reached the spot and they stated that the scene of the crime did not fall under their jurisdiction. 
 
 They refused to recover the body for investigation.
 
  "The AP police initially refused to take the case stating that the murder spot did not fall under their jurisdiction. But the revenue officials of TN and AP confirmed that the spot comes under Chittoor district after verifying their documents and maps," Circle Inspector of Vaniyambadi S Rajasekaran told TOI. 
 
 He added that they have also told the AP police team led by circle inspector of Kuppam M Rajasekar that the murder spot was one km from the Tamil Nadu border of Thumperi village.
 
 After dodging for over six hours, the AP police finally decided to take the case. The police officials shifted the body of Kamalakannan to the Government Hospital in Kuppam at about 6.30 pm. 
 
 "After receiving a complaint from the deceased's mother, we have registered a case and recovered the body. The post-mortem would be performed by Thursday," said Kuppam circle inspector. 
 
 
