LUCKNOW: The central role of ancient   in the country’s political history is undisputed. But amid political chanting of Lord Ram’s name in election season, a people’s group in the temple city has pledged to turn it into “India's Vatican”. 

 The vision includes cleaning up the Kaushal capital, maintaining its ghats, promoting its secular face and doing away with the legacy of dispute. Identifying “lack of cleanliness” as the biggest roadblock in the development of the place, the group called Sri Saryu Avadh Balak Samiti launched a Safai  , a drive to sensitise citizens about  .
 
 Talking to TOI, group member  , said, “A shlok (verse) in the Atharva Ved says Ayodhya was established by gods and was as prosperous as heaven. Keeping its pure all-religious importance in mind, why can’t Ayodhya be India’s Vatican? ” 
 
 Reminding that Ayodhya is home to over 20 Islamic mazaars (tombs) besides being a must visit for Jains and Buddhists, he added, “The legacy of this 9,000-year-old city is dying a slow death because of poor upkeep.” 
 
 About the vision for Vatican, seer Barfi Maharaj said, “Every nook and corner in Vatican is clean but that is not true for Ayodhya. In times of experiential tourism, tourist devotees are deprived of basic facilities like toilets and safe drinking water and issue of cleanliness also comes in way of faith so we can change it through our efforts.” 
 
 The effort, which has been supported by Ayodhya Municipal Corporation and Ayodhya Shodh Sansthan, began with school children in January.
 
 Several public meetings and dialogues were organised to spread the word on cleanliness. A painting competition was also organised wherein children were asked to draw Ayodhya of their dreams in which over 800 kids from 130 schools participated. 
 
 Entries selected by a jury formed by Ayodhya Sansthan would be exhibited on March 19 in Tulsi Vatika, the city’s centre point. Best entries would receive cash prizes. The Samiti, which is a 115-year-old organisation, has adopted an evening school where children are taught cleanliness and health along with other subjects. 
 
 Traders community and residents have extended support to the movement. “It is sad that Ayodhya's development is not on any party's agenda. Issues affecting our daily lives like cleanliness, safe drinking water, power supply, public transport and tourist facilities need to be addressed,” said Lakshmi Tripathi, a housewife associated with the campaign.
 
