NAVI MUMBAI: The residents of sector 11,  , are happy that the weekly interactive meetings with civic chief Tukaram Mundhe have rendered desired results, as the administration is cleaning the   running through the sector. But residents of sector 8,  , are still waiting for   to develop the rundown  .

 Taking cognizance of multiple complaints about the condition of the drainage channel during the January 7 meeting, the civic administration said it would be undertaking cleaning and beautification work of the nullah.
 
 The longest natural channel, at 7.99km, will undergo major cleaning and renovation work. “The area adjacent to the channel will be developed like it has been done with the channel in sector 17, Vashi,” said additional municipal commissioner Ankush Chavan.
 
 The engineering department has worked out an estimated expenditure of Rs 24 lakh. Officials from the department said they would start with the cleaning process and then create a lawn area on the slopes of the channel. They will also fence the nullah to prevent further dumping of waste.
 
 “This channel, as per an RTI response by NMMC, has never been cleaned and, given the fact that industrial effluents are drained regularly, the channel’s condition is deplorable. We have become used to the foul stench but at least the sight will be better with the cleaning,” said Saurabh Pandya, president of sector 11 Koparkhairane Residents Association. 
 
 Meanwhile, residents of sector 8, Vashi, are still awaiting action on the assurance given by the administration last month to develop the rundown sunset point in Vashi.
 
 “Going by the commissioner’s fast-paced work mode, we expected that the administration would carry out the restoration work with immediate effect. At the meeting held in December we were assured that at least the wild growth would be removed but there has been no work done at all,” said Ashish Baldev, a resident. 
 
 Civic officials said the work was under process. —Sameera Kapoor Munshi
 
 
