The 131st birth anniversary of the last Nizam, Mir Osman Ali Khan, on Thursday, put the spotlight back on 173 pieces of exquisite jewellery of the royal family, which lie locked in Reserve Bank of India vaults in Delhi. Nizam's family renewed their long-standing demand to bring the treasure back to the city.

 The jewels travelled from Hyderabad to RBI lockers way back in 1995 after Government of India bought the treasures from Nizam's trust for an officially recorded sum of Rs 218 crore. Today, rough estimates peg its value at a staggering Rs 50,000 crore. “It is unfortunate that people of this city are deprived of such an important part of history,“ said Himayath Ali Mirza, one of the great grandsons of the seventh Nizam.
 
 While nostalgia haunts Hyderabad on the last Nizam's legacy, residents have been allowed only two glimpses of the royal treasure trove: in 2001and in 2006 when the jewels were exhibited at   for brief periods. Both times, the event drew lakhs of visitors before treasure was sent back to RBI vaults.
 
 Great grandson of the last Nizam, Himayath Ali Mirza, said: “We will seek an audience with Telangana chief minister   to reiterate our demand. Hyderabad must have its own museum to display the Nizam's jewellery.“
 
 His mother   and maternal uncle, Shahmat Jah, couldn't agree more. In fact, together they are even willing to knock on  's doors to facilitate return of jewellery to Hyderabad.
 
 Even as one section of society in Hyderabad is apprehensive about the family's plans, citing infighting as a reason for their concern, Nizam's descendants claim they are united on the issue. The family apart, a many historians and city oldtimers too make a similar appeal. “Let it still be Government of India's property, but display it in Hyderabad where it belongs,“ said a city historian.
 
 “If they (jewels) went on permanent display, these would attract many thousands of visitors from India and abroad. They are unique, a national treasure that shouldn't be locked away in a bank vault. To do so is an aberration that wouldn't be tolerated in most countries,“ said John Zubrzycki, author of The Last Nizam. Referring to Hyderabad as the “natural home“ of the jewels, he said it's“high time“ they were returned. “Hyderabad is a global city, a thriving sophisticate metropolis. The jewels should stand testament to its rich past, they should be used to inform the public about their history,“ said Zubrzycki.
 
 While some hoped this shift would be made possible when the TRS government assumed office ­ given KCR's respect for the Nizam ­ the three-year-old government has made no such move. “We thought KCR would at least raise this issue with the Centre, but that of course hasn't been the case. Let us see if he breaks his silence in future,“ said a city heritage expert.
 
 “While Hyderabad is far more impressive than Rajasthan, the city draws fewer tourists because much of its history was destroyed within first 50 years after the end of Nizam's rule. Apart from Chowmahalla and Falaknuma, they haven't done anything to enhance its appeal,“ said  , writer and historian. For him too, Hyderabad is the “obvious choice“ for housing the Nizam's jewels.
 
