Bold, unabashed and cheeky — actress   is this and more. She has been in India since January for her daughter, who wants to learn dance. The dusky beauty is also in the process of signing new projects. The actress last made headlines for her bold photoshoot for American photographer Jade Beall. 

 “People have an obsession in the US about looking a certain way after pregnancy. They have Jessica Alba and Beyonce as their role model and want to have the same body structure. They cannot accept their body with stretch marks or sagging breasts. I had just given birth to my son and wanted to be part of the shoot,” shares the distracted actress, as her son, now in playschool, insists on reciting Roman numerals. But life has been rather unusual for Kasthuri who has been away from the limelight for more than 15 years. Married to a hotshot physician in the US, the last three years has been tough for the Amaidhi Padai actress. “My daughter was hospitalised, and I am just glad she is alive and kicking. That period taught me a lot. I lost my parents several years ago, but that was a different kind of losing. But when you are faced with losing your child, it is scary. She is a leukemia survivor. That phase made me question a lot of things. It was sheer torment to look at this child with wires and tubes attached to her. We kept ourselves looking forward. My husband’s parents were there for us,” says Kasthuri. 
 
 
 A rank holder in Class X and XII, Kasthuri says she has been thrown out of more movies than she has been a part of. “Actresses can be stupid — they ask for too much money, they say no to a movie, they don’t know how to take decisions, and sometimes, you just can’t get along with the decision makers. There were movies I was thrown out of because I was not toeing the expected line or ready to give in to the favours that were asked of me. And, I would like to point out that most of this was in relation to this one hero — this one guy who is a hero/politician now. I think it was some kind of ego thing for him. I respect him in so many ways, but he couldn’t take no for an answer. He kept harassing me for that one movie I did with him and threw me out of two. 
 
 My go-to excuse was my mother and he called her to tell her how important it was for us to be in his good books. She was this bindaas lawyer, who didn’t give a damn about what he was saying. It didn’t stop with that. He even caught me unaware once. Let’s just say it was a lesson on how to get out of an unwanted situation,” confesses Kasthuri, adding, “You don’t wake up thinking you are going to be assaulted today. When I used to travel by bus, I would keep my hand on my back, so nobody pinched my back. I think I lost a little bit of my innocence on these days. But it made me stronger and I promised myself that I will not get into trouble. I am going to have a straight-forward approach in life. If people speak ill of you, you have to live your life to prove them wrong.”
 
 
 Contrary to the popular opinion, Kasthuri clarifies that movies are not made for the actor and director to take actresses to bed. “Usually in the movie industry, nobody invests so much money to get cozy with a heroine. It is a big industry and there are enough people who can do you that favour. I have never come across any intimidating person who sits and hatches plots for girls. There is a difference between appreciating one’s look or complimenting them and being crass. I want to tell that whatever is going on in an actress’s life is nobody’s business. Acting is a serious job and is not a joke. It involves a lot of physical labour. And frankly, whatever you do last night shows up on your face. It is not a ‘rock star’ life like how it is perceived and not everyone is sniffing cocaine and coming to the shooting spot. Actresses are sometimes made to stand on a rock, in the peak of summer for a song. They have to look love-struck with a guy who is twice your age — only a few people are watching us and the guy would be trying his best not to fall on you to make your life more miserable. Amidst all this, you have to remember lines and all this has to be shot in a set deadline. Not everyone can just sneak in and have an affair, when everyone knows each other,” gushes the quizzer.
 
 So is she saying that casting couch doesn’t exist at all? A lawyer, too, Kasthuri has a fitting response to it. “Corruption is an ever prevailing phenomenon and not restricted to any one field — be it in forms, it does exist. In fact, corruption is the most common form of harassment that people face on a day-to-day basis. High-stake industries will have a lot of wild things going on. There will always be a section of people who attain their aim by hook or by crook. I must admit that it is very trendy to talk about what’s happening in a celebrity’s bedroom. People tend to believe what they want to believe. People are extremely judgmental and perverted about their perceptions about celebrities and artistes, in general. This is a deeply rooted prejudice in our society,” rues Kasthuri.
 
 Not even a few months in Chennai and rumours about Kasthuri have already started doing the rounds. But nothing deters the confidence of this strong-willed woman. “There was a rumour about me going out with a bakery owner from Madurai, when the fact is that I have been to Madurai only three times. I have had close friends telling me that in their circle, people are talking about who I am seeing now. It doesn’t matter if a magazine or a newspaper said that, but when friends ask you such questions, it hurts. Industrialists and wealthy guys from second-tier cities think that actresses are easily available. I have experiences of jewellery owners, top-notch industrialists, etc, approaching me. If one actress could fulfill your fantasy for the time being, you would want to keep on trying with many others as well. If I go to a five-star hotel, people believe what they want to, but in reality, I would have had dinner just like any body else, come back home and gone to sleep,” shares an angry Kasthuri.
 A state-level hockey champion, she believes that women can achieve things without the help of a man. “In India, people do not have the maturity to differentiate between what they see on screen and off screen. I am neither the goddess you saw in one film, or the vixen I have played in another one. I hope at least the next generation people watch a movie for its content without taking the characters to home. Actresses would like to be part of your dreams, if they become a wet dream, that doesn’t mean the actress is a slut. People think women can’t climb up the ladder without the favours of a man. Aishwarya   dancing at the UN is a huge achievement, but there are those who want to believe that she got the opportunity as she is Rajini’s daughter. Did he teach her how to dance? He must have enrolled her in classes, but she ultimately has to dance. We only grudgingly accept a Kiran Bedi or an Indira Nooyi,” 
 she signs off.
 
 
