Most festivals in Mumbai are about fun, festivities and food. And,   definitely tops the list. However, this year, the celebrations are not just about pandal decorations and star-studded cultural extravaganzas alone. Rather, Durga Puja organisers across Mumbai are supporting causes, making pandals that are differently-abled-friendly and creating special walkways for the senior citizens among other things. 

 Durga Puja and Navratri — twin festivals of the Devi (Goddess) — are celebrated not just by the Bengalis and Gujaratis, but by most Mumbaikars irrespective of their caste and creed. That makes it one of the most important cultural activities in the city at this time of the year. 
 
 There are some associations that believe in promoting the culture and ethos of Bengal and bring it to the people of Mumbai, while retaining the traditional ‘ghoroa’ or homely nature of the puja. There are also Durga Puja associations that conduct the puja like a massive corporate, commercial festival. And the best thing is that Mumbaikars, enjoy both, equally.
 
 
 
 Every year, pandals present young dancers, singers and bands via their cultural programmes. This year, a couple of pandals in the city will witness a unique programme — Raibenshe. Sourav Mitra from the Times Powai Sarvajanin Durgotsav (TPSB) says, “For the first time, we are bringing on stage a near-extinct martial war dance from Bengal called Raibenshe. 
 
 This programme will be held on Saptami, September 27.” The dance form will also be showcased at the Tejpal Auditorium by   on another day. Susmita Mitra, chairperson of the Social and Cultural Committee of Bombay Durga Bari Samiti says, “This is a rarely seen dance form from medieval Bengal and promises to be captivating.”
 
 The Kallol Durga Puja, Goregaon, into its 53rd year, is encouraging Rabindra Nritya in one of their programmes. Utpal Chaudhuri, a member of the organisation says, “On Ashtami, September 28, we have Shahana Centre for Tagore Music and Culture performing a dance ballet Premer Joware, based on a combination of Rabindranath Tagore’s poem Parishodh and his famous ballet Shyama.” 
 
 Into its 32nd year, the Sarbojanin Durga Puja, Kalidas, Mulund, has always been a homely and welcoming puja. And every year, they have a traditional Durga idol. There are devotees and believers who go back there every year because of the aastha and love the Durga protima (idol) evokes. 
 
 Thane’s New Bengal Club (NBC) has invited Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya’s Museum On Wheels, for all three days of the puja. Susmita Dasgupta, a member of   says, “We also have an all-ladies dhunochi dance by 28 women on Navami morning.” 
 Suburban pandals will also showcase Bengali folk songs like Baul Sangeet, Nritya Natya and traditional dances and songs. 
 
 
 
 With the rise in awareness and sensitivity towards the differently- abled population in the city, Durga Puja pandals too are taking steps to ensure that they are comfortable visiting the pandals. 
 
 
 
 There is one common thread that connects most Durga Puja celebrations across the city — and that is working for and supporting social causes.  , emphasises a lot on this and works with special themes every year to reach out to women, children and senior citizens. 
 
 The Bombay Durga Bari Samiti, one of the oldest Durga Pujas of Mumbai, dating back to the year 1930 will be ushering in the 88th year of celebrations. They grant scholarships to underprivileged and deserving students, and distribute food grains to organisations looking after and providing education to underprivileged children. Abhijit Chatterjee, president of the New Bengal Club, Thane, says, “We donate food and provisions to a children’s home, give away books and stationery to special schools here.” 
 
 
 
 The   has begun a unique initiative — keeping in mind the fact that Durga Puja is a community festival, they have come up with a programme that encourages inter-community mingling. 
 
 Bibhash Maity, president of the association says, “We began this last year and the response was great, so, we plan to do it in a bigger way this year. We invite people from different communities, castes and religions and show them all the various little nuances that our festival is about. This encourages feelings of oneness, as most can connect with and understand the relevance of the various rituals.” 
 
 Tarunkanti Nath from the Bengali Association of Kalamboli, Navi Mumbai, says, "We have been celebrating Durga Puja for the last 18 years. Not just the Bengali community but family and friends from other communities also celebrate the festival with much pomp and grandeur. Shri Kali Mata Sanstha Kalombali is celebrating their third year of Durga Puja today at the Shree Kali Mata Mandir premises. With four days of bhog and cultural programs by the locals and professional groups." 
 
 
 
 The last few years has seen a rise in pandals that are making special arrangements for the elderly. Sourav Mitra from TPSB says, “A senior citizen can ask for a wheelchair at our gate and within minutes our volunteers will ensure that the person is safely seated and can easily visit the pandal inside.”
 
 
 
 In most pandals, both small and big, plans are afoot on a massive scale to ensure the safety and security of the devotees. Apart from the regular and door frame metal detectors that are present at all venues, some will also have contingents of police including women police, specially trained commando forces, closed-circuit television camera for 24x7 monitoring, dog squads and bouncers deployed. With thousands attending, the organisers are especially making sure that constant and thorough monitoring is carried out on all the days. 
 
 This year, there has been a distinct rise in the number of CCTVs, guards and bouncers at the venues.   of the  , says, “This year we will have over 50 CCTVs installed all across the venue.” 
 
 Mumbaikars can look forward to a fun, culturally alive and safe Durga Puja this year. 
 
 
 
 
 
