MUMBAI: Shabnam Adil Khan was married in 2015 but within days she discovered that her husband was already married with two children. By then, he had already taken away all her jewellery and wedding finery. Then the torture began.

 “He would drink and beat me. He even filmed me in our bedroom and threatened to circulate the clipping,“ she says. He tried to strangle her and even push her from a moving car. Finally, he abandoned her and went to Saudi Arabia, though he kept returning to Mumbai.
 
 The fear of the casually pronounced   forced her to bear the torture. “ After the husband divorces you, what is the future?“ she asks. It was only in April 2016 that she filed a police case against her husband and in-laws. Like her, there are many who may not have been direct victims of an oral divorce decree, but have borne extreme domestic violence because their husbands threatened them with the triple talaq card.
 
 Women like Shabnam are now coming out with their stories as the Supreme Court gears up hear petitions challenging the constitutional validity of the triple talaq on May 11. Shab nam is among those who spoke at a press conference organized by the Bharatiya Muslim Mahila Andolan (BMMA), which has filed an intervention plea in the Supreme Court.
 
 “There are women whose husbands have threatened them with triple talaq and abandoned them without pronouncing it. They are left with an ambiguous status and no mainte nance,“ says Noorjehan Safia Niaz, co-founder of BMMA.“When there are disputes, the police also don't want to get involved because they say these matters are part of your personal law,“ says the BMMA 's Khatoon Shaikh.
 
 The organization wants triple talaq to be scrapped and the Muslim personal law to be codified. “We want the husband and wife to be allowed to present their views over a 90-day arbitration period,“ says Niaz.
 
  who was married eight years ago and was abandoned three years ago wants to retain her marital home and be given maintenance.“My husband used beat me, not give me money to run the house and constantly threaten to divorce me. I kept quiet because if he pronounced the talaq, I would have no future,“ she said. Finally, he abandoned her without pronouncing a talaq.
 
 Nasreen Shaikh's husband married another woman after abandoning her. “He used to hit me and say don't tell anyone or I will divorce you,“ says Nasreen.When she was pregnant, she used to be locked outside the house the entire night. She was sent to her parent's home for her delivery but once she had a daughter, her husband never took her back. Later, she learnt he had remarried.
 
 Nasreen wants her husband to take her back or at least pay maintenance. “ After I approached women's groups, he offered to pay Rs 50,000 to leave me.He paid Rs 30,000 and then took it back saying he would buy a house for us. Instead, he used the money to get re-married,“ she says.
 
