PATNA: Come Tuesday and people of the city may start getting relief from   roaming freely on the roads. 

 Following chief minister Nitish Kumar’s directive to officials concerned during a   last month to make roads cattle-free, the district administration has constituted a team to supervise shifting of stray cows to   in Patna City. Officials of   (PMC) and animal husbandry department have also been made members of the team.
 
 Patna DM   said the team would focus on vegetable and fruit markets where stray cows are mostly found. Traffic police personnel have been asked to either inform the district administration or PMC if they come across stray cows. 
 
 The administration has already received Rs 1 lakh to rehabilitate the stray cattle. Expenditure on fodder and medicine would be borne by the animal husbandry department. Two PMC vehicles would be used in transporting the animals. 
 
 PMC commissioner Abhishek Singh on Saturday instructed all executive officers to form separate teams in their respective circles in this regard. He said cows sans owners will be shifted to the ‘gaushala’. “If someone claims ownership of the rehabilitated cattle, he/she will have to provide relevant information, including residential proof and photographs, besides paying a fine of Rs 5,000 and expenditure on food, which is Rs 350 per day, to get back the cattle. Singh said a vehicle can carry five cows at a time to the ‘gaushala’.
 
 Another PMC official said ageing and non-milch   are mainly found on roads. “Once they are of no commercial value, their owners leave the cattle on roads without food and water. These cattle can be seen eating plastic and garbage,” he added.
 
 Shri Krishna Gaushala, which has the capacity to accommodate 240 cows, is already housing 200 cattle. The DM said a vacant land of around 20 kattha has been earmarked at Katra in Patna City to develop another cow shelter. “Plans are also afoot to establish more cow shelters at places like Khusrupur and Barh,” the DM added. 
 
 
