BHOPAL: Ahead of the municipal budget,   ( ) has indicated to implement new hawkers’ policy. The new hawkers’ policy envisions regulated dedicated zones that will free footpaths and pavements and provide relief from encroachments to the public.

 BMC draft policy agrees that hawkers obstruct free movement on roads and pavements. Crowded markets and clogged roads are further narrowed by street vendors and their carts. The new policy, will ensure street clear of hawkers with designated spaces. Hawkers will also not be permitted to leave behind their cart in these open spaces.
 
 Currently, civic body charges hawkers on a daily basis which officials admit is not a fool-proof system. BMC has around 22,000 registered hawkers in the city and its revenue in some wards is less than Rs 10,000.
 
 “There would be smart hawkers’ corner in each of the 85 wards and we would allocate funds for the initiative,” said mayor Alok Sharma. The move is contentious as it also directly hits on local politicians who have been benefitted due to the lack of regulation all these years.
 
 Once the hawkers’ policy is set in motion, BMC expects to raise its revenue by about Rs 50 crore in the first year itself. Civic officials visited Pune last year before replicating hawkers’ policy prevalent there.
 
 BMC would enable biometric identification of hawkers, GPS tracking of allocated space in the zone and this could mean an end to subletting of hawkers’ zone.
 
 “Once a space is sublet, the vendor would have to pay irrespective of the fact whether the space is used or not. Currently, the challan is made per week or per day, as per the locality. BMC would charge for a month when the new system is in place,” said a BMC official.
 
 “BMC officials insist that no hawker would be allowed to leave his cart behind in the night and all zones would be cleared by evening,” he added.
 
 BMC has begun the task of identifying a hawker zone in each of the 85 BMC wards. BMC Budget allocation for new hawkers’ corner is Rs 15 lakh for each ward.
 
 The challenge however would be to find suitable designated places in the state capital, an official said. BMC ward officers have been directed to identify hawkers’ zone within in 15 days.
 
 ***
 
 BOXX..BOXXXXXXX
 
 EARNING A LIVELIHOOD
 
 Bhopal has around 15,000 registered hawkers
 
 Some 40 zones are officially mapped as ‘hawkers’ zones’
 
 As per policy, vendors can only be located on roads wider than 25 feet
 
 Vendors are prohibited within 100 meter radius of places of archaeological importance
 
 As per The Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street vending) Bill, 2012 number of hawkers allowed in a city cannot be more than 2.5% of the population
 
