BHOPAL: The   may still be mulling shifting the   from April-March to January-December, but Madhya Pradesh is first off the blocks in announcing a  

 “The state cabinet has decided to change the financial year to January-December from the current April-March. With this decision, the state budget will be tabled in the assembly in December-January while financial closure will be done in the month of December every year,” state legislative affairs and public relations minister Narottam Mishra told reporters after Tuesday’s cabinet meeting.
 
 The minister did not elaborate how the government will go about it especially when the Centre will be on a different schedule since it is yet to accept the Jan-Dec shift. Discussions are underway, Mishra said, reiterating that the MP government will “try to finish the current budget proceedings by December this year”. “The next budget will be presented in December this year or January 2018,” he added.
 
 Sources in Mantralaya said that the decision reflects the initiatives taken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who had pitched for a Jan-Dec fiscal at the Niti Aayog meeting on April 24. “It’s said the PM wants the financial schedule changed as it is more appropriate for farmers. Hence, the initiative by the Madhya Pradesh cabinet,” a source said.
 
 Financial experts point out that there is a lot of running around expected this year because a switch to calendar fiscal would mean shifting the tax assessment year and massive changes in procedure and infrastructure, especially at company level.
 
 “The central government has not yet taken a decision on changing the financial year. It is still under consideration though agreed in principle. The decision by Madhya Pradesh government has been taken in haste and will have to be rolled back if the Centre defers any change in fiscal,” said chartered accountant Pramod Sharma.
 
 He pointed out that the financial year — as per Income Tax Act, Companies Act and Goods and Services Tax (GST) Act — is still from April to March. Moreover, agriculture year in Madhya Pradesh is from July to June as per the MP Land Revenue Code. This is crucial because agriculture is powering MP’s double-digit growth.
 
 “Changing to a January-December year or continuing with April-March will not make much difference in the current system. This seems to be the government’s attempt to take credit for being the first in the country to initiate this process,” said former chief secretary Nirmala Buch.
 
 She felt the government should instead focus on key areas that could transform the life of common man. “If the government wants a change, it should say why, and also publish the results after a year or so,” she said. “Most of the financial institutions maintain quarterly budgets so they will simply change the last quarter break-up or progress to the next quarter as per the fiscal year. There won’t be much of a change as such,” she added.
 
 Ajay Vyas, convener of the State Level Bankers’ Committee, said, “I don’t think it will affect banking operations vis-à-vis the state government’s functioning. These days, we complete our books every quarter. This also facilitates banking operations.”
 
 
