MUMBAI: Given cost and time constraints, organisers of major sporting leagues in India have always struggled with getting the scheduling right. It was one of those challenges faced by the parent body of the   that resulted in   playing all their five matches at home at a stretch within a span of 11 days, the last of which saw them lose to   4-3 on a breezy Tuesday evening. Having won three and drawn the remainder of their previous four matches in the fifth season of the competition, Mumbai started favourites at the MHA-Mahindra Stadium against a side that had witnessed a sudden slump in form­ - enduring heavy defeats in their previous two games, after a couple of wins in their first two matches.

 The hosts shot into a 2-0 lead (a field goal counts for two in the league) in the 27th minute with drag-flicker   Singh stepping up and scooping the ball past goalkeeper   off a penalty stroke that was awarded after forward   was needlessly brought down by Devendra Walmiki in the striking circle. Two minutes after resumption of play, the Lancers clawed back into the contest when skipper   struck through a short corner, beating goalkeeper   diving to his right. Soon after, they won another short corner and Fuerste sounded the board again, beating the outstretched legs of Harte, to bring them level 2-2.
 
 Mumbai could have opened up a lead again in the 34th minute but they squandered chances off two short corners, with Harmanpreet failing to beat the Kalinga defence on both occasions. The home crowd was stunned into silence in the 40th minute when striker Glenn Turner deflected a sharp long hit from Anand Lakra on the right flank to help the visitors edge ahead at 4-2.
 
 Nevertheless, Mumbai were back in the hunt three minutes later when Harmanpreet scored through a reverse hit that beat Charter to make it 4-3. Having failed to beat the goalkeeper off a drag-flick, the junior India star found himself perfectly placed to trump his opponent off the rebound.
 
 The pressure of playing matches on successive days seemed to take a toll on  's side, but they still lead the table with 18 points. 
 
