VISAKHAPATNAM: After two months of setting up of the   screening unit at   (KGH), seven per cent of the women screened have been detected in the pre-malignant stage. To make the screening procedure even more effective, an advanced test facility - liquid based cytology (LBC) technique would also be shortly introduced at the hospital.

 To enable early diagnosis of carcinoma of the cervix, the cervical cancer screening unit was set up in the outpatient (OP) gynaecology block of KGH in early December. The departments of pathology and gynaecology are collaborating in the screening process. Almost all patients visiting the Gynaecology OP for gynaec problems are being sent for the pap smear test and samples are sent to the pathology department for screening.
 
 Head of the department of pathology Dr A Bhagyalakshmi said, “We started the Women’s Health-Comprehensive Cancer Screening and Treatment Project in collaboration with gynaecology and radiology departments from December 2 last year with the help of funds from Amcana (Andhra Medical College Alumni of North Costal America and AMC 1966 batch). The main objective of this project is to detect the   of the cervix with prompt treatment. As all cases are monitored by  , we can trace out cases for periodic check-up, which is required to detect the pre-malignant lesions. 
 
 So far over a period of two months we could screen 315 smears and found seven per cent of the cases to be pre-malignant. Right now we are doing the pap smears for the female patients with complaints. We are going to do the screening for all female patients attending KGH.”   Dr T Radha and Dr A Bhagyalakshmi are coordinating the project.
 
 Every week, the radiology department of KGH gets at least two cases of cervical cancer in the advanced (stage 3 and 4) stage. Carcinoma of the cervix is caused by Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) and in India, both urban and rural married women are more susceptible to the virus but the risk is higher in case of rural women as genital hygiene is often compromised.
 
 The cervical cancer is one of the few highly preventable cancers. The objective of the early screening is to intervene at stage zero, even before one is detected with cervical cancer. The early detection and elimination of pre-cancerous cervical lesions effectively prevent the development of invasive cervical cancer and mortality, say doctors.
 
 Meanwhile, an advanced and more accurate testing procedure LBC technique would be introduced in the hospital. It would use thin prep instrument, which would be procured from Chennai or Bengaluru.
 
 Explaining the differences between the conventional pap smear test and LBC, Dr Bhagyalakshmi said, “Follow up of the cases after conventional pap smear test is every three years if the initial pap smear is normal but with liquid based cytology, it’s five years. LBC has good sensitivity for detecting epithelial cell abnormality and enables testing for high risk types of HPV (virus strains 16 and 18) in the same sitting as the sample can be preserved. The residual specimens from the LBC technique can be used to detect human papilloma virus DNA through immune-cytochemistry, if needed. This technique Improves quality of smears with good preservation of cell morphology and removal of mucus and blood. It also requires shorter report-giving time and doesn’t require separate fixative (fluid required to preserve and transport smears in the conventional method).”
 
