AURANGABAD: Another group of residents, this time from Misarwadi, took out a ‘handa andolan’(protest involving   pots) to the municipal office demanding regular water supply to their locality on Thursday.

 The residents staged a demonstration in front of the   (AMC) to draw attention of the authorities towards their long pending demands.  , leader of the demonstrations, said that Misarwadi village was brought under the   limit about 20-years-ago. “However, the civic body chose to ignore the area and repeated representations in this regard have fallen on deaf ears for years,” he said.
 
 He claimed that though the civic body has been making efforts to make the city free of open defecation, as many as 70% of the population in the area opts for open defecation as there is no proper water supply and most residents have to walk for about one km to get drinking water from the nearby localities.
 
 Most of the areas do not have a separate drainage line. Other residents Raghunath Chandrahas, Admane Bai, Azizabi Shaikh have also alleged that the civic body officials were deliberately turning a blind eye when it came to implementing government’s scheme to make the state free from defecation and to extend financial assistance to build toilets. “Now, we are demanding legal as well as disciplinary action against such officials who do not provide basic amenities despite availability of provisions,” said  , another resident.
 
 The demonstrators have submitted a charter of demands to the civic authorities demanding construction of an elevated water reservoir in the locality to solve the drinking water problem, a separate drainage line and construction of concrete roads. They also demanded the authorities to start a health centre in the area as it has a population of over 25,000 and assistance to women’s self-help groups. They insisted that the facilities meant for slum dwellers be extended to the Misarwadi residents and the authorities should not charge excess amount for water supply through tankers. 
 
