KOLKATA: The bottom of  , also known as  , is littered with plastic, broken glass and concrete debris, experts appointed by the   (NGT), Eastern Zone Bench, found while carrying out an   (EIA) of the premises. Apart from an immediate clean-up of the lake bottom, the committee of experts also wants certain restrictions imposed on the clubs at Rabindra Sarobar. While environment activists have already taken up cudgels against these clubs, the office bearers of some of them denied that they cause any harm to the environment.
 
 “The clubs were never to be turned into social establishments. It has been reported that some of them regularly organise social gatherings that cause disturbance to the biodiversity in the Rabindra Sarobar premises due to high-intensity noise and bright lights. The Kolkata Improvement Trust (KIT) should have a form that should be filled up and submitted by the clubs for permission before organising any such function. Fresh agreements between KIT and the clubs should be drawn out mentioning the purpose of establishment and their commitments to wards functioning as per the ir basic purpose only," the expert committee has recommended.
  
 The report further states: “Bars and open-air eateries in club houses are against the basic purpose of establishing them at Rabindra Sarobar. KIT is thereby advised to look into the matter seriously and urgently. Club authorities should also take care to park the vehicles of members and their guests outside the Rabindra Sarobar premises."
  
 An office-bearer of the Lake Club, that started operating in 1932, denied that such establishments cause any harm to the bio-diversity or environment of the lake. “On the converse, had our establishments not been there, the area would have turned into a den for all kinds of unsavoury characters and this would have actually harmed the environment. We are very careful regarding environmental issues," he said.
  
 “Ours is primarily a sports club that organises major events across the year. Founded in 1858, ours is probably the oldest such club in the east. We are a heritage establishment. All places like ours have bars and eateries where members can relax. This doesn't mean that we don't take care of the enviornment," an office-bearer of the Calcutta Rowing Club said.
  
 A member of the Bengal Rowing Club, established in 1929, said a large number of sporting events like swimming and indoor ones are organised throughout the year.
  
 
 
  
 Rabindra Sarobar faces a steep battle against pollution. All stakeholders, including the clubs at the lake and its custodian KIT, should come forward to make sure the NGT recommendations are followed to the letter and spirit.
 
