MYSURU: City-based Odanadi  , a not-for-profit organization working for the welfare of children and sex workers, is mural painting to expunge traumatic memories of its inmates who are victims of various crimes.

 This follows an inmate’s suggestion that cropped up during an informal discussion. The NGO grabbed the idea of drawing cartoon characters on walls of the   and executed it. 
 
 L Parashuram, an OSS director, said the effort has started yielding results as the inmates feel more cheerful. “We have drawn cartoon characters, animals and birds of the inmates’ choice in their rooms. They are victims of sexual attacks, trafficking and child marriages.”
 
 “The psychological impact is more severe than that of physical violence and the bad memories keep haunting them often killing their hopes. They’re depressed, and suffer anxiety and stress. Such initiatives kindle hope in their lives as they tend to erase traumatic memories. It’s one effort to alleviate their pain and help them to forget their nightmares about the incident.” 
 
 A bunch of visual arts students from the Sri Kalanikethan School of Arts, Vijayanagar, voluntarily helped the NGO in this exercise. They worked for a week to do the  . Says Varun Kumar, chief artist and final-year Bachelor of Visual Arts student, “We were happy to serve the inmates in this unique way and really enjoyed interacting with the children and drawing pictures of their choice. We have painted images of Mickey Mouse, Donald Duck, bears, giraffes, elephants, fish and mermaids according to the children’s wishes.””
 
 His collegemates Rajashekar, Sujith, Sharath and Niranjan were part of the team. College principal Mahadevashetty said, “Creating a conducive atmosphere for children coping with bad memories is essential in healing their minds. Our students have done a good job.”
 
 There are 103 children, including 77 girls, in this rehab home. The inmates are happy about the initiative as the walls of two dormitories, where girls of different ages stay, have been decorated with murals. A rescued teenage trafficked victim said her attitude to life has changed now.
 
 All inmates, except a few, are pursuing different courses from primary to Master’s degrees. Some were reunited with their parents after rehabilitation but most are with them, said Parashuram, who added that similar murals will be done at the rehab home for boys soon. 
 
 
