GURUGRAM: There is some respite in store from the scorching heat, thanks to a   in the region, which is expected to cause sporadic showers.

  department officials told TOI that a western disturbance, currently passing over NCR, is likely to result in mild drizzles at many places across   and   late Tuesday and on Wednesday. Officials predicted both maximum and minimum temperatures will fall, prompting cooler weather conditions.
 
 “This weather system has just reached Gurgaon and the   region, which is why it is suddenly cloudy. The maximum temperature has gone down to 36 degrees Celcius,” said Devendra Pradhan, senior scientist at IMD. “This condition will remain for another two days. Minimum temperature will hover between 21 and 22 degrees Celsius. We expect some duststorms and thunderstorms on Wednesday. Such conditions will continue till April 7. On Wednesday in particular, light showers are expected at isolated places.”
 
 Officials said the change in weather will spell comfort for residents. “For up to four days, the maximum temperature won’t exceed 36 degrees.”
 
 The maximum temperature in Gurgaon recently soared to 39 degrees, leading to sleepless nights for residents. “The rising heat had become very problematic, especially when children have exams going on. My daughter is sometimes forced to study in humid nights during power cuts, which is quite frequent during summers,” said  , a resident of Sushant Lok 1.
 
 On Tuesday, the maximum temperature recorded in Gurgaon was 38 degrees Celsius, while the minimun temperature stood at 22 degrees Celsius. IMD data predicts there will be a drop of four degrees on Wednesday, as showers are expected in the city.
 
 Meanwhile, the city’s pollution levels have also fallen. The concentration of PM2.5 was 105.56 µg/m3 on Tuesday, which was slightly lesser than Monday’s reading of 112.41 µg/m3.   officials told TOI that clear skies, winds and sunlight had brought down pollution levels significantly. “It’s when you have too much moisture in the air that pollution levels exacerbate,” officials said. “And since we are expecting wet weather, the levels are likely to come down further.”
 
