PUNE: Nearly 60% of the candidates who contested the civic polls for   (PMC) have lost their deposits. The list includes candidates from across party lines.

 As many as 641 candidates out of 1,090 forfeited their deposits. The election office of PMC declared the final statistics showing the votes polled per candidates as well as party-wise vote share. As per the PMC officials, each contestant has to pay Rs 5,000 as deposit while filing the nomination. Candidates from the reserved category have to pay Rs 2,500. If a candidate fails to get less than 18th of the total votes cast in the ward, then he or she loses the deposit. The election department is yet to establish how many candidates from the open and reserved categories have forfeited their deposits.
 
 “Though technically loss of deposit does not hamper future prospects of the candidates, it is considered a prestige issue. Political parties or politicians are assessed on the basis of 'loss of deposit'. If a party has large number of candidates who have lost their deposits, it is viewed in poor light,“ a senior official of the PMC election department told TOI.
 
 The wining candidates and those who have polled more votes than the minimum get back their money. The revenue generated from deposits goes to government coffers. Around Rs 25 lakh has been collected from deposits. “The money will be used for carrying out development work. The candidates' performance will not affect their future possibility of contesting elections,“ said Satish Kulkarni, PMC election officer.
 
 As per the data, the majority of candidates who have failed to get minimum votes are independents, followed by Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS). As many as 291 out of 302 independents could not reach the minimum mark, while 86 out of 116 MNS candidates had lost their deposits. The party had fielded 116 candidates.Altogether 69 out of 149 Shiv Sena candidates failed to get back their deposits.
 
 AIMIM, which entered in the PMC for the first, managed to win one seat. It had fielded 21 candidates, out of whom 16 have lost their deposits.
 
  (BJP), which has emerged as the single lar gest party in the PMC, has 5 candidates who failed to secure minimum votes. Other little-known parties recorded 100 % failure, losing all their deposits. They included Bahujan Mukti Party (17), Bharip Bahujan Mahasangh (16), Akhil Bharatiya Samrat Sena (5),   (Secular) (5), Republican Party of India (2) and   (2).
 
