AMRITSAR: Ruling coalition partner BJP finally announced candidates for 17 out of 23 seats of its quota from alliance kitty. On Thursday, the party gave tickets to five sitting MLAs but kept mum on about the fate of its all four ministers in the   and two other sitting MLAs.

 BJP has 12 MLAs in the state, including   who had resigned in recent past to join the Congress. The saffron party’s ministers who are still awaiting tickets include:  ,  ,  , who MLAs from Jalandhar West, Anandpur Sahib, Fazilka and Amritsar North respectively.
 
 Seats of two BJP MLAs Manoranjan Kalia and Som Parkash from Jalandhar Central and Phagwara have also not been confirmed. Som was also chief parliamentary secretary.
 
 BJP has re-nominated sitting MLAs Seema Kumar from Bhoa in Pathankot, Sukhjit Kaur Shahi from Dasuya in Hoshiarpur, K D Bhandari from Jalandhar North, Ashwani Kumar Sharma from Pathankot and Dinesh Singh Babu from Sujanpur in Pathankot.
 
 In Amritsar, BJP has picked its district (urban) president Rajesh Honey to contest from Amritsar East constituency, which is represented by outgoing MLA Sidhu.
 
 Party leaders were of view that her developmental works would benefit Honey. The Congress is yet to announce its candidate from one of high stake constituencies of Punjab but it’s likely go be cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu. 
 
 While in Amrisar West, the party has picked Rakesh Gill who had lost the 2012 assembly elections to Raj Kumar Verka of the Congress.
 
 Similarly BJP secretary Tarun Chugh will take on sitting MLA from Amritsar Central O P Soni, also of the Congress. Chugh had lost seat to Soni in 2012 assembly elections.
 
 List of candidates
 
 Arun Narang: Abohar
 
 Tarun Chugh: Amritsar Central
 
 Rajesh Honey: Amritsar East
 
 Rakesh Gill: Amritsar West
 
 Seema Kumar: Bhoa, Pathankot
 
 Sukhjit Kaur Shahi: Dasuya, Hoshiarpur
 
 B D Dhuppa: Dinanagar, Gurdaspur
 
 Sukhpal Singh Nannu: Ferozepur
 
 Tikshan Sood: Hoshiarpur
 
 K D Bhandari: Jalandhar North
 
 Gurdev Sharma: Ludhiana Central
 
 Parveen Bansal: Ludhiana North
 
 Kamal Chetley: Ludhiana West
 
 Arunesh Shakhar: Mukerian, Hoshiarpur
 
 Ashwani Kumar Sharma: Pathankot
 
 Harjit Singh Garewal: Rajpura, Patiala
 
 Dinesh Singh Babu: Sujanpur, Pathankot
 
 
