A 22-year-old   of   (SPPU) received a shock on Tuesday when she got a message from an account that had her  . It even had several people she knew as  . The message she received asked her to send some   of herself. Whoever sent the message also warned her that they had already had several such photos of her, which would go viral if she did not comply with their demands.

 Much before this message popped up in the complainant’s inbox, several of her friends had asked her why she had two Facebook accounts. That was then she realised that someone had created a fake account using her name and pictures. At the time, she didn’t give it much thought, but simply asked her friends to not accept any friend requests sent from that account and to unfriend immediately if the request had already been accepted.
 
 But then, when she got the message in her inbox, she realised that the issue was serious.
 
 “The complainant received a message on Fecabook Messenger, asking her to send some semi-nude pictures of herself. When she refused to do so and demanded to know who was communicating from the other end, the accused warned her that they already had several telling photos of her and would spread them across the Internet unless she gave in to their demands,” said Udaysing Shingade, police inspector at Chaturshurungi police station and the investigating officer in the case. The student registered an FIR on Wednesday at 12.30 am, just a few hours after she received the message from the fake account at 9 pm.
 
 “We will trace the IP address and get to the culprits at the earliest. For now, both the Facebook accounts have been deleted. In fact, we assume that as soon as the girl deleted her account, the other account was also erased. Cases like these just prove that while accessing social networking sites, one must be very careful about what they share or talk about,” Shingade added.
 
 The accused, who are still unidentified, have been charged under Section 507 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for criminal intimidation by anonymous communication. In addition to this, sections 66 (C) and 37 of the Information Technology Act have also been applied.
 
 
 ¦ Both the accounts have been deleted as of now. Cases like these just prove that while accessing social networking sites, one must be very careful about what they share or talk about
 
 — Udaysing Shingade, PI, Chaturshrungi police station
 
