AMRAVATI: In an aggressive attempt to make use of natural resources on all fronts to put the state on global tourist map, the state government is seriously contemplating to develop a   in the thick  . 

 The state government is of the view that Nallamala, one of the favourite resting spot of tigers, could become hottest wildlife spot if spruced up with best infrastructure to attract tourists. Although, AP has two zoological parks one each at Visakhapatnam and Tirupati, both have failed to carve a niche in luring the wildlife enthusiasts. The state government is planning to develop a zoo near Pedda Dornala mandal of Prakasam district which is on the fringes of Nallamala forest.
 
 Nallamala forest spread over Prakasam, Kurnool, Guntur in AP and Mahabubnagar and Nalgonda districts of Telangana was a fortress of Maoists for over a decade. The police and forest officials were made to flee from the forest region when Maoists virtually ruled the region. The Nallamala was Maoists cadres one of the safe heavens till they came out of the woods for peace talks with the then YSR government in 2004. Failure of the peace talks began the end of Maoists rule in Nallamala forest as they lost almost all the top leaders in encounters. Series of encounters prompted the Maoists to completely vacate the forests and shift their base to AOB and Chhattisgarh. 
 
 However, the nallamala forest are villages thickly populated with tribals have not seen visible development even after the situation completely eased in the region. “We have planned several big-ticket projects in the region. We will bring a zoological park to Pedda Dornala,” said forests and environment minister Bojjala Gopalakrishna Reddy. All the 72 tribal chenchu gudems would be linked with concrete roads in the initial phase in addition to widening the major Nagarjunasagar-Kurnool highway, said Reddy.
 
 He explained that a percolation tank was developed near Chennupalli forest to help wild animals quench their thirst. The tank was built with a cost of Rs.18 crore.
  
 At present   is located between Kurnool and Prakasam districts. This is about 30-km from Nandyal and 50 km from Cumbum. A perennial river by name 'Gundlakamma', crosses through the sanctuary. The sanctuary presents a varied habitat for wildlife including Tiger, Panther, sloth bear, wild dog, Hyena, Jungle cat, Langur, Bonnet monkey, Pangolin, Sambar, Nilgai, Chowsinga, Chinkara, Mouse deer, Monitor lizard, Python and Marsh crocodile. However, there are very no basic facilities for the tourists to make a visit into deep forest. “We can make Nallamala a great visitor point even while protecting the habitats of wildlife by creating certain facilities to the visitors. Bringing a zoo will also improve the state’s image,” said a senior forest official. He observed that they have not properly utilized the strength of wild forests to tap tourists. 
 
 According to wildlife activist, there are beautiful number of waterfalls in deep Nallamala forest which could make anyone breathless if government provides guided tours.
 
