LONDON:   has been busy perfecting flawless in the first week of  . He had a whopping 61 winners and only seven unforced errors in his third-round victory over German  , who competed well in the late-evening clash. The 35-year-old seemed to have more trouble with a head cold than his opponents in the Church Road Slam, where he's going for a record eighth title.

 Federer is in good company. The fab four -  , Novak Djokovic and defending champion   - along with the Swiss are looking menacing, having only dropped a set between them. They're back in the second week of Wimbledon for the first time since 2011.
 
 "I'm not that surprised, but it's great," Federer, who goes up against the 13th seed   or 'Baby Fed' in the fourth round on Monday, said of the elite 30-plus brigade. "I thought that everybody this week was going to find their form, especially Andy and Novak. I hoped I was going to be there. Whereas with Rafa's confidence, I thought he was also going to be there."
 
 The 26-year-old Dimitrov, who has never beaten Federer in their five meetings, has often been compared to the 18-time major winner for his sparkling style of play. "He's a good shot-maker. One-handed backhand always brings a bit of a different feel to the match because of the slice, coming over. Which shot is he going to choose? Every time I have played him he has become better. I expect the same on Monday," Federer said.
 
 The serve will play a crucial part in the last-sixteen clash against Dimitrov, who'll use his muscle to dominate a player who switches effortlessly between artist and athlete. And back again. "Accuracy is almost as important as pace once you get over 120 (mph)," Federer said. "What comes with a good serve is concentration, focus."
 
 Federer, whose court coverage has been electric, not just at Wimbledon, but all year, said it was all about positioning. "I think those few meters behind and in front of the baseline are crucial. I feel like with the eye and with the quickness of the reaction of the body, understanding which balls you can attack is really important. I did that very well when I was younger. I was able to build on that by working on my fitness. My eyes help me out in that regard. I think that explosiveness is crucial for me to be successful."
 
 Federer said beside the cushion of the natural surface like grass, he was fitter than in Australia where he swept to the title in stunning fashion, claiming his 18th major in fairytale style. "I've gotten used to more matches. I didn't have five-setters," Federer said of his run so far. "Hard courts are usually tougher on the body. So I feel better here even with the (head) cold."
 
 The Swiss, who was in a light mood in his post-match conference, following his third round win, was told, 'for a very very old man, you're moving beautifully'.
 
 "Thank you," the 35-year-old, father of four, appreciated. "It's a nice press conference today." 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 Ana Konjuh (Croatia) v 10-Venus Williams (U.S.) 1-Andy Murray (Britain) v Benoit Paire (France) 13-Grigor Dimitrov (Bulgaria) v 3-Roger Federer (Switzerland).
 
 
 
 6-Johanna Konta (Britain) v 21-Caroline Garcia (France) 4-Rafael Nadal (Spain) v 16-Gilles Muller (Luxembourg) Adrian Mannarino (France) v 2-Novak Djokovic (Serbia)
 
 
 
 1-Angelique Kerber (Germany) v 14-Garbine Muguruza (Spain)   (Belarus) v 2-Simona Halep (Romania) 6-Milos Raonic (Canada) v 10-Alexander Zverev (Germany) Men's doubles third round Marcus Daniell (New Zealand)Marcelo Demoliner (Brazil) v Ken Skupski (Britain)Neal Skupski (Britain)
 
 
