PANAJI: Fatima, a senior citizen from Old Goa, failed miserably in her second attempt to get her name on her  .

 She stood in a long queue the last time and managed to get her age, but not her name rectified. So she tried again this time, submitting all her documents including birth certificate, but it was not to be. She got her ‘corrected’   last week with her name almost corrected but not quite. Instead her husband was rechristened with her maiden surname, on her card. “I don’t feel like voting,” she said, clearly fed up.
 
 In another case in Porvorim, a voter received her EPIC card after corrections, only to find that her name was successfully corrected, but she didn’t resemble the photo on the card. The photograph was, in fact, that of her sister who lives in Mumbai.
 
 In a third case in Margao, the family received their election card with their address corrected as requested, but erroneous date of birth and husband’s name.
 
 Milind from   tried unsuccessfully to get the address on his election card corrected in the past, but to no avail. He received a   instead with a coloured photograph of himself, but with no change made to his address. “The first time there was so much of running around involved and after all of that, they didn’t even get my address corrected. It’s pointless. I’m not ‘bekaar’ (idle) and don’t have time to waste to do the entire process again,” he said.
 
 A voter from Bardez, too, says he has voted on the same election card for the past two elections and can’t be bothered to go through the hassle of getting his name corrected.
 
 Additional chief electoral officer Narayan Navti said corrections can be made to the cards but the electorate will receive these only after the February 4 election.
 
 “Clerical errors or photographic errors in images will be overlooked while voting, if all other details of the voter match. This is only to protect your constitutional right to vote. We don’t want a single person to be left out,” he told TOI. 
 
 Voter’s slips this time will be coloured with a photograph of the voter and details of polling station on its reverse. They will be distributed to the electorate at least six days before the election, he added.
 
