BENGALURU: If you own a structure that violates building norms and think you can get away by not applying under  , think again. Foreseeing poor response to the proposed  , the state government will make it mandatory to   and unauthorized structures in urban areas.

 Those who fail to apply and regularize their illegal structures by paying the stipulated penalty will face disconnection of water and electricity services and, finally, demolition.
 
 BBMP commissioner N Manjunath Prasad said the civic body will undertake a survey of all buildings, irrespective of whether they apply for the regularization scheme or not, before initiating action. As per the   and Country Planning (Regulation of Unauthorized Development or Construction) Rules, action can be taken under Section 76FF of the Karnataka Town and Country Planning Act, 1961. This section empowers urban local bodies, among others, to demolish such structures.
 
 The government will incorporate the mandatory clause in the rules to be notified, to ensure no one gets away scot-free and the civic body earns a target revenue of Rs 5,000 crore.
 
 Three categories of unauthorized constructions will attract action -unauthorized buildings for which no application for regularization is received within the time limit, unauthorized buildings which are not eligible to be regularized under the scheme as violations are beyond the fixed limit, and unauthorized buildings for which the regularization fee has not been paid within the stipulated time limit. Justifying the need for such a clause, a senior of ficial at the state urban development department said the Akrama-Sakrama scheme will pave the way for the regularization of over 10 lakh unauthorized buildings raised in violation of construction norms in Bengaluru alone, but it doesn't guarantee that all will respond. “We expect a response from just about 30%, so the government has decided to include the clause to ensure that owners of all unauthorized structures apply for regularization of the building,“ he added.
 
 The application for regularization has to be made within four months from the date of commencement of the notification, tentatively April, considering the government is due to issue it soon.
 
