UDAIPUR: Some 2,000 villagers, including 500 women and children, youth and the elderly, offered voluntary arrest for the ‘jail bharo andolan’, launched in   town of Vallabhnagar block in Udaipur district, on Saturday.

 People gathered outside the Kanore police station and raised slogans demanding ‘tehsil’ status for the town.
 
 Though the administration and the police had made massive arrangements, the   and ‘andolan’ went peacefully. People stood up one after the other and were arrested and taken to Sarangpura, a village one kilometre away from Kanore, in three police buses.
 
 “If the government does not review its decision and grant tehsil status to Kanore, the movement will take a violent turn. The entire nagar palika board will tender their resignations,” warned Anil Sharma, chairman, Kanore Nagar Palika.
 
 The residents are irked following a recent decision by the state government to grant tehsil status to Bhinder, an adjoining town which the protesters claim should not have become one prior to Kanore. The demand of tehsil status for Kanore is three decades old, protesters claimed.
 
 A day ago, residents had held a road rally in Udaipur city which saw a record participation of 1,200 people from the area.
 
 The residents have been staging dharnas and protests for eight days continuously after the government’s decision to grant tehsil status to Bhinder town.
 
 “If any town deserves to be a tehsil first, it is Kanore because it was one during the times of Mewar state when Sarada was a district. Kanore had its own seal and stamps. However, the status was reduced after integration,” informed  , the custodian of Kanore Tehsil Banao Sangarsh Samiti. Residents claimed they have been receiving step-motherly treatment for years as representatives had always been from Bhinder. So, Kanore was always ignored despite the area being a nayab tehsil under which there are 14 panchayats covering 80 villages.
 
 The population of the area is estimated to be around 15,000. However, for even small matters, people have to go to Bhinder causing inconvenience to people.
 
 “The nagar palika office has 11 posts with 10 lying vacant. If one wants a small correction in a electricity bill, he or she has to go to Bhinder which is 15km away. Road connectivity is not up to the mark and there are no government colleges here. We also badly need a 100-bed hospital,” said  , former deputy chairman of Kanore Nagar Palika.
 
 People irrespective of party politics, community and religion have come together in support of the demand. A dharna has been going on at the main market for the past eight days. Shopkeepers have consented to keep the main bazaar closed between 12 to 2pm daily as a symbol of protest. They have even passed a resolution not to permit any minister to hold a meeting or public program until their demand is fulfilled.
 
 Members of the 15-member Kanore Nagar Palika (BJP 8,   5, Congress 2) are in consensus to tender a   resignation next week.
 
