PUNE: The   (PCB) authorities have eliminated any provision for fines for violators of   like vehicle entry tax or a fee after admitting that the board has received several complaints of harassment and “extortion” about its vehicle entry  . 

 The PCB does not collect the vehicle entry tax imposed on most commercial vehicles directly. It is outsourced to an agency for a fixed period through a tendering process. The tax is scheduled to be phased out this year with the goods and services tax (GST) taking effect from July.
 
 These entry taxes are supposed to be paid by motorists at toll booths located at various points of entry to the Cantonment, which are staffed by attendants of the agency. According to the terms by which the PCB awarded the contract, the agency can levy a fine from anyone who tries to avoid paying the tax.
 
 Officials told a general board meeting on Wednesday that besides a complaint from a serving military officer about misbehaviour and “extortion” on the part of the attendants at these polling booths, they have received reports of several instances of such transgressions.
 
 “The serving military officer wrote to us saying that the attendants just ahead of the booth intimidated his car driver using motorcycles and threats, after he missed a toll booth notification and drove past it. He further wrote that the attendants extorted a “fine” out of him, and harassed him further. So we issued a show-cause notice to the contractors, who replied saying that they had put up cautionary boards at regular intervals before the collection booth. Many complaints have come to us via phone and letters to the board,” CEO of the board DN Yadav said.
 
 The board president, also a serving military officer, said that in his investigations, he found that the agents are more interested in collecting fines than the entry tax.
 
 “I have seen a few booths during my inspections. I found them poorly staffed with more people on motorbikes to catch people who violate the payment than there are to collect the tax. It clearly shows that they are more interested in collecting the fines as that will bring in more money,” Brig AK Tyagi, president of the board, said.
 
 Board officials said they will do away with any fine in any future award of similar contracts but no changes can be made in the current vehicle entry tax collection contract. They added that the contractor has been put on notice, and may be disqualified.
 
 “We have warned the contractor because of the numerous allegations of misbehaviour, harassment and extortion on their part. If they do not mend their ways over the next month, their contract is liable to be terminated,” a PCB’s revenue department official said.
 
