NEW DELHI: Stepping up its preparations for the upcoming municipal polls,   is giving finishing touches to its candidate selection criteria. While performance assessment will decide the fate of sitting councillors, the party is also likely to introduce an   for candidates to put in place a younger team. 

 Sources said it was likely that candidates above 60 years of age would not be considered. The party has received applications from over 10,000 aspirants for the 272 wards and the list has already been pruned to 4,000. The real challenge now lies in getting the right mix of 272, of which 50% have to be women.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Delhi Congress chief Ajay Maken said the party was seriously considering the idea of enforcing an age limit. “Besides winnability, an age limit for candidates is under consideration. We want to give space to younger candidates and field fresh faces,” Maken said. 
 
 However, he was quick to add that the performance of sitting councillors would not be ignored. “We are getting a survey done to assess the performance and winnability of our sitting councillors. They will get a fair chance but it is not necessary that all of them will be repeated,” he said.
 
 Applicants who lost in the last two municipal polls may not be considered.
 
 On Wednesday, the   formed a team of observers — drawing upon its resources from among ex-MPs and MLAs from different states like Rajasthan, Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu — to interact with workers and party functionaries across 14 districts. The feedback of these observers will play an important role in deciding the candidates. 
 
 Congress has also set up a call centre for obtaining feedback on aspirants from party workers. The information gained via this exercise is being added to the profile of applicants to understand their strengths and weaknesses.
 
 Maken said the party would give adequate representation to those working with NGOs in the social sector as also RWA representatives. Learning from its defeats in the 2013 and 2015 assembly polls, Congress is clear that a turnaround can be scripted only by reinvigorating the grassroot workers. The win in the recently concluded assembly elections in Punjab has given a boost to the morale of party workers, Maken claimed.
 
 
