BENGALURU: At the 14th   or Non-Resident Indian (NRI) Day on Saturday at Bengaluru International Exhibition Centre, international visitors, who have come to the city to attend the meet, expressed their fear of being in a city which has been in the news after women were molested on New Year’s Eve on Brigade Road.

 Vinodhini Munikrishnayya (26), an optometrist from Malaysia admitted that she was “scared” to venture out alone. Munikrishnayya, who studied in Chennai in 2013 and 2014, and used to to look forward to holidays in Bengaluru says, “When I reached here, we were worried. My family too has been warning me to be careful. I return to the hotel before 7pm,” she says.
 
 This is in contrast to her previous visits to the city, when she says, she used to “hang out” until 11 pm. “I wouldn’t think of doing that now,” she says.
 
 Her friends from Fiji and Myanmar share the same sentiments. “Each of us has visited different countries-- Indonesia, Thailand, the United Kingdom and the   — but it’s only here that we worry to this extent,” says Prasernna Kamalanathan (24), a medical student from Malaysia.
 
 Mehnaz Ashab from Fiji (28), adds: “Something like this would have never happened in our country. Here the government and police to give adequate protection and security,” she says.
 
 As precautionary measures, these young visitors are taking along boys in their group. “We don’t feel safe otherwise,” Mahima from Myanmar says.
 
 Agrees Marvin Daniel D’souza (18), who has recently moved from Dubai to pursue his undergrad. “They have every right to be worried. My friends are ensuring they get back by 7 pm.” he says.
 
 Ever since the Nirbhaya incident, Rachel Kandathil (18), who currently lives in Canada, has been wary of walking on the streets anywhere in India. While in Varanasi, her hometown, where she covers her face, in Bengaluru this time, she’s either with her parents or brother.
 
 “The mentality here has to change. Here, I wouldn’t think of wearing shorts or deep neck top. I only wear jeans and a tee and if I do wear something with a deep neck, I cover myself with a dupatta,” she says.
 
 Post 5:30 pm, Kandathil is indoors knowing that it’s not safe anywhere. “While I need to inform my parents about my whereabouts in India, they don’t worry about me when I’m there,” she says.
 
 Police can easily restore faith. Accept reality, act forcefully
 
 Bengaluru is looking to build a brand of IT that’s unparalleled in the world. But like any city in the country, it’s a work in progress. If we want to get the ‘pravasis’ interested, we have to build an environment conducive to that dream. Our roads are perpetually potholed, putrefying garbage lies everywhere, and now women’s safety has become a concern.
 
 Every society, every city has its share of ‘bad apples’ – what differentiates one from another (when it comes to safety) is how well these elements are contained. Turning a blind eye to molestations or brushing them off with excuses does not make a city safe. Ignorance can only create the illusion of safety. 
 
 This is why Mirror has been doggedly campaigning for women’s safety since the molestations of New Year’s Eve. This is why despite resistance from the police, the government and various other places, we have been reaching out to women and eye-witnesses who can tell their own stories.
 
 The onus of women’s safety can’t be on women alone. The law enforcement has to inspire confidence, the government has to believe in their freedom of expression, the society has to treat them as equals – only then does safety have any meaning.
 
 Expecting every woman to stay indoors after dark, dressing up for camouflage or staying sober during parties is not the sign of a healthy society – it’s the sign of one that has lost faith in its men.
 
 How successful Bengaluru becomes in catching and holding global interest will depend on whether the city is able to create an environment that does not leave the onus of safety on individuals alone.
 
 Potholes kill, but you can’t stop using the roads. Garbage stinks, but you can’t keep changing houses. Women get molested, but they can’t stop living. Let’s fix this now.
 
 
