It's a Sunday morning, and geologist Kumaran Mahalingam is busy sending out coded messages of a 'secret' lake in Chengalpet that will become the day's venue for a session of stand-up paddle boarding (SUP). The messages either name the lake by its latitude and longitudinal location or refer to it by a pseudonym like ' '.

 “The waters are still, the setting is undisturbed and we want to keep it that way , that's why the location is kept quiet,“ says the 36-year-old who works out of Gurgaon but flies into Chennai almost every other week to teach and practise his sport. 'Ponniyin Selvan' incidentally goes by the official name of Lake Srikundram and 'Lat 1240' is really Lake Periyaputheri, but mum's the word, says Mahal ingam with regard to his other paddle hidey-holes.
 
 Meanwhile, every Tuesday and Thursday for the past year, in the remote corners of Red Hills, runner Peter Van Geit and his team at the Chennai Trekkers Club, wake up hours before the crack of dawn to string ropes across the 150 m long quarry lake in Ottiambakkam so their swelling tribe of triathloners can get their swimming practice underway. “Once you swim in these waters, you will never want to go back to the chlorinated waters of an artificial swimming pool,“ insists the 44-year-old marathoner. He confesses he hasn't renewed his pool membership in the five years since he chanced upon the quarry on one of his trail runs. Clearly invigorated by his twice-weekly freshwater swim, Van Geit now conducts recces of quarry waters in other parts of the city. “We've found two more that seem usable, one in Mambakkam and another near  ,“ he says.
 
 Triathlons in the deep waters of bluestone quarries, paddleboarding in the lakes of south Chennai, snorkelling in the brackish backwaters of Muttukadu, swimming amid the waves in the  ... in the last couple of years, Chennaiites have begun lapping up and lapping it up -in the city's natural water bodies.
 
 “There are so many natural lakes that are just a 20-minute drive from Velachery,“ says Mahalingam, who started mapping the city lakes in 2014, and has paddleboarded in 13 of them so far, having once even manoeuvred his way from Muttukadu to Sholinganallur through the backwaters. He was stopped twice along his journey , not by police but by pollution -once at Pallikaranai when the water turned to sewage, and again near his destination, when he was caught in a dense mat of water hyacinth.“It's possible to paddle up to Thoraipakkam,“ says Mahalingam, who just wrapped up a three-month SUP marathon along the route of the Ganges.
 
 “If people begin using waterbodies they think of ways to keep it clean and to sustain it. So, using natural waterbodies for sports is a great way to conserve it as well,“ says Mahalingam, who conducted an SUP yoga session last week for the residents of Perungudi at a 'lake festival' organised by the voluntary group Perungudi Lake Area and Neighbourhood Environmental Transformation Association. He adds that since paddleboarding is a non-motorised sport, permission is sought from the panchayat to use the lakes. “We don't like to publicise the location because we don't want the lake to be misused. You will find garbage strewn around the more popular lakes,“ he says. The floods of 2015, says 'ocean advocate' Showkath Jamal, helped the city's water enthusiasts rediscover the backwaters of Muttukadu. At Showkath's school,  , they've started snorkelling classes in the 5ft deep backwaters besides their ocean swimming classes at Kovalam.
 
 “During high tide the groynes in Muttukadu create pools of sea water and that has revived marine life here. We began kayaking and snorkelling sessions six months ago,“ says Showkath who believes that swimming in the sea is easier than in a swimming pool once you have learned the basics of ocean currents and tides.
 
 For the past year, yoga trainer Shakkthi Narendran has been taking her 12-year-old daughter Sarah to the Bay of Life surf school for ocean swimming classes, and a spot of snorkelling too.“Learning in the ocean isn't just about picking up swimming skills but life skills as well. Most people are intimidated by natural waterbodies and so don't equip themselves or their children with knowledge of the sea,“ says Shakkthi, who swims in the ocean too. “Sarah is growing up in a coastal city. We want her to discover the waters around her rather than fear them."
 
