THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: After a report that unearthed several irregularities in purchase of a dredger by vigilance director   during his tenure as ports director, the finance department has found irregularities in awarding construction contracts of maritime institutes in  . 

 In a report prepared by the finance inspection wing with respect to the construction of the maritime institutes, says that Jacob Thomas, along with mechanical marine engineer of the ports department A Retnakumar, forged documents to mislead the government and hand over the construction contract for the Neendakara   to a private company,  .
 
 The copy of the report, accessed by TOI, says that when the tender evaluation committee asked for a re-tender since there was only one bidder, the ports director misled the government by informing that the work has been re-tendered and the tender of M/s South Indian Constructions has been accepted. "Verification showed that no re-tendering took place, instead the director has instructed to permit the participants of pre-bid meeting and those who quoted for tender for the construction work at Maritime Institute, Kodungallur. As per his direction, the mechanical marine engineer has forged the documents so as to disguise it as a re-tender. All proceedings in connection with the tender was tailor-made for selecting M/s South Indian Constructions," the report said.
 
 The report further says that Jacob Thomas also furnished an exorbitant amount as estimate for the construction of the institute without proper examination by any competent authority. This resulted in the approval of tender at a high rate. The tender that was sanctioned for Rs 36.63 crore against the advice of the harbour engineering department, which is the competent authority to take up the civil works of the ports department, resulted in a loss of Rs 7.86 crore to the state exchequer, the report said.
 
 The report has recommended that stringent disciplinary action be taken and a major penalty be imposed on Jacob Thomas and A Retnakumar for the proven irregularities and dereliction of duty in the construction of Maritime Institute, Neendakara. 
 
