BENGALURU: Nearly five years after tech-savvy   made computer literacy test mandatory to facilitate paperless governance, the government employees have managed to score only ‘just pass’ marks. About 35% of the total 3.5 lakh employees have managed to clear the basic online  , officials said. 

 In 2012, Karnataka government had made knowledge of using computers mandatory for Group ‘A’ to ‘C’ employees below the age of 50 to be eligible for promotions and increments. Yet, about 1.25 lakh employees cleared the test; about 67,168 of them during 2016-17.
 
 “Initially, there was defiance among employees but after the government withheld promotions and increments, they are showing interest in taking the exams. Still, 75% of government employees do not have adequate computer skills and face difficulty in navigating the internet or sending emails on their own. Some people don’t like to work with computers, while others lack adequate skills to work,” said an official at the state e-governance department. 
 
 As per the   (Computer Literacy Test) Rules, 2012, the 90-minute test for 100 marks is conducted online by Keonics in association with the Centre for e-Governance. The employees who fail to clear the computer exam in three years are denied promotion and those who do not qualify even in the fourth year not given the annual increment.
 
 The government has, however, exempted tests for group ‘D’ employees, primary school teachers, police constables, nurses, forest watchers, excise guards, health assistants, and drivers. Serving employees above 50 years have also been exempted from the mandatory computer learning on age considerations.
 
 A senior official in the DPAR said mostly those who are aged between 40 and 50 are hesitant to learn computer skills. “ Many older workers prefer meeting face to face and talking about issues that cause friction with younger hiring officers and managers who opt for e-mail and messages. It also contributes to a perception that older job-seekers are slow and unable to handle technology,” he added.
 
 “To ensure everyone is covered at the earliest, we have opened 26 centres across the state, including two in Bengaluru to facilitate the employees to take up the test either at these centres or online. With this, we are hoping to cover the entire 3.5 lakh employees by this year,”  , assistant manager at Karnataka State Electronics Development Corporation Limited (Keonics). 
 
 “e-office or paperless governance is the future. When nursery children can operate smartphones and computers with ease, I can’t understand why the government employees struggle to become computer literate. It’s high time they took the test seriously and facilitate digital governance in every department,” said IT & BT minister Priyank Kharge.
 
