PATNA: The   has described the Bihar government’s move to form a human chain on January 21 against alcoholism and other addictions as a “publicity exercise”.
 
  A division bench comprising acting Chief Justice Hemant Gupta and Justice Sudhir Singh made the observations on Thursday while hearing a PIL against the government’s move to ban traffic movement on highways and involve schoolchildren for the success of the event. It also summoned the chief secretary and DGP to the court on Friday when it will hear the petition again.
  
  According to advocate Amit Srivastava, who is assisting the court dispose of the PIL filed by NGO  , the judges took note of the media ads through which the DGP announced that emergency services and government and media vehicles would be exempted from the five-hour traffic restrictions on the day. “Since when has the media become an emergency service? This shows the event is a publicity exercise,” the lawyer courted a judge as having observed.
  
  The court also took cognizance of reports that district education officers were threatening schoolchildren with cancellation of their enrolment if they skipped the human chain. The court asked the chief secretary to explain on Friday whether or not the participation in the event was voluntary, as was being claimed by the government.
  
  The division bench had on Wednesday asked the government to submit its reply to the PIL on Thursday. As the government submitted a counter affidavit on Thursday, the judges said they appreciated the idea of human chain but they had reservations against involvement of children in the exercise.
  
  Principal additional advocate general Lalit Kishore told the court the human chain, which was initially aimed at spreading awareness against alcoholism, was meant to be an initiative against all intoxicants, including cigarettes. Some schoolchildren are also smokers, he added.
  
  Asking the government counsel if smoking among schoolchildren had become so serious a menace that it required them to stand on the roads for hours, the court asked him not to make generalised statements and present data on Friday to support his claim.
  
  Justice Singh also suggested the government should include lessons on ill-effects of smoking in the curriculum instead of making them stand on roads.
