NEW DELHI: Showing no signs of complacency after the emphatic victory in the recent assembly polls, the ruling   has persisted with its bid to consolidate its support base among OBCs, whose tilt in favour of the   helped it rout opponents in politically crucial Uttar Pradesh.

 Even as opposition parties, including the  , have questioned the Centre’s bid to accord constitutional status to a refurbished   commission, the Centre is committed to carry on with the move and get it cleared by the legislature. 
 
 “It was a long pending demand of political parties and also of social organisations. However, heartburn among opposition parties is understandable as they have realised about another opportunity missed by them,” Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Thawar Chand Gehlot told TOI on Friday.
 
 He said reservation to the OBCs will remain intact and it will further strengthen the community with more powers to the new commission with Constitutional authority. “There is no question of withdrawing the reservation,” he said. Gehlot also clarified that the government move should not be seen in the light of demands of OBC status by certain sections. “These are separate issues and should not be linked,” he said. 
 
 Gehlot said the proposed body will have rights equivalent to the SC/ST Commission with powers to take up complaints. “Besides, recommendation by the state to make further inclusion of a caste in the OBC category will have to be cleared by Parliament at the recommendation of the commission,” Gehlot said.
 
 The proposed  , to be named National Commission for Socially and Educationally Backward Classes, will be created through a Constitutional amendment. It will replace the National Commission for Backward Classes (NCBC) and will have the power of “grievance redressal“ of backwards as exercised by the panels for SCs and STs.
 
 However, Samajwadi Party leader Ram Gopal Yadav on Friday questioned the government’s intent suggesting that the move was to end quota to the OBCs. “The new body is being introduced at the behest of RSS to end quota for the OBC people,” said Yadav, who had raised the issue in the Rajya Sabha. SP leader suggested that instead of a new body, the existing one should have been empowered through requisite legislation.
 
 The Centre has moved the proposal at a time when several dominant caste groups are seeking OBC status. While the Jat community is agitating in Haryana and parts of Uttar Pradesh, Patidars are equally agitated in Gujarat, where assembly polls are due by end of the year. 
 
 Ramifications of the new Commission will be known later but BJP anticipates further consolidation among the OBC voters. “The Centre’s decision to accord Constitutional status to NSEBC on the occasion of Ram Manohar Lohia’s birth anniversary is a welcome decision,” tweeted BJP president  . He said, “The commission will be more powerful and effective. The move, reflecting the Modi government slogan of sabka saath, sabka vikas, will empower the socially and economically backward classes.”
 
 
