BENGALURU: Police said they have credible evidence in the case of the alleged molestation of a 27-year-old BPO employee in a city pub on January 13.

 Police were preparing on Thursday to produce the two men -- Yemeni national   alias Ayub, and Ricky alias Thimmanna Muthappa -- before a court and seek their police custody. 
 
 Sources privy to the probe said the original complaint by the woman didn’t mention sexual assault, but police invoked IPC Section 354 (outraging modesty) after seeing the CCTV footage. The plaint also did not name the two accused.
 
 Though the woman doesn’t remember what happened after her drink was spiked, CCTV footage at the pub has given teeth to the police case. “The CCTV footage provides proof of the men molesting and dragging her, and this is good evidence to take the case forward. We are studying the CCTV footage and looking for more evidence to make the case stronger,” said a senior police officer.
 
 The source said investigations were hampered by the fact that the woman was unconscious after she was drugged and carried out of the pub. 
 
 Senior officers said there is no option for withdrawing the complaint. The investigation will continue and based on the results, either a chargesheet or a B report will be filed, cops added. 
 
 On the fateful night, the woman was to go to the pub along with a friend. But the friend didn’t turn up because he was short on cash and she decided to go on her own. She met the two acquaintances at the pub.
 
 According to her complaint, she blacked out after the first drink and when she woke up the next day, she was told that she had been dropped at her PG in   by two men.
 
 However, the complainant said she was in pain when she woke up and had several bruises on her body. She was told by a woman that she was dragged by the two men who had dropped her at the PG. Taking the details of the complaint as circumstantial evidence, a case of sexual harassment was registered.
 
 
 
 
 I am not withdrawing my complaint. At one point, they had taken some of my friends (not the arrested ones) into custody and I said I will withdraw my complaint if my friends are harassed. However, since then, I have been cooperating with police. I believe the police probe is on the right track.
 
