AURANGABAD: A day after registering the highest ever temperature in March, Aurangabad continues to witness gradual rise in the mercury level.

 The city recorded a maximum temperature of 41.4 degrees celsius and minimum of 24 degrees celsius on Wednesday. 
 
 According to the   (IMD), the city witnessed a maximum temperature of 40.8 degrees celsius on Tuesday, which was the highest ever mercury level in the city in the month of March. The previous highest temperature for Aurangabad was recorded at 40.6 degrees celsius on March 23, 2004.
 
 The maximum and minimum temperatures were above normal by around 5 degrees celsius and 4 degrees celsius respectively, the IMD officials said.
 
 The IMD has predicted a fractional rise in the temperature till the end of March, followed by a marginal decline early next month.
 
 “The current heat-wave conditions have been attributed to the absence of any significant weather system,” it was said.
 
 “With the rise in mercury level, the sale of sugarcane and lemon juice has picked up in the city as they are considered to keep the body cool during summer. People have been preferring sugarcane juice over bottled soft drinks as it is does not contain any added preservatives and chemicals. The record-breaking heat will help in boosting our business,” said  , who runs a road side shop of sugarcane juice in Harsul. 
 
 Amidst rising heat, the state-level association of school principals has submitted a memorandum to state education minister   demanding change in SSC and HSC examinations in future.
 
 Prashant Redij , association leader, said board examinations should get over before March 20 in the future. 
 
 “Considering the rising heat this year, it is strongly advised that board examinations conclude by March 20. The heat becomes unbearable by end of March and then onwards and it is a challenging task for students to write papers amidst scorching heat,” he said.
 
 Redij said several examination centres lack ceiling fans and humid weather conditions can affect students’ performance. 
 
 The association of school principals has also demanded that examinations slotted in first half of the day must start by 9 am instead of the current 11am timing.
 
 While this year’s HSC examinations have just concluded, the SSC exams are scheduled to end in the next few days.
 
