NEW DELHI: Systematic   (SIPs) are considered the most convenient and efficient way to invest in equity markets. But mutual fund investors who started SIPs in equity funds 1-2 years ago have not earned very good returns. In some cases, the value of the   may even be lower than the amount invested. Many others have earned less than what a savings bank account offers.In December 2016, the average 2-year SIP returns from equity funds were 2.88%.Does this mean you should reconsider your SIP investments?

 Let's begin by eliminating a misconception about SIPs. They are a mode of investing, not an investment option. If returns are not poor, it might be that the market is going through a downturn (as it has in the past two years) or because you have invested in an underperforming fund. “As SIP can't give good or bad returns. That depends on fund performance,“ says Vidya Bala, Head of Mutual Fund Research, FundsIndia.com.
 
 
 
 
 SIPs don't always generate positive returns. They help average out the costs, but there is no assurance of capital protection. Amol Joshi, Founder of PlanRupee Investment Services, points out that SIPs only ensure that the investor buys at all market levels. For instance, a threeyear SIP started in January 2006 and closed in December 2008 would be deep in the red, since the markets rose in 200607, but fell sharply in 2008. On the other hand, investors who started SIPs in January 2008 reaped benefits, since the markets recovered in 2010.
 
 Equity markets are inherently volatile. It is this volatility that allows investors to pick up more units when prices are low. You have to look at long-term performance across market cycles to see the complete picture. Don't let the shortterm volatility deter you. Manoj Nagpal, CEO, Outlook Asia Capital, looked at the 10-year and 15-year SIP returns of equity funds. They have delivered attractive returns and built wealth for investors.
 
 
 
 
 There is another reason when small investors should stick to their SIPs. “The real value of an SIP is not in the math but in psychology . SIPs are the simplest way of investing regularly without having to worry whether to invest or not,“ says Dhirendra Kumar, CEO of Value Research. During market volatility , investors start having second thoughts about their equity investments. SIPs instill an investing discipline in such situations.
 
 The other great feature of SIPs is that they match the cash flow of the common investor, who is able to put away only small amounts (`5,000-10,000) out of their monthly salaries.
 
 
 
 
 Small investors are often swayed by interim market volatility and redeem their SIPs too soon. Lakhs of SIP accounts were either discontinued or redeemed during 2008 and 2011 when markets suffered. “Investors make the mistake of stopping SIPs when their returns turn negative, not realising that their funds are actually buying at lower prices,“ says Bala.
 
 If your goal is 8-10 years away, you are in the accumulation stage. “Market downturns are most beneficial during this stage since lower NAVs help you buy more units with the same amount,“ says Nagpal. Many investors fail to understand this and miss the rebounds after downturns. “Discontinuing an investment midway is akin to getting off the vehicle before reaching the destination,“ says Chintan Haria, Fund Manager & Head, Product Development & Strategy, ICICI Prudential.
 
 Ironically, all investors want to buy cheap and sell at a huge profit. In simple terms this would mean buying when markets are down and selling when prices are up. However, IDFC Mutual Fund found that only 1% of inflows were experienced when the market was cheaply priced at a PE of less than 16.When the PE was between 16 and 19 (indicating moderate valuation), about 19% of inflows came in. The remaining 80% flowed in when the market was expensively priced at a PE of over 19.
 
 
 
 
 Outlook Asia Capital conducted elaborate research that looked at the performance of equity funds and the investment philosophies they followed. It assigned 50% weightage to performance (absolute returns and consistency of performance) while 50% was given to qualitative measures, such as maintaining investment philosophy, stability of fund manager and depth of research.They identified six equity funds that could deliver consistent returns to SIP investors over the next 10 years.
 
 Even though these funds are good bets, experts say that one should not invest and forget. “Periodically reviewing the performance of your funds compared to their respective benchmarks and categories will help you weed out underperformers,“ says Jiju Vidyadharan, Director, Crisil Research.
 
 More importantly, investors should be clear about the purpose of the SIPs.“Link your SIPs with specific goals.This way you will chase your goals, and not returns,“ says Swarup Mohanty, CEO, Mirae Asset Global Investments (India). We hope this advice will help you reach your financial goals.
 
