VISAKHAPATNAM: Thanks to the central government’s push to port-led development,   will be cornering a whopping Rs 20,000 crore investments over the next few years, Union minister of road transport & highways and shipping   said while addressing the ‘Sunrise Andhra Pradesh Investment Meet’ on Saturday here.

 Gadkari explained that in order to boost overall investments in the economy, one of the major issues that the country has to work upon is to reduce the logistics costs. Thereby, the country is focusing on port-led development as transporting goods via waterways is cost effective as compared to rail or road. 
 
 Pointing out that the Union government has identified 14 coastal economic zones (CEZs) that will draw a cumulative investment of Rs 8 lakh crore and generate 40 lakh jobs, Gadkari said, “Of these 14 CEZs, two are in AP — Srikakulam to Vijayawada and Vijayawada to Nellore — and together they will draw Rs 20,000 crore.”
 
 He added that the ministry has already started working in the areas of providing highway and rail connectivity in these regions and the state government will have to take care of land availability.
 
 This apart, the minister also stated that the central government will kickstart the long-stalled work on the revival of the Buckingham Canal or the   4 by March. Buckingham Canal is a nearly 800 km stretch of waterway between Kakinada and Villupuram district in Tamil Nadu.
 
 “One of the most important waterways is the Buckingham Canal. We have taken all the decisions, the tender is completed. I am busy with elections and after the UP and Punjab elections, I will come to AP and start the work,” Gadkari assured the AP state leadership.
 
 Gadkari informed that the Rs 2,000 crore project is a joint venture between the government of Andhra Pradesh and the central government.
 
 Meanwhile, speaking about road construction activity in the country, he said it will increase to 30km/day by March this year as compared to 18km/day last year.
 
 He also said the ministry will work on the proposal of CM Chandrababu Naidu to build direct connectivity between Raipur and Visakhapatnam as it will allow Chhattisgarh to effectively export its rich natural resources via ports, providing a win-win situation for both the states.
 
