KANPUR: Nayan Ramesh Shah, the former under-17 and under-19 cricketer, who was arrested for being part of the IPL betting racket, has revealed that he took to betting after failing to secure place in the national squad.

 “He also revealed that as a sports person, he used to get friendly and gain confidence of curators and procured information about the condition of pitch from them. He used to get Rs 1.5 lakh for passing on the information about the condition of the pitch to bookies,“ said a senior police officer privy to the investigation, preferring anonymity.
 
 “In this edition of the IPL, Shah had passed on the information regarding the condition of pitch to bookies operating in other big cities in about 10 matches,“ said the police.
 
 A native of Thane, Shah revealed to investigators that he had earlier passed on in information about matches this year, including   and   in Pune on April 6; between Kings XI Punjab and Rising Pune Supergiants in Indore on April 8; Kolkata Knight Riders and Sunrisers Hyderabad in Kolkata on April 15; Kolkata Knight Riders and Gujarat Lions in Kolkata on April 21; Mumbai India and Rising Pune Supergiants in Mumbai on April 24; Rising Pune Supergiants and   in Pune on April 29; Kolkata Knight Riders and Rising Pune Supergiants in Kolkata on May 3 and Kings XI Punjab and Kolkata Knight Riders in Mohali on May 9.
 
 It was in Wednesday's match between Gujarat Lions and   in Kanpur that police finally nabbed him red-handed with two others on Wednesday night.
 
 A website has reported that investigators also found a dated message on his phone which revealed that Gujarat Lions would lose the match despite scoring nearly 200 runs. It turned out that just way he had predicted. “He claimed that he was successful in making forecasts about the result in about seven matches and was paid Rs 30 lakh by bookies. Flex installer Ramesh Kumar, who was also arrested, used to get Rs 5,000 for sprinkling water on the pitch and procuring its pictures for Shah,“ the officer told TOI.
 
