MUMBAI: Indian cricket, it seems, is at the cusp of chaos. The way things are heading, there could well be two BCCIs, one run by the   appointed Committee of Administrators (COA), and one by the other Board officials who've been opposing them. 

 Friday's clarification by the apex court that an office-bearer who has completed a nine-year tenure in a state association is eligible to contest for a post in   has emboldened Board officials, qualified or disqualified as per the Lodha reforms, to play on the front foot. On Saturday, BCCI joint secretary   shot off a mail to the members of the   (NCA) about a meeting of the   board in Bangalore on March 28.
 
 The NCA board's chairman is former BCCI secretary and   (SCA) president Niranjan Shah, and it includes former India skipper Dilip Vengsarkar, ex-India pacer Prashant Vaidya (VCA VP), Vishal Marwaha (exHPCA secretary), Sanjay Desai (KSCA president) and Subir Ganguly (CAB jt. secretary).
 
 Interestingly, Shah is 72 and is thus disqualified to become an office-bearer in the BCCI. Vengsarkar had quit his post as the MCA VicePresident in January. Chaudhary hasn't informed the COA about this meeting. 
 
 “Any such meeting, which is held without the approval of COA, will be illegal. Amitabh's undertaking (about JSCA adopting Lodha reforms) is yet to be accepted by the SC. Only once the court accepts his undertaking can he execute his functions as a secretary,” a BCCI official made it clear.
 
 Apart from the NCA board members, the mail has been marked to BCCI CEO Rahul Johri, Chief Finance Officer, Santosh Rangnekar, Ratnakar Shetty (GM ­ Admin. & Game Development, BCCI) and MV Sridhar (GM ­ Cricket Operations, BCCI).
 
 On the agenda of the meeting is an update on the activities of the NCA programs conducted since January 2, Staff at the NCA, charting out the activities of the NCA for the next four months, including the Zonal and National camps (which includes selection of the players, appointment of support staff for the NCA, venues for zonal camps), and most importantly, an update on the land for the relocated NCA near Bangalore airport, which it recently purchased from the Karnataka government.
 
 It's learnt that the BCCI has completed the deal for the new land, worth 25 acres costing around Rs 50 crore.
 
 “We want to make a high-performance centre on it, on the lines of a similar facility in Brisbane. We'll appoint top coaches, physios and trainers for the new academy, which will be world-class,“ said a BCCI official.
 
 In the pipeline of these 'rebel officials' are now a meeting of the IPL Governing Council, and a Special General Meeting (SGM) to decide on who'll represent India in the International Cricket Council (ICC) meeting on April 24.
 
