KOCHI: With the   (MoEF) planning to frame new   and management of parks and sanctuaries in India, the ecotourism initiatives in the city are in for substantial changes in the touring patterns in ecologically sensitive areas and wildlife sanctuaries. 

 Thattekkadu and Mangalavanam, which are the two important   in the city, will be the major ones to come under the purview of the   to set up guidelines for ecotourism.
 
 "Most importantly, the 'carrying capacity' which defines and regulates the number of vehicles and visitors that are to be permitted to enter such areas along with the timing and duration for the same will be more seriously considered. Unnecessary and untimely rush into the sanctuaries during the mating season or migration season in case of birds will have a negative impact on the wildlife," said the wildlife warden at Thattekkad Bird Sanctuary.
 
 Presently, there is no solid ecotourism guidelines laid down by the government. It depends on the chief wildlife wardens whether or not to allow and regulate the rush of tourists into the sanctuaries, which however causes confusion for the tourists that visit various sanctuaries according to ecotourism directorate officials.
 
 "The touring preferences of the masses have also changed. There is a prevalence of people wanting to visit forest and other green areas away from the buzz of town. Field trips and picnics to forest areas constitute over 30% of the total holiday businesses. So it would be only practical that some guidelines are formed and implemented here," said Kodanad range forest officer.
 
 He added that increasing the entry fee for the tourists to ecologically sensitive areas might also be of help if considered while forming the strategies to regulate the rush. According to ecotourism directorate sources, policies to employ local residents as trained guides along with promoting homestays in nearby locations will also be put up for discussion as it will help in developing a larger stake in preservation and maintenance of ecosensitive sites.
 
