VIJAYAWADA: The   (BJP) is seemingly not on the same page with the   (TDP) regarding the designs finalised by the state government for the Assembly building, Secretariat, Raj Bhavan and other government offices in the new state capital of Amaravati.

 “The designs do not reflect Telugu heritage,” BJP’s state development committee convener V Srinivasa Raju told reporters here on Tuesday regarding the designs submitted by Norman and Fosters and approved by chief minister Chandrababu Naidu.
 
 The saffron party also found fault with the state government for not finalising the master plan of the new capital’s construction and the delay in submitting the Detailed Project Report (DRP) to the Centre. Sources said the BJP has also made it clear to the TDP that it wants the state government to rework on the designs.
 
 “The designs by Norman and Fosters that were approved by chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu earlier looked like those of power plants and now they look like the ones done for corporate offices and shopping malls. These buildings should be monumental. Places like Assembly where laws are made should be a monumental edifice instead of a corporate-style office. I wonder how a diamond-shaped structure has been approved for a government building,” Srinivasa Raju said.
 
 The BJP leader said there was already a lot of talk among the public regarding the delay in grounding the construction works of the capital and warned that this might lead to discontent as it has been three years since the government has started functioning.
 
 Srinivasa Raju said the Centre is committed to sanctioning required funds for the construction of the capital. “The delay in finalising the master plan and submitting a DPR on the capital construction is creating doubts in the minds of the public. The Centre is committed to construction of Amaravati and will sanction funds as and when the state government submits DPR and final master plan. The state government should do that immediately,” said Srinivasa Raju.
 
 Referring to former Union minister Jairam Ramesh’s allegations that the Telangana government had given special exemptions to Swarna Bharathi Trust run by Union minister M Venkaiah Naidu’s daughter, he said similar exemptions were given to many other trusts. Telangana minister KT Rama Rao had already clarified on the purchase of government vehicles, he added.
 
 He thanked Venkaiah Naidu, who will be demitting the office of the Union urban ministry after being declared the   for vice-president, for allotting two lakh more houses to the state. On the election of   as President of India, the BJP leader said BJP is the only party that is giving importance to Dalits and Backward Classes.
 
