PUNE: With chief minister   insisting that Maharashtra must emerge as a leading state in  , the state officials are studying various models, including the Sweden   of cashless economy.

 Following the recent Nagpur session of the state assembly, where Fadnavis asked elected representatives and government officials to work on cashless transaction models, the government officials are busy exploring various models.
 
 Sweden has attracted the attention of Maharashtra and other states, including Andhra Pradesh, considering that cash transactions make up barely 2% of the value of all payments made in Sweden and the figure is set to drop to 0.5% by 2020. As Sweden races ahead to become the world’s first cashless economy, digital payments via card or mobile apps are so common and trusted that many Swedes no longer carry cash and they let their children pay with cards.
 
 Swedes mainly use debit cards and the new favourite mobile payment app, Swish. So many people are ‘swishing’ now that the app is credited for reduction of cash circulating in Sweden, according to a study by KTH Royal Institute of Technology. According to the Swedish government’s data, majority of retailers like handling less cash. Swish and mobile payment methods such as iZettle make it easier for small business owners to operate cash-free. “But some vendors are frustrated with the transaction fees that come with cards, and even the new apps – just as in other countries. And parts of the older, less tech-savvy generation are not thrilled with the move to a cash-free society. However, as technology becomes a bigger part of everyday life for the older generation, Sweden’s move to a cashless society will only gather speed. Cash is already scarce, and card will become even more king,” the government report said.
 
 As states in India, including Maharashtra, closely watch the  , the Centre has announced setting up of a 13-member committee, which includes six chief ministers from Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, Sikkim and Puducherry, to come up with an action plan to rapidly expand the use of digital payment platforms across the country. The committee would be headed by Andhra Pradesh chief minister Chandrababu Naidu and would include top names from industry and academia as special invitees. The committee, under the leadership of NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant, will identify and operationalise in the earliest possible time user-friendly digital payment options in all sectors of the economy.
 
 But vice-president of the All-India Bank Employees' Association Vishwas Utagi said reforms in financial sector were much needed and only then can one dream of a cashless society. “Before cashless economy, we have to clean the banking system which is fountainhead of corruption. At the same time, RBI is choking cooperative banks,” he said.
 
 However, there are other hurdles to a cashless society.
 
  In his report “Measuring progress towards cashless society”, Hugh Thomas says that there are pre-requisites for going cashless; these include access to financial services, macro-economic and cultural factors, merchant scale and competition and technology infrastructure.
 
 “Over the next few years, consumers will enjoy even greater choice when paying for goods and services and for paying each other. As a result, cash consumption as a proportion of overall spending in the domestic economy will continue to decline. However, given consumer preferences, recent historical trends, and the absence of significant initiatives on the part of retailers, banks or government” to push people away from cash, the absolute amount of cash used for transactions is likely to remain resilient,” said banking expert Tom Fish and Roy Whymark in their research paper on banking.
 
 
