She created history by becoming the first Indian woman to win the   at the Olympics last year. Since then, she has been the toast of the country. Today, shuttler Pusarla Venkata Sindhu aka   has nearly 200 solo wins to her credit and is currently the world No 3. It’s little wonder that she is the next sports personality whose story is being brought to life on celluloid. Now,   is gearing up to make a   titled 'Sindhu' on the young   sensation.
The actor-producer got his team to research Sindhu’s life and put together a script before he met her to discuss the movie. Earlier this year, the two also met at the Times Of India Sports Awards (TOISA), where Sindhu won the Sportsperson Of The Year award. When asked why he decided to make this film, Sonu told BT, “When Sindhu won the   medal, I thought of making a biopic on her and started researching. Reading about her journey — she would travel 50 kms daily to the badminton camp from her home to practise — I was motivated to make this film.” 
 
  
  
 He further adds, “Considering that other sports, besides cricket, have been gaining prominence in the country since the last few years, I think it’s the right time to tell a story about our badminton champ, who is the first Indian woman to win an Olympic silver. Sindhu’s parents — father PV Ramana and mother Vijaya — were professional volleyball players. While Vijaya was a national level player, Ramana was part of the Indian team that won the bronze at the 1986 Asian Games. Sindhu opted for and excelled in badminton, is an   and also a  . So, I think a film like this will inspire youngsters, more so girls, to pursue their dream in sports and make the country proud.”
 When asked about who will play Sindhu on screen and who will helm the biopic, Sonu maintained, “I’ve just begun talks, so it’s still too early to divulge that.” Probed if he will also be acting in the film, he said, “We’ll see that after we zero down on the final script and if the director feels I suit a role.”
 On her part, Sindhu said, “I’m honoured and pleased to know that Sonu has decided to make a biopic on my life. I’m very impressed with the thorough research that his team has done for the last eight months. They have written a script, which I’m sure will inspire millions of Indians and our youth to dare to dream and achieve glory for their country, in spite of all the hardships and hurdles that we face in our journeys.” 
 
  
  
 
 
