It's only in North Korea or in the trouble-torn regions of Israel and Palestine that you would have probably heard of gunmen stationed at a sports stadium to look after security. You needn't go so far now though. The Sree Kanteerava Stadium hosts its own set of Border Security Force's armed guards to monitor (read: keep out) people entering through the main lobby.

 Mind you, there was no VIP activity on Thursday nor was a major event - like an international   match or Asian Athletics Championships - scheduled to take place there. Just a football "talent hunt" programme. Boy, these kids who are playing in the ongoing  ' U-19 Football Tournament must sure be lucky to enjoy such VVIP cover. That too for a local championship, which is just Phase I of the Union government's Mission XI Million programme to promote the Under-17 World Cup that will take place in the country later this year. While the boys play here, the girls' matches are conducted at the   in Ashok Nagar. No armed forces there.
 
 These gunmen fortunately don't have the licence to kill here but they sure as hell play killjoy to poor curious-looking kids who enter the stadium with much excitement for an evening of training. A reporter from another newspaper who entered the lobby mistaking it for the venue of a press conference was stopped and questioned.
 
 Mirror photographer   too was harassed for taking a couple of snaps of the guards. While the gunmen guard the lobby, policemen from Sampangi Rama Nagar formed a second layer of security in the space between the stands and track.
 
 The organisers meanwhile closed entry into the track by locking up the grill. The   surely wanted to secure this border well, especially after  , an Olympian who trains children at the Kanteerava, got into an altercation with a football coach a couple of days ago. Two matches of the tournament go on daily from 2-5 pm till May 15 and the track is thrown open to athletes only after that.
 
 "All the gates are closed for athletes and it's the first time this (kind of incident) is happening,"  , an Arjuna awardee and head of the Bangalore Urban District Athletics Association, said. "They are open only after 5 pm. We had to conduct a press conference in the stands because we weren't given access to the VIP hall in the main lobby."
 
 For long, the department of youth empowerment and sports (DYES) has been mulling over an ID-card system for athletes after various incidents of the track being breached. With the gunmen posted there, it need not bother. No one will dare.
 
