THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Widespread illegal activities, including misappropriation of funds and unauthorized leasing out of storage facilities to traders at the wholesale agricultural markets across the state have goaded the agriculture department to reconstitute the market executive committees to ensure proper representation of farmers and protect their interests.

 There are six wholesale markets in the state-three in urban areas (at Anayara in Thiruvananthapuram, Maradu in Ernakulam, Venegri in Kozhikode) and three in rural areas (at Nedumangadu in Thiruvananthapuram, Muvattupuzha in Ernakulam and Sulthan Bathery in Wayanad).
 
 “We found that many of these committees were not functioning properly. Farmers were also complaining that their representatives were not discharging their duties to protect their interests,” said agriculture production commissioner and principal secretary Dr Raju Narayana Swamy.
 
 Though the respective district collectors will continue to be the chairpersons of the committees, which will also have a continuous representation of local MLAs, LSG representatives and agriculture officials, the government has nominated three   each as farmers’ representatives in all the six markets. “The wholesale markets are for famers to sell their commodities at a reasonable price. So, we have ensured that they have a genuine representation in the committees,” Swamy pointed out.
 
 An early morning   at Anayara market by agriculture minister V S Sunilkumar, immediately after he assumed office, had found out that produces were not being sourced from local cultivators but from Tamil Nadu. Successive raids and inspections at other markets have exposed other illegal activities.
 
 “At Vengeri in Kozhikode, we found that the cold storage facility was being used to store almonds. Not a single farmer in Kerala produces almonds and that meant that the facility was being leased out to traders who sell products from other states. We will not permit or promote such practices and the reconstituted committees will see to it,” the principal secretary said.
 
 Similarly, another wholesale market, instead of focussing on catering to farmers’ requirements, had constructed a volleyball court on its premise. In yet another case of misappropriation of funds, another market gave away Rs 5 lakh for conducting a flower show. “Flower show is not a bad thing but such shows are being taken care of by the tourism department or agri-horticulture societies and not by diverting farmers’ funds,” Swamy said.
 
 “With the new committees in place, we are hoping that we could revitalize the wholesale markets and protect the interests of farmers,” he added.
 
