Cleared/Anil (406)

 Coimbatore: It was business as usual for the government offices in the city and they didn’t seem to be affected by the biggest political drama unfolding in the state with new twists and turns every minute.
 
 However, there was a palpable eagerness among the officers to keep track of “all developments” as they grabbed quick glances at the television every now and then and spared no chance to pass their comments, as it’s interesting times in the state. And it was their favourite lunch and tea time chat topic. “During tea and lunch, we discuss and debate over how the political scene would turn out. Many young officers with smart phones update us on latest developments,” said an officer attached to the family welfare department.
 
 “Since the whole drama is juicy, we have good laugh and pass our opinions and predictions,” said another sanitary inspector. Otherwise, offices seemed immune to the uncertainty surrounding the system as they carried on with their work as usual.
 
 The district collectorate received petitions from the public and disability certificate applications were received, reviewed and even issued. While the registration office relatively saw lesser activity, officers were seen at their desks going through their files.
 
 The health department was busy with the Measles, Mumps and Rubella (MMR) vaccination programme, besides handling dengue and the H1N1 virus crisis. On Friday, almost all top officers of the public health department visited vaccination drive spots, getting feedback and updating the number of children vaccinated on their registers. A few officers were busy coordinating the teams visiting H1N1-prone areas and checking on dengue prevention activities.
 
 The scene at the transport and civic body offices weren’t any different either. City corporation officers held their routine meetings on dengue prevention works and conducted area inspections, among others. They also issued building approvals and met contractors and public, coming in with new projects.
 
 At the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) office, officers ensured that all files moved smoothly as per schedule. Regular meetings were also held without any interruption.
 
 However, offices that usually function till 7.30pm, especially the district collectorate, seemed to clear out by 6pm sharp. Every officer seemed to rush home to catch the latest “action” on television or read the developments online. To reporters’ queries, most of them quipped, “You must know more than us. No one knows what is going to happen. Whatever be the outcome, it won’t make any difference to us.”
 
 
