PUNE: In the early hours of Sunday , the   on police records for brutally killing two at Rise village in   on Saturday evening.

 The 26-year-old,  , of Pandhare Mala in Hadapsar, was released from   in October last year due to good conduct. He had been sentenced to seven years imprisonment in an attempt to murder case.
 
 After being arrested, on being questioned, Kumawat admitted to his involvement in the murder of Anil Shivarkar (32), a criminal on police records, and Shivarkar's friend Manish Jagtap (34). “We have handed Kumawat to the local crime branch of the Pune rural police for further investigations,“ said Madan Bahaddarpure, senior inspector of Bund Garden police station.
 
 On Saturday around 7pm, a farmer from the Rise village Navnath Adsul noticed two unconscious men lying under a tree at his farm. Adsul immediately alerted the Jejuri police. The two men were rushed to the hospital, where they were declared dead.
 
 The police weren't able to ascertain the identity of the duo until late in the night. “Except two letters `SA' tattooed on of the person's forearm, we found nothing at the spot or with the bodies that could help identify them,“ the officer said.
 
 He said the tattoo eventually helped Jejuri police ascertain the identity of Anil Shivarkar from Mhatobachi Alandi. “Shivarkar had about 15 different cases registered against him. His relatives identified the body . On Sunday , we were also able to trace Jagtap's relatives,“ the officer added.
 
 The murder case was registered around 2.30 am on Sunday , the officer added.
 
 Bahaddarpure said police constable Sachin Kadam received information that Kumawat had committed two murders in Rise village on Saturday and would be coming to Pune Railway station to leave the district. “Our team laid a trap and traced Kumawat near the railway station around 5am,“ Bahaddarpure said.
 
 During questioning, Kumawat revealed that he got acquainted with Shivakar when they were in Yerawada prison. “On Saturday , Shivakar had invited Kumawat for lunch at Saswad. After reaching Saswad, Kumawat, Shivarkar and Jagtap went to Rise village. They stopped to consume liquor at a farm.“Shivarkar and Jagtap got drunk but Kumawat did not drink,“ Bahaddarpure said.
 
 After getting drunk, Shivarkar and Jagtap started abusing Kumawat. “ An infuriated Kumawat slit Shivarkar's throat and bludgeoned Jagtap with stones before fleeing the spot,“ Bahaddarpure said.
 
