Mumbai: The   (MHCC) wants   to go back to the drawing board once again and redesign the proposed glass   over Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) subway entrances. 

 MHCC said the canopies have to be placed in a manner that a large portion of Unesco-nominated CSMT is visible to lakhs of commuters and tourists daily. TOI had first reported (January 14) about the civic body’s plans to change the blackened polycarbonate sheets which cover the four entrances/exits of the subway with a glass covering. BMC had made a presentation before MHCC, seeking its approval. After the committee gave its in-principal sanction, BMC floated tenders worth Rs 2.89 crore for replacement of the canopies. 
 
 But MHCC has now raised doubts about the glass canopy at one entrance, which it felt will block the view of a large portion of CSMT. A senior   committee official said, “We have therefore told BMC to consider that the canopy at the CSMT side entry be slanting and that the structure be given more prominence than the glass canopy. The arches on the front side of the structure need to be more visible, and if needed, the canopy height can be reduced.” 
 
 BMC has reportedly already procured the glass for the canopy from Germany. The toughened glass can handle up to 45 degrees Celsius temperature and has been bought keeping in mind the city’s extreme weather. BMC was trying to change at least two out of the four entrances/exits before the monsoon, while the glass of the CSMT-side entrance was to have been changed after the monsoon. A civic official said changing the sheets should not take long, except for some plastering which may be required.
 
 Assistant municipal commissioner (A ward) Kiran Dighavkar said they were considering MHCC’s suggestions. “We have received approval from the civic standing committee and a contractor has been appointed,” Dighavkar said. 
 
 For over a year, BMC has been revamping the area around CSTM and recently, a viewing gallery was inaugurated. It allows locals and tourists to take photographs of the iconic structures around it, apart from railings which separate the footpath from the road outside CSMT being changed to black cast iron ones to complement the looks of the heritage site.
 
