HYDERABAD: Chaos reigns supreme at the Secunderabad railway station area, one of the busiest places in the city. The   which extends from   all the way to   and the   tells a story of an area struggling to cope as the steady stream of vehicles and humanity never ebb.

 The scene is at its worst at Chilkalguda crossroads which is an intersection of six roads with no traffic lights as the one that was there is now dysfunctional. With traffic flowing from all sides, it is a fight for survival for two-wheeler riders trying to escape being squeezed by buses and other big vehicles.“Traffic here flows from 12 roads and at peak hours the jam extends up to Bhoiguda,“ said K Sathish Kumar, a daily commuter.
 
 If the Chilkalguda nightmare wasn't enough, the road from Rathifile Bus station to Secunderabad station throws up a challenge for everyone, either walking on driving. Hawkers occupy almost three fourths of the road in the area. Though there is a designated path for pedestrians, particularly from Secunderabad station towards  , this has also been taken over by hawkers. With the road narrowing because of hawkers, pedestrians are forced to walk right in the middle of the road even as vehicles come from different directions.Four college students who managed to cross holding hands on Monday told TOI that cops must do more to regulate traffic. “The most affected here are pedestrians,“ Md Akram, an Intermediate student, said. Then there are buses taking U-turns at Rathifile bus station bringing the entire traffic to standstill. Apart from this, there are several major schools in the vicinity and during peak hours it becomes a mad rush to get children to school in time. The metro rail construction has now added to traffic jams, especially between Blue Sea Hotel and Regimental Bazar.While traffic police are out on roads during peak hours, it is obvious that more concrete measures need to be taken if traffic has to be brought back on track in the area.
 
 TIMES VIEW :
 
 The traffic congestion around Secunderabad railway station is only getting worse with each passing day.The local police may be taking some measures but this knotted issue needs to be discussed at the highest level in the state.Satellite images should be used to draw a perfect master plan to de-congest the entire area. Instead of only politicians making use of a helicopter for their rides, the city police should be provided the facility to make a study from the sky on how best to reduce congestion on the ground. The traffic police should make use of drones for photography to get a complete picture at different times of the day to draw up plans.
 
