CHENNAI: Making last-ditch efforts to convince the Centre to exempt   from National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test ( ), at least for two years, the state is looking at several options, including promulgation of an ordinance, state health minister C Vijaya Baskar said.

 “We discussed the idea for an ordinance in New Delhi. The ordinance will exempt state-run medical colleges from NEET for at least two years,” Vijaya Baskar said.
 
 The minister, who returned from New Delhi on Tuesday after back-to-back meetings with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union ministers, said the state tried to convince several ministries to push for the Act passed by the Tamil Nadu assembly, but the Centre was yet to respond favourably. “The priority is the get the President’s nod. We are hoping to arrive at a decision in the next two days,” Vijaya Baskar said. “We have given the Centre details for the queries they had sent. We are the only state relentlessly arguing against NEET putting MBBS/ BDS counselling on hold,” he said.
 
 Unlike the Act, an ordinance will require a prior consent from the Union home ministry. After the nod, the ordinance can be promulgated and sent for the governor’s signature.
 
 Legal experts say the state government is now left with three options if it wants to avoid NEET – presidential assent for its bill, ordinance and 85% reservation for state board students. But given the circumstances, a presidential nod for the two laws enacted earlier this year is nigh impossible.
 
 On January 31, the assembly passed an Act to exclude Tamil Nadu from NEET. Since then, the state has been waiting for the President’s assent without which the law cannot be enforced. The Centre has sent at least two sets of questions to the health department, but has not conveyed its final decision even after chief minister   met Modi twice.
 
 A team of five state ministers visited Union ministers and senior officials of health, HRD, law and home twice in the past 10 days to obtain the President’s nod. Senior health department officials, including health secretary J Radhakrishnan, have been camping in New Delhi. But officials in the Centre said the file was with home minister Rajnath Singh. “No decision has been taken. The delay is because we believe there may be huge legal and political ramifications,” a senior official said.
 
 But during discussions with Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, legal experts suggested that the state should take the ordinance route as medical education falls under concurrent subject. Prasad had said the Centre may consider a temporary exemption for TN from NEET.
 
 “For nearly 10 years, we have not had any competitive exams. We are the only state to do so. If we have to change, we will need to give our teachers and students a little time to adapt,” Vijaya Baskar said.
 
 
