NEW DELHI: The National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission ( ) has allowed a woman’s appeal seeking an insurance payout for the   of her husband and has directed the   to pay Rs 27 lakh. The company earlier had refused to pay, saying the man had died of hypertension and not a head injury. Presiding member of the commission Dr SM Kanitkar, however, said the company had made “unflappable attempts” to correlate the accidental death to “hypertensive etiology”.

 Ramesh Prasad was working with Visakhapatnam Steel Plant and had a policy with the New India Assurance Co Ltd. On September 15, 2008, he fell after parking his vehicle at his house at around 11pm and suffered a head injury. He was rushed to hospital and then moved to another hospital where he died on September 17. A post-mortem examination revealed he had died due to the head injury. The wife approached the insurance company seeking to claim the insurance, but was denied. She moved the state commission of Andhra Pradesh but did not get any relief there either, so she moved the NCDRC.
 
 The company contested the woman’s claims before the commission, saying its policy was only applicable to  . Prasad’s death, according to its investigator’s findings, the company argued, was due to hypertension. The company said this was evident from the documents of the second hospital where the deceased was treated on September 16, 2008. The condition was diagnosed as intra-cerebral haemorrhage, hypertensive bleeding and aneurysm bleeding. Therefore, death was the result of a massive intracranial haemorrhage due to a possible rupture in an artery, it was argued.
 
 The complainant argued that the duty doctor who had examined her husband said he had suffered a severe head injury. Then he was moved to the other hospital where he underwent cranial surgery. The company argued that the investigating surveyor had obtained her husband’s past medical records and, on the basis of the records, it was concluded that Prasad had been suffering from hypertension. The company also relied on the discharge certificate of the second hospital’s doctor, who opined that it was an inter-cerebral haemorrhage, a result of hypertension. It said the post-mortem report was vague and merely an opinion that mentioned injury to the brain. It was also argued that the wife had taken the insured to the hospital on September 16 whereas he had fallen the previous night.
 
 The commission, after scrutinising all medical records, noticed Prasad had been under regular treatment for hypertension but that it was under control. At the second hospital, an emergency craniotomy surgery was performed. According to operative notes, there was a left temporal haemorrhage but no mention of an aneurysm of the cerebral vessel. “I have perused the (discharge) certificate… It is pertinent to note that it is an undated, handwritten certificate/document and appears to be issued on January 5, 2009... It clearly indicates that it was issued after a pretty long time, at the insistence of the insurance company,” the commission observed.
 
 The commission found it surprising that the insurance company had relied on the opinion of a surveyor, who was not a medical professional. “It is absolutely a misleading report. The company should have consulted a team of doctors before confirming such misleading opinion,” it observed. 
 
 
