ROHTAK: Feeling burdened, and exploited, by the heavy fee charged by private schools, residents of   and   villages in   have decided to pull out their wards and shift them to government schools. The decision was taken at a meeting of the mahapanchayat held here on Thursday.

 The two government senior secondary schools and two government primary schools at Bhainswal Kalan Bawla have a strength was 200 students only, while around 1,200 students study in private schools, village sarpanch Manjeeta's husband Narender Kumar told TOI. "We conducted a survey in the village and found out that a monthly amount of Rs 15 lakh was paid as tuition fees to private schools in the area while our government schools, where teachers draw a handsome salary, do not have students," he said. 
 
 Bhainswal Kalan Mithan sarpanch Rajesh claimed there was only one issue with government schools, that they do not have the required staff strength and infrastructure. At least, it does not match up to that in private schools, he said. "For that the residents of both the villages have agreed to give donations for hiring staff from outside and depute them in the government schools and build necessary infrastructure to bring them them at par with the private schools," said Rajesh, who is serving his first term as sarpanch.
 
 The mahapanchayat members also contacted the Sonipat district education officer (DEO) for providing staff in government schools so that all their wards could study there. The mahapanchayat resolved to run these government schools in a way that they emerge better than private schools in terms of staff and infrastructure.
 
  said the department had received the staff requirement from the village panchayat and forwarded it to the state education department headquarters in Panchkula for necessary action. He assured that the department would provide all help to encourage people to admitted their wards in government schools.
 
 Bhainswal Kalan Mithan and Bhainswal Kalan Bawla have a population of about 20,000. Olympic medalist wrestler   and paralympic medallist Deepa Malik also belong to these two villages. Narender said they have started contacting educated youths and retired teachers, asking them to give free tuition to children in evenings.
 
