BENGALURU: The services of seven Muslim and   in the state government's   and   (also known as muzrai department) is snowballing into a controversy, with right-wing activists dashing off a complaint to governor Vajubhai R Vala. 

 Activists say appointment of non-Hindus to the muzrai department is a violation of The   and Charitable Endowments Act-1997. Section 7 of Chapter III in the Act categorically states that all those working in the department should profess Hindu religion. "The state government is working against the Act by having recruited and continuing the services of non-Hindus in the muzrai department. This is illegal as it deprives Hindus of employment opportunities in a department where there is legally no room for other community members," Bengaluru-based Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) member Girish Bharadwaja told TOI. Based on the   replies he has obtained on the issue from the muzrai department, Bharadwaja has written to the governor, seeking his intervention.
 
 While the   has chosen to remain silent,   sympathizers have made it an issue in the social media by charging the Siddaramaiah government with appeasement politics. 
 
 The muzrai department, however, maintained that it has gone by the rulebook. M Nalina, headquarter assistant in the muzrai commissioner's office, said: "All the seven non-Hindu employees have been working in the department much before the Hindu Religious Institutions and Charitable Endowments Act-1997 came into effect. So, they are continuing in the department. No non-Hindu has been recruited in the department after the Act was passed." Currently, there are around 200 employees in the department, which has around 34,450 temples under its purview.
 
 Nalina said temple management in Karnataka was earlier under the revenue department and was regulated by five different Acts: The Karnataka Religious and Charitable Institutions Act-1927, The Madras Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment Act - 1951, The Bombay Public Trust Act-1950, The Hyderabad Endowment Act and The Coorg Temple Funds Management Act-1956. All these legislations were replaced by the 1997 Act to bring about uniformity in issues related to regulating temples and the seven employees continued with their work.
 
 Sangh Parivar activists however maintained: "Going by the department's argument and the eligibility criteria prescribed in the 1997 Act, the government should transfer the seven non-Hindus to other departments." Activists have also alleged that funds under the Aradhana Scheme, meant for temple maintenance, had been diverted to non-Hindu institutions.
 
