Bhopal: The sheath around the thumb of many youngsters in the city is getting affected by the excessive use of mobile phones. Doctors call it the De Quervain syndrome.

 Earlier, such a syndrome only affected people in their mid-50s. Aided by the extensive use of mobile phones and constant texting, tendons along the wrist of many youngsters are showing signs of inflammation that triggers the De Quervain syndrome.
 
 “Earlier, De Quervain syndrome affected people with age. It also affected people who indulged in excessive writing activities. But, with the advent of new technology along with touchscreens has resulted in a similar effect on people hooked to mobile phones,” said Dr Paras Jain, an orthopaedic consultant at JP hospital.
 
 “Continuous engagement with cell phones is affecting people with De Quervain syndrome, which is a painful inflammation of tendons in the thumb region that extends to the wrist. Some experts place the number of affected from excessive texting to have increased by as much as 20 per cent”, Dr Jain said.
 
 The problem is not just limited to youngsters though. Many working executives in their middle-ages are also reporting injuries that are sustained by prolonged use of tech gadgets.
 
 “Prolonged use of mobile devices shrinks the tendon sheath around small joints of the fingers and thumb. This trigger effect leads to locking of the thumb that can significantly hinder hand function and affect routine activities,” said Dr Ram Soni, another orthopaedic consultant at JK hospital.
 
 “If untreated, it causes discomfort and certain cases need surgical intervention,” said Dr Jain. At times the problem can be felt by a ‘click’ sound that is being triggered around the thumb.
 
 The syndrome also brings numbness around the elbow. “The numbness and tingling sensation over a period of time causes a compression of the ulnar nerve around the elbow. Blood circulation is affected and if left untreated it may severely affect the tendons and ligaments,” said Dr Soni.
 
 WHO GETS IT
 
 Watch out for pain along the radial side of the thumb
 
 Condition can happen gradually or start suddenly.
 
 Diabetics and people with thyroid are more exposed to such pain
 
 Do not ignore signs of pain
 
 Avoid over usage of gadgets and texting
 
 
