BENGALURU: ERUDITION LOST Doctorates Were Once Considered The Pinnacle Of Academic Qualification. The Sharp Increase In The Number Of Recipients Across The Country In Recent Times Raises Concerns Over The Quality Of Dissertations & Diminishing Rigour In Research
India is producing more PhDs than ever before, and so is Karnataka. It still wants many more to match the explosive growth of its   and population. That universities churning out a high number of doctorates is crucial for an educated young workforce, it does come with its own set of problems -declining quality of education and the industry unable to accommodate these highly-educated but poorlyqualified researchers.
 
 The question of whether a PhD degree is as elite as it once was has become more pertinent in recent times with a sharp rise in the number of recipients. In the 2015-16 academic year, a total of 24,171 PhDs were awarded across the country, of which 1,945 were from Karnataka, most after Tamil Nadu (3,973) and UP (2,205). Bang alore University awarded as many as 126 PhDs in 2016-17. “We see the gradation of research, citations, index, course work, date of registration, actual work done during the entire period (usually 2-3 years) before awarding a PhD. But yes, we want to improve on research,“ says K N Ninge Gowda, registrar (academics),  .
 
 Several varsities have adopted quality control technologies such as software that detects possible plagiarism. Bangalore University adopted it four years ago. “So far, no student has been charged with plagiarism. We do this check before awarding a PhD,“ said Gowda.
 
 “Involvement of guides and a student's bent of mind and willingness to work hard matters a lot,“ says Gowda. A lead professor, along with taking PG classes, now often guides 6-8 research students a year.
 
 Professor Rajendra Chenni, head, Department of English at   (Shivammogga), admits that it's difficult for a professor to supervise doctoral thesis of 8-9 students on varied subjects.
 
 “Among the reasons for decline in quality of research is lack of motivation. The muchneeded research aptitude is missing among many who register for a PhD. Besides, many working lecturers also pursue PhD for academic performance average prescribed by the   (UGC) for career advancement,“ says Chenni, a wellknown researcher and academician of Karnataka.
 
 Ideally, universities should conduct pre-PhD tests, interview for entrance, test a candidate's grasp on the research topic he's interested in, feels Chenni. “A research proposal is examined at regular intervals by Kuvempu University's doctoral committee,“ he says.
 
 He says the need of the hour is to cultivate a culture of research similar to that in existence in Central varsities.
 
 “Earlier, the litmus test for a doctoral thesis was the repu tation of the journal it got published in. But with more of them finding place in paid journals, they are gradually losing their significance,“ says a professor.
 
 
 
 
 Professor Narendra Pani of School of Social Science at National Institute of Advanced Studies says the problem lies in not asking right questions when a candidate decides on a research topic. “Understanding the Indian context is crucial for a PhD student. What we see now is students use the western model and try to find answers for questions once asked by western researchers. That has no social relevance here and hence they fail to theorize,“ he says. “For instance, post-demonetization, it would be interesting for a student doing research in economics to understand its impact on the informal sector,“ says Pani.
 
 “In 1970s, economists like Amartya Sen came out with findings on why and how big farms had lesser productivity , and the inverted pyramid analysis. That's because of their thorough understanding of the local conditions and asking right questions before theorizing. That's what is missing now,“ he adds.
 
