It has been exactly one year since 'Balika Vadhu's ' Anandi',   Bannerjee committed suicide. Her close friend   is releasing her short film next month. She has gone all out helping her parents and has also stated that whatever money she earns through this film will go to Pratyusha's parents.
 
  In an exclusive interview with Times Of India.com   Punjabi revealed some facts and figures about Pratyusha and her last days with friends. The actress regrets not being able to meet her much during her last days as Pratyusha had distanced herself from her friends.
  
  She also went on to say that Pratyusha would have been alive and living happily had she been in touch with her and their friends.
  
  
  What made you make this short film on Pratyusha?
  
  
 This is not a film on Pratyusha, it is a film which we shot when she was alive. It's a film which my friend Neeru has produced, Prayusha and I have acted in it. It's is her last film. It is what I believe is the last film that she shot. You might have seen the promos and you saw someone depressed and how to deal with depression. Though the film would look incomplete because we couldn't complete the shoot because she finished her life before that. It is incomplete, but after the screening of this film, Neeru and I have wanted to talk to the people and bring certain things in front of the people, which I think every second person is dealing with in their lives. There is a motto of this film, the first and foremost being that this is the last thing I have of her, I cannot let this go waste.
  
  
  
  
  
 There are people talking all sorts of things after you released the teaser of the film?
  
  
 No! Everyone is talking good about it, I think only those who have guilt are talking bad about it. I don't care what people say and what not. My motive is to release this film, because whatever money we earn through this film will go to Pratyusha's parents. So, there is no question or scope of making money and doing any sort of business.
  
  
 How did Pratyasha's parents react when you told them about this film?
  
  
 They were extremely happy. And they are happy with the thought of releasing this film and all the money that comes from this film goes to them. This is not a business. Neeru has produced this film, she has invested money, I am investing money now. Both of us are doing this so that this film can be released and her parents would get some security. They are happy that they have something to look forward to. They have got some hope now. I would not say that they are very happy, but I would say that they are felling a little better. This is what I am trying to do. I cannot bring back Pratyusha, but at least I can try to take her place and her responsibility. That's all I am doing, and if people have problems with this too, then to hell with them.
  
  
  
  
  
 You said that you couldn't shoot the climax of the film with her, then how did you end the film without her?
  
  
 I would want to actually watch it for that. I wouldn't want to say much. When Neeru and I edited the film, we thought of a certain way of ending it. Whenever I saw the film while editing, with background music or anything, it was so heavy on me. So, I want everybody to watch it, give your love and blessings to this film, so that something good happens in the lives of Pratyusha's parents.
  
  
 There were reports that during her last days, she did not interact with you much.
  
  
 After Rahul came into her life, she had distanced herself from all her friends. There were many of her friends who were unhappy with the fact that she was dating Rahul and there were many who were not happy with him because of him past. I am one of those who didn't like Rahul and I somehow didn't approve of him since day one. Though Pratyusha and I didn't meet often, but we were definitely in touch and we met once or twice but we couldn't talk much. I have this inside me that had I been with her then, she would have been living today for sure.
  
  
 Rahul has recently said that he would be writing a book on Pratyusha and let the world know about the Pratysha he knew. What do you have to say about that?
  
  
 (Laughs) You know what, let's wait and keep waiting for years together to read this book, because I don't think that something of this sort would ever happen. Another thing I want to say is that there is a big difference between saying and actually doing it on the ground. There are a lot of things which I am doing, but am not talking about them. This is just the beginning and many more things are going to happen in the coming future. Second thing I want to say is that once there was his byte in some article where Rahul said, "I have filed a defamation case against Kamya Punjabi." That article came out, but I guess the note is yet to reach me. So, if a court notice has taken one year to reach me, then I wonder when would the book be written and released.
  
  
 
  
  
 What went wrong with them that led to Pratyusha taking such a big step?
  
  
 She was a very lively and sweet girl. Her motive was to live in the present and always stayed happy.
  
  
 There was a case filed against Rahul last year, where has it reached?
  
  
 This is a very nice question, because this is my question too, and sometimes I don't understand whom do I question. Sometimes, I feel to hell with law. People don't care much for lives in this country. This is not only in the case of Pratyusha, we have seen this is many cases like rape cases and many other places.
  
  
 Do you think Pratyusha got justice?
  
  
 No! She didn't. Not at all, not even close to justice.
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
