PUNE: As the   draw closer, aspirants and political parties appear to be going all out in a bid to woo voters, a move that hasn’t gone down well with the public.

 Political banners and flex boards occupy every inch of open space on most streets and chowks in the city as an announcement of the poll dates is imminent.
 
 However, questioning the legality of these hoardings, citizens demand strict action by the administration and the police against those responsible for defacing the city. 
 
 “Around 10 ago, when Prime Minister   visited the city for a function,. aspirants and local leaders had put up banners and flags to welcome him. These banners are still there even 10 days after the event. Political parties need to take cognisance and avoid illegal activities,” feels Vivek Kulkarni, a resident of Shivajinagar.
 
 With the   and the Nationalist   expected to slug it out to draw voters into their corner, these “poster wars” are expected to intensify.
 
 Lata Hegde, who travels daily to  , pointed out that Dnyaneshwar Paduka chowk is chock-a-block with such banners. “It seems more banners will come up in the coming days as the battle among aspirants would get fierce. Various kinds of banners are being put up as leaders want to cash on every occasion,” she said.
 
 Ashok Patwardhan, a Sinhagad Road resident, said huge banners and hoardings were displayed at “strategic locations” to mark the birthday of a local leader. The banners are still there even after two weeks, he said.
 
 For its part, the   says it has been tackling this issue on a daily basis. Admitting that most banners lacked proper permissions, Vijay Dahibhate, head of the sky-sign department, said: “Our teams are removing about 1,500-2,000 banners, flags and hoardings daily. We are now forming separate teams for each panel to keep a tab on illegal banners.”
 
 Dahibhate said that the political parties have been given instructions issued by the High Court pertaining to the display of banners.
 
 Yogesh Gogawale, BJP city unit head, said: “I cannot deny the fact that banners are put up ahead of elections. We have told party workers to obtain necessary permissions first and not violate any law.” 
 
 
