MANGALURU: With the state government declaring Bantwal and Mangaluru taluks as drought hit, the Dakshina Kannada district administration is preparing a roadmap to tackle   problem during summer.

 A proposal of Rs 20 crore has been submitted to take up works to provide drinking water in rural areas of the district. A control room has been set to respond to complaints. The district administration also has decided to store water in the new vented dam at Thumbe up to six meters. At present, the water storage is at five meters. The government will release Rs 32 crore to compensate farmers, whose land will be submerged after the storage level is increased to six meters.
 
 Minister for forest, environment and ecology B Ramanath Rai, who is also the district minister, has directed officials to take all measures to supply drinking water in villages of drought-hit Bantwal and Mangaluru taluks. Rai said, “For the first time taluks in Dakshina Kannada district have been declared as drought hit. The district has witnessed dry situation due to insufficient rainfall in the last year. Officials should concentrate more on cleaning lakes and other water resources. Lakes should be developed under the ‘Kere Sanjeevini’ scheme of the government,” Rai said at a meeting of officials.
 
 Water level at Thumbe vented dam, which has a maximum height of 7 meters and a storage capacity of 14,730 million litres of water, should be increased to 6 meters. At present, water level at the vented dam is maintained at 5 meters as the   is yet to acquire adjacent land that would be submerged. On this issue, Rai said he has requested CM Siddaramaiah to release Rs 32 crore. The government has already released Rs 7 crore and the amount has been distributed among the families, who lost their land near the dam. 
 
 Deputy commissioner K G Jagadeesha said that separate committees have been formed in all the five taluks of the district to solve drinking water problems on a real time basis. “Directions have been given to keep all dams across Nethravati river full by December 15. They have been asked not to produce power without the permission of the district administration. Nodal officers have been appointed to monitor dams,” the DC said. 
 
