Mumbai: With a majority of   shareholders on Thursday approving a resolution to give its preference shareholders voting rights in case of a default in dividend payment for two years,   could emerge as the largest shareholder of the company that owns the $103-billion conglomerate.

 Ratan Tata, chairman emeritus of Tata Sons and chairman of  , currently holds 3,368 equity shares (0.83%) and 10.5 lakh preference shares (35.63%) of Tata Sons. This will give him a direct stake of 31.43%.  , former promoter of  , will become the second largest shareholder of Tata Sons with a 17% stake. Sekhsaria holds 5.7 lakh preference shares of Tata Sons. 
 
 Currently, preference shareholders don’t have any voting rights. They get a fixed dividend, the payment of which is on priority — over that of ordinary shareholders.
 
 Thursday’s development gives preference shareholders voting rights on a par with equity shareholders in the event of a two-year non-payment of dividend. If this happens, it would dilute the   family’s hold over Tata Sons from 18.4% to 2.82%. The Mistrys currently hold 74,352 equity shares and 20,000 preference shares.
 
 Tata Trusts, too, will see their stake decrease from 65.29% to 7.88%. But taking Ratan Tata and Tata Trusts together, they will hold 39% in Tata Sons. Ratan Tata’s close aide Noshir Soonawala and a trustee of Tata Trusts has 2.6 lakh preference shares and will have a 7.78% stake in the company, where he had served for more than four decades.
 
 Tata Sons’ preference shares are held by several former Tata veterans and Tata family members. Ratan Tata’s stepbrother and brother-in-law of Cyrus Mistry, Noel Tata and his family will hold 5.65% in Tata Sons.
 
 On Thursday, Tata Sons also moved a step closer to becoming a private limited company with a majority of its shareholders approving the proposal. The Mistrys voted against both the proposals (becoming private limited and preference shareholders getting voting rights) as it will restrict the sale of Tata Sons shares to external parties and will dilute their voting rights.
 
 The Mistrys didn’t attend the company’s annual shareholder meet held at its headquarters in south Mumbai, but voted through their proxies.
 
 The proposal to change the legal structure of Tata Sons from a “deemed public limited company” to a “private limited company” will now require the approval of the National Company Law Tribunal ( ).
 
 The Mistrys had stated that the step to turn Tata Sons into a private limited company was yet another case of minority shareholder oppression. The Mistrys are in a legal battle with Tata Trusts on this issue. A court on Thursday allowed the Mistrys to go ahead with their petition against Tata Trusts.
 
 Tata Sons’ shareholders on Thursday approved 16 resolutions, which included having a minimum of three directors to a maximum of 15 on the board and raising Rs 45,000 crore through non-convertible debentures. Currently, Tata Sons has nine directors.
 
 
