JAIPUR: The state Congress would hold statewide protests on January 7 to highlight common man's sufferings due to Prime Minister  's decision of demonetisation. Two days later, the   would stage sit-ins on the same issue across the state. The opposition party appointed 11 coordinators for the state to specially oversee the protests, on Thursday.

 Senior Congress leaders, including AICC general secretary Gurudas Kamat, former chief minister   and PCC president  , participated in meetings and discussions held the party headquarters here on Thursday to build momentum against BJP governments at the Centre and in the state on issues related to farmers and poor, especially in the backdrop of demonetisation or `note bandi'. The pan-India protests and demonstration would go on, while Congress vice-president   is to address party leaders and supporters in New Delhi on January 11.
 
 “Note-bandi has created `economic terror' in the country; it has hit the backbone of common man, particularly the farmers, labourers and shopkeepers. As per AICC's directions, the state Congress will expose the BJP governments' anti-people policies at public protests,“ PCC president Pilot said. Congressmen would submit memorandums to district collectors during the protests, Pilot said.
 
 During the meetings, Congress MLA   said the opposition par ty still lacked an aggressive stance against the ruling party that was pursuing anti-people policies, said sources. Party's state in-charge Kamat was said to have concurred with Singh's observation. The AICC general secretary said Congressmen in Gujarat were already ready with their lists of booth-level active workers to face the next assembly elections, while the party men in Rajasthan were still to submit their lists. Kamat appealed to Congressmen in the state to come together in fighting the BJP governments.
 
 Ex-CM Gehlot said BJP governments at Centre and state were insulting the huge mandates people gave them in last elections. “The PM calls himself jan-sevak (public servant) but has been taking jan-virodhi (anti-people) decisions. His conduct and language does not befit a PM,“ Gehlot said.
 
