TRICHY: Nearly three decades after taking shelter in India, a majority of   appear to be in two minds in going back to their country despite normalcy returning to the once war-torn island nation. Uncertainty over a peaceful future back home as well as the consequences of returning to India again are the major deterrents for them. 

 Wounded physically and mentally in the ethnic war in 1980s, Sri Lankan Tamils had found   to be a safe haven to survive. With the war between the Sinhalese and the LTTE coming to an end a few years ago, the idea of returning to their homeland had blossomed in the minds of many of the refugees in the 112 camps across the state.
 
 “As citizens of  , we all long to go back to our country and many of our people are gradually stepping into our home towns. Those who have been repatriated so far are making efforts to rebuild their lives on their . The number of such repatriations may increase if normalcy and freedom continue to exist there in the real sense,” said a 65-year-old man in one of the two camps in  . 
 
 In all, 60 refugees had returned from two camps in Kottapattu and Vazhavandhankottai in Trichy since April last year. A similar repatriation has been happening in other camps in the state as well. United Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR) in Chennai had come forward to help them by providing free flight tickets among other things. The agency had also been helping them clear all procedures like securing a one-way passport and exit pass. 
 
 Twenty refugees from Kottapattu camp had been repatriated with the help of UNHCR while two refugees moved back on their own. Similarly, 21 refugees left with support from UNHCR and 17 by themselves from Vazhavandhankottai camp. Last month, two refugees from Kottapattu camp were repatriated. At present, 1,389 refugees including 701 males and 688 females are residing in Kottapattu camp while the other camp has 1,420 refugees including 725 males and 695 females. To return or not is the dilemma haunting these people as they stay put in the camps. 
 
 Tamil Nadu government has been taking care of the refugees for the last three decades by providing shelter on a protected campus, cash dole and free rice. A 37-year-old man from Vavunia told TOI that he is content with what he has been getting from the government under the refugee category. “We had migrated to Mandapam camp in Rameswaram when I was five years old and then shifted to Trichy camp in 1996. Since then we have been residing here because of the cash dole and other benefits from the government. Even if we return to our home land, we are not sure if we will be able to lead a normal life,” he said.
 
 The monthly cash dole includes Rs 1,000 for the head of the family, Rs 750 for those aged above 12 years and Rs 400 for children below 12 years. They also get 20 kg of free rice per family and have to pay only 57 paise for every additional kilogram. 
 
 “Sri Lankan refugees are happily leading their lives in the camps with the help of the state government. Now, they want to move back home. Very few of them have been repatriated while the rest are hesitating to go there,” regional special deputy collector S Natarasan told TOI. 
 
 Though repatriation may be an easy task for them because of the help of NGOs, the refugees are very careful in moving out of India as they cannot be accepted as refugees again if they prefer to return here in case of an unfavourable situation in Sri Lanka. An NGO called Child Fund India recently set up a help centre in Kottapattu camp to provide a clear picture of the circumstances in Sri Lanka to those who wanted to move back home. The refugees have been relying on these inputs to decide about their future plan. “ I have no idea if I can get a normal life there. I have a lot of queries to be clarified before returning. If I am not satisfied, I will not go back,” said a 25-year-old woman. 
 
