GURUGRAM: An   executive was   by five men in   and   of his Mahindra   on Saturday.

 The victim, Aman Suri, drove to a betel leaf shop on Saturday night, which is around 300m from his house. Suri parked his   at a distance and walked up to the shop. He had just begun chewing the betel leaf when he saw three men walking towards his car. Suspecting something amiss, Suri walked up to them. They asked him for a match, but when he replied he didn’t have any, they asked him to hand over his car keys. On him refusing to do so, one of the trio, a well-built man, punched him and tried to snatch the keys. His associates stepped in and one of them pulled out a gun. “I realised the matter was getting serious and it could escalate, so I stopped resisting. I was hit once with the butt of the gun, which left me with a bleeding forehead,” Suri told TOI. He added that by then, a white Swift had arrived. One of the two men in it emerged and joined his tormentors.
 
 Suri was pushed inside his car, with two men holding him down in the rear seat, while two others sat in front. The Swift with a fifth man followed them as the abductors took off. Suri said he saw at least two cars slow down on hearing his screams, but neither stopped.
 
 On his way, Suri heard the men talk about a murder. They dropped him near Kherki Daula, returned his house keys and wallet, but broke his mobile with the gun butt as they drove away in his SUV.
 
 Suri called up the control room who sent a PCR van to his rescue. Crime teams from Bilaspur and Palam Vihar police stations later took Suri to the spot from where he was abducted. He was then taken to Kherki Daula police station, where an FIR was lodged under sections 379B (snatching by use of force) of IPC and 25, 54 and 59 of Arms Act.
 
 “We’re trying to obtain CCTV footage of the route they took to track the vehicle, which we suspect could be used in a crime soon,” said SHO Yashwant of Kherki Daula police station. He said the robbery could have been carried out by members of Delhi-based gangs like Mahal, Nandu or Jyoti.
 
 Later, residents of Vatika India Next society in Sector 83, where Suri lives, approached the police station to protest rise in crime in the area.
 
