BENGALURU: Last weekend, hundreds of   were out late into the night. That may seem regular in the city's restaurant and pub hub, but these residents were out on the streets not to party but to hold a protest against the deterioration of their locality due to  . 

 ' ' screamed their banners as they marched through the marched through the roads of the bustling locality in east Bengaluru, carrying candles. 'Drinks, dance, party, your reasons to stay awake. Headache, sleepless nights, ours,' read another banner.
 
 Indiranagar's long-suffering residents aren't the only ones at their wits' end about commercial establishments eating into their precious neighbourhoods. About 7km away in Koramangala, residents complain about haphazard parking, traffic pile, ups, noise, pollution and more as offices and shops occupy more of their residential streets.
 
 In Malleswaram in west Bengaluru,   is common l activity is common in residential zones.In Sadashivanagar, Rajajinagar, BTM Layout, Jayanagar, Shanthinagar and the rest thinagar and the rest of the city, the complaints similar.
 
 Citizen groups and residents' welfare associations have banded together as Bengaluru Residents' Associations' Confederation Ensemble (BRACE) and launched an online petition against unbridled commer cialization of designated residential zones.
 
 Sridhar Pabbisetty from Namma Bengaluru Foundation, which is behind the online petition, points to the deteriorating quality of life in many neighbourhoods. “Based on records with various taxation agencies, there are an estimated 2.15 lakh commercial establishments in the city. BBMP, however, says there are only 35,000 commercial establishments. This means the civic body is not clear about the number of shops it has awarded trade licences to,“ he said.
 
 Rampant commercialization is threatening the fabric of every neighbourhood. “The notion of coming home to relax after a hard day's work is gone. Loud horns from traffic or thumping music from some pub keep you awake. Children are not able to focus on studies,“ said B Veeresh, member of Vijayanagar  .
 
 Residents of Indiranagar, HSR Layout and Koramangala say drunken brawls and other law and order problems are common near their houses due to the rising number of pubs and bars. Some old-time residents have moved to the outskirts of the city as their once-quiet neighbourhoods have become chaotic.
 
 Pabbisetty said the unchecked commercialization that the civic body is allowing is not only a violation of the zoning regulations and the master plan 2015, but also of a high court judgment. “Instead of implementing the Karnataka high court directive, the civic body is trying to delay the process by forming a committee to look into the matter,“ he said.
 
 Kala S Sridhar, professor, Centre for Research in Urban Affairs, Institute for Social and Economic Change, has a different take on the situation. “Any spurt in commercial activity follows demand from the market. One must see whether the existing rules are financially viable. There could be something wrong with the rules itself. At the same time, there needs to better regulation.Be it solid waste management, noise pollution or safety, the implementation of rules is key,“ she said.
 
