KOLKATA/CHENNAI: Around 4.30 am on Tuesday - when most residents of Rosedale complex in New Town were fast asleep -   was escorted out of his plush apartment by a team of Bidhannagar police officers for a 6.15 am IndiGo flight to Chennai. Little did the team know that six hours later they would be ordered to arrest the same man after the   jailed the sitting Calcutta high court judge for six months, convicting him for contempt of court. 

 Even an hour after the verdict was out, little did   realise that his arrest was imminent. He met journalists at a state guest house in Chennai, apparently for a freewheeling interview (TOI is not publishing details of the meet in deference to the apex court order that media should not publish his statements and orders).
 
 By afternoon, his whereabouts were not known. Sources said he was not available at his Greenways Road home, which he has been retaining more than a year after his transfer to Calcutta high court. Protocol and security personnel attached to him were sent away.
 
 The apex court has ordered the   director-general of police (DGP) to take Karnan into custody; the DGP, in turn, has asked the Bidhannagar Commissionerate to carry out the task. Only hours before, officials from the commissionerate had unwittingly helped Karnan find easy passage out of the city as he flew to Chennai.
 
 "Being a sitting high court judge, he is entitled to a police escort. So we just did our duty by escorting his car out of the complex and to the airport. How could we know we would have to arrest him a few hours later?" said a senior officer at the commissionerate.
 
 Around 11.40 am, nearly an hour after the SC's   order, senior Bidhannagar Commissionerate officers sent a team of officers to the Newtown Action Area III address. Officers ran to his ground floor flat in the complex but found it locked.
 
 The officers checked the housing complex register and found an entry made at 4.42am that mentioned that WB 06C-0001, Karnan's white sedan, had left the compound behind WB 24Y-5941, a police escort car. "Justice Karnan was sitting in the back seat of the car, like on other days. As the police escort car approached, we opened the gates," said a security guard.
 
 Senior officers said they would wait for a final order from the Supreme Court which, they claimed, had not reached them till late on Tuesday. However, sources in the department said they had communicated with their Chennai counterparts seeking help on Karnan's whereabouts.
 
 A senior officer of the commissionerate said that as per rules, once they got a copy of the order, they would send a team of officers from Salt Lake to Chennai, who, with the help of Chennai police, would need to approach Karnan with the arrest warrant and then produce him before the Supreme Court after taking transit remand from a Chennai court.
 
 In March this year, the West Bengal police chief had come to Karnan's rented home at New Town to serve a warrant ordered by the Supreme Court in a contempt case after the apex court asked the Bengal police chief to "personally" serve it to the HC judge, a first in the country's judicial history, after he skipped hearing in a contempt case.
 
