NAGPUR: BJP may have a slight edge over its rivals in   (NMC) elections but its performance during the last ten years leaves a lot to desired. 

 However, a survey conducted by TOI among readers came with a shocking revelation that not even 50% of people take civic polls seriously. While people want cement roads most of them want money to spent on civic amenities rather than memorials and auditoriums. 
 
 Most people agree that the development of the city is skewed with West Nagpur being developed more than other parts. These are some of the findings of a survey conducted by TOI among Nagpurians in the age group of 21 to 50 years.
 
 The survey has found out that only 46% people take civic elections seriously. While 38% said that they did not care for NMC polls, 16% said that they were not sure about it. 
 
 Political science professor Rahul Bavge feels that this is hardly surprising. “People think that they can get their problems related to NMC solved by contacting the officers or by paying bribe so there was no point in approaching the corporators. In general there is feeling that election promises are not fulfilled. Politicians do not have a good image, which has deteriorated further after Anna Hazare anti-corruption crusade,” he said.
 
 Going by the survey responses, BJP seems to doing better than Congress and other parties. While 56% respondents said that BJP had governed the city well, only 20% responded negatively. Some 48% respondents said that BJP could win against 20% who said otherwise. About 32% said they were unsure. 
 
 Over half -- 54% -- feel that presence of union transport minister   in New Delhi and chief minister Devendra Fadnavis in Mumbai was helping the development of the city. Some 16% replied in negative and 30% said that they were unsure. 
 
 These may not be very flattering figures for BJP but 58% people feel that opposition was weak and this help the ruling party. Only 14% felt otherwise. On corruption front, only 22% respondents that the BJP reign was less corrupt than others.
 
 Ruling party leader Dayashankar Tiwari claimed that the survey results indicated that BJP was going to win over 100 seats. “We can’t win each and every seat and the survey only shows this,” he said.
 
 The survey has a major lesson for BJP. While 88% respondents said that they wanted cement roads, 72% people said that it was wrong to spend money on projects like   auditorium and Vivekanand memorial instead of roads, sewer lines and water pipelines. Similarly, 64% respondents said that less money should be spent on memorials and functions.
 
 The respondents rated civic amenities gardens, water supply, sanitation, city bus service, etc in the middle range. Not many people gave them excellent or poor rating. While 66% respondents said that water tariff was reasonable, 58% said that property tax was on the higher side.
 
 Some 62% respondents feel that West Nagpur was more developed than other parts of the city, a common grouse of Nagpurians, who live in other parts of the city. 
 
