NEW DELHI: A   on school buses by the enforcement wing of Delhi government’s transport department has revealed that many  , including those of leading schools, are poorly educated and untrained for the job.

 The special drive by the enforcement wing to check if school buses were following permit conditions comes in the wake of the murder of an eight-year-old student of Gurgaon’s  , allegedly by a school bus conductor. “We started the special drive against school buses violating permit conditions from Wednesday. The drive will now continue and will be carried out in different parts of the city,” said KK Dahiya, Special Commissioner (Transport).
 
 “School bus conductors are required to have a licence issued by the transport department and to get the licence, a conductor must be at least educated till Class X and must undergo police verification,” said a transport department official. “We impounded those school buses where we found that the conductors didn’t have a licence as it is a violation of permit conditions,” the official added.
 
 While schools are supposed to deploy trained and relatively educated conductors in their buses transporting students, transport department officials were surprised to find that most of the conductors didn’t even have basic education and had no prior training for becoming a school bus conductor. “The job has huge responsibilities as they are supposed to take care of students while picking up and dropping them to and from the schools,” said the official.
 
 On Wednesday, the enforcement wing impounded 125 buses from 40 schools, which included some of the most prominent schools. The drive was carried out mainly in Dwarka and Rohini and officials plan to target other locations in the coming days. “As exams are going on at the moment, we ensured that the buses were allowed to drop students to the school and only after that did we impound them,” he said.
 
  In 1997, the   had laid down elaborate guidelines for school bus operators, which mandate that no bus used or in the service of an educational institution shall be permitted to operate without a qualified conductor being present at all times.
 
 
