New Delhi: Business activity in the country’s service sector fell for the second consecutive month in December, reflecting a steeper reduction in   as the cash crunch due to the government’s   decision hurt, a survey showed on Wednesday.

 The Nikkei India   business activity index registered 46.8 in December, little-changed from November’s reading of 46.7 and indicating a further contraction in output. The downturn was broad-based by sub-sector, with hotels and restaurants firms the worst performers. The ban on some high value notes ban led to sharpest fall in services new business since September 2013. The service sector accounts for nearly 60% of the economy.
 
 The latest data comes on the back of the survey which showed manufacturing activity contracted in December as output and new orders fell for the first time in one year due to the cash crunch.
 
 “Backlogs continued to rise, while employment decreased fractionally. Panel members widely blamed the deterioration in economic conditions on the rupee demonetisation, with concerns towards the speed of the recovery weighing heavily on sentiment. Meanwhile, input costs rose further, but efforts to boost demand led some firms to lower their charges,” according to the survey.
 
 Data implied that services activity fell in response to a solid and accelerated drop in new business during the month of December. 
 
 The rate of contraction in new work quickened to the fastest since September 2013, with anecdotal evidence suggesting that the decline reflected shortages of money in the country, the survey showed.
 
 “The Indian service economy ended 2016 on a grim note, with the average   activity index reading for the Oct-Dec quarter the lowest since early-2014,” Pollyanna De Lima, economist at IHS Markit said.
 
 “Combined with the manufacturing PMI, data suggest that Indian GDP is set to grow in Q3 FY16/17, but a   is likely. Of concern, business confidence among service providers plunged to one of the lowest in the series’ 11-year history, suggesting that an imminent rebound from the rupee-demonetisation downturn is unlikely,” De Lima said.
 
 
