MUMBAI: A   song by a  ,  , making fun of the condition of Mumbai’s roads and the city’s traffic jams has invited the ire of the Shiv Sena-ruled  , which on Tuesday sent a notice to her residence in Bandra West saying they had found the breeding of the dengue-causing aedes aegypti   at three spots in her flat.

 At the same time, a Shiv Sena corporator, Samadhan Sarvankar, has demanded that a Rs 500 crore defamation case be filed by the BMC against the radio channel for which the song has been recorded.
 
 The song, ‘Mumbai, tula BMC war bharosa nahi ka’ went viral online immediately after it was uploaded last week and has already received 12 lakh views.
 
 The BMC notice was issued in the name of Malishka’s mother Lilly Mendonsa, whose 6th floor apartment at Pali Naka was inspected by civic officials. The notice said the breeding of mosquitoes was detected at three spots, “all being below the petri dish of the plant pot.” 
 
 Assistant municipal commissioner of H-West ward Sharad Ughade told TOI the notice was issued under Section 381 (B) of the Mumbai Municipal Corporation (MMC) Act. “The notice, under the same section, has also been issued to another resident who lives on the first floor of the same building,” Ughade said. According to the notice, BMC will move a prosecution case at the metropolitan court and the penalty for the “offender” could be anywhere between Rs2,000 and Rs10,000.
 
 The issue saw the BJP and Sena at loggerheads again. Ashish Shelar, BJP Mumbai president, came out in full support of the  . “It is brave of @mymalishka 2 come out comfort zone and apply her creativity 2 express Mumbai’s problems. Protected under freedom of speech. Completely unfair that authorities turn up at @mymalishka's house and find faults. Spoke to BMC Commissioner & ward officers to bring peace.”
 
 At the civic standing committee meeting on Wednesday, Sena party leader Yashwant Jadhav alleged the song was politically motivated. “It’s not just mosquito-breeding; we have got to know there are unauthorized constructions too at her place. She can’t keep pointing fingers at the BMC in this manner,” Jadhav claimed.
 
 Samajwadi Party leader Rais Shaikh, who raised a point of order over the issue in the standing committee meeting, said in a democracy one cannot stop anyone from expressing their views. Bandra corporator Asif Zakeria said, “BMC cannot show such intolerance. This appears to be pure vendetta. Instead, it would be better if they had a dialogue with her. This (action) only gives out a message that one dare not speak out against the BMC.”
 
 Malishka put out a tweet on the matter, saying, “Just wanna thank you for all your support you guys are awesome
 
 #Mumbai you are the best. Mala tujhyavar bharosa aahe.” 
 
 Meanwhile, Sena corporator Kishori Pednekar hit out at the RJ by herself coming up with a song having a similar tune. Pednekar’s song asked the RJ to speak sweetly (“goad”) about the BMC. 
 
