COIMBATORE: Amidst sacred chants extolling Lord Shiva, Prime Minister   inaugurated the Mahashivratri celebrations at the Isha Yoga centre and consecrated the 112 ft tall bust of Adiyogi. People from across the globe participated in the event.   said that before the next Mahashivratri, Isha Yoga centre would create 1 million `yoga veeras' who would impart the basic techniques of yoga to 100 people each. “As humans we have always worshipped human elements but never understood why . We looked upon them as a threat. But Adi Yogi taught us how to look inside ourselves,“ Jaggi Vasudev said. “It took us 2.5 years to design Adi Yogi but our boys completed the structure in just eight months,“ he added.

 People from across the world witnessed the event.   from Lucknow said that he had been learning yoga for the past one year and this was his first Mahashivratri at Isha Yoga centre. “I don't have the words to express what I've experienced here. The peace I feel here is simply unbelievable,“ he said. Andrea Carhen, who has travelled all the way from Romania, said she felt incredibly blessed to be part of the event.“I started practising yoga since last September and since then, I have experienced much change in my physical and mental well-being,“ she said.
 
 Singer Kailash Kher and bands such as Nritarutya from Bengaluru enthralled the crowd with their performance. Folk music troupes from several parts of India, entertained the crowds. Meditation and chants of Shiva marked the entire night.Sadhguru was part of the event till the end, dancing and entertaining the crowd in his own way . He also spoke about the real meaning of yoga.
 
 Celebrities such as Juhi Chawla, SBI chairman Arundhati Bhattacharya, Anurag Thakur, Purab Kohli also took part in the event. Tamil Nadu chief minister   , rural administration minister, SP velumani, Minister of State for Road Transport Pon Radhakrishnan, BJP leader H Raja, Governor General of Puducherry , Kiran Bedi and governor of   also participated in the celebrations.
 
