The written word has competition. The new wordless language that exists in the span of a mini face is telling you more than your psychologist ever can! The human face and mind has a million expressions, so how about even half those emojis at the back of your hand? Someone being nasty with you in the office? Diss her back with a ‘catty’ emoji! Want to tell someone you mean more to them than anything else? Go beyond the usual heart, kissy lips and flowers. How about a globe in their hands?

 
 
 That’s fitspiration, emoji-fied. We see a definite need for emojis on the exercise front, to inspire others and express themselves. Just pumped heavy iron and can’t wait to tell your pals about it online? Don’t sweat, pun intended! Gym bragging is a term, and it’s time we had an emoji to shout that achievement out! With ‘exercise anywhere’ being the new mantra and companies making wellness a big part of their mandate, we say it’s high time the fit-savvy had more of these   after a few fave workouts. How about ones for a ‘tree-pose’, doing ‘burpees’ and even for female wrestlers, considering Sakshi Malik won India’s first medal at the Olympics in 2016.
 
 
 It’s legit, people. A study has found that people who share more intimacy, tend to use emojis more. Start communicating, and stop grinning. If all you’ve been doing so far is sending someone hearts and kisses you need to amp up your convo and how! Want to insert some flirty fun into your texts. Bring on a ‘Dreamboat’ and ‘Feeling naughty’ emoji. If you have just had a first date, how about a ‘Let’s meet again’ one to pave the way ahead? Caught in a love triangle? You might need an ‘It isn’t me’ to talk your way out of that! If you’re heading home to your hubby, send a ‘Let’s talk dirty’ one to make the long ride home even nicer. We definitely need one for safe sex, so how about emojis for condoms and pills, too. And seriously, isn’t there a single ‘morning after’ emoji yet?
 
 
 Let’s start right here. And get real. Made it to swipe-in time by a whisker? How about a ‘whew’ for that? And nine out of ten   your cat stole your shoes, you’ve dropped your wallet along the way and are ‘delayed’ trying to look for it? High time we had an emoji for that. Or just cracked the deal you’ve been working on? A simple two–thumbs up isn’t just enough when all you want to do is silently let out a whoop and maybe draw an Usain ‘Bolt’ too! And how about something for falling ill, other than the regular sniffles emoji? Let’s have more emoticons for pulling sickies. While ‘tooth hurts’ is a good enough one, we definitely need a basic ‘feeling the blues’ one too, especially on a Monday. For the record, ‘dog has a nervous breakdown’, ‘got sick from a foodgasm’ and ‘suffering from a broken heart has made it to a list of top 10 excuses, too. Draw on, we say.
 
 To round up the list, there are typically Indian emojis that have been staring us in the face for so long, now. How about a nazar emoji with the ‘nimbu-mirchi’ or one which has a person breaking his/ her knuckles at the sides of the head to ward off an evil gaze. And definitely, one for some desi swag, too, after Raftaar’s Swag Mera Desi has become such a hit! Single ladies (and guys) will agree to a shaadi waali auntyji emoji — for someone who’s more interested in why you aren’t 
 married than her own life.
 
 
 When it comes to food, especially Indian fare, we bet you’re already salivating as you read this. Indian food has certainly gone places; the emojis haven’t. Brad Pitt is a fan of korma and chicken tikka, Julia Roberts loved paneer and dal makhni and Lady Gaga loved India curries so much, she said she wants to go into an Indian food coma! Not just the A-list, New York also has the most dosa outlets than another city. The West has long digested butter chicken and kebabs and is now musing over bharta and chhole-puri. But there isn’t a single emoji for that. Bring on the emojis for good ol’ poha, missal (which has made it to Times Square) and some chhole bhature! And while you’re cooking up those thoughts, save a few emojis for some Italian gnocchi, Oriental stir fry and one for our good ol’ vada pao, too!
 
 
