KOCHI: Even while the railway authorities plan to resume train services to Harbour Terminus soon, a row over providing alternative land to Cochin Port Trust ( ) has put a spoke in the wheel of   RoB project. Delay in the construction of the railway overbridge will lead to traffic bottlenecks in the area and cause hardships for the residents of West Kochi as well as tourists.

 The state government in the 2017-18 budget has earmarked Rs 30 crore for the construction of the ROB. Approvals from various agencies including   and railways also received. But the authorities are yet to start even the preliminary works due to uncertainty over handing over 15 cents owned by the CPT. “The CPT authorities are not ready to part with the land. They have adopted a stand that the land can be handed over only after getting alternative land,” an official associated with the project said. In the absence of ROB, railway will have to close the rail gate at Vathuruthy every time a train passes by. “This will cause hardships for the people in West Kochi. It will be a difficult task for the residents to even take a patient to the hospital in the city centre. Former MP and   leader P M Syed had died as he didn’t get medical care at the right time. The closure of railway gate at Vathuruhty caused delay in shifting him to a major hospital,” said K J Antony, opposition leader, Kochi corporation.
 
 Earlier, Kitco prepared detailed project reports (DPR) of the ROB. “They prepared four reports as various agencies raised objections against first three project reports. The fourth one was accepted by all,” said K J Sohan, former mayor. “Once the project is through, CPT which will be one of the major beneficiaries. The   will help smoothen the movement of container trucks to the port. Moreover, the train services would be helpful for the officials of port to commute. Still, they are not ready to part with the land,” Sohan said. He also added that he would be sending letter to CPT authorities asking them to hand over the land and break the deadlock.
 
 At the same time, CPT authorities said that they are not against handing over the land for the construction of ROB. “We are not against the project. The only condition is that the state should hand over 13 acres at   near Vallarpadom to us. There is a tripartite agreement among CPT, government of India and the state government, which was signed more than three decades ago, for handing over 13 acres to CPT. The state should execute the agreement,” an official with CPT said.
 
 “In 2015, the state convened a meeting to sort out the issues. Then, the government had agreed to hand over the land at Raman Thruruth soon. But land which is required for the development of port is yet to be handed over,” he said.
 
 He also pointed out that the CPT has constructed a flyover in Vallarpadom so as to ensure smooth vehicle movement between Vypeen and the mainland. Once the CPT hands over the land, Kitco will have to modify the DPR.
 
