MOHALI: In Mohali, residents hope for a solution to the need based policy imbroglio after the elections. The policy by   ( ) has been in a state of limbo with no headway being made despite earnest promises.

 The issue has been raised during electioneering. There was even a rumour that the need-based policy has almost been finalized and residents will be allowed to make alterations and additional construction in their houses.
 
 During a meeting with SAD-BJP councillors in 2016 in Mohali, the Punjab chief minister declared that need-based policy will be implemented in the town. He made this declaration in January, May, July and September, 2016. Before this, he made an announcement to the effect in December, 2015. But still, nothing was done.
 
 Geetanjali Sharma, a resident of Phase 2, Mohali said, "We are paying property tax and bills but we cannot alter our own house. Elections have been fought on such issues, but no promise has been fulfilled so far."
 
 Even though the new need-based policy is yet to be implemented, GMADA has been sending notices of violation to residents who have modified houses or industrial area without seeking prior permission from the administration.
 
 A GMADA official said, "We sent a draft of the need-based policy to the state government and were assured that the file is under the active consideration of deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal, who also holds the   portfolio. But the file has not moved since then."
 
 According to the draft policy which was made after a thorough survey of the town and with inputs from local residents, owners of houses and flats would be allowed to make changes in their houses. Vineet Verma, a resident of Phase 7 said, "What is the point of conducting a survey and giving false hopes to residents when the much-awaited need-based policy is lying on the deputy CM's desk for final approval. Now, we have no hope from the administration."
 
 People who make changes in their houses receive a notice from GMADA, besides having to pay fine. The part of the house which violates the policy is demolished.
 
 A GMADA official said, "Almost 80% of the units in Mohali which fall under the jurisdiction of GMADA have been sent notices for violation of building bylaws."
 
 He said the policy is yet to be implemented and before that, no one can be allowed to make changes in their houses without permission. "If they do make changes without permission, we we have to take action as per the law. We cannot close our eyes and sit and see people violating the rules," he asserted.
 
 GMADA recently terminated registries of houses where violations took place and the owners failed to reply to notices.
 
 : What residents want?
 
 As of now, residents are allowed to cover 40% area behind their houses. They want the limit to be increased to 75%.
 
 Independent houses should be allowed to construct second floor
 
 Owners living on the ground floor of LIG, HIG, MIG, and super MIG houses should be allowed construct a room
 
 Those who have modified their houses without permission should be allowed to retain the same
 
