The battle for UP enters its last legs and eastern extremities, which could well prove to be the decisive factor come March 11. With 49 and 40 seats in the two phases remaining, these might be the smallest polling days in the month-long calendar, but given how this part of UP has swung hard one way and then the other in the last few elections, no party would be treating it as less important than some of the larger phases.

 BSP, in particular, has reason to hope it can put up a better show than in some of the other parts of the state, especially central UP. Not only did the party do
 
 extremely well in this part in 2007 and hold its own in 2012, the meltdown it faced in 2014 did not quite have the same impact in the area that polls on Saturday. In these 49 seats, the   had a slightly higher vote share than the   in 2014 though it did not lead in a single segment whereas the SP led in fi ve — thanks to the presence of Mulayam Singh himself in the fray from Azamgarh. With Mulayam no longer a contestant here and with BSP having added to its heft by taking on board bahubali Mukhtar Ansari, Mayawati would hope that her party can position itself as the real challenger to  , particularly among Muslims.
 
 The strategy, of course, carries with it signifi cant risk, that of triggering a counter polarisation among Hindus. That is what the BJP would be hoping will happen. In 2012, SP had won 27 of these 49 seats and the BSP just 9, but in 2014, the BSP fi nished second to the BJP in 24 seats against just 13 for the SP.
 
 Even accounting for the fi ve seats in which SP led thanks to Mulayam, it made the BSP the main contender to the BJP here. The saffron party swept, winning 43 of the 49 seats.
 
 The   presence both in 2012 and 2014 was really marginal with vote shares of 9.1% and 6.3% respectively. In fact, in 2014, the party led in just one assembly segment despite a sitting Union minister, RPN Singh, contesting from Kushi Nagar constituency.
 
 In 2012, smaller outfi ts like the Qaumi Ekta Dal of Ansari had cornered a sizeable chunk of votes with “others and Independents” getting nearly 22%.
 
 That scenario is unlikely to be repeated now and the party that best consolidates these scattered voters might well have the edge.
 
