HYDERABAD: Despite unrecognized and unaffiliated junior colleges mushrooming in the city,   (TSBIE) did not have the time or inclination to keep vigil. As many as 200 junior colleges in the city flout rules with impunity, function without TSBIE affiliation and admit more students than approved, say educationists. And when it’s time for exams, these colleges enrol students in other colleges for writing exams.

 For instance, Sri  , without mandatory TSBIE affiliation, was admitting students and offering classes for the past two years and has more than 240 students on its rolls. Even as the college flouted rules with impunity and put future of students at risk, TSBIE’s Regional Inspection Officer (now District Inspection Officer) for Ranga Reddy district, did not act against the college brass. Those vested with responsibility to check compliance of junior colleges say their hands are full. “We have to monitor more than 230 colleges, permitted by TSBIE, and we don’t have enough man power,” said Mahmood Ali, district inspection officer, Ranga Reddy district.
 
 Instead of taking action against BIE officials, who allowed illegal colleges to function, deputy chief minister Kadiyam Srihari on Wednesday blamed parents for admitting children in colleges, without checking for recognition. But parents allege BIE officials are equally responsible for allowing colleges to flourish and cheat the gullible.
 
 “There is no information to verify affiliation on the TSBIE website. Many officers are hand in glove with college managements like Sri Vasavi Junior College. The government must also initiate action against these officers,” said Rotte Prahalad, a resident of Saroornagar.
 
 Sources said though state government put in place stringent affiliation rules, which needs annual renewal, college managements manage to run campuses throwing norms to the wind. It is a known fact that many corporate colleges seek TSBIE affiliation for some branches, but run additional unrecognised branches and induct more students. And they are then enrolled through other colleges that have affiliation, but do not have full strength. Norms suggest that BIE can admit 88 students in each section of a class and more students may be allowed with more facilities and faculty. Some colleges, permitted in rural areas, are instead moved to the city.
 
 Jolted into action after the Vasavi episode, TSBIE secretary A Ashok said the Board will post a list of affiliated colleges on its website and create awareness among parents not to admit children in unrecognized and unaffiliated colleges.
 
 
