AGRA: An   in geography department of  , Agra was allegedly attacked with   by unknown motor-bike borne assailants, numbering four, while he was on his way to college on Tuesday morning in his car.

  - currently the senior superintendent examination controller of RBS College - was admitted in a private hospital follwing a severe head injury.
 
 The incident took place at around 8am near Bharatpur-Agra road, just 150 meters away from his residence Ansal Courtyard, Shashtripuram of Sikandra police jurisdiction.
 
 Ramesh Jha, a close friend of Tiwari who took him the hospital, said, “On Monday, Tiwari was given death threat by his colleague Pushpendar Singh after few students were caught cheating in an examination. Singh is the proctor of the RBS College. He was heading for college in his car when he was waylaid by motor-bike borne assailants, who dragged him out of the vehicle and assaulted him with iron rods.”
 
 In a written complaint filed by Tiwari to Sikandra police, he had alleged that Singh’s hired goons attacked him with an intention to murder.
 
 V S Tiwari, brother of the victim, claimed, “He paid price for being honest. He was attacked, because he stood against the illegal means used by students and some teachers during the examination to clear the paper.”
 
 Speaking on the matter, principal of the college Anupam Goel said, “It’s very unfortunate that Tiwari was attacked, he is one of the respected faculty members in our college. Who attacked him is a police investigation matter, I cannot comment.”
 
 When questioned about the alleged death threat given by college proctor to examination controller during LLB examination, Goel said, “On Monday, Tiwari caught two students while they were cheating in the examination. When proctor Pushpendar Singh came to know about the incident, he asked Tiwari to book the two and take appropriate action, but examination controller refused and asked to pardon the students. Their dispute was brought into my knowledge, but I’m not aware of any death threat to Tiwari by Singh.”
 
 Pushpendar Singh is the office-bearer of Agra University Teachers Association.
 
 Agra University had made RBS College the nodal centre to conduct LLB and BA examination. On Monday, first paper was conducted in the between the quarrel of two professors. The examination will be conducted till October 21.
 
 Based on the written complaint of Tiwari, station officer Rajesh Kumar Pandey of Sikandra ordered to file an FIR.
 
