MOHALIi: The six-year-old boy, whose body was found with his throat slit near Jhungian in   on January 24, was killed after he accidentally caught his teenage sister in a compromising position with his 19-year-old boyfriend at a secluded spot, police said on Wednesday after arresting the two.

 Cops said the sister of the victim and her boyfriend Vipin Kumar, a night watchman, murdered Rahul on January 23 evening. He was playing near the bushes and ventured deeper into the woods only to find his sister and Vipin, his neighbour, together. As the two accused saw Rahul, one of them gagged his mouth to stop him from screaming. Later, Vipin hit Rahul on the head with bricks and stones. When Rahul became unconscious, the accused used a saw to cut his throat, said police sources. The two accused after killing the kid dumped the body in the bushes. 
 
 The two then started to search for the "missing" child along with his family members. They even took part in condolence meetings the family had organized. When the police started to ask specific questions regarding the child after detaining them, the two broke down. Vipin, when questioned about his location on January 23, failed to describe the sequence of events. As the cops applied pressure, Vipin confessed to his crime, police said. 
 
 The two were booked under sections 34, 302 and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) 
 
 
 
 
 Six-year-old boy was found murdered with his throat slit near an under-construction building on   road on January 24
 
 Victim was the son of a migrant labourer hailing from Madhya Pradesh and staying in the under-construction building
 
 The family had searched for him on the night of January 23 and even made announcements from village gurdwara 
 
 The two accused, sister of the victim and her 19-year-old boyfriend, used a saw to kill him, said police sources
 
 The two accused even pretended to search for the "missing" child along with his family members and took part in condolence meets
 
 Police recovered few strands of hair from the fist of the child
 
