NAGPUR: Raunak   paid heavy price for a minor miscalculation in the mid-game on Saturday. Having suffered a heartbreak defeat in the 9th and final round of the first edition of the Sharjah Masters International Chess Championship, the 11-year-old missed his maiden International Master (IM) norm by just a point.

 City's youngest Fide Master (FM), who was a win away from bagging his first IM norm, failed to utilize his opening advantage with the white pieces against higher ranked   of Uzbekistan. 
 
 Much like   both the other city players - FM   and 14-year-old Sankalp Gupta - went down fighting in the final round to give a disappointing end to their campaign. Amravati's  , however, did well to hold experienced Indian Grandmaster MR   and finish the nine-round event collecting 4.5 points.
 
 The 30th board battle between Raunak and Uzbekistan's Nodirbek saw the Kings Pawn opening move by the city lad. In the mid-game, however, Raunak's attacking approach made him a piece down. Still eyeing a win, Raunak tried many tactical moves but the seasoned Uzbekistan campaigner utilized his advantage well to emerge victorious. With a Bishop against the Kinghts of Nodirbek, Raunak resigned in the 55th move.
 
 Happy with the overall performance of his ward, Raunak's coach and region's first GM Swapnil Dhopade said, "Overall Raunak played really well in the tournament and the IM norm could have been an icing on the cake. He missed the norm by a whisker and I am optimistic that Raunak will achieve it soon."
 
 Raunak gained 61 elo points and finished the event with five points at the 68th position.
 
 Similarly, Akash Thakur lost against Indian IM Stany GA on the 23rd board. Replying to the Kings Pawn opening of Thakur, the Indian IM opted for the regular Sicilian defence to register victory in just 36 moves. With five points, Thakur finished the meet at the 74th spot.
 
 On the 119th board, Sankalp found higher ranked IM Viani Antonio Dcunha too tough to handle and finish the event with four points.
 
 Amravati's Pawan Dodeja, however, made his presence felt on the concluding day. Making most of his opening advantage with the white pieces, Dodeja forced Indian GM Lalith Babu to share the points. With a couple of wins and five draws, Dodeja finished with 4.5 points.
 
