JODHPUR: In a  , an Army   drowned in famous   here on the intervening night of March 12 and 13. 

 Defence spokesperson Lt Col Manish Ojha said, the Army has ordered a Court of Inquiry into the accident. 
 
 Police officials said that the victim Major Sanjay Kumar Dwivedi, posted at the Signal Corps here, had gone to a heritage hotel in the old city on the night of March 12 along with two more of his colleagues. 
 
 According to SHO (Sadar Kotwali) Indra Singh, Major Sanjay Dwivedi (28) belonged to Dehradun and was posted at the Signal Regiment of the Army at Jodhpur.
 
 “After watching Holi, they had dinner at the guest house. Later, they headed for the stepwell adjacent the guest house at about 12.30 am,” Singh said.
 
 While all the three were savouring the beauty of the stepwell on its steps, Dwivedi suddenly lost his balance over the steps, purportedly during taking a selfie, and fell into the water.
 
 While various reports are doing the rounds, some suggest that the Major was trying to click a selfie leading to his losing balance and falling into the stepwell while as per yet another report, a Captain also had fallen into the stepwell but managed to escape. The body of 28-year-old Major Sanjay Kumar Dwivedi could be retrieved after 12 hours from the old stepwell. Police got the information post midnight. 
 
 “Locals rushed for help when his friends raised an alarm but to no avail. Army divers were finally roped into rescue him but were able to retrieve the Major’s body from the stepwell on March 13 afternoon,” said a cop adding that the family of the victim was informed in Dehradun.
 
 Finally, his body could be recovered from about 150 feet depth on Monday afternoon with injury marks on head etc.”, said the official adding that possibly because of this injury, he could not swim out of the water and drowned.
 
 His family members arrived Jodhpur on Monday night after which the body was sent for the   in Tuesday morning before being handed over to his family, who left with the body on Tuesday afternoon.
 
 
