GALLE: Instead of blaming his team for the humiliating defeat in the first Test, Sri Lanka's makeshift skipper   chose to credit India for their clinical performance.

 “Obviously, when you lose a game, you're disappointed. But having said that, all credit to India for the way they played. They played outstanding cricket in all the three departments. They deserve all the credit,” said Herath.
 
 Worryingly for the hosts, the experienced left-arm spinner injured his middle finger while fielding at cover on Friday, and didn't come out to bat as Sri Lanka slipped to the huge loss on Saturday. It means that unless Herath recovers in time, the Lankans may not just lose their strike bowler, but may also have to find another captain with two Tests still to go in this series. “We had an x-ray yesterday .It doesn't show any fracture. But I had a fracture three years ago in the same area and that's the reason there's a bit of swelling and soreness. Hopefully over the next few days it will get better,” he said.
 
 The injury which really put Sri Lanka behind the eight ball from Day One was the one to in-form batsman Asela Gu naratne. Gunaratne broke his hand in three places while trying to take Shikhar Dhawan's catch in the first innings. “It was a massive blow for us. He's been scoring lot of runs for us in the last few months. He wasn't available to bat or bowl and that was a huge blow for us. Hopefully we will bounce back well in the second Test,” rued the veteran bowler.
 
 One factor which cost the hosts was the unusually flat nature of the pitch, which has traditionally offered far more to the spinners. The lack of turn blunted Herath's effectiveness on a wicket where he's thrived on over the years.
 
 “I told before the game too, that this wicket will help batsmen a lot. Having said that, I expected the spinners to come into the equation by the fourth or fifth day, but this wicket didn't have much help for spinners. We expect a bit of turn in Galle. However, there's no point in blaming anyone after you lose. The plain truth is that we didn't play well, and we're to be blamed,” Herath felt. “We should've bowled better. The other point is that most of our batsmen got close to the three-figure mark and got out.”
 
