JAISALMER:   (BSF) has begun its   along the  . The exercise which   will continue till January 28.

 Border districts and outposts of Sri Ganganganagar, Hindumalkot border, Jaisalmer, Bikaner and Barmer will see BSF in action and coordination with the Army, Indian Air Force and the state police. During these two weeks, there shall be intense 24-hour patrolling along the international border by BSF, both on vehicles and camels.
 
 BSF Rajasthan Frontier DIG Ravi Gandhi said that there is heavy fog at the international border, and looking to this BSF has begun its operations. Vehicle and foot patrolling will be increased and footprints that are checked twice a day will be increased to thrice a day. Similarly, loopholes in the border security system have been plugged.
 
 Gandhi said that BSF is maintaining strict vigil, as they are getting continuous warnings about infiltration from intelligence agencies.
 
 Gandhi said that during the exercise, 20-30% additional security personnel have been deployed at sensitive places that are covered by heavy fog.
 
 Security tightened at Raj border following intel report
 
 Jatinder Tur
 
 Jodhpur: As per highly placed officials, there is an increased threat perception of attacks, similar to Uri and Pathankot air base, on military and paramilitary bases in Rajasthan. BSF is on high alert.
 
 Officials said that the latest intelligence inputs hint at the possibility of infiltration bids along more than 1,000 km long international border in Rajasthan from the militant bases in southern Punjab in Pakistan.
 
 “We got information that the infiltrators active in Bahawalpur and Rahim Yar Khan in Pakistan are planning to intrude into the Indian territory from Rajasthan border. After the Pathankot attack, borders in Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir were on high alert and scanned thoroughly. That makes Rajasthan an easier bid for these elements trying to sneak into the Indian territory as per the intelligence inputs from BSF and other central and state agencies”, said an official.
 
 Apart from the tightened vigil, Operation Alert Winters will also furnish the technical and operational details with respect to the requirements for installation of high resolution censors, laser walls and early warning surveillance systems, all a part of BSF's technology-oriented upgrading plan.
 
 
