BENGALURU: A 22-year-old undergraduate student at the   was sexually harassed allegedly by a security guard on the campus in the early hours of Thursday.

 The student managed to escape from the clutches of Gautham Raj, who allegedly held her hand and tried to misbehave with her near the library. The institute sacked Raj and ordered a detailed investigation into the incident.
 
  police registered a case based on the complaint lodged by the student. "We've arrested Raj, a private security guard deployed on the   campus on contract. The accused was brought before the court on Friday, and remanded in judicial custody," an investigating officer said.
 
 The student complained to the   at IISc on Thursday and lodged a complaint with police hours later. Police registered a case of sexual harassment under IPC Section 354A(2) for seeking sexual favours.
 
 "The accused, if found guilty, with face up to three years in jail and a fine," a police officer said.
 
 The complaint said the student was in the IISc library around 12.20am on Thursday , when Raj asked her to come out as he wanted to talk to her.She started walking with him.They approached a reference room, which was dark.
 
 She sensed something amiss and asked him to switch on the light. Instead, he held her hand and asked her to kiss him. She walked out quickly, reached her hostel room and called her brother, also a student on the campus, and informed him about the guard's misbehaviour.
 
 Her brother and his friend rushed to the hostel and comforted her. The brother confronted Raj about his misbehaviour. Initially, Raj denied the allegation, but later confessed to it.
 
 M R  , security officer at IISc, said the student approached the Internal Committee for Sexual Harassment on Thursday and complained against the guard.
 
 IISc hired Gauthan on contract from a security agency a few years ago. It told the agency to sack him from service. The company considered the notice serious and dismissed the accused on Thursday.
 
