NEW DELHI: The government decided on Wednesday to transfer the iconic   to the urban development ministry, setting the stage for conversion of the four-acre plot next to Connaught Place into a convention centre or government housing or office complex. 

 The 150-room ITDC property in Lutyens’ Delhi was a landmark of sorts, a symbol of an era when governments were supposed to be doing everything, from running hotels to making bread and soft drinks. 
 
 Despite its dream location, Janpath failed to become a hot destination. Although it would get business from the government, like being used as a transit accommodation for newly elected members of  , it proved to be a drain on the exchequer and was among ITDC properties that the government wanted to take up for “disinvestment”. Unlike its neighbours belonging to ITDC, Ashok Yatri Niwas and Kanishka, which were sold under the Vajpayee government, it escaped being put on the block because of the NDA’s defeat in 2004. 
 
 The property can be considered for construction of government offices and similar purposes which would save government funds spent in hiring of government offices,” an official statement after a meeting of the cabinet committee on economic affairs said. Sources, however, said there was a suggestion to use the land for a general pool housing scheme for government officers and employees. 
 
 A section within the government is, however, not inclined in favour of this proposal, arguing that the hotel is located on prime land, adjacent to at least two other five-star hotels — Le Meridien and Shangri-La — apart from being a stone’s throw from the central shopping district. Their argument is that the plot should be used to construct a convention centre, something that is in short supply in central Delhi. Apart from Vigyan Bhavan, the venue for many official events, only ITDC’s   in   has a large hall. 
 
 Government agencies have been working to build such facilities that can host international events and work is underway in   as well as on a new facility in Dwarka, which is quite some distance away. In any case, the proposed convention and exhibition centre in Dwarka is still on the drawing board. Originally, like several ITDC properties that are on the “disinvestment” list, the government had hoped to sell Janpath Hotel. 
 
 Sources said that there was a strong school of thought that the hotel could be an attractive proposition to bidders looking at a budget hotel in central Delhi. The reluctance of officers to go for strategic sale to a private player — fearing allegations of wrongdoing later — seems to have prompted the government to opt for a “safer” strategy. “The land belongs to the urban development ministry,” said a source. Officials said the land had been given on lease to ITDC. “Details of implementation of the project, land usages etc would be taken by a committee of secretaries to be constituted under the chairmanship of the Cabinet secretary,” a statement said. In addition, the hotel building, which has been found to be “unserviceable, in distressed condition and deficit in the context of seismic requirements” will undergo rehabilitation.
 
