It wasn’t by accident or epiphany that an automobile manufacturing corporation and the arts became kindred spirits. Ahead of the 7th  , chairman and managing director of the  ,   sitting in his cavernous office in Colaba, explains: “It was a purposeful and well-thought idea linked to our corporate credo – to drive positive change and enable people and communities across the world to rise.”

 The conversation that follows is peppered with the expression ‘rise’, a winning mantra in the Mahindra lexicon after it became word buddies with their products and services in 2009 to knit aspirations of consumers with their cultural fabric.
 
 Over the years, the multinational conglomerate has played a key role in setting cultural agendas and discovering new ground across communities in the space of art and culture – be it the blues festival that has seen a meteoric rise, the decade-old Mahindra Excellence in Theatre Awards (META) that brought a renewed sense of dedication to theatre, the   aimed at bringing back Lucknowi tehzeeb or the recently launched Kabira Festival to reflect on equality and dignity in a time of division.
 
 While the group’s cultural patina has been strongly linked to their aspiration to become one of the world’s 50 most admired brands, it wasn't just a “transactional” motive; Mahindra is quick to point out. “We are admired today not only because of our geographical reach but also because of our empathy with consumers. You cannot ignore the cultural life of a consumer if you want to reach that point where one believes that you are interested in their lives. Mahindra co-creates with its consumers, authentic cultural movements that have a deeper connection,” he says, emphasizing on the weight of not just the pocketbook but the quality of life that gives the brand its distinct identity.
 
 There are several ways in which their priorities have made way for the arts. The Kabira Festival launched in Varanasi last November for instance, was born out of a need to unify people. “It was a time in the world when divisions were becoming more evident than links between people. Kabir, the poet was a humanist who united people and we felt that he would be the ideal and iconic artform to showcase and rise above our thoughts,” explains Mahindra. 
 
 If META’s purpose was to rejuvenate and reintroduce dominant art forms that were withering away, the blues festival helped bridge blues patrons from the Mississippi to Mumbai. “Our strongest customers come from the area that spawned the blues. By propagating a dying artform which belongs to America and making it big in Asia, you establish a deeper connect,” he says. “Today, we’re not just a tractor company from another country but an integral part of the American landscape,” which Mahindra believes will win plaudits under the new regime for being identifiable. “A large company has the capability of transforming an artform or cultural activity and putting it on the centrestage,” believes Mahindra who has a robust team, consistently looking out for neglected art and emerging talents.
 
 Yet, it is philanthropy that continues to define corporate social responsibility in India. “See, we’re not the only voice in the wilderness. The most robust brands for the future are those creating mutual empathy with people,” stresses Mahindra when quizzed on why the larger corporate community has not been able to embrace the cultural narratives of the country and take it to new heights. 
 
 But for those keen on articulating their business philosophy through the arts, he has a message. “There is no better way to build a brand and express who you are than to embrace the arts. Despite digital technology, you cannot reach out only virtually unless you have an art that links you. So, find an art form that is authentically aligned to your values and that will become a true espousal of the art and mean something to your consumers, too.” 
 
 Mahindra’s myriad interests -- films, photography, blues, bungee jumping and kabaddi -- may have stood him in good stead but the brand’s culture trip has been beyond his personal predilection, he maintains. “My daughter is a wannabe filmmaker and hopefully the genes have been passed on. I’m happy to be part of the audience!” he signs off.
 
 
