LUCKNOW: District administration and police machinery across UP will keep a vigil on roads, highways and borders where maximum instances of   have been reported in five years. 

 The chief secretary on Friday issued orders to DMs and senior police officials to make frequent inspections of these areas to check illegal slaughtering of cattle. Police will look into records and trace convicts of   smuggling. The officials have been asked to check licensed slaughterhouses. 
 
 The police will also, with the help of intelligence system, ensure that carcasses are not cut at illegal slaughterhouses. “If such activities are traced, legal action should be taken. 
 
 Details regarding cattle smuggling activities in rural areas should be daily compiled in village crime notebook,” the chief secretary ordered. The police have been asked to be more vigilant at weekly and monthly cattle markets being organised in every district to ensure that the cattle are being transported and sold as per norms. 
 
 Details about cattle traders will also be compiled. Officials need to identify shelter homes in every district to protect cattle from activities like smuggling and slaughtering, says the order. 
 
 Lucknow: District administration and police machinery across UP will keep a vigil on roads, highways and borders where maximum instances of cattle smuggling have been reported in five years. 
 
 The chief secretary on Friday issued orders to DMs and senior police officials to make frequent inspections of these areas to check illegal slaughtering of cattle.
 
 Police will look into records and trace convicts of cattle smuggling. The chief secretary has issued orders to reopen history-sheets and take strict action against the suspects. The officials have been asked to frequently check licensed slaughterhouses and ensure there is no illegal slaughtering. 
 
 The police will also, with the help of intelligence system, ensure that carcasses are not cut at illegal slaughterhouses. “If such activities are traced, legal action should be immediately taken. Details regarding cattle smuggling activities in rural areas should be daily compiled in village crime notebook,” the chief secretary ordered.
 
 The police have been asked to be more vigilant at weekly and monthly cattle markets being organised in every district to ensure that the cattle are being transported and sold as per norms. Details about cattle traders will also be compiled. As per UP Prevention of Cow Slaughter Act, 1955, section (5), the cows cannot be transported without the permission of animal husbandry officer and each animal should be provided two square metre space for standing and a rest of 10 minutes after every one hour standing.
 
 Officials need to identify shelter homes in every district to protect cattle from activities like smuggling and slaughtering, says the order. The chief secretary has emphasised on various laws that will govern the government’s drive against illegal slaughtering of cattle like UP Prevention of Cow Slaughter Act 1955, Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act 1960, Transport of Animals, Rules 1978 and Slaughter House Rules 2001.
 
 
