Manoj Kumar Paswan, a Dalit student from Nawada district in Bihar, has lived a hard life, coming as he does from a poor marginal farmer family. He and his family saw a ray of hope after he got a   in 2016 to get a degree in computer applications from a college in Nagpur. 

 One year on, he is back to square one. The promised money from the central government’s  , which was to be routed directly to his college, has not materialized. He is back in the village, repeatedly visiting the welfare office, pleading for a solution. “My seniors in college got the scholarship. But mine never came. The college said there are some issues, we are trying to sort them out. How can I continue like this? I came back home to pursue the matter with the welfare officer here,” he told TOI from Nawada. 
 
 His is not an exceptional case, as revealed by data collected by the Dalit advocacy group, National Campaign for Dalit & Human Rights (NCDHR). In response to a complaint made by them, the social justice ministry told them that they had released nearly Rs 5,000 crore in 2015-16 and 2016-17 but the states had demanded almost double of that, Rs 9,120.56 crore. “What has happened is that in the beginning, states continued to provide scholarships to Dalit students but the central govt put a squeeze. Finally, the pipeline dried up and the students were left high and dry. Colleges started demanding fees from the students or told them to quit. Thousands have been affected by this tragedy,” said Paul Diwakar of NCDHR. 
 
 The Post Matric Scholarship is given by the Centre to an estimated 65 lakh Dalit and 20 lakh tribal students in order to assist them to get higher education. It is routed through the state governments, who also chip in with a small amount. Funds are directly transferred to colleges after authentication. Ayyamperumal, a Dalit student from Perambalur district in Tamil Nadu, told TOI that he faced constant trouble and harassment in the three years he got the scholarship while doing his bachelors at Trichy. “I had to go up to the District Collector with complaints of non-payment. People used to ridicule me, saying ‘a Paraya boy wants to become educated!’ but I vowed to get my right,” he told TOI. 
 
 Although the   has not officially given out latest data but they too were facing a similar squeeze last year. In response to an RTI query by NCDHR, the ministry said as opposed to an anticipated expenditure of Rs 1,608 crore by states in 2015-16, the ministry released Rs 834.5 crore, leaving a deficit of Rs 773 crore. 
 
 Colleges too are duping students of scholarships, as revealed by the case of Christ Institute of Technology in Puducherry, which lured 120 poor Dalit students from Bihar promising free education and boarding based on scholarships from the government. After a few months, they stopped all facilities and asked students to pay up or quit. 
 
 Ayyamperumal confirmed that some colleges ask students to deposit fees first, assuring reimbursement after scholarship comes in. But they refuse to pay up when the amount gets transferred.
 
