NEW DELHI: A major proportion of the students in   run by the   corporations in Delhi are first-generation learners, children of daily-wage earners, domestic helps and migrant labourers. But the infrastructural and educational support they need to pitch them into the mainstream — the objective of their education — are sorely missing in their schools. It isn’t surprising then that many are forced to drop out before they reach higher classes.

 The parents of these children are, of course, thankful that their children are getting an education of sorts. Despite the mass campaigns, the mostly illiterate families are not even aware they can admit children in   schools under the 25% EWS quotas. “My son is learning something,” asserted Ram Satish, mother of a Class 1 student in north Delhi. She does not know what he is taught in school, and sends her son to a tutor to help him with his homework.
 
 Asha Devi too is ignorant of what her daughter Jayanti, another Class 1 student, learns in school. “I work all day and have no idea what goes on in the school,” Devi explained. Rekha, Jayanti’s older sister, however, said, “I do check her copybooks, but there is little in them. The teachers don’t teach these kids, so they have to be sent to someone to help them pass the exams.” The 15-year-old herself dropped out of a corporation school a few years ago to augment the family income.
 
 Jyoti, a Class V student appearing for her annual maths exam recently, was tested on addition and subtraction and reading the time. In a private school, a student in the same class faces questions on geometry, factors and multiples. Inexplicably, these municipal school students are expected to reach the prescribed CBSE level by the time they reach Class X.
 
 Data from the three municipal corporations reveal that more than 35,000 children dropped out from primary schools in the last one year. Ambarish Rai of   said this can be attributed to the failing infrastructure. “A lot of these children are not attended to properly. They are stuffed into overflowing classes, do not get their books or uniforms in time, and so eventually drop out of school,” he opined.
 
 Shortage of teachers is also a reason behind the high dropout rate, though the corporations claim vacancies have been filled with contract teachers. “Contract teachers are not at a par with trained teachers,” Rai countered. This means that the education of first-generation learners is left in the hands of some permanent but over-worked and many but untrained teachers.
 
 Many of the parents that TOI talked to are migrants from far-flung parts of UP, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh. They have come to Delhi dreaming of a better future, but are yet to realise that the system may be failing their kids.
 
 
