VADODARA: Within minutes of the annual senate meeting of   ( ) on Thursday, major ruckus took place between members of the ruling group in the university and  .

 Trouble began with the general secretary (GS) and vice-president (VP) of   ( ), who are also members of the senate, raising the issue of misbehaviour of the university’s security and vigilance staff with them on February 28.
 
 After registrar (OSD) Neerja Jaiswal read out condolence messages of former senate members who passed away in the past year, GS Hitesh Batra and VP Priyanka Patel, rushed to floor of the hall making representations to the vice-chancellor professor Parimal Vyas.
 
 When the ruling group members asked them to go to their place and speak, both, Batra and Patel sat on the floor and refused to move. Recently elected senate member, Mehul Lakhani, also went to the floor and asked them to go to their seats. Situation aggravated when Kapil Joshi, representing Faculty of Social Work, rushed to support Batra and Patel.
 
 Meanwhile, Jigar Inamdar, recently elected from donors category, too kept on saying that whatever was happening was not correct. But later he too rushed to the floor and seeing this, Congress member Narendra Rawat also did so to support Batra and Patel. This aggravated the situation and Batra used foul language calling senate members as ‘chor’.
 
 Inamdar lost his cool and banged two glasses on the desk, breaking them and another member Hasmukh Vaghela also did the same. Later, Inamdar used foul language for Batra that went unnoticed in the confusion. Dinesh Yadav, who was standing near Inamdar, gagged him with his hand to ensure that the situation does not worsen.
 
 Members too pushed each other and the melee continued for almost an hour. Eventually, chancellor Shubhanginiraje Gaekwad intervened ensuring that the situation cooled down. She condemned the words used by Batra and asked him to apologise to the senate members which he did. The senate meeting then continued peacefully.
 
