MAPUSA: In a gruesome   that has sent shock waves across the state, the charred remains of a   in her 20s was found at Bamon Waddo,   in North Goa on Friday morning. North Goa superintendent of police Karthik Kashyap told TOI that police suspected the woman was an Indian.

 “We suspect she was murdered and her body burnt to destroy her identity. At least five to 10 litres of petrol must have been used to burn her body and it must have been done between2am and 5am,” he said.
 
 Police have recovered the cap of what they suspect to be a kerosene bottle. They also retrieved a lighter from the spot. 
 
 Kashyap said they have no specific leads on the case.
 
  “Our first challenge is to identify the body. Post mortem will be conducted on Saturday and it can throw more light on the case,” he said.
 
 The charred remains of the woman were found at 7am when locals — one person out for his morning walk and a bread vendor — found stray dogs playing with human body parts. They immediately informed the police control room, who intimated the Anjuna police.
 
 The area where the body was found is near a football ground. One leg, mangled by stray dogs, was found a few metres way from an old house, police said.
 
 Kashyap said the area, besides serving as a clandestine meeting point for couples, is known for antisocial activities, including people gathering to drink liquor.
 
 There is no missing complaint registered in any police station in North Goa, Kashyap said. “As per old missing reports in police stations in North Goa, the body does not match the description of any of the missing persons,” he said.
 
 Police sources said the woman may have been murdered at another place and brought to the spot later to be burnt. They said from the initial findings, it is suspected that the woman could be in the 20-30 age group and of 160-165cm height.
 
 Police said the body has a ring on a toe and a finger and a gold chain around the neck. On the wrist is the remains of a sacred thread usually worn by Hindus and a bangle, and draped across the body is what is suspected to be remains of a dupatta.
 
 “We have brought in a dog squad, fingerprint experts and forensic doctors to examine the body,” Kashyap said. Police inspector Sanjiv Dalvi and his team is investigating the case, while deputy inspector general of police Rupinder Kumar also visited the crime spot.
 
 Anjuna police conducted the panchanama and sent the body for post mortem to Goa Medical College and Hospital. Police have registered an offence under section 302 (murder) and section 201 (destruction of evidence) against unidentified persons. 
 
