NAVI MUMBAI: On the final day of  , over 10,000 people hit the vehicle-free stretch of Palm  . Many dignitaries, too, hit the venue and enjoyed the record number of activities that were on offer. The event will be back again in summer.

 Among the guests were Belapur MLA Manda Mhatre, Panvel MLA Prashant Thakur, NMMC chief Tukaram Mundhe and deputy commissioner of police  . “Kids wait eagerly for Sundays to hit the Happy Streets’ venue and soak in the activities. Happy Streets has become a household name in the city,” said Mhatre.
 
 Mundhe said, “This initiative is to encourage residents imbibe walking and cycling, to help reduce air pollution and curb carbon footprint. Soon, we will make city roads safe for walking with more footpaths set to roll out.”
 
 Thakur stressed on Kharghar getting its due by holding Happy Streets next season.
 
 Top NMMC officials monitored the stalls put up by the civic staff to create awareness on various civic services for residents to make the city smart. The civic health wing had its stall to advocate about measures to be taken to control malaria, dengue and tuberculosis.
 
 E-connect of the civic body was also highlighted here. The NMMC garden department got its mobile van of fruits and flowering plants to stress on the need of a green city. Waste segregation formula was given to the visitors and plastic ban initiative was emphasized.
 
 “We got to know about various citizen-friendly schemes of NMMC,” said Bhushan Patil, a Nerul resident.
 
 A special yoga session was arranged for women at the mentoring corner with street arts and poster competition on the subject, which received an overwhelming response.
 
 The grand finale of talent hunt competition of   was a show-stealer. The winners were awarded trophies and gifts. “The city is full of talented people. Given a chance, these people can bring laurels for Navi Mumbai. We will have more such competitions in the coming seasons,” said  , head of Prajapati Group.
 
 Many participants let their hair down at the zumba and bokwa arena at the TOI main stage. Happy Streets is an initiative of NMMC and city traffic police, powered by Prajapati Developers and supported by TOI.
 
 
