AHMEDABAD: A large number of highly educated candidates including engineers, double graduates, and research scholars have applied for a job for which passing the class XII is the minimum qualification — the job of a lok rakshak jawan (LRJ). LRJs are recruited on fixed pay of Rs 11,300 and have to wait for five years before they are inducted into the   as constables. For those five years, they don’t get the perks other policemen do, not even privilege leave or casual leave. All they are entitled to is four days off per month.

 The lack of job opportunities seems to be the primary reason for highly qualified candidates trying to secure the modest LRJ posts. Harshad Jadav, 33, is one of the aspirants who has cleared the written examination. He has MCom and LLB degrees. 
 
 “I lost my father when I was three months old,” he said. “My mother had a difficult time making ends meet while ensuring that I got educated. I still don’t have a job and decided to try my luck with the police.”
 
 In the second round of recruitment, for 17,532 posts of armed and unarmed   and other opening — representing the biggest recruitment drive for the state police — 5.79 lakh youths had applied of whom 1.34 lakh cleared the written examination.  , the chairman of  , told TOI that of the top 10 candidates clearing the written examination, four — including the topper — hold engineering degrees. “We have received a large number of applications from qualified candidates this time,” he said. “The exact qualifications of successful candidates will be known only after the completion of the selection process.” 
 
 Experts say the phenomenon is complex. “Earlier, qualified candidates used to vie for the posts of DSPs in direct selection,” said a senior state police official. “Over the past seven years, we have seen such candidates getting jobs of sub-inspectors. Now candidates of that level are taking the constable route to gain entry. It is not uncommon for many such candidates to later appear in examinations to get into higher ranks. Some clear the exams.”
 
 Other experts see the trend as a reflection of the desperation to get a government job. “The state that always celebrated entrepreneurial spirit has for the past decade seen an unprecedented number of applications for government jobs at any position,” said another official. “One can also see diversity in terms of caste and social classes involved. Now women, with the rule of 33% reservations in place, also form a large chunk of aspirants — something which was not seen earlier.”
 
