MANGALURU: A Mangaluru-based cardiologist was allegedly  ,   and thrashed before he was fleeced of Rs 14 lakh via an online transaction by a gang of seven members. Police have arrested three persons in connection with the case so far. 

 The doctor filed a complaint with police almost a week after the incident, which occurred on May 3. Other accused, including a woman, are absconding.
 
 Police said one of the accused, Narayana Salian of Someshwar was allegedly involved in an attempt to murder former don Muthappa Rai. Narayana Salian and Ullal residents Muhammed Ranji and Sadiq have allegedly fleeced the doctor with the help of a woman. Police said Muhammed Ranji was a close friend of the doctor. Ranji came to know that the doctor, along with his colleagues, was looking to develop housing plots. Ranji also knew that the doctor, a successful professional, had amassed huge wealth over the years.
 
 On May 3, around 8.30am, Ranji along with his friend Sadiq and a woman, who is yet to be identified, met the doctor at an eatery in Kadri. After snacks, Ranji requested the doctor to drop the woman at a paying guest accommodation near Bendorewell. The doctor readily agreed. 
 
  However, the doctor's car was intercepted near St Agnes College by a gang comprising Narayana Salian and three others. The gang, who posed as police personnel, seized the vehicle and drove the doctor and the woman towards Someshwar. 
 
  At Someshwar, they took the duo to a house where they forced the doctor to undress. They forced him to pose with the woman and took their pictures. The gang then threatened to post the images on social media if the doctor fails to pay up. Since he didn't have any cash with him, the petrified doctor transferred the accused Rs 14 lakh through   (Real Time Gross Settlement). 
 
  After collecting the form, Ranji visited the bank and on the doctor's instruction, the bank transferred the amount to the account of the accused, said police. The doctor decided to take police help when Ranji approached him again, demanding Rs 25 lakh. This time, Ranji allegedly threatened to kill the doctor if the money is not paid. Fearing for his life, the doctor filed a complaint at the Mangaluru east police station. 
 
 
