MUMBAI: The   ( ) has announced that mobile manufacturing company   Mobiles India Private Limited will be the new team sponsor of the   from April 1, 2017 for a period of five years.

 The team sponsorship rights include the the title of official team sponsor and the right to display a commercial logo in the kits of the India men’s, women’s, A and Under-19 teams. The 
 has learnt that the current base price for bilateral matches involving India has been set at Rs 4.1 crore (approx.) and for   (ACC) and International Cricket Council (ICC) matches, it is Rs 1.56 crore (approx) - almost a four-fold increase from its earlier rate. 
 
 The existing rights holders   had last month ended its four-year association with the BCCI when it announced that it was not going to bid for the apparel sponsorship again, with CEO   telling 
  that a lack of clarity and focus regarding the board’s administration in the aftermath of January’s Supreme Court directives led to the decision. Six companies, Star India included, had picked up the tender document, but only two appeared at the bidding table - Oppo and VIVO, both of which are Chinese companies. 
  
 When Star India had bought the rights, the going rate was 1.5 for bilateral matches and 60 lakh for ACC/ICC matches. In the end, Star India had paid 1.9 crore for bilateral and 61 lakhs for ACC/ICC matches.
 
 Star India was the principal sponsor of the Indian cricket team jersey since December 2013, when it took over the role from Sahara India. The first time a Star India logo appeared on an Indian jersey was during the tour of New Zealand in January 2014.
 
 The BCCI has also claimed a packed calendar of games scheduled until 2022. As mentioned in the the ICC’s Future Tours Programme, India will play 259 international matches between June 2017 and March 2022 comprising 62 Tests, 152 ODIs and 45 T20 internationals. This includes events like the World Cup in England in 2019 and the World T20 in Australia in 2020. Essentially, India is likely to play 14 series at home and more than 20 abroad.
 
