MADURAI: The   of   on Friday resolved to adopt the amended May 2016   for   and change the   and a new MPhil course. 

 Madurai Kamaraj University was yet to adopt the new regulations for the PhD and MPhil courses as specified by the apex regulatory body for higher education to enhance the standards, which included conducting entrance examinations and appointing international faculty for exams among other things. A minimum of 55 per cent marks in post-graduation courses will now be a mandatory criterion to apply for Ph.D after completing M.Phil. A member of the academic council and the chairperson of school of energy sciences K Muthuchezhian said that the UGC regulation came into effect on May 5, 2016 and it had to be implemented without further delay. Special Officer K Ravichandran said that a booklet regarding plagiarism would be considered for distribution though the software to detect plagiarism had already been installed in the MKU library after a member raised this issue. 
 
 The nomenclature of M.Sc. Microbial Gene Technology that is offered by the Department of Microbial Technology under choice based credit system (CBCS) has been changed to M.Sc. Microbiology. Similarly the nomenclature of M.Sc. Biochemical Technology offered by the Department of Biochemistry under CBCS has been changed to M.Sc. Biochemistry. This new nomenclature would come into effect from the academic year 2017-2018. The decision was taken to rename these courses as student demand for the same was decreasing, said Dr P Sudhakar, head in charge department of Microbial technology, MKU.
 
 In addition, a new M.Phil programme, M.Phil in Microbiology under the Deparment of Microbial Technology under CBCS, is being introduced for the new academic year, for which the fee, eligibility and course structure have been framed. 
 
 It was alleged at the meeting that there were irregularities in allotting housing quarters for professors. A Velanganni Joseph, the chairman of the School of youth Empowerment, said that he was a senior professor and a native of Dindigul who had to travel back to Dindigul after completing the coaching sessions which went on till 7 p.m. He had made representations to the Registrar in charge, G Arumugam in this regard but no action had been taken. He also said that there were some faculty members who were enjoying the luxury of having two quarters violating the norms. Council member V Chinniah said that it was a serious issue which should be looked into immediately. They were assured of appropriate action.
 
 
