 talks about things digestible, and indigestible, in the Hindi film industry

 Q. Are you comfortable with wearing power on your sleeves?
 I think successful women in powerful positions find it difficult to come to terms with their own power. Most times, they are apologetic and feel the need to overcompensate. I am not talking about corporate honchos alone – women from all walks of life don’t know how to deal with their own power. 
 
 Q. How about you?
 I come from a family where there were no dos and don’ts, shoulds and should nots. The atmosphere was never controlling, yet I was conditioned in such a way that I felt uncomfortable in showing off my power. I used to apologise for the silliest of reasons. ‘Sorry’ was my favourite word. Being angry or acting temperamental was not a ‘womanly’ thing to do on the sets. 
 But now, thanks to all these strong characters I’ve played on screen, I don’t feel the need to say ‘sorry’ for everything. 
 
 Q.How do you handle success?
 I am not absolutely comfortable with my success either. I tend to downplay it often and people have used it against me. 
 
 Q. How about failure? 
 I don’t think anyone really knows how to handle failure. I mourn, grieve and move on. I don’t live in denial. 
 
 Q. Is there space for women who have a mind of their own in this industry? 
 My mentors/ producers tell me: ‘It’s okay if you play strong roles once in a while, but you must also be the typical ‘heroine’. And I look at them quite puzzled. Aren’t strong characters in these lead roles heroines? Then what have I been playing on screen all this while? 
 
 Q. What is it that angers you the most? 
 When someone subsumes me to be a   and forget I am Vidya Balan first. Even people who knew me before I met Siddharth (Roy Kapur) insist on addressing me as ‘Mrs Kapur’. They behave as if I am just the wife of a popular man in the industry. To be honest, it makes me feel as if I haven’t achieved anything at all. The only thing I have done in this industry is get married to the successful  ! But that’s not true. I have struggled to make a mark and I am not willing to give it away. 
 
 Q. As a public face, do you think it is okay to express anger? Have you been able to do it? 
 At home, I have always expressed my anger. My father says I used to be angry at the drop of a hat.
 But as a public figure, as an actress more so, I have had to suppress anger. I joined the industry when I was 26. At that point, I didn’t want to antagonise anybody. So, I was very guarded about my temper and wary of venting my frustration in public. I wanted people to like me and accept me. Looking back, it was wrong, and very damaging. I have suffered from the worst acidity in the past few years because I have suppressed all that anger! 
 
 Q. How difficult is it to lead a life under the spotlight? 
 I love it. I enjoy the fame that comes with being an actor. The adulation and love that we receive as public faces are huge perks. There are a lot of luxuries and privileges that we enjoy because of being a recognised face in the industry; one cannot deny that. 
 The flip side is when people forget you are a public figure, not public property. 
 
 Q. There was a phase when a lot was said about your dressing style. People almost wrote you off... 
 As an actor, I have mastered something called delayed reaction. In acting schools, we are taught to process before reacting. As a result, I would often go back angry. I would pick up fights with Siddharth out of the blue. But the day I unlearned this, I was happier. I realised that in the real world, reactions need not be delayed. I am making a conscious effort at expressing anger and ignoring people’s personal opinion about me. 
 Being in the limelight doesn’t mean people have the right to comment on my dressing sense or my personality. But if I have the liberty to ignore such talk and move on, similarly people have the liberty to form opinions as they wish. I cannot stop them. 
 
 Q. Do you make an effort to avoid controversies? 
 I don’t read any articles about me. I don’t watch any entertainment news. I live in my own bubble because I’ve realised that is the only way I can retain my sanity. 
 
 Q. You have been vocal about the pay gap in the industry... 
 Change has to be an individual effort. I don’t believe legislation, protests or rules and regulations, can really make a difference unless every individual wants to change for the better. 
 
 Q. You are signing fewer films these days – a conscious decision? 
 I have worked the hardest last year (two back- to-back films), but because these films didn’t work, people feel I have not been doing enough. It’s not my fault that people didn’t go to watch me in the theatres. On a serious note, since 2008, I have decided to work at my own pace. If a film does well and is declared a superhit, the echo lasts for a long time. I don’t need to be a part of many films to be in constant limelight. 
 
 Q. What was it about Siddharth that attracted you towards him? 
 The fact that I could laugh raucously around him. He is his own person and a self-made man. Besides, I find him incredibly handsome.
 
 Q. Has marriage had an impact on your career or you as an individual? 
 Not so much on my career, but I have changed a lot. I was too individualistic before. My biggest worry was how I’d share space with someone. Thankfully, Siddharth and I share more or less the same habits, so it makes it easier for us. 
 
 Q. Any lessons from your marriage?
 The past four years has taught me that there is no blanket rule for a marriage to last. I don’t have any iman dharam when it comes to sarees.
 
 Q. Do you have a rewinding zone at home? 
 I love to sit on my sofa, sip tea and watch the waves from the living room – my favourite place. We are right on the beach, and though at first, I had reservations about this property, I have started to like our home now.
 
 Q. So, you are not a beach person? 
 Instinctively, I am a mountain person. I love trees, sun streaming down, chirping of birds... but my husband has always been on the waterfront – from   to Carter Road. Then he bought this house and I happened to marry him. I never thought I could live by the beach. But I have gotten used to it now. 
 
 Q. What’s the last holiday you took? 
 Last year, we went to   for five days. It was very refreshing. 
 
 Q. Other stressbusters? 
 My twin nephew and niece (Ruhaan and Ira). Their voice perks me up any time.
 
 Q. Your saree collection seems to be exhaustive... 
 I can never tire of buying saris. I also get a lot of them as gifts. But the one sari that I wait for every year is the one that my parents gift me. It is a sort of a tradition. On my 18th birthday, my mother had asked me what I wanted and I had said ‘a kanjeevaram sari’. Since then, they gift me a sari every year, and I wear it on that day. Even if I am touring, that sari manages to reach me everywhere, anywhere! 
 
 Q. Any other weakness? 
 I go weak on my knees when I see beautiful jhumkas. Just can’t resist them. And good saris of course. I remember someone on the set of my upcoming film had worn a kota sari. I asked the costume designer for it and offered to pay. She said I could have it for free (it was worth ` 500). I took it. I don’t have any iman dharam when it comes to saris.
 
 Even people who knew me before I met Siddharth insist on addressing me as ‘Mrs Kapur’. They behave as if I am just the wife of a popular man in the industry. To be honest, it makes me feel as if I haven’t achieved anything at all.
 
 Being in the limelight doesn’t mean people have the right to comment on my dressing sense or my personality. But if I have the liberty to ignore and move on; people have the liberty to form opinions as they wish.
 
 I didn’t want to antagonise anybody when I joined the industry. So, I was very guarded about my temper... I wanted people to like me and accept me. Looking back, it was wrong, and very damaging.
 
 
