BHOPAL: Upset over high number of stillbirth, infant deaths and abortions cases in Tendukheda block of  , four panchayats shot off a letter to the state government to improve health facilities. From January 1 to December 31 last year, there were 21 cases of abortion and 23 cases of deaths of children and stillbirths in four panchayat areas, according to figures quoted by the panchayats.

 In all, 325 infants died in Damoh district of Bundelkhand region of the state during the period.
 
 Rattled by health issues, four gram sabhas of Baildhana panchayat, Bailwada, Pindrai and Bagdari in Tendukheda block of the district sprang into action and passed a resolution in January this year.
 
 Expressing concern over abortions, infant deaths and stillbirths, sarpanch of Bagdari on January 26 passed the resolution and forwarded it to principal secretary health and the district health officer and chief medical and health officer and the CEO of the panchayat to address the issue.
 
 In a letter written to the block medical officer of Tendukheda, the upsarpanch of Pindrai said, “Similar situation prevails in all 63 panchayats covering a population of 1.7 lakh in Tendukheda.”
 
 He also sent copies of a memorandum to local MP, MLA and district collector.
 
 Javed Anees, secretary, MP  , a network of fellows of NGOs, including Child Rights and You (CRY) said, “There are no primary health centres and there is one community health centres for a population of 1.5 lakh in the area leading to the health issues. In the absence of antenatal care, abortions take place.”
 
 In a joint letter written to the government by sarpanchs of the four panchayats, they demanded “availability of health services. They also want better Janani Suraksha service in Tendukheda block.”
 
 They demanded one each a community health centre and a primary health centre in the region.
 
 Health minister Rustam Singh said, “ We will get the issue examined. There are set government norms for health centres vis-a -vis population. If we find anything lacking, we will solve the problem.”
 
 Damoh MP Prahlad Patel said, “ I will review the issue at next meeting of   (NRHM).”
 
