THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Dengue-stricken capital has more to worry as the healers are becoming victims. As on Monday, 50 dengue cases were reported among the staff of General Hospital, which is already dealing with severe blood shortage and an ever increasing incidence of dengue cases. Around 12 house surgency students, 10 doctors, 20 nursing staff and 2 nursing students at the   have been confirmed with dengue. One of the hospital staff has also died of dengue, according to hospital authorities.

  The number of dengue cases in the capital has shot up to alarming levels. Monday alone recorded 112 confirmed cases, the highest number of dengue cases recorded till date this year in Thiruvananthapuram. 
 
 According to the doctors, lack of availability of preventive vaccines and adequate mosquito control measures in the hospital have added to the crisis.
 
 “Even though WHO had licensed a preventive vaccine for dengue a couple of months ago, the vaccine is available only for dengue endemic countries. Moreover, lack of mosquito control measures like fogging and maintenance of clean surroundings have made the situation even worse,” said a doctor at the General Hospital.
 
 While the total number of patients diagnosed with dengue in the capital in 2016 was 2,158 with 7 reported cases of death, data from   reveal that 773 cases of dengue have so far been reported from January- March 2017. The number of cases for April and May till day has exceeded the total dengue cases recorded in the district for three preceding months. In April 673 cases were reported and as on Monday, 629 cases have been reported in May.
 
 Places like Karamana, Poojapura, Bheemapalli, Valiyathura and Nemom are the most affected areas in the city. According to DMO Jose G D’Cruz, unhygienic maintenance of hospital surroundings and improper management of dengue patients have led to the outbreak. 
 
 “There have been 1,400 cases of dengue reported in Thiruvananthapuram corporation. Ideally, the dengue patients are supposed to be provided with mosquito nets which are impregnated with mosquito repellents. In a ward which had 18 dengue patients, only 2 of them had mosquito nets. Such things will only lead to the disease getting spread among more people. Also, the hospital premises were filled with water bottles in which the mosquitos breed. The terrace and sunshades were also filled with rain water which leads to more breeding,’’ said Dr Jose G D’Cruz, DMO who has recently visited General Hospital.
 
 The DMO also said that necessary measures like separate ward for dengue patients and fogging of hospital premises are being taken to address the crisis. “I have already given orders to carry out fogging which includes spraying of mosquito repellents around the entire hospital premises on Monday night. By Tuesday, the dengue affected patients will be moved to a separate hall with mosquito proof windows,’’ he said
 
 
