KOLKATA: The   — waging a social media battle against incessant   mongering — on Friday urged people to become social media vigilantes to thwart concerted efforts to inflame communal tensions during Durga Puja and Muharram days. 

 Commissioner   said, “Strong action will be taken against deliberate and malicious attempts (to fan tension). We urge people to exercise caution before forwarding any unsubstantiated messages — at times even posed as a question — across social media platforms. By their act, unintentionally, they tend to lend credence to such unverified and false information. We appeal to people to inform police first.”
 
 On Friday morning a message shared across WhatsApp groups spoke of a false incident about a Durga idol being desecrated in the   area and claimed that police were refusing to take action against the alleged perpetrators. The message ended with a question — ‘is this true?’ By the time cops fished out the message from social media chatter, it appeared to have been shared several times. When cops visited the spot, they found nothing.
 
 Worried that this wasn’t the first time this was happening, state home secretary   said: “Forwarding unverified messages as true in effect was fostering communal tension.” He recounted how once — after a fake message went viral — he had to call up the control room and verify facts. “In case of any doubt about some information, get in touch with the nearest cop or police station. We urge all Puja organizers and individuals to carry the numbers of the local police stations,” said Bhattacharya. DGP Surajit Kar Purkayastha asked citizens to dial helpline numbers — 100, 1073 and 1090 — if they felt some messages were spreading hatred and enmity.
 
 Police said while they were stepping up vigil on the virtual platform, by the time such messages were tracked and the original sender was found, they pass through several hands. “Due to this an unwarranted social media chatter was generated out of nothing. Many of those who received and sent them tended to take the news as facts. Police alone cannot combat such rumour mongering and the people need to help us to weed out such attempts to inflame communal passions,” said an officer.
 
