PATNA: The state of uncertainty prevailing in the Bihar universities for the past several months has ended with the appointment of vice-chancellors and pro-vice-chancellors through duly constituted search committees and in a fairly transparent manner. Academics feel the universities would now function smoothly under the new incumbents.   However, the new VCs and pro-VCs will have to struggle hard to improve the academic atmosphere and put the derailed system back on track. There are many constraints blocking the desired growth of higher education and some of them are beyond the control of VCs and pro-VCs. For instance, VCs can hardly do anything if there are few teachers in the colleges and universities. It is no secret that almost all the higher education institutions in the state are functioning with barely 40% teachers as no appointment has been made in the last two decades.    The VCs and pro-VCs, howsoever qualified and competent they may be, cannot ensure quality teaching and research without ensuring proper faculty strength. They will have to approach the chancellor and the state government to use their good offices in expediting the appointment of teachers against vacant posts. The new university service panel should be made functional without any further delay so that fresh advertisements for appointment of lecturers in different universities might be issued and the process of appointment may be initiated.    The new academic administrators will also have to ensure regular sessions by conducting timely admission and examinations for both undergraduate and postgraduation courses. They will have to ensure proper conduct of vocational and self-financing courses for which students have to pay hefty amount as course fee. Students must get all the academic and infrastructural facilities on the campus if they are charged money for the same.    “The new incumbents will have to ensure that the universities pass their annual budget well in time and submit to the government much before the presentation of the government budget in the state legislature. Presently, university budget is passed by the senate much after the passage of the state budget. It will also have to be ensured that the utilization certificates of the grants sanctioned by the government are submitted well in time so that there is no delay in payment of salaries to the teachers and non-teaching staff,” said Federation of University Teachers’ Associations of Bihar working president Kanhaiya Bahadur Sinha.    In Patna University, the newly appointed VC and pro-VC will have to initiate steps for organizing the PU centenary celebrations on a grand scale. “They should leave no stone unturned to ensure the presence of the President or the Prime Minister as the chief guest on the occasion. It is high time a concerted effort should also be made for conversion of this seventh oldest university into a central university,” said Patna University Teachers’ Association president Randhir Kumar Singh.