MUMBAI:   (WCD) minister   has told TOI that she has asked her department to close down private   that have been given C or D grades. Two years ago, 963 institutions were inspected by WCD officials and graded into A, B, C and D based on their following the rules for operating children's homes.

 Munde said several privately run homes by NGOs were not following the norms and still operating. She told TOI that a circular would be issued and WCD officials can take action against such homes.
 
 The report on the grading of 963 children's homes in the state, has found 214 of them fall in the “non-performing category“. These can be shut down if the final order comes from the state government. Homes that scored between 90 and 100% were placed in category A, those that scored between 80 and 90% in category B, and homes scoring less than 80% in category C.
 
 The WCD has 1,003 child protection care homes in the state--most of them are privately run, and only 40 are government-run institutions.
 
 The minister further said that many of the privately operated homes were housing children who were there only for education purpose. “The observation homes are for destitute children or children in conflict with law. Those children who do not fall in this category should be taken care of by the education department and kept in hostels,“ she said.
 
 Incidentally , the department is facing more than 800 cases in various local courts in the state from private child care protection homes for non-payment of grants. WCD officials have maintained that these institutions are not abiding by the Juvenile Justice (JJ) Act to operate child care protection homes and have demanded that the government take stringent action against them. According to the JJ Act, children's homes should have a decent space for reception, attached bathing and toilet facilities and have minimum boarding and lodging facilities, and provide basic needs in terms of clothing, food, healthcare, nutrition, education, vocational training and recreation. At present, the government pays Rs 900 per month per child and only if all the details are explained by these homes can the grant be given to them.
 
 WCD officials have said that when these privately operated child protection care homes were asked to provide details of the facilities, they failed to do so. So the government was unable to issue grants, which prompted the institutions to approach local courts for issuance of grants.
 
