GUWAHATI: Two years after declaring "friendship" with China, the banned anti-talks Ulfa (I) is back. This time, asking the Dalai Lama not to utter anything against China during his upcoming visit to the northeast.

  Police and other security forces believe that Ulfa-I will try to create trouble in the run-up to the Dalai Lama's visit. All districts have been asked to be on high alert during the Tibetan leader's stay in the region. Security forces are wary of Ulfa (I) leader Paresh Baruah, who is known to be sheltered in China. "We have details of his (Paresh Baruah's) exact shelter house at Ruili town in the Dehong Prefecture region of Yunan province in southern China. He is an expert at pitching tent on foreign soil - first in  , then in Bangladesh, Myanmar and China," a security source said.
 
 Baruah had sought China's help to attain "sovereignty" in Assam. Now, the outfit's London-based physician chairman, Mukul Hazarika alias Abhizeet 'Asom' Barman, who is wanted by the National Investigating Agency on charges of waging a war against India for secession, has addressed an open letter to the Dalai Lama. A copy of the letter is with TOI. Barman, in his letter, warned the spiritual leader that his plan to visit Tawang "despite China objecting" is "unwise" and "a cause of great concern to us". Should a war break out between China and India,   and Assam would stand to suffer, he added. China had earlier warned of "severe damage" to Indo-Chinese bilateral ties when the Dalai Lama had announced his visit to Tawang in  , which China claims to be a part of its territory and calls "southern Tibet".
 
 Should the Dalai Lama decide to come to Assam, Barman wrote, certain caveats would have to be kept in mind. "Nothing against China will be uttered by you in private or public because China has always been a friendly neighbour of ours and the relationship between China and Assam is truly very deep. We won't tolerate India's view to be propagated from Assam's soil," the Ulfa leader stated.
 
