NAGPUR: Nishant Parmar, having several cases of cheating, robberies, extortion, kidnapping and such   against him, has been remanded to custody of Tehsil police by a   for two days on Sunday. The dreaded impostor, taken into custody by Tehsil police through production warrant on Saturday from Beed court, had duped and extorted several jewellers in city, Mumbai, Pune, Beed and elsewhere posing as a senior police officer. 

 Parmar is a former ‘police mitra’ who had worked as a volunteer with police department for several years before turning to a trickster using his skills having acquired from the styles the cops generally functions. The first case against Parmar was registered in city at Tehsil police station last week for misleading cops and making a bid to extort cash from a jeweller at Gandhibagh.
 
 In the latest development, a fresh case of cheating and impersonating has been registered against Parmar on Saturday at Sitabuldi police station for having duped a Dharampeth-based jeweller to the tune of around 2.50 lakhs and also 50 gams of gold in March last month. Parmar, who had identified himself as ‘PI Rathod’ of Mumbai crime branch, had called up Sitabuldi police station to seek the contact number of the jeweller within their limits. He had cited the reason of recovery to be made from the jeweller. 
 
 After having procured the phone number of the jeweller, Parmar claimed that he had arrested a woman from Goa who has claimed to have disposed of the stolen gold at the victim’s Dharampeth-based outlet. Parmar had threatened to arrest the jeweller if Rs2.50 lakhs was not paid to him in Mumbai. After receiving the cash, Parmar had once again called up the jeweller to deliver him 50 gms of gold at Bandra court in Mumbai and take back Rs2.50 lakhs as the matter could not be settled at the top level. Later, Parmar had sneaked away from the court premises with the gold too without returning the cash as promised to lay the trap. 
 
 The latest case was registered by Sitabuldi police after their Tehsil counterpart earlier booked Parmar. Sitabuldi police would later take Parmar into custody. 
 
