AURANGABAD: The   ( ), Aurangabad is all set to offer Bachelor of Laws with Honours from the academic year 2017-18, making the long standing proposal a reality.

 Principal Secretary with higher and technical education department Sitaram Kunte was in town on Saturday to chair a review meeting with different government departments to give a final push to the establishment of the prestigious institution. 
 
 While a 55 acre land at Karodi in the outskirts of the city has been identified for setting up of the NLU, a make-shift arrangement at the   here will ensure the start of the university from June.
 
 The state government is leaving no stone unturned to ensure the start of the NLU at Aurangabad from the coming academic year. “While appointment of vice-chancellor has been made, more than 35 other posts have been created. Further formalities for setting up of the institution will be cleared during the forthcoming cabinet meet,” said a senior government official, who was part of meeting.
 
 The posts include two statutory officers—Finance and Accounts—and a registrar, along with eight teachers and a few non-teaching staff.
 
 S Suryaprakash, who has been appointed as the vice-chancellor of NLU at Aurangabad, was also part of the meeting. Speaking with TOI, he said, “Efforts are on to ensure NLU, Aurangabad gets covered in the 2017 Common Law Admission Test (CLAT), a centralised test for admission to prominent National Law Universities in India.”
 
 “Even if the CLAT notification is already out, we are in touch with the authorities concerned to ensure NLU, Aurangabad figures in the admission process for 2017-18. We still have some time in hand to complete the necessary formalities,” he said. 
 
 Voices of dissent were growing from the city and the region as NLU, Aurangabad was kept on hold for months, while on the other hand a range of important educational projects that were proposed at Nagpur received speedy clearance. 
 
 As regards to NLU, the Chief Minister   had publically pledged his support to NLU, Aurangabad when he had attended the 35th foundation day event of the Aurangabad bench of the   on August 28 last year. Fadnavis had also announced that 30% seats in NLUs would be reserved for state candidates.
 
 While NLUs at both Nagpur and Mumbai have already become functional, the Aurangabad one was allegedly kept on the back burner by the government. 
 
 Sanjeevani Mule, principal of  , said her institution was ready to offer desired space for the setting up of NLU during the makeshift arrangement.
 
 “It is matter of pride for entire region that the institution of national repute is coming up at Aurangabad,” she said.
 
 The Building and Construction department has allotted a budget of around Rs 1.5 crore for carrying out repair and maintenance of the portion in Government Education College where NLU will be set up temporarily. 
 
