Vellore: The central team’s visit to assess the crop damages due to drought and declining ground water level has failed to please   in   and Tiruvannamalai districts as the officials opted the villages along the state highway for field inspection. 

 “The officials are not reviewing the worst affected areas in remote areas. We have raised the issue with the Collector (S A Raman) during earlier meetings. The district administration did not inform us about the central team’s visit to the district,” said R Janardhanan, a coconut grower in Vadakarai village in Ambur Taluk in Vellore district.
 
 S Balaraman, Tiruvannamalai district president of Tamil Nadu Vivasaigal Sangam, said Tiruvannamalai, Pennathur, Thandrampet, Pudupalayam and Kalasapakkam were worst affected due to drought this year. However, he said, the officials did not assess the damages properly. 
 
 The central team comprising Ganesh Ram, agriculture research officer of Navodaya, Ratna Prasad, deputy general manager of Food Corporation of India and Paul Pandian, commissioner of fisheries development visited the three villages in Tiruvannamalai district and three in Vellore district on Monday and Tuesday. Commissioner of social security schemes, Tamil Nadu, C N Maheswaran accompanied the team.
 
 The team first visited paddy fields in Kastampadi village in Polur taluk on Monday evening. Later, the three member team held a review meeting with Tiruvannamalai collector Prashant M Wadnere and officials of revenue, horticulture and agriculture departments.
 
 The district administration handed over details of crop damages and worst affected areas, report on deficit rainfall and ground water level to the central team during the review meeting. The officials said paddy was cultivated in 33,820 heactares of land in samba crop season. Of these, over 50% of the crops withered due to drought.
 
 “The team inspected and observed the crop damages in three villages in Kandhili taluk. The fields where red gram, cotton, sugarcane and maize were cultivated were taken as samples during the visit by the team. The officials have also inspected wells in the villages to assess the ground water level,” said Vellore district collector S A Raman.
 
 
