PANAJI: The Bharatiya Janata Party ( ) is eyeing yet another windfall in Bardez, hoping to snatch an advantage in a difficult scenario post the February 4 polls, with the applecarts of a few of its heavyweights likely to be upset elsewhere. In the 2012 polls, nearly one-third of BJP’s 21 seats for a simple majority came from the seven-seat taluka, catapulting the party's tally towards the magic figure, helping it to wrest control in the 40-member house.

 From two seats in 1999, it has been a steady rise for the BJP in this taluka, as it increased its control to three seats — Mapusa, Siolim and Tivim — in 2002, and to six in 2012. Except for Porvorim, which was bagged by Independent candidate Rohan Khaunte by a small margin, the lotus bloomed in all other segments. For three decades it was a   (MGP) bastion, and then it went into the hands of Congress for sometime.
 
 On paper, for the 2017 polls, the party appears to have done well in Bardez, and poll analysts are giving them a chance of winning most of the seats. Nevertheless, a tinge of suspense does persist, given the uncertainty all over Goa.
 
 The major threat could have come from the Congress, but the party, which wanted to contest all 40 seats, could not strengthen its base in this multi-seat taluka. In fact, its organization in many constituencies appeared weak.
 
 In Mapusa, supporters of deputy chief minister Francis D’Souza, who had won by the highest margin, of more than 10,000 votes, in 2012,are very confident of victory. But, this time, MGP’s Vinod ‘Balu’ Phadke has put up a good fight, signalling a revival of Goa’s oldest regional party in the commercial town. Bad infrastructure for long, especially roads, and overall resentment against the BJP boosted the MGP campaign.
 
 In Tivim, BJP may have a close call. Sitting BJP   Kiran Kandolkar is engaged in a fierce battle with Nilkant Halarnkar of Congress, who, as the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) candidate, had lost by 1,141 votes in 2012. Kandolkar derives his strength from his government’s schemes and the strong presence of women’s self-help groups promoted by him. However, Halarnkar hasnursed the constituency despite his 2012 loss. This time around, he had a surprise supporter in former political heavyweight, Dayanand Narvekar.
 
 Calangute is one constituency where Congress is hoping for a victory. If it wasn’t for Michael Lobo, BJP would have had to struggle this time in the constituency that the saffron party wrested from the Congress in 2012, to win the seat for first time.
 
 Lobo, who has a strong personal vote bank, appears to have surged above the general undercurrent against the BJP, receiving a good response including from the minorities. The MLA has endeared himself to his electorate by even fighting with his own party and tourism minister Dilip Parulekar for the common man’s issues. As to whether Congress will wrest control over the seat once again, much depends on former MLA Agnelo Fernandes, say analysts. Fernandes controls Candolim, and if he can garner a huge lead for Joseph Sequeira, who got less time for campaigning, Congress will be through.
 
 In Aldona, six candidates are in the fray, but the main contest is likely to be between BJP MLA Glenn Ticlo Souza, Congress’ Amarnath Panjikar, and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) candidate and former Aldona sarpanch, Ursula D’Souza.
 
 Panjikar, who is one of Congress’ young candidates, didn’t get much time unlike the BJP and AAP candidates. The Aldona village itself will be divided mainly between the three and MGP candidate Mahesh Satelkar. If Ticlo gets a substantial share of the votes in Moira, Nachinola and two wards in Mapusa, he will retain the seat, analysts say. To Ticlo’s credit, he could muster support of a section of minorities for the BJP in this segment. Panjikar’s fate could hinge on the extent of votes polled by AAP.
 
 In Porvorim, the Congress did not initiate any effort to rebuild its base, despite having a sizeable vote. In 2012, it was given to NCP during seat sharing between the Congress and NCP. This time, left with no option, Congress extended support to Khaunte against BJP’s Guruprasad Pawaskar. It is a political battle for the two classmates. When it was carved out during the BJP regime, Porvorim appeared tailor made for the ‘lotus’ to bloom, but the party lost the seat to Khaunte by around 900 votes in 2012 due to its overconfidence. Will Khaunte create history by winning twice as an independent?
 
 BJP put up a united front this time and defence minister   spent lot of time in the constituency. But, the question is whether the influence of rebel Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) leader Subhash Velingkar, who at one time was a much-respected figure on the Porvorim plateau, will counter Parrikar’s efforts.
 
 Taking advantage of the sleeping giant, Vijai Sardesai’s Goa Forward Party (GFP) made inroads in the Saligao and Siolim constituencies. While the Congress was taking its own time, amid confusion, to decide on an alliance, GFP was more aggressive and posed a threat to two ministers — Dilip Parulekar in Saligao and Dayanand Mandrekar in Siolim. When it looked like Parulekar was in the danger zone in Saligao with GFP’s Jayesh Salgaonkar making waves, the Congress, on the last day of filing nomination, fielded former Calangute MLA Agnelo Fernandes. All three contestants expressed confidence in winning the seat. 
 
 In Siolim, the Congress was left with no candidate, and had no option but to support GFP candidate Vinod Palyekar. After many years, Mandrekar had a tough fight at hand.
 
 Overall, poll watchers say that Bardez will witness a fierce fight between BJP and its rivals.
 
 
