CHENNAI: Did the service at the   leave you with a   in your mouth like the wine that the waiter spilled on his apron? Well, you don't have to pay for it any more. 

 In a notification issued on Monday, the ministry of consumer affairs, food and public distribution said a customer can refuse to pay service charges if they do not meet his expectations.
 
 The rule, which requires a restaurant to display in an "appropriate" place that payment of service charges are completely at the discretion of the customer, is likely to have a major impact on how hospitable the hospitality industry really is.
 
 The notification, which has the backing of the  , gives the restaurant-goer the advantage of not having to pay service charges to underserving restaurants.
 
 "I have in the past refused to pay service charges at restaurants whose services I did not like," says Gulshan Iyer, who eats out often.
 
 The Centre intends the notification to act as a regulatory measure to address complaints against restaurants and eateries that arbitrarily levy 'service charges' in the range of 5% to 20% in lieu of tips.
 
 On the other hand, however, service charges are like a welfare fund for the service staff, city restaurateur Sandesh Reddy says.
 
 "Unfortunately, many employees expect to receive part of a service charge," he says. "They think it's the norm and if it's they don't get it, they simply jump jobs and find work in a place that they do."
 
 "In fact, if there's a way it could be completely waived, we welcome the move. As a uniformly enforced law, it will benefit the customer and also help retain staff," Reddy says.
 
 People who dine out regularly say they welcome the policy because it ensures they get a fair deal, not necessarily because it allows them to pay less.
 
 "Most people are willing to tip for good service. The trouble arises when the payment becomes mandatory," says food lover Rajasekar Nomburaj. "I'd be happy to pay a tip if the service is good, rather than pay 10% to 15% regardless of my dining experience."
 
 
