He reached the college at 5pm, almost two hours before his performance, and was waiting patiently backstage for his performance.  , who was performing for the first time in a DU college, said, "I thought it was a co-ed college, but I just got to know that it is a girls' college. I know it is one of the most respected colleges in the country, so I’m glad to be here. Normally, the crowd is balanced (referring to male-female ratio) in our gigs, but I think it is the first gig where the ladies will be more in number."

 
  
  Students enjoying Lucky Ali’s (inset) performance at   (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
  
 The singer, who has performed in almost all the big cities shared that he does not find any difference in the crowd of different cities. "They are all people! For us, it is something different every time we perform. It is our expression in that particular moment that matters, and part of it comes from the energy of the crowd. It drives you to excel and tells you what to do," he said. 
 
  Recalling his school days, he told us that he never liked studying. "I wasn’t a good student. I guess, I was the only one in my school, who got demoted to seventh standard from the eight. That’s why, I never went to college. Instead I created music, something which I always liked doing," he said. 
 
 
  
  (L-R) Charu Maheshwari, president of the students' union, Aditi Dhillon, general secretary, Lucky Ali, Suman Sharma, principal of the college, Smitha Sabu, treasurer, Shambhavi Diggi, cultural secretary of the students' union and  
 
 
 
  
 During his performance, Ali belted out some of his hits like 'Gori Teri Aankhein Kahe', 'Aa Bhi Jaa'. Much to the audiences' delight, he even sang 'Hairat' and 'Na Tum Jaano Na Hum'. As Suman Sharma, the principal of the college along with members of the students' union took to stage, he started singing, 'Ek Pal Ka Jeena', and the crowd started dancing and cheering for the singer. "It is a moment of stress and chaos for us, but I'm happy with the way our students, volunteers, teachers and non-teaching staff have managed the crowd," said the principal. 
 
  
 For students, Ali’s performance was like a flashback to the 90s. "My dad used to buy his CDs, and we still have them. We have grown up listening to his songs, and it feels great to hear him live," said Saumya Singh, a second-year student of Economics (Hons).
 
  Tanvi Jalan, a third-year student from Journalism (Hons) added, "We’ve never witnessed this kind of footfall for Tarang. It's all because of him, and we all enjoyed his performance."
 
  
  Lucky Ali posing with his band members 
 
 
  
 
 
