CHENNAI: On Sunday,   working president   appealed to party members not to give him shawls but to gift him books on his   on March 1. After counting the days to his birthday, Stalin can now count -- if not read -- the books he got when he turned 65. 

 Stalin had received 3,000 books as birthday   by Wednesday afternoon and the number was increasing.
 
 Listening to his appeal, party cadre and leaders gifted Stalin books when they met him either at his residence or DMK headquarters on his birthday.
 
 The books he got included those on medicine, law and history. 
 
 One of the books was the Tamil translation of Michael H Hart’s “The 100,” which Stalin handed over to his father and party President M Karunanidhi, who is not keeping well. The party released a photo of Stalin giving the book to his father.
 
 Party sources told TOI that the books were kept at Stalin’s residence and at party headquarters. “Stalin is yet to decide on what to do with the books. They might be distributed to deserving students,” said a senior DMK leader.
 
 The birthday celebrations began with a cake-cutting at Stalin’s residence where only his family members and close relatives were present. 
 
 Stalin and his wife Durga wore garlands and were greeted by families of their son and daughter as well as his younger brother M K Tamilarasu and his family. 
 
 Later, Stalin paid homage to late chief minister C N Annadurai, Dravidar Kazhagam founder Periyar at their memorials and called on DMK general secretary K Anbazhagan at his residence.
 
 Leaders of political parties like the Congress and the BJP greeted him over the phone. 
 
 There were complaints that party cadre played music in high volume in several places to celebrate his birthday, disturbing Class 12 students who were preparing for their board exams which will begin on Thursday.
 
 Later, in a statement to party cadre, Stalin asked them not to use loud speakers in the name of celebrating his birthday as it would affect Class 12 students.
 
 “My birthday is being celebrated as an awareness day by DMK cadre and the public. I request the cadre not use loud speakers and disturb the students as they are appearing for an important exam in their life,” said Stalin.
 
 
