BENGALURU: In an attempt to build a scalable healthcare model that’ll make affordable healthcare accessible to rural communities, the state department of medical, health and family welfare signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with  , the   arm of the pharmaceutical company headed by Kiran   to establish eLAJ smart clinics in 15 primary healthcare centres (PHC s) across six districts in Karnataka.

 K R  , minister for medical, health and family welfare, inaugurated the first such smart clinic at Mallathahalli in southwest Bengaluru on Tuesday.
 
 eLAJ clinics are technology-enabled, smart clinics equipped with multi-parameter monitoring devices developed by PacketBIO, the foundation’s technology partner.
 
 The device enables multiple diagnostic tests and generation of electronic medical records (EMRs) of patients. The eLAJ model has been designed to deliver data-based healthcare on the basis of socio-demographic and health indicators obtained from community-based screenings. This innovative health delivery model will facilitate effective preventive and primary healthcare intervention in rural areas of Karnataka for the benefit of communities with poor access to quality healthcare.
 
 Speaking at the launch, Kumar said that through the collaboration the department of health aimed to address the multiple healthcare challenges that crop up due to inadequate public health infrastructure.
 
 “I strongly believe technology can help transform the public healthcare scenario in India, particularly in rural and remote areas of our state,” he said.
 
 Biocon Foundation and its partner, PacketBIO, will provide training to government doctors at PHCs, and enable them to run the clinics optimally. In addition, the foundation will employ more than 30 technicians to support data entry and laboratory services.
 
 Mazumdar-Shaw said effective use of technology would help strengthen primary and secondary healthcare mechanisms in the country. “Biocon Foundation is pleased to help enable data-based healthcare delivery to the people of the state through eLAJ clinics. By joining hands with the government, we aspire to benefit many more villages in Karnataka through the eLAJ model that combines good infrastructure, latest technology and the best available medical expertise,” she said.
 
