Don’t think I am talking about current leaders,” said   as he began his speech, but the joke wasn’t lost on the audience. Peppered with insightful anecdotes and witty analogies, the hour long speech left the crowd asking for more as the   winner took potshots at the likes of American President  , Prime Minister  , former Indian PM, late  , Mussolini’s sex drive and more. Here is a pick of the most entertaining excerpts from the talk which kicked off Day 2 of  . 

 
 
 The most interesting tid bit he revealed was about his dinner meeting with Gyani Zail Singh soon after his appointment as Home Minister in Indira Gandhi’s cabinet in 1980. “Chawla, a stringer I used to work with was very close to Zail Singh. He invited me for dinner at the home minister’s behest,” said Arun Shourie who went on to narrate an exchange between Chawla and Zail Singh:
 Chawla: Ki haal ne (How are you)
 Zail Singh: Nigge haal ne (Cosy)
 Chawla: Kivem (how)
 Zail Singh: Biba ne Amteshwar ki file banane boli (Lady (Indira) asked me to make a file on Amteshwar Anand, mother-in-law of Sanjay Gandhi and mother of Maneka Gandhi) 
 
 
 
 The former BJP leader drew some funny psycho-sexual analogies to explain the authoritarian ways of narcissist leaders in the world. “Mussolini slept with 400 women in his life. And he kept a score of how many women he slept with because of his insecurity about his small physical stature,” he said. 
 
 
 
 He had some pretty funny things to say about why Casanova’s famed sex-drive. “Casanova bedded a new woman everyday because he has to reassure himself every night that he could do it. Narcissistic men are insecure and hence need to keep reassuring themselves constantly,” he added as the crowd burst out laughing.
 
 
 
 He did not mince any words where expressing his disapproval about demonetisation.
 “The last man who stashed blackmoney in cash was Sukhram who hid Rs 3.6 crore under his bed...What is the point of spraying mosquito repellent (Demonitisation ie) in India when the dengue causing mosquitoes (read as black money) is stashed in Switzerland,” he said. 
 
