MADURAI: Observing that the Tamil Nadu government was right in appointing T K Rajendran as the   of Tamil Nadu, the Madurai bench of the Madras high court on Friday refused to quash his appointment.

 “In the absence of any corroborative materials suggesting acceptance of illegal gratification by the present DGP, the state government was not expected to forward the alleged incriminating materials to UPSC. The present DGP satisfied the eligibility criteria for the post. There is not even a single adverse entry recorded in his service book relating to 32 years of police service, who held 15 various posts in the department. The successive governments in power have certified that his performance was outstanding,” the division bench of justices K K Sasidharan and G R Swaminathan observed.
 
 The division bench ruled on the PIL plea filed by K Kathiresan, AITUC construction workers wing Madurai urban district secretary. The petitioner alleged that there was incriminating evidence against officials including the present DGP in the documents seized by the   (I-T) in respect to the gutkha scam.
 
  Justice K K Sasidharan said that there was absolutely no merit in the contention raised by the petitioner over the state government’s failure to submit the files to UPSC. The petitioner had claimed that if the documents were given to UPSC, T K Rajendran would not have been not included the list.
 
 After hearing arguments and perusing documents submitted by the chief secretary, IT chief commissioner and  , the bench had earlier reserved its order on July 17.
 
 “The entry relating to the payment of illegal gratification to the commissioner of police (CoP) indicates that money was paid to him through one Rajendran. The IT department recorded the statement of  , partner of the firm dealing with gutkha, that Rs 60 lakh was paid to the commissioner of police on April 21 and May 20 last year. Neither the account book nor the statement given by the partner of gutkha manufacturing concerned contain a clear admission that money was paid directly to the DGP who was the CoP at the relevant point of time,” said Justice K K Sasidharan.
 
 The record indicates that the gutkha manufacturer had made large scale payments through two intermediaries including Rajendran and Nandakumar. Except the direct payment made to Arul, advocate on record for the firm, all other payments were made through the intermediaries. “In so far as the police department is concerned, payments were made through Rajendran. The DVAC in its preliminary enquiry, questioned the said Rajendran who denied distribution of money to police officers through him,” the judge said.
 
 The Judge also observed that the petitioner is only a name lender to the case.
 
 “We were in dilemma as to whether all the records filed by chief secretary, IT department and DVAC should be disclosed in our order during the currency of enquiry by VAC. To our surprise, the petitioner himself through his counsel produced the materials collected by the I-T department after the conclusion of arguments. His access to the records kept in the custody of public authorities clearly shows that he is only a name lender and is acting at the behest of others. We have reasons to suspect the bonafide intention of the petitioner in filing the writ,” the Judge added.
 
