NEW DELHI:   is planning to reallot the flats returned by the allottees of the 2014 housing scheme to 1,000   of  . The residents, who were evicted from the slum settlement, may get new houses either in Rohini or Narela. On Friday, a group of slum-dwellers, accompanied by DDA officials, visited Rohini’s sectors 34 and 35 in this connection. 

 But those already residing in the area are opposing the move as they fear this will affect the value of their property. They are planning to write to Union minister of housing Venkaiah Naidu, Delhi LG Anil Baijal and DDA VC Udai Pratap Singh, expressing their concern.
 
 The proposal, which has received in-principle approval from the authority, is being seriously considered as the number of beneficiaries of the   Colony Redevelopment Scheme has gone up from 2,641 to nearly 4,000. DDA, which had faced stiff resistance from slum-dwellers during the eviction drive in December last year, accepted their demand to revise the cut-off date for submission of the beneficiary applications. The cut-off date was revised from January 2011 to January 1, 2015, according to   (DUSIB) guidelines.
 
 DDA officials said that houses for 2,641 families were to be constructed. The developer, DDA officials said, has agreed to construct a few more houses to accommodate 200-odd families. “But we have to make arrangement for the remaining 1,000 families. We are working out a detailed plan,” said J P Aggarwal, principal commissioner (land disposal and housing), DDA.
 
 But the residents allege they have been cheated by the government body. “We paid nearly Rs 15-17 lakh for a flat. Now, the slum-dwellers will be given the same flat for less than Rs 1.5 lakh. This will severely affect the prices of our property,” said Vaibhav Puggal, president of Sector 35, Pocket-5 RWA.
 
 The residents have been fighting for basic amenities like roads, water and streetlights for the past two years. TOI had carried a report on this in November last year.
 
 Aggarwal said DDA would ensure that interests of the people living in the area and those of the slum-dwellers are protected. The land-owning agency has formed a quick response team (QRT) to deal with the problem.
 
 DDA official say slum-dwellers will be given an option if they want to shift here. “The first preference will be given to 527 families who had shifted to transit camp two years ago. We will then offer these flats to 750 families, who recently shifted. Others will get subsequently,” said an official. 
 
 
