Kolkata: The   on Friday granted bail to Trinamool Congress MP  , four-and-a-half months after he was arrested by CBI on charges of helping   spread its network. 

 While the HC asked him to deposit his passport with the central agency, he was allowed to return to Kolkata. Bandyopadhyay will have to furnish a   and is likely to be released by Saturday evening. CBI, however, hinted it would challenge the order in the  .
 
 Bandyopadhyay was arrested by the central investigating agency on January 3 after it “found evidence” of his involvement in the Rs 17,000-crore Rose Valley scam. 
 
 Earlier last month, CBI filed a chargesheet in the case, bringing charges against him under Sections 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 409 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of the IPC and Sections 4 and 6 of the Prize Chits and Money Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act. 
 
 Bandyopadhyay’s bail was granted on Friday by the same judge who had earlier refused bail to fellow Trinamool Congress MP Tapas Paul, also accused in the Rose Valley case.In his 11-page order, Justice J Das said   Bandyopadhyay was being granted bail judging the merit of the case. 
 
 The CBI officials argued that apart from being an MP, Bandyopadhyay was chairman of the parliamentary committee on finance. “He was aware of the Rose Valley developments and we need to see if he had influenced market regulators, including Sebi,” said a CBI official.
 
 Bandyopadhyay’s lawyer Sabyasachi Banerjee insisted the MP was neither a shareholder nor a director of the company. “He has never allured people to invest with the Rose Valley group. He had attended two cultural programmes of the group, that too as an MP. There were no direct money transfers to the MP’s account to prove CBI’s point. The judge has considered each point of our argument,” he said. 
 
 Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said: “We are very happy. When I visited him, I saw he had lost a lot of weight. He needs to take rest. His health has been ruined.”
 
 Immediately after he was sent to judicial custody, Bandyopadhyay was admitted to the jail hospital and shifted to SCB Medical College in Cuttack. A seven-member board then suggested shifting him to a multi-superspeciality facility. He was shifted to Apollo Hospital in February after a court order.
 
 Bandyopadhyay’s wife Nayana said: “I am relieved but am also tense about his health. We will move him from Cuttack as per the inst-ructions of my party colleagues.” Bandyopadhyay may be moved to Kolkata in an ambulance.
 
 
