LUCKNOW: From allowing her party leaders to share the dais in a   to 
  to launch a publicity campaign — and even joking with reporters — Mayawati has come a long way. 

 Political experts point out that the BSP chief might just be attempting to shed the image of a drab and hard political task master just before the high decibel poll battle begins in Uttar Pradesh.
 
  The change is perceptible for those knowing BSP chief Mayawati as an aggressive politician always surrounded by fierce-looking black cat commandos while remaining ensconced in her palatial bungalow, unapproachable even for her party ranks, let alone the common man.
 
 It was only last week when former SP leader Ambika Chaudhary, during his joining the BSP, just walked into the party office with a bouquet and sat by the side of Mayawati who was then addressing a press conference. Mayawati’s close aide SC Mishra, who had barely shared the stage with the Dalit queen during her political rallies even, sat by the BSP chief. The same thing happened on Thursday during the merger of Quami Ekta Dal with BSP—gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari’s family emerged out of a hallowed hall, where no one, except Mayawati is allowed, and stood by the side of the BSP boss. 
 
 Just two days ago, a delegation of little-known Janwadi Party (Secular) too had claimed of meeting Mayawati while announcing its support to BSP.
 
 “Ab hum kya batayein…aap dekh rahe honge (What should I say…you may be noticing it),” laughed a senior BSP leader, who did not wish to be identified.
 
 The lighter side of the BSP chief came to the fore in one of her press conferences held last month. Mayawati walked into the conference hall around 12noon, looked up to the reporters and joked: “Barah baj gaye kya? (Is it 12 o’clock already?” bursting into a peal of laughter. In another such press briefing called at her residence, Mayawati smiled at the huge gathering and said: “Kya baat hai…kaafi log aagaye aaj...”
 
 Mayawati has been known to pursue a conventional style of politics while remaining averse to use of social media. This time, however, she has agreed to use   to reach out to the electorate. In fact, some of Mayawati’s rallies and press conferences were being aired to her supporters live using   and  .
 
 Also, gone are the traditional artists who used to sing for BSP during Mayawati’s rallies in earlier days. Now, there is a media blitzkrieg called ‘Behenji ko aane do’ and a party anthem ‘Singhasan pe Maya behen’ composed by Bollywood lyricist Muntasir and sung by ‘Kai Poche’ fame Divya Kumar and Aishwarya Nigam.
 
 
 
 
 Political commentator JP Shukla said that Mayawati appears to have understood the need for a change in the present circumstances even as her political opponents likes BJP, SP and   become much more interactive. 
 
 “There was a time when BSP pursued the philosophy of staying away from money, mafia and media. That has been changing with time and the evolution of BSP from just being a Dalit-dominated outfit and incorporating higher castes and Muslims,” he said. 
 
