LUCKNOW: Having suffered the problem of garbage for over six years already, residents are in for more inconvenience because there is no coordination between   and Eco-Green, the past and present companies responsible for waste management in the city. 

 Despite  's contract mandating Jyoti Envirotech to continue lifting garbage till the time new company takes over, the company backed out while the new company is struggling to fill in gaps of the waste disposal chain and to run the plant without equipment.
 
 As per contract, Jyoti has neither handed over its machinery to the new company, nor made payments to its work force for the last 3-4 months which is deterring them from joining the new firm. 
 
 The garbage collectors, garbage vehicle drivers and other staff will join the new company only when their pending salaries are paid. Presently, Eco-Green has been able to run only Shivri waste treatment plant to full capacity of 1,300 metric tonnes. 
 
 This is not the garbage being collected daily but large heaps accumulated at the plant over a year. 
 
 Eco-Green's general manager   said,"Jyoti Envirotech had dumped about 50,000 tonnes of garbage in Shivri plant's land and had not run the plant for past many months. The garbage was dumped as it is. We have been able to treat about 23,000 tonnes so far. They had to transfer government equipment like compacters, rickshaw trolleys, garbage trucks to us but haven't." 
 
 Jyoti was given the contract in 2011 whereby it had to collect, transport and treat the waste. The company was able to cover only half the wards and failed in processing the waste. 
 
 LMC's environment engineer   complained they didn't even clear electricity bills of transfer stations and were resorting to generators and were also not paying salaries to their staff which was a big reason for their laxity. 
 
 After high court intervened,   had to replace Jyoti with Gurgaon based Eco-green and submit a written assurance that the new company will collect garbage from all wards and treat them daily in three months. 
 
 He claimed Jyoti Envirotech was supposed to take care of waste disposal in city and support Eco-Green till the time latter became adapted to the new system. 
 
 Eco-Green, however, claimed it had given in writing to LMC to collect waste from all 110 wards in 100 days after all the machinery and assets are transferred to it by Jyoti Envirotech.
 
