KOLKATA: Kolkata Police officers probing the accident that killed   on Saturday said there’s no need to record any more confidential statements of any witness or common friend of   and Sonika. The probe team felt it had all the necessary evidence. They spent Saturday mulling the possibility of slapping a stricter IPC section on Vikram.

 The cops were considering two things before taking the legal step. “One, we are depending on the confidential statements. We might move court once we get a copy. Two, we are waiting for some forensic reports. We will then ask Vikram to come for another round of interrogation. We want to ascertain that he was not consuming alcohol inside the car that night. Sonika’s viscera report, too, will be crucial,” said a senior officer. 
 
 Meanwhile, the cops have recorded the statement of the Ola driver who took   to the hospital. “He had maintained that Vikram was not really in a condition to speak much. Hence, it would be of little value to get his version recorded with the magistrate,” explained a source.
 
 Legal experts believe that there is now a scope that the prosecution can now slap section 304 (II). According to   lawyer V K Singh, “Section 304 Part II can be slapped if there are reasons to believe that the accused had knowledge that his act had the likelihood of causing death. To make a case against an accused of culpable homicide under Section 304 Part II, the prosecution has to show that the act complained of was done with the knowledge of it.” As a public prosecutor in Kolkata put it: “Vikram has claimed that he had consumed alcohol but was not drunk. Thus, it seems fit to conclude he was aware of the consequences of drunk driving.”
 
 The actor’s lawyer,  , in an earlier interview to TOI, had said: “To charge someone with Section 304 of IPC, three key factors must be proved: knowledge, intent and motive. Though these will be subject to cop probe, prima facie, the incident doesn't indicate any of the three. Sonika was a dear friend. It's perhaps fate that Vikram survived the crash with injuries, and Sonika didn’t,” he said.
 
 
