Visakhapatnam: As many as 300 cases related to corruption are pending for the last 20 years in 80 courts across the country, said central vigilance commissioner KV Chowdary, adding that around 3,500 cases have been pending for more than five years in different courts. Speaking to mediapersons on the sidelines of a programme on ‘Citizen’s role in fighting corruption’ organised at Port Kalavani Indoor Stadium in the city, Chowdary said around 5,000 criminal cases booked under the IPC and Prevention of Corruption Act are pending as of now in the country. He said the central vigilance commission has already urged the ministry of law and the Supreme Court to designate special courts in order to fast track the cases. Pointing out that cases have been pending in around 80 criminal courts in the country including at special courts for economic offences among others, he said the reasons for the delays include crunch in number of officers available to investigate and proceed with the cases as well as vacancy in various posts. He also noted that complicated legal procedures were also one of the reasons for the delays. He said many cases had been waived off as the cases were pending beyond reasonable time. Mentioning details of a survey conducted in the middle of 2015 to ascertain time taken to deal with a case, he said cases take as long as eight years to be disposed off. He said ideally, enquiry, fact-finding and disciplinary action should be taken up in a span of 18 months. He said in a re-survey conducted in 2016, it was found that the time taken for disposing cases is around 60 months. The commission is hoping to reduce the time to less than 20 months by the coming year, he said. Furthermore, he said the commission receives around 80,000 cases in a year out of which 2,000-3,000 cases involve those with actionable calls. He said the cases are forwarded to agencies such as the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) depending on the severity of the cases. He said with the Prevention of Corruption Act likely to undergo amendments, it will be tough on both bribe takers as well as bribe-givers. 