NAGPUR: More than 500 conductors of Red Bus operator struck work from 7am on Wednesday, bringing ‘Apli Bus’ -- the city bus service — to a halt. The strike is likely to have affected almost 1 lakh commuters who use the services every day. All the 210 buses remained off the road even though drivers did not support the strike.

 With their talks with the NMC not making any progress, the conductors plan to continue the strike on Thursday too.
 
 The conductors went on strike due to a salary dispute with the contractor Unity Security Forces who is assigned by NMC to look after the recruitment and payment. Representatives of Unity were not available for comments.
 
 Municipal commissioner Shravan   said that the talks with the agitating conductors had failed. “We had agreed to all their earlier demands and now what they are asking for is illogical,” he said, claiming that the conductors are being paid minimum wages. 
 
 “If they fail to resume duty by Thursday morning, the NMC will allow all the operators to appoint unemployed youths as conductors,” warned Hardikar.
 
 NMC transport manager Shivaji Jagtap said that the agitating conductors had refused to come for a meeting to the NMC headquarters. 
 
 The conductors blamed the NMC for the mess. One of the conductors and a member of the Maharashtra General Kamgar Union (MGKU),   said, “Unity Security Forces as well as the NMC are cheating and harassing us.”
 
 According to him,  , the ousted operator, used to pay Rs13,900 per month as salary and “we were promised Rs16,000 when the new operator took up operations”. “But now they say that we will be paid between Rs5,000 and Rs6,000 and that too in instalments of Rs500 to Rs1,000. This is not even weekly but as and when the operator feels,” said Shinde.
 
 The conductors received their salary few days ago after three months. “How can the contractor expect us to work for such a meagre salary, how will our family survive,” asked another MGKU member and Red Bus staffer  . “This is injustice against us.”
 
 According to Gupta, all conductors work for almost 16 hours a day. “Recently a conductor fainted due to overwork,” he said.
 
 Nizam Sheikh, another conductor, felt this was a violation of agreement between the contractors and corporation. “We should have made a proper agreement at that time,” he said.
 
 The conductors said they will resume duty only after getting a written assurance about their salary. 
 
 (With inputs from Praveen Tewari)
 
 
