NAGPUR: To curb man-animal conflict and strengthen corridors, the Local Advisory Committee (LAC) of   and Pench tiger reserves on Thursday mulled declaring sensitive patches in the corridors as ‘Green Zones’.

 The meeting was convened by LAC chairman and divisional commissioner Anoop Kumar. It was attended by   field director and CCF Rishikesh Ranjan, Wardha collector Shailesh Nawal, NGOs, district honorary wildlife wardens, and members.
 
 “Taking cue from recent man-animal conflict, we discussed strengthening of corridors by declaring sensitive survey numbers as ‘Green Zones’. These zones are declared by the district collectors. We will submit the details soon,” said Ranjan.
 
 The aim of   is to protect agricultural activity, preserve area for recreational use, and arrest urban sprawl. Although Green Zone is much like a forest zone, land falling under Green Zone can be used purely for agricultural activity alone for a number of reasons.
 
 If Green Zone in the Nagpur revenue division is declared then there would be relief in Tadoba, Navegaon-Nagzira and Pench landscape, as many detrimental activities will be prohibited. However, Anoop Kumar said since the minutes of the meeting have not been finalized yet, it is too early to comment on the issue.
 
 “But yes, we discussed the idea floated in the meeting. We talked about promoting Bor and Pench as hotspot tourist destinations, and how income of the people living on the parks’ fringes can be multiplied from tourism,” Kumar added.
 
 “A plethora of issues related to tourism, carrying capacity, relocation of villages, man-animal conflict vis-à-vis conservation of tigers, and strengthening corridors were also discussed. We have constituted sub-committees to decide about these issues,” said Kumar. The LAC also took up the issue of Pench poaching and illegal fishing.
 
 However, members attending the meeting said that since the agenda was not clear, and they were called at very short notice, much of the time went in discussing the role of LAC.
 
 LACs were set up for tiger reserves based on a SC order in 2012. The National Tiger Conservation Authority ( ) had asked states to constitute LACs and develop legislation to favour a community-driven and low-impact ecotourism in place of wildlife tourism, to maintain integrity and connectivity of tiger reserves.
 
 Kumar said the LAC will again meet by August-end to take up some concrete decisions based on discussions in the meeting.
 
 WHAT IS A GREEN ZONE
 
 All land is basically agricultural land, so all land not falling in any non-agricultural category is deemed to be agricultural land, whether it is used for cultivation or not. Where the area is primarily engaged in agricultural activity, the regional plan allocates the land of the area for agricultural activity and categories it as the Green Zone. Under such zone there will be restrictions on grey or non-agricultural activities.
 
