PUNE: In a first, women have applied to be bus drivers in the city’s transport body. 

 Officials of the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited ( ) said the transport body has received eight applications from women for the post of bus drivers. 
 
 While there is still time for the women to get behind the steering wheel, these applications have come as a ray of hope for the PMPML. Usually, despite the 30% reservation for women in jobs in PMPML, there were no takers. 
 
 “On Thursday, we had a trial run of all-women buses on certain routes. Some standard buses were operated on selected routes and they carried women to different destinations. The response has been good. With the recruitment of drivers going on, the PMPML is presently scanning more than 8,000 applications, and eight women have applied for the post of drivers. This is for the first time that women have applied for the position of drivers in the PMPML,”  , the general manager (operations) of the transport body, told TOI.
 
 Waghmare also said that with the all-women ‘Tejaswini’ buses set to be introduced in a few months, the PMPML is pitching for female drivers for these mini buses. 
 
 All seats in these Tejaswini buses, plying from 7am to 11am and from 5pm to 9pm, would be reserved for women. The buses would also be driven by women.
 
 “The eight women who have applied will now be sent to the ITDR (Institute of Driving, Training and Research) in the city for a two-day training programme-cum-test. The test is tough as they will have to prove their skills behind the steering wheel and complete some tasks. If they pass, one can see them driving a PMPML bus soon,” Waghmare said. 
 
 Waghmare also said that each day, close to 500 applicants were sent to the institute for the two-day event.
 
 In other parts of the country, the situation is much better. For more than five years, 32-year-old Sridevi has driven buses belonging to the North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation. 
 
 Asia’s first woman bus driver was also from India Vasanthakumari. She has been driving buses of the   for more than 23 years. 
 
