He has been at the receiving end for playing a key role in forming a post-poll coalition with the  . In a no-holds barred interview with 
 , Vijai Sardesai explains how it was a difficult decision, what he plans to do and how his party will not dilute its agenda. Edited excerpts:

 
 
 
 My contention is that we (Goa Forward Party) fought this election with no pre-poll alliance with anyone. The only moto we had was Goem, Goenkar, Goenkarponn. This slogan got us elected. Our strike rate was remarkable—winning three out of four seats we contested. It was our duty to take this agenda forward and for this we needed a stable government and preferably one that could get help from the Centre. We could easily make a choice. But we could not take the option AAP espoused. We were in a unique, peculiar and piquant position of having to choose between A and B.
 
 
 
 
 The option was a party overloaded with over ambitious grandfathers who are all ex-chief ministers vying to be next CM. A heavily factionalised Congress party that never counted us in the scheme of things, either pre-poll or post-poll. It is significant that on March 9, newspapers carried a statement by the PCC president (Luizinho  ) that he is going to form a Congress-led government in alliance with MGP and Goa Suraksha Manch and independents. GSM is a Hindutva outfit. He never said they will align with Goa Forward Party. We were not metioned. In this backdrop, the choice was becoming quite clear.
 
 
 
 
 Yes, But at the same time, to further our agenda within BJP, looked a difficult proposition. Which is why we thought that that leader who gave representation to Roman Catholic minority politicians on BJP list of candidates in 2012, was a viable option in keeping with syncretic culture of Goa that we espoused and so abundantly seen in Goa.
 
 I have on several occasions attacked Manohar Parrikar on so many issues but never ever called him communal or even made no personal allegations against him. In my speech, I always said we are proud that a Goan is at number 3 position in the Union government. One who had reached the highest level in the country politically. And that we should back him. Because Goa comes first.
 
 There was another factor. If we need to develop Goa the way we want it to be then the question comes of finance. At the moment, we are facing a difficult financial position and we felt that Manohar Parrikar, being the defence minister of the country, perhaps had good relations with BJP’s top leadership who are in the council of ministers, should leverage his position to make Goa benefit.
 
 With this in mind and with clear choice that we are committed to supporting a BJP-led government only led by Parrikar and no one else. This involved getting him to resign as defence minister which BJP readily agreed which showed their commitment to Goa and they were to sacrifice an efficient defence minister for the sake of Goa to letting their flag flying high in Goa and helping Goa in terms of central assistance. That is why we took this decision.
 
 
 
 
 It was a difficult decision. Many people had reservations about it. Within my party and also my family.  , hasty. We were still waiting for Congress to decide on their leader. The way the political scenarios were evolving, time was an essence. We had to take this decision in the way it happened.
 
 
 
 
 We stand firm on the commitment given by us. Because, we are self-respecting Goand and Goans are known to be keeping their word and not going back on their word like Dilliwalllahs. We cannot backstab a person who has sacrificed a position as high as country’s defence minister, to head a cabinet of which we are part of.
 
 
 
 
 No, not pre-planned as such but it was very much an option as I said earlier. But the statement of state PCC president (Luizinho Faleiro) in the media that he was willing to have alliance with GSM which is poles apart ideologically to Congress, especially with regard to their stand on medium of instructions or pro-Hindutva ideology, very clearly alienated us from further contemplating an association with the Congress.
 
 
 
 
 A comment of mine to a local TV channel gave an impression that it was pre-planned. To a question, I had made a statement that Parrikar is the most formidable CM candidate from BJP. I had not expressed my alternate choice in Congress. They knew my choice anyway.
 
 Tell me one thing, when you got the message that you are not wanted here, what would one do. The way Congress backstabbed me in 2012 (when he was denied the ticket in  ) and in 2017 (when it fielded candidate against him), implications of which were of career threatening. To finish me once and for all, politically
 
 See, I am a political animal. Am not a fool. I was quick to look at an alternative to think of Parrikar. Thought if I had to get Parrikar back, it would have been a proper lesson for them to learn. Remember, they never counted me. None from GFP. Only MGP and GSM and independents.
 
 When it comes to independents, why did the independent (Rohan Khaunte) who was supported by them went the BJP way. Perhaps, he was also convinced of the same reason like me. 
 
 
 
 
 Right, he is our good friend. He always wanted us together. But that was not significant to clinch the deal.
 
 
 
 
 I challenge Luizinho Faleiro to swear that he had never met Parrikar before the polls. Secondly, there is no action against the spokesperson of Congress who had charged just before the polling day that Faleiro had done fixing with BJP. That there were some joint ventures in some places.
 
 
 
 
 There are apprehensions among the minority communities that the BJP-led government would not be in their interest and that they would be at the receiving end. I need to point out here that seven out of 13 BJP MLAs are Roman Catholic, which means majority are Catholics.
 
 No 2, GFP has not merged with BJP. We have our own independent identity and separate agenda which talks about maintaining age-old communal harmony in the state and protecting the interest of the minorities. I want to reassure the minorities that they would never receive step-motherly treatment. If they do, I will be the first person to protest if any step is taken harming their interest. That’s why watchdog.
 
 
 
 
 It is Goanness. 
 is Goenkarpon. We are in the 50th year of the Opinion Poll. The reasons and struggle to maintain the separate identity should not be forgotten. Should be relived, with renewed vigour to ensure that our distinct identity should be safe and sound and not diluted.
 
 
 
 
 Prioritization of interest of the locals—sons of the soil—in government for jobs in public and private sector. Basically, Goa First is our agenda.
 
 
 
 
 Yes, the CM has already made statement on the coconut tree issue.
 
 
 
 
 I would request the CM to observe till 
 , Opinion Poll jubilee. We remember the famous slogan of 1967: 
 . It is not just fish curry rice but representing staple food of the majority of Goans. We have promised in our manifesto that fish curry and rice would be subsidised. We will push for it —to subsidise coconut, rice and fish and also pao. We also need to preserve the tradional occupations.
 
 
 
 
 This is what we have stressed and the CM has agreed.This will be included in the common minimum programme 
 . And implement certain things as early as possible. Hence, I am saying we are committed to establishing Goenkarwadi Sarkar.
 
 Importantly, we need to make Goa unique. Not yet another state. It is brand Goa that sells. For example, when Sunburn is held in Goa and Pune, why do more people come to Goa even if the infrastructure is better there? Because of the brand. It is brand Goa that sells. We need to take it forward. And the benefits should go to the locals. For this, Goa has to be clean. It is not a joke to say Goa should be clean. Or swacch Bharat campaign. It has to be implemented.
 
 
 
 
 We need to have a single authority to clean up. Currently, clearing garbage from the highways is done by Goa infrastructure development corporation. In the villages it is done by the panchayat or they are supposed to do it. In the urban areas, it is being taken care of by the municipalities and toursm department looks after the cleanliness of the beaches.
 
 Hence, I espouse for a single authority for the purpose. It can spend lot of money and earn a revenue too. Will also push for a plastic-free Goa. We also need to have standardised memorabilia. We need to project Goa as a high market destination and trendy. My suggestion is also to create serious conservation of heritage and Indo-Portuguese architecture which are fast disappearing due to fast urbanisation. We cannot be just another city or state. We need to be that destination people would love to come to. We are different going by the ethos and our hospitability. Our hospitability cannot be misused for hosting drug parties, for tarnishing fair name of Goa.
 
  
 
 
 
 
 Yes, I did that. Parrikar looks more mature and more responsible of what he is doing. I think Parrikar will not decide to abandon or keep his allies stranded midway. One, because it will affect his credibility. It is because of his credibility that we gave the conditional letter of support. I know he values it and he would not take any decision to harm his credibility and his standing as a statesman politician. We have discussed how to provide stable government and the assurances are worthy of being believed.
 
 
 .
 
 I agree that considerable amount of damage has been done to my reputation as a result of being attached to an alliance which is diametrically opposed to the ideology I espouse. I admitted to my constituents that the decision was taken without consulting them but not without proper thinking. Much thought was applied to it before we opted for BJP.
 
 The resignation of Vishwajit Rane from Congress 
  of Congress losing the number games in the assembly vindicates my stand that the Congress would not have been able to give a stable government. There would have been musical chairs which would have led to imposition of central rule, which in turn would have been a rule by Delhi babus. Hence, our decision to ally with BJP is vindicated. Time will show that we are worthy of the trust that will once again come to us and we plan to solve the endemic issues affecting Goa in a smallest time. Endemic issues like liquor bars along highways, new proposed highways, Mhadei, and of course infrastructure and also constituency-centric ones will be addressed.
 
 
 
 
 
 To replay in one sentence,I would say, the past is past and the future is Goa First. Everyone in politics has a role. Either in opposition or ruling, one must shine in one’s performance. In opposition it was my duty, to corner the government and I suppose I did that well hence, I was a subject of so many discussions.
 
 
 
 
 There’s a slogan—Desh Badal Raha Hai. Everything is changing. If it is changing for good, it is better.
 
 
 
