PUNE: The day and night temperatures dipped below normal in the city besides several other places in the state over the past few days, giving relief from the early March heat.

 Pune recorded the lowest night temperature in the state on Wednesday at 13.5°C. On Thursday, the city’s night temperature was the second lowest in   at 13.4°C, after Ahmednagar’s 12.8°C. The city was cooler than Mahabaleshwar on Thursday, as the hill station’s minimum temperature was 15.3°C.
 
 The active western disturbance causing fairly widespread pre-monsoon rain in some parts of the country pulled down the mercury column. The minimum temperature might dip further in the city but no rain was on the cards, said an official of the   (IMD).
 
 On Thursday, nine out of 10 weather stations in central Maharashtra recorded below-normal maximum temperature, while eight stations recorded lower than normal night temperature. The day temperature dipped in Mumbai, Alibag, Osmanabad, Aurangabad and Parbhani.
 
 The month of March began with above-normal temperatures across several parts of the state, when all weather stations in Maharashtra recorded high day temperature. On March 1, the day temperature in several parts of the state was higher than normal by 2°C to over 6°C. By March 5, several locations across the state started recording near-normal to below-normal day temperature.
 
 A Met department official told TOI that an active western disturbance had been affecting northwest India, the influence of which extended up to Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Delhi and even further south till Rajasthan.
 
 “The lower level winds associated with the system are quite strong. These winds are blowing into Maharashtra from the cooler regions of the north, which has resulted in a dip in day temperature in the state. The night temperature is also dipping, and it may decline further to 12°C on March 10,” the official said.
 
 The maximum temperature has been below normal by 1.6°C to 3°C at isolated places in central Maharashtra and a few places in Vidarbha. On March 9, the night temperature was below normal by 1.6°C to 3°C at many places in central Maharashtra and a few places in Vidarbha.
 
 Heavy rain and snow have been lashing the hilly states of north India over the past two to three days. According to the Skymet Weather Services, the rainfall is a result of a series of active western disturbances affecting the western Himalayan region.
 
