NAGPUR: Start-ups in the city are coming together to form an incubator under the central government’s   India Action Plan. The incubator will help the start-ups in availing benefits of various schemes under the Plan.

 As part of the initiative,   start-up Meet was organized on Monday. Founder of TechQurious Rahul Dongre, founder of With YOU Society Rohit Borkar, co-founder of With You Society Ankit Chawada, business development executive of TechQurious Manish Bharadwaj and Gautam Dongre organized the meet.
 
 Representatives of over 30 new start-ups attended the event and shared their business ideas, future plans, hurdles and expectations.
 
 Director of   (DICCI) Nagpur chapter Nischay Shedke and principal scientist officer of ministry of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) Pragati Gokhale and promoter Vijay Bhaladhare guided the start-ups about start-up India Action Plan and how to avail benefits of the schemes.
 
 Rahul Dongre told TOI that the incubator can help start-ups in becoming sustainable and expanding their business. “It was our first initiative to bring all at one place. We will organize an event to bring together start-up founders and investors on one platform. Process to register incubator will start once the government takes consent from all,” he said.
 
 Dongre said, “Over 50 teams of young entrepreneurs in the city are working in different areas like   (IT), automotive, education, telecommunication. Currently, there is no coordination among all. So, we need to bring all together and also like-minded people who wish to launch new start-ups.
 
 “We can become a job creators instead of job seekers if launch and sustain start-ups. Prime Minister   launched start-up India Action Plan to build a strong ecosystem for nurturing innovation and start-ups in the nation. But no one is taking benefit as there is no detailed information available. Incubator is like an association under which all will get information to take benefit of the government’s scheme,” he said.
 
