She is the voice behind the latest love anthem   from Mani Ratnam’s upcoming outing Kaatru Veliyidai.   says that she got extremely emotional during the recording of the song. “I just couldn’t hold back the tears. I really had a tough time keeping my emotions in control.” The   was in the city recently for an interactive session with the students of Dr GRD College of Science. Shashaa shares some interesting anecdotes from her life…

 
 
 My musical journey began when I was around six years old. I was living in Canada then and I used to sing for radio programmes. Everyone said I had a nice voice and I soon started performing on shows. I was studying to become a neuro surgeon and I dropped out of the course after I listened to the song ‘Jaage Hain Der Tak’ from the film Guru. The music churned out by the magician called Rahman, set my path for the future. You won’t believe I burned my books on medicine as I didn’t want to get tempted to go back. I soon packed my bags and came to India.
 
 
 
 I was only 18 when I moved here. I had my fair share of struggles and even spent three nights on the road. I participated in reality shows and auditioned for many musicians. That’s when a popular musician said that Í didn’t have it in me and that I lacked talent. That truly broke me. But they say in adversity lies opportunity. I stopped singing and started composing music. In fact, I even got singers like Javed Ali and Mohit Chauhan sing for me. That was when I got a call to audition for the genius  . I hadn’t sung for three years and my first reaction was ‘how am I going to perform’. I resumed by riyaaz and I got the opportunity to sing in Kochadaiyaan. There was no turning back after that. Everything fell into place.
 
 
 
 I do not see other singers as my competition. In fact, I try to learn certain things from others singers. Every singer is unique with their own set of values, talents and inspiration. When I go for a recording session, all I think is to fare better than the previous day. Every time I listen to a song sung by me, I feel I could have done this line better.
 
 
 
 There was a time when I had kept Rahman Sir’s photo in my room. I was madly in love with his music. Even when I was on my composing spree, I would always think how Rahman Sir would compose the tune. So, when I finally got the chance to sing for him, it was nothing less than a dream come true.
 
 
 
 The biggest challenge, of course, was that everyone knew the song and have been hearing it for more than two decades. Besides, the song was sung in male voice. I was slightly apprehensive as I had to do an entirely different interpretation of the song. The original song was quite upbeat and I had to make the new song sound tomboyish and at the same time, laced with romance.
 
 
 
 Working with different musicians has been a unique experience. A song is a composer’s baby and everyone creates it in their own style. They add a different essence to the song. It’s good to have variety. I listen to all kinds of music. It could be a Bhajan, keerthan or EDM.
 
 
 
 When I sing a song in a language I am not familiar with, I try my best to ensure that it doesn’t seem like I don’t know the language. I try to understand the emotions as well. I am in love with Tamil. Singing in Malayalam has been a bit challenging. But, Malayalam is a beautiful language and the industry has got some of the finest composers. I would love to sing in Malayalam, too.
 
 
