HYDERABAD: Uttar Pradesh chief minister  's ' ' is an idea borrowed from 'SHE Teams' launched by the Telangana government, said municipal administration minister K T Rama Rao.

 “We have introduced 'SHE Teams' and Yogi's 'Anti-Romeo Squad' in UP is based on what we are doing here,“ KTR said at a TRS public meeting that began a little before noon at Armoor in Nizamabad district on Thursday. Despite the scorching temperature, a large crowd turned up for the meeting.
 
 With the   (BJP) entertaining ideas of coming to power in the state, KTR also sought to remind everyone that the farm loan waiver being implemented by Yogi in UP, was successfully done in Telangana.
 
 “Yogi needs '36,000 crore for farm loan waiver. We have shown it can be done by waiving '17,000 crore for 36 lakh farmers,“ he said.
 
 The TRS public meeting, ' ', was attended by the party's public representatives from all levels in the district. From the way proceedings were con ducted, it became obvious that KTR was the second most important leader in the party, after his father and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. A 150-car cavalcade drove him into the town. Senior leader and   MP D Srinivas 'blessed' KTR. “He is the most active minister in the cabinet. As a senior I bless him,“ Srinivas said.
 
 It may be recalled that Srinivas was Pradesh Congress Committee president when the Congress had been in po wer between 2004 and 2009 in the undivided Andhra Pradesh. Subsequently, KCR wooed him into TRS and ensured his election to the Rajya Sabha. As Srinivas spoke, KTR rose from his seat to accept the blessings.
 
 It was a much-hyped visit of KTR to Armoor, the third in the series of meetings that he has addressed in recent days ­ one in Tandur and another in Kollapur.
 
 In response to the request made by TRS Armoor MLA A Jeevan Reddy and Nizamabad MP Kavitha, the minister announced `350 crore financial assistance for providing amenities in all the municipalities in the Nizamabad parliamentary constituency. “Before the bifurcation, Congress chief minister Kiran Kumar Reddy said Naxalites would take over if a separate state were to be formed. He was wrong,“ KTR said. He asserted that the TRS had provided a stable government since it came to power.
 
