Manali: Roping in senior leaders of the BJP and the Congress who are upset with their parties, Rashtriya Azad Manch (RAM) party, which has decided to contest Himachal assembly elections from all 68 seats, has finalized its two candidates. The remaining 66 candidates will be announced in a few days.

 “Renuka Dogra is our candidate from Kullu and Mehar Singh from Karsog constituency of Mandi. Three times zila parishad member Paro Devi could be their candidate for Sarkaghat,” national president of RAM party Satyavrat Bhartiya said.
 
 “We have almost finalized the list of 25 candidates. We shall announce names of all the candidates before other political parties,” he added.
 
 Renuka Dogra, who was Congress BDC member from Kullu, joined RAM on Sunday and became state president of RAM women cell. Dogra will contest election from Kullu constituency and said that she has been loyal to Congress for many years and was waiting for her turn to get a party ticket but the top leaders avoided her and hence she left the party.
 
 Many Congress and BJP workers who were not given any chance to contest assembly elections for years have been looking at RAM.
 
 According to Satyavrat, the party has a simple criterion. It wants that its candidates should be honest, educated and must have a zeal to do something for the betterment of the society.
 
 “They can be from any political party. Age is no bar. We do not discriminate between men and women. Candidates have made a long queue but our panel is choosing only the best. People of Himachal are tired of both the BJP and the Congress. People here are looking for a third alternative,” Satyavrat said.
 
 Both the major political parties – the Congress and the BJP — do not see RAM as a threat and only compare it with Aam Aadmi Party.
 
 However, given the fact and the pace with which upset leaders are joining RAM, it can impact either of the two giant parties at local level.
 
 Leaders of the newly-formed national political party have scheduled several meetings in each district in the coming days, and are requesting people to support them to get rid of the BJP and the Congress.
 
 The party is also contesting elections on the issues like religion, free treatment in government hospitals, education only in government schools, ‘one-flag, one-law, one-constitution’, corruption and employment.
 
 
