 has visited many schools and colleges in Delhi as a 'celebrity chief guest', but this college visit was a bit different. The actress was a guest speaker at Bennett University, sharing with BTech students the importance of teamwork and motivating them to pursue their interests while focussing on studies. Jayati has been coming to her hometown Delhi often to perform on stage and it was probably for the first time that she took out time to interact with students on different topics and talk about her own school and college days, and her passion for acting. "I love interacting with people and I have been chatting with many theatre students, but it was so exciting to interact with these students and share with them that while they are studying hard to make a career, they should also follow their heart and passion," said Jayati, who visited   for the first time.

  Jayati, who took a round of the campus before her session with the students, said, "The best part about this campus is that it has everything for an overall personality development of students. I was impressed with the state-of-the-art library and lecture rooms with modern facilities."
 
 
  
  
 
 
 "What we had in our school and college was so different, so this definitely looks very interesting to me. I also loved the huge cafeteria and kulhar ki chai and shakes that it serves," Jayati added.
 
  
  
 
 
  
  Jayati Bhatia at Bennett University in  
 
 
  
 Jayati said that one of her early learnings from theatre was about teamwork and that one’s focus should not just be to improve one’s own performance, but one should work closely with the team to complete the task successfully. "While growing up we only hear things like 'do well, class mein first aana hai'. We are asked, 'What's wrong with you, tum bhi toh coaching gaye thay' when we score less than others, so all of us grow up with this sense of competition. What is important to learn is that competition should be with one's own self, to better your performance every day. One important thing that theatre teaches us is that while our individualistic growth and development is important, we should not upstage any other actor. When you are working as a team you should give your 100%, so that not just you, but the team excels. So always remember that wherever you work and whatever you do, you should work with the team to achieve success. In theatre, we have many trust exercises as we need each and everyone's support and trust to perform any act. The actor may take the limelight on stage, but he would not be able to perform to the best of his abilities if he would not have people backstage supporting him and contributing in the act," she said.
 
  
 The actress, who plays Mataji on popular TV show 'Sasural Simar Ka', said she has been visiting a lot of restaurants and cafes with the show’s crew as part of shooting. One thing that she often notices is that people go out not to talk to each other, but only to click selfies. "For most youngsters having fun with friends is all about clicking pictures. Main bahut baar thak jaati hu sabki ek jaise pout karte hue photos dekh ke and I often wonder sab ek jaisa expression hamesha kaise de sakte hai. I think we should start talking to each other, rather than just exchanging messages on social networking sites," said the actress and added that technology has definitely made it easier for us to connect with people, but over time we are falling apart as human beings. "I think it is happening with all of us, we are always so overwhelmed by this technology that we forget what is around us. When I was driving from Delhi to Greater Noida, I thought I would watch a web series that I had downloaded on my phone while travelling. I did not realise that I missed out on looking at how much my city has changed while driving from Delhi to Greater Noida as I was busy watching shows. I watch the show 'Black Mirror' which depicts what technology does to you psychologically. We are forgetting the human touch as we are always busy with the virtual world," she said.
 
  The actress said that while it is good that everyone today has a platform to express their opinions on social media, one should learn how to be responsible on social media. "It is good to have opinions, but it is also important to understand the other person’s point of view. The moment we read any news, any update or anyone’s status, we just want to comment on it without thinking enough about it. I request you all to delay the response. Before you comment on anything on social media, take 10 minutes to think and understand what the other person is trying to say. Have your own opinion, but others are free to make their choices too."
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
