KOLKATA: In a bid to soothe the frayed nerves of the   and remove its misgivings about the intent of the West Bengal  , the   for   announced on Friday was stuffed with medics. 

 As many as seven members of the committee turned out to be doctors, the prominent among them being Sukumar Mukherjee, Abhijit Choudhury, and G K Dhali. The director of medical education will also be a member. It also includes two senior IPS officers.
 
 With seven doctors, a nurse and three from the non-medical field in the commission, chief minister   made it very clear that the doctors will get justice when it comes to cases of medical negligence. The 13-member committee headed by Justice Ashim Kumar Roy was formed a day after Governor Keshari Nath Tripathi gave the nod to the West Bengal Clinical Establishment (Regulation and Transparency) Bill 2017. Roy, who is retiring in few months from now, will be functioning as chairman subject to clearance from the  . In his absence, consumer affairs vice chairman and principal secretary Anil Verma will be holding the office.
 
 The prominent members in the committee include eminent doctors Sukumar Mukherjee, Gopal Krishna Dhali, Abhijit Chowdhury, Makhanlal Saga, Madhusudan Banerjee and Maitreyee Banerjee. Apart from them, ADG (law and order) Anuj Sharma and DC (south) Praveen Kumar Tripathy have been included in the committee to help in taking decisions on violation of law and order. “There is none from the political fraternity. We wanted to ensure transparency in the commission. So, we have tried to include people from different walks of life,” Mamata said at a press conference at the state secretariat on Friday.
 
 The state-level committee will be supported by similar committees formed in every district under the respective district magistrates and they will give their reports to the CMOH. “Give advertisements so that people come to know where to lodge the complaint in the district and in the state,” Banerjee instructed the officials.
 
 Assuring doctors that they need not be scared of the new act, chief minister said, “Some people are trying to confuse the doctors. If there is any case of medical negligence then state medical council will look after it. It was there from before. There is nothing to fear. The doctors who are working for the benefit of the people need not get scared. This is against some establishment who are misusing it.” 
 
 The chief minister said that there were around 2000 private healthcare providers and there have been complaints against only seven or eight of them. “If they rectify and provide treatment with a humanitarian outlook then there is no problem. Healthcare business and promoting business are not the same thing,” she said.
 
 The chief minister also warned the people not to take law into their hands. “If you have grievances you lodge your compliant with the Commission, but do not take law into your own hands,” she said.
 
 
