GHAZIABAD: A woman’s body was found hanging from the ceiling fan in the living room of her parents’ house by her younger brother when he returned from a nearby confectionery shop minutes after leaving the house to fetch refreshments in   area of   on Monday. The victim, Niraj (28), was left alone with her estranged husband and two other men who had come to visit her on the pretext of taking her back to her in-laws’ place.

 The woman’s family members have accused her husband Rachit (31), his brother Gaurav ( 29) and a third unidentified man of murdering her and then hanging her body from the fan to make it look like a suicide. 
 
 The woman’s brother, Navin Kumar (22), said she could not have killed herself as her feet were touching the ground while her body hanged from the fan. The body has been sent for postmortem and the report is awaited for clarity in the matter. “We cannot say if she was murdered as yet, but the matter is suspicious,” said Dhruv Bhushan Dubey, SHO of Modinagar police station.
 
 Navin said his sister was perfectly fine before he left the house to get refreshments. “This is a collective conspiracy involving all her in-laws who used to physically and mentally torture her to push their   demands through her. This entire incident is stage-managed,” Navin said, adding that when he returned he saw the three men fleeing on their bike and they did not answer ot return his calls.
 
 Niraj got married to Rachit in 2016. She soon became a victim of domestic abuse with her in-laws beating her and forcing her to ask for money from their parents. 
 
 “My sister’s mother-in-law Brijesh, her husband, her father-in-law Shivpal Singh and her brother-in-law used to torture her a lot. My father had given them money many times before as well, but they were still greedy. They threw my sister out of the house on May 18 and she has been living with us since then,” Navin said.
 
 Unable to bear the trauma of his daughter’s broken married life, her father passed away on March 1, according to her family members.
 
 An FIR in the matter is yet to be registered.
 
 
