BENGALURU: A date can do wonders to a  , say counsellors at the  . They may be right, if reunion statistics are anything to go by.

 Counsellors say couples on the brink of divorce are ready to give each other a chance with a final fling -and, often return, their minds changed. Like Sheila M, 25, and husband Suresh M, 30 (names changed) who filed for divorce within a few weeks of tying the knot. Their love marriage was struggling to survive the  .
 
 As per process, their case was recommended to Bangalore Mediation Centre for counselling. The hurly-burly of today's lifestyle, pressures of a joint family, work stress and lack of time had cracked the marriage and the counsellor's first dollop of advice to the disenchanted couple was to spend some `we time' -with an outing, a dinner or a movie.
 
 In another case, where the divorce was filed within six months of the wedding, meeting up at a public park regularly did the trick. The couple followed the counsellor's advice, and shared their problems with each other. At the next counselling session, they were ready for a reunion.
 
 Reunion cases at the centre are on the rise, and credit could be given to the innovative ways being used by counsellors.   Reddy, director, Bangalore Mediation Centre, said, “In most of the divorce cases that come to us, either the couple is not ready to compromise, or doesn't spend time together. Meeting at restaurants, parks or any public space gives them time to talk to each other and reconcile issues between them. It's helped patch up many matrimonial disputes.“ Reddy has counselled many couples to spend more time together and then decide their priorities. Each day, over 100 matrimonial disputes and other cases are counselled at BMC. “When couples come to BMC, they are furious, agitated and not even ready to see each other's face. We face problems calming them down and motivating them to spend time with each other. In some cases it works; but some couples remain adamant. A family outing or a date is suggested as a way to help them communicate.“
 
