GHAZIABAD: Two men were arrested on Monday for murdering a 24-year-old private sector employee in   on January 25.

  and old rivalry are being indicated as the reasons for the  . The accused have been identified as Nishant Chaudhary alias Andy, a resident of Sadarpur, and Nikhil Rathore, a resident of Sanjay Nagar in  . They were arrested from Kavi Nagar Block A tempo stand in Sector 23 late on Sunday night. 
 
 The murder weapon, a country-made pistol (.315 bore), two live cartridges and a white scooter used to commit the crime have been recovered from them.
 
 According to the police, they had CCTV footage of the crime in which the accused were seen following the victim, Vishal.
 
  They also spoke to some children who were playing in a nearby park the day the crime took place (January 25). The kids had given a physical description of the accused.
 
 “The scooter’s numberplate was covered in black ink and we tried checking in all the three places around Ghaziabad where this is possible. From there we got the number of the vehicle and traced the accused,” said Hemant Kumar Rai, SHO, Kavi Nagar police station.
 
 “The victim’s family had registered a complaint against unknown persons. When we showed them pictures of the accused, they identified them as possible suspects following which we arrested them,” Rai said.
 
 On the night of June 26, 2016, one Dheeraj, cousin of Nishant, was shot dead by unidentified miscreants. Dheeraj’s wife Preeti and one Varun, the brother of Vishal, were found guilty of the murder and are serving a sentence at the Ghaziabad district jail. “Varun and Preeti were apparently in an illicit relationship. However, Dheeraj found out, which is why Preeti and Varun planned to killed him,” Rai said. 
 
 Another person, Jaydeep Sirohi, who helped Preeti and Varun execute Dheeraj’s murder, has been missing since the day of the crime.
 
 Following Dheeraj’s murder there was tension brewing between his and Vishal’s family. They had also got into fights in their village. “The accused were looking for an opportunity to take revenge and had also scrutinised the victim’s whereabouts before killing him,” a police officer said.
 
 On January 25, Rathore told Nishant that Vishal would go to the ‘freehold’ park in Sector 23, Sanjay Nagar, that afternoon. The accused reached the spot around 12.50pm and shot Vishal from behind. When he started running, the accused, leaving their scooter behind, ran after him and shot him near his temple and fled.
 
 An FIR under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC has been registered at the Kavi Nagar police station and the accus-ed have been sent to judicial custody.
 
 
