Gurgaon: At least 200   licences in  , 150   and 15 high-end hotels among these, have become ineffective since April 1, prompting the restaurants’associations to demand that the city be treated as a case study by the Centre for the troubles that have befallen the hospitality industry across the country.

 In a city that has grown along highways, particularly NH-8, most hotels, bars, night clubs and restaurants are concentrated around these roads, including   and Sector 29, among the two most popular and worst affected places in NCR. 
 
 Cyber Hub, home to some of the fanciest Indian and international bar and restaurant chains, has gone dry since April 1 when the Supreme Court order that prohibits bars and eateries located within 500 metres of a national or state highway from serving alcohol came into effect.
 
 They face an indefinite wait, till the   department completes measurements and the government clarifies on the road ahead. In the meantime, sustaining business without selling alcohol, after paying huge licence fees and rentals, is another question altogether. 
 
  “Gurgaon is a representative case for the whole country because the highway runs across the city. There are around 200 pubs and restaurants, including 15 high-end hotels, which are not serving liquor following the order,” said Kapil Chopra, president, The Oberoi Group, during a meeting of the restaurant industry. 
 
 Other association members said talks were on with government representatives for a meeting with chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. They said the government too would lose crores in revenue and a way forward needed to be found quickly. 
 
 “The order has to be executed by the state government which is the biggest stakeholder in the matter if we look at revenues and jobs. Hence, it only makes sense for us to approach the state government for a solution,” said Rahul Singh, Haryana chapter head of the National Restaurants Association of India.
 
 The restaurant industry will go to the government with three main discussion points — the definition of a highway and if a highway that comes under a city’s municipal limits can be exempted from that definition, how distance from a highway is to be measured (motorable or as the crow flies), and a distinction between sale of alcohol and its consumption inside a regulated space. “It is our government and if do not approach the government, who else do we approach?” said Manbeer Chaudhary, president of the Hotels and Restaurants’Association of Haryana.
 
 Some states have already started the process of delisting highways under their ambit to neutralise the effect of the order. But the Haryana government is yet to make any such move. State finance minister Capt Abhimanyu, who also holds the excise portfolio, told TOI the government will do as the order says. as far as supporting the industry is concerned, it will be done within the ambit of law, he added.
 
 “We will go by the court’s judgement and as of now there has been no meeting at my level. But the officers are doing their job at the local level,”said Singh. Asked about the possibility of delisting highways, Singh said the state government has not explored that option yet.
 
 Meanwhile, ambiguity over the method of measurement continues and the excise officials told TOI the process is likely to start from Monday. Till things clear out, there will be no alcohol served at the affected outlets.
 
