BENGALURU: A fortnight after the Karnataka government promised uninterrupted   despite record low water levels in reservoirs, Bengaluru and neighbouring towns relying on   water have started bearing the brunt of water shortage.

 The water utilities are flooded with complaints of reduced water supply, low pressure and contamination.
 
 “In normal times, water is supplied for three hours from 5.30am. Nowadays, we get water for two hours, with low pressure. As a result, residents towards the end of the distribution line are not getting enough water, particularly those who do not have pumps to draw water.The quality of water is also a worry ,“ said KV Jagadish of the Hebbal Residents' Welfare Association.
 
 Frustrated residents alleged that the   has resorted to unofficial water rationing. The board denied the charge.
 
  chairman Tushar   said the complaints of reduced water supply and low pressure were mostly because of an increase in demand for Cauvery water owing to rising temperatures and failed borewells. We've been pumping between 1,300 and 1,350 million litres of water a day in February and March. We've enough water to meet the needs of the city. There are certain hiccups because of equita ble distribution. Water shortage and low pressure are caused as the board has been distributing water to starved areas, which rely mostly on borewells, by cutting down on the supply to areas getting more than their share,“ Girinath said.
 
 However, a top BWSSB official said water supply cuts would get more drastic if the drought worsens by April. He said the board is following the government's cue that water-allocation priorities should be rejigged to serve slum-dwellers too.“Old and leaking pipelines and some houses which pilfer water make the problem worse. Water tankers are becoming sparse and, therefore, expensive,“ he added.
 
 There's a silver lining, though. The 124.8-ft Krishna Raja Sagara reservoir has seen a happy and marginal increase in water level. As of Sunday, the water level stood at 80.45ft, far better than the recent low of 77 ft and a safe distance away from the dead storage of 74 ft.
 
