NEW DELHI: Over 99% of Indians aged 18 and above now have   cards as more than 111 crore residents have enrolled themselves for the unique identification number.

 The increase in enrolments will come as a boost to the government’s drive to make India a less-cash society as it is encouraging the use of AadhaarPay, a merchant version of   (AEPS).
 
 TOI had reported on January 23 that the 
  .
 
 Backed by the Aadhaar Act and 91.7% coverage of the total population, the government is set to accelerate the use of unique identification numbers in its social welfare schemes for disbursing entitlements and subsidies as it will help check duplication and pilferage.
 
 The government saved Rs 36,000 crore in two years even though the use of Aadhaar was restricted to a handful of schemes like PDS, household LPG supply and MGNREGA.
 
 “We all know Aadhaar was started by the previous government but at that time, it was only a digital identity. Under the government led by PM  , it has become a powerful tool of financial and future transformation,” IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said.
 
 “Aadhaar is also becoming a powerful instrument to bridge the digital divide,” he added.
 
 Sources said after the 
  ,   and its use for financial transactions saw a substantial jump.
 
 Aadhaar enrolment between March 2014 and May 2014 was 3-4 lakh per day and went up to around 5-6 lakh per day by October 2016. Since demonetisation, Aadhaar enrolment and update requests have been in the range of 7-8 lakh per day.
 
 Upbeat with the figures, Prasad said, “With demonetisation and   
  , Aadhaar is all set to become a game-changer with AadhaarPay where customers don’t need card, PIN, password or mobile as he/she can make transactions with thumb impression.”
 
 He said the BHIM app was linked with Aadhaar so that transactions could be carried out in a simpler and transparent manner.
 
 The minister said around 119 banks were connected with the AEPS and around 33.87 crore transactions had taken place through this platform. Prasad said people often raised concerns of privacy breach but the Aadhaar Act ensured privacy of people.
 
 
 
 
