NAGPUR: The   (NMC) disqualified BJP-led ruling alliance corporator Ishrat Nahid Mohammed Jalil on December 28, 14 days before the end of her five-year tenure. She was disqualified following a district court order as she was found violating the “not more than two children” norm for becoming a corporator.

 Now, Ishrat cannot contest the upcoming municipal corporation election. Even her husband Mohammed Jalil cannot contest the election. Both are leaders of   (IUML).
 
 The decision was taken by municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar. The five-year regime of corporators at the NMC came to an end on January 11 with the   imposing code of conduct for municipal corporations elections slated on February 21.
 
 However, the administration that otherwise publicizes every happening on a day-to-day basis, did not make the news public. TOI came to know about Ishrat’s disqualification while going through the candidates selected by IUML for the elections.
 
 In the 2012 municipal elections, Ishrat won as IUML candidate from Mahendra Nagar ward in North Nagpur in the panel of another IUML candidate, Aslam Khan. Ishrat and Khan joined hands with the BJP-led Nagpur Vikas Aghadi for ruling the NMC. The BJP even made her the chairperson of Ashi Nagar zone.
 
 Sources in the NMC told TOI that the process to recover remuneration paid to Ishrat has been initiated.
 
 In the order dated December 1, district judge Mohammed Sadique also asked the State Election Commission and municipal commissioner for holding a fresh election to fill the vacancy. “Ishrat’s election from ward no. 4-A of the NMC is declared as null and void. Also, it is set aside under section 15 (j) of the City of Nagpur Corporation Act, 1948,” the judge ordered.
 
 However, the NMC might not have gone for by-election as the code of conduct was expected any time in January.
 
 Congress leader Abdul Hamid Ansari had filed a petition against Ishrat on February 27, 2012, immediately after she was elected as a corporator. Ansari’s wife Zaheda Begum Abdul Hamid was defeated by Ishrat in the election. In the petition, Ansari also pleaded to declare his wife as elected from the ward.
 
 “The request of the petitioner to declare his wife Zaheda as elected candidate is rejected,” the court observed.
 
 As per the order, Ishrat had sworn and informed in the nomination form that she has two children. Ansari had obtained information under the RTI Act about Ishrat having three children.
 
 As per the State Election Commission’s norms, a person with a third child born after September 13, 2001, is not qualified for election. Ansari proved from the birth certificates obtained under the RTI Act that Ishrat’s third child, Arshiya Kausar, was born on March 1, 2005. Ishrat’s two other children are Farha Nahid and Shoeb, born on July 6, 1997 and June 11, 2001, respectively.
 
 Mayor Pravin Datke told TOI that he came to know about Ishrat’s disqualification on December 30. “It is not a setback for the BJP. I personally feel that all should contest the election with honesty. It is the responsibility of the administration to check the candidates’ details properly,” he said.
 
 Ansari said he would approach the police for registering an offence against Ishrat and her husband, who also contested the 2012 elections from another ward but did not win. “Actually, the NMC is responsible as it neglected proper investigation of candidates and also did not conduct an enquiry despite complaints,” he said.
 
 Jalil said the district court order has been challenged before the high court. “We will contest if we get relief from the HC,” he said.
 
 
