ALLAHABAD/GREATER NOIDA: The   has stayed allotment of flats in Supertech’s Czar project in  , taking cognisance of a plea by home owners alleging the real estate major built over 1,000 residential units in violation of sanctioned building plans.

 The court further directed on Wednesday that no   shall be created in any of the disputed flats. It clarified that if any third-party right has already been created, its possession cannot be transferred by the builder. But in case any buyer is given possession of the flat, it will be subject to the outcome of the writ petition.
 
 The petition, filed by V K Sharma and eight other home owners, was heard by a division bench of Chief Justice Dilip Babasaheb Bhosale and Justice Yashwant Varma.
 
 The bench also directed the Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority (GNIDA) not to issue completion certificates and take appropriate action in accordance with the law against the builder. It directed GNIDA to ensure one of its officers was present in court during the next hearing on February 8 to assist the judges with facts of the case.
 
 Supertech, however, said on Thursday it had violated no rule. RK Arora, the company’s CMD, told TOI, “We constructed the additional units after purchasing additional floor area ratio (FAR) from GNIDA in December 2014,” Arora said. “We have followed all norms and have submitted the same in court. The court has directed that no fresh sale of residential flats be done and no new possession be handed. We will comply with the court’s directions. We are confident of getting justice on the issue.”
 
 Czar is located in Sector Omicron 1, built over 20 acres that Supertech was allotted in 2006. Around 450 families live in the society.
 
 Home buyers in the project told TOI they had approached the judiciary when they did not get reprieve from GNIDA. “We have been agitating for over two years now. When we realized GNIDA officials are not going to help us, we decided to petition the judiciary,” said Arun Garg, vice-president of Czar Apartment Owners’ Association. “We welcome the court’s decision and are hopeful that we will finally get justice,” he said.
 
 Residents have accused the realty company of building 1,904 units instead of the sanctioned 844 units at Czar.
 
 The GNIDA, the residents said, had served a show-cause on Supertech for the alleged violation but taken no follow-up action. “We have only got lip service from the authorities,” said Amit Tiwari, a resident.
 
 Residents have so far written to the President, PM, chief minister Akhilesh Yadav, the UP governor, National Green Tribunal. “We highlighted that the builder had violated norms of the lease deed with GNIDA, Building Code 2005, UP Apartment Act 2010 and GNIDA’s bylaws,” said Deepak Sanwal, general secretary of the RWA. “But we have not received any help from anyone,” he added.
 
 “It is hard for us to believe that the GNIDA did not know what was going on right under its nose,” said Karunesh Joshi, another resident.
 
 GNIDA CEO Deepak Agarwal said, “We have yet to receive the court order but we will ensure complete compliance.”
 
 
