How Paris-based Indian filmmaker, screenplay-writer and novelist   got inspired to make the film   makes for an interesting story. “One day I went to a memorial and discovered that thousands of Indian soldiers died in   in France. A few days later I found a sack of books lying about the soldiers and about the war. One book, it was more like a French administrative missive just mentioned in passing that nearly 1.4 million Indian troops landed in France and Belgium to fight for the British Army during WWI. And when soldiers were sent behind the lines, they were received by French women. Friendships and sometimes love flourished between the soldiers and their French hostesses. Children were born of them, but they were outcasted. And they lived with the stigma throughout their life. Coming from the world of fiction, I felt I found my story,” says the director of internationally acclaimed films like  ,  ,   and  . 
But Vijay had no intention to direct yet another wartime romance. “I wanted a realistic touch to the film, so I set out in quest of a descendant of one such Indian soldier,” says Vijay who didn’t realise that it will take two-and-a-half years to find one. “I got in touch with an antique collector who gave me the lead of a lady who approached him 15 years ago at an exhibition. She was trying to find her grandfather who was an unknown Indian soldier. I contacted a local journalist who wrote an article on about my search for this woman who had attended this exhibition 15 years ago. There was no response. We did another article. This time we got a response from a 75-year-old lady,   who claimed to be the lady from the exhibition. She still had pinned her hopes on finding her extend family. It took me half-an-hour to convince her that I am just an Indian director, not the other side of the family,” recalls Vijay, who thought of casting the 4th generation descendent of the unknown Indian soldier as the protagonist. “But she was not fit for the role. So I casted  , a French actress as the daughter of Monique. On behalf of her grandmother, Paloma tries to put together the story of the brave soldier who came to help their nation and fell in love with her great grandmother,” says the filmmaker who relied on rare archives of historical testimonies, 100-year -old Indian war songs and 600 letters written home by these soldiers which were censored by the British, to tell the story. “The letters were like an anthropology of the war that offered fascinating insight about liberty, equality and fraternity. Accounts of how the French women looked after them like mothers, how they accompanied them to churches were moving. Some even described how these French women made love. There were even some tragic letters from India written to them saying that they sold their wives for `50 to buy another for `40. These show the penuries of the war where they were forced to trade women. But what’s painful is that these soldiers came to help the French in the hour of need, but they didn’t want to tell the tales of their hearts. Their children lived a life of stigma and their families still hesitate to own up their Indian origin. I felt this when I first met Monique’s sisters. She was very warm but her sisters were a bit reticent. They were worried about the society; that people would talk about them being half-Indian. It was only at the end when the French defence minister organised the Paris premiere of the film that they all came as a family and went up on the stage. For me it was a very moving moment, as if they were performing the last rites of their grandfather,” says Vijay.
 
 
 Talking about the taboo Monique Soupart says in the movie: “I was five-and-a-half months pregnant. I was rushed to hospital. I needed a blood transfusion. But there was no match for my blood group. The nurse asked me, are you sure you are French, because you have foreign blood group. A few days later my grandmother visited me. I said, how strange I have foreign blood group. She didn’t say anything, she remained silent. Then I had a flash. I remembered her telling me that my father’s father was not his real father. I found that really strange. Especially I had been told that I have foreign blood group. So I confronted my mother. She confessed, yes, your grandfather was an Indian soldier. My mother did ask my father about it, but he never answered. He was always silent. From all that he told me about his childhood I had no more doubts. He was treated differently. He was raised by his grandmother. When he went to his parents’ house, he was ignored. He was forbidden many things. He never spoke of his dad. He never mentioned his father. But he did say ‘mother’. He was always an outsider. His parents never invited him to dinner. I never saw him eat at his parents’ house. Never, not once.”
 
