KOLKATA: Even as the world embraces electric cars, the state transport authority is going out of its way to discourage citizens from buying the environment-friendly modes of personal transport. For the past five months, attempts to register electric cars at the Public Vehicles Department in Kolkata have been foiled by absurd arguments from transport officials that exemplify red tape in bureaucracy and government. Over a dozen electric cars purchased by customers, including five by Kolkata Police, are awaiting registration since January. Several customers are even paying EMI without being able to use the car they have bought.

 That is because the Public Vehicles Department is insisting the company declare the cubic capacity of the car's engine despite Mahindra Electric officials trying to reason that it cannot do so because its cars don't have engines and run on batteries. Though there is a central subsidy of around Rs 1.24 lakh on electric cars, they still cost nearly twice a petrol or diesel car, and hence, the EMI is that much more.
 
 “The RTO of West Bengal has raised a unique technical requirement for registration of electric vehicles.This needs to be worked between the central government and certifying authorities. We are working on all fronts, including with the West Bengal RTO team, to clarify the specific and unique requirement. We hope to close this issue in the near future so that our customers can outsmart pollution,“ said Mahesh Babu, chief executive of Mahindra Elec tric that manufactures the five-door E2O Plus.
 
 Nirmalya Roy Chowdhury, who lived in Seattle, US, decided to buy an electric car despite the premium because he didn't want to burden the city's already toxic air quality. “Hybrid and electric cars are gaining popularity in the US and rest of the world. So when I had to buy a car, I decided on electric as it is the future. But the mindset of people responsible for registering the cars is still trapped in the past,“ said Roy Chowdhury . Electric cars, like the two-door Reva and Mahindra's E2O have been sold and registered in Kolkata in the past. That was before Vahan e-Services were introduced in January . Assistant director (technical) at the Public Vehicles Department, Gobinda De, said there were multiple issues. “In the new Vahan registration platform, data has to be entered on the vehicle's engine capacity in cc and horsepower in bhp. M&M was giving the power in kilo Watt hour (kWh) and not bhp.
 
 Since then, they have done some calculation and submitted the power in bhp, they are yet to give us the engine's cubic capacity ," he said.
 
 Physician Manasi  , who has purchased an electric car but is unable to take delivery , wondered how PVD officials could make such an irrational demand in a day and age when even children know that electric cars don't have conventional fossil-fuel based engines whose capacity can be calculated.
 
 “India has electric cars for nearly two decades now. I had a Reva too. There was no problem earlier when electric cars were registered manually . How are regional transport authorities in other states registering cars on the same platform without encountering the kind of hitch that PVD is unable to resolve for months?“ she questioned, clearly ex asperated at the situation.
 
 Assistant regional transport officer (registration)   said the PVD could do little until the tax structure of the vehicle being registered gets uploaded. “Without the engine's cubic capacity , the tax does not get computed.We have told the National Informatics Centre that is in charge of the portal about the problem but it is still unresolved,“ he said.
 
 Regional transport authorities in other states are generating the tax sheet by entering zero against engine capacity. But PVD officials have steadfastly refused to do so till there is a written directive from the ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH). M&M, on its part, has sent three letters to MoRTH but the deadlock persists.
 
 For the likes of Goswami and Roy Chowdhury who continue to be penalized for no fault of theirs, the wait continues. The cars continue to get depreciated as they lie in the company stockyard.
 
