MUMBAI: An inquiry of 200 roads in the city has revealed that there are no   in six of them. Base layer is an important part of a road as it absorbs traffic load. A committee that conducted the inquiry has found that contractors have done   during  .

 Though the others had base layers, most of them were constructed in a shoddy manner. Out of the remaining 194 roads, the base layers of 99 had 1-25% of materials missing while in 62 cases, there was a 26-100% discrepancy. Out of the 200 roads under inquiry, only 39 were found to be constructed perfectly.
 
 The report, which is the second phase of the road inquiry, was submitted to civic chief Ajoy Mehta by the panel, headed by additional municipal commissioner Sanjay Deshmukh, on Thursday. Mehta on Saturday recommended police action against the contractors who are responsible for the work.
 
 Officials said the base layer is not visible and hence, it is easy for contractors to compromise on it so that they can maximize their profits.
 
 Mehta has put a note on the report stating that “discrepancies seem very serious and are a reason for the sorry state of the city's roads. In view of largescale irregularities, criminal liability has to be fixed. Issue show-cause notices to blacklist contractors concerned“. The file has been retur across the city in last three years. In the first phase, the committee probed 33 roads and found up to 53% discrepancies.A police case has been registered against six contractors and 25 persons, including a contractor and a   chief engineer (road), have been arrested. In second phase of the inquiry, the committee had collected samples of 200 roads.
 
 The discrepancies in the base layers has stumped senior civic officials. “They just did resurfacing of the existing roads instead of its reconstruction,“ said an official.
 
 The municipal commissioner has said that the missing base layers have been affecting condition of city roads and the entire costs involved in the reconstruction work has been a loss to the civic authority . After the discrepancies came to light, the contractors have insisted that the civic authority calculate the amount of material missing in the base layers and deduct that much amount from their payment. However, the civic authority has refused to accept the request and held back their Rs 1,000 crore work payment.
 
 A total of 16 contractors were involved in reconstruction of the roads that were probed by the inquiry committee.Thirteen of these contractors are likely to face action. Six of them are already accused in a police case filed on the basis of the first road inquiry report.
 
 
 
 
 The inquiry reveals a sorry state of affairs, with civic officials failing to detect gross irregularities in road works.They were clearly hand in glove with contractors to loot public money. It is time an effective system of checks and balances is put in place to prevent recurrence of such scams. With the new civic body in place, it would be an appropriate time to make corporators accountable for such scams as they are a part of the statutory committees that approve civic works.
 
