Union railway minister   may have announced a slew of measures, including delegation of power to strengthen the execution machinery, but the situation will not change unless there is a massive revamp of the colonial-era  , which lacks professionalism and is ill-equipped to carry out major modernisation.

 In a bid to place efficient officers in cutting-edge posts, a major   was planned by   as   minister to drastically alter selection criteria for key posts of divisional railway managers (DRM) and general managers (GMs) by introducing performance and merit. But the proposal was rejected by the cabinet committee on appointments (ACC). The plan for cadre restructuring to cut inter-departmental rivalry was also brushed under the carpet.
 
 Many in the railways felt short-term measures and knee-jerk reactions may not work and the minister must push forward the plan to make the appointment process transparent and broad-base the selection panel by introducing merit. “This will also cut departmentalism,” an official said.
 
 An officer said, “The system of appointments is based on seniority and annual confidential reports (ACR). But in ACRs, most officials are rated as ‘outstanding’.”
 
 The tenure of GMs is two years and most officers retire from the post; very few become railway board members.
 
 “There is little motivation for officers to take risks and make drastic changes in execution,” said a railway official. He added, “You can’t expect much dynamism from an officer who is on the verge of retirement. The general mindset is to retire ‘peacefully’.”
 
 An official said the plan was rejected by top bureaucracy, while a refined version of the old appointment system based on seniority was approved. “Though the appointment process was made more transparent and eliminated discretion, seniority was intact as a key tenet,” he added.
 
 To make the appointment process for DRMs transparent and performance-oriented, it was proposed that aspirants be interviewed or there must be interaction with a bigger selection board or panel, and they must present a roadmap for the two-year tenure as head of a division. “The aspirant has to come up with a plan for development of stations within the division he wants to be posted in, and also the strategy to boost railway business,” said an official. “The aspirant’s plan will also be used for performance appraisal at the end of the tenure,” he added.
 
