NAGPUR: Several Bachelor of Arts (BA) first semester students could well lose a year, thanks to the perennial apathy of   led by Vice Chancellor SP Kane. After being marked absent in the winter exam, the students on Monday were asked to take re-exam a day before commencement of the summer exam. 

 The aggrieved BA students approached TOI complaining that they have been allegedly cheated by the Nagpur University. They were shocked to find that they have been marked absent in some papers after their result was declared on March 29. One of the students was marked absent in all the five BA subjects by the university.
 
 On March 26, TOI had reported about the inordinate delay by NU in announcing the BA first semester results. 
 
 Despite taking over two months, the NU failed to bring out result without errors. After students pointed out the flaws in their marklists, the exam section officials advised them to fill wanting forms and promised to issue fresh result as soon as possible. Accordingly, the students submitted the forms along with their hall tickets and marklists on March 30, a day after the result. By Monday, the General exam section had received around 50 wanting forms.
 
 But, instead of providing immediate relief, the exam section made matters worse by asking students to opt for re-exam, though the last date was April 3. The summer exam for BA first semester backlog students is starting from Tuesday. Now, the students are in a dilemma whether to bear the brunt of additional expenses in the form of super late fee or wait till the NU issues fresh marklist. 
 
 “We were promised of quick action but now they are backtracking and asking us to go for re-exam. The deadline is long over. They say they are still ready to accept the forms, but it will attract a super late fee. Why should we suffer for no fault of ours,” they asked.
 
 VC Kane and director,  , Neeraj   didn’t respond to calls. 
 
 Pro-VC Pramod Yeole said no one from the colleges or the exam section approached him regarding this issue. “If students or colleges had approached me, I would have ensured the problem is resolved immediately. On Tuesday, I will check with the director of   and Evaluation.”
 
