After the hectic poll campaigning, leaders and candidates of various political parties were, on Monday, busy working on strategies and urging voters to exercise their franchise

 Campaigning for the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) elections ended on Sunday and polling is scheduled for Tuesday.
 
 The leaders and workers of the parties, along with the candidates, were busy connecting with voters through personal contact and also visiting their homes to provide citizens with voters slips. 
 
 The parties issued instructions to polling agents, both inside and outside the booths, on the nature of work they were supposed to focus on. 
 
 Shiv Sena city chief Ajay Boraste, said he held a discussion with the candidates and workers about polling day preparations. “We sought feedback from candidates whether they were facing any difficulties like providing poll agents,” he said.
 
 Boraste said the poll climate was good and that the party was expecting a good voter turnout. 
 
 “I have told the candidates and party workers to get in touch with people they know and urge them to cast their votes. The mood within the party is relaxed since we had a successful campaigning,” he said, claiming that Sena will get majority in the NMC. 
 
 Like Sena, its arch rival in the civic polls, BJP also discussed the management of polling booths with the candidates and party workers, who went door to door to deliver voters slips.
 
 City BJP chief Balasaheb Sanap said, “Our campaigning was good. We discussed and adopted a strategy on how to get maximum voters to exercise their franchise on polling day. Our party candidates and workers handed over voters slip to the citizens. All the party candidates made all-out efforts during the campaigning and they are confident of winning the civic polls.”
 
 City Congress chief Sharad Aher personally met the party candidates and reviewed preparations for polling day. “It is difficult to predict the mood of the voters. However, we are confident the NCP-Congress alliance will come to power in the civic body,” he said.
 
 The NCP leaders seemed relaxed after the gruelling campaign. The party’s city chief Ranjan Thakre said that all the candidates are happy and confident of victory.
 
 The cadres of the MNS camp distributed voter slips among people while their leaders and candidates sat and planned booth management and how to send voters to the polling stations.
 
 “We had good poll campaign for the civic polls. Party candidates are in enthusiastic mood due to good public rally of our leader Raj Thackeray,” MNS spokesperson Avinash Abhyankar.
 
 
