Dr  

 It may sound complicated, but the term diverticulo ses is self-explanatory. It describes the formation of small pouches(outwards) from the wall of the large   (colon), which are called diverticuli. Anatomically these resemble small finger like projections which pop out from potential weaknesses in the intestine, forming dead ended blister or sac-like structures. More than 75% of patients who have  , remain asymptomatic. Diverticulitis happens when food or faecal matter during its transit onwards gets lodged a diverticulum and it gets infected.
 
 Since the descending and   are more prone to diverticuloses, the attacks of infection are seen to cause severe pain, particularly in the left lower abdomen.
 
 One of the precipitating factors for diverticuloses is chronic constipation with its resultant push over the years.Thus patients who have a low water, low fibre and poor residue diet, are more prone to have their diverticuli fill up and get infected. Again, diverticuloses is more common in the obese and elderly.
 
 Patients usually learn to recognize the pain, which is essentially on the left part of the abdomen, but can radiate to the opposite side, back or groin and is often moving.This can be associated with `gas', nausea, vomiting and even diarrhoea. Experienced patients decipher this sub-acute attack, refrain from eating solids, rest their bowel and often improve over a few days. However repeated attacks over the years leads to more diverticuli formation.Such patients can then, develop narrowing of the colon, which can cause symptoms of intermittent obstruction.Another dreaded complication within these pouches is infec tion and pus collection(abscess formation).This can rupture outside the intestine into the abdominal cavity .
 
 If the abscess is small it can get spontaneously walked off but when large, the outpouring of pus can cause a condition called peritonitis. This is a surgical emergency . Acute diverticulitis is an emergency with high fever and shivers, pain, vomiting, and blo od in the stools besides usual symptoms.
 
 It requires intravenous antibiotics and flu ids, hospitalization and rarely, surgery .
 
 However in most cases, patients suffer from repeated attacks which are symptomatic for a few days and with quick intervention, are seen to resolve. Patienets who have experienced it earlier, automedicate themselves successfully The diagnoses of diverticuloses is incidental (in the asymptomatic patient) on a scan, or barium study or colonoscopy , done for another reason. Acute Diverticulitis is always diagnosed on a colonoscopy . Patients are told to have high fibre diet and, if necessary, use of innocuous bulk laxatives like husk is encouraged, to ensure smooth bowel transition. Adequate water intake is mandatory . Attacks which last longer and pain beyond the ordinary , merit immediate medical attention. Rarely widespread and chronic diverticuloses may need surgery with resection of the affected segment.
 
 While classically not a lifestyle disease, diverticuloses erodes the quality of life and can be curbed with astute dietary alterations. If you cannot be the `Bahubali of your symptoms, you can have a `Sarkari' regime to regulate them.
 
 (Dr Hemant Thacker is a consultant physician and cardiometabolic specialist attached to south Mumbai hospitals. His email id is dochpt@gmail.com)
 
