COIMBATORE: While premixes for cakes, brownies and cookies have always been popular with working women and busy homemakers, they are slowly becoming popular among bakeries also. Premixes that allow bakeries to save time, labour cost and eliminate human error are becoming a primary ingredient among even major bakery chains. This has prompted companies to launch premixes even for products like puff pastries, lava cakes and multi-grain breads.

 A decade ago, Pillsbury brownie mix and Betty Crocker fudge cake mix were the only premixes in the market. They were a blessing for busy mothers, homemakers and even women who could not bake.
 
 “The mixes are a heaven send, as we only had to add eggs, oil and water,” said K Priya Ganesan, a human resources personnel, whose office often conducted potluck lunches and dinners. “The taste and the softness of the cake also never go wrong. It takes only five minutes to prepare and less than an hour to bake,” she said.
 
 While the brands extended their product list to include different flavours and types of cake and cookies, over the years, the premix concept began becoming popular among major bakeries and cake shops. At the ongoing bakery expo at  , there were at least three to four distributors and sellers of ready for various products including puff pastries, food colours, icing and even multi-grain breads. “Around five years back, there were hardly one or two bakery chains buying our products. But today, it has grown to 30 bakery brands. If you consider outlets, it would be around 200 to 300 outlets,” said V Aravindh, proprietor,  . 
 
 “Business has grown by 300%. In Coimbatore alone, there are at least 22 distributors and 10 brands of such premixes,” said a sales representative of Parisons, a Kerala-based brand of cake premixes.
 
 Using premixes has become a part of a growing concept among bakeries to consume less time and increase profitability. “Using premixes eliminate the time and effort it takes to buy ingredients, the cost of using skilled labour and the risk of the taste varying,” said Vishak Venketeshwaran, who runs Vs café in Saibaba Colony. 
 
 “However, any product produced in a largescale with a long shelf-life is bound to contain preservatives and additives,” he said.
 
 However, to cater to the growing population of pure vegetarians and vegan young mothers and working women, a few gourmet bakeries are now experimenting with cake premixes, which come without any preservatives. “I had tested a chocolate cake mix with my clients by giving it to a lot of young mothers to get their feedback and try out a new line of products. It is vegan and eggless, so can reach a larger base,” said Aanchal Zaveri, who runs Chocolate and Such Bakery in R S Puram. “I am now working on the packaging for it and also planning to come up with premixes for hot chocolate and cookies,” she said.
 
 Harshini Jaychander, a homebaker who bakes under the brand  , recently made a ready mix for chocolate chip cookies, as a return gift order for a group of teenagers. “I was informed that they were all interested in cooking and baking, so I made a mix, which required them to add just egg and butter, make the dough and then bake it. It got good feedback and seems to be growing in popularity,” said Jaychander.
 
 
