MYSURU: The row over the shifting of Centre of Excellence for Studies in Classical Kannada from   (Mysuru) to Bengaluru has finally ended with CIIL authorities deciding to retain the centre in Mysuru.

 A decision to this effect was announced by CIIL (Mysuru) director prof D G Rao during the inauguration of a two-day workshop on ‘Visioning workshop and project preparation’ being organized by Centre of Excellence for Studies in Classical Kannada (CESCK) at CIIL auditorium from Monday. “The centre will be retained in Mysuru. It will be temporarily housed in University of Mysore campus, and will be shifted to an independent building later,” he said.
 
 “There are two groups of intellectuals — while one wants the centre shifted to Bengaluru, the other wants it retained in Mysuru. Recently, the issue was resolved during Planning and Monitoring Division (PMD) meeting, where it was unanimously decided to retain the centre in Mysuru. University of Mysore has given a temporary building where the centre will start its activities. When the land is allotted and a separate building is built, the centre will be relocated to the new facility, where it will work with an autonomous status,” he said.
 
 Speaking on the status of other language centres in the country, Rao said that Kannada classical language centre is the second centre which was established after the Tamil centre. For Telugu, the centre was allotted when Andhra Pradesh was united.
 
 “As the state has now been split into Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, MHRD will decide where the centre will to be established. For Oriya language, the state government has agreed to allot a space for the centre, and the related work will start soon. Authorities from Kerala government have not approached for a Malayalam language centre. If they approach, we will work out the modalities for that too,” Rao said.
 
 Rao suggested that Kannada centre authorities should invite experts from various branches of Kannada language and sit together to chalk out plans so that the plan can be explained before the ministry and funds can be allotted in the budget.
 
 Speaking on the occasion, Central University of Karnataka (Kalaburagi) vice-chancellor   said that the state government should appoint a liaison officer to chalk out plans and demand funds from the central government for the centre.
 
 Maheshwaraiah, who had earlier worked as CESCK director, said: “A roadmap to fill sanctioned non-teaching posts, to translate Kannada literature into English and other regional languages, to start a Kannada journal, to recommend writers who are working for Kannada language and literature in India and abroad for the President of India Award, to digitalize works and to draft an action plan for central funds should be prepared by experts during workshops.”
 
 Kannada Development Authority (KDA) chairman S G Siddaramaiah said that issues pertaining to the classical-language status to Kannada and NEET are clear examples of power politics.
 
 “Indian Constitution speaks equality of all regional languages. But due to politics, the central government awarded classical status only to Tamil language. But only when other states protested, the status was awarded to Kannada, Telugu and Malayalam. Similarly, students were denied to write in Kannada NEET initially. But after protests, students were allowed to write the test in Kannada. No MP from the state raised their voice on the issue in Parliament. Politics should never interfere in matters regarding languages, water and land,” he said.
 
 Senior Kannada scholar   said that all the 15 branches in classical Kannada centre have been grouped under separate units, where small- and medium-term research are taken up. The time frames of research are in the range of three months to three years.
 
 
