NASHIK: The police have arrested nine persons in connection with the violence that erupted at the counting centre in Panchavati division on Thursday night. Those arrested were produced before a city court on Friday and have been remanded in two days police custody. 

 As many as eight police personnel were injured during the violence that erupted at   stadium - one of the counting centres - at around 8.30pm. The Panchavati police said a mob of over 800 people had gathered at the counting centre on Thursday, objecting to the counting process.
 
 The police resorted to lathi charge to disperse the crowd. However, with the agitators retaliating by indulging in stone pelting, the police had to fire four rounds in the air to disperse the mob.
 
 The counting process of division 1, 2 and 3, that started at the Meenatai Thackeray stadium at 10 pm was getting stalled by one or the other reason and candidates expressed dissatisfaction over the counting process.
 
 Many candidates alleged that the BJP was resorting to manipulation of votes to get their candidates elected. Meanwhile, all eyes were on the result of MLA  's son, who was contesting from division 3.
 
 Residents of Panchavati started creating chaos after objecting to the counting process of Prabhag 3. At around 8pm, the residents of Panchavati area came together and started shouting slogans.
 
 Though the police appealed to the agitators to calm down, the situation started getting out of hand following which the police used batons to disperse the crowd. As the agitators started running, some of them started pelting stones following which the police had to shot four rounds of fire in the air.
 
 Senior police officials, including commissioner  , DCP  , and   rushed to the spot along with the striking force and riot control teams. The Panchavati police said they have arrested nine persons including Vishal Kadam, one of the candidates in the fray, who lost the election.
 
 Those arrested have been booked under various sections of the IPC,   and the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act.
 
 
