GOA: It’s hard to come by a   without the  . While   is usually the go-to preparation for the catch of the day, the tangy and spicy recheado masala doesn’t lag far behind.
 
  Recheado is a thick red paste, equal parts tart and pungent. It features heavily in a Goan household while pan-frying seafood. It pairs well with prawns and does just as well stuffed in mackerels. While shallow frying, the seasoned seafood is cooked halfway through before some of the reacheado is added, allowing it to wrap itself around the fish and make its way into every crevice. Some bits burn, but that adds to the overall flavor. You could also slit open the fish--- mackerel, perch, pomfret, there are few limitations--- and stuff it with the masala.
  
  The reacheado is usually mixed with minced onions, coriander leaves and chilli before it fills the fish. Vegetarians need not be disappointed, ladyfingers stuffed with the red masala make for a delectable side dish too.
  
  While variations of the masala are plenty, the base essentially remains the same-- Kashmiri chilies, garlic, spices ground in vinegar. Depending on the quantity of spices added, the flavor will vary. In addition to cumin and peppercorns, some use cinnamon and cloves. And depending on where in Goa you sample the masala, the amount of sugar increases. North Goa keeps it robust, but as you meander towards the south, the paste gets sweeter. A little bit of tamarind also finds its way into the blender. All of it is ground to a fine paste with vinegar, never water.
  
  As with all spice blends, there is always a distinct ingredient or two. In this case, it’s Feni. Housewives have been known to add the local white spirit to increase the shelf life of the masala. Adding to the peculiar taste that comes with reacheado territory is coconut vinegar. While white vinegar is completely acceptable, there is a peculiar zing that only coconut vinegar brings.
  
  Once ground, the paste keeps for a very long time, months even. For storage purposes, glass and porcelain jars are preferred over plastic ones as it alters the taste of the masala due to the high acidic content.
