Curious to know the forensic details which helped nab the criminal behind the Soumya murder case? 

 Have the guts to see a live surgery? Well, drop in at the ongoing health care expo at Thiruvananthapuram Medical College premises. Touted to be the country’s largest artistic healthcare expo with around 55 stalls, the carnival is organised by the Kerala University of Health Sciences and the Thiruvananthapuram Medical College.
 
 The exhibition organised by various departments of the college showcases a journey from the cell to the brain which showcases the practices of the modern day health sector to the common man. The mega expo includes more than 1000 exhibits depicting normal to medical variants, including original specimens, animation and videos, medicinal illustrations and posters, virtual documentations, interactive learning devices. The specimens displayed include original internal organs of the human body, disease patterns and microscopic views of various bacterial organisms. The other attractions of the one-month long event are mega walk-ins that include human organ system, huge replicas of sense organs, procedural cabins like operation theatres, intensive care units and transplantation units, while the molecular world of cells and genetics were presented through 3D graphics in LED screens.
 
 With a life-sized compartment of the train Ernakulam-Shornur 56608 the Forensic Science stall replicated the forensic samples collected from the crime scene. “The Soumya murder case was significant as the case was mostly discussed for its forensic evidences recovered. So we found it to be an ample example to represent the forensic artefacts that would play an important role in solving a crime. On display we have a dummy of Soumya’s mortal remains after she was pushed on the railway track and the importance of DNA samples and how DNA finger print is collected. The public, especially the students, school and college goers were curious about knowing the facts,” says Rameesa S, a second year MBBS student and pavilion volunteer. 
 
 Elaborating the foetal stages of a human being, the specimens exhibited by the Pathology Department of the college exposed the public to the foetus during pregnancy, the developing foetus affected by complications and an original placenta were a few among the exhibits. Shanthilatha Sajeev from Orissa who is eight months pregnant, says that the event was indeed very informative. ”It was indeed a fruitful exhibition for me as I am expecting my baby soon. I got to know many medicinal aspects of vaccinations, communicable diseases, childcare and pregnancy complications which I should be aware of. Though my gynaecologist has informed me about almost everything, observing those things in this expo through pictorial and specimen pieces was great.”
 
  Another highlight of the expo is the stall by the psychiatry department where mental disorders like psychosis, hallucination and delusion are explained through screening of films.
 
