LUCKNOW: By bringing  , the new tax system has dealt a double blow to the industry—cost of   garments and products has gone up 25-30% and on the other hand, artisans are on the verge of being rendered jobless. 

 According to traders, with  , the process and equipment for chikan embroidery is costlier, so until the picture is clear they are not placing any fresh orders. Dealers said   has led to a hike of 25-30% in the   and other items. “Chikan goods have been exempted from tax since Independence but now government has put them in the taxable category of readymade clothes. Chikan garments below Rs 1,000 will now come under 5% tax bracket and those costing more will be taxed at the rate of 12%,” said Pramesh Rastogi, member of the Akhil Bharatiya Udyog Vyapar Mandal. 
 
 A Nazirabad chikan shop owner Gopal Kumar said, “Under GST, fabric and yarn are two most essential items for the business and are now taxable at the rate of 5%. Though cost of needles has been brought down it will hardly make any difference in the overall increase. We will also have to start paying 12% service tax for employing artisans for various steps of manufacturing chikan clothes.” There are 11 processes before the embroidered cloth finally reaches the customers, including cutting, sewing, printing, embroidery, washing, ‘charak’, etc and more than six workers are employed at each step, so there is bound to be a proportionate hike in the cost of garments, he added.
 
 Besides crippling the business with an increased cost of the final product, the move has hit artisans to a great extent. 
 
 Arshiya Ahmad, an artisan said, “We hardly earn Rs1,800-2,000 a month and once the new tax plan comes into effect, the shopkeepers’ burden will pass on to us. They will either reduce our payment per-piece or cut down orders, any which way we will suffer.” There are 3.5 lakh persons of very humble background earning a livelihood from the chikankari business.
 
 Another worker Rabia lamented, “GST is only going to make our lives more miserable as even if shopkeepers pay us less we will have to keep doing it because this is our only source of income. The government should have been compassionate towards us because GST will burden each person in the trade, be it businessmen, artisans or consumers.” 
 
 Co-founder of Sewa (Self Employed Women’s Association) Runa Banerjee said, “After GST, there is an overall increase of 28% in stitched as well as unstitched chikan clothes and within few days it has led to a drop in sale. Earlier, we had to pay no tax on fabric and yarn but now they are taxable and this would cut down production of chikan garments in the state. The government should have shown some consideration.” 
 
