A few day ago, I read about a 
  in which a speeding   Dzire suddenly changed its lane and rammed a  , which in turn swerved to the left hitting a  . The driver of the   was a killed on the spot.

 Little did I know then that I will experience a similar thing.
 
 This happened at the Noida-Greater   on Thursday evening. I was coming back in a cab after watching a movie with family from Noida Sector 18. As soon as I reached the Expressway, a Swift car flashed its headlights from the right side, wanting to overtake our vehicle. 
 
 The driver moved aside, but the Swift passed our cab dangerously swerving and bumped on the right side of our vehicle. I thank my stars that our driver was skilled and was able to control the car quickly; I was also lucky that no speeding vehicle was coming from behind.
 
 We immediately checked each other; I was most concerned about my three-year-old son who was pointing towards his head and saying "lag gayi (I'm hurt)". Thankfully, there was no visible wound. The driver pointed towards the road and I saw the Swift had slowed down. My driver started speeding up, the person driving the Swift too realised that and rushed away from the scene.
 
 The Swift was also in violation of traffic laws which prohibit putting tinted glasses on the windows of a car. The police were duly informed; they were very helpful and even offered to send an ambulance. After this harrowing experience, all of us were shaken but soon regained our senses and after a brief chase, I also clicked the photograph of the car.
 
 The point of my writing this is that the Expressway is increasingly becoming unsafe, even for those who are well below the speed limit (my cab was at 60kmph when this happened). There are CCTV cameras, but as soon as we cross the Mahamaya flyover, there are no police cars on the entire road. This gives people an opportunity to over speed, putting others' lives in danger. The drivers normally wait as soon as they cross Amity (while going towards Greater Noida) so that they can speed up. This is something that the authorities should look into so that another Lamborghini-type incident can be avoided.
 
 
 
 
 
