City cosmetologist  , 31, is perhaps the only woman from Nagpur who has taken up professional body-building since the past two years. Having been a top 10 finalist for  , she won the title of   in the women’s section this year. At the Senior National Women’s Bodybuilding Championship held in Indore and Gurgaon, she was placed 2nd and 4th, respectively. 

 Having joined   recently, Bhagchandani already has over 7000 followers. Her efforts were recently recognized by the Sindhi community, and she was felicitated with a shawl on Cheti Chand, the Sindhi New Year. 
 
 In an interview with TOI, she discusses the scope of the sport in Nagpur, what it is like to be a woman bodybuilder and a mother. Excerpts...
 
 
 Bodybuilding is about looking good aesthetically and showing symmetry. It is known as ‘sports physique’ abroad, and has various categories such as ‘figure’, ‘super muscular’ and ‘super lean’. It is all about building your strength and your muscles. It is a game of patience and passion. I am gearing to participate in Dubai Muscle Show and the world championship. I am very excited to be participating for the first time at the prestigious Amateur Olympia which is also happening for the first time in India. 
 
 
 After the delivery of my child, I had put on 80 kgs and had become really unhealthy. I contracted thyroid and backache. I had messed up with my body. I wanted to be very strong. So I started going to the gym and slowly veered towards bodybuilding. I have been practising lifting every day of my life for the past seven years. And I’m pursuing it because it makes me happy.
 
  
 
 My family was really unhappy. They would say things like, ‘yeh gym mein padi rehti hai’. My father-in-law is revered in the community and is a head of the RSS in  . He was okay with me going to the gym, but he would keep asking why I wanted to compete. I told him, “Give me a year to prove myself”. I told my father too, “One day you will be proud of me”. My mother used to cry and ask me to stop going to the gym. Luckily for me, medals and recognition came my way. We, as a family, are not distanced but have differences of opinion at times.
 
 
 There are two types of struggles — external and internal. Sindhis usually are into businesses and aim to make money. So my decision was a shock to the entire community. You have to defend your passion to your in-laws, to the society. Wearing a bikini was seen as a taboo. But the main struggle is changing yourself. The struggle is within me and I fight every day. Over the years, I have developed a coping mechanism. When I feel I am not looking good, my husband Shyam infuses confidence in me. I am a mother once I enter the house. My child Jheel is now a grown-up girl and has adapted to my profession. She pushes me to work out. I was a pure vegetarian but turned to eggs and chicken as they are the only source of rock-solid protein. When the community felicitated me, it was the best award from all the ones I have got. We keep thinking ‘log kya kahenge’ but my physique has got me respect.
 
 
 In Nagpur, there is not much scope for bodybuilding. There are no doctors specialized in treating bodybuilders in the city. There is also no one to make costumes and no preparation coaches. Most girls and women join gym and their target is usually to lose weight. They only practice on the treadmill. They don’t practice lifting as they’re scared they’ll lose their ‘femininity’. But lifting helps you to build muscles where they are needed, making you more aesthetic. Lifting also helps in anti-ageing.
 
