GURUGRAM: The   (DHBVN) on Thursday slapped a fine of Rs 36 lakh on Huda and MCG for illegally drawing power, a step the discom said would set a precedent for consumers resorting to power theft.

 This was exposed, according to discom officials, when they conducted a surprise inspection across the DLF area on Thursday morning.
 
 “When we inspected the MCG’s water boosting station at Sikanderpur around 4am, we found that it had been running on direct power connection. We tried to trace the meter, but realised that there was none,” said  , sub division officer, DLF city. Nehra said the station was drawing 35 kilowatt load. “The load was high. We slapped a fine of Rs 27.19 lakh on MCG,” he said.
 
 Discom officials said they found streetlights of Huda drawing power without installing meters at two places, one near Neelkanth hospital and another near  .
 
 “We imposed a fine of Rs 9,40,000 on Huda. The streetlights were drawing a load of 14.5 kilo watt. Collectively, Huda and MCG drew around 49.88 kilo watt load through direct lines.
 
 “We have issued notices to both Huda and MCG,” he said. However, MCG executive engineer Gopal Kalawat told TOI that he hadn’t received any such notice from discom. “I cannot comment on the issue since it hasn’t come to our notice yet,” he said. 
 
 Nehra also said the discom had caught a total number of 93 instances of power theft on Thursday and slapped a penalty of Rs 60,28,000 on violators. “Today we could recover only Rs 7,0056 as penalty. We will recover rest of the amount later.” Official also said they have filed 24 online FIRs.
 
 DHBVN superintendent engineer KC Aggarwal told TOI that the step should set a precedent for every consumer who resorts to power theft. “We will take strict action against violators for power pilferage. The step taken by our office underscores our attempts of not discriminating against anybody. Whosoever is involved in thefts will be penalised,” he said. 
 
 None of Huda officials, whom TOI tried to contact, respond to queries. 
 
 
