   was working on the terrace garden adjacent to the fifth-floor office of   at Aspirations Vintage on Thursday when the fire broke out.With the door leading from the terrace to the building shut, 21-year-old Sital was unaware of the development till onlookers from another building drew his attention. By then, thick smoke had engulfed the corridors, cutting off the escape route. What followed thereafter was an act of daredevilry spurred by desperation. Like JJ, played by Pran in the 1978 Amitabh Bachchan-starrer 'Don', who used a rope to escape from one building to another, Sital did a Spiderman to clamber to safety after neogitating the 30-ft gap with a 50-ft drop. Minutes later, he recounted the great escape to TOI. 

  I was tending to flowers on the open terrace and didn't know there was a fire raging below. Since the terrace door was shut, I couldn't hear the commotion. Nor could I see the smoke that was swirling inside the building. I was still watering the plants when I heard shouts from the building across at 12/1 Pretoria Street. There were several people who had gathered and were looking at me with horror. It was one among them who alerted me about the fire on the third floor and urged me to immediately rush down. 
 
 Dropping the water hose, I rushed to the door that leads to the stairs. But as I opened it, smoke billowed out. It was so thick and black that it blanked me out. I could not see anything. It was impossible to access the stairs. 
 
 I slammed the door shut and looked for an alternate escape route. There appeared none at first. Almost 50-ft above the ground, the next-door building that was barely 30-ft away seemed too distant. But with my life at stake, I felt it was a risk worth taking. 
 
 I shouted to the men who had alerted me, asking them to get a sturdy rope. While they were arranging the rope, I leapt down 12-ft to the fourth-floor terrace.
 
 The men had got hold of a thick rope by then. I asked them to tie it to the railing and throw the other end to me. I tied the other end to a railing and clambered over it to make the crossing. Some advised that I should wait for firefighters to rescue me. But I wasn't confident of help arriving on time. 
 
 As I stepped over the railing and braced for the crossing, people began to cheer and shout words of encouragement. I took a deep breath and started for the other side. 
 
 Midway, my muscles began to ache terribly as I hung on for life. For additional support, I threw my legs over the rope and monkey-crawled the rest of the way, hanging upside down. Finally, I was at the other end and the people hauled me up, cheering lustily. 
 
 Apart from minor scratches sustained while jumping down from one terrace to the other in the same building, I escaped unhurt. The first thing I did once I was safe was call my father. It is only later that the reality of the risk I had taken dawned on me. It was sheer adrenaline that had driven me into the act. Now, I feel goosebumps recalling the  . 
 
  - As told to Sumati Yengkhom 
 
 
