Hyderabad: In what can be seen as a major move by Kolkata-based Srei Infrastructure Finance Limited (Srei) to take over control of debt laden city-based   Limited (DCHL), Srei managed to get the approval of DCHL shareholders to appoint five directors it proposed at the extraordinary general meeting (EGM) held here on Monday. The EGM, that was conducted at a hotel opposite DCHL's office in Secunderabad, lasted for over half-an-hour and was attended by around 80 shareholders. 

 The five directors, whose appointment was cleared by shareholders, are Manoj Mohanka, Sabina Inderjit, Shamik Roy, Prashant Mustii and Dipen Chatterjee.
 
 Ganesh Prasad Bagree, senior VP at Srei Infrastructure Finance Limited, who officiated at the EGM, said the five directors are from diverse fields and will bring in different management skills required to run DCHL, which is currently in a financial mess.
 
 “Now, the next course of action for us will be to approach the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) with this resolution. If the tribunal approves, we can move very fast… we are hopeful that NCLT will give its nod as this (the appointment of directors) has been approved by the shareholders. This entire process may take up to three months,” said Bagree. Along with Bagree, company secretaries -- R Siva Rama Reddy and Gopi Reddy Malyadri – who were appointed by Srei as scrutinisers, were also present at the EGM. 
 
 Srei will have to seek approval from NCLT as the body had earlier issued an order stating that no board meeting can be convened and the composition of the DCHL board cannot be changed.
 
 On being asked if Srei wants to take over the beleaguered Hyderabad-based company, Bagree said, “We want to strengthen the company…not take it over. We are not replacing the current management… they will be there. Huge debt has to be settled… we have to seek information from them." Srei currently holds 24% in DCHL with 6.60 crore shares. 
 
 Incidentally, none of the DCHL promoters were present at the EGM, raising the hackles of the shareholders.An anxious DCHL shareholder Jagjit Ahuja, said, “Where are the original heads… where have they run away… They have to be caught because this is not the way companies are run.” The other shareholders also quizzed Srei's officials on how the Kolkata-based company plans to revive DCHL in case NCLT approves the appointment of the five directors. Bagree told the shareholders that the first step will be to seek information from DCHL about the overall legal cases, its debt situation and the present financial position and only after that they will be able to work towards the revival of the firm.
 
 Srei seems to have got second-time lucky in the case of DCHL as in 2015, it had mooted a `compromise scheme' that called for the lenders to waive off 75% of the DCHL debt but the proposal was rejected by the DCHL lenders.
 
 This time, Bagree pointed out that even ICICI Bank (which has also claimed to be the largest DCHL shareholder) too is on board. “We have discussed with them and they are also in line with us ... otherwise they could have come and voted against it,” he added.
 
 
