Be it the planned purchase of a house or a hurried hop to the fruit vendor, if you don't take a calculated shot at bargain ing, you probably can't stake claim to the Indian genetic pool. Though online sales and snooty malls have drastically pared down the opportunity to negotiate, there's still scope to hone your skills while buying high-value items like houses,  , white goods, electronics, even furniture and apparel.
Follow these 10 tips to nail the art of bargaining as you start shopping for the festive season.
 
 
 
 Whether you are looking for a house, car or an appliance, research is the foundation on which bargaining power rests.Never go blindly into a negotiation. “Go with enough preparation of products and market pricing. The more the preparation, the lesser the risk of being taken advantage of,“ says Prerna Kohli, Delhi-based psychologist. Narendra Agrawal, a surgeon at a renowned hospital in the  , agrees. His passion for cars has spurred him into honing his bargaining skills. He buys one every two years and conducts clinical research for extensive spans of time to ensure a bargain. “It helps to constantly keep searching, comparing prices, checking mileage, etc,“ he says.
 
 
 
 Outlining a budget and sticking to it is essential because this will define the extent to which you stretch a negotiation. The ability to say no and walk away is a powerful leverage and can turn the talks in your favour. Noida-based Shikha Nayyar, an entrepreneur, never swerves from her budget. “I don't beat around the bush and if the dealer doesn't agree, I simply go to the next dealer.“ She doesn't have to do that often as the seriousness of her intent almost always gets her a good deal.
 
 
 
 
 The bargaining skills are almost as important as the time at which you apply them. So, while it's a good idea to shop during the festive season, you could get better discounts on cars at the end of the year because the new year means the next year's date on registration, which will fetch a better price in a re sale. Month-end or year-end are also good times to buy as stores have to meet their targets and would be more willing to get rid of the inventory at a higherthan-normal discount.
 
 
 
 “At all times, be respectful and speak nicely,“ says Anil Agrawal, VP, Retail, in a private organisation, and a good bargainer for electronic appliances. It never pays to lose your cool because you cannot take the right decision when upset. Besides, you may have to return to the same shop for other purchases and a bad rapport never made for a good bargain. Also, make sure never to be impulsive. Even if you like something, don't let the salespeople in on it as it puts them at an advantage. If they do realise, “be upfront about wanting it, but only at a particular price, thus giving an impression that you are not an impulse buyer and mean business,“ says Kohli.
 
 
 
 
 “Non-verbal cues like gestures and postures communicate your true attitudes and intentions and account for about 55% of the message conveyed,“ says Kohli. These, along with facial expres sions, can not only give the salesperson cues about your intentions, but also vice versa. “So, as long as the salesperson is maintaining eye contact and smiling at you, he is paying attention and is interested, but the moment he starts looking away or scowls, it's a clear sign he is not interested in making a deal. That's the point till which you can bargain with him,“ says Agarwal.
 
 
 
 It often pays to bargain hard, but it is equally important to connect with the salesperson in a way that he is willing to offer you more than he would other customers. There are two ways you can do this: find a way that will offer him long-term benefits or charm him in a way that he finds it difficult to refuse.For instance, if you agree to buy in bulk or provide regular business, he is sure to offer a deep discount. “Since my business required me to buy LCD TVs in bulk, I offered to pay via EMIs without a down payment. Since the shopkeeper knew I would come back for more business, he agreed,“ says Nayyar.
 
 
 
 
 Another good strategy to increase your bargaining power is to zero in on any flaws or defects that may not affect the product's functionality or usage, but is nevertheless enough to demand a sizeable discount. It could be as small as a scratch or dent, or even an unsuitable location for a house.
 
 
 
 After you and the salesperson have agreed upon a price, a smart move is to climb up the ranks and press for a further cut. “Once the salesperson has been stretched to the maximum, I make him speak to the store manager, who has the authority to offer additional discounts,“ says Agrawal. Nayyar agrees. “I almost always eliminate the middle man and go directly to the stakeholder,“ she says.This is probably the reason that she managed to get a `12 lakh studio apartment for `10 lakh after insisting that the property dealer speak directly to the builder. “When I told him that I would pay the entire sum instantly if he agreed on `10 lakh, the owner perceived my seriousness and agreed,“ she says.
 
 
 
 
 Even after the final price has been agreed upon, there is scope for a further discount at the final stretch of making the payment. “Look for discounts if you make on-the-spot payments by cash, cheque or  , instead of credit card,“ says H.C. Sogani, a 65-year-old chartered accountant, who is adept at getting good bargains for white goods, electronics and furniture. “At the time of billing, I check for free   and cashback offers.If the seller accepts cards, I check with him if he can offer any cash discount in lieu of the card fees. Finally, I check the offers on cards and wallets like Paytm, PayZapp, etc,“ says Agrawal.
 
 
 
 
 Despite prolonged discussions on price, there may be times when the deal falls through. Don't feel guilty about taking up too much of the dealer or shopkeeper's time, and simply leave. At other times, you may have played up the attractive prices by a rival dealer, threatening to take up his offer. If the salesperson does not budge, be prepared to walk away. Don't get so attached to a product that you find it difficult to leave.“I am very confident and know my limits. So if one dealer doesn't give me what I need, I simply move to the next one,“ says Nayyar.
 
