JAIPUR: To decongest   (SMS) Hospital, the health department is strengthening facilities at other   in the city.

 The number of beds in Sethi Colony satellite hospital will be increased from 50 to 100. Besides, an orthopedic unit from   started providing services at   from Thursday. This will be continued on a regular basis.
 
 The orthopaedic unit, comprising professor (orthopaedics) Dr M K Yadav, assistant professor Dr Rajkumar Harshwal along with two medical officers, one senior resident and five junior resident doctors, have been deputed for the purpose.
 
 “The full unit of orthopaedics from SMS Hospital has been shifted today to Kanwatia Hospital,” said Dr Mohan Meena, superintendent, Kanwatia Hospital.
 
 Besides, health minister Kalicharan Saraf also inaugurated an automatic refraction machine, used in ophthalmology, at Sethi Colony satellite hospital. Saraf said that a donor has agreed to spend over Rs 2 crore to add one more floor to the existing building of the hospital. This will help in increasing the bed capacity from 50 to 100 beds.
 
 The hospital’s principal medical officer Dr B L Meena said that an ambulance was also inaugurated by the health minister.
 
 Around 800 to 1,000 patients come to the outpatient department of the hospital daily. But, it does not have ICU facilities.
 
 Though it has an operation theatre, only minor surgeries, which do not require an ICU for post-operative care, are conducted.
 
 Moreover, the hospital has a long way to go before becoming a full-fledged hospital as it still lacks basic facilities. It does not have parking space and patients along with the hospital staff have to park their vehicles outside the hospital. Also, there is a need to connect with main sewerage lines.
 
 Apart from these, the post of gynaecologist has been lying vacant for more than two years. A total of 23 doctors are posted in the hospital, specializing in orthopaedics, ophthalmology, ENT, forensic sciences, medicine, paediatrics, pediatric surgery and general surgery.
 
