How do you find out if an aspiring bureaucrat's vision is in sync with that of the party in power at the Centre and the state? Well, it can perhaps be best confirmed from their performance in civil service exams.
Lakhs of aspirants, who appeared for the   (PCS) preliminary exams held on September 24, found that the questions had a strong reverberation of the schemes and programmes launched by the Narendra Modi government.
 
 Flagship schemes of the NDA government, including Ujwal Discom Assurance Yojana (UDAY),   and Augmentation Yojana (HRIDAY), Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) and Swachh Bharat Mission, featured prominently in the PCS examination paper.
 
 While the positives were highlighted to a large extent, those who set the question papers made sure schemes that were heavily criticised -demonetisation and GST implementation -were out of the ambit of the exam.
 
 “Even I feel that the central government schemes have been projected quite a lot in the provincial services examination,“ a member of Uttar Pradesh Public Services Commis sion headquarte red in Allahabad told TOI on the condition of ano nymity .
 
 Kumar, a can didate who appe ared the third ti me for the PSC exam at Allahabad, said, “It is an attempt to glorify the government's achievements.“ Recalling exams of previous years, Kumar added that he has never seen a question paper dominated by central government programmes. The prominence of the Centre's schemes could be seen in the question in which the candidate was asked to arrange schemes in chronological order of their launch. The options included Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana, Digital Gender Atlas for Advancing Girls' Education, Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana.
 
 Yet another question that required candidates to list schemes in chronological order included Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana, Atal Pension Yojana and Make in India. The question on Swadesh Darshan Scheme asked aspirants development of which circuit -Heritage, Sufi, Ramayana or Coastal -was not included in the scheme.
 
 Urja Ganga Gas Pipeline Project and requirements of Startup India also got a mention in a couple of questions.
 
 Asked about dedication given to the Modi government this year, UP   secretary Jagdish Tripathi expressed his inability to comment on the issue.
 
 He told TOI that the commission has no role in setting the examination paper and people are hired from outside for the purpose.
 
 This year, 2.46 lakh candidates appeared for about 400 vacant PCS posts for the year 201718. The PCS examination has 20% horizontal reservation for women candidates.
 
