In Taiwan on a whistle-stop promotional tour for his movie ' ', which hits theatres today,   showed no trace of fatigue, considering he was in Germany and then the United States just a couple of days ago. Looking clean-cut in a black jacket, the actor, in an exclusive chat with BT, said that while he was sad this would be his last outing as  , he was also happy to bid farewell to the character he has played for 17 long years.

 “I felt certain and right that this would be the last one. I didn’t know how I’d feel about saying goodbye initially, but when I sat next to Sir   and director   while watching the movie in Berlin, I grabbed Patrick’s hand, wiped away a tear and felt so much emotion. It felt gratifying, relieving and satisfying. It was a good feeling. I was fully invested in the movie — I knew it was my last chance. There was not a day of filming where I didn’t throw everything at it. I’m not anywhere close to Logan in real life though. I’ve always been touched by the character, he’s got a good heart and has been through hard times. But thankfully, my life does not echo his. I’m fine and much happier as I get older,” he smiled, touching the skin coloured band-aid on his nose — the only reminder of having his sixth basal cell carcinoma removed a few days ago.
 
 Will he miss working with Stewart after all these years? “Yes, I’ll miss being on the set with him. When I first began work on the franchise in 1999, I was a little starstruck and dreamed about doing Shakespeare on stage with him. Over the years, we’ve become close and good friends — almost like family. I’ve learned about acting, how to be on the set and live life from him. If there’s anyone who has perfected the art of living, it is Patrick,” he said with a smile.
 
 While the warm camaraderie the two men share is obvious when you see them interacting with each other during sessions with the press — there was lot of witty repartee and playful jokes — there is a third important character in the movie, who ably stands alongside them. British-Spanish TV child actress  , who makes her cinema debut with 'Logan', lights up the screen with her presence. What were the challenges of working with an 11-year-old actress, we asked Hugh. “Dafne is an amazing actress, you can take away the 11-year-old bit. Anyone who knows anything about acting knows how difficult it is to play a part with barely any dialogue. And yet to watch her go from this killing machine to someone opening up to love and relationships was brilliant. She was focused and hated being told at the end of the day that her work was done. She’s going to have a long career. People often ask me who’s going to take over the role of Logan and I tell them to just watch the movie. There may be an answer already.”
 
 We also talked about how his character has evolved over the years. He said, “This film marks a radical departure for my character. We don’t have any invading force from other planets, fancy jets or expensive ammunition. We’re just three superheroes travelling in a car, staying in small motels, running out of gas and phone battery. It’s all very normal and ordinary. But we’ve gone much deeper and really got under the skin of the characters. We wanted to see him not just sort of chomping on a cigar, throwing out one liners and raging and slicing people in half. At the centre of this movie is a man who is terrified of love and for good reason. Everyone he has loved has died. What I’m most proud of is that we’ve made a movie that is so different from anything we’ve done before. One of our goals was to make it a movie for people who have never seen a comic book movie and have no interest in seeing comic book movies. So, he’s older, unwell and being poisoned by the metal present in his body. He limps, drinks all the time and is looking after an ailing Xavier, who is suffering from dementia. They love and respect each other, but they’re also frustrated about their existence.” 
 
 Was there any specific point when he started thinking about putting an end to Wolverine? “I was having dinner with my friend Jerry Seinfeld one day and asked him why he decided to finish his show when he did. And he told me that it’s very important not to run yourself dry and keep going until you completely run out of ideas. If you leave when you are still on top, when there are still ideas left, it propels you into the next creative thing. And as he said that to me, I just knew that it was time to bid adieu to this character. I had a very clear idea of the tone and direction that this movie should take.”
 What was his favourite memory while filming, we asked. He immediately smiled and said, “It involves Patrick and Dafne — the three of us were shooting inside the car in extremely hot conditions. On our way back, Dafne was bouncing around (as usual) and Patrick turned around to her and said, ‘I want you to promise me something. Promise me you will do theatre.’ And she immediately said yes. But Patrick explained to her, saying that when she reached our age, she would realise that good scenes don’t come along often. And when you finish shooting, you realise that you’re never going to get a chance to do it again. It's a sad feeling. But when you do theatre, you get a chance to do a great scene every other day for months. I saw Dafne take all this in — to watch her wondrous expression was a moment I’ll never forget.”
 
 
  
 
 
