Less than two out of every 10 calls received at the state-funded emergency management research Institute (EMRI), or 108 The rest, say operators are `critical' queries on everything from currency to current affairs. The percentage of non-emergency and ineffective calls EMRI staff receive has risen from 75.61% in November 2013 to 83.81% in Nov 2016, show performance reports published by the National Rural Health Mission,  .

 Ineffective calls, EMRI managers fear, may clog lines for people who really need them. Besides prank calls, cases where the caller is silent or abusive, and where calls can't be connected due to poor signals and wrong numbers are termed ineffective. “It's a problem, and it's getting worse,“ said a senior EMRI call operator, who did not wish to be named. The percentage of unanswered calls has gone up from 1.72% in 2013 to 8.20% in 2015. “There is also an increase in delay in answering,“ he said. The percentage of calls attended to at the first ring has come down, with calls being answered at the third ring.
 
 An operator said two weeks ago, she couldn't take a call about a crash on a national highway as she was on the line with someone who didn't need an ambulance.“The caller from the accident site said we missed his calls at least thrice,“ she said.
 
 The call centre, with 90 lines and more than 60 operators on every shift receives more than 1,000 calls per hour from across the state. Operators are trained to collect information such as kind of injury , place of accident or address of the victim and symptoms from callers in less than 1.5 minutes. Yet, several calls go unanswered. “We usually don't call back because we get other calls by then,“ said another operator.
 
 When not calling for emergencies, many seek breaking news, weather, cricket scores or pre-paid mobile phone recharge. After demonetisation kicked in on November 8, 2016, people called to ask where `100 and `500 notes would be available; during Cyclone Vardah on December 12, many wanted to know when power supply will be resumed in their areas.
 
 Many non-emergency calls, EMRI officials say, are made due to frustration.“But we can't ignore them. Sometimes teens contemplating suicide call us,“ said a spokesperson, mainly exam time between March and May . “It's important for the receiver not to dismiss these calls.Such calls have to be transferred to an other number, 104, where professional counsellors take over.“
 
 A BSNL technicians' team is working with EMRI to reduce technical glitches.“We have been told they have an average of 1,000 wrong calls a day . We will resolve the problem soon,“ said an engineer.
 
 In the last two years, EMRI has upgrad ed its system to automatically block people making prank calls more than 10 times a day . “They won't be able to call us till we unblock them,“ said an official. The health department is also working on advertisement campaigns. “We plan to tell them when to call and when not to call 108,“ said a senior official.
 
