BENGALURU : The massive struggle to free India from polio began in 1985 in the ballroom of hotel Taj West End, Bengaluru, when a group of Rotarians heard the term ‘polio eradication’ for the first time. At that time, hardly could anyone imagine that a regular meeting of Rotary Club Bangalore would give rise to the   in India, eventually freeing our country of polio, and saving lakhs of lives every year. Ahead of an event on Saturday in Bengaluru, where Rajashree Birla, the second-largest contributor to the polio fund in the world after  , will speak at the Sophia High School, the anti-polio campaigners shared their experiences of struggle and achievements with TOI.

 
 
 
 For Dr Sita Bhateja, one of Bengaluru’s senior-most gynaecologists serving for the last 67 years, convincing people to get their children to the outreach centres for polio vaccination wasn’t easy. Narrating her experience to TOI, Dr Bhateja said: “Back in 1985, when it all started, I wasn’t a member of the Rotary Club. In those days, women weren’t allowed membership. As my husband was a Rotarian, I got the chance to be a part of this mega campaign, which I thought was exemplary. I joined in the efforts of the government, Rotary International, Rotary Club of Bangalore and several NGOs to save as many lives as possible.”
 
 “It was a tough time, and we faced a lot of resistance from everyone. While some thought polio vaccines will get their healthy children infected, others were totally against it. Our volunteers ran from one end of the city to other in autorickshaws, two-wheelers and cars to get parents and give vaccine drops to their children,” recalled Dr Bhateja.
 
 Walking down memory lane, she said: “We had to sit in the vaccine booths from dawn to dusk to monitor the vaccination process. There weren’t any toilets in the booths, and we had to carry plastic bags to use in case of emergency.”
 
 
 
 
 After Rotary International joined hands with   (WHO) to make India polio free, around 250 Rotarians plunged into the campaign without thinking twice. 
 
 On National Immunisation Day (NID), which came twice a year, Srinivas Murthy, 66, former president of Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FKCCI), would get started as early as 5 in the morning. He, along with other Rotarians, would run from pillar to post distributing the vaccines in all 70 outreach centres. Two days prior to NID, he along with fellow Rotarians would travel to several schools, layouts and knock from door to door, spreading awareness about the benefits of the vaccine.
 
 “While distributing them from one centre to another, we had to make sure that the vaccines were cold-chained and kept below 4 degrees Celsius. In case the temperature crossed that mark, the label on the vaccine turned grey, rendering it useless,” said Murthy, adding, “At 6am we had to take the BBMP health workers to outreach centres, from where they administered the vaccine to children. We were responsible for providing them with breakfast, lunch and sheets of paper where the numbers of vaccinated children were recorder. We would inspect the record every one hour, and also monitor the availability of ice to store the vaccine at appropriate temperature. Also, in case the stock got over in one booth, we would run to another centre to fetch more.”
 
 ----------
 
 
 
 
 The anti-polio campaign is a matter of great pride for Ranga Rao, president of Rotary Club of Bangalore, who feels that if not for this mission, polio would have crippled lakhs of children.
 
 “Rotary was among the first warriors. Our club was the pioneer in the fight against polio as there were no other clubs around that time. The key was to convince parents to administer the vaccine to their children,” said Rao.
 
 It all began in 1985 when Rotary International came up with the pulse polio campaign. “Our club immediately adopted the cause and in November 1986, launched the ‘Goodbye Polio Campaign’. We immunized 1.60 lakh children, and in those days and it was no mean task.”
 
 “On May 19, 1988 our club created a polio buffer centre, where a deep freezer would hold the vaccines which had to be transported to villages at short notice. Our major challenges included locating the source of polio, maintaining a cold supply chain to store the vaccine and convincing people to get their kids vaccinated,” he added.
 
 Rao believes that it was the larger goodwill of the Rotarians, and their tireless effort that helped convince people to come forward.
 
 “Vaccination, vaccination and more vaccination was our only mantra. Everyone from the members to their spouses, children and friends were out on the streets, slums and villages to administer two drops of the elixir that could change the country’s future,” he added.
 
 According to reports, between 2000 and 2014, Rotary worldwide and its partners administered 16 billion doses to almost 2.5 billion children. “In 2012, India was out of the polio list; it was such a happy year for all of us. By 2014, no new case of polio was reported and WHO declared India polio free,” said Rao.
 
