NEW DELHI: Reacting to the   at the office of the   at the  , pertaining to the files on hiring of security agencies in hospitals, Aam Aadmi Party functionaries have alleged that the   was trying to scare it and stop it from doing good work. The Delhi government said the security agencies were hired according to procedure and CBI or any other agency was free to probe whatever they wanted to.

 “The security agencies were hired as an emergency measure to ensure safety of doctors, staff and public property. The agency has been hired as per procedure,” said a Delhi government spokesperson.
 
  MLA from GK and party spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj observed: “There have been CBI raids at the office of the health secretary, house of the former health secretary, Tarun Seem, DGHS and other places. CBI, ACB, ED, Income Tax...all these agencies that are not under the control of the Delhi government are in different ways carrying out raids on our ministers. They are trying to somehow scare us and tire us so that we run away, but we will not be scared.”
 
 “We have come here to work and we will work,” said Bharadwaj. “All this may slow down the pace of our work but we will do the work we have come to do. People understand what’s going on.” He said he had learnt that attempts were being made to find faults in the files of mohalla clinics also to derail the project that is aimed at welfare of the common man. 
 
 “After things became normal in Aam Aadmi Party yesterday, the central government sent its parrot (referring to CBI) after Satyendar Jain,” tweeted senior AAP functionary Sanjay Singh. He ended the tweet with the AAP slogan on the Centre-state tussle -- “Woh pareshaan kartey rahey, hum kaam kartey rahey.” 
 
 Meanwhile, Vijender Gupta, leader of the opposition in the Delhi assembly, accused chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and health minister Satyendar Jain of conniving in engaging three security agencies for the Delhi government-run hospitals on a nomination basis. “These agencies were appointed in violation of the general financial rules of the Government of India.”
 
 
