Mumbai: In a positive move for research and development (R&D) activities undertaken by manufacturing companies, including automobile, pharmaceuticals and IT sectors, the royalty and technical know-how payments would no longer be liable to an R&D cess of 5%. The   proposes to repeal the R&D Cess Act, 1986, from April 1, which would result in the simplification of tax regime and lowering of tax costs, experts told TOI.

 The 5% cess is commonly relevant for automobile, chemical and IT hardware companies, which may be paying a licence fee for importing technology. Its removal is a step towards the implementation of the Goods and Services Tax ( ) Act later this year, Rahul Patni, tax partner, EY India, said. Most of these sectors pay the cess on import of technology and knowhow, IPR and consulting engineering services, which is not available as a credit or set-off.
 
 “Now with the repealing of the R&D Cess Act, the pool of service tax credit will get increased by 5% of the value of import of technology. This will also benefit medium and small scale enterprises, and startups,” said Abhishek A Rastogi, partner,   & Co. It may also be beneficial for certain pharma companies, including  ,   and  , which may have done a technology transfer for research. 
 
 For the pharmaceutical sector, the Budget may bring cheer to patients if the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules are amended to ensure availability of drugs at reasonable prices, and promote use of generic medicines. This could help in dispensing medicines in the ‘generic’ name, avoiding prescriptions in the more expensive medicine brands. “The mention of the amendment to the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules could be to allow chemists some flexibility to provide an alternative preparation different from the prescription as long as the generic name of the medicine is the same. Currently, chemists are not allowed to dispense a preparation different from the substance mentioned on the prescription. As the budget speech doesn’t specify this in detail, this is at best an educated guess,” said Sameer Sah, associate partner, Khaitan & Co. 
 
 Most doctors prescribe medicines using the brand name and not the chemical (or generic name). The medical council had recently amended its guidelines to encourage doctors to prescribe generic names of medicines, and similar changes are expected in the drug rules.
 
 
