BHUBANESWAR: The BJP on Monday observed 12-hour bandh in Dhenkanal protesting against murder of its party worker Salman Rout of Tarabha village in the district on Saturday. Normal life was affected due to the bandh in the town and its nearby areas. 

 Plying of vehicles was hit as the party workers staged road blockade on NH-55 for around three hours. Later police pacified the agitators and cleared the national highway. Business establishments and shops downed their shutters while schools remained closed. In order to quell violence, police detained over 50 party workers and leaders, including   and Krushna Chandra Patra, during the bandh. 
 
 The party workers demanded arrest of all the accused involved in the murder.   also supported the bandh and the lawyers didn't turn up for the court work. In a related development, collector (Dhenkanal) Roopa Roshan Sahoo and SP   reached the village to take stock of the situation. They formed a peace committee and discussed with the villagers to maintain harmony in the village. 
 
 During the meeting, villagers assured the officers that they will try to bring peace to the village. "Prohibitory orders under Section 144 of CrPC, clamped in the village from Monday, will continue till the situation becomes normal. Two platoons of police force have been deployed in the village maintain law and order," said Dhenkanal Sadar police station IIC Gyanaranjan Samal.
 
 BJP worker Salman Rout, 26, of Tarabha village was killed on Saturday. A constable of OSAP (special security)   had allegedly shot dead Rout over political rivalry. Following the murder, supporters of Rout had torched houses, shops, tractor, bike , haystack and household items of Biswal's family and relatives on Sunday. Police had requested a local court to take Biswal on remand for further interrogation on the murder case. The court on Monday allowed police to take him on two-day remand from Tuesday. Biswal's family lodged an FIR against Rout's supporters for ransacking and torching vehicles, houses and shops.
 
