KOZHIKODE: On Sunday, close relatives of T  , the young man who left Padne village in Kasaragod district with 10 others last June to join   (IS), got a message on Telegram informing them that he had been “martyred“ for the cause in an IS stronghold in Afghanistan.

 Telegram is an instant messenger service that is open-sourced at the receiver's end but whose server-side code is proprietary and is reportedly favoured by the IS as a communication tool.The Telegram message was sent from the account of Ashfaq Majeed, another Padne youth who had left with Hafeesudheen to join the dre aded terror outfit.
 
 “Hafees was killed in a drone strike yesterday . We consider him to be a shuhada (martyr) and Allah knows best,“ said the message received by B C Abdul Rehman, local leader of IUML and a relative of the slain youth.
 
 “I got the message at 8.30 in the morning, which said the burial of Hafees was over.When I asked about others, Ashfaq said they are all waiting for their turn to become martyrs,“ Rehman told TOI.Rehman said a similar message was received by Hafeesudheen's mother on Sunday morning. “On hearing the news Abdul Hakkeem, Hafeesudheen's father is rushing from Sharjah to Kasaragod,“ Rehman said.
 
 Police officials said there was no immediate possibility of confirming the news of Hafeesudheen's death. Hafeesudheen and the others left Padne in June 2016 to Tehran from where the group sneaked into IS-controlled Nangarhar in Afghanistan. Nangarhar is out of bounds even for Afghan government agencies and   (NIA) has sought the help of Interpol to get details of Indians in IS there. Nangarhar area comes under Khorosan Wilayat (province) of the Islamic State. A former Taliban leader is the amir of the Wilayat. The Keralites who joined IS initially led a relatively calm life in Nangarhar area. Dr Ijaz, one of the 11 who left Padne, had informed his relatives back home that he had started a clinic while his brother Shiaz had opened a shop in the area.Relatives were also informed that Rifaila and Fathima Nimisha, the two women who were pregnant when they left India, had safely delivered children in Nangarhar.
 
 Hafeesudheen has three sisters and his wife is a pharmaceutical graduate who studied in Saudi Arabia. “The parents of his wife have taken her back after he left to join IS, thus effectively divorcing her from Hafees,“ Rehman said.
 
 Educated up to higher secondary in Sharjah, Hafeesudheen had led a flamboyant life that forced his parents to shift him to Padne.
 
 Abdul Rashid Abdulla, who worked at Peace International School in Kozhikode and is suspected kingpin of the IS module in the state, is believed to be the main person behind Hafeesudheen's radicalisation.
 
