The death of B'luru musician   in suspicious circumstances in Mumbai puts the focus on the untold financial and emotional struggles faced by young artists

 Hey, hey, I want to be a rock star Hey, hey, I want to be a rock star I'm gonna sing those songs That offend the censors Well, we all just want to be big rock stars There's more than a grain of truth in this   song that glorifies the rock star life. Fans, groupies, sex, drugs, rock and roll, hanging out with the movie stars and the works. Well, for someone looking in from the outside, being a rock musician is the ultimate definition of cool. But in the real world where every second person nurses ambitions of becoming the next big thing, and where new stars are born on   every day, the business of music is as cutthroat as it can get. The murky details surrounding the tragic death of keyboard player Karan Joseph, who is alleged to have jumped from a Mumbai highrise, gives one a peek into the not-so-shiny bits of the music industry .
 A post by music producer and percussionist Karsh Kale on his Facebook page is a telling commentary on aspects that don't get talked about. “ A message to young musicians, artists, producers, MCs, singers in India. Don't let anyone in the industry ever tell you that they own you or control you in any way . No matter what contract you might sign or agreement you might come to with a record label or management co or talent agency, event booker etc.You are the artist and should always remain in control of the conversation,“ he says. “Karsh's post represents what he believes in and it's something he has held on to as a musician for over 20 years. He understands that there will be compromises one needs to make sometimes but he is just as sure that he won't compromise on what he believes in,“ says Anirudh Voleti, Kale's manager.
 
 
 
 
 Compromises come from the fact that there is hardly any money to begin with. “People think that you sleep all day and get to perform at cool places at night and get free booze and food. But what you are not told is that the music industry is volatile,“ says Delhi-based Rit nika   who runs Music Gets Me High (MGMH), a music management company and has been in the business for more than a decade. Most musicians find it hard to make ends meet. “Many of them don't even get paid. If they do, it is in the form of free food and drinks.Life as a musician is not as cool as it is made out to be on TV shows and films,“ says Nayan.
 
 Bengaluru-band Lagori's front man   has gone through that phase of not being paid and consequently, being broke. “When we started the band in 2011, I was this idealist who believed that one could live off making music. Money wasn't impor tant at all.“ But after three years of the band barely being able to meet their e x p e n s e s , Shankar's idealism got a reality check. “While money is still not important, today I know that it's essential,“ he says.
 
 
 
 
 Not having a stable source of income is what eventually drove Sanjeev   to get into commercial music. An indie musician who started off with playing in a college band and winning competitions, Thomas realised after graduation that the indie scene wasn't all that cushy as it seemed.“Money is the last thing you get and I learnt that the rock star life is not what it is.“ After stints in sound recording and production to make money, recognition as a musician came Thomas' way when he became lead guitarist for AR Rahman. “That's when my parents took me seriously too,“ says Thomas. A musician who has survived for 15 years, Thomas rues that `in India, we haven't been able to crack the formula to make a living in music. Everyone who starts off wanting to be an independent musician eventually gets into the commercial music space,“ he says.
 
 
 
 
 For most musicians, the lack of income andor an absent support system can prove to be the tipping point. Where some of them resort to drugs to get away from the problem, there are others making compromises and then are those who succumb to the pressure. “As a musician you are dealing with a lot of demons in your head and most of the times, you don't even have anybody to talk to and understand what you are going through.That's when they end up getting depressed,“ says Nayan who has plans to start a therapy programme designed just for musicians. Besides that, she strongly believes that musicians need to be educated on the `business' of music, the laws and proceedures. “If you don't know anything, how will you know if someone is taking you for a ride or not? How will yo u k n ow i f your manager is good or bad?“ she wonders.
 
