BHOPAL: With only about a year left for the assembly elections, chief minister   is likely to go for a cabinet expansion this month, which is billed as the last cabinet rejig of his current tenure.

 Chouhan has kept his cards closed on the basis of criteria set by the party high command. It is believed that five to six new ministers — including three from areas of   influence — will be inducted. The party has also hinted that a few ministers, who were either embroiled in controversies or dubbed as “overage”, may dropped, said sources in  .
 
 “During a recent visit, UP minister-of-state for transport and energy Swatantra Dev Singh recommended to the party high command to book cabinet slots for at least three MLAs from Chhindwara, Guna and Jhabua districts where Congress stalwarts Kamal Nath, Jyotiraditya Scindia and   have influence,” said a party leader.
 
 Dev toured the three districts and parliamentary constituencies last month to assess BJP's influence and reason for repeated defeats during assembly and   elections. He found that apart from issues related to farmers, the party has lost its ground in the absence of any influential local leader. “There is no minister in the state cabinet from these districts,” Dev told BJP leaders after his tour.
 
 In Guna, BJP has two MLAs — Pannalal Shakya and Mamta Meena. Both of them are first-timers in the assembly. Another senior leader Gopilal Jatav, 69, from Ashok Nagar, is a likely choice. The party is likely to choose a Dalit member from this area.
 
 In Chhindwara district, BJP has four MLAs while Congress has three. BJP leaders Chaudhary Chandrabhan Singh (Chhindwara) and Nanabhau Mohod (Saunsar) had earlier been included in the cabinet but were dropped due to non-performance. One of these leaders might get a recall, say sources.
 
 In Jhabua, BJP has a major issue of lack of leadership. After the demise of former Lok Sabha member Dilip Singh Bhuria, BJP failed to garner tribal votes and create an influence through strong leadership. Bhuria’s daughter Nirmala is the MLA from Petlwad but infighting in the party has shifted a major stake to Congress. BJP MLAs Nagar Singh Chauhan (Alirajpur), Velsingh Bhuria (ardarpur) and Independent MLA Kal Singh Bhabhar are vying for the coveted position, say sources.
 
 Sources in BJP also said that the party is searching for a replacement for Gyan Singh in Shahdol, who was elected to Lok Sabha in November 2016 bypoll. He was replaced by his son Shivnarayan Singh in Bandhavgarh assembly bypoll which fell vacant following the resignation of Gyan Singh, but the first timer could not be included in the cabinet. To lead the tribal belt, Meena Singh Mandve (Manpur ST) of Umaria district is a key contender, sources said.
 
 Governor in-charge Om Prakash Kohli is likely to arrive in Bhopal on October 1. The MP government has provided him with a list of tentative names to be included in the cabinet, say sources. Chief minister Chouhan will hold a meeting with the Governor to apprise him about his government's plans, said sources in the Raj Bhavan.
 
 
