For most students, college fests are about happy memories and fun. But the last day of ' ', the annual festival of DU's Hindu College, turned out to be a horrifying experience for a female student of the college. The incident happened on Friday evening, during  's performance. As is common in any college's star night performance, the venue was packed with not only DU students but also outsiders who had managed to find a way in. In the jostling and pushing, a   student, who hails from the northeast, was molested by a stranger when she was trying to go near the stage. On being confronted, the accused responded with a belligerent, "So what?"

  
  The incident happened during Sukhwinder Singh's concert at Hindu college (BCCL)
 
 
  A friend of the female student tells us, "Sukhwinder's performance had just started and we were trying to go near the stage when the incident happened. There was a group of four-five guys who were clearly not college students as they looked older. As we crossed them, one of the guys grabbed my friend’s backside, not once, but twice. When she confronted him, he said, 'So what?'"
 
  She adds, "We immediately went to the bouncers who were standing near the stage. We also informed the police about the incident and they started looking for the man. They found him in half an hour and took him to the police station. For guys like him think that if you are a girl, they can do anything they want with you. My friend is really shocked right now."
 
  
  (BCCL)
 
 
  
 An official from the North District police tells us, "During Sukhwinder’s concert in Hindu College, a man misbehaved with a female student who was standing near him. She immediately complained to the police officer who was on duty and the accused was taken into custody. We asked the girl to file a complaint, but she refused and didn’t even tell her name or revealed her identity. The accused was in an inebriated condition at the time of the incident. We arrested him under Section 151 and 107 of the CrPC."
 
 
  
  
 
 
 --With inputs from Niharika.Lal@timesgroup.com
 
  
 
  
 
 
