NEW DELHI: Fellow hostellers of  , a resident of Jhelum hostel in   who took his own life on Monday, have requested political groups not to make an issue of the tragic incident until at least the post-mortem report was available or the MPhil student’s death had been fully investigated by police.

 Given the controversy over suicides of Dalit students in other institutions in recent times, the hostel community described Muthukrishnan being a Dalit as a “coincidence” on Tuesday. The students said that while the administration admittedly needed to look into student issues that led them to opt for extreme acts, it was unfortunate that many students’ groups exploited incidents of this sort for political benefits. 
 
 “Even as they blame the administration, student groups are equally responsible for the failure to look after the interests of scholars,” said Dilip Maurya, a resident of Jhelum hostel and former chief election officer of JNU Students’ Union. “The campus is increasingly becoming individual centric, rather than taking up a collective approach. This is one reason why students increasingly tend to flock together in regional groups rather than assimilate with the wider student body.”
 
 Maurya said that students have become “emotionally weak” and are pressured by having to “make a career”. However, not many recalled 27-year-old Muthukrishnan, nicknamed Rajini Krish for being a big fan of actor Rajinikanth, being depressed.
 
 Some of them recollected speaking to Muthukrishnan on the eve of Holi when he told them he proposed to do something in the hostel’s typically jocular Holi event called “Chaat Sammelan”. On Holi Jmorning on Monday, the hostel mates said they saw no signs of stress or trouble on Muthukrishnan’s face. On the contrary, he had had a hearty lunch with an extra serving of eggs.
 
 Subodh, another hotel mate, agreed that his being a Dalit had no political implications. “The truth will emerge after the police probe, though social discrimination does exist on the campus,” he said. 
 
 Jhelum resident Amar Bahadur Shukla similarly added, “I have stayed in this hostel for five years now and have never seen any kind of social or other discrimination here. Everyone has a right to their opinion and neither students nor the hostel warden have made socially discriminatory utterances.” Shukla, however, criticised some student leaders for attempting to   the unfortunate incident.
 
 
