COIMBATORE: A   of the   for   and Natural History (SACON) hailing from Kashmir has alleged   on the campus, specifically by the director of the institute. 

 In a social media post, the student, Mohammed Zeeshan Malik, said he felt he was selectively targeted, discriminated and mentally tortured for the past one month as he hailed from Kashmir.
 
 SACON is a centre of excellence under the ministry of environment, forest and climate change located at Anaikatti in Coimbatore district.
 
 Zeeshan has been studying at SACON since January 2012. He completed his research and submitted his thesis last September. After this, he returned to his home town in Rajouri district. He said he had a pleasant stay at SACON until September. The problems rose after his viva voce, scheduled for May 22, 2017. His repeated requests for hostel accommodation were ignored. "I was declined accommodation in the hostel or in the guest house even after frequent requests."
 
 His problems did not end there. He was told by his seniors that the director had shifted the viva voce to Bharathiar University as the classroom where it was scheduled was under renovation.
 
 Former students and present research scholars at SACON, when contacted by TOI, said this was the first time such a suggestion was ever made. "I passed out in 2000 and have been in touch with the campus since then. It is always conducted on the campus," said a former student who did not want to be named. 
 
 When senior scientists at SACON were contacted, they said that more than the discrimination, a conflict with the former director of SACON who was Zeeshan's supervisor for his PhD could be the reason. "I do not think it has to do with his ethnicity," said a scientist.
 
 When K Shankar, director of the institute was asked about the allegations, he said Zeeshan was instigated by someone. "It is true that he was not provided accommodation. But it was because there was no availability and the guest house was under renovation," he said. He agreed that Zeeshan tried to reach him. "Yes, he called me when I was in New Delhi and I clearly told him that I could not allot him rooms or allow him to adjust with other students as I had changed those norms," he said, adding that discrimination happens over a period of time and not just in one instance. "I joined in March, 2016 and I have known Zeeshan for six months. Why would I target him now all of a sudden?".
 
