Many recent studies have linked the incidence of   to  . Since high blood pressure, is one of the major risk factor of heart disease, evidence is now portraying that hypertension may also occur as a result of poor  . In the human body the teeth are the only non-shedding surfaces. Do you know that bacterial levels can reach more than 10 microorganisms per mg of dental plaque? Human endodontal and periodontal infections are loaded with complex microbes. When a person doesn't take care of oral hygiene, these periodontal pathogens are able to destruct and invade gingival tissues by proteolysis then enter into systemic circulation. When it is left untreated, the periodontal microbes may directly invade the arterial wall and lead to vascular inflammation and  .

 According to a study carried out at the University of Helsinki and published in Journal of Dental Research in 2016, an infection of the root tip of a tooth increases the risk of coronary artery disease, even if the infection is symptomless. Hidden dental root tip infections are very common and such infections are usually detected by chance from X-rays. The study was carried out on 508 patients with a mean age of 62 years who were experiencing heart symptoms at the time of the study. Their coronary arteries were examined by means of angiography, and 36 percent of them were found to be suffering from stable coronary artery disease, 33 percent were undergoing acute coronary syndrome, and 31 percent did not suffer from coronary artery disease to a significant degree. Their teeth were examined using panoramic tomography of the teeth and jaws, and as many as 58 percent were found to be suffering from one or more inflammatory lesions.
 
 Physicians and dentists who recognize the oral-systemic link between hypertension and oral hygiene recommend that patients brush and floss their teeth regularly, and also eat healthy food to naturally lower the risk for high blood pressure and heart disease. Looking at all evidences it clearer the road map of happy heart starts from oral hygiene.
 
 
 
 
