MANGALURU: A day after former KPCC president B   challenged chief minister   to take truth test at either   or  , MLC Ivan D’Souza, who is also a confidante of the CM, said he is ready for ‘Aane Pramana’ (truth test) at Dharmastala.

 Poojary on Saturday had said that it was Siddaramaiah, who as a finance minister opposed a proposal of distributing rice at Re 1 per kg earlier. “As a KPCC president, I suggested the Congress government to implement a scheme to distribute rice at Re 1, but it was opposed by Siddaramaiah, who was the finance minister then. Let him take a truth test before the deity at Dharmastala or at Kudroli Temple in this,” Poojary had stated while inviting the chief minister for an Aaane Pramaana. 
 
 However, Ivan has his own reason for visiting Dharmastala and it is not related to Poojary’s allegations against CM. In fact, Poojary had on Saturday alleged that it was Ivan who prevented the CM from visiting to Kudroli Temple during Navaratri festival on October 9, 2016. Though Siddaramaiah was in Mangaluru on that day, the CM had skipped Kudroli Temple visit and returned to Bengaluru after having refreshments at Ivan’s house. 
 
 Reacting to Poojary’s allegtions, Ivan told reporters on Sunday that he has no role in CM skipping Kudroli Temple on October 9 last year. “I am ready for an ‘aane pramaana’ at Dharmastala temple. I have no role in CM’s absence at Kudroli during Navaratri last year. Siddaramaiah has been visiting my house as a political colleague and he had visited my house on several earlier occasions too. CM’s visit to my house on October 9, 2016 and skipping of Kudroli Temple visit are not connected to each other. Hence, I have decided to go to Dharmastala on Wednesday, not for aane pramana, but to pray before the deity. I will just pray before the deity that I have not committed any mistake in this connection,” Ivan said adding that he is ready to take truth test at the temple if needed.
 
 To a query as to will Ivan invite Poojary for truth test at Dharmastala, Ivan said, “I am not such a tall political leader to invite a towering personality like Poojary.” 
 
 On a recent Congress Legislature Party meeting, Ivan said, no leaders from Dakshina Kannada have sought disciplinary action against Poojary for his barbs against the party leadership. 
 
