CHENNAI: The  's decision to revamp the syllabus from Classes I to XII has got mixed reactions from academicians.While education minister K Sengottaiyan has promised special classes to “prepare students for the change“, a section of educationists says such rapid course correction may not be ideal.

 R Visalakshi, president of the  , said the changes had been brought about as a knee-jerk reaction which is not healthy .“These overnight decisions may put the students under stress and may be a struggle for them to cope,“ she said.
 
 However, Prince Gajendra Babu, general secretary of the State Common Platform for Schools System, welcomed the change. “The addition of 10 marks for continuous assessment is a good move. This will result in good learning outcomes for students,“ he said, adding that the focus on the aspect of Tamil culture was cru cial for the state's students.
 
 Officials from the education department said these changes in the syllabus are being brought in not just to accumulate knowledge but also to do away with rote learning and make the content interesting for students. This, they hoped, would help students get rid of the fear of exams.
 
 “But this is a bad decision. How are students expected to cope with the new syllabus suddenly?“ said Arjun Indrasenan, a Class X student who will be among the first to follow the revised Class XI syallabus and write the board exam as well. “It may be hard for students. Class XI was one year where I thought I could relax after my Class X boards,“ he said.
 
 In its order, the state government pointed out how the Class XI syllabus was not taught prop erly because of which stu dents could not fare well in IIT-JEE, NEET, CLAT and other competitive exams, including Kishore Vaigyanik Potsahan Yojana exam.“Schools were ignoring Class XI subjects and teaching Class XII courses for two years. Many experts pointed out that those who scored very high in Class XII boards were struggling in their first year of college,“ said an official of the department of education.
 
 Besides a revamp of the general courses, the vocational stream will be revised after eight years. Education department officials said opinions of academicians from Anna University and   have been sought on skill development and for vertical mobility to train students of the vocational stream.
 
 A committee will be formed to discuss the changes which will be introduced in the next year (2018-19). The   (TACTO) said working opportunities for vocational stream students will be more with these proposed changes.
 
