JALANDHAR: A day after the results, as Aam Aadmi Party leaders start coming out of the shock of the party’s unexpected trouncing, talks have started of reasons of the failure. Two of the winning candidates on Sunday took to ‘Facebook live’ to search for lacunae in AAP’s strategy. 

 AAP spokesperson Sukhpal Singh Khaira, who has won from Bholath, in his Facebok live on Sunday hinted that party’s inability to project a CM face in the state caused doubts among people. Several AAP supporters have also started questioning Delhi-based leaders of the party.
 
 Addressing a press conference here on Sunday, Khaira said that they accepted the verdict of the people and would now play the part of a “careful opposition”. He said that apparently there were several shortcomings in their campaign and these would be reviewed in the internal meetings of the AAP.
 
 On FB, however, while calling the defeat “unexpected, surprising and disappointing”, Khaira said, “we should accept that on one side, the Congress projected a well-known and seasoned leader like Captain Amarinder Singh but our party remained double minded if a CM face should be projected. First, we said that we will project the CM face but, later, near elections we said MLAs would elect.”
 
 “This perhaps caused doubts among people of Punjab that somebody from outside could become CM. There are other reasons too but I don’t want to discuss here as we shall discuss these in the party meeting,” he said. 
 
 He also admitted that SAD performed better than expected and held that the gap between the enthusiasm at Maghi Mela and the results would have happened only due to shortcomings “on our part”. 
 
 Meanwhile, journalist-turned-politician Kanwar Sandhu, who has also been elected from Kharar, in his FB live video said that there must be some holes in the strategy. He also said that he would discuss other reasons with party leaders. 
 
 Both the leaders especially addressed the NRI audience saying that performance was much below their expectations but they should not lose heart as their struggle would continue. AAP senior leader H S Phoolka, who won from Dakha, also asked the volunteers not to lose hope as they would continue working for interests of the state.
 
 
