MUMBAI: With just a couple of days to go before polling for the  , the   have made elaborate bandobast for the next five days until the counting day. Police have arrested 1,200 persons as preventive measure under the  , to ensure they don’t create trouble in their areas.

 Police have been carrying out   in sensitive zones such as Byculla, Nagpada, Dharavi, Chembur, Pant Nagar in Ghatkopar, Govandi, Kurla, Malvani, Kandivli and Behrampada in Bandra east.
 
 The BMC has provided training to 42,797 civic employees who will be deployed for polling duty on February 21. The civic authority instructed them reach allotted police booth on time for the election duty. 
 
 Officials said the flag marches have been arranged jointly by the returning officer, police personnel and the BMC election squad. Sources said Mumbai police commissioner   has cancelled the leaves of almost all police personnel for the next five days.
 
 The Rapid Action Force (RAF), Riot Control Unit (RCU), special commandos, and policemen from the special branch and crime branch have been asked to keep extra vigil in some sensitive zones. The bomb detection and disposal squad and the dog squad have been asked to be extra vigil though there is no specific intelligence inputs of any disturbance.
 
 Besides, police have also set up an election cell at the main police control room to respond to emergency calls.
 
 Officials said that on Tuesday, polling would start at 7.30 am and end at 5.30 pm. People standing in queue at the closing time will be allowed to cast their vote. An hour before polling starts, the election officials will perform mock polling in presence of candidates or their representatives. Counting of the votes will take place on February 23.
 
 Total 2275 candidates trying their luck in 227 electoral wards in the city. Some wards have only three contenders, while a few have more than 30 candidates. Officials stated that there are a constituency where number of candidates are more than 31, so they will put three ballot boxes listing all the candidates. Similarly, there are 37 electoral constituency where number of candidates are more than 15, they will put two ballot boxes in each polling station.
 
 For the election process, the civic authority will procure 724 BEST busses, 3,449 vehicle from RTO and 2,106 taxis from transport department which they will use to transport their men to polling stations across the city.
 
 The civic authority will display candidates’ affidavits at the election booths to make voters aware about their details.
 
 There are total 91,80,491 voters in the city and civic authority is running awareness campaign since last few days to encourage people to cast their votes in big number.
 
 
