PATIALA: Mohinder Kaur, mother of Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, was cremated at Patiala on Tuesday. The wife of the last ruler of the erstwhile Patiala princely state, Yadvindra Singh, had passed away on Monday.

 The last rites were performed by Amarinder who bid a tearful adieu to his mother as hundreds of people had converged in Patiala to pay the last respects to the former matriarch. Amarinder was joined by his younger brother Malwinder Singh and son Raninder in lighting the pyre at the Shahi Samadhan.
 
 Besides the immediate family, Amarinder’s brothers-in-law, former   minister Kanwar Natwar Singh and Major Kanwaljit Singh Dhillon, were also present at the funeral along with their sons. Amarinder’s grandsons Nirvan Singh, Angad Singh and Yaduinder Singh also joined in performing the rituals.
 
 Leaders from different walks of life, including political, religious and administrative, along with residents of Patiala, started assembling at the New Moti Bagh residence of the CM and participated in the long procession taken out in various parts of the city before the final rites were held at the royal crematorium.
 
 Among others who paid their tributes to the departed soul were Punjab governor V P Singh Badnore, former Haryana CM   Hooda, Punjab Vidhan Sabha speaker Rana K P Singh and deputy speaker Ajaib Singh Bhatti. Cabinet ministers Brahm Mohindra, Manpreet Singh Badal, Rana Gurjit Singh, Navjot Singh Sidhu and Sadhu Singh Dharamsot along with MP Santokh Chaudhary, former CM Rajinder Kaur Bhattal and Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar were also present for the last rites.
 
 Shiromani Akali Dal (Delhi) president Paramjit Singh Sarna and his brother Harvinder Singh Sarna also paid homage to the departed soul.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 Cutting across the party lines, several prominent leaders, including Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MP from Patiala Dr Dharamvira Gandhi, Apna Punjab Party chief Sucha Singh Chhotepur, Shiromani Akali Dal (Amritsar) president Simranjit Singh Mann, SAD MLAs Parminder Singh Dhindsa and N K Sharma and Trinamool Congress’s Punjab unit leader Jagmeet Singh Brar shared their condolences with the bereaved family and paid floral tributes to the Rajmata.
 
 Later, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) patron and former CM Parkash Singh Badal and party president Sukhbir Badal, Punjab BJP chief Vijay Sampla and senior Akali leader Bikramjit Singh Majitha also visited the New Moti Bagh Palace to express their condolences.
 
 The funeral procession started from Moti Bagh Palace and passed through Thikriwala Chowk, Fountain Chowk, Sheranwala Gate, Twakali Mor, Dharampura Bazar, Anar Dana Chowk, Adalat Bazar, Qila Chowk, Gur Mandi and Dal Daliya Chowk.
 
