LUCKNOW: In the entire duration of over four months when the Yadav family was in the grip of an internal feud, she went about her daily routine which she has been following for nearly nine months -- meeting people and taking part in social service events in   constituency. Although her name as the party candidate was announced much in advance -- in April last year to be precise -- there was a shadow of uncertainty following the outbreak of turf war in the family. 

 Although she refrained from taking sides, it was feared that she might become a collateral victim of the intra-family struggle. She is the wife of Prateek Yadav, SP patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav’s son from second wife  . Since, Gupta was perceived as close to Shivpal Yadav group, there was a question mark over her candidature when both Mulayam and Shivpal lost their battle before the  . When the names of all Lucknow candidates were held back till the last, the suspense intensified. However, the last list of the party released on Monday brought a sigh of relief for her.
 
 A postgraduate in International Relations and Politics from   and a trained singer in classical and semi-classical music from Bhatkhande Music Institute, Lucknow, Aparna has been nursing her constituency ever since her name was announced. Although her husband is more into body-building and construction business, Aparna has shown the spark of a budding politician.
 
 Starting from social work, she also arrested attention because of her ‘unconventional’ acts and statements be it clicking selfie with PM Modi, or visiting Gorakhnath Temple in Gorakhpur to pay tributes to Mahant Avaidyanath, who died last year. Her occasional statements praising Modi and seeking death penalty for rape convicts (after her father-in-law infamous ‘boys will be boys remarks’ in the same context) stunned the party cadre, but Aparna remained unapologetic as she would be equally effusive about praising the great works done by her elder brother-in-law (Akhilesh).
 
