Back with a bang and in a completely hot new avatar,   is raising temperatures as he hosts &TV’s latest reality series India’s Asli Champion…Hai Dum. As the show premiered on Saturday, May 6th at 9:00 pm, the man himself revealed why the show is so close to his heart:
 
 
 
 
 India's Asli Champion…Hai Dum is an apt show for me as it marries my passion with my profession and when that happens it creates magic. All the people I follow and believe have established themselves through television. I don't think I could have asked for a better medium and a show for my return to television.
  
 
 
 While I will, of course, be hosting the show, you will also see me guiding and mentoring the contestants. When you associate with a product you are so passionate about, there is more than just the job that you undertake. I am involved in the creative process of the show and I am sharing all the knowledge I have gained during my fitness journey with the contestants.
 
  
  
 
 
 I took a sabbatical of 3 years where I analyzed and understood myself. I realized there was an overdose of everything in the last 25 years so I needed a break and it helped me in understanding and taking care of myself. I got my 'me' time in those 3 years. I am extremely passionate about fitness which has helped me achieve the body that I have today. At the age I am at I honestly believe that it’s very difficult to be able to manage a body like this. But if you know the basics then it’s very simple and I want to impart my knowledge through India’s Asli Champion
  
 
 
 
 Fitness for me is wellness. It means being healthy – mentally and physically. I have come to an age where I think doing what you like is important. You don't have to hit a gym; you can walk, run or cycle. Also, I am very disciplined towards my fitness regime. I practice yoga for an hour every day and 4 days a week I do physical training. I use stairs and walk as much as possible. I am also very particular about the food that I eat. I am teetotaler which helps me. I don’t use any protein shakes, steroids or supplements. It’s only pure home-cooked food for me.
  
 
 
 
 I love Amitji, Akshay, Salman and Anil Kapoor. They inspire me. For me they are the fittest because they never aged and I take only from them and nobody else. 
 
 
 
  
  
 
