 (BHU), one of the premier educational institutes of the state has been in news recently, for all the wrong reasons. It all began when an undergraduate girl student of Visual Arts alleged molestation by three men on a motorcycle near   while returning to her hostel in Triveni complex of BHU.
The girl, later said that on complaining to the warden of the hostel about the alleged incident, her warden, instead of taking cognizance of the issue, asked the girl why she was returning to her hostel so late. She also alleged that the university security guards, who were barely 100 meters away from where the incident occurred, did nothing to help her.
 
  
  Girls protesting at BHU (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar) 
 
 The warden's response irked the girl's fellow students and other inmates of the girls' hostel who then sat on a dharna at the university gates to protest against the apathetic attitude of the university authorities and demanded better security. On Saturday night, it was reported that the protesting students tried to enter the residence of the University Vice Chancellor and when the deployed security forces tried to stop them, they allegedly attacked the police after which the police had to resort to lathicharge to disperse the students.
 The University has since then been closed early on account of Dussehra, but the mood that prevails among the students still on campus is sombre and disappointed. Alleging an insensitive attitude of the university authorities towards the problems of the students, they say their complaints go unheard in the institution and girls are mostly shamed when they complain of molestation and harassment on campus.
 
  
  Yogeshwar Ram Mishra, DM, Varanasi (in blue shirt) on a round of BHU to review the situation there on Sunday night (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar) 
 
 "Instead of lending a sympathetic ear to my friend, she was shamed for roaming in the campus when it was just 6.30 in the evening, by a member of the proctorial board, when the incident happened," says Akshay (name changed on request), a classmate of the victim who was allegedly molested, adding, "After the incident, she called a friend in our group, who later informed us. We all went to the member of the proctorial board to register our complaint. As it was dark and there was no proper street light, she had not been able to see the number plate of the motorcycle of the molesters. We requested the members of the board to see the   footage so that the culprit could be identified. They expressed their inability and said that they don't have the technician to view the footage. When we volunteered to provide a technician, their reply was that the CCTV camera is not functioning. They were not willing to cooperate," alleges Akshay. 
 Niharika (name changed), another friend of the victim, shares, "On returning to the hostel, my friend was rebuked by the hostel warden who said, 'Tum 6 baje hostel se bahar kya karne gayi thi? Hum log iss umr mein ladkon se darte hain toh tum logon ko bhi darna chahiye. It appeared as if it was my friend who was at fault," says Niharika. 
 This attitude of the University authorities have often led to girls not registering a case against molestation on campus in the past. They are even advised to ignore incidents of harassment and not create a hullabaloo about it. "Our warden often says that hamare time par bhi harassment hota thi par hum shorts pehan kar ke dharne par nahi baith jate thay. Aise chhote mote incidents ko ignore kar dena chahiye. I believe that the University authorities should take the issue of security of students, especially of the girls, more seriously and not treat it just as a chhota mota incident," says Jaya Sinha, a BA third-year student and an inmate of a girls hostel of BHU. 
 Radhika, pursuing BA, says, "Even if an incident happens at 2 in the afternoon with a girl, the University administration will hold her responsible. They will start giving her gyan rather than taking appropriate action. Once a friend of mine was groped while she was walking at around 5 in the evening by some boys on campus. She preferred to put the incident on social media rather than go and complain to the authorities since she knew nothing will be done about it.”"
 
  
  Police outside BHU (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar) 
 
 Agrees Harshit Jaiswal, a student of Mass Communication, who says, "The University authorities are apathetic towards the problems of girls. The biggest example is the recent incident of harassment and the consequent protest. If any incident happens with a girl, they try to sort it out themselves rather than go and register a complaint." 
  Some of the girl students believe that it is better to remain cautious, since ultimately they will be blamed if any untoward incident happens. Aparna, an undergraduate student says, "I know our faculty will not stand by us if any incident happens with me so I prefer to remain safe. I don’t go to deserted places in the campus after dark and if required, move in a group. There are certain pockets in the University which I avoid going to even during the afternoon. For instance, the area near the   is a den of harassment. You are sure to face obnoxious comments even if you go there during day time. The University authorities are aware of this but are not able to take any action against it," she alleges.
 
  
  Girls protesting outside BHU (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar) 
 
  As part of the ongoing protest, some inmates of Naveen Hostel, one of the girls’ hostel in BHU, also handed over a memorandum to the Dean of Student and Chief Proctor, drawing their attention towards the issue of security near the hostel. They stated in the memorandum that the road leading to their hostel has inadequate security arrangements. No guards are deployed at night as a result incidents of harassment are a common feature in that area. As an international hostel is situated in the vicinity, the inmates of that hostel, who are foreign students, face a similar situation. The girls also alleged that a lot of anti-social elements hang around the hostel and make objectionable gestures at them. They demanded that proper street lighting should be arranged and CCTV cameras should be installed to put a stop to such incidents. "Till now we have remained quiet, but now I feel it is high time that we raise our voice," says an inmate of the hostel, on condition of anonymity.
 Poorly lit streets, inadequate security staff, the remedial measures for which being the major demand of the ongoing protest, has also led to incidents of crime involving the boys as well. "There are certain areas in the campus which make us wary of venturing out late at night. The area between Madhuban and VT ( ) has guards only on two crossings while the rest are unmanned. This has led to several incidents of robbery or snatching. A mobile phone of one of my friend was snatched at gun point on this route. So, I feel that if this problem is addressed this will solve a lot of issues, including harassment," says Siddharth Bharadwaj, a student of media studies, Faculty of Law, BHU.
 
 
 
 
