KOZHIKODE: Health minister K K Shylaja here on Saturday said the state is committed to evolve comprehensive healthcare schemes for the prevention and management of cardiac ailments. Addressing the gathering after inaugurating the 5th annual conference of Society for Heart failure and Transplantation (SHFT) at  , health minister said healthcare expenditure of the state has grown from 470 crores in 2012-13 to Rs 1013 crores in the last fiscal. Minister said with more emphasis on health care, the government has also resolved to ensure healthy environment for living and develop strategies to control many life style diseases. 

 Health minister also said that a collective effort of the health sector and general public is the need of the hour to bridge the organ demand-supply gap. ``Public and Private hospitals can start coordinated effort to broaden the organ donor pool and implement functional transplant programmes, ’said the health minister.
 
 Dr K  , President SHFT, drew attention to the major concerns in heart transplantation. ``Considering our population and the high prevalence of end-stage heart failures, only a miniscule percentage gets the organ for transplant before time runs out. All states therefore need proactive donation and transplant programmes, he said. `` 'There is pressing necessity of more licensed transplant-ready hospitals, more hospitals with infrastructure to retrieve organs and standard framework, protocol and guidelines for brain death certification and organ donation. Improved medical insurance and state sponsored special mass insurance schemes can significantly contribute to address the cost factor in heart and other organ transplants,' said Dr Venugopal.
 
 The first day of the conference witnessed both international faculty and experts from various states sharing operative skills, experiences and most advanced transplantation procedures from across the world. Dr  , Cardiac Surgeon, University of  , addressed the conference on quantity and quality of life after transplantation. The discussion on care of post-transplant patient was led by Dr Jayan Parameshwar, Deputy Director, Transplant Directorate, Papworth, UK. Dr Catherine Sudarshan, Clinical Lead, Cardiothoracic Organ Retrieval Service, Papworth Hospital, UK spoke on tackling Primary cardiac Allograft dysfunction and Theresa A McDonagh, Professor of Heart Failure, Kings College Hospital, London explained diuretic therapy in acute and chronic heart failure. Cardiac Resynchronisation Therapy (CRT) and Cardiac Pathology workshops were also held on the day.
 
