BAREILLY: In a sensational incident, a teenage girl hacked her lecturer father to death after the latter made aggressive sexual advancements on the intervening night of January 2-3. Father, Sompal Singh, a lecturer at a government college, succumbed to his severe head injuries even as his family's last ditch effort to save him went in vain.

 The incident happened at around 2 post midnight when the girl was sleeping in her room at her residence in Golden Green Park colony. Sompal tried to sexually pursue his daughter to which the daughter put a stiff resistance and threatened to raise alarm. A relentless Sompal went ahead with his ill intention only to encounter his daughter's extreme step. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, the daughter, a class VIII student of prestigious school in the city, said,"I got hold of an iron rod during the scuffle. My father had already threatened to kill me if I raised alarm or revealed about his acts to anyone. I had no option but hit my father with the iron rod to save myself."
 
 The girl was alone with her father while the other member of the family including girl's mother and her two younger siblings were visiting Pantnagar. The fact that his daughter was alone emboldened Sompal courage to pursue his ill intentions to an extreme step given the fact that he used to often make sexually explicit remark at her daughter. 
 
 "We had often objected to his dirty remarks which he publicly made. On one occasion he spit on his daughter's face when the latter told him about her low score in the mid term examination. Besides, her mother always used to raise objections on the sexually explicit remark he used to make," said a relative of the girl on condition of anonymity. 
 
 According to the police, Sompal, after the injury was not rushed to hospital for treatment which led to his death."I informed my mother who was in Pantnagar about the incident. They tried to send in an ambulance and even asked me to raise alarm to wake up neighbours; but none of the efforts paid in the end," said the daughter. 
 
 Police has detained the girl and is now investigating the matter. Speaking to TOI, station house officer at Baradari police station Rajesh singh said,"As of now this purely looks like an act of self defence by the teenage girl. The murder weapon has been recovered and the forensic team is on the spot to take samples. More would be clear once the primary investigation is over." 
 
