Nagpur: A social worker has challenged the largesse being extended to Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), by building a compound wall and internal roads at the Smruti Mandir at Reshimbagh, at the taxpayers’ expense. Social activist Janardhan Moon, through his NGO Nagari Hakk Saurakshan Manch, filed a PIL before Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Thursday. He has challenging NMC’s decision to spend Rs1.37 crore on the Dr Hedgewar Smruti Mandir premises. He has also pointed out that the RSS wasn’t even registered as an organization with the charity commissioner’s office here. The petitioner, through counsel Ashwin Ingole, has made state general administration department, NMC commissioner Ashwin Mudgal, NMC standing committee chairman Sandeep Jadhav, and RSS Sarsanghachalak Mohan Bhagwat, as respondents. The case may come up for hearing next week. In a series of reports, TOI had exposed how RSS members in the civic body were going out of the way to benefit the organization at the cost of many development projects in the city. There have been allegations that some of these NMC leaders have the ulterior motive of lobbying for tickets in assembly, Parliament and other elections. The TOI has reported that NMC cannot incur any expense on any private property. The rules only make an exception for notified tourist sites or pilgrim places, like Deekshabhoomi. However, RSS premises is neither of these. The petitioner has argued that the BJP-ruled corporation always cites financial crunch when it comes to important civic works like roads, potholes and gutter line repairs. The rains have badly exposed its tall claims of good roads, with majority of them riddled with potholes. Even schools run by the civic body are in pathetic condition, but NMC officials don’t have funds to improve facilities there. It doesn’t even have funds to build storm water network on roads, which often leads to rainwater gushing into nearby homes. Moon prayed for cancellation of the Rs1.37 crore sanction, and also sought directives from the court for action against concerned authorities for splurging precious taxpayers’ money on non-registered organizations for their vested interests. He further pointed out that the proposal in this regard was first moved by ruling party leader Sandip Joshi and former mayor Pravin Datke. The Standing Panel under Jadhav later cleared it on Tuesday with a majority votes, even as Congress corporators opposed the move. Leader of opposition Tanaji Wanwe too had demanded immediate withdrawal of the order while citing NMC’s financial ill health. Manoj Sangole, Harish Gwalbansi, and Ansari Sayeeda Begum of Congress, and Jitendra Ghodeshwar of BSP had also registered their protest during the meeting. The petitioner said that citizens, who are genuine taxpayers, would suffer if the civic body is not stopped from wasting Rs48.36 lakh on compound wall and Rs89.02 lakh for concretizing internal roads of Smruti Mandir. This money could be spent on development works like roads or gutter line repairs, he said. (With inputs from Mohnish Nelarwar)