KOLKATA: For the last three Sundays, first-year student   would wake up early and make a trip to Salt Lake from her Lake Town home, only to be greeted by empty streets. But she turned out to be fourth-time lucky. “I was happy this Sunday.   is finally back,“ said a visibly gleeful Jalan, who joined in the fun with four of her friends.

 Tanisha's happiness was echoed by thousands, who were back on Sunday morning on Happy Streets, a Times of India initiative in coordination with the  , after a three-week hiatus. The T-shaped stretch, along Broadway and Fourth Avenue adjacent to  , was again teeming with infants, teenagers, homemakers and the elderly right from 6.30 in the morning, till the prohibition on vehicles was lifted around three hours later. Till then, they played, sang, danced, ran, took selfies, cycled, performed yoga or karate on the empty streets.
 
 The first leg of Happy Streets 2017 was organized at the same venue on January 8 and 12. “We had great fun on both the days. I had never played cricket or tug-of-war on the road. I am super happy that Happy Streets is back in Salt Lake,“ said FD Block's Minal Khetan, interior designing student.
 
 As the day broke, scores of people lined up to cycle, skate or play badminton, cricket, football and basketball. A team of young boys from Fun on Wheels skated down the road, while a group from Infinity Riders and Discover on Wheels stunned the gathering with their cycling skills. Kids could take part in activities organized by Fun Pickle, Fun Diets and Little Gym, while TAFI invited participants to the tug-of-war zone.Revellers took part in marching activities by NCC cadets.Also on the offer were kick-boxing classes by Pedagoge, zumba by Move with Groove, Chhau dance performance by Naihati WIN and a dance opera by Sohinimoksha World Dance. For those seeking inner peace, meditation sessions were held by Heartfulness at Pyramid Zone, yoga by Yoga for Life and corporate yoga by Pedagoge at the Stay Active Zone. In a kids' cycle race, Ujaan Samanta, Manjari Agarwal and Yash Agar wal were declated the winners.
 
 Among the visitors were some well-known faces, including grandmaster Dibyendu Barua and his wife Saheli.They were spotted enjoying a leisurely ride on cycles, stopping to admire teenagers showing stunts on roller skates and cycles. “Next Sunday, I will bring some of my students and will lay down multiple chess boards and chess pieces. Visitors can play with me and my students,“ said Barua.
 
 Bidhannagar City Police, backbone of the event, were happy the event was back. “We taught people how to wear helmets. We spread the message of the ills of drink driving, speeding, speaking over mobile while driving and not wearing aseatbelt,“ said a senior officer.
 
