MYSURU/CHIKKAMAGALURU: Campus politics, which is deep-rooted in Sringeri, claimed the life of a degree student recently. 

 Abhishek, final-year B.Com student of  , committed suicide after his name surfaced in an FIR. Abhishek, 21, who identified with the ABVP, was booked with three others for seriously assaulting NSUI members during a clash over inviting a guest to a college function, Yodha Namana (Salute to Soldiers). Two student groups clashed late on Monday, two days after the college event. 
 
 Abhishek was found hanging in a forest area close to his village, Chikre, around 4km from Sringeri, in Chikkamagaluru district. In his suicide note, Abhishek pleaded innocence and claimed he had been falsely implicated in the case, and was not involved in any clash. He a pologized to his parents for taking this drastic step, saying he was ending his life because his future would be bleak as a case was registered against him at Sringeri police station. 
 
 After an attempt-to-murder case was registered against him on Tuesday , he returned home and went missing around 7pm. His phone was switched off, and all efforts by his parents and relatives to contact him for two hours went in vain. Later, they found the suicide note in his room, in which he spoke about ending his life. He was fo und hanging from a tree around 11pm on January 10. 
 
  Abhishek's death has once turned the focus on campus politics, after the JNU and   controversies. Though there were suggestions to curb campus politics to prevent a repeat of any untoward incident on campus, the authorities concerned are yet to take measures to make campuses free of politics. JCBM College principal Devidas S Naik said, "It's unfortunate that one of our students died because of campus politics. Though we've asked students to stay away from such issues, anonymous people are conspiring to keep politics alive in edu cational institutions." 
 
  Yodha Namana was organized to pay tribute to s oldiers and ex-servicemen on January 7 by NCC, the Arts and Commerce Club of the college and Ex-Servicemen's Association, Koppa. "Trouble started over the selection of the chief guest as a group of students associated with NSUI threatened to stage a protest against inviting writer Chakravarthy Sulibele as a guest. His name was suggested by a co-sp onsor but we had invited another chief guest," he said. 
 
  As trouble started brewing on campus, we decided not to invite Sulibele in the interest of students. The programme went off peacefully and about 60 ex-servicemen were honoured. Despite that, some student activists went on with their protest on the day, but it didn't have any impact on the programme, Naik said. 
 
  Later, a few students associated with ABVP and NSUI, student representatives of national political parties, clashed outside college and landed in trouble. This forced us to shut college, which has a strength of over 1,300 students. We're planning to introduce strict measures to contain activities," he added. 
 
  The death of Abhishek is unfortunate, the principal said. 
 
  On Thursday, ABVP activists held a protest, demanding action against those responsible for Abhishek's death.   leader in the opposition   met protesters, after meeting Abhishek's family members. Abhishek's family, too, filed a complaint accusing the principal of being responsible for their son's death. The issue could have been solved by the college head instead of sending them to the police station, they claimed. 
 
