MUMBAI: The BJP has begun to explore new political equations in Maharashtra should the   withdraw support to the   regime after the  . Efforts are underway by BJP to avoid mid-term elections in the state, it is learnt.

 Sena president Uddhav Thackeray's recent declaration that the Fadnavis government was serving out its notice period has set alarm bells ringing in the state BJP. On the other hand, Matoshree is calibrating chances of a mid-term state election, sources said.
 
 The opposition CongressNCP bigwigs too have got down to testing political waters. “It remains to be seen if (CM) Devendra Fadnavis throws out Sena ministers from his cabinet or the Sena quits on its own,“ said ex-CM   on Thursday . “But there is no gainsaying the fact that the state is heading for political uncertainty,“ Chavan told mediapersons.
 
 State BJP chief Raosaheb Danve's statement at a press conference in Latur that several opposition MLAs were in “close contact“ with the BJP assumes significance in the wake of the Sena threat.
 
 NCP leader Ajit Pawar had his own take on the BJP-Sena dust-up. Addressing a poll meeting in Baramati, Pawar said the opposition would have a strength of over 150 (145 is the simple majority needed to form a government) in the assembly if Sena withdraws support to the Fadnavis government. The possibility of Congress, NCP , PWP and smaller parties coming to the rescue of Fadnavis are bleak, he said.
 
 “I am not sure if Uddhav Thackeray will really withdraw support. In the event he does, there will be uncertainty over the survival of the government. The opposition will cross the 150 mark against BJP's 138, including its own 122 MLAs and a few nominees of the smaller parties,“ Pawar told TOI.
 
 The BJP is working on a premise that Matoshree may ask its ministers to walk out of the Fadnavis government if the Sena bags more than 85 seats in the 227-strong BMC. The BMC polls are scheduled for February 21and counting of votes will be done two days later.
 
 The Sena resolve to topple the Fadnavis government will be further steeled if BJP suffers a setback in Uttar Pradesh, said a BJP strategist.
 
 “In the coming days, the Sena will build up a case against the Fadnavis government on a slew of issues. They would want to leave the government as martyrs -giving up power in the larger interest of the poor and some such stuff,“ he stated.
 
 He cited the Sena's latest demand that the state government should waive off crop loans of debt-ridden farmers.The BJP has given the waiver assurance in its UP poll manifesto. Senior Sena ministers submitted a memorandum in this connection to Fadnavis late Wedensday evening.
 
 “We are prepared for any eventuality . One thing is for sure, Devendraji (Fadnavis) will complete his five-year term as chief minister,“ he added.
 
 Uddhav severed ties with the BJP after the two-weeklong seat-distribution talks failed as the latter raised the issue of transparency in the BMC administration. Since then, Thackeray has been firing salvo after salvo on the BJP , PM   and Fadnavis.
 
 Sena minister Ramdas Kadam on Thursday urged Thackeray to withdraw support to the Fadnavis government at the earliest. “The BJP is a treacherous party ... They have no scruples. They have stabbed Sena in the back,“ said Kadam.
 
 Divakar Raote said resignation letters of Sena ministers were ready and that they would sign it once Thackeray gave his assent. “I have my resignation letter in my pocket,“ said Raote, transport minister.
 
