For years, 51-year-old Kunal Dasgupta and his wife Sheetal buried their differences over finances, child-rearing, emotional fulfillment or the lack of it; this winter, after celebrating 28 years of marriage, they parted ways. Says Sheetal, “I wanted to let go of this huge burden of trying to make my marriage work. The fatigue over constant bickering was affecting my health and energy. I wanted to channelize my energy doing something better. Most of all, I wanted to wake up with a smile.”

 Likewise, Rajeev Sikand, 22, says after growing up in a house that witnessed constant fighting, he told his parents to find peace in their lives. “If it means they live separately or divorce, they must go ahead with it. They have made a lot of sacrifices for us. Now, they need to get on with their own lives,” says Sikand.
 
 Welcome to the world of  . Rather than celebrating silver anniversaries, couples in their 50's or above are going in for ‘silver separation’. With grown-up children leaving home and retirement looming large and the empty nest syndrome hitting home, a rising number of couples are choosing to lead a life of emotional fulfillment — in their individual spaces.
 
 What was once a hard choice after years — even decades — together, is now becoming an option that people are thinking about. Divorce lawyer Rekha Aggarwal cites that in the last 10 years, the percentage of older divorce cases has almost doubled in India. She explains why: “In our times, terms like ‘personal happiness’, ‘personal space’ and ‘peace of mind’ have become important life goals. Without the distractions of work and children, these things become more apparent to couples who don’t have any shared interests, children apart.”
 
 
 
 Professor  , psychiatrist, psychoanalyst and director of the Harvard Study of Adult Development recently talked about the ill-effects of long-running   in a  . After conducting one of the longest-running studies of adult life ever done — tracking the lives of two groups of men for over 75 years — this study now follows their Baby Boomer children, to understand how childhood experience reaches across decades to affect health and well-being in middle age. He says, “We’ve learned three big lessons about relationships. The first is that social connections are really good for us, and that loneliness kills.” The logical next question would be then why separate?
 
 
  
  
 
 That’s the second lesson of the study. “Living in the midst of conflict is really bad for our health. High-conflict marriages, for example, without much affection, turn out to be very bad for our health, perhaps worse than getting divorced,” adds Waldinger.
 
 With increased life expectancy, people don’t see divorce in their 50's as a compromise; there are a few good decades to pursue  . Reputed American writer and biographer Deirdre Bair says, “There is an overwhelming, urgent feeling among all them of, ‘I have to move out now or I’ll never have the chance again’. It’s that urgent feeling that makes them split in their silver years.” She wrote the book 'Calling It Quits: Late Life Divorce
  and 'Starting Over
  after interviewing over 400 couples in their middle age.
 
 Says IIT Delhi professor Dheeraj Singh, who opted out of his marriage after years! “My kids are married and settled abroad and I was tired of regular fights with my wife. I will retire in another year and want to live in peace. Also, there’s less resistance and drama when you divorce later in life. We have done enough soul-searching, tried to make our marriage work before giving up on it. I can look into the mirror and say, ‘I did what I could’.”
 
 
 
 Waldinger emphasises through his study that it wasn’t middle age cholesterol levels that predicted how people were going to grow old; it was how satisfied they were in their relationships. “The people who were the most satisfied in their relationships at age 50 were the healthiest at age 80. The third big lesson we learned about relationships and our health is that good relationships don’t just protect our bodies, they protect our brains.”
 
 A bad relationship, on the other hand, can do just the opposite. Facing another 20 or 30 years with someone who depletes one’s energy isn’t an option for those who can financially support themselves with healthy pensions.
 
 Family counsellor Gitanjali Sharma says, “Even though many of your dreams have crashed living with someone, people want to pursue similar dreams of yore or new ones — alone. They are no longer scared of walking alone in the sunset years.”
 
 Studies show divorce rate among people aged 50 and above has doubled in the past 20 years in the US, UK, Canada, Italy, France and Japan.
 
 
