
 
  
 
  I honestly can’t comment on that. There’s no comment as far as north and east is concerned. I’m focused only on the south and west. That is where my involvement is with McDonald’s. How can I comment on what is happening between the two other entities?
  
  
 
  That is a speculative question. I can’t comment on anything that does not involve me.
  
  
 
  McDonald’s is changing. If you see our new stores, you will think you are in Europe. My mission is to bring premium coffee to mass market. What people can’t go to Starbucks and get, I want to give better at McDonald’s. We have 180-200 million consumers that come to McDonald’s in west and south. Another huge change has been, in January this year, when we launched our experience-of-thefuture store at Nariman Point. Now we have five-six such stores. We launched them at the same time as the US. If you take away the golden arches, you won’t recognise the store as a McDonald’s. Self-ordering kiosks, customising your burger, table service, replacing fries with salads, soups, whole-wheat wraps, breakfast — we have all that. New stores will come largely in these formats, elements will be adapted. We’re going to roll out aggressively.
  
  Also, instead of building on promotions, we do brand advertising, along with work on the menu. If you look at our menu three years back and now, you cannot recognise it. We are also moving in the direction of eliminating plastic, to things that cause zero landfill. We have imported hand-washing systems now. The overall idea is to take the customer experience to the next level.
  
  
 
  While McCafe is giving us today’s results, experience of the future will give us tomorrow’s results. And we believe breakfast is going to give the day after’s results. We want to be the first quick service chain to own the breakfast space. And because it’s a tough space, there is no competition there. The category gets built because of nuclear families, working people. In a mall, for example, there are 500 people working and they form your breakfast (crowd) around 8-9 am. On highways, breakfast does really well.
  
  Having said that, I don’t have a target. It’s all about eating out frequency. If eating out frequency doubles, I’ll also double my numbers. But if eating out frequency remains the same, I can’t do more than 30-35 stores... McDonald’s has been sustainable. We don’t open 100 stores and then close down 200. We normally eat 90-100 times a month, of which even in a city like Mumbai, people were eating out three-four times a month. That is when we felt the focus has to be on increasing the frequency of eating out. It was not about competing with anybody. Then we launched our Happy Price menu, frequency of eating out in Mumbai went up to eight-nine times and same-store sales almost doubled.Today, we have 111McCafes. Our average volume has gone up 70-75%, without advertising. Or take beverages — it has high margins. Because of our sourcing advantages and knowledge, we’ve kept our pricing 30% lower. We’re sourcing locally. If you price right, you can take the eating out frequency higher.
  
  
 
  We’ve been making bold moves into the future. To put things in perspective, in the last eight quarters, we are the only brand in QSR (quick service restaurants) that has given positive same-store sales growth. Last year, January-March 2016, we did 8.1%. Then came November 2016 — demonetisation — that made a super disruption because liquidity was knocked out of the system. In that quarter, we did 5.5% same-store sales. What that told me is, when you do foundational work, you are retaining customers and on top of that, if you build the baseline, you increase store volume. It told us consumers are resonating with our brand. That’s our plan — to retain and build the customer base. Unlike the rest of the industry, which was building more on promotions in quarters, we decided to do three things. We decided unit economics needed to come back. In 2014, we launched a restaurant operating platform — to bring the cost structure back to what made business sense.
