  : Rights defender Irom Sharmila Chanu's party, People's Resurgence and Justice Alliance (PRJA), released its election manifesto on Thursday with a promise to repeal the draconian Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act (AFSPA) if its candidates get elected. 

 The manifesto, however, did not talk about safeguarding Manipur's territorial integrity, one of the key issues in the poll manifestos of other political parties. PRJA convener Erendro Leichombam said, "Protection of Manipur is the bounden duty of the people of the state. It is our right to protect and preserve our state's interests and territorial integrity. This being the case, we did not put it in our manifesto," said Erendro.
 
 "The  , the BJP and other national parties never miss this issue in their manifestos. While for them it's just a lip service, we Manipuris will continue to protect our state," he said. Erendro is contesting from the prestigious Thangmeiband constituency in Imphal West.
 
 Manipur will vote in two phases, on March 4 for 38 seats, and on March 8 for 22 seats. The PRJA will fight in three constituencies, including chief minister Okram Ibobi Singh's home turf, Thoubal, from which Sharmila is fighting.
 
 At a simple but impressive function at the   here, PRJA leaders Sharmila, Najima Bibi and James Mayengbam- released the 10-point manifesto. "Eche (elder sister) Sharmila has been struggling for the withdrawal of AFSPA for 16 years and we are also asking for its withdrawal. This is the top agenda of our memorandum," said Erendro.
 
 "All military and paramilitary forces will either leave Manipur or they will relocate their camps to areas beyond a 10-km radius from all residential areas, market places, educational compounds and cultural heritage sites," it added.
 
 The disturbed area status has already been lifted from the Imphal municipal areas covering seven assembly segments in 2004 in the aftermath of the killing of Thangjam Manoram Devi by   Rifles personnel.
 
 On the popular demand of implementing the Inner Line Permit (ILP) system in Manipur, PRJA vows to redraft the three ILP bills to ensure their safe passage, sensitive to the rights of all stakeholders in Manipur.
 
 On the development of a self-reliant economy, PRJA promised to formulate ecologically sustainable agricultural initiatives for mass production and commercial export and encourage and intensify organic integrated farming with special initiatives.
 
 Regarding transparency and accountability for an effective government, the manifesto promised the implementation of the Lokayukta within two years of coming to power and it will bring the chief minister, cabinet ministers, all MLAs and bureaucrats or first grade officials of the state under its purview.
 
 The PRJA promised to implement all the Local Area Development Funds (LADFs) by the Constituency Development Body (CDB). On peace, the manifesto dwelt upon reviewing and initiating conflict resolution and transformation approaches to the multi-facet conflicts prevalent in Manipur. The PRJA also promised development of small-scale industries to make Manipur economically self-reliant and generate jobs for unemployed youth, clean water supply for all, rebuilding high-quality public infrastructure, including roads and bridges.
 
 
