HYDERABAD: As many as 159 international organisations have spoken out against the incidents of hate crime in the US in the aftermath of the shooting of   from Hyderabad in Olathe, Kansas on February 22. The aviation engineer working for Gramin was killed at the   by suspect  , a white man.

 The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, Washington and civil and human rights groups demanded the government to respond more quickly and forcefully to hate-based incidents, which have been occurring at an alarming rate in recent months.
  
 In a statement, the 159 organisations said: “Our diversity is part of what makes America great, and incidents motivated by hate are an affront to the values we share. No one should face acts of violence or intimidation because of their race, ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity, disability, or national origin.”
 
 It pointed out that Just this year, there has been an alarming increase in accounts and reports of hate-based acts of violence and intimidation. These include February shooting in Olathe, Kansas, where two Indian Hindu Americans were attacked, killing Srinivas Kuchibhotla, four mosques burned in the past two months, in Texas, Washington, and Florida, and more defaced by acts of vandalism, numerous bomb threats against Jewish Community Centers, synagogues, and ADL offices around the country.
 
 The recent shooting in Washington state of a Sikh American outside of his home was also cited as an example of hate crime. More examples cited included racist graffiti targeting African Americans in Stamford, Connecticut and at a high school in Lake Oswego, Oregon, an attack on a Latino man in Daly City, California, and an attack on a Hispanic woman in Queens, New York, with both targeted because of their ethnicity, the murders of seven transgender women of color, including six African Americans and one Native American.
 
 “While we welcome President Trump’s remarks to the joint session of Congress, where he noted ‘we are a country that stands united in condemning hate and evil in all of its very ugly forms,’ it was the first public acknowledgement he had made on specific recent events. It is clear that the President has been slow to respond to hate incidents, when he has responded at all. We strongly believe the President has a moral obligation to use his bully pulpit to speak out against acts of hatred when they occur,” the statement said.
 
