KOLKATA: The entire film, television and fashion industry camped at a private nursing home on Saturday after the news broke out that model-turned-anchor   had passed away in a car accident that had also left actor   injured.

 Designer Suchismita Dasgupta, who had worked with both Chauhan and Chatterjee in a video for Nextiles, was at a loss for words. “Last month, Swastika Mukherjee, Mallika Majumder, Vikram and Sonika had shot for this video. I’ve rarely seen someone with such abundance of talent. I would often tell her that she didn’t even realise her own potential. When I met Vikram at the hospital, he stared at me vacantly,” Dasgupta said.
 
 Actors Ankush Hazra and Oindrilla Sen stayed put alongside Chatterjee’s family as they waited for his test reports. “He is my best friend in the industry. When he saw me sitting by his side, he gestured with his hand that he was fine. He tried hard but could not speak,” Hazra said. Sen said, “Vikram is my family’s lifeline after my father passed away suddenly. He is traumatised. We are praying for his recovery,” she said.
 
 Sonika’s friends from the glamour industry were devastated. Many of them broke down when her body was wheeled out in a hearse. Her first modelling campaign was in 2010 for designer Abhishek Dutta. Besides modelling, Sonika also was well-known as a TV anchor. Her stint as the host of the Pro Kabaddi League made her popular. Model co-ordinator Sancharita Guha said Sonika’s death will be a body blow to the industry. 
 
 Describing Sonika as an excellent model, fashion photographer Kaustav Saikia said it was her confidence that made her stand out. “She didn’t have the height yet she would carry herself so well. Besides, she was very pretty. I can’t believe she is no more,” Saikia said.
 
 Make-up artist Ryan was in a daze. “I still can’t believe it,” Ryan said. Fellow model Anjali Chatterjee cancelled her shoot and rushed to the hospital. “On my way, I kept praying that the news would be false,” she said.
 
 Minister Arup Biswas, who dropped by at the hospital, said, “Sonika was a promising model and we are saddened at her death. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee is taking regular updates on Vikram’s health. Doctors have said he’s out of danger but very disturbed,” Biswas said.
 
 As friends bid Sonika adieu and others waited for Chatterjee to recover, all of them hoped against hope that this is a nightmare that she would eventually wake up.
 
 
