GURUGRAM: The mother of  , a former member of the dreaded  , was killed in a shootout at Hans’ house late night on Saturday.

 Hans told police he and his family had been targeted as he was in contact with Kaushal’s rival   Manjeet Mahal, who is currently in Bhondsi jail, servi ng for several murders, extortions and robberies.
 
 The incident took place around midnight, when Hans, who on February 28 was released from Bhondsi jail on interim bail, was allegedly contacted by Kaushal’s nephew Sanjeet at around 9pm, asking him to reach the atta chakki in Naharpur Rupa village.
 
 Hans drove to the rendezvous in his car, where he was stopped by Sanjeet and four others, including Amit Dagar, known as a close aide of Kaushal. Dagar got into the car’s navigator’s seat, while the other three — Chand, Sube Gujjar and Ranveer Saini — got into the back row. Sanjeet followed in another car.
 
 They went back to Hans’ house in Naharpur Rupa and sat in the living room, along with Hans’ father, he told police. Hans asked his mother to make tea. 
 
 Soon, Dagar, Saini and Chand took out weapons. Dagar allegedly fired at Hans’ mother Sudesh, who died on the spot, while Saini and Chand targeted Hans and his father Jogender, who managed to run away. 
 
 Hans later told cops Kaushal’s brother Manish had seen him befriend Mahal in jail, and instructed aides to have him killed when outside.
 
 Police registered an FIR against nine people, including the five involved in the incident, along with Kaushal, Manish, Anil Dagar (Amit Dagar’s brother) and Roshni (Kaushal’s relative), for conspiring to kill Hans. The FIR was registered under sections 120B (punishment for criminal conspiracy), 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to  ), 34 (act by several people for common intent) and sections 25, 54 and 59 of Arms Act. A crime branch team and fingerprint experts have been roped, said police.
 
 ACP (Sadar) Anil Yadav said Hans was in jail for several cases, including murder, but was out on bail. “He was involved in the death of a trader few months back. The accused are still at large but we’re trying to arrest them soon,” he said, speaking to TOI.
 
 He added the murder attempt appears to be a result of resentment against Hans for communicating with Mahal in jail.
 
 
