GURUGRAM: A 45-year-old man was arrested on Thursday for allegedly raping his 15-year-old stepdaughter over a period of several months.

 He also threatened to kill the girl, police said. The accused was produced in a city court on Friday and sent to judicial custody.
 
 The girl told police that she was raped by her stepfather at her rented home in a village near Pataudi where she lived with him and her mother. The girl’s mother was accused’s second wife. 
 
 Police said the accused is from UP and worked as a labourer. He was already married and was a father of two when he got married to the survivor’s mother around three years ago. He started living with his second wife in the village near Pataudi after the marriage, while his first wife stayed in Delhi with her two children.
 
 The survivor — a school dropout — also has a younger brother. She knew her stepfather’s first wife and often spoke to her over phone.
 
 The accused continued to assault the girl for at least six months before the complaint was filed. 
 
 He and his second wife are labourers. He would come back home in the absence of his wife to rape her daughter, the survivor told police. 
 
 The survivor, however, could not muster the courage to tell her mother about the assault. Fed up by the sexual exploitation, the girl recently confided her ordeal in the accused’s first wife when she visited her in Delhi in February. It was on February 18 that the accused’s first wife accompanied the girl to Govindpuri police station where she filed a zero FIR against her husband.
 
 Following a preliminary inquiry, the Delhi Police forwarded the zero FIR to Pataudi police station on Thursday. 
 
 On the basis of the zero FIR, Pataudi police have lodged an FIR against the accused and arrested him. 
 
 He was produced in a city court on Friday and sent to judicial custody, officials said. “The accused has confessed to his crime. The medical examination of the victim has confirmed the rape. We produced the accused in a city court, which remanded him in judicial custody,” said sub inspector Suman, who is investigating the case.
 
