MANGALURU: Four-month-old Sachin from Periya, Kasaragod, had a congenital   called imperforate anus. He was born without the pening to his anus. As a temporary measure, his economically poor parents had performed neo-natal colostomy, which was a messy affair.

 In six weeks, Sachin, too, will be able to pass motions like everyone else. Thanks to the advanced paediatric surgical programme ‘Bal Shalya Kriya Mission’ initiated by Kasturba Medical College Hospital, Attavar, on the occasion of completing 25 years of providing clinical services in collaboration with   International, Houston,USA, and Bantwal Ananth Mallya charitable trust.
 
 The mission helps children up to 16 years with untreated complicated surgical conditions requiring very high surgical expertise, get treated free of cost. This is the first time such operations are being carried out in Karnataka under the mission.
 
 Like Sachin, 24 other children with congenital anomalies, anorectal malformations, abnormalities of bladder,   of the penis and urethra, female anomalies received free   and treatment.
 
 Dr. Ashwin Pimpalwar, paediatric general and thoracic surgeon, Texas Children's Hospital, performed the operations along with KMC’s paediatric surgeons Dr Sadashiva Rao and Dr Jayateertha in five days.
 
 Dr Ashwin said Peedh Parai is a registered non-profit organization that has a group of dedicated surgeons, anesthesiologists, specialist physicians, nurses and support staff. “Our team of 35 members visits different parts of the world to perform surgical procedures on poor children born with a variety of conditions that affect their appearance and bodily functions,'' he said.
 
 The mission’s objective is three-fold - Service, Education and Research. “We encourage medical students, residents, child care nurses and other people who share the spirit of our mission to join us in our efforts. During the visit, we organize teaching and training sessions, guide the local team analyze and resolve obstacles related to healthcare in terms of infrastructure, technology, human resources, training and education. We do research on cost-effective solutions to the problems we come across in consultation with companies which specialize in manufacturing such devices,'' he noted.
 
 The goal is to deliver the advances of surgical sciences to the deprived parts of the world, Dr Ashwin observed, adding that children living for several years with treatable surgical conditions are direct beneficiaries of this mission. “We like to do capacity building so that we can develop 10 to 15 such institutions in India which can do such surgeries,'' he said.
 
 The biggest take away for KMC doctors was the expertise and specialization in using laparoscopy in major cases and for Dr Ashwin it was the local doctors’ expertise in varied areas.
 
 Peedh Parai along with Balmitra Foundation, Lata Mangeshkar Hospital and GSB Sabha, has so far performed surgeries on 230 children with complex congenital anomalies in Nagpur.
 
 Helping in logistics in Mangaluru was Jeetendra Nayak from the Bantwal Trust. The Trust provides medicines from pre to post operative care and food to patients. Dr Ashwin came alone this time around as it was a pilot project to assess the infrastructure. “The infrastructure here is excellent. Some things need to be ironed out, which will be done during the team’s next visit,'' he said.
 
 The work almost begins a year prior to the visit of Peedh Parai team. The screening camps to identify beneficiaries are conducted in active collaboration with the local staff. The data of screened and shortlisted patients is entered with detailed information on each patient– age, sex, diagnosis, potential surgical plan, investigations required, special remarks, etc. The trust offers funds for medicines and provide catering and other logistical requirements.
 
 The mission helps children up to 16 years with untreated complicated surgical conditions
 
 * The 35-member team performs different operations children to correct birth defects
 
 The goal is to deliver the advances of surgical sciences to the deprived parts of the world
 
 * The team including a few paediatric nurses, counsellors have travelled on their own expenses and are operating free
 
 * Camp has specialists from all fields of paediatric surgery
 
 The defects include congenital defects, urological problems like genitalia located at wrong places, abnormalities of bladder,
 
 
