MUMBAI: Fugitive gangster   Ibrahim’s younger brother   (60) was arrested by the quick response team of Thane police late Monday evening after a builder lodged a complaint of   against him.

 The only one of 11 siblings of Dawood to be currently based in the city,   was held from his residence at Pakmodia Street by a 40-member team led by ACP Nivrutti Kadam and senior inspector Pradeep Sharma.
 
 Police said Kaskar had been threatening builders in the Thane region on Dawood’s behalf and demanding huge amounts running into crores as extortion money. Many of these builders from Thane, Ulhasnagar and Dombivli had allegedly paid massive amounts to Kaskar. One of the builders who had suffered big losses during demonetization and was under debt filed a complaint with the police. Police sources said Kaskar had taken four flats from the builder.
 
 Senior police officials said Kaskar was not acting alone but was being assisted in his extortion activities by two builders—one from Thane and the other from Mumbra. They have also been picked up. One of them had been arrested in an abetment to suicide case two years ago.
 
 TOI has learned that Kaskar was to be picked up on Saturday itself but police found out he was not at home that evening and did not want to conduct a raid at the residence in his absence as it would alert him.
 
 Sources said that a police team had been keeping tabs on Kaskar ever since his name cropped up in the investigation.
 
 “Beside the builder’s complaint, there are conversations where Kaskar and his accomplice can be heard threatening builders and demanding money. We will produce him before the court on Tuesday,” said a source on condition of anonymity.
 
 Sources said the complainant, who was tired of Kaskar’s repeated threats, approached Thane police commissioner Parambir Singh. After studying the complaint and the evidence on hand, Singh directed Sharma to proceed further with the investigation. There are also reports that Kaskar may be booked under the stringent MCOCA (Maharashtra Control of Organized Crime Act).
 
 Kaskar was deported from the UAE in 2003 and arrested in a murder and conspiracy case. He was later acquitted in both cases. He was also arrested in 2015 for allegedly assaulting a real estate agent in south Mumbai for extortion money of Rs3 lakh.
 
 Iqbal Kaskar initially used to stay, with wife Rizwana Hasan and his children, only at his constable father’s house in Dambarwala building in Pakmodia Street. But after an attempt on his life in 2011 and after his sister Haseena Parkar’s death, he also began staying intermittently at Haseena Parkar’s flat at Gordon Apartment in Nagpada.
 
 On Kaskar’s acquittal in 2012, Rizwana had filed an appeal in court to delete remarks on their passports so that their children could go abroad for their studies.
 
