PATNA:   would soon be a reality at   and Hospital ( ).

 According to PMCH renal transplant surgeon Dr Ashok Singh, the first transplant would most probably be conducted at the hospital in December. Earlier, patients who needed a kidney transplant had to be referred to   (IGIMS) or other hospital.
 
 “A separate operation theatre and ICU will also be set up for this purpose at Rajendra Surgical Block for the time being,” said Dr Singh, adding once the superspeciality building is complete, the renal transplant unit would be shifted there. 
 
 Talking about the infrastructure, he said the unit will have an operation theatre (OT) and ICU with six beds. The cost for the OT alone will be near Rs4 crore. The ICU beds will be in cubicles so as to save the patients from developing infection. Two beds in the ICU will also have dialysis facility. “Once the patient undergoes renal transplant, we will keep him there for three weeks. We also have plans to conduct cadaver transplant in the future,” he said. This development is part of the central government plan under the Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha.
 
 A bunker for radiotherapy in the oncology department will also be built, which will house a linear accelerator and other equipment for radiotherapy for the treatment of cancer, said HoD of nephrology, Dr P N Pandit. 
 
 “The whole project will cost Rs30 crore. The bunker will have a 30-inch concrete wall and would cost Rs2 crore. The project will be completed most probably before March next year. The drawing has been sent to the Atomic Energy Regulatory Board for its approval. This will be the first government radiotherapy centre in Bihar and the treatment will be free,” Dr Pandit said.
 
 Sources said all these infrastructure would be developed from central fund. The central government had recently sanctioned Rs200 crore for three hospitals in the state — PMCH, Anugrah Narayan Medical College and Hospital (ANMCH) Gaya and Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JLNMCH) at Bhagalpur.
 
 
