NEW DELHI: There is consternation among   about schools asking for documents such as   and vaccination charts to enable the admission of children into nursery classes. The refusal of schools to accept nameless   or those with temporary names has also put many complacent parents into a quandary. 

 Rakesh, a resident of Suraj Park in Rohini, had to leave the application form incomplete after the school made an Aadhaar card mandatory. “Almost all schools near my home require Aadhaar cards,” fretted Rakesh, a mobile repair electrician. “I now have to rush and get an Aadhaar identity for my 7-year-old son.” 
 
 There is confusion because the Directorate of Education clarified on January 9 that Aadhaar issued in the name of any of the parents would suffice as proof of address. Says Shikha Bagga, secretary of NGO Justice for All, which helps parents with admission queries: “We can understand schools demanding the Aadhaar papers of the parents, but it is not right for children as young as three years old.” 
 
 Similarly, lawyer-activist Khagesh Jha pointed out, “The Right to Education was conceptualised to remove barriers to education. But if schools use Aadhaar to hinder admissions, then this will be in contempt of the Supreme Court, which has said that Aadhaar should never be made mandatory.” 
 
 But it is not just the identity papers that are worrying parents. Birth certificates too are a problem. Often, births are registered without the official name or under a temporary name. Ashok Pandey, principal of Alhcon International School, said that though he sympathised with parents getting such certificates, schools had no option but to ask for papers with proper names.
 
 This has left Vipin Jain in trouble. He wants to send his 3-year-old son to school, but the birth certificate does not have the tot’s name. “I reapplied for a new certificate on January 7, but it usually takes over 20 days to get it. By then, the last day of submitting forms, January 23, will be long gone,” the harried man said.
 
 Aditi Sood also applied for her daughter’s birth certificate on January 2, and in the meanwhile, on the school’s advice, submitted an affidavit. Yet, she said, the school had kept her daughter’s admission “on hold”. While admitting that a birth certificate is crucial for verification of the child’s birth date, Alhcon’s Pandey said that schools should perhaps consider giving time parents who do not possess such certificates.
 
 There are issues over other documents like vaccination charts and income certificates too, leading education activist Khagesh Jha to rue that by not enumerating the documents needed for admission, the government had failed to ensure “that all schools have a fixed norm and parents aren’t hassled”.
 
 
