PUNE: The state   ( ) in Pune invoked the stringent provisions of the   (MCOCA) against 20 people. This is the first such instance. 

 All the accused are allegedly members of an organized crime syndicate and responsible for the Pangarmal   tragedy that happened five months back in neighbouring   district. 
 
 While 13 accused are in Ahmednagar jail, four have been released on bail. 
 
 One suspect has passed away and the remaining two are absconding. 
 
 A total of nine people died, two lost their vision and one was left paralytic on February 13 after consuming adulterated liquor at the dinner party of two Shiv Sena candidates, who had contested the local body elections in Pangarmal. 
 
 The case was initially investigated by the Ahmednagar police. After the incident rocked the state legislative assembly, the government transferred the investigations to the CID. The department took over the investigations on May 11.
 
 CID additional superintendent of police (Addl Sp) Ganesh More filed the first chargesheet against the suspects for committing an offence of culpable homicide not amounting to murder. 
 
 Other charges of the Indian Penal Code and Maharashtra Prohibition Act were also slapped against the accused. 
 
 Following the transfer of More, Addl Sp Dilip Naukudkar of the deparment’s Pune unit took over the probe. 
 
 Investigations revealed that the main suspect, Jagjitsingh Kisansingh Gambhir, ran an organized crime syndicate with the help of accomplices. The illicit business included selling of adulterated liquor.
 
 Naukudkar submitted a proposal through the CID superintendent of police P P Akkanouru for seeking permission to prosecute Gambhir and others under the MCOCA on July 5. 
 
 After examining the proposal, statements of witnesses and evidence, the special inspector general of police (CID) Sunil Ramanand granted permission to prosecute the suspects under section 23(1)(a) of the MCOCA. 
 
 On Friday, Ramanand said, “Gambhir and others are involved in 24 cases mostly related to sale of adulterated liquor, dacoity, extortion, cheating and rioting since 2010.”
 
 He told TOI, “We have collected evidence against the syndicate run by Gambhir. The syndicate has indulged in unlawful activities such as threating and intimidating people. They have also caused the death of others by poisoning them to obtain pecuniary benefits.”
 
 “Investigations have revealed that the suspects used cheap spirit containing methanol, instead of using ethanol. They were aware of the fact that it can cause death, blindness, render one paralytic and cause massive damage to the nervous system,” Ramanand said.
 
 “Naukudkar will now obtain production warrants from the special court in Nashik for seeking custody of the suspects for conducting investigations under the MCOCA,” the official added. 
 
