KOLKATA: The city may run into a funds crisis in the middle of festivities with   shutting down for six consecutive days from Wednesday on acc-ount of Durga Puja followed by a Sunday and  . Although banks have assured seamless cash supply through ATMs, citizens are keeping their fingers crossed in view of last year’s bitter experience when a similar six-day bank closure had seen several ATMs run dry in the middle of Pujas. 

 Worse, with companies headquartered outside   likely to credit salaries either on Friday (September 29) or Monday (October 2), bulk cash withdrawals on both these days may compound the crisis. In 2016, when the banks remained closed between Oct-ober 6 and 12, salary credits didn’t pose a problem. Yet, there were complaints of ATMs going ‘low-on-cash’. 
 
 According to banking industry insiders, ATM withdrawals in Kolkata and the suburbs tend to spike at the beginning of the festive season. Already this has led the ATM cash-dispensing pattern, a software-run algorithm that ensures cash is replenished before the machines run out of money, to sputter in isolated cases. To beat the “temporary“ crisis,   has already been allowed by the RBI to keep several of its 211 currency chests (RBI-monitored treasuries run by the banks) open on at least two of the six days. “We believe we will be able to replenish most ATMs in all the six days,” said a senior SBI official. However, movement of cash vans across Kolkata on festival days takes longer than usual. “If a van normally services six city ATMs, on festival days it can service only half of it,” sources said. 
 
 An HDFC Bank spokesperson from Mumbai said, “The HDFC Bank operates 250 plus ATMs in and around Kolkata. The agencies which replenish cash has been instructed to fill up the ATMs to their optimum capacity. These agencies remain closed only till Friday. On Saturday, cash will again be replenished. We do not see any reason for worry.” SBI and HDFC Bank together account for almost 50% of the ATMs in the city .
 
 ICICI Bank and Axis Bank, industry sources said, follow a pattern of “overnight vaulting“, which allows them to hand over surplus cash to their MSPs (manage service providers) to take care of contingencies and keep ATMs running even during extended holidays. 
 
 A senior bank manager explained: “An ATM, according to the dispensing pattern, is packed with anything from Rs 5 lakh to Rs 20 lakh. Part of the cash is a buffer amount kept in the fourth cassette to ensure that the machine doesn’t run dry . But should it happen, the MSP (who have now replaced the traditional CRA or cash replenishment agencies), is contract-bound to replenish it within 15-90 minutes within city limits, and the next day for off-site, outstation ATMs.”
 
 
