LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister   plans to embark on a whirlwind campaign tour from next week, holding as many as five election rallies a day in as many assembly constituencies. His wife and MP from Kannauj, Dimple Yadav is expected to accompany him and also make speeches at rallies.
 
  “The campaign blueprint has been drawn up and CM Akhilesh Yadav had already dispatched teams to all 403 assembly constituencies ten days ago after the January 1 national executive of the party where he took over as the national president,” Sunil Singh Yadav, a close aide of the Chief Minister, told ET.
  
  The teams, he said, are already interacting with voters to know issues of the constituencies and get feedback for the manifesto of the party. He said the aim was to hold a rally of the CM in each constituency and the CM would fly by chopper to cover maximum ground.
  
  “Dimple Yadav will be a star campaigner for us...the public is eager to listen to her too,” Yadav said. He discounted the talk from opposition parties that the family feud had taken a toll on the campaign, saying “the conversation about Akhilesh Yadav is already there among each family for last two months.” He said the BJP was running a campaign “at booths from its computers” while   had a ground level cadre which was unmatched in UP.
  
    MLC Udayveer Singh, another key person part of Akhilesh’s core team, told ET that the camp was confident they would get the party symbol of   and the party name from the EC which will hear both sides on Friday. “Even if we do not get the symbol and it is frozen, it will not take us more than 24 hours to penetrate the new symbol to the ground level. Purre UP nazar gadaye hue hai ki Akhilesh ko kya symbol milta hai. When the symbol becomes a matter of curiosity for the entire state, it is even easier to recollect at the ground level than the traditional symbol,” Singh said. Other leaders close to Akhilesh said Mulayam Singh Yadav’s picture will feature in the CM’s campaign as well. They dismissed Mulayam’s charge that Akhilesh camp was asking for the motorcycle symbol, saying the same was already allotted to a small party. “We will get to furnish a choice of three symbols if the cycle is frozen. A choice will be made,” a leader said.
  
  Another functionary said 150 youngsters of the party’s youth wing had been sent to PM Narendra Modi’s mega rally in Lucknow last week where each of them spoke to about 100 people present at the rally about their choice for the CM face.
  
  “60 per cent of them said Akhilesh was better for CM while Modi was good for PM,” the leader said. The Akhilesh camp is hopeful of an alliance with   by the end of this week, saying Congress should agree to contest on about 80 seats. “Congress won 28 seats in 2012 polls and came 2nd on 24 seats. On 7 seats, Congress finished 3rd while SP had finished 4th.
  
  Congress was then in alliance with RLD and the latter won 9 seats and came 2nd on 6 seats. So in total, Congress can rightfully ask for about 75-80 seats and they may win half of them. By contesting alone on 403 seats, Congress may not win even 10 seats,” another leader close to Akhilesh said.
  
