CHENNAI/HYDERABAD: In what could be a big relief to Chennai,   chief minister N   is said to have agreed to release 2.5tmcft of Krishna water to augment the city's drinking water supply. This follows a meeting he had with his   counterpart, O Paneerselvam. Detailed modalities for the water release from AP dams to Tamil Nadu will be worked out at a meeting between officials of both states in Tirupati next week.

 A delegation led by   on Thursday met Naidu at Velagapudi, the temporary secretariat complex in the Amaravati capital region, and urged him to step up release from Kandaleru reservoir so that at least 5tmcft (thousand million cubic feet) of water is realised in the city. Panneerselvam pointed to the present storage of the Somasila reservoir (34.81tmcft) and the Kandaleru reservoir (13.24tmcft) that supply Krishna water to Chennai. “The present rate of flow of about 1,000 cusecs released from the Kandaleru reservoir for Chennai is inadequate, given the acute drinking water supply position,“ he said.
 
 When the two-hour meet could not come to a conclusion, Naidu took the lead and asked the officials to work out a plan to release at least 2.5 tmc of water from the existing reserves. He directed the officials from both the sides to sit together again in Tirupati next week and finalise the modalities.
 
 “A detailed plan for release of water to Tamil Nadu will be chalked out at the Tirupati meeting,“ said an official privy to the chief ministers' negotiations. Naidu pointed out that AP too had a deficient northeast monsoon.
 
 Paneerselvam said that even cyclone Vardah, which devastated Chennai and its suburbs in December, did not bring much rainfall.He underlined the “dire need“ for assured supply from Andhra Pradesh to support Chennai's drinking water needs. The combined storage of the four drinking water reservoirs of Chennai was 1.5tmcft on Wednesday , as against the total capacity of 11.05tmcft. While the 1983 interstate agreement between the states guaranteed 12tmcftyear at the inter-state border, TN did not receive water in 2015-16, and only 0.99tmcft in 2016-2017.
 
 The meeting was attended by TN PWD minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, chief secretary  , advisor to the government Sheela Balakrishnan and a battery of officials from both sides.
 
