Kolkata: Industry doyen   on Tuesday mentioned Bengal’s ‘syndicate problem’ at an industry meet in the city, prompting state finance minister   Mitra to bemoan how this was a legacy the Trinamool government had inherited from the previous and explain how the current dispensation had adopted a two-pronged strategy to address the problem.

 Birla, chairman emeritus of the   Group, exp-ressed his concern at the 14th edition of Ficci Banking Conclave, days after Trinamool MP Sugato Bose spoke against ‘syndicate Raj’ after local suppliers came calling at his residence. 
 
 Asked by the industrialist what his government was doing to curb the growth of syndicates that were creating fear psychosis in the minds of investors,   pointed out that the Mamata Banerjee government had inherited one crore unemployed youth from the earlier regime. 
 
 “Syndicate has a history of the past much before we came to power. Our chief minister Mamata Banerjee is addressing the issue and she has taken a zero-tolerance policy for this. There will be strong administrative measures and we have to create employment,” he added. 
 
 Mitra also urged SBI chairman Arundhati Bhattacharya present at the conclave to help the state government create more job opportunities and employment. “The political economy is all about employment. If you see economic history then when there is employment there is political stability. When there is no employment then there is bound to be disruption. I urge SBI and other banks to take care of this political economy,” he added. 
 
 Pointing to the low credit deposit (CD) ratio of SBI (50.58%) in Bengal, the state finance minister said the largest PSU lender along with other banks should step up credit growth in three sectors which have huge employment potential: agriculture, self-help groups and MSME (medium and small medium enterprises), he added.
 
 Bhattacharya later admitted that a CD ratio of 50.58% in Bengal was below comfort level but felt the right atmosphere had to be created for credit absorption. “Unless there is proper atmosphere for credit absorption, a higher level of credit could lead to higher non-performing assets (NPA),” she said.
 
 The SBI chairman suggested that in Bengal, SBI can do value-chain financing in agriculture. “We can finance farmers, logistics, cold chain to processing, where we shall have a better control over cash flow. East is endowed with a lot of potential but we have to channel it properly,” she added.
 
