PUNE: The four wards panel system, introduced for the first time, may lead to mismanagement of time at polling booths and hamper the election commission’s 100% voting  . 

 In fact, according to the election commission’s calculations, 100% voting will not be possible at any given polling booth.
 
 A group of aspirants and activists have already objected to the polling booth system, demanding rearrangement of voting booths.
 
 Candidates as well as activists have pointed out that during a meeting with commission officials it was clear that one voter would require 1.25 minutes to cast his or her vote and each booth will have an average 750 voters. Based on these figures, the total time needed to cast the votes would be around 15 hours, which would exceed the 10-hour period made available between 7am and 5pm.
 
 “The Maharashtra state election commission has been running an extensive campaign for 100% voter turnout for the upcoming PMC election. However, the election commission’s calculation is wrong,” said Sandip Sawarkar, an activist with the Lokayat organization.
 
 Sawarkar added that even the average voting pattern shows that 100% voting has never taken place. Authorities should ensure that their infrastructure and arrangement is fool proof, he pointed out.
 
 “It appears that the existing infrastructure can cater to around 60% to 70% voters. The election commission should increase the number of voting booths. If 100% voting target is to be achieved, the commission has to ensure that no more than 400 voters are listed at each booth,” said Shrikrishna Kulkarni, a candidate. 
 
 Over 14,000 people will be trained for the voting phase, while as many as 1,400 officials will be trained to handle the responsibility of counting. They include staff members of various government departments, teachers and non-teaching staff of civic and private schools.
 
 As many as 10 municipal corporations, including Pune, will go the polls on February 21. The poll result will be announced on February 23. Over 26.43 lakh voters have registered for the election, which will elect 162 corporators. As many as 41 panels have been created, each including four wards.
 
 Despite several attempts election officer Satish Kulkarni remained unavailable for a comment.
 
