COIMBATORE:   on Thursday threatened to go on strike on June 8 if the regional transport office failed to implement the recent high court order on collecting daily fine for the delay in renewing fitness certificates.

 The court had directed the officials not to collect daily fine for the delay in renewing fitness certificates.
 
 Around 100 autorickshaw drivers also staged a protest in front of the regional transport office on Dr   here demanding immediate implementation of the court order.
 
 They said their plan was to petition the officials against collecting daily fine for the delay in renewing fitness certificates. But as there weren’t any senior officials at the regional transport office, the autorickshaw drivers resorted to protest.
 
 In order to bring about more road safety, fines for all offences, including the delay in renewal of fitness certificates and driving licenses, were hiked from Rs 100 for two months to Rs 50 a day in the Motor Vehicle Act (Amendment), 2016. “The fine comes around to Rs 1,550 a month. It is exorbitant, considering we hardly make a profit of Rs 200 or Rs 300 a day,” said the general secretary of Coimbatore District Auto Workers Union, P  .
 
 The central government passed the amendment in 2016 and   was the first to implement it in January this year. “After several petitions, the   had ordered the regional transport offices to stop collecting fine for the delay in renewing fitness certificates,” Sukumar said.   has also stopped collecting this fine. “However, the state government is yet to implement the court order. We wanted to petition the officials to implement the order. But they left the office when they came to know about our plans,” he added.
 
 Autorickshaw unions have threatened to remain off roads on June 8, if their demand was not met. “There is a court order in place. And we want the stage government to implement the same. If it can hurriedly implement the amendment, why can’t it follow the court direction,” they asked.
 
