 seems relaxed at his St Cruz residence as he basks in his new-found status as Goa's first grandmaster ( ) in chess. For someone who never won a national title or performed well at national events, such an honour - the highest in the sport - is rare.

 "I remember my father taking me to participate in a local tournament at the   in Bambolim. I not only did well at the tournament, participating for the first time, but also ended up winning the title," says Anurag.
 
 That out-of-the-blue victory gave Anurag the confidence to take on the best in the business and with his mother Bharti, an officer at the  , teaching him the basics of the game, he knew he had able support at home.
 
 Turns out, even his father, Arvind, an ophthalmic assistant at a hospital in Mapusa, was an equally ardent supporter, and his stint as the secretary of the   ( ) helped him give Anurag the boost he needed.
 
 "I didn't do too well initially," he recalls. "I could have won many titles in age category events, but somehow, I would falter in the penultimate or last round. I never won a national title. It was quite upsetting."
 
 Anurag, 23, took his lack of success to heart. He kept wondering why he stumbled in the final round, improved, and soon enough, was as good, if not better, than most others. He also realised that he was particularly skilled in open tournaments than in team events.
 
 "I started focusing on tournaments, which were rewarding in terms of titles and points. I got the international master (IM) title in 2013. I must thank the Dempos for all the support they provided me just before I headed to Europe," says Anurag.
 
 Since being named goodwill ambassador for Dempo and receiving financial support, Anurag has made five trips to Europe, collecting crucial Elo points (which ascertain the relative skill of players) and titles along the way. Each time, he returned a better player. But when he flew home last week after his most successful sojourn, the reception at the   had to be seen to be believed.
 
 "I would have liked a lot lesser attention. I understand the love and affection of people towards me and I am grateful for that. It will be a temporary phase and then I will have to move on. I shouldn't lose focus on what I have to do from here onwards," says Anurag, who relies on books and modern computer tactics to tame his opponents.
 
 When he is not immersing himself in chess, there is little else to do. On European trips, apart from playing chess, he has to cook his own food, which he manages pretty well.
 
 After so much of labour, the GM title will come as a huge relief. For so long, it was a case of 'so near, yet so far', and now that the breakthrough has finally been made, Anurag will take a two-month interval before setting out to conquer again.
 
 "The dream is fulfilled, but this is not the end. The next challenge is to get past 2,600 Elo points. I am not setting big targets. For me, small milestones matter more than the ultimate destination," he says. Anurag deserves this break. Nobody has earned it more.
 
 
 
 
 
  22
 
 
  St Cruz 
 
 
    (Nagpur)
 
 
 Fide Master (FM)
 
 
 International Master (IM)
 
 
 Grandmaster (GM)
 
 
 39
 
 *Plans his own travel schedule, including boarding and lodging.
 
 *Started traveling on his own at age 18
 
 *Gave up dream of attaining a degree in Computer Science to pursue career in chess
 
