 Agra: In a daring heist in broad daylight on the Yamuna Expressway, four armed men hijacked a car, abducted the occupants and made off with 198 kg of silver jewellery worth Rs 50 lakh.   Two employees of Agra jeweller Manish Agarwal were taking the consignment to New Delhi on Thursday morning.    “At about 7.30 am, when they halted at a place called Zero Point on the expressway, they were accosted by four men on the pretext of asking for a lift. The men then held up my employees at gunpoint,” Agarwal told TOI on Friday.    The men were bundled into the car by the gang and taken back down the expressway, and eventually thrown out of the vehicle near Karhal in Mainpuri district. By the time police were informed of the hijack, the gang and the vehicle had vanished.    Agarwal said, “My driver Ram Babu Sharma and employee Saurab had been working for me for more than a decade and I trust them completely. After they were rescued by locals in Karhal, the two filed a complaint in Mainpuri. Later they contacted me and narrated the entire incident.”    The jeweller added, “We assume the CCTV cameras at the toll plaza may have recorded the four men. This could help police to identify and nab them.”    Meanwhile, Agarwal gave a written complaint of the matter to New Agra police, which allegedly refused to entertain the matter. Later the jeweller met additional director general of police of Agra zone Ajay Anand and narrated the matter.    ADG Anand said, “I have apprised the Noida senior superintendent of police about the incident, and both Agra and Noida police have formed teams to track the robbers. A zero FIR will be forwarded to the Noida SSP. Our teams have got a strong lead and soon we will crack the case and apprehend the men involved.”    By the time this report was filed, Agarwal was on his way to meet the Noida SSP.  ​​  Last month, three persons including two couriers for bullion traders were robbed in Udaipur of 2kg in gold 420 kg of silver ornaments, worth Rs 1 crore. Police later recovered the jewellery.