Bengaluru:   on Friday urged the government to expedite the   so that non-RTE parents are not burdened. 

 Schools under the aegis of the Associated Managements of Private Schools in Karnataka (KAMS) gathered outside primary and secondary education minister Tanveer Sait’s office on Friday to protest against the latest order from the education department that parents shall not be charged for uniforms and books purchased from the school under the RTE quota.
 
 Until last year, parents were forced to purchase books and uniforms from third party vendors but the department decided to do away with this practice, making schools responsible for distributing the materials.
 
 D Shashikumar, general secretary, KAMS, added, “We (schools) are not in a position to provide free books, uniform and other services to RTE students as the reimbursements are always an issue and we transfer the burden on the 75% of non-RTE students. Instead, the government must make these facilities available to parents directly and minimize our involvement in it.”
 
 Nearly 1.29 lakh seats have been allotted this year under the RTE quota and the department of public instruction has completed the first round of admissions for these students. 
 
 Parents misusing RTE Act
 
 Schools in the association also said catering to the economically underprivileged is doing them more harm than good. As most of these budget schools adopt a practice of receiving late payments of fees by parents, some do not recieve the fees for months at a time. These students do not belong to the bracket of 25% quota under the RTE Act. 
 
 Bhagya Shree, administrative staff of Active Public School, Bannerghatta, said, “Around 55% of students in our school have not paid their fees. If we demand payment, they enroll their children in other schools without even getting a transfer certificate from us. We receive letters from schools directly seeking the TC,” she said. 
 
 Swaroopa T, administrative staff of New Carmel School, Hegganahalli, said, “If we demand early payment of the fees, parents start spreading rumours about the school and the staff. They start a chain of false allegations against teachers to the administration. In the worst-case scenario, they bring goons to the school and accuse us of harassing them.” 
 
 Textbooks in market 
 
 As state board schools across Karnataka await the revised textbooks from the government, they have also requested the minister for primary and secondary education to ensure that school managements don’t insist on purchasing textbooks through advance cash payments. KAMS requested the government textbook committee to provide them directly to parents, thereby not causing any logistical issues for schools. 
 
 ‘Taking all measures’
 
 We’ll make sure that textbooks reach parents directly without the interference of middlemen. A few schools make money in the name of facilities. If anybody is caught in illegal selling and false pricing of textbooks, action will be taken against them. As far as RTE students are concerned, the department is concerned about the 75% non-RTE students and will take neccessary steps to ensure transparency in fee payment as well.
 
 Tanveer Sait | primary and secondary education minister 
 
 
