AHMEDABAD: The   has upheld the discharge of a builder from criminal liabilities in connection with the collapse of a building in Paldi — Shitalbag Apartments — during the 2001 earthquake. Six persons were killed and several others injured in the collapse. The builder of the apartments, Rajiv Suttaria, was booked by Ellisbridge police under various provisions of the IPC, including cheating and criminal conspiracy and culpable homicide not amounting to murder, for the violation of the Gujarat Ownership of Flat Act and the   (BPMC) Act. He was also accused of not adhering to building bylaws of the  . A chargesheet was filed against him after investigation.

  In 2007, a city sessions court discharged Suttaria from the case. The state government questioned his discharge before the high court. After hearing the case, Justice Z K Saiyed upheld Suttaria’s discharge on the grounds that there was no evidence of irregularities committed by him on such counts as getting the building plan sanctioned, or using building material.
 
 Besides, the HC observed that the residents of the apartment had entered into a compromise with Suttaria after filing a civil suit. The residents conceded that the material used for the construction of the building was of good quality and the foundation was strong. “…all the flat holders had full satisfaction towards the compliance (of consent terms). Therefore, this court is of the view that there is no reason to proceed with the trial against the accused,” the HC order reads.
 
 In another case of building collapse registered with the Navrangpura police station, an   employee Nilesh Baranda, ward inspector Paresh Patel, and a structural engineer Rajendrakumar Desai had also been discharged by the trial court, and the order has been confirmed now by the high court. The HC cited discharge orders passed by the high court in 2010 on petitions filed by many builders and AMC employees, who were booked for alleged irregularities in construction after various buildings failed to withstand the jolt on January 26, 2001.
 
