NEW DELHI: A most revered shrine of Goddess Kali has become the site for assertion of women’s rights. A dispute in one of the Bhardwaj families — the custodian Brahmin   of   in south Delhi — on conducting rituals and other daily affairs at the temple is all set to shape the religious and gender discourse over the ongoing issue of   being allowed to perform certain roles in religious shrines.

 Two sisters of a priest family have approached the courts, asserting their right to conduct temple ceremonies and get an equal share in the offerings which many say run into several crores a month.
 
 But the male priests disagree vehemently. Dinesh Pandit, officiating head priest and treasurer, says: “The claim of these women is absolutely wrong. Only the male lineage is traditionally entrusted with priestly work. Women help with making bhog and washing Mata’s clothes and utensils. Our traditions don’t allow girls above 12 years to touch Mata.”
 
 The priestly duties, such as doing the aarti, changing clothes and other rituals in the temple are done in turns by representatives of five original groups — one of Avdhoot jogis and four from Gaur Bharadwaj Brahmins — who are said to have been made responsible for the shrine by the founders.
 
 The number of sub-groups in Brahmins over the years has increased to 350, and each gets its month-long turn based on a hereditary quota. The four Brahmin groups — Rambaksh, Bahadur, Tansukh and Jasram — get their equal month-long turns in succession after the turn of the Jogis (renouncers). 
 
 “During a family’s turn, all income from donations and other sources goes to that family,” explained Mahant Surender Nath, head of Kalkaji Peeth.
 
 A ‘chhoti’ special puja costs Rs 2,100 while the ‘badi’ special puja costs Rs 5,100. Besides, there are dozens of donation boxes spread through the temple complex, many around the sanctum sanctorum, indicating the huge amount that is collected. A priest put the monthly figure to be around Rs 6-7 crore but it could be much higher.
 
 The current family, comprising of a brother and three sisters, got its month-long ‘sewa-bari’ (turn) after three years. 
 
 “Even at the time of their last turn, this family had issues. It is nothing but greed for money,” alleged treasurer Pandit. “Women can’t wear janeu or even dhoti ki laang and what will happen to the job during that one week of the month,” he added, hinting towards menstruation. In fact, most of the priests around the complex abhorred the idea of menstruating women touching the deity.
 
 Deepak Bharadwaj, president of the temple’s prabandhak committee, said: “We respect the courts and their verdict but we also have a right to express our sentiments. We have been serving Mata for 5,000 years and can’t leave our thousands-years-old tradition just like this. 
 
 Head of Kalika Peeth Mahant Surender Nath said property and puja were two completely separate issues. “I am all for the sisters getting their rightful financial share but not by breaking our traditions. There is no restriction on women entering the temple or praying to Mata. They can’t just touch the deity or be in the area meant for priestly work. 
 
 Nath alleged this was part of a “sustained effort to permanently damage Hindu traditions as in Shani Shingnapur by the Bhumata brigade”.
 
 Not all devotees agree with the priests. “According to them, male priests can touch female Mata and change her clothes but the women according to them are too dirty to be considered fit for the same purpose,” said one worshipper, Durga Devi. “They are pandits but do they even think about what they are saying?” Shyamwati, another visitor, was more accommodating: “It takes time to change things. We are allowed to pray now. In due course, the pujarins will come.”
 
