NAGPUR: With the city entering the last week of campaigning before  ,   are leaving no stone unturned in reaching out to voters. One very popular tactic is using   to convey messages. Rickshaws dedicated to roaming city lanes with loud music, slogans and speeches blaring from loudspeakers are suddenly visible everywhere. This content was recorded by   and song writers over the last few weeks, with the express intention of catching people’s attention.

 Three drummers from a Ramdaspeth group have also been going around various wards in rickshaws as part of the BJP campaign. They start the day at 8am and go on till 8pm. Yesterday was their third day and they will be going around until election day. “We wanted to avoid noise pollution. Drums are a good way to attract attention,” says volunteer Ashok Kedar.
 
 NCP has been taking help of artistes playing dhol tasha and banjo with a certain ‘Abhi Bhai Dhamaal Group’ from Verma Layout area. “There are seven of us and we start the day at 10am. We have been tasked with covering about 50km each day,” informs one of the musicians.
 
 However, songs remain a popular choice for most parties, who change words but keep the tune intact. ‘Laila oh Laila’, ‘Koi humse jeet na paave’, ‘Nagada’ are some of the melodies doing the rounds; with ‘Zingaat’ being the most popular song in the playlist this election.
 
 Among patriotic songs, ‘Chak De’ and ‘India waale’ are commonly heard. “While writing the script, we keep the issues in mind and try to present it in a ‘filmi’ style. Joh logon ke dimaag mein rehta hai, wahi chalta hai. We then get members of various orchestra to sing the songs and release them on CDs and pen drives. The earning is anywhere between Rs15,000 to Rs40,000 per song,” says a volunteer.
 
 However, recording artiste Vikas Borkar says there is little financial profit. He recorded a rendition of ‘Zindagi maut na ban jaaye’ for this poll. “It is true that there is a lot of work, but candidates want the songs for the least possible price. Most of my songs have been stolen by others,” he says. Nagesh Gedam, a music arranger, too has written lyrics for a party this year. He says, “Fast numbers attract most people.”
 
 Slogans and punchlines are integral to all campaigns. Vikas Thakre, Congress city president, has a tagline saying ‘Vikas bhau mhanje vichar, vikas, parivartan ani pragati’. People from within the party think of these, he says, sharing his own creation ‘Congress ka pakka vaada, paani ka bill karenge aadha’.
 
 However, there have been complaints from many parts about the nuisance of the noisy campaign. “This kind of campaigning has been spoiling children’s sleep and hampering studies,” says a resident of Sindhi Colony about the musical campaigns.
 
