There are times when despite the efforts, your body just refuses to give up on the diet-and-exercise resistant fats. Areas around the thighs, abdomen, bulges around the back, flanks and other localised fat deposits can be difficult to get rid off permanently. And, that is when one needs   alternatives and liposuction to help them — men and women who are interested in reshaping and contouring their bodies turn to this. 

 These treatments do not require an incision or anaesthesia and they often come with less downtime. Some of the latest technologies that are designed to improve the quality and appearance of problem areas that store excess fat are ultrasound lipolysis, non-ablative radio frequency, cryo lipolysis and laser lipolysis. We list a few important ones for you.
 
 
 
 It is also known as Ultrasound/Ultrasonic Cavitation, Ultrasound Fat Reduction or Non-surgical Ultrasound Liposuction. The low frequency ultrasound technology allows a predetermined amount of energy to be focused onto the subcutaneous adipose tissue. As the ultrasound waves converge towards the targeted areas, they cumulate at a certain point and produce the so-called cavitation effect leading to mechanical breaking of the cellular membranes and the release in the inter-cellular fluid of the stored triglycerides, which are rapidly and naturally metabolised. Ultrasound can be concentrated in a defined subcutaneous area to produce clinically relevant fat lysis, while avoiding any damage to blood vessels, nerves, connective tissue and the underlying organs. 
 This simple procedure for fat reduction can be done within the clinic and results are usually seen immediately. It is suggested to periodically maintain these treatments in order to see the best results. 
 
 
 
 Advanced NARF technology delivers the optimal RF energy to the dermal and subcutaneous layers. It targets the elastic fibres of the skin, which causes collagen regeneration, collagen remodelling and skin tightening. As they are heated, they contract and collagen strands are pulled closer resulting in immediately tightened skin. The deep heating effect in turn accelerates the fat cell metabolism to augment collagen regeneration and causes them to shrink over the full treatment course. The rise in temperature forces fat cells to secrete fatty acids (liquid fat), which are disposed via the blood and lymph system. This treatment gives tighter, younger looking skin immediately and long-term skin remodelling, fat and circumference reduction and minimised cellulite appearance.
 
 
 
 It is a non-surgical procedure that uses a controlled device to freeze and destroy fat. Fatty areas are gently pinched between the applicator, which cools the area to a temperature that causes fat cells to crystallise and die. However, some patients with sensitive skin, have reported bruising or frostbite after the procedure. This treatment isn’t intended for weight loss, but for treating problem areas like loves handles, stomach rolls and arm fat. Also, it takes two to three months to notice the results.
 
 
 
 Think of laser lipolysis (which is rarely done as a standalone procedure; it is almost always a combination of regular liposuction plus laser lipolysis) as a way of popping fat cells with a tiny hot poker. The fat cells release an oily substance that is sucked out with standard liposuction instruments. There are definitely incisions and not uncommonly there is pain and bruising, too. Numbing injections are used during the procedure to dull the pain. The results are good, but there is surgical risk. Along with the right technology, it is important to choose a trained doctor for the treatment, rather than getting it done from untrained technicians. 
 
