TRICHY: Trichy may have to take a leaf out of   department’s latest strategy to beat the looming water scarcity. As the metro stares at an unprecedented shortage of water this year amid signs of early summer, Chennai   is exploring the possibility of utilising the water accumulated in quarries. 

 Experts have suggested a similar possibility for Trichy too where the water situation is no different, especially when Cauvery is bone dry and the existing water reserve is expected to last only till this month-end. In Chennai, around 22 quarries have been identified on the outskirts for the purpose. Based on the directions of the agriculture department, Chennai Metro Water engineers have been carrying out inspection and testing the water accumulated in these quarries to ascertain its potability. 
 
 In Trichy, six out of seven quarries are abandoned and have considerable water stored in them. Numerous other quarries across the district have water storage which could be put to use to meet the scarcity. A meeting of officials in December had come to the conclusion that the existing sources would only be sufficient to supply water till February-end. Shortage of rainfall and an indiscriminate extraction of ground water are being blamed for the scarcity.
 
 There are over seven quarries in Trichy alone apart from numerous small and big quarries across the district many of which have been abandoned after extracting rock. These quarries take the form of tanks with the accumulation of rain water over the years. 
 
 H Rajendran, a resident of Solamparai, a quarry near Woraiyur, said there was considerable water in the quarry though it had been polluted by the local people by bathing cattle and defecating near it. Former city corporation councillor   said that a majority of the quarries abandoned after quarrying had considerable water storage. However the water had been polluted following discharge of sewage and effluent from the city. A test would ascertain the possibility of reusing this water in times of crises. Moreover, it would also help prevent further pollution of such artificial water bodies that have come into existence out of exploitation of natural resources. 
 
 Terming it as a good initiative and advocating its replication here, former district forest officer   said that it was rain water which accumulated in a quarry with sand and rock. Hence, it can be purified and used to meet water scarcity. He stressed the need to allow mining of river sand only for genuine purposes as indiscriminate consumption of ground water would lead to its depletion. “Sand mined from Cauvery is not only taken to other districts but even to neighbouring states,” he said. 
 
 Claiming sufficient storage of water as of now, authorities concerned say that alternative sources have been identified to face any scarcity in the upcoming months. “There are very less chances of scarcity,” said corporation commissioner and special officer N Ravichandran adding that private wells have also been identified in case of a crisis. This apart, places had been identified to dig borewells to meet the demand.
 
