The Gorkha Janmukti Marcha (GJM) on Sunday plans to take out rallies against the alleged killing of its supporters in police firing.   leadership claimed on Saturday that four persons were killed in police firing, a charge which the police refuted.

 
 The indefinite shutdown called by GJM entered its 25th day on Sunday. Barring medicine outlets, all shops, schools, colleges remained closed. Internet services also remained suspended.
 
 
  Violence erupted afresh in the Hills on Saturday, as GJM supporters torched a police outpost, a toy train station and clashed with the police at two places in protest against the alleged killings.
 
 
  Police are on high alert and the Army was redeployed in Darjeeling. Security forces patrolled the streets and kept a vigil on entry and exit routes. 
 
 
    chief minister   appealed for peace and said that the state government was ready for talks with the hill parties, but peace has to be restored first.
 
 
  The GJM rejected Mamata Banerjee's offer of talks on Saturday, but said it was willing to hold discussions with the Centre on the issue of  .
 
 
 The hill party also sought the intervention of the   (NHRC) citing the "shocking instances" of human rights violation and "misuse of power" by the West Bengal government and police.
 
 
 CM Mamata Banerjee accused the Centre of "deliberate and total non-cooperation" and alleged that it's refusal to send   personnel, as demanded by the state government, had led to the present situation in Darjeeling.
 
 
 Union home ministry denied the allegations and said 11 companies of paramilitary force personnnel were sent to Darjeeling by the Centre, including one company consisting of women.
 
 
 Meanwhile, Sikkim chief minister   urged Centre to intervene in the Gorkhaland issue and not to treat it merely as a state-specific issue. He said the unrest in Darjeeling Hills has had a direct impact on the life of the people of Sikkim and the state's interest must be safeguarded by the government.
 
 
 
 
 
 
