CHENNAI: It took three nights by rail and road for   staff Ayyappan to retrace the 2,000-kilometre-long journey of a man he had never met, from Hilli — a small town on the India-Bangladesh border — to Chennai. When he saw an Army vehicle emerge from the morning mist at the checkpoint, he quickly muttered a prayer before handing over the coffin that had kept him company through the trip. Mohammad M D Noor was finally home. 

 "I didn’t wait long enough to see his family," said Ayyappan, who works as a driver for the   branch of the Indian  . "If I had, I would have probably known if Noor had foreseen this," said the 32-year-old, who was asked to accompany the body which was transported free of cost through the state’s hearse service. On June 16, Noor, 36, had died at the   due to complications related to tuberculosis. 
 
 Noor’s family is among the 4.4 lakh who had to bear the pain of their kin’s death but, courtesy Tamil Nadu government’s   service, were fortunate enough to give them a dignified cremation or burial — a luxury for many daily-wage earners who come to Chennai with dreams of building a better life. Or, like in Noor’s case, with hopes of finding a panacea. 
 
 Since starting the service in 2011 along with the Indian Red Cross Society, the state has transported bodies within its boundaries and outside — the highest around 97,000 in 2016 alone. Nearly 200 bodies — including of those who died in the 2014 Moulivakkam building collapse — were transported to other states by train or, on rare occasions, by a mortuary van. "Almost all those who were from other states had come to work as daily-wage labourers," said Ruban Santhosh, programme manager, Indian Red Cross Society, Tamil Nadu. Most of these   hailed from the impoverished belts in Odisha, West Bengal,   and Bihar. 
 
 When their mother was mowed down by a bus close to their worksite in Semmenchery last year, teenagers Saritha and Mekala, who belong to the indigenous Kondha tribe in Odisha struggled to fulfil their mother’s last wish: to return home. "She wanted to go back to the hills. In death or in life, we have to return to the soil. We worship it," said Saritha, who, along with her sister, continues to work at a construction site in Semmenchery. Private hearse services asked for `20,000. "Even if both of us work for five years, we cannot earn so much," said Mekala, 19, in broken Hindi mixed with Kui, their tribal language. The sisters had decided to cremate their mother in Chennai — a land alien to them — when a labourer told them about the state’s free hearse service. "It took us half a day to finish all the paperwork, but at least our mother is back to where she belonged," said Mekala. 
 
 Before the hearse service was introduced in 2011, poor families were forced to pay anywhere between `5,000 and `60,000 to get their   home. "In most cases, they ended up cremating them here," said C Srinivasan, former construction worker and general secretary (south Chennai) of the All India Trade Union Congress. He said he had also come across cases where the worker’s closest relative would abandon the body in the mortuary just because they couldn’t afford to bribe. 
 
 State health secretary J Radhakrishnan said many of the families had opted to get their barely living kin discharged just so they could use the free ambulance service to transport them. "They have no choice," he said. The entire project costs the state around `13 crore a year. 
 
 Witnessing grief can sometimes be as painful as experiencing personal loss. Hearse drivers engaged by the Red Cross are constantly counselled to overcome this. "We’ve had drivers dealing with difficult situations like in the 2015 red sanders case (20 woodcutters from TN were killed in an encounter), where the bodies had undergone multiple postmortems. It was traumatic for them to see the families when they opened the coffins," said Ruban. He recalled another instance in 2015 when 10 workers were killed as an effluent tank collapsed in Ranipet. "Some of our volunteers accompanied the bodies all the way to West Bengal, while some were driven to Bihar and Odisha. Although the bodies were embalmed, the drivers said they could smell the chemicals long after," he said. 
 
 According to government estimates, there are around 10 lakh migrant labourers in Tamil Nadu, with at least 80% of them working in Chennai, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur. Most of the labourers from the other states are the sole breadwinners. Back home, the families robbed of their livelihood, is left with no means to pay for the return of their loved one. 
 
 According to a survey by national Campaign Committee for Central Legislation on Construction Labour, around 300 workers die every year at construction sites across Tamil Nadu. Of these, seven northern districts, including Chennai, account for 50 deaths each year. 
 
 Following, Tamil Nadu’s initiative, the governments in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh have started free hearse service too to help the poor struggling to transport their dead. Following two incidents of a tribal carrying his wife’s body on his shoulder for 10km and a woman’s body at a hospital being carried for the last rites, strung from a pole, the Odisha government, too, launched a similar service. Despite this, the state recently witnessed another heart-rending scene of a man carrying the body of his 13-year-old daughter on a stretcher as the hearse did not arrive on time.
 
 Although such narratives haven’t emerged from the white wrap in Tamil Nadu, NGOs working with migrant labourers say the project isn’t without flaws. "Awareness about the service continues to be poor," said Bernard D’Sami, a researcher at the  , an observation vouched for by Srinivasan. "The counters which offer the service at government hospitals are vacant most of the time, forcing patients to wait," said Srinivasan, who recently helped a migrant worker who lost her mother in an accident at a worksite. "We had to wait for close to 10 hours before the hearse van arrived," he said. By then, the family was more relieved than aggrieved that their kin was finally on the road back home.
 
