LUCKNOW/BADAUN: If Muzaffarnagar was the rallying point in the first phase of UP polls, Badaun is set to take center stage in the second round. Six seats of the district are going to the polls on February 15.

 Two issues dominating the campaign in Badaun are the alleged gang-rape and murder of two teenage girls here in 2014 -- though CBI later said that it was a case of suicide -- and the recent disappearance of   student   Ahmed. He belongs to this district. 
 
 While Narendra Modi and Mayawati have already addressed public meetings here attacking Akhilesh Yadav’s government over law and order, the chief minister will speak at five meetings here on Monday.
 
 The shocking death of the teenage girls had earned Akhilesh all-round flak, including international opprobrium. The United Nations had condemned the “brutal” crime, calling for immediate action against the perpetrators and also urging New Delhi to address violence against women across India.
 
 The SP has long claimed that the opposition had smeared Badaun’s image and that of the state, highlighting the case for political gains and was still trying to rake up the issue. This, when the CBI found that the incident was that of suicide.
 
 The CM, who was in Bareilly on Saturday, said the infamous case, “which later turned out to be fake”, couldn’t be the standard to judge UP’s law and order. “We’ve introduced the best police practices, including Dial 100, and will continue doing that once we’re re-elected,” he said.
 
 This area is considered an SP stronghold because of Yadav-Muslim domination. In 2014, even when BJP and allies won 73 of UP’s LS 80 seats, Akhilesh’s cousin Dharmedra Yadav won Badaun. In the 2012 assembly polls, SP won 4 seats here, BSP got two. The BJP is trying hard for a comeback in Badaun.
 
 Another incident finding frequent mention in political debates here is the disappearance of 27-year-old JNU student Najeeb Ahmed, who has remained untraced ever since he was allegedly assaulted by ABVP activists on campus last October 15. After police lodged a case against the missing student’s mother and brother, who along with 150 others, took out a march in the city on February 8, many residents blame the state government for not doing enough to find him.
 
 BSP MLA from Dataganj, Sinod Shakya, said: “We’ve been highlighting that two Badaun families – of the two girls and Najeeb — haven’t got justice. Had the SP government been serious about Najeeb, it would have pressured the Centre or started an SIT probe.” Mahesh Gupta, BJP candidate from Badaun Sadar, said: “SP netas shelter criminals, who threaten to get policemen transferred. We’re confident of getting even Yadav votes this time.” 
 
 Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen’s Asaduddin Owaisi, who was recently in Badaun, urged Muslims “to remember Najeeb and how the SP government didn’t help his family.” He claimed that there’d been a 200% rise in rape cases in UP.
 
 On the other hand, SP MLC and spokesperson Udayveer Singh counters the charges. “The UP government had registered the case as that of murder and sent half a dozen accused to jail. Later the case was handed over to the CBI and the agency said the incident was that of suicide,” he said, adding that the political parties who had highlighted the incident as that of lawlessness should apologise to the people of UP for bringing disrepute to the people of the state.
 
 Earlier, Akhilesh had come down heavily on the opposition parties and even criticized the media for highlighting the incident without waiting for the outcome of the probe into the case. He had also lashed out at the BJP and the BSP chief Mayawati, who had travelled down to Badaun and meet the victim family days after the incident, for politicising the issue. 
 
 
