CHENNAI: With a significant curriculum revamp in focus, the state will soon roll out its first ever   for state board schoolteachers. This means that from next year on teachers will be able to go through detailed lesson plans for every lesson -from trigonometry to magnetism -by using a guide that will help break down each chapter.

 According to senior officials in the school  , this will be made available for all the classes chosen for the first phase of the syllabus shift next year, classes I, VI, IX and XI.
 
 "Along with new textbooks for students, the subject and language teachers will also get detailed guides that will help them adapt to the new syllabus," said a senior official.
 
 Class-wise and subject-wise guides will be made available and will contain several components that will help the state board teachers formulate a proper teaching methodo logy . From concept mapping, lesson planning, class activities to framing tests, they are expected to cover the whole spectrum to help teachers wean off the   method that the state board has become infamous for.
 
 For instance, a guide for a physics textbook will point out which concepts need visu al representations, while which lessons need trivia.
 
 "Starting from the question ' ' for a test, to coming up with project ideas that can help students learn by application, the guide will help to reorient teachers to the concept-based style that we want to achieve," said another senior official.
 
 Once the digital drafts of the textbooks are out in January , teachers from all state board schools in   will sit for a week-long training session, to help them adapt to the new curriculum.
 
 The guides are being written by resource persons and experts to help teachers improve their teaching style and to throw light on how to teach different concepts.
 
 "The teacher reorientation is 80% knowledge and 20% training-based. While it's not possible to train teachers over a short span of time, it is important to teach them how to deliver lecture and make students grasp concepts. This is where the guide will help, so that teachers can prepare themselves before going to class," the official added.
 
