CHENNAI: An autorickshaw driver’s attempt to kidnap a Class III student on   on Wednesday failed after one of the girl’s neighbours raised an alarm. The Mylapore police registered a case and launched a hunt for the accused after the girl’s grandfather lodged a complaint on Friday.

 The girl later told her grandfather and police officers that she was cycling near her house on Muthupandian Avenue, off busy   High Road, when the man began following her. The girl told her parents that the auto driver had been following her over the past week, asking questions about her family, police said.
 
 On Wednesday, investigators found that the driver had parked his vehicle outside a hotel a short distance away and walked towards her.
 
 The man then helped hold her bicycle steady as she rode on and began seeking various details from her, about her family members, about the mode of transport she used to school daily and where she played.
 
 The auto driver then told the girl that her cycle had developed a mechanical fault and assured her that he could rectify it at the shop of a mechanic he knew. The child, however, refused to part with the cycle saying that her grandfather had bought it for her just a few days ago and started to turn towards her home.
 
 The man then told her he had lots of gifts for her in his vehicle, held her hand and began dragging the girl towards the auto, police said, based on the complaint.
 
 A woman, one of the child’s neighbours, came out to empty her garbage in a bin ther and noticed the man pulling the child. Suspecting something was amiss, the woman called to the girl by her name and the man left the the child’s hand.
 
 The woman alerted the girl’s family members. When the child’s grandfather came out of the house, the man sped away in his autorickshaw. A security guard of a nearby complex told police he could recall one half of the vehicle’s registration number.
 
 “We told police the identity given by the child about the kidnapper. The man was wearing a red shirt and grey pant and had a small beard,” said the girl’s grandfather.
 
 An officer of the Mylapore police said they had collected   camera footage from a few shops at the spot. “We hope to nab the culprit soon,” he said.
 
 
