KOZHIKODE: In a proactive  , forest department personnel from the state lent a helping hand to the Karnataka forest authorities to contain a fire, which burnt down hundreds of acres of forests in the   (BTR) and also threatened to spread to the bordering   (WWS).

 Forest personnel from WWS crossed the state border and ventured deep into the forests in the Kalkere and Gundre forest ranges in Karnataka over the last two days and actively took part in the fire-fighting operations.
 
 The timely intervention helped to control the fire, which had advanced right till the border of WWS on Sunday .
 
 WWS warden P Dhanesh Kumar said that dozens of forest personnel from the state were engaged in operations near Golur on the Karnataka side on Monday as well.
 
 “There was no time for any complacency. The fire was raging uncontrolled in Bandipur and fast advancing towards the WWS. We could see the smoke and fire far away and herds of wild animals were rushing to the sanctuary seeking safety . We mobilized all the 168 fire staff to the border and many of us crossed the border and did the fire-fighting in Karnataka,“ said Kumar.
 
 He said the staff ventured over 3km into the Gundre range to fight the fire with just fire beaters and limited supply of water which they carried in small tanks in je eps. Later, three fire tenders from Wayanad district were pressed into service on Sunday . The forest staff also set counter fire to contain the blaze near the border of the Chethalayam range.
 
 The   in BTR which started off on Saturday had claimed the life of a Karnataka forest guard and injured three others.
 
 “The timely support by the Kerala forest department helped a great deal is bringing the fire under control. We were able to douse the fire in the Kalkere range completely on Sunday and hope to bring the fire under control in the Gundre range on Monday . We cannot say how many hectares of forests have been destroyed right now as we are in the process of assessing the damage,“ said T Heeralal, director of Bandipur Tiger Reserve.
 
 The 344-sq km WWS, which is contiguous to the Bandipur Tiger Reserve and   in Karnataka and the Mudumalai Wildlife Sanctuary in Tamil Nadu is facing heightened fire risk this summer due to deficient monsoon.
 
 (Reported by - Rajeev KR)
