NAGPUR: In spite of best efforts by the municipal administration and some political parties, the polling percentage in the city for   (NMC) elections could only reach a poor 53%. The figure would certainly have been higher had a large number of people not been denied a chance to vote due to errors in electoral rolls. Contrasting information provided by different websites and mobile applications only compounded the problem.

 Polling was held peacefully, as no untoward incident took place throughout the day. Counting of votes will be held on February 23 at twelve places and the results are expected to be out by Thursday afternoon.
 
 The provisional figure for NMC polling percentage was 52.25%, which was revised upward to 53%. Not many Nagpurians voted in the first two hours of polling and the average figure till 9.30am was only 8.63%. It increased to 19.95% by 11.30am and 31.22% by 1.30pm. The figure corresponding to 3.30pm was around 43%, which increased to around 53%. 
 
 This is on the lower side as the figure in 2007 civic elections was 56.29%. It was 57.05% in 2014 parliamentary elections. The low voting percentage may upset the calculations of political parties even though all of them claim to benefit from it. BJP union minister Nitin Gadkari had set a target of 70% voting for his party activists.
 
 Goof-ups in electoral rolls definitely cast a shadow on the voting. TOI came across several voters who were unable to exercise their franchise as their names were missing. There were large number of cases where members of the family had their names in electoral rolls of different wards. 
 
 The voter number in electoral rolls was different as provided by websites like www.operationblackdot.com and True Voter mobile application and that shown in NMC’s electoral rolls. Many voters went to the polling booth armed with the serial number in the voter list only to find that it mentioned the name of somebody else. Many polling agents and officials said that as much as 10% to 20% voters in some booths could not vote.
 
 The four-member ward system also caused confusion among some voters. “Some of them had voted for two candidates from the same category. We had to instruct them to vote in a proper manner,” said a presiding officer of a Sadar booth.
 
 Many voters exercised their franchise in favour of different parties this time. “As there were four members from a ward, I didn’t know all of them. So I voted for the candidates I knew rather than for a particular party. After all a corporator should be accessible to me,” said Tapan Suryavanshi. 
 
 Polling was held for all the 151 seats across 38 wards of the civic body. There are around 20 lakh registered voters in the state’s second capital city. After the recent delimitation, number of seats has increased from 145 to 151, while number of wards has reduced from 73 to 38. Of these, 37 prabhags had four members while one ward had three members.
 
 Municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar said that elaborate security arrangements were made for the polls, as over 5000 policemen were deployed. “Out of the total 2783 polling booths in 38 wards, 160 were declared as sensitive booths. The State Election Commissioner had personally visited some of these sensitive booths. Thanks to elaborate security arrangements, the polling ended peacefully,” Hardikar said. The civic chief also visited many sensitive booths in Satranjipura, Gandhibagh and Lakadganj zones.
 
 Presently, BJP has 63 members and has got support of  , Independents and other smaller parties. Their strength in the local body is around 81 members while Congress has 41 members, Nationalist   (NCP) has six members, and   ( ) has 12 members in the outgoing house of total 145 members.
 
