HYDERABAD: In a major breakthrough on Saturday, the commercial taxes department of Telangana uncovered tax evasion worth Rs 400 crore involving edible oil.

 Acting on credible information, commercial tax commissioner V Anil Kumar ordered a decoy operation to catch inter-state oil traders. Six teams of the tax department took part in the raid.
 
 According to sources, the traders had been using `transit permit' to smuggle in edible oil in trucks in the name of crude oil. In this way , they had been importing huge quantities of edible oil from the Chennai and Krishnapatnam ports.While on paper the crude oil goes to Nanded in Maharashtra, the trucks enter Andhra Pradesh and Telangana with the help of `transit permits.' Eventually , the edible oil reaches various parts of both the states, including Hyderabad.
 
 Sources claimed that the trucks enter AP at Tada, where the first transit permit is raised, and eventually make their way to Wadapally on the APTelangana border. At Wadapally checkpost, another transit permit is raised stating that Nanded is the destination, but the edible oil eventually makes it to Hyderabad.
 
 On Saturday , a commercial tax team led by additional commissioner B Revathi Rohini, with the help of police, intercepted seven vehicles at   and Begum Bazaar and discovered that edible oil worth lakhs of rupees was being unloaded at various godowns in Old City.
 
 The sources said that upon seeing the police and tax officials, dozens of oil traders ran away . But officials managed to locate deposits worth Rs 1 crore in the bank accounts of the traders. In all, seven trucks carrying edible oil worth over Rs 1crore were seized.
 
 “Our investigation found out that the tax evasion has been going on for some time and had caused Rs 300-400 crore loss to the exchequer. We are examining the records of traders and will take legal action to ensure that the evaded tax is paid,“ said a senior official in the department.
 
 The sources said that immediately after the raid, tax officials and the police received phone calls from political bigwigs who wanted the case to be hushed up. When contacted, senior commercial tax officials confirmed the raid and said they will soon issue a statement on the whole operation.
 
