PANAJI: The Goa unit of  , which leads the state government, decided on Saturday to deny tickets to assembly speaker   from Mayem and state sports minister Ramesh Tawadkar from Canacona. The decision follows days of suspense over the two important seats.

 Fearing the incumbents’ defeat, the party cleared the names of former Congress candidate Pravin Zantye and former legislator Vijay Pai Khot for Mayem and Canacona, respectively, where a rebellion is taking shape against the party. The BJP parliamentary board will take a final decision in the matter on Sunday, sources said.
 
 Tawadkar, angry with the party’s decision, said he would contest the elections nevertheless. “Whether I will be an Independent candidate or not will be decided in consultation with my supporters,” he told TOI.
 
 Tawadkar said the party had “humiliated” him by not informing him in advance that he would be denied the ticket. “But this has increased the sympathy of people towards me,” he said, adding that he now had the opportunity to be his own boss. In Mayem, egged on by his supporters, Shet said he would contest the polls as a rebel leader.
 
 More than 500 workers gathered at his residence when they heard that he was denied the ticket.
 
 To their demand, Shet promised he would contest the upcoming elections. “The reasons given by (Union minister and former Goa chief minister Manohar) Parrikar for denying me the ticket are false and I have always tried to bring about development in the constituency,” he said.
 
 The drama over candidate -selection ended when BJP’s core state election committee called both Zantye and Khot to the party office in  , and informed them that their names had been cleared for the polls, and that they could inform their supporters about it. “Zantye and Khot would be officially declared BJP’s candidates for the seats on Sunday,” a senior BJP member said. Zantye told reporters that he had been working in Mayem for a long time. “I think Shet will support me,” he said. Khot also said he hoped Tawadkar would support his candidature for Canacona.
 
 Shet and Tawadkar met Union minister  , the election in-charge of the party in Goa, during his visit. Sources said Gadkari advised both not to revolt against the party.
 
 Both have strong local support but were denied tickets on the basis of a survey carried out by the party that indicated that the MLAs would lose their seats.
 
