HYDERABAD: The one-off Test match against Bangladesh was a chance for   to redeem himself. The wicketkeeper was laid low by thigh strain as the victorious Indian caravan moved from Visakhapatnam to Mohali, Mumbai and Chennai, taking England in their stride.

 Parthiv Patel, who took his place in the side, acquitted himself well and though  , chairman of the senior national committee, reiterated his belief in the Bengal player being the No.1 wicketkeeper for India, Saha still had to justify the faith.
 
 "It's a great plus for the players. Because when a player is told on his return from injury hiatus that as and when he recovers, he will be back in the team, the player gets more motivated. That reflects in his performance," Saha said.
 
 The Irani Cup match against Gujarat afforded him a chance to assess his fitness. Saha made the most of it to smash an unbeaten 203 as Rest of India bagged the honours. He duly regained his place in the Indian team.
 
 He started shakily here, though. With skipper   making batting look so easy at the other end, it's difficult not to get carried away, but  's missed stumping when Saha was on four was quickly forgotten as he made the Bangladesh attack toil till India declared after tea on Friday.
 
 "I would term it as luck because he tried, but couldn't hit the stumps. When he (Mushfiqur) got it right the second time, I was in. So possibly, I was destined to get a hundred," Saha said.
 
 The Bangla attack, he said, was better than what he had faced in Irani Cup. "This (Bangladesh) attack was more challenging than the Gujarat attack," he said after his second Test century, an unbeaten 106. "The approach was similar to my second-innings double hundred in the Irani Cup. Initially, I got a chance but after that I carried on with positive intent."
 
 Saha, however, rated his two half-centuries against New Zealand higher than his effort against Bangladesh. "I value the two half-centuries against New Zealand more because the team needed my contribution. We needed partnerships and the quality of their bowling was better. We needed to set a target of 300 and taking all these into account, those two 50s were vital," Saha said.
 
 There was a moment in the match when Kohli looked in danger of missing out on a double hundred, but the Indian skipper reviewed the decision of umpire Joel Wilson with some help from Saha.
 
 "Virat thought that he was out, but I told him that he probably had stretched too far. I thought the impact was outside and since the ball had spun sharply, it might have missed the leg stump. So he took a call and was saved."
 
 Batting with Kohli, Saha said, was enjoyable. "Whenever one bats with Virat, he backs everybody. He always tells us to play our natural game. If you feel you can hit the ball, go for it, is what he tells us. It's not that if you are new to the crease, you have to defend. That's why I tried playing that shot -and survived a stumping chance. But Virat said that it's not a problem. He always gives you confidence, which is a plus. 100 is a special milestone. I have played only 20 Tests."
 
