New Delhi: Months after a   was spotted in  , a whole leopard family has been   in the Asola Wildlife  . According to forest officials, they have been seeing   of leopards on a regular basis for the past 30 days.

 A big cat was spotted almost a month ago but it was difficult to identify the animal then. A week later, more pugmarks surfaced in the sanctuary. “Two of the pugmarks were of fully grown adults and we could see footprints of a suspected cub as its size was smaller than that of other two. The pugmarks also confirmed that they belong to leopards,” said a wildlife and ecological task-force official.
 
 Another member of the family was spotted a few weeks ago. While the adult male and female are suspected to be around five years old, the cub may be between 4 and 6 months.
 
 “Pugmarks are being seen on a regular basis. The leopards have been sighted by the eco-task force. This is a good sign as it shows that the habitat has improved and there is a soild prey base for them. The terrain at Asola and old pits there provide a safe habitat for them. It is also away from any human settlement,” said A K Shukla, chief conservator of forests and chief wildlife warden.
 
 According to Shukla, there is a high possibility that the family has been staying at Asola for a long period of time. “There is enough food for them inside and they also have a cub, so there is no sense of insecurity. The possibility of attacking someone is higher when they are under stress and alone,” said Shukla.
 
 In November last year, a leopard was spotted at the Yamuna Biodiversity Park in north Delhi. However, the animal had to be shifted out of the the city as it may have posed a threat to the locals living nearby. The forest department, however, feels there is no such risk attached to the leopards here as there are no human settlements in the vicinity.
 
 The forest department plans to place camera traps inside Asola from next month onwards to determine the animal species that are currently present at the sanctuary. In addition, pugmarks of the animals will be collected by making soft-sand beds. “The camera traps will not only give us an update on the big cat, but also other animals living in the sanctuary. Extensive data will be collected for all species,” Shukla added.
 
