PUNE: The   police on Friday arrested the   of a college on   for allegedly making   about women students and teachers over the last few months. 

 The 54-year-old head of department (HoD), who was arrested under section 354 (sexual harassment) of the Indian Penal Code, was released on bail on Sunday. The police have also taken prohibitory action against him. Sub inspector   of Swargate police station said that statements of four women students have been registered. Moreover, four other students had verbally tendered their statements against the HoD. Apart from this, two former students of the college have also approached the police with their complaints against the teacher.
 
 The principal of the college lodged a police complaint on Friday following which the police arrested the HoD. The principal, in the complaint, stated that the HoD would harass women students by passing on lewd comments whenever students passed by in the college corridors.
 
 The professor especially targeted women students from other states, the complaint states. Many students did not complain against him as they feared he could harm their performance record, the principal further stated. 
 
 According to the complaint, the professor also passed such comments about women teachers.
 
 When contacted, the college administrator said that the HoD was also the rector of the boys' hostel but it is not known why he would visit the girls' hostel or pass such lewd comments. "The internal inquiry committee has received 16 complaints and more complaints are expected against him," he said.
 
 The administrator added, "Considering these facts and complaints, we suspend him from service with the college as well as the rector of the boys' hostel on Sunday," he said.
 
 The college administration has realised that he had been known to make such comments since 2010 but students did not complain about it. Former students have also turned up to record their complaints with the college administration.
 
 Another college authority said that the concerned professor was a student of the same institute before he joined the faculty many years ago.
 
