CHENNAI: Remember the quintessential auntyji or   in the family whose sole motive was to make matches? Meet Mami, an artificial intelligence(AI-) driven e-assistant which does the exact same thing, powered by data and machine learning. As long standing players and new-age startups battle it out in the dating and matrimony space, some are looking to make a mark by using advanced technologies to help you find the best match.

 The Coimbatore-based SpouseUp, which has built Mami, offers an app that triangulates data from four different social media websites - Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn and Google Plus - to build a user's personality. "Your social media footprint will give Mami an idea as to whether you are a movie buff, a traveller or a music lover. This gives Mami data to find the right match for you. Based on over 40-50 parameters -which include religion, etc -Mami calculates a compatibility score,“ said founder  .
 
 “The beauty of AI is that Mami learns from each match. Say you show interest in a particular profile, Mami asks you why and uses this information to filter and identify better matches,“ said Iyer, whose app has over 45,000 users as of now, a majority of whom are NRIs. The portal also offers GPS-based search so users can find potential mat ches within a few kilometres.
 
 SpouseUp also offers an option for parents or relatives to register as a matchmaker.
 
 Banihal, aneuroscience-based recommendation engine, asks you to answer a few questions and, on the basis of your answers, recommends five matches. “We ask users to answer situation-based questions to assess their nature. For example, if the user would tip 20% at a restaurant, we rank them high on empathy . Over 100 parame ters are considered using neural networks,“ said co-founder Ishdeep Sawhney. Matrimony.com, one of the earliest players in the space, uses an algorithm to weed out unwanted matches that may show up otherwise. Taking historical preferences and data into account, the algorithm automatically weighs some matches more than others. “For instance, an engineer may not have specified he prefers getting married to an engineer, but historically if engineers have shown interest in marrying within their profession, those results show up first,“ said Murugavel Janakiraman, founder and MD, Matrimony .com.
 
 An area that has remain unaddressed is the large number of fake profiles that come on matrimony sites. To add a layer of trust, Banihal has mandated Aadhaar entry , which enables easy verification. In SpouseUp, a trust score is calculated for each profile based on the government id, phone number verification and social media profile.
 
