NEW DELHI: It’s bitterly cold in the capital, but not everyone is cold to the misfortune of others. The “Wall of Kindness” outside Masjid Babul Ilm at   is one such initiative that has caught the eye of many: jackets, shirts and socks left hanging there invite all those in need to benefit from generosity of those who can help in their small way.

 What started as a whim of a 19-year-old youth,  , has grown into a full-fledged altruistic mission. With a view to help the destitute, Murtaza put up clips on the wall for used clothes to be hung there. Other residents and passersby took cue.
 
 “We got this idea during a visit to Iran. Many people are not comfortable about asking for help. We feel happy to see the wall empty in the morning,” Murtaza’s father, Maulwi Qamar Husnain, told TOI. Husnain runs a madrassa for women in the area.
 
 As the mercury plunges further, the homeless look forward to such magnanimous deeds of the “haves”.
 
 While NGOs are trying to reach out to them, many people staying under flyovers or temporary shelters continue to suffer deprivation.
 
 The government’s move to scrap old Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes is nearly two months old now, but there seems to be no end to woes of the homeless. Small traders who cater to the poor say their sales have nearly halved in the last two months as many daily wagers find themselves out of job. “I lost my job as a helper after ‘notebandi’. We have just one blanket each to beat this cold,” says Praveen Kumar, who took shelter with his family under Sarai Kale Khan Flyover 10 days ago.
 
 While shelters do distribute clothes – new and old – the demand far exceeds the supply. Nitesh Kumar, a representative of the  , says many people have volunteered to give away used clothes.
 
 However, a sense of insecurity, coupled with poor hygiene, prompts many to stay in the open rather than going to these shelters. “Our children don’t know how to use toilets and often defecate in the open, creating problems for others,” says Sakina, who spends her nights shivering under a flyover with her three little children.
 
 People living at makeshift tents near Jamia similarly rely on the generosity of residents staying nearby. “People offer us clothes and blankets, otherwise we have no choice but to pick up rags from dumping grounds,” says Anarkali, a slum-dweller. “Sometimes, we spend the night at the nearby shelter, but it’s mostly overcrowded and we have to share space with other men,” says Mahin, another inhabitant.
 
