NEW DELHI: A section of the   flyover’s wall, to all appearances, may be sagging dangerously with a wide gap visible to commuters but both Delhi government’s   (PWD) and Delhi Metro say there is nothing to worry about. This has happened in the carriageway carrying traffic towards Dhaula Kuan on Ring Road.

 Drivers have raised an alarm over the past few days. At the point of the fracture, there is scaffolding supporting the structure and the area has been cordoned off. The wall on the side of the carriageway has also been cordoned off by concrete barricades to keep the traffic away. But the reaction of the two agencies to what is a matter of public safety has been very lukewarm.
 
 According to a senior PWD official, a problem had been noticed a month ago and was resolved. “Delhi Metro is carrying out work in the area, and when they were digging under the flyover, some earth settled. We took up the matter with DMRC and they have carried out the necessary repairs. There are some broken panels which are clearly causing some worry among users and we will have them replaced. There is otherwise no danger to traffic and the flyover is safe for use,” said the official.
 
 Delhi Metro, too, claimed no major repairs are pending here. A DMRC spokesperson told TOI: “A portion of the ramp of the flyover on Ring Road is being monitored as DMRC has made a subway under the flyover through box pushing technology.” The spokesperson stressed the fact that it was only “monitoring” the structure. “The subway has been built to connect an entry structure with the under-construction Bhikaji Cama Place metro station of Phase III and the work was wrapped up on January 19 this year,” said the spokesperson. 
 
 Delhi Metro says that “some settlement” is expected in such activities. “DMRC is in close coordination with PWD’s consultant who had designed the flyover. The flyover is completely safe for traffic movement. It’s just the wall and we will finally undertake repairs,” said the spokesperson. But there is no urgency and no deadline.
 
