NEW DELHI: Perhaps solving the   mess in Delhi has to begin with the basic: know what constitutes legal parking space. It is only if, as the   ( ) has time and again recommended, parking space is “demarcated” that illegal parking can be identified and penalised. With these in mind, lieutenant governor Anil Baijal asked the agencies concerned on Wednesday to focus on EPCA’s suggestions meant to reduce the demand for parking space while encouraging use of public transport.

 Primary among the suggestions made in 2012 is for municipal corporations to publicise the list of legal parking sites and the contractors who operate them. EPCA had said that parking lot contracts should include on-ground demarcation, signage and information systems and a metering system for charges. EPCA also recommended a steeper penalty for illegal parking than the Rs 100 currently stipulated under the Motor Vehicles Act. 
 
 As for penalties for wrong parking, the   noted in a recent report on Delhi’s parking policy, “This system is sub-optimal and is not enforced stringently.” People whose cars are towed away for parking illegally easily get back their vehicle after paying the fine and a Rs 500 towing charge.
 
 EPCA has recommended that private vehicles, which occupy more than 85% of parking space in Delhi, should pay the unsubsidised ‘true cost’ for parking. This means that in the case of multilevel facilities, the cost of land, technology and infrastructure that have gone into their making must reflect in the parking fee. EPCA also advised strict enforcement of norms for residential parking based on hours of use and proxy real estate cost (23 sq metres for each car in open parking and 28 sq metres in a ground-floor parking, according to building regulations). EPCA suggested priority parking for para-transport and feeder systems, like e-rickshaws, and zero tolerance for parking on pedestrian walkways.
 
 In a meeting between the then   and EPCA in 2012, it was decided that all agencies associated with the issue, such as the civic bodies and Delhi Metro, should have common parking rates with higher charges for longer parking periods.
 
 The implementation of the grade response action plan to counter pollution crises had made it imperative for Delhi government to roll out the parking policy quickly. The pollution response plan entails parking fee being hiked three- to fourfold every time Delhi’s air quality is “very poor”. For this intervention to be operationalised, it is necessary to demarcate legal parking areas and identify illegal parking for penal actions.
 
 Lack of monitoring has led to misuse of parking space, thereby encouraging illegal parking. There are 263 surface parking sites under the jurisdiction of the three municipal corporations. Though these bodies have demarcated the areas meant for parking, contractors extend their boundaries. According to people in the know, the civic bodies do not have adequate manpower to curb illegal parking, especially on colony roads and pavements. Many contractors owe the civic bodies crores of rupees, but nothing has been done to recover the dues.
 
 
