Madurai: As many as 1,800 artefacts, of which about 1,500 were glass beads, have been retrieved in the third phase of the   excavation, which comes to an end on September 30, said the superintending archaeologist of Archeological Survey of India, P S Sriraman.

 He told mediapersons at the excavation site on Sunday that they had not found any building that was a continuation of those discovered earlier. They had found a partial portion of a crooked brick structure, three wells and a wall made of large bricks this season. As rains had hampered their work in the past month, they had not been able to excavate the bottom of most of the trenches, though they managed to reach the clayey soil in some, he said. As the permitted period of excavation was short, he said that they could go only to the extent of 400 square metres.
 
 Of the 1,800 articles found in the recent excavation, 1,500 were glass beads and the remaining were beads made of marble, jade and earthenware. Apart from that the broken portion of a comb made of ivory, dices and game coins, earrings, sharpened points of copper and bone as well as chisels made of iron were also among the findings. They had also found worn-out copper coins of circular and square shape, five gold artefacts and some earthenware ornaments.
 
 He said that till date, 14 pieces of pottery with brahmi inscriptions had been found, with only one piece bearing the full name ‘Olian’ on it, while the others had partial letters of a word. One piece had twelve letters on it. Some findings from this excavation may also be sent for carbon dating. The earlier dating had designated the age of this site — possibly a habitation spread over 50 to 60 acres or more — to 2,200 years from today, he said.
 
 Sriraman said that they would have sought permission to carry out the next phase of excavation and the state archaeological department had also sought the same. The matter would be decided by the committee constituted for the purpose. The setting up of a museum was the last phase of an excavation and the court’s direction was awaited on this.
 
 Meanwhile, Dravida Eyaka Tamilar Peravai general secretary Suba Veerapandian, who visited Keezhadi on Saturday, said that the Union government was making deliberate efforts to conceal the truth about Keezhadi and that the excavation should not be stopped. ``This is something that should be included in the history text books in Tamil Nadu for its importance,’’ he said. Actor Mansoor Ali Khan who also visited the spot said that he would resort to indefinite fast at the site if former superintending archaeologist of the site, Amarnath Ramakrishna, was not reinstated to carry out the excavation.
 
 
