CHENNAI: Every Margazhi, before the season's concerts begin, sabhas do not forget to have one mandatory performance titled ' '. Under this,   accompanied by thavil as percussion are held. But the instruments are largely forgotten after that.

 Separate festivals are organised for nadaswaram including by   but they are often the exception. Nadaswaram aficionados and artists see a variety of reasons for this treatment.
 
 Nadaswaram players are mostly from Thanjavur and surrounding areas. Having them perform in Chennai means bearing their travelling and boarding expenses along with their payments. “Though there are more than 100 nadaswaram players in the state, the expense stops the sabhas from inviting them," says Vazhuvoor Ravi, secretary of Sri Ragam Fine Arts, a cultural body which holds annual nadaswaram concerts on nadaswaram vidwan TN Rajaratnam Pillai's remembrance day on December 12. 
 
 Also, Nadaswaram and thavil are essentially 'temple instruments' meant to be played in open spaces, and sabhas may not be the ideal locations for them.
 
 Thavil player Mannargudi Vasudevan says it is possible to play these instruments in confined spaces. “Thavil does not have a sruti and may sound out of place in a sabha. But if played according ly it would not be a problem. I ac companied violinists Lalgudi G J R Krishnan and Lalgudi Vi jayalakshmi on the percussion this year,“ he says.
 
 Nadaswaram exponent Sembanarkovil SRGS Mohan Doss says it all depends on how well you adapt to various locations. “When we play in a temple for Swami Purappadu, we can play the nadaswaram in full throttle. But in a sabha, before a mike one has to play it a bit softly, or else it might sound jarring to the audience,“ he says.
 
 Though nadaswaram and thavil are temple instruments, there is a worrying trend in which temples are doing without the instruments.
 
 “Temples under the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment department prefer electronic drums and cymbals,“ says nadaswaram artist Injikudi Subramanian.
 
 While earlier, nadaswaram and thavil were seen as instruments played only by the isai vellalar community , now people from other communities, especially dalits, are taking to the instrument, says Subramanian. “This is a positive trend,“ Subramanian says, adding that this would help in the revival of the instrument.
 
 Unlike other musical instruments, nadaswaram and thavil are also a source of livelihood. Players earn by playing for marriages and other functions. That might also be a reason for people from other communities showing interest in the instruments, says Subramanian.
 
