NOIDA: Fate of six families hangs in balance, a day after   sealed a five-floor building in Sector 80 on Thursday. The families, who continue to live in the  , claim they have been caught unaware as the authority sealed the building without any prior notice.

 In a notice issued to  , the Authority warned the developer on Thursday that the building would be razed to ground within seven days and the developer would be penalised, if the ‘illegal construction’ is not removed. Clarifying the move, the authority officials said the building has been constructed on a notified land.
 
 The five floors of the building have 106 flats and 26 shops on the ground floor, while only six units are occupied, according to the authority officials. B.K Singh, project engineer, Work Circle-7, Noida Authority, who led the team for sealing the premises on Thursday said the homebuyers would be suggested to seek a judicial reprieve. 
 
 Clueless residents, however, are exasperated following the sealing as uncertainty prevails. Speaking to TOI, one of the residents, Bimal Kaushal, an IT professional, said, “The sealing drive was a surprise move. There was no notice, no prior warning.”
 
 Another resident, Gaurav Singh, asked, “More than 20 homebuyers have already registered their units, while another 20 are lined up for registry. If the building is illegal, why was there no warning notice on Noida Authority’s website or outside the registry office?”
 
 With water and power supply snapped, the families are facing inconvenience. “The Authority officials have sealed the main gate of the building and they have also cut off water and power supply. To go out, we have to scale a six-feet wall. How would women, children and senior citizens cope up in such situation?” asked a resident, Hardeep Singh.
 
 Anup, a flat occupant, further mentioned the residents are planning to take a legal route. “We plan to move the court to get a stay order so that we can buy some time to find a new home,” said Kaushal. “If the building is razed to the ground, who is going to compensate us for the hard-earned money we have invested. Is someone listening? Can someone help us?” he asked helplessly.
 
 Meanwhile, Rakesh Jaiswal, spokesperson for Nimi Homes, on Friday claimed the building has been constructed legally on gram panchayat land. “We started construction in 2015 after purchasing the land from farmers and getting it registered,” he said.
 
 “We have not violated any norms. Was the Noida Authority sleeping for two years? Why did they wait for us to sell all our units and they have now taken action when there are families residing in the building,” he asked. “Authority officials have callously disconnected the water and electricity connections, leaving the families in a helpless state, without any prior notice about the sealing,” Jaiswal said.
 
 However, Noida Authority CEO, Deepak Agarwal said, “The building has been constructed illegally. We did not give permissions for the construction. Besides, we have repeatedly told the homebuyers to research well before they invest their hard earned money. They would have to seek judicial reprieve. I can however, look into the immediate problems being faced by the residents and try to look for possible solutions.” 
 
