AHMEDABAD: The director of primary education in a directive has asked the district education officers and district primary education officers to verify the residential address every student admitted under the   quota. 

 The move to verify the financial status for every RTE admission granted was taken after the department realized that several admissions had been secured by forging documents or by submitting wrong documents and even fake caste certificates. The director of primary education asked the DPEOs and DEOs to personally visit the homes of each such student and verify if the parents lived in a rented premise or had their own house, and the type of house, whether it was slum, flat or row-house. The officer should also verify if the parents have an AC, LED TV, washing machine or others white goods. The officers have also been told to verify what the family’s electricity bill and telephone bills were among other things. 
 
 M I Joshi, the director of primary education, said, “We have instructed officials to file police complaints if any irregularities are noted.”
 
 At Anand Niketan (Satellite), as many as 9 applications were received. After the due process seven students were given admission under RTE. The parents of two kids did not approach the school, so their admission was ruled out. At St Kabir Drive-In, four applications were received and after verifying documents all four students have been given admission. Interestingly, the directive has led to several parents rushing to the DPEO or the DEO to cancel the admission of their wards. In one incident, a parent rushed to the office of the director to cancel his admission as the parent had taken admission in the   category. He said his ward was in the general category and was wrongly admitted as an OBC student. DPEO, Ahmedabad, Mahesh Mehta, said around 10 parents who were admitted to schools of Ahmedabad district panchayat have cancelled their admission. DEO Ahmedabad, Navnit Mehta, said they have admitted around 950 students in Ahmedabad and are expecting that some 500 admissions will be bogus. 
 
