GORAKHPUR: After Bundelkhand, BSP chief   on Sunday raised demand for a separate  . Addressing a rally in  , the former CM reiterated that her government would step up efforts to divide UP into four smaller states as proposed in her previous tenure.

 “For development of underdeveloped districts, creation of separate Purvanchal state is required,“ Mayawati told a gathering in Champa Devi Park in Gorakhpur. “Teach Congress, BJP and SP a lesson as they have been opposing the creation of Purvanchal state,“ she said.
 
 This is the second time after in her rally in Hamirpur (Bundelkhand) that Mayawati has made a promise of getting the state divided. The ruling Samajwadi Party has been categorically opposing the proposal. Mayawati had got a legislation moved in UP assembly in 2011 for the division of the state before sending it to the Centre. The proposal has since been pending.
 
 In her 30-minute speech, Mayawati repeatedly hit out at the BJP accusing it of coming up with anti-public policies like demonetisation. She slammed the saffron party for the rise in incidents of atrocities on Dalits and minorities as well.
 
 Calling PM Narendra Modi and BJP national President Amit Shah as `guru' and `chela' (master and disciple), Mayawati said that the duo destroyed the country through their anti-public policies and now with the help SP , want to destroy UP .
 
 “People of UP will send the adopted son (Narendra Modi) back to Gujarat and bless their very own daughter (Mayawati) again,“ Mayawati said.Cautioning Dalits, the BSP supremo said BJP followed an RSS's agenda to end reserva tion. “Their task will get easier if BJP wins in UP ,“ she said.
 
 Reaching out to minorities, Mayawati said that her party was against BJP's stand to intervene on issues of triple talaq and the personal laws of Muslims. “Under present BJP government Muslim are are feeling insecure,“ she said, adding that the communal forces were targeting Muslims in the name of love-jihad, cow and nationalism. “BJP has created a situation where Muslims are looked upon as terrorists,“ Mayawati said. She said that if her party comes in power then it will review the cases of innocent people who were jailed.
 
 Terming Modi a `cheater' who misled people on the issue of discrimination between Hindi and Muslim in power distribution and water supply during their respective festivals, Mayawati said that during her previous regime people from both the community were provided power and water equitably .
 
 Mayawati also attacked Amit Shah for his remarks about rivers of milks and curd flowing in UP if BJP voted to power, “Why such milk and curd rivers did not flow out in BJP' six-year of government in UP and also in BJP-ruled states like MP , Maharashtra and Haryana,“ she said.
 
 “All the SP goons, mafia and corrupt people will be send to jail and special direction will be issued to lodge FIR of victims whose complaints were not entertained,“ Mayawati said.
 
