MUMBAI:   feels he has unfinished business with   and this is one of the main reasons why the Costa Rican has decided to continue as coach for the second season running.

 Last season Mumbai topped the league with 23 points from 14 games but lost to   in the two-legged semi-final. "We achieved a very high performance level, giving us the top position in the league. ISL3 was played at much higher competitive level in comparison to the first two seasons. For us to be the No. 1 team in the league was really good and then to achieve the objective of being in the top four of the competition was fantastic," says Guimares.
 
 That's why he accepted the offer to coach Mumbai again. "I appreciate an open and frank relationship with the management. My chemistry with the local staff and my staff was fantastic. Last season was one of the best experience of my career in getting everybody together. When you have all these elements in favour, why not do another year, I felt. Also there was this feeling that we missed out last year. We came very close to attaining our ultimate objective, that of winning the  . So I am back," said Guimaraes explaining his reason for agreeing to become coach for the second year.
 
 The former coach of the Costa Rican national side said he was in constant touch with the developments in India regarding the change in league structure. "A five month league is always a good idea, because coaches and teams have time to practice, prepare and rest between games. With more time, we can train players to a higher level of intensity, we can also introduce variety into our play. This year's ISL will appear more like a league and it will help in the development of the game in India."
 
 He also feels a longer league gives the coaches and players more credibility. "Last year we did not have the time to introduce anything different. This year, because of the longer duration of the league, we can try and play a few notches higher than what we have done in terms of result."
 
 Playing five foreigners, which is being introduced this season, will not be an alien concept for Guimares. "My team was already playing five foreigners in the league. That's why we have retained   in the goal. When we have an Indian goalkeeper, we can play five foreigners in the outfield, provided he does not get injured," he said.
 
 He said he has come prepared for the draft on Sunday. "I am aware of what we need and aware of what other teams will be looking for. But you also need to be lucky in a draft," he says.
 
