CHANDIGARH: To revive the steel industry of  , the state government has approached the Centre for setting up the first automobile shredding plant of north India there.A proposal has been sent and Punjab government is anticipating a nod. Sources in the industries department said a state-of-the-art automobile shredding plants were an emerging technology worldwide to get rid of used vehicles.

 “The plant can completely change the economics of Gobindgarh area," said an official.The steel cluster in Mandi Gobindgarh has 500 units and most of the raw material is imported as scrap. The car shredding plant's output can feed the entire cluster and get business for the industrial units operating there.
 
 “The state government is looking at infusing new life into the key industrial units in the state and the industries department plans to make interventions at different levels. There are also plans to hire consul tants to help plan better and deal with competition from other states,“ added the official.
 
 Punjab has investment in small industry estimated to be around 20% of the total industrial development and the share in employment is about 82%. At the same time, investment in medium and large industry is around 80% while its share in employment generation is just 18% in Punjab.
 
 “This implies that promotion and strengthening of the small-scale industrial sector is of strategic importance from the viewpoint of employment," said economist   of the Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development ( ).
 
 Over 1,500 industrial units have closed down during the last 10-12 years. Between 2007 and 2013, 18,770 industrial units in Punjab were closed down.
 
 Apart from feeding steel industry , with stricter vehicular emission rules on cards, car companies are also looking at an opportunity to recycle older cars and trucks. Mahindra intends to set up a network of automobile shredding plants as the Centre is considering introducing a policy to scrap old vehicles, like the cash-for-clunkers programme, something that the US tried during the global economic recession to boost auto sales.
 
 `8K tonnes of scrap needed daily'
 
 The industrial cluster in Mandi Gobindgarh needs around 8k tonnes of scrap daily, which is imported. Vinod Vashisht, president of  , said of the total 450 units, there are about 70 that import scrap and it has to be brought all the way from the Mumbai port.“However, as people continue to use their vehicles even after these have outlived their utility.There is a need for better enforcement and change of public perception,“ he said.
 
