CHENNAI: The I-T department has stumbled upon a treasure trove of gold and diamonds on the second day of its raid on a highways contractor in Chennai. While the sleuths seized Rs 41 lakh cash, 22 kg gold and several property documents on Thursday, another 30kg gold and 700 carat diamonds were seized from the contractor's premises in the city on Friday. The value of the seized gold ornaments and diamonds is worth more than Rs 20 crore, said I-T officials.

 This is the second highest seizure of valuables by the I-T in Chennai after the raids on sand mining baron Sekhar Reddy in December last year.The searches on the assets of Gurumurthy Engineering Enterprises, GG Infrastructures and   started after the I-T investigation wing received complaints about G Thiagarajan, a highways contractor and proprietor of Thiagarajan Enterprises, purchasing an 8.9 grounds property owned by former IG F V Arul's family in Egmore for a meagre Rs 10 crore on record. I-T officials have seized documents relating to payment of several crore rupees of unaccounted cash by Thiagarajan to the seller. The guideline value of the property is Rs 24.9 crore and the market value is Rs 50 crore.   is owned by Thiagarajan's father  , a retired chief engineer of PWD. Gurumurthy's wife G Gowri is the owner of GG Infrastructures.
 
 The manner in which the Egmore property was registered raises doubts. The property documents were submitted for registration at Periamet sub-registrar office in Chennai well after the office hours on July 5. It was inspected by registration department officials on July 6 and the property documents were released by the subregistrar to the buyer on July 7. No sub-registrar in the city works with such alacrity. Normally, a sub-registrar inspects a registered property after a week of registration and he releases the documents to the buyer only after two weeks, said realtors.
 
 The I-T sleuths also searched the premises of F V Arul's son Michael Arul, who had sold the property to Thiagarajan. The property was already in dispute when the sale happened. A case is going on in the high court between Michael and his son David regarding the ownership rights of the said property. The next hearing of the case is slated for Tuesday.
 
 “As we started checking more and more areas in the two buildings situated within a compound in Ashok Nagar, we stumbled upon gold jewellery embedded with diamonds. So far, we have seized more than 51kg gold orna ments and 700 carat diamonds,“ a senior I-T official told TOI.
 
 The I-T officials are continuing the searches. “There were 100 pieces of similar looking gold jewellery embedded with diamonds.There are 100 pieces of similar looking rings, bracelets and other jewellery in the vault,“ said the official.
 
 It is a new experience for the officials to find multiple pieces of jewellery in the same design, said the official.“While looking at the three companies' accounts, we found that about 10% of the cost of every project they did was not accounted for in their books. We are trying to figure out who this money -Rs 25 crore -was paid to,“ said the official.
 
 “The three companies were formed after Gurumurthy's retirement from service in 1987,“ a senior I-T official told TOI. The companies' offices as well as the residences of the proprietors are situated within the same compound.
 
