VJ Anusha, who is quite active on social media, shared an Instagram story on Tuesday (May 9) where she, along with  , could be seen making fun of TV actor   and her friend  .
 
 It all began with Bigg Boss contestant and TV actress  's Instagram story which had her friends Gurneet and Rahul taking a stroll and talking about food. Anushka then shared a video on her account, where she and Gaelyn made fun of Gurneet and Rahul's accent, specially the way they said "pancakes". 
  
 Finding it hilarious, Anusha posted it publicly, only to receive backlash from Kishwer Merchantt. The actress got offended with this act of Anusha and Gaelyn's and posted this message for them: 
 
  
  
 
  
 Along with it, she wrote: It's sad when a 35yr old doesn't knw how to behave @vjanusha @vjgaelyn .. grow up !!! And fyi the guy in the video is @rahullsharma and the girl is @gur4neet .. now u knw them !!!
  
 Within minutes, all the followers and fans started to write about this and pointed out how Anusha's boyfriend, Karan Kundrra, too has an accent problem. Anusha is an Australian National and hence, her accent is different from the Indian.
 
  
  
 Kishwer's husband Suyyash Rai, too, posted the same message and wrote: People consider u guys their role models / idols ... it doesnt suit u guys @vjanusha @vjgaelyn. Disappointed seriously...U guys r probably trippin on something and enjoying but unfortunately for you they are my frns. U shudnt have put this on ur socail networking websites specially wen there millions of people looking up2 u...and unfortunately they are your FANS :). U guys probably well educated and have probably studied and stayed abroad all ur lives its juss that my frns r tooo desi to have that accent...n unfortunately that guy is from punjab too just like @kkundrra. AND je lodh payi metho vadda desi labna v nai...GROW UP.
  
 In a while, Anusha replied to Kishwer in the comments section of her post. In one of the comments, she said, "Relax, we weren't making fun of anyone, we wouldn't do that...The video made us laugh...Wasn't meant to offend anyone. In another, she wrote: And we are both Indians! So please it was never about the accent, the video was funny, that's it! @kishwersmerchantt
  
  
  
  
 But then Kishwer too fought back and demanded an explanation for the act by telling her how she considers imitating someone's accent and laughing funny.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
