Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) apathy towards cleaning the   for three years now, has drawn the   of Kondhwa  .

 The residents, mostly from Bhimnagar and Pokalemala, have demanded a clean-up of the nullah before monsoon to avoid water logging in their homes.
 
 The Bhairobanala flows from near a hill in Yevalewadi and passes through various parts of the city and merges with the Mula-Mutha river in Koregaon Park.
 
 Reshma Bhalshankar, a Bhimnagar resident, said, “Mosquitoes from the nullah have made our life miserable. Also, the foul smell emanating from the garbage dumped in the nullah has impacted the health of people.”
 
 Another resident Chaya Borade said, “There are no garbage bins in Bhimnagar. People passing via   Road dump waste into the nullah. The NGO appointed by the PMC for collecting garbage has stopped coming. We have filed complaints with the PMC ward office to resolve the problem, but in vain.”
 
 Another resident Mithun Jagdane said, “A small bridge connects Kondhwa Road to Bhimnagar. It has become difficult for the residents to cross the bridge due to the garbage in the nullah and on its banks.”
 
 Vinodini Pawar from Pokalemala said, “In my younger days, I used to see clean water flowing in the nullah. People used the water to clean clothes and for household chores. With rapid urbanisation, all drainage lines have been connected to the nullah, polluting it completely. We have constructed a huge compound wall to protect my house from the stench emanating from the nullah.”
 
 Pushpa Nikam, a vegetable vendor from PMC’s Shantai market, said, “The business in the market has been impacted and one of the reasons is the garbage is dumped in the nullah. We want the civic body to take stringent measures to deter people from throwing garbage.” 
 
 PMC corporator Nanda Lonkar said, “The standing committee had approved tenders of Rs 98 crores for developing the infrastructure of nullahs. We have requested the civic body to ensure that the nullah here is cleaned. However, it has not been cleaned properly for more than 25 years. This is has led to the piling up of complaints from the residents in this regard.” 
 
 “The width of the nullah has reduced at many places due to the dumping of construction materials and waste. There are complaints of water logging at housing societies and slums,” she added.
 
 PMC Wanowrie-Kondhwa ward officer Madhav Deshpande refuted the allegations of the residents. He said the nullah is cleaned before monsoon every year.
 
 “We have invited tenders from private parties for cleaning the nullah, drainage lines and chambers in Wanowrie and Kondhwa. The tenders will be opened on May 5. We have not received any complaints from the residents that the nullah is in a state of neglect,” he added.
 
 
