KOLHAPUR: Close watch over the movement of   through the   on the city has   the   in a year. 

 Compared to 2015, the number of chain snatching cases registered with Kolhapur police in 2016 have dropped by 45%. As many as 161 cases were registered in 2015 and the number dipped to 90 in 2016. 
 
 Police officers said the main reason for the significant drop in chain snatching incidents was the CCTV cover over the city. The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) installed 165   at 65 places in 2016.
 
 Bharatkumar Rane, deputy superintendent of police, Kolhapur city said, the CCTVs installed at various chowks in the city have played major role in reducing crime, including chain snatching. The suspects involved in chain snatching have realised that it becomes difficult for them to hide from the investigating agencies once they are captured in the CCTV camera. 
 
 “With the help of CCTV cameras, we analysed the pattern of the movements of the chain snatchers in the city. Based on this pattern, we launched nakabandi operations at specific spots, which has helped us to reduce the menace to half compared to the previous year,” he said.
 
 Other measures such as keeping a watch on the movement of the criminals on police record and ensuring that they do not commit similar crimes have also helped. This helped the police prevent a repeat of crimes. 
 
 Previously, chain snatching cases were registered under IPC 379 (theft). Now a days, most of the cases are registered under robbery. Under section 379 (theft), the offender is likely to be punished with imprisonment of up to three years with a fine and under section 392 (robbery), the offender may get rigorous imprisonment which may extend to 10 years with fine.
 
 “We are doing our best to reduce the menace of chain snatching but the incidents will reduce further if people also take some precautions, especially senior citizens. The chain snatchers have an easy modus operandi. They eye high gain in a short interval of time,” Rane said. 
 
 People should ensure that they emphasise on minimum use of gold jewellery when they step out of the house. Senior citizens should ensure that they do not go for walks alone on roads when there is no traffic. “The chain snatchers commit crime when they find victims passing on the roads that are not crowded. If these things are avoided, the number of chain snatching will further dip down,” Rane said.
 
 Activists said that the police should ensure that the CCTV cameras are in good condition and remain operational. “Though the police claim that the number of chain snatching has reduced, the situation has barely improved. Women are still scared to step out of their homes wearing jewellery,” social activist Dilip Powar.
 
 Powar added that the incidents of other types of crimes are increasing day by day in parts of the district. The police should increase patrolling in the district as well. The police also should increase patrolling at such lonely roads that are not yet covered under CCTV cameras to nab the culprits, he said.
 
