KOLKATA: Forced to the sidelines and fatigued by a long-drawn legal battle,   was back to his maverick self on Friday when he made a phone call to   and  . It's not clear whether the 3.06-minute phone call had his party's backing, but many feel it's an attempt to mend bridges with a “distant“  . By the end of the day, however, Madan-da, as he is lovingly called, had won many hearts.

 To Madan's credit, he didn't let his public posturing slip into mere theatrics on Friday. For example, while talking to Dasgupta, at one point he mentioned that   (CEO & VP, East, Apollo Hospital Group) must be listening to their conversation. (This, however, was not the case.Because, Dr Basu is in New Zealand at the moment.) But a public confirmation from Dasgupta that Apollo would refund the entire Rs 7.23 lakh bill came as the much-needed shot in his arm.
 
 Emboldened by the state's order of an inquiry into the incident (read by many as the party's endorsement of his actions), Madan's role reminded many doctors and the on-duty police officers of his heyday. Minutes within his telephonic exchange with Dasgupta, Madan was shooting instructions to an SSKM assistant superintendent to admit a patient from Tripura who was turned back due to lack of bed.
 
 Apollo battle won, the real war for Madan lies at SSKM, many feel. Elected the patients' welfare committee (Rogi Kalyan Samiti) chairperson in 2011, Madan was replaced by Firhad Hakim in December 2014 and thereafter by Aroop Biswas last year. SSKM has always had a heavyweight ruling party leader at the committee helm to ease “coordination“ with the hospital administration. For the past four months, Madan ­ and his aides ­ have been regular at SSKM desperate to regain their toehold. According to sources, he was even toying with the idea to form a committee that will run parallel to patients' welfare committee. Madan said, “I don't care for any committee.
 
 Aroop is doing a good job. But I also get solace in extending cooperation to helpless families requiring urgent medical intervention at SSKM. I will continue to do that work, come what may,“ Mitra said. Aroop Biswas was tightlipped.
 
 Party insiders claim Madan on Friday was “directed“ to rush to SSKM by none other than Abhishek Banerjee, the party's Diamond Harbour MP. It was at Banerjee's office where the victim's kin ­ and friends ­ had turned up seeking help.This, however, couldn't be confirmed. To Madan's credit, he made the most of it. On whether it signaled the return of Madan Mitra to the political centerstage, Madan said, “I am a loyal footsoldier of the party. I will work as instructed.“
 
