JAIPUR: Acting on specific intelligence input provided by the Rajasthan   ( ), the   police and   (DRI) nabbed an alleged Islamic State supporter with illegal gold biscuits from Andhra-Tamil Nadu border early Sunday morning.

 According to ATS SP Vikas Kumar, the accused identified as  , alias Travel Haq, was in contact with another IS operative Jameel Ahmed, who was arrested by the ATS from Sikar in November.
 
 “The interrogation with Jameel Ahmed and technical analysis of his phones fetched us the name of another IS operative, Travel Haq. But we didn’t know his real name or occupation,” Kumar said.
 
 The teams of ATS began zeroing in on ‘Travel Haq’ and traced Muhammad Iqbal, a resident of Mylapore in Chennai. Sleuths of ATS knew the movements of Iqbal and sent a team to Chennai. 
 
 “He was coming back to Chennai via Andhra Pradesh with gold which he had smuggled from Myanmar. We informed our sister agencies in Tamil Nadu and they apprehended Iqbal with illegal gold. The DRI registered a case against him and arrested him,” Kumar said.
 
 The ATS officials said they had first found the alleged links between Iqbal and IS when Jameel told interrogators that he had received funds form one ‘Travel Haq’ who was located in South India. 
 
 “Iqbal had contacted IS commanders through social networking sites like Kick. The IS told him to get in touch with Jameel Ahmed who was already providing funds to IS in Iraq and Syria through his hawala network in Lebnon and Dubai,” an ATS official said.
 
 Jameel Ahmed and Muhammad Iqbal were in touch with each other for a very long time. 
 
 Kumar told TOI that ATS would bring Iqbal to Jaipur on production warrant to interrogate him about his alleged links with the banned outfit IS. 
 
 “Initial probe suggests he provided money to IS through Jameel Ahmed. We are trying to find out if he also asked other people to donate money to IS,” an ATS official said, adding that Iqbal has been involved in several cases of money laundering and gold smuggling.
 
 “His smuggling network was spread across several countries like Bangladesh and Myanmar,” the official said. 
 
