The Nayanthara-starrer gets embroiled in plagiarism controversy as story writer ‘Satellite’   claims that the film’s plot belongs to him, while Doss, the director of the film, denies it. After a brief hiatus, plagiarism storm has hit   again. This time, it is Nayanthara’s upcoming film  , directed by   Ramasamy, which has been mired in copyright charges. Script writer Sridhar (who is popularly known as Satellite Sridhar) has filed a complaint against the makers of the movie with the Producer’s Council Guild and with the Writer’s Union alleging that Dora’s story is actually his script. 

 Ask Sridhar on what basis he claims that Doss’s story is his script, without even wathcing the film, and he explains, “I had shot a few portions of my film Alibabavum Arputha Carum in 2013. The project did not move further due to financial issues. The film’s story revolved around a possessed car and a lady. When I saw the teaser of Dora, which was billed as a horror film like mine, I realised that it had striking similarities with my story. I had even registered it in the writer’s union. Later, I heard the story through my industry sources and I came to knew that they have actually stolen my story. As the story revolves around a car, I had set up a car in a designed car shed. I had my office in Vadapalani back then. Director Sarkunam, under whom Doss was working as an assistant, was staying in the same apartment. So, there are chances that the story could have leaked in that way. All said and done, It is my hard work — I cannot let somebody direct my story without giving any credit to me.”
 
 Sridhar adds that as the makers of Dora are going ahead with the release of their film, this will hamper the prospects of his film which went on floors a few of years ago. Hence, he demands that the team of Dora should bear the financial expenses of Alibabavum Arputha Carum as the former are not even giving a credit.
 
 
 Meanwhile, Doss Ramasamy rubbishes Sridhar’s claims, saying that the latter cannot accuse him of stealing the story before watching the film. He says, “How can he claim that the story is his work without watching the movie? He may have doubts about the similarity in the story. But that doesn’t mean that he can come up with an allegation without any valid proof. It is true that Dora’s story also revolves around a car, but it is not his story. There are so many films in Hollywood and other industries that revolve around a car. Not all films are based on his story. It is sheer coincidence that both of our stories have a car as an integral part of it. Also, my story is entirely different from the story he has been telling to the media. More over, I have registered my story in Writer’s Union, too. Let the Union read both the scripts and decide.”
 
 
