MUMBAI | BENGALURU: A set of deleted official emails may have been a key factor why former   chief financial officer Rajiv Bansal’s   were suspended, two people with direct knowledge of the board’s deliberations on the matter told ET.
 
  Bansal, who quit Infosys in October 2015, was awarded more than Rs 17 crore in severance, which was characterised as outsize by some of the company’s founders and had only been disclosed in May 2016. This led to pushback by the founders and the Bengaluru-headquartered company paid out aboutRs 5 crore before suspending the payments in June.
  
  While media reports suggested that founder NR Narayana Murthy’s criticism led to the stoppage, the people cited above told ET it happened when the company purportedly discovered that Bansal had forwarded official emails to his private email account and then deleted them from the office system.
  
  Bansal specifically denied forwarding or deleting any official mails, the persons told ET. He said the emails he deleted were not confidential and were personal in nature, they said. Bansal did not respond to an email seeking comment sent last Thursday or to follow up messages and calls. Infosys declined to comment.
  
  
  “A number of mails have been deleted after being forwarded to his personal ID and it is being looked into legally,” said one of the people cited above. Bansal resigned in October 2015 and exited Infosys in December that year. The emails were said to have been deleted close to his departure from the firm.
  
  The deletion of emails was discovered by top executives in the company’s audit and finance department, the sources said.
  
  The company has previously said that Murthy’s criticism was not the reason for suspending the payout.
  
  “Certain payments to Rajiv under the agreement have been suspended pending certain clarifications with regard to such rights and obligations,” Infosys had said in a statement in October 2016. The company said it was administering the severance in accordance with the contract.
  
  The sources said Infosys had also sought legal advice on the ramifications of the deleted emails. Employees are obliged to safeguard the intellectual property rights ( ) of the companies they work for, said Advait M Sethna, a lawyer who specialises in constitutional law.
  
  “To maintain confidentiality of data including the intellectual property rights of an organisation is a contractual obligation case on the employee,” he said. “Tampering with such data which causes damage, prejudice to the organisation, may result in attracting penalties under Section 66 read with 72A of the Information Technology Act. However, the organisation alleging such tampering or misuse has to strictly prove the damage and/or prejudice caused to it.”
  
  Sending official emails to a personal address can be risky, said the former CFO of a large consumer company. “As a CXO, you simply cannot forward mails from a company ID to your personal mail because technically speaking, it’s company IPR,” the person said. “Sometimes, CFOs may do that to cover their backs on approvals, etc, but even then it’s a dangerous practice and usually leads to bitter exits with the organisation they worked with,” he added.
  
  Bansal has invoked the arbitration clause in his contract, ET reported last month. Indus Law is representing Bansal while Nishith Desai Associates is counsel for Infosys in the matter. The case will be heard through fast-track arbitration.
  
  The severance and subsequent blowback have been a thorn in the company’s side for more than a year. In October 2016, Infosys revealed it had conducted two investigations — in October 2015 and August 2016 — after Bansal’s resignation. Both investigations were conducted by law firm Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas and were shadowed by KPMG. The investigations revealed no wrongdoing, according to the company.
  
  In February this year, founder Murthy slammed the company’s corporate governance standards and said the payout had the appearance of “hush money”. Board members have since said they made an error with regard to the amount and have institutionalised a process to determine severance payouts for employees. 
