BENGALURU: This trio of quinquagenarians – people in their 50s — has pledged at least two decades, if not more, to serving the sick. It’s their undying commitment to alleviate pain, and improve the quality of life of patients that unites Juliet Anand, 54, Pushpavathi BS, 58 and  , 51.

 Motivated to join the nursing profession by a deep-felt sense of compassion, the three women shared their experiences in nursing with TOI on the eve of   –  . Born into a family of nurses, Juliet grew up watching her mother and grandmother tend to patients, caring little for their time and pleasures. “One has to have a large heart to be a nurse. One must be capable of loving a complete stranger as her own,” said Juliet, who tends to at least 20 chronically ill cancer patients at the palliative care unit at  .
 
 Juliet, with 28 years of service under her belt, is driven by a desire to reduce pain and suffering in patients. Her duties at Kidwai range from cleaning patients to feeding and putting them to sleep, but Juliet goes about her duties with a smile. Pointing out that her work timings couldn’t be governed by a strict schedule, Juliet said, “Although I have to work only six hours daily according to my schedule, I end up spending more time with patients. I do it out of choice.”
 
 Juliet recalled an incident involving a prisoner, who was admitted to the  . In the last stage of cancer, he had just a few months to live and expressed his wish to taste a plate of mutton biryani. The next day, the entire ward was served the delicacy. It’s an apple that an impoverished 60-year-old patient gave that remains Juliet’s most cherished gift. “He couldn’t afford to buy fruits for himself. But he bought one for me, and offered it as a gift for what I had done for him. No gift can bring such joy,” said Juliet.
 
 For 31 years, Pushpavathi’s becalming presence has helped patients in the burns ward of various hospitals cope with their pain. “All burn patients literally have to be hand held through the procedures because of the pain. We also have play the role of their counsellors since most go through post-fire mental trauma. We become their best friends and try to help them find positivity again in life,” said Pushpavathi, who is currently a nurse in the burns ward at   at Shivajinagar.
 
 To help children who suffer burns get through the difficult phase, Pushpavathi often turns into a kid herself. Recalling an incident in Tumakuru, when nearly 60 people sustained burns during the fire walk ritual, Pushpavathi said, “It was heart-wrenching. Most of them had sustained at least 40% burns. We worked day and night, and were able to send them back home fully cured. It was great that we could cure all of them.”
 
 While treating HIV-positive patients, and others suffering infectious diseases at the Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital, Vidya believes there’s no room for discrimination. Vidya, who was awarded the Florence Nightingale Award in 2012, said, “We have to overcome the stigma that society attaches to HIV-positive patients, and become better human beings. All we need to is to use protection equipment such as masks and gloves to prevent contraction.”
 
 Besides ensuring that the patients are provided a nutritious diet, and taking care of their hygiene, it’s the psychological comfort that Vidya lends to them that makes the greatest difference. “Our only motto is to improve immunity of HIV-positive patients in every way. We have to educate them, and treat them with love and affection. All they long for is some concern and care,” said Vidya.
 
 It was her father’s death when she was still a child that motivated Vidya to take up nursing. In her 19-year long career, Vidya has served at, among other places, primary health centres and district hospitals and overseen more than 250 deliveries.
 
 
 
 
  -- Pushpavathi BS | Nurse, Burns Ward, Victoria Hospital
 
 
