CHENNAI: With a dizzyingly high   rate in its schools,   has a battle on its hands to stem the exodus of students to other institutions, stop them from taking up trades or falling out of the system and facing a bleak future.

 According to data from the civic body, as many as 1,329 students dropped out of   in 2016-17.
 
 Dropout numbers reduced by nearly 50% compared to the prior academic year (when 2,350 students quit corporation schools), but experts are of the view that the failure to retain a large number of students each year is a pointer to the need for the corporation to improve the quality of education the schools offer and create a conducive atmosphere for learning in classrooms.
 
 There are many reasons for students leaving corporation schools. Among them are ill-planned slum eviction drives, lack of career prospects and unfavourable ambience in the institutions.
 
 The dropout rate among boys (720 in 2016-17) is higher than girls (609), with middle to high school students accounting for a significant portion.
 
 Corporation officials said proactive measures, such as the ‘Challengers initiative’ to aid teachers in counselling duties and psychosocial counselling helped reduce dropout numbers in the last academic year.
 
 “We are studying the impact of slum clearance drives on dropout numbers. We will try our best to avoid policy decisions that impact schoolchildren,” deputy commissioner (education) M   said. “We set up education desks during eviction drives where we ask parents to consent to their children being transferred to corporation schools near where they are moving.”
 
 Experts said the civic body has several options to increase retention.
 
 “[Class IX] marks the start of adolescence for students. At this stage, the classroom atmosphere has to be conducive,” State Platform for Common School System general secretary P B Prince Gajendra Babu said. “The behaviour of teachers — showing empathy and compassion to students — is crucial at this stage.”
 
 Educationist   said corporation schools should provide quality of education close to or on a level with top private schools for a nominal fee.
 
 The corporation has 281 schools, all of which are within the earlier city limits, and 77,631 students.
 
 
