PUNE: The   (MPSP) has decided to stop the practice of distributing   among students of primary classes. Instead, the money required to buy the textbooks will be transferred directly into the  .

 A government resolution (GR) announcing the change does not mention when it would come into force. 
 
 A notice to this effect was sent out to all education officers (EO) on Wednesday also making it the responsibility of the officers to open zero-balance bank accounts in the students’ name. Activists and teachers have opposed the move saying that with only four months to go, the implementation for academic year 2017-18 will fail. Senior officials of the   have said that the scheme will perhaps be implemented from the next academic year.
 
 Further, the letter says that students aren’t benefiting from   due to a lack of bank accounts. “Therefore, it is of utmost importance that zero-balance accounts be opened for the students and their Aadhaar cards be linked with their respective bank accounts. If students are unable to get the benefits of welfare schemes since they don’t hold bank accounts, the responsibility will lie with the respective education officer,” the letter states.
 
 However, education activist Mukund Kirdat expressed a sense of apprehension about the move. “The experience about direct beneficiary transfer has not been good so far. There are graduate and postgraduate scholarships that have been pending since a year. How will the authorities ensure that this is done on time? There should have been a pilot project to identify the loopholes. Secondly, how will the government ensure that students staying in remote areas get the textbooks? First, put a system in place and then announce rather than running around,” said Kirdat.
 
 Bhausaheb Chaskar, a teacher, also expressed his dismay at the sudden decision by the government. “The teachers will ultimately be under pressure to make sure that students have a bank account. Now, should we stop teaching and start standing in queues at banks? How can we ensure that parents will spend the money on buying textbooks? Lastly, how are we supposed to know which parent will enrol their children in Std I so as to get their accounts opened?”
 
 A senior official in the education department said, “How is this possible? There are 1.20 crore students and opening zero balance accounts for all in this limited time span, especially with so much crowd at banks, is impossible. Moreover, the scheme can work only as a reimbursement method as the department needs to first know how many students are enrolled in a particular class.”
 
 The letter comes after a government resolution was passed on December 5, which stated that all welfare schemes run by the government that would provide benefit in the way of commodities will now be converted into money and directly transferred to the beneficiary’s account.
 
