KOLKATA: Multiple rallies throughout the day choked the central business dist-rict and its vicinity on Wednesday.

 More than 500 doctors from seven associations converged at   in the afternoon to protest violence against doctors across the state. After a protest meeting at the spot, they headed to Esplanade, paralysing traffic along SN Banerjee road, Lenin Sarani, Rafi Ahmed Kidwai Road and Chandni Chowk. Carpools from St. James’, Loreto Dharamtalla, Calcutta Boys’ and Calcutta Girls’ headed north got stuck in the snarl.
 
 Even before traffic movement could normalize, the Left Front   that started from Subodh Mullick Square at 5.30pm and culminated at Ganesh Chandra Avenue hurled the entire central Kolkata into a mess once again. The rush of Puja shoppers added to commuters’ woes.
 
 The entire Ganesh Chandra Avenue, parts of Central Avenue, Bentinck Street and Subodh Mullick Square had to be shut to traffic, leading to diversions and excessive load on Lenin Sarani, SN Banerjee Road, Esplanade East, Government Exchange Place and BB Ganguly Street.
 
 “The traffic in central Kolkata is anyway coming to a standstill every evening for the Puja shopping rush. The snarls build up till MG Road on the northern side and   on the south. Today’s Left Front rally completely threw traffic out of gear,” said a senior traffic department officer.
 
 People returning home from office and shoppers heading to and from New Market were badly affected. Buses and other vehicles on Central Avenue were stranded for over one hour from around 4.45pm. 
 
 “I got off my taxi on Central Avenue around 6pm after being stranded there for over 30 minutes. There was a long procession from Subodh Mullick Square that blocked the entire crossing. I preferred to walk till New Market,” said Mitali Ghosh, a resident of Phulbagan.
 
 Trouble awaited 65-year-old Gautam Chatterjee, a retired banker, and wife Sushmita when they reached Esplanade from Howrah, on the way to their daughter’s house on Lenin Sarani, in the evening. “The bus was not moving at all and it was very hot. I was scared for my husband who is old and does not keep well. We had no clue how to reach our daughter’s house,” said Sushmita, a resident of Howrah Maidan.
 
 
