BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh government's ambitious 'Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao' campaign, which was adopted by the Centre and several other states, seems to be merely a slogan, as the state allocates a dismal 0.6 per cent of the school education budget to girl child education, reveals a survey by Child Rights and You (CRY) with   (CBGA). 

 The state, which claims to be a pioneer in launching development schemes for the girl child, lags behind other states. The study projects a grim picture of the state when it comes to education of girl child as the budget allocation, which should have been ideally increased over the years, has seen a decline by one per cent in 2015. Odisha has the highest share of budget, which is 5.9 per cent, for educating girls.
 
 "In 2016, the net enrolment ratio of the girl students has been 45.6% at the secondary level and 23% at the higher secondary level. Despite the low ratio, the state allocates only 0.6% of the school education budget to girl education," states the survey, a copy of which is with TOI. 
 
 It further states that the Madhya Pradesh has 8.16 per cent dropout girl students at elementary level, which increases to 26 per cent at secondary level. Newly appointed   (RSK) Commissioner Lokesh Jatav said, "I am new to this office. I have to go through the survey and then only I would be able to comment on it," he said.
 
 Furthermore, the survey also states that out of school children in Madhya Pradesh is 19.2%, which is the second highest amongst the study states. Despite this the state spends only 1% of   (SSA) budget on mainstreaming of these children. It is pertinent to mention here that Madhya Pradesh government's   was replicated by the Central government and was launched in the national format at Panipat in Haryana. Speaking to TOI, Soha Moitra, CRY Regional Director- North, said, "There is a sharp dip in the net enrolment ratio of girls from the elementary to the higher secondary level. 
 
 At the same time there is more than threefold increase in the dropout rate for girls. Clearly the state is falling short of the benchmarks set for education of girls. There is a greater need to review the current budgeting for girl child education and take corrective measures."
 
