NEW DELHI: There are 89 professors in Jawaharlal Nehru University who are guiding 10 or more PhD candidates. Incredibly, 15 of them have 20 or more scholars under their wing. Not only is this against the University Grants Commission’s stipulation of a professor guiding only eight doctorate students, but this is also highly skewed given that 191 other professors lead less than the mandated number.

 This was among the many glaring anomalies that the university revealed on Thursday to counter allegations that it was attempting to reduce the intake of research students.
 
 For some time now, students have been charging the   administration with trying to reduce the number of seats available for research. “The administration has finally made it clear that it is all out to close admissions to the MPhil/ PhD programmes. The number of intake for the upcoming admissions, which are in violation of the approved intake decided in the Academic Council and according to court orders, have been released,” alleged Pratim Ghoshal, JNU student and member of   (DSF).
 
  
  
 
 Countering this, university officials claimed that the intake had been altered “within the prescribed norms” to avoid the imbalance in the allotment of research scholars to each teacher. “MPhil and PhD are research programmes, so UGC decides the number of students a faculty can guide,” explained M Jagadesh Kumar, vice-chancellor.
 
 “The policy dates back to 2009. A professor can guide eight PhD students, associate professors, six, and assistant professors, four scholars. But in our university, some teacher guide over 20 PhD students, even as some do not have a single PhD student. This imbalance is not good for the quality of research.”
 
 The university data showed 15 assistant professors — allowed one MPhil and four PhD candidates — were in charge of five or more MPhil scholars and 44 had “extra” PhD scholars. Thirteen of them had 10 or more PhD candidates, with one teacher guiding 23 PhD students. Among associate professors, 17 were guides to more than 10 PhD candidates and 19 to five or more MPhil students. This, when 69 associate professors did not have the stipulated MPhil numbers under their wing and 95 did not have the quota of six PhD scholars.
 
 Will this imbalance affect the number of seats in the university? The vice-chancellor denied any step to reduce seats, but said that for the time being only those teachers who have vacancies will be allowed to enrol students. 
 
 “If a professor has more than 25 scholars, they will continue and complete their PhD programme under his/ her guidance,” said Kumar. But if another professor has two instead of eight students, then he/ she can take six students. We aim to encourage the faculty to fill up these vacancies.”
 
 
