BENGALURU: After rattling the BJP by raking up the   controversy,   chief minister Siddaramaiah is looking to win the war by giving legitimate status to the community's demand.
On Wednesday, the CM virtually urged the advocates of separate religion status for the Lingayat community to submit a formal petition to take the issue forward. “I cannot promise anything. The Lingayats need to come forward and submit a petition to me, seeking special status. So far, I have not received a petition," he told reporters here.
 
 With this message, the CM is hoping he will get a formal petition from community leaders, which he can use to derive political advantage by officially recommending it to the Centre -just as in the Kalasa-Banduri issue (to provide water to Gadag, Dharwad and Belagavi districts).
 
 "Once the recommendation is sent to the Centre, the obligation of granting independent religion status to Lingayats will shift from the   to the BJP, putting the party under pressure ahead of the 2018 polls. This can cause ripples and Siddaramaiah is hoping it works in the favour of the Congress ahead of next elections," a senior Congress leader said.
 
 Not realizing the intent behind Siddaramaiah's statement, his junior Lingayat colleague and mining minister,  , said the community had petitioned the CM months ago and is hoping he will take it forward.This caused minor embarrassment to the party , with the CM and minister speaking in different voices. Kulkarni, part of the fivemember team eliciting public opinion in favour of declaring Veerashaiva-Lingayat community a separate religion, said he is in favour of seeking religion status.
 
 Medical education minister Sharan Prakash Patil, too, joined the bandwagon seeking independent religion status for Lingayats, claiming his community cannot be part of the Hindu religion. "The Congress has not started this debate; a call seeking separate status was given 40 years ago. Even the Veerashaiva Mahasabha agreed to this then. The government has no intention of dividing people on caste lines. We have decided to seek public opinion on this since there is a demand now," he added. He sought to know why the BJP does not have portraits of   in its office when it has been enjoying the support of the Lingayat community .
 
