MANALI:  , wildlife and amazing landscapes of Spiti have potential to improve the lifestyle of the   but the   is preventing them from encashing this opportunities in   It is the outsiders, who are taking advantage of this and making a good living.

 “We want to grow with tourism but we can’t. We do not have much qualification to deal with the tourists, especially foreigners,” resident of Kee village Tanpa Lote said, adding that the valley was in dire need of an institute offering courses in tourism and hospitality.
 
 “Number of tourists visiting Spiti is increasing every year. But we don’t know how to encash this. Outsiders are taking advantage of our ignorance,” Lote adds.
 
 The 13 panchayats of Spiti have population of 12,444. The valley doesn’t have college or other institute, and only a few of the youth go out for higher education. Some are doing good jobs outside the valley. But those living in villages are not well versed with English and tourism and hospitality industry. Only a handful educated people have built hotels and are operating tours in the valley.
 
 “We don’t have telephone connectivity. We don’t have internet facility. How we will reach the tourists. How we shall contact them or they us,” another resident Norbu Chhering says. He added that BSNL mobile services work in Kaza, Tabo and only some chosen places but the service is poor. “Phones do not work regularly, what to talk of internet and this when most tourists plan their trips online,” he adds.
 
 Compared to traditional road to Spiti from Shimla via Kinnaur is very long. The road journey from Chandigarh can take up to three days. The valley is closer from Manali side but the Manali-Kaza road remains open only between July and mid mid-October.
 
 The residents are demanding to build an airstrip at   which they believe would bring prosperity to the region similar to Leh. Spiti has emerged as best place in the country for wildlife watching, especially elusive snow leopard. The rugged mountains are attracting foreigners for trekking and its ancient monasteries are attracting religious tourisms as well, they point out.
 
