KOCHI: Is the city slowly becoming a hub of smuggling?

 Two major hauls by the wildlife crime control bureau and the police on Thurdsay point towards a new facet of crime in Kochi.
 
 While the wildlife crime control bureau seized deer musk, `jackal horn' and a `king shell' estimated to cost at least Rs 15 crore in the contraband market, Ernakulam rural police seized banned bank notes worth Rs 2.71crore (prior to demonetization) following a hot chase on Thursday morning. Police acting on a tip-off also arrested six persons, including a woman in this case.
 
 The arrested are Nanda Kumar (43), manager of   branch, Anoop Shashidharan (27), Jiju Jose (38), Ali Hassainar (27) Amir Kujumuhammed (36) and Laila Pareeth (44) who runs a tailoring shop at Aluva Thottumukham.
 
 According to police, a special shadow team intercepted the vehicle of the accused after they sped to Aluva town when police signalled them to stop near Paravoor Junction.Another vehicle used by them has also been seized.
 
 Sources with the wildlife crime control bureau said that Gopalakrishnan (55) was trapped by the officers who posed as decoy customers. He had sought Rs 20 crore for the entire goods. Sleuths said five pieces deer musk grain were recovered from him. The bureau is now investigating the source of the smuggled goods.“We believe that the accused had got the stuff from another agent. The likelihood of the accused being directly connected to any poachers is less but we are investigating all angles,“ said an officer.
 
 While `jackal horn' is a boney cone-shaped excrescence believed to grow on the skulls of jackals and used in black magic, `king shell' is a type of sea shell.
 
 According to police, a special shadow team intercepted two vehicles involved in smuggling banned bank notes after they sped off to Aluva town when police signalled them to stop near  .
 
 The team formed by Ernakulam rural SP A V George and Aluva CI Vishal Johnson intercepted the vehicles near Aluva Palace and arrested them at around 5 am. “The operation was conducted following a tip-off about the gang traveling to Aluva in the vehicle. Though a team asked them to stop at Paravur Junction, the vehicle sped off.A police team chased the SUV and intercepted it near Aluva Palace. We suspect them to be part of a racket which converts old currencies into new Rs 2,000 and Rs 500 notes. The agents are doing this for commission,“ said George.
 
 Police registered a case under various sections of the Specified Bank Notes Act, 2017.
 
 According to police, the woman Laila was waiting for the team in front of her textile shop expecting a call from the other accused. She was arrested from near the shop.
 
 “The Enforcement and   officials have been informed about the note seizure. According to preliminary investigation, the currencies were being brought from Malappuram. We are yet to ascertain whether the old notes were brought for conversion,“ said a police officer.
 
 They were later produced before a court which remanded them in judicial custody.
 
 Kochi city shadow police had last week seized banned notes Rs 2.3 crore. They also arrested five persons for dealing in banned currency notes after they approached a currency exchange agency in Nettoor. The contraband currency was seized from Muvattupuzha. The police found that the gang had converted banned currency worth more than Rs 15 crore.
 
 City shadow police arrested seven persons including a minor for possessing one kilogram of ganja and more than 50 Nitrazepam tablets.
 
 The arrested have been identified Vinish Nair (21), Sebastian (21) Jojo (18), Rithin (18) and Tony (20) and Maharoof. The accused were ooked under the  
 
