New Delhi: Chief minister Arvind   has asked for an independent audit of the accounts of Delhi   Rail Corporation, likening it to private power distribution companies which, the   said, had shown fake losses to justify tariff hikes.

 Kejriwal on Sunday asked for the income and expenditure details of DMRC to be put in the public domain and that the decision to   fares should be put on hold till the central and Delhi governments examine the relevant files.
 
 “There is an immediate need for an independent audit of the DMRC accounts. In Delhi, we have already experienced how the private power distribution companies used to hike power tariffs by showing fake losses. It is only since 2015 that there have been no power tariff hikes in Delhi. The proposed   hike should be put on hold for at least three to four months till the Centre and Delhi government can inspect the relevant records,” he said.
 
 Reacting to comments of union minister for urban affairs Hardeep Singh Puri, who reportedly said that even though the Centre was examining Kejriwal’s letter on DMRC, Metro fares would need to be hiked, Kejriwal added: “If commuters are not be able to use the Metro because of high fares, what will be the utility of running the Metro.”
 
 However, sources said that DMRC’s annual reports are already available on its website. “Its accounts are also audited by CAG. Likening it to discoms would be incorrect since they are private companies,” a source said.
 
 Asking DMRC to follow the financial model of the Hong Kong Metro, the CM said that the AAP government had “strongly opposed” any fare hike during the fare fixation committee meeting that took place in September 2016.
 
 “It is unfair on the part of the committee to have overlooked the objections of the elected government, particularly when the views were placed in writing. The letter written by the government to DMRC on June 30, 2016 has already been put out in the public domain. If the fare fixation committee wants to function in a manner in which the views of the elected government are ignored, there is no point in the future for the Delhi government to nominate any representative to the committee,” he said.
 
 He further said that the argument that DMRC needs a steep fare hike for repaying its outstanding loan and for covering its operational costs is highly flawed. On the contrary, he said, Delhi Metro needs to increase its efficiency. “There is an immediate need to maintain a balance between the operational needs of the Delhi Metro and the interests of commuters for whom Metro services are a lifeline,” he said.
 
