NAGPUR: Sitting corporators from the   (BJP) and Congress who were denied tickets have rebelled against their respective party’s official candidates.

 After snapping ties with Congress in the run up to the February 21 civic polls, the Nationalist   (NCP) has decided to support Congress rebels.
 
 NCP spokesperson told TOI that the party would support all Congress rebels. Sitting Congress corporators like Meena Tidke, Deva Usare, who were denied tickets, were given A and B forms, he said.
 
  (SS), which refused to go with the BJP in the civic polls, too opened its door for the rebel candidates who were denied tickets by their parties. 
 
 Among them is sitting BJP corporator Anil Dhawade who joined Shiv Sena, which also offered him A and B form. He will be now contesting from Prabhag 22.
 
 Out of 151 seats, more than 3,000 had applied for BJP candidature with at least 7-8 aspirants vying for each seat. Under such circumstances, it became difficult for the party to finalize candidates and with demands like Dhawade’s it became all the more difficult.
 
 However, SS also denied tickets to its rebel sitting corporators Sheetal Gharat who recently joined Congress. Even the Congress didn’t give a ticket to her. SS corporator Mangala Gawre, a close aide of Gharat, too was refused ticket from the SS.
 
 The Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) too received a jolt. Its sitting corporator   rebelled and joined Congress.
 
 The Bahujan  , which has fielded candidates from all prabhags, is expected to face stiff competition from its splinter group BRSP. The party has denied tickets to even two women sitting corporators Manisha Ghodeswar and Harsala Jaiswal. 
 
 As BRSP too has fielded candidates from maximum prabhags, there would be expectedly a division in the cadre-based vote bank of the factions banking on the schedule caste population in various pockets of the city. 
 
 The dream run of BSP, which had won in 12 seats in 2012's civic election, is expected to be thwarted by BRSP.
 
 
