LUCKNOW: The passing away of   Association of India (BAI) chief Akhilesh Das Gupta on Tuesday is a ‘sudden death’ for badminton in India.

 The sport which has provided two Olympic medals in the last two Games at Rio de Janerio and London (silver by PV Sindhu in 2016 and bronze by   in 2012) will be the biggest loser after his death.
 
 With Gupta embattled in bitter row with former BAI secretary Dr Vijai Sihna over embezzlement, there doesn’t exist any second line in the association, who can take over the mantle and guide the body.
 
 In this case, P Gopichand, the man who has guided India to new heights in badminton has to don a new role apart from his coaching duties, to pull the game and the association out of the quagmire it has got itself to with the death of Das.
 
 Becoming the BAI chief in 2011, Das’ reign has been controversial. The way he took over from VK Verma wasn’t in itself a ‘sporting affair’. Last year, the   (CBI) investigated him for promoting nepotism and sending his daughter to Japan on a trip sponsored by BAI. But, he was cleared of the charges.
 
 Das himself was a national player of repute during his younger days. A doubles specialist, he had a stinging smash and great retrieving skills. But, putting on weight, he took to the sidelines after graduating from Lucknow University.
 
 But, he was a man who never forgot people who helped him during his playing days. And, one such person was Fazil Ahmed. The man, during whose tenure in the 1970s he was sent on a two-month coaching stint to England.
 
 As a quid pro quo Das never challenged Fazil’s authority in the association, and used to say: “I can never go against Fazil sahib. He has helped me a lot during my playing days.”
 
 Das also had great regard for late Syed Modi, with whom he had battles on the court in state championships. Though, the latter always had the better of those battles, but Das respected the player in Modi.
 
 He was also instrumental in getting the Premier Badminton League started in the country. An event, that has brought financial gains for the players and has also taken the game forward in the popularity charts in India.
 
