He loved spending time with children. He took care of my kids as if they were his own," recalls Basudev, Professor Yash Pal's cook, who served him for 20 years. A scientist of international repute, a   awardee, a much-loved academician and popular for the 'Turning Point' series in the days of Doordarshan, Professor Pal passed away on July 24. He lived a very simple and low-profile life in Noida's Sector 15, and after his demise, his colony has gone quiet as his neighbours and domestic staff lament over the sudden loss. We visited his society, where his neighbours and cook talked to us about their cherished memories with the professor, his love for children and more.

 
 Mohammed Hanif, who stays behind Prof Yash Pal's house, says, "He was a warm individual. He was nice to everyone in the society. He treated the family of his cook as his own."
 
 
 Basudev tells us how he misses his employer. "I live in the servant quarters right behind his home. I have served him for the last 20 years. I was a young boy when I started working for him. I still can't believe that he has passed away. He had no grandchildren, so he took care of my children as if they were his own and even financed their education," he says.
 
  
  
 
 Professor Pal had two sons - Rahul and Anil. Anil lives with his family in the US, and Rahul, a scientist who works at the  , stays here with his wife and has no kids.
 
 
 Basudev says, "Every day, he would get up at six in the morning. He would work relentlessly on his laptop and on some days, he would even work till two in the morning. He would regularly go to colleges and attend seminars, but for the past one year, he had reduced his visits due to ill health. He was getting weaker and I could see that."
 
 Rajiv Rai, who's been living in the colony for 14 years and knew the professor, tells us, "He was a very level-headed person, benevolent and very friendly with kids. Also, he was a vivacious reader. He was fond of kids, and particularly fond of my kid. He used to often call them over to his place. He has been financing his cook's kids' education also."
 
  
  Prof Yash Pal
 
 
 Prof Yash Pal had also been the president of the society's club for a few years. Recalling how the professor installed a telescope in the society, the society's accountant tells us, "Once, some unique stellar phenomenon was about to take place, and he got a telescope installed here to show people how magnificent it was. He even explained the phenomenon to us. He was a very well-read man – he spent most of his time in his library."
 
 Narender Kumar, a senior citizen said, "He would gather children of the society and would explain various scientific theories to them. He would explain science to them in layman’s language in such a manner that they would listen to him keenly."
 
  
  
 
 
 
