KOLKATA:  , Madhurima Banerjee had been trying in vain to buy e-tickets for a   at an  . The   kept displaying a notice saying: “Tickets for Bengali movies will not be available online due to system upgradation. Kindly purchase the tickets from the Box-Office. Inconvenience caused is regretted.” However, there was no problem when she bought e-tickets for the same show at Priya.

 Subhasis Ganguli, regional director (east) Inox, said, “This problem surfaced on July 1 when   was rolled out. For tickets priced above Rs 100, the GST is 28%. The Central tax component is 14% and the state tax component is 14%, in which there was an existing state rebate of 2%. Under the new notification, the state is giving a rebate of 12%. While selling tickets, we are charging the entire GST amount and then refunding the state rebate in cash. As for online tickets, it taking time for BookMyShow to figure out a way of giving the refund. Till a solution is found, the online ticket sales for Bengali movies at Inox has been suspended.”
 
 Navin Choukhani of Navina Cinema has the same problem. “Unless BookMyShow reconfigures the software where we are allowed to show the rebate part on the ticket, we can’t sell tickets online.” 
 
 Dipen Mitra, owner of Mitra Cinema, said, “I have been selling tickets online, but now I am confused about the GST rebate, I have temporarily stopped sale of e-tickets for Bengali films.” 
 
 Arup Saha, senior business development manager of BookMyShow, said that after the GST rollout there has been some problems with certain theatres. “However, Nandan, Priya, Cinepolis, Carnival, SVF and PVR are still selling online tickets for Bengali movies. We have not received any written notification regarding who this state rebate should go to. We are going by the version given by exhibitors and setting the ticket price accordingly. Initially, we knew that there is no concept of a patron discount in the notification issued by the state. However, we just learnt that there is some such clause. This lack of clarity is causing confusion,” Saha said.
 
 Arijit Dutta of Priya, however, doesn’t buy this logic. “Those not selling tickets of Bengali movies online are killing Bengali cinema. We are charging the customer keeping in mind the rebate offered by the state.” 
 
 At the Inox ticket counters, too, customers were confused about why they had to first pay the entire ticket amount and then get a refund. “We can’t take the deducted amount at once because when we deposit the taxes, we have to show the correct GST account. After finding what the state rebate will amount to on the ticket price, the viewer is given the refund in cash,” Ganguli explained.
 
 
