THANE: A week after the goods and services tax ( ) was rolled out, electronic dealers in the city claimed a downfall of around 33 per cent as far as consumer goods such as mobile phones, laptops, computers and cameras were concerned. 

 Initial software updates, revised pricing system and technical glitches were a few factors that the dealers attributed the downfall to.
 
 The most affected are the smaller electronic outlets in the local markets. On the other hand, the GST has not hit mall shoppers interested in buying   much.
 
 Sales manager of a mobile stores at Naupada, Uday Mangaokar, said, “Before GST was launched, our average weekly sales were around 150. However, in the one week of implementation of GST, our numbers reduced to 100. The customer flow reduced partially because mobile accessories now have a 28 per cent GST levied upon them. Since, mobile phones are luxury items, the sale has gone down. For the initial two to three days, we were given instructions to upgrade our software according to the new regulations and a new numbering system was to be developed and this further declined the sales.” 
 
 Mahendra Moriya, manager of an electronic store in Naupada, said, “We have not yet ordered the new stock from companies as it will probably take a couple of weeks more to sell the existing stock. Despite an exchange offer scheme going on, customers aren’t purchasing these products.”
 
 While it is true that the current situation is not in favour of buyers from ordinary middle-class households with regards to electronic items, Vilas Bhandarkar, who has numerous shops selling laptops and computers is confident that things will begin to change by mid-July. 
 
 Bhandarkar of a computer store at Ghantali, said, “At present, GST on laptops and computers is 16 per cent and on printers and its accessories is 28 per cent. After GST, the consumption of such products for home purposes has reduced in number. But there are still many who buy these items because they get claims from their respective corporate companies. The demand will not stop. Laptops and computers have become a necessity today and things will get better with time.”
 
  outlets in the city reported that post GST the market has stabilized.
 
 “Customers come every day for inquiries and also ask about the increased prices. But business is stable now. The customer flow has not been affected,” said B P Pandey of a furniture showroom at Manpada.
 
 The stable situation is similar in   which are offering heavy discounts across all products, specially on apparels with no special offers pertaining to electronics as such. 
 
 Rima Pradhan, senior vice president of marketing at a popular mall in the city, said, “As per early trends, post GST things are stable. The footfalls in electronic stores continue to be similar to what we saw during the pre-GST sales.”
 
 
