NEW DELHI: All organisations, commercial complexes, hotels, malls, shops and residential societies located in north Delhi have been asked to dump waste only after segregation and make compost of the green waste.

 These bulk waste generating establishments generate more waste than many households together and usually these establishments don’t engage in segregation of waste. The   issued the order for all such establishments spread on 5,000 or above square metre area or generating 100kg waste every day.
 
 “We have informed the societies and institutions about the importance of segregation of waste and asked them to do it diligently. Soon we will intimate them about the last date to start the process. If they fail to do it by that date, the corporation will impose penalties on such institutions and societies,” said   mayor Preety Agrawal.
 
 The corporation is trying to make the institutions and societies take active part in the process initiated under ‘Swachhta Hi Sewa’ campaign to make north Delhi cleaner. The corporation launched campaign on September 15 and it will continue till October 2.
 
 The Municipal Solid Waste Rules 2016 mandates societies and establishments spread on over 5000 square metre area and generating over 100kg waste every day to segregate waste and also compost it.
 
 “The corporation will provide green and blue bins in these societies and institutions to facilitate the segregation. In some societies the different coloured bins are already there,” said Jayender Dabas leader of the house. The corporation will also have to make provisions for separate space in its tippers used to transport garbage. “We are also going to do that,” Dabas added.
 
 In some of its parks the north corporation’s horticulture department has started composting of horticulture waste, which is used to keep the gardens green. Three pits have been prepared in the parks in which horticulture waste is put. One by one these pits regularly convert the waste into compost. Similarly with small investment the societies and institutions can prepare composting facilities, which can generate enough green fertilizer to keep the lawns and gardens in and around them green.
 
 “The societies and institutions have to bear the expenditure of establishing these facilities. We are spreading awareness about it,” said Agrawal.
 
 
