NEW DELHI: A 40-year-old   was killed and two others were injured after a speeding car ran over them on a   opposite a temple in Chhatarpur. The accused driver, Pankaj, is an accountant at a shop in south Delhi. He was caught trying to flee the spot and handed over to the police. A probe has been initiated to find out whether he was driving drunk.

 Around 11.30pm, the deceased, Kanhaiya, along with Om Prakash and Inder Kumar was lying down next to a bus stop opposite Shani temple near CDR Chowk in Chhatarpur. Suddenly, the speeding Swift Dzire coming from towards Mehrauli drove on the footpath, rammed a pole and   Kanhaiya and Om Prakash against the wall.
 
 Hearing the crash, a local shopkeeper, Jagannath, rushed to the scene. “I saw the driver get off the car and run towards Chhatarpur. He crossed the road and tried to board an autorickshaw, but was caught by a temple security guard. The man first claimed that he wasn’t driving the vehicle, but later admitted to it after getting thrashed by the locals,” he said.
 
 Inder Kumar said Kanhaiya was asking for a bidi from him when the car rushed towards them. It crushed Kanhaiya and Om Prakash. Inder was also injured as fragments from the concrete pole hit him on the face.
 
 “I jumped backwards to save myself, but Kanhaiya and Om Prakash could not move away. We had to push the car to pull out Kanhaiya. He gasped twice asking for water and died after having a sip,” Inder said.
 
 Om Prakash and Kanhaiya were taken to Safdurjung hospital. Om Prakash has a fractured leg and injuries on his face and chest.
 
 Pankaj is a resident of Ghitorni and was on his way back home from work at Chhatarpur. A few glasses were found in the car, which led the police to suspect drunk driving. Pankaj’s blood samples have been sent for medical analysis.
 
 “A case of causing death due to negligence has been registered against Pankaj. He had bought the car two years ago. The vehicle, registered in Haryana, has been impounded. We are trying to locate Kanhaiya’s family in Bihar,” said additional DCP (south) Chinmoy Biswal.
 
 
