Madurai: The Madurai bench of the Madras high court on Friday stayed the state government order dated June 23 which enables students belonging to other states and thus having dual nativity to secure admission to MBBS and BDS courses in Tamil Nadu.

 The division bench of justices K K Sasidharan and G R Swaminathan gave this stay on a public interest litigation filed by Madurai central MLA Palanivel Thiaga Rajan of DMK on the matter. The petitioner said there were many pitfalls in adopting the national eligibility-cum-entrance test (NEET) alone in the process of selection of students for medical education.
 
 He said Tamil Nadu alone could boast of establishing 24 medical colleges in the country all of which were attached to hospitals. The state government was spending huge sums of money on every student. On completion of the course, the doctors were compelled to serve the rural population for at least a minimum period of two years.
 
 Though NEET was introduced, the state government cannot compel students belonging to other states who got admissions here to serve and work for the rural public in Tamil Nadu. The Union government miserably failed in evolving a system to check the production of dual nativity certificate and claiming seat in more than one state. The Tamil Nadu government too failed in it, he said.
 
 "The state's health and family welfare's department's order speaks about nativity certificate, but doesn't express any provisions or check measures regarding dual nativity of candidates, which ultimately affects the students of Tamil Nadu in getting admission to courses," he said.
 
 In all, 34 candidates holding dual nativity certificate, who were real natives of either Kerala, Karnataka or Andhra Pradesh, had joined medical colleges in Tamil Nadu. One student, Nimisha AnnMathew, who scored 514 marks in NEET, stood as 160th candidate in Tamil Nadu merit list and in 3,129th position in Kerala. As she could not secure admission in that state, she gained entry into a college in Tamil Nadu by holding dual nativity certificate.
 
 He said the admission for students of other states will deprive the students who had their domicile in Tamil Nadu. Now, the selection process in Tamil Nadu is over without formulating any methodology to scrutinise the nativity certificate.
 
 
