PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Housing societies in   have started feeling the pinch as expenditure on   went up after the civic body effected an alternate-day water supply from May 2. 

 Some societies questioned the need for the civic body to effect a water cut when there is enough water in Pavana dam.
 
 The societies in Pimple Saudagar, Wakad, Chikhli and Moshi are the worst-hit. Some societies in Pimple Saudagar have banned car washing and watering of plants, some have allowed it only once in two or three days and others have stared fining residents if they do not follow these rules and waste water.
 
 Rajesh Patil, chairman of Planet Millenium, said, “We have 629 flats. There were good rains in the monsoon so we felt the civic body will continue with once-a -day water supply. Some borewells in the society have gone dry and only some are yielding water. So we need 10 to 12 water tankers.”
 
 He said the rates of the water tankers have also shot up from around Rs 900 per tanker to Rs 1,300 per tanker.
 
 “We have instructed residents to wash their cars and water plants once in two to three days. We have started fining residents Rs 500 to Rs 1,000 depending on their water wastage,” he added. 
 
 Ashok Shinde, chairman of Kunal Icon, said, “There are 850 flats and 40 rowhouses in the society. Earlier, we needed 10 to 15 water tankers but now we need 25 to 30 tankers after the fresh water cut. The rate of water tankers have also increased from Rs 550 to around Rs 800 per tanker thereby putting an additional burden on the society. We have urged residents to use water judiciously.”
 
 Shinde added that apart from organising a lecture for domestic helps working in the society on ways to save water, they have started recovering a fine of Rs 1,000 to Rs 3,000 from residents who waste water.
 
 Malhari Madane, chairman of   housing society in Chikhali, said, “Earlier, we needed 5 to 6 tankers per day but now we need 12 to 16 water tankers which has increased our expenditure. Earlier, the rate for one tanker was Rs 1,200 to Rs 1,600 which has increased to Rs 1,800 to Rs 2,000.”
 
 Sampat Shilimkar, chairman of Abhangvishwa housing society in Chikhli said their tanker requirement has also increased from one tanker per day to four tankers. Each tanker costs Rs 1,000 now as against Rs 800 before the water cut.
 
 Sachin Londhe, chairman of Nandan Inspira housing society said they will need more tankers in the next few days as one borewell has gone dry. “We are buying 18 tankers per day and have entered into a contract with the supplier who charges Rs 600 per tanker,” he said.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Ravindra Dudhekar, joint city engineer and chief of water supply department, said, “ Alternate-day water supply or 20% water cut is applicable for the entire city so the residents of housing societies in Pimple Saudagar and other areas must co-operate and reduce their usage.”
 
 He said the civic body has to plan better usage of available water so that residents do not suffer if there are scanty rains in June.
 
 
