ETAWAH: Be it the elderly or young, in   — the native village of   — all were in favour of an early solution for the ongoing tussle in the Yadav ‘parivar’. Village head and   veteran Mulayam Singh Yadav’s childhood friend Darshan Singh Yadav said it’s a game plan of rivals, who, by hook or crook, want to wrestle power from SP.

 Those native to Saifai say the SP supremo has come a long way since he entered politics in 1962 — winning a state assembly seat, contesting for the regional Samyukta Socialist Party, and later founding the Samajwadi Party in 1992. “Netaji toiled hard to raise the party. We are all hopeful that the family will come out of the difficult phase victorious,” they said. “Such issues prevail in every family, but it all dies down soon. So we are all praying to God for a permanent solution instead of giving TV channels a chance to relay it like a soap opera for TRP,” said a local of  , preferring anonymity. 
 
 “I have full confidence in Netaji. He has fought bigger battles and this time too he will defeat them and come out of the crisis,” said 81-year-old Darshan Singh Yadav. He added, “Elections are round the corner and it’s my humble advice to Shivpal, Ram Gopal and   to be wary of the rivals’ gameplan. People of Saifai are always concerned about our ‘Dhartiputra’ (son of the soil) and his clan,” said Darshan, who has won the gram pradhan election seven times. 
 
 Another elderly villager, Manik Chandra, said, “It’s Netaji’s hard work that helped Akhilesh put on the CM’s cap. He must respect his father’s decisions like a good son. Things will be sorted out soon among Mulayam, Akhilesh, Shivpal and Ram Gopal, and they will unite again and work together to win 2017 assembly polls.” 
 
 Many locals and party workers were seen assembling in front of Ram Gopal Yadav’s house in Saifai on Sunday evening. “People of Etawah are very worried about the ongoing tussle and are praying day and night for unity among the family members, as well as the party” said Rajiv and Sanjay, siblings who stays opposite Ram Gopal’s house. 
 
 The lane leading to Mulayam Singh Yadav’s kothi in Saifai wore a deserted look. Most locals in the area were either glued to the TV sets or checking out messages on their phones. The party office in Civil Lines area of Etawah too wore a deserted look.
 
