NEW DELHI: Two men allegedly tried to drag a woman inside a car while she was returning home from work near   in south Delhi’s   on Saturday night. She, however, managed to escape before the kidnappers could pull her inside and raised an alarm.

 Police have arrested a youth,   (22), a resident of Ghitorni. He said that he had been stalking the woman for the past few days.
 
 “My daughter was on her way back home and had walked merely 100 steps from her workplace when she saw a man standing next to a parked Maruti 800 car. The man then walked up to her and struck a conversation by asking if she knew a certain woman living nearby,” said the girl’s father.
 
 Wary of his advances, the woman requested the man to stay away from her, but he paid no heed and moved even closer. “When my daughter confronted him, he touched her inappropriately and tried to shove her inside the car. Another man who was seated inside tried to pull her in. She somehow managed to free herself and ran towards the parlour where she works. A couple of women came out hearing her shouts for help,” added the father.
 
 Her colleagues chased the men and managed to catch hold of one of them. He was handed over to the police. The car used in the crime has been impounded. The other accused is on the run.
 
 The incident has left the victim’s father worried about his daughter’s safety. He said that it was not unusual for men in inebriated state to frequent the area and create chaos, besides harassing women.
 
 “A case has been registered under Sections 365 (kidnapping or abducting with intent secretly and wrongfully to confine person), 511 (punishment for attempting to commit offences punishable with imprisonment for life or other imprisonment) , 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 506 ( punishment for criminal intimidation) and 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) of the IPC on the basis of the woman’s statement,” said deputy commissioner of police (south), Ishwar Singh.
 
