It’s been a year since the Puttingal temple tragedy, which claimed the lives of 111 people and injured over 350 others but the memory is still fresh in our minds. While the debate on whether to renounce fireworks and crackers for festivals has been raging since then, many still put ‘tradition’ and ‘pride’ ahead of human lives, as was evident from the recent  , which had vedikkettu as part of its grand festivities.
However, there are a few religious institutions in the State that are taking the road less trodden by shunning the opulent festivities and spending the money saved on charitable causes. We talk to the heads of some of these   and temples who are and setting an example:
 
 
 It wasn’t easy for the festival committee of Thrikkapuram Devi Temple in Kaitharam, Ernakulam, to put across the suggestion of avoiding firecrackers in this year’s temple festival. The fest has been a matter of pride for the entire Taluk.
 
 So how did they manage to convince the residents? The festival committee president Vinod Gopinath says, “We had three cancer patients in our committee and everyone knew how hard it was for them to pay for the treatment. When we suggested that we save the `1.20 lakh that we usually spend on firecrackers every year to help the cancer patients, the majority of the people were for it.”
 
 But the committee ensured that none would feel disappointed by the absence of the fireworks, and spruced up the festivities. “The festival has been a symbol of glory and so we wanted to retain that aspect. Instead of firecrackers, we chose innovative ways by organising a large Thiruvathirakali performance with 700 women, Theyyam and also Thalappoli with 500 women instead of the usual 50,” says Vinod. The amount saved was passed on to the cancer patients, he says. “People were ultimately happy as it was for the greater good, ” adds Vinod.
 
 The committee also did their bit to ease the plight of elephants by reducing their number from seven to three in the temple procession this year.
 Sreenath Shankarankutty, a resident of Thrikkapuram, is all praise of the endeavour. “The temple festival has a special place in all our memories from childhood. As kids, we always looked forward to the fireworks. As we grew up, we became more sensible and became aware that they was not safe and were just a waste of money. However, none from our village opposed it for sentimental reasons,” he says, adding that the fireworks were a matter of prestige and pride after all for the two sections of the village that organised it.
 
 Sreenath lauds the steps taken by this year’s temple festival committee. “It must have been tough for them to break that emotional barrier. It’s a brave and landmark decision for the village and its people,” he says.
 
 
 
 The Edathua Perunnal, one of Kerala’s most popular Christian festivals, too had toned down the festivities this year and raised ` 8 lakh to help six homeless families construct houses. Fr John Manakunnel, vicar of St George Forane Church, says that this year’s festival was among the best they have had so far. “The fireworks of   were so famous that people across the globe come down to enjoy it. However, the Puttingal tragedy was an eye-opener of sorts and that’s why we decided to shun the crackers and fireworks,” he says.
 
 While he acknowledges that their move could have hurt the sentiments of many, he says, “We thought that through this small step, we can make a difference in society, save the environment and also stay away from danger.” The initiative was received positively by the devotees, he says. “Along with the Rs 6 lakh we saved, the devotees collected Rs 2 lakh more and the entire amount was given to the homeless,” says Fr John. 
 
 
 Similarly, the entire Thamarassery Diocese decided to give up firecrackers this year. Fr Thomas Nagaparambil, vicar of Marymatha Cathedral, Thamarassery, says, “We have been mulling over it for a while but were hesitant as church festivals are a matter of jubilation and many look forward to it. However, this year we decided to call off the firecrackers. Everybody realised that it is just a show of wealth.”
 
 All the 120 churches that come under the diocese soon followed suit. “The celebrations give us happiness for a second. So we decided to do without it and help a few who were financially struggling, and give them permanent happiness. Houses are being built, students are being supported for their education and so on,” Fr Thomas adds. 
 
 
 While these religious institutions entirely shunned firecrackers, the three villages that conduct the Uthralikavu Pooram made the festival a low-key affair this year. CA Shankarankutty, secretary of Uthralikavu Pooram organising committee, Wadakkancherry, says, “We usually spend around `75 lakh to `1 crore for fireworks every year as the Pooram reflects the prosperity of three villages. However, this year we spent just `30 lakh and stuck to gundu (cracker bombs) and Chinese crackers.”
 
 The team decided to spend the rest of the amount on adding more cultural programmes to the festival. However, the festival sans the fireworks had a direct impact on the crowd turnout. “Usually nearly two lakh devotees flock to the festival just to experience the firecrackers show. This year, only 50,000 turned up,” he says. “We are hoping that people will eventually start thinking and be more practical.”
 
