NEW DELHI:   clarified on Tuesday that Delhi government’s stance in Supreme Court that it was not pressing for   for Delhi pertained only to the case in hand which was about the powers of the state and Centre in the present arrangement. It asserted that there was   change in its political demand for full statehood.

 BJP had attacked the   government on its stance in SC where it has challenged the Delhi high court order which said the lieutenant governor was not bound by the Delhi government’s aid and advice. 
 
 As AAP’s stance in SC came under attack from the Opposition, Rahul Mehra, senior standing counsel (civil) and standing counsel (criminal), Delhi government, took to twitter to say: “For all those misreporting today's hearing, Delhi govt never claimed to be a full state/statehood but a UT with special status.” A senior AAP functionary who did not want to be named said: “The issue of statehood is not in court as it is a matter that involves the legislature. As far as AAP goes, we stand by our demand for full statehood.”
 
 Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s media advisor, Nagendra Sharma, also tweeted that “Delhi statehood was neither an issue for adjudication before the Delhi high court, nor is it in the current appeal being heard in Supreme Court.” He added: “Del govt had challenged Centre's 23 May 2015 notification taking away Services in Del HC & related matters, appeal in SC is agnst HC verdict”.
 
 “During the last two years, Delhi has witnessed a repeated hue and cry by Arvind Kejriwal and his party over grant of statehood for Delhi. He had even called a special session of Delhi assembly to raise the demand,” said Delhi BJP president Manoj Tiwari. “Kejriwal’s demand of statehood for Delhi was not for serving people but just to get unrestricted powers to work at his pleasure and misuse the exchequer at his will.” 
 
 A draft, `State of Delhi Bill 2016', was put in public domain by the Delhi government in May last year. The views of political parties had also been sought. It was announced that the key features of this draft were: “Delhi Police will be made accountable to the elected government of Delhi. Delhi Development Authority and the municipal corporations of Delhi will also become fully accountable to the people of Delhi.”
 
 A special provision has been proposed for the New Delhi area (under the jurisdiction of New Delhi Municipal Council). “For the New Delhi area, Parliament will have exclusive legislative and executive powers on matters relating to public order, police, local government and land. This is necessary to address the requirement of the special status as National Capital Territory,” it is proposed. This area will, hence, remain under the jurisdiction of the Government of India, it was said.
 
 
