NAGPUR: The   ( ) in city will be providing dental diagnosis and treatment to people of  . It will be also conducting a door-to-door survey in the Naxalite-infested areas too. Those found with any major dental problem, especially like oral pre-cancer or cancerous lesions in the mouth, will be brought to Nagpur for diagnosis and treatment.

 Dr Sindhu Ganvir, the GDC dean said the GDC and Search (Society for Education, Action and Research in Community Health) in Gadchiroli, have signed an MoU. “Under this project we would be sending an intern every fortnight to stay at Search and examine patients in the dental clinic of the Search. 
 
 He would diagnose and treat patients which require simple dental treatment. But patients requiring services of specialists like oral surgeon etc will be identified for further treatment by such specialists from GDC. A lecturer from these specialities will be visiting Search at least once every month and will treat the patients there,” said Dr Ganvir.
 
  Search hospital has a good operation theatre but there are cases of oral cancers in which patient needs to come to Nagpur for treatment. 
 
 “These patients will be identified through an annual door-to-door survey conducted in the interiors of Gadchiroli with the support of our GDC team. A full-fledged team of specialists from various fields of dentistry, including me, will be conducting the door-to-door survey with the help of Search volunteers. 
 
 “There are a number of tests that cannot be done there and hence patients may be brought to GDC for some diagnosis as well,” said Dr Ganvir. 
 
 “In our last visit in February this year to Search we found two cases which have crosses the treatable stage of oral cancer. There is a patient with tongue cancer caused due to tobacco which we will try to operate in Nagpur,” said the dean.
 
 Dr Abhay Bang, founder director of Search, said   and KV Rangachari from Nagpur are funding the project. 
 
 “The consumption of tobacco is quite high in Gadchiroli. We need to not just diagnose oral cancers in the initial stages but also treat them adequately. But the residents here are apprehensive of even opening their mouth to a doctor. The GDC has been very supportive in identifying patients,” said Dr Bang.
 
 Dr Bang said that Search had mobile dental clinics too. But there is no concept of dental care among the tribals and hence there is a need for support from the GDC.
 
