MUMBAI: The city’s second dedicated bus corridor will come up in Worli, encircling Mahalaxmi  . Nearly 100 buses will be able to ply along the lane every hour, catering to lakhs of commuters daily, BEST said on Monday.

 The lane will reduce traffic snarls in the area and prevent buses from overtaking private vehicles or coming in their way. Similarly, buses will be able to move smoothly along the route.
 
 The first corridor at   faced teething problems but drivers have now been disciplined to ply only along the lane, officials said.
 
 The second lane will pass through National Sports Club of India (NSCI), Haji Ali Circle, the road outside the race course gates, Mahalaxmi railway station, Nehru Science Centre on E Moses Road, Worli Naka, and Atria Mall on Dr Annie Beasant Road, before connecting to the same route outside NSCI gates.
 
 For buses headed towards Worli Seaface, or towards Dadar or Byculla from Mahalaxmi station, there will be signages for taking turns at traffic signals.
 
 Transport expert Rishi Aggarwal said the authorities should first improve road/traffic discipline, stop illegal parking on the leftmost kerb by two-wheelers, Kaali Peelis and tempos, and ensure buses ply smoothly along the corridor. “If this is not done, we are not ready for a dedicated lane,” he stated. 
 
 Another expert said the lane should have bollards at spots prone to trespassing and illegal parking. “If you remove illegal parking on the leftmost kerb of roads at Worli, it will free up space for the lane,” an official said. 
 
 Sources said BMC has floated tenders to demarcate the lane, paint corridor boxes and signages. A senior civic official said, “We are keen to start the corridor at the earliest and will ensure the lanes are marked properly and instructions are issued to traffic police to maintain discipline.”
 
 A traffic official said the pilot project on a dedicated bus lane conducted on the stretch between   and Haji Ali junction some months back was a success. “We have to keep proper vigil, there should be public awareness on the dedicated lane so that other vehicles don’t trespass,” an official said.
 
 BEST deputy general manager R R Deshpande said once other agencies, including BMC, give their go-ahead, BEST will be prepared to run all buses along the dedicated lane. “It will certainly improve frequency and increase earnings,” he added.
 
 
