HYDERABAD: Tall claims of   woes coming to an end are ringing hollow as most ATMs across the city are suddenly running dry .
After a brief respite, several ATMs over the past week have been largely empty with some dispensing only `2,000 notes. Citizens say most ATMs are displaying  
 
 Officials say the cash crunch at ATMs is due to large withdrawals after salaries were credited. “This is only one of the reasons, but the cash position is not good at the currency chests either. Remonetisation is not up to the mark,“ said a manager of a public sector bank on condition of anonymity .
 
 At least 95 per cent ATMs are running dry and normalcy isn't expected to return any time soon. While officials are optimistic that the crunch would end in the next couple of days, those in the banking sector feel it may take at least 20 days for things to improve.
 
 The cash position is leaving people in the lurch. People, who backed the move, have also begun questioning poor implementation in the state.
 
 “Now the situation is reaching tipping point. Have you seen any bigwig standing in queues? Go and check how stranded citizens are cursing the government,“ said S Kiran Sarma, who was standing at an   of a private bank on Wednesday afternoon in Masab Tank area. “We suspect more cash is being sent to states where polls were being held like Uttar Pradesh, leaving southern states high and dry ,“ said Ramesh Reddy , resident of Madhapur.
 
 Banks officials say cash flow into banks depends on inflow from RBI and also receipts from market. “Receipts are not pouring in, people are retaining cash and traders are not depositing money in banks,“ said Venkata Ramayya, a bank employees union leader.
 
 Another   said, it's a tricky situation spurt in online transactions is tightening the cash rotation in the market and it's impacting receipts to banks from markets.
 
 Also, banks are continuing to keep more currency in branches, especially in rural areas to serve customers, which in turn is having an impact on ATM kiosks.
 
 Despite being recalibrated to handle new `2,000 and `500 notes, most of these ATMs are running dry .
 
 
 
 Apart from encouraging people to opt for digital transactions, the RBI and the government must ensure that the cash supply to banks meets required levels. While the government made a positive move by removing limits on withdrawals, it needs to do more to ensure adequate cash supply to government and private banks
 
