  

 
   ,  , Adah Sharma, Sayani Gupta
 
 
   
 
 
 14 Jul, 2017
 
 
 3 hrs
 
 
 Jagga (Ranbir Kapoor) a curious and shy young boy in a quaint little town lives a happy life with his accident-prone father, Bagchi (Saswata Chatterjee). After admitting Jagga into Boarding School, his father suddenly disappears from the scene. Feeling abandoned, Jagga's only contact with his father is a VHS tape that he receives in the mail every year on his birthday. Armed with sharp detective skills, Jagga sets out to solve the mystery of his missing parent. Along the way he finds a partner in Shruti (Katrina Kaif) an accident-prone journalist with her own international criminal case to solve. Using a few tricks he learnt from Bagchi, Jagga and Shruti embark on a mission to uncover details of his father's mysterious life and find themselves embroiled in a worldwide smuggling racket.
 
 
 Through all its excitements and exhaustions, the person who keeps it entertaining is Ranbir Kapoor. He manages to make you laugh and tugs at your heartstrings by being goofy and gloomy as suddenly as required. Katrina Kaif has little to do but makes for a good sidekick to Jagga. Saswata Chatterjee’s vulnerability and Saurabh Shukla wickedness balance each other perfectly. Parts of Jagga Jasoos are greater than their sum. But there’s no reason you shouldn’t head to a theatre and investigate for yourself. 
 . 
 
 
 Jagga Jasoos had a low opening of around 20-25% on average. Watch this space for more update on Jagga Jasoos box office collection.
 
 
 : According to the latest report on BoxofficeIndia.com, 'Jagga Jasoos' raked in as much as Rs 8.25 crore to 8.50 crore on day one at the box-office. Mumbai and Bangalore saw major footfalls on the first day of the film's release.
 
 
 : The musical rom-com showed a remarkable growth of 30 percent on its first Saturday with a collection of approximately Rs 11 crore and now stands at around Rs 19.25 crore.
 
 
 : The film has raked in as much as Rs 31.75 crore within three days of its release. The film opened to a good response with Rs 8.25 crore on Friday, followed by Rs 11 crore on Saturday and Rs 12.50 on Sunday.
 
 
 : The film made minimal progress on day four with Rs 3.50-3.75 crore nett business. The total collection of the film now stands at Rs 35.25 crore.
 
 
 Coming Soon...
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 More audience reactions to Jagga Jasoos coming soon. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 The trailers and songs of 'Jagga Jasoos', toplining Ranbir Kapoor and Katrina Kaif, have heightened expectations from the Anurag Basu-directorial. Previously, the filmmaker and the actor had collaborated with   (the studio backing their detective musical) for Barfi!. 
 
 "'Jagga Jasoos' is an endearing journey of a boy in search of his father and the adventures he encounters along the way," says, Amrita Pandey, Vice President, Studios, Disney India, adding, "The lyrical style of narration binds the film together, which is rare in Indian cinema. The movie has the potential to cut across age-groups and appeal to everyone." 
  
 
