Times News Network

 Chandigarh: The enforcement wing of the UT estate office on Monday razed around 80 illegal structures in Kaimbwala falling in the catchment area of Sukhna Lake amid protest and mild stone-pelting that left three officials injured.
 
 The Punjab and Haryana high court in May 2012 had imposed a ban on new construction in the catchment area of Sukhna Lake, which includes Kaimbwala, Khuda Ali Sher, Kansal and Saketri.
 
 The drive began around 9am and ended at 4pm.
 
 A large number of officials of estate office along with police descended on the spot with excavators and bulldozers. Some of residents pelted stones on the enforcement staff, forcing them to call for additional police force. Around 100 policemen had to restore to mild cane charge to disperse the protesters. Three officials were left injured and were taken to hospital for treatment. No police case was registered.
 
 Additional deputy commissioner (ADC) Rajiv Gupta said that there are around 200 illegal structures in Kaimbwala, of which 80 were demolished. He further said that the remaining structures will be razed in coming days.
 
 Lashing out at the administration, Dalip Kumar, sarpanch, Kaimbwala, said the move has left a large number of people, largely belonging to low income group, homeless. He said they will take up the matter with MP Kirron Kher.
 
 Khuda Ali Sher, the next target
 
 After completing drive in Kaimbwala, estate office will demolish illegal structures in Khuda Ali Sher. As per official records, there are around 200 such structures there
 
 HC directions
 
 The high court had issued directions for maintaining the catchment area as such, which is vital for restoring the Sukhna Lake, by ordering that no housing colonies or building activities of any kind would take place in it either within the forest or the agricultural area falling within the jurisdiction of Punjab and Haryana as well as Chandigarh as per the map prepared by the Survey of India. The administration had also issued a public notice making residents aware about the decision.
 
 High drama
 
 High drama was witnessed as residents of staged a protest. They raised slogans against administration and central government. Some of them were spotted crying. The residents alleged that the demolition was carried out without any notice. Sonu, one of the residents, told TOI that the official did not even give them time to take their belongings. “We begged the enforcement staff given us time to take out our belongings, but they did not pay heed,” Sonu said. 
 
 Heyday for scrap dealers
 
 After the drive got over, a large number of scrap dealers descended on the area to make most of the opportunity. They purchased iron and other waste from helpless residents at throwaway prices. Kamla Rani, 61, said: “We were left with no option, but to sell our stuff at whatever rate quoted by the scrap dealers,” said Rani.
 
 Congress condemns drive
 
 Meanwhile, local Congress leaders held BJP responsible for leaving people homeless. A group of Congress leaders led by city president Pardeep Chhabra visited the spot and interacted with the affected families. “A large number of people have been left homeless, thanks to the insensitive BJP,” said Chhabra.
 
 
