MOTIHARI: Shaken by a series of threats and crime incidents, the medical fraternity was again faced with an   call to a doctor, reviving the fear of ‘rangdari’ or ‘protection money’ racket being run by state-based gangsters. 

 This time, the demand was made both through phone calls and a letter, to a leading practitioner Dr TP Singh. He received the calls on Wednesday with the caller asking him to cough up Rs 10 lakh or face dire consequences . Dr Singh has lodged a case with the Town police station about the extortion demand by Kunal Singh, a dreaded criminal. Kunal is an accused in the killing of another criminal Bablu Dubey on Bettiah cour campus recently. 
 
 Dr Singh also sought security fearing threat to life. The extortionist has threatened him to kill his son if the money was not paid in time, said police.
 
 SP Jitendra Rana said, police are investigating the case and the number of the caller has been put on surveillance. Security guards have been provided to the doctor for his protection.
 
 Meanwhile, the Motihari chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA) convened an emergency meeting here under the chairmanship of Dr Niraj Sinha on Wednesday and condemned the incident. The IMA members urged the SP to arrest the criminal within five days.
 
 It may be recalled that two noted doctors of Motihari (husband and wife) left Motihari after resigning from the state services two years ago due to constant threats of extortionists. The extortionists had also kidnapped and killed a baby of a noted surgeon which was even raised in the assembly.
 
 In another incident, Dr Dinesh Bhagat of Rajepur also received a call from extortionists on Wednesday and was asked to pay Rs 5 lakh as ‘rangdari’. He too has lodged a case with the Rajepur police station. 
 
 One Rahul Agrawal, a businessman of Rajabazar locality, recently got an extortion call and was asked to pay Rs 10 lakh. He has lodged a case with the Town police station. Police have arrested two criminals in this connection.
 
 
