Five relationship boosting ideas that will supercharge your  .

 
 
 
  Think ruby pout, the classic red Valentino gown, sinful strawberries, the colour red is associated with passion. But go beyond red. Research has shown that bright and happy colours like Emma Stone’s flirty-sunny yellow dress in La La Land and Victoria’s Secret’s hot pink collection (even men can get adventurous with some quirky print boxers) release the happy hormone dopamine that gets you into a playful mood. Let this dopamine dressing have a trickle-down effect on your behaviour, psychiatrist Dr Deepak Raheja advises. He says, “Make a fun statement to your partner, flirt in the middle of a party, send a kiss emoji on Monday noon – it will work.”
 
 
 
 
  English scientist Chris Fith conducted a study in 2001 to scan brain activity between couples during eye contact and found that the brain releases the pleasure hormone during eye contact. So next time, lock your eyes too in a passionate duel. Deep gazing into each other’s eyes in the throes of passion has the potential to power up your sex life. Raheja says, “It’s a good way to keep the routine-ness out of intimacy.”
 
 
 
  A study by the Touch Research Institute found that when you stimulate the pressure receptors in the skin, you lower stress hormones. A warm touch stimulates release of the “cuddle hormone”, oxytocin, which enhances a sense of trust and attachment. It is one of the most fundamental ways of fostering and communicating intimacy in a romantic relationship. Raheja suggests, “Sit close to each other while watching a movie and seal good night with a quick kiss if all you want is sleep, after a long day.”
 
 
 
  Not sure about yoghurt’s sex appeal? Think again, as Susan Erdman, a microbiologist at MIT, has attributed the “glow of health” that makes skin shiny and hair lustrous to healthy microbes that live in our gut – a surefire way to look attractive at all times. Nutritionist Ritika Samaddar says, “A healthy gut leads to better mood and a happy you.” A diet with plenty of probiotics such as curd, kefir, kimchi, miso soup, will go a long way in making your gut stronger and your sex life more than just vanilla nice.
 
  
 
 
  When two pleasure-inducing activities — namely food and sex — meet, the result can be explosive. Planning meals together, engaging in exotic food conversations ups the sexiness quotient of your meal time. Plus it makes couples more tuned into each other’s food desires. Its romantic and you can end a dinner date with some coffee (ahem!).
 
 
 
 
