COIMBATORE/TRICHY: Poverty pushed them into child labour, but destiny had other plans for them. As many as 17 students, who were rescued under the   (NCLP),  , cleared the   on Friday. 

 Out of the 17, five are from Coimbatore and the remaining from Tirupur. At least four of these students are the first in their family to have passed the Class X board exam.
 
 One such student is G Pavithra, who studied at the Palaniammal Corporation Girls Higher Secondary School, Tirpur. "After finishing Class VIII, I joined a textile mill. I worked there for one year," the 16-year-old said. It was vocational teacher from NCLP,  , who helped Pavithra to continue her studies.
 
 Like Pavithra,  , 16, too worked for a year in a textile mill earning 200 per day. "I plan to pursue nursing," she said.
 
 While most students managed to score more than 70%, some even crossed 80% mark. "Marks do not matter. We are happy that these students have shown the dedication to take up higher secondary and we hope they will at least pursue graduation," said the director of NCLP, T V Vijayakumar.
 
 In Trichy, four children rescued from child labour and rehabilitated, scored over 400 marks. With 448/500 marks, Santhosh scored the highest among the 23 students who wrote the examinations this year. 
 
 While Santhosh was rescued from a textile unit, Kanagavalli, who secured 416 marks and Sowmiya who got 402, were house maids when they were picked up. Born to a weaver family, Santhosh dropped out from school at the age of 10. Bogged down by poverty on one side and weak eyesight on the other, Santhosh was forced to drop out from school.
 
 "I regret my decision as my son has now proved me wrong by his academic performance despite his weak eyesight," says G Siva, Santhosh's father. He was later identified by members of NCLP and put in their school at Kodiyampalayam. Aspiring to become a doctor, Santhosh is thankful to his teachers at Sowdambika matriculation higher secondary school for helping him in his studies. 
 
 Project director of National Child Labour Project- CHEERS Pearline Selvakumar said that all the 23 students rescued by CHEERS and who wrote Class 10 board exams this year had passed the examination. Among these students, four secured above 80 per cent marks and 10 over 60 per cent. 
 
 NCLP schools target children rescued from hazardous occupations in the age group of 9-14 years with the objective of bringing them into the mainstream. 
 
