BENGALURU: After listening to the fans roar 'who needs Batman we have Robin" during his days with  , it would be fair to assume that the talismanic striker will be a bit nervous when he lines up before the West Block fans in a rival jersey. In an interaction with reporters on the eve of  's match against Bengaluru FC, the firebrand  , who loves to be known as a fighter, said the   remains one of his favourite places to ply his trade. 
 

 
 
 I missed playing in Bengaluru. I love playing here. So whether it is East Bengal (or any other team) it is nice be to be back here. I know most people will not agree with what I say next but hopefully we will win.
 
 
 
 
 I don't know (how the fans will react) and that's a question in my head as well. But as I know, West Block are for Indian football. It would be fun playing before them. A lot of our players, specially internationals, have not played here. I've spoken to them a lot about Bengaluru. About the city, the fans... and we are looking forward to the match. I was happy to sit in the Bengaluru team bus coming here from the airport. I like everything about Bengaluru. I'm talking to you right now and I'm getting goosebumps. It's still heavy to leave Bengaluru.
 
 
 
 What happened, happened. Did we take it off the pitch? No. It's a game of 90 minutes and it can be called one of the biggest games when rivalries are concerned. I love being physical. People say I'm a figther more than player. I have never backed out from a fight. When Sunil and Mehtab went at each other, half the Bengaluru side and half the East Bengal side joined in. That's what you need to control.
 
 
 
 
 Happiness, yes. But was it because it was BFC? No. I'm a striker and my job is to score. It takes just a second for someone to make a mistake and unfortunately it was John (Johnson) who made the mistake. I was at the right place at the right time. I was happy that I scored and this happiness will be the same against   because for me, scoring for East Bengal is more important.
 
 
 
 
 We will do whatever it takes to win. If we work harder we will win the title. This rivalry is going on for the past three years and I was lucky to be part of all that. I have been in a Blue shirt and tomorrow I'll be in a red and gold.
 
