KOLKATA: At weekends, Sandeep Sethi’s restaurant in Paris is usually full and throbbing till midnight. On Sunday though, ‘Atarchana on Rue Du Telegraphe’ nearly emptied out around 7.30 pm as did all other hangout joints in Paris as everyone headed for the  . After a brief countdown, at 8 pm Paris time, 11.30 in India,   was declared President and the crowd bust out in cheer. Then the party began. 

 “The result was a forgone conclusion. People did not have a choice but vote for Macron because Marin Le Pen’s party   are too extremist for French society to accept. Electing her would be like voting the RSS to the government in India,” Sethi felt. 
 
 Sunday’s election was in many ways a repeat of the 2002 elections when other parties backed Jacques Chirac to prevent Jean-Marie Le Pen, Marin’s father, from winning the elections. “It just reaffirms that the French are not as stupid as Americans. They are educated, not emotional fools,” Sethi remarked.
 
 Tamanna Alam believes the tacit backing that Le Pen received from US President   backfired. “France did not need another Trumpian disaster. We are all relieved Macron has won. If Le Pen had come, she would have clamped down on immigration and taken France out of EU. Though she did not use anti-Muslim rhetoric in her campaign speeches, there is no ambiguity amongst Muslims in France about her views about the community,” said Alam, who migrated eight years ago and lives near the Stade de France in Paris. 
 
 That Le Pen got votes from over 11 million French people took many by surprise, but not Alam. She believes her support soared due to the spate of attacks in France by Islamic radicals. 
 
 “The victory puts huge reponsibility on Macron’s shoulders. He has to unite a country that is deeply divided. People want security and an end to attaks,” said Alam.
 
 Stephane Alamir, director of Alliance Française du Bengale, watched the election results on television and rejoiced. But the morning after, the delight is tempered with caution over the support that Le Pen has received. “The Socialist and Republican parties will have to make a comeback at the legislative elections in June. Because if National Front becomes more powerful, Macron will be in a very difficult position. This is the first time that France will be ruled by someone from the centre and it will be a tightrope walk,” he felt.
 
 Alamir also believes Brexit played a role in the French elections, helping many make up their minds to vote for Macron simply to remain in the European Union. Arnab Sarkar, who lives in south Paris, said it was the support Le Pen garnered that surprised him the most. There were more than 4 million blank votes that amounts to 10% of electorate. A further 26% stayed away. So, 36% voted neither this way or that. Still, 34% of votes went to Le Pen. “These are challenging times for France. A lot will depend on how Macron performs in the first 100 days,” said Sarkar, who works in the hospitality industry.
 
