MEERUT: As part of its ongoing  , the   (MDA) demolished around 100 shops on the   The   is home to several colleges and institutions and thousands of students travel to the place daily. The shops had come up on both the sides of the road, close to the institutions, to provide food, soft-drinks, fruits, street food and other necessary items to the students. A few shopkeepers have alleging that the MDA did not provide them prior notice, so that they could have prevented damage to their property. The MDA, however, claims that a prior notice was provided to them but they chose to ignore it.
 
  The shops situated around these private colleges had over the years developed from shanties to pucca shops, and the MDA claims that the shops were unauthorized. “There was no permission for these shops to exist there. The land doesn’t belong to them and neither did they have permission for construction. These had to be demolished. There are no two ways about it,” said Devendar Chauhan, junior engineer, MDA.
  
  TS Mishra, another junior engineer with MDA, said, “We had sent out notices and we had informed the shop owners that the shops will be demolished. It is not our fault that they did not take out valuables from their illegal premises. They should have acted upon our notices, but they took things lightly and never acted.”
  
  Vijay Kumar, a shopkeeper, however, refuted these claims. “We were not told in advance about this. There was no communication of any sort. We could have taken out important things from the shops. They too have been demolished now because the MDA did not inform us about this,” he said.
  
  Students in the area are complaining that with the shops gone, they have no place to go for snacks and meals. “Now, where will we eat? There is no place for us to go. These shops were our lifeline. We used to eat our meals here. And since this is such a far-off place from the city, there are no other options. The MDA should make an alternative arrangement,” said Rahul Joshi, a student.
