KOLKATA: Around 15 people from the   area in   allegedly battered a dog and assaulted a 30-year-old NGO employee. The canine eventually died while the youth is nursing a head injury which was treated at M R Bangur Hospital. There have been no arrests yet. It was not known why the locals attacked the dog. A passerby dialled 100, following which cops rescued the youth from the mob wrath.

 The youth who was thrashed, Swapan Haldar, was returning to his Prince Anwar Shah Road home after work on Monday night. While riding his motorcycle along Russa Road around 10.15pm, the dog lover was shocked to see around 15 residents of the locality with rods and bricks in hand. They were allegedly attacking a stray dog. The dog was writhing in pain as the blows landed on him. The animal even took hits from metallic weights — used by traders for weighing goods — that were thrown at him by the locals.
 
 Moved by the hapless animal’s screams, Swapan tried to reason with the locals, telling them if the animal was troubling them, they could call Kolkata Municipal Corporation’s dog squad which could take the animal away from the area. Swapan said: “The locals were in no mood to listen to me. They simply demanded to know who I was to question their action. My words enraged them even more. For a while, they left the dog and started venting their rage on me. They countered why they should have to even answer my questions about what they were doing and why they should heed my advice. They started beating me up with the rods they were carrying. Fortunately for me, a passerby stopped on seeing me being attacked and dialled 100 to call the police.”
 
 As the Regent Park cops reached the spot, and the locals fled. “Police took me to the hospital nearby. Doctors there stitched my head injury. I had, meanwhile, called up friends and neighbours of my locality near Jogesh Chandra Chaudhuri College on Anwar Shah Road. Some of them visited Russa Road and informed me that the dog had died. From the hospital, I went and lodged a complaint at Regent Park police station.”
 
 A senior officer of the police station said: “We are trying to trace the accused. The victim has a cut on his head. He received blows from the mob. A case of hurt and threat has been registered”. Both are, incidentally, bailable offences. DC (south suburban division) Badana Varun Chandrasekhar said: “It is a grave offence to kill a dog. We will nab the accused and take all legal steps to ensure the guilty are punished.”
 
 
