PUNE: The   airport authorities have issued a fresh directive to airlines iterating that the cabin luggage rule of only a hand baggage per passenger should be enforced.

 The instruction follows the recent meeting of senior officers of the   ( ) with top airlines' officials in Delhi. The airlines' officials were told to strictly follow the hand baggage regulations and restrict the number of bags people carry in cabins.
 
 Manjit Singh, the public relations officer of the CISF, told TOI over phone from Delhi, “A meeting was convened on the issue and things were discussed.“
 
 Officials in the airlines claimed that they did adhere to the hand baggage regulations laid down by the   (BSAS), but admitted they needed to be stricter in the Pune airport.
 
 “Pune is a high security airport and belongs to the defence. Almost all the time, the CISF is on a high alert here to deal with any kind of security threats. Moreover, the facility is small and air traffic is big.Things tend to go a little awry at times due to the rush in the morning and evening peak hours. Though we strictly follow the hand baggage regulations laid down, special care needs to be taken to ease problems of both the airlines and the CISF at the Pune airport. We shall be acting on the directions given by our headquarters,“ an airline official told TOI.
 
 The Pune airport has seen a growth of 23% in 2015-16.
 
 The total footfall in the air port stood at 52.53 lakh.
 
 At present, it handles 142 scheduled flight movements. As many as 16 new flights of different airli nes are waiting for slots.
 
 An airport official sa id, “There are five X-ray id, “There are five X-ray scanning machines in the security check-in area and all of them are in use. A crucial morning slot between 8am and 10.30am remains out of bo unds for all civilian flights to enable the   (IAF) carry out daily flying exercises. Similarly , there are undeclared restrictions during the evening hours. With civilian flights not in operations during the said hours, the rush is sudden and sometimes it gets very difficult to handle things. If the airlines strictly ensure one hand baggage per passenger, things can get faster at the security check-in area and passengers will not face hassles.“
 
 A source said, “One can often see security personnel stopping passengers from carrying more than one hand baggage. This generally results in arguments and precious time is wasted. If the airlines ensure the norm is followed properly , the check-in procedure would be much smoother.“
 
 The Lohegaon airport is a part of the IAF's strategically vital base for two squadrons of its frontline multi-role combat aircraft Sukhoi 30 Mk-I.
 
 The runway and the air traffic control are controlled by the Air Force Station and the civil enclave is managed by the AAI.
 
