 Babu, a young singer from Chennai, who has sung for some popular composers from the Tamil, Telugu and   film industries, gave   audiences two other foot-tapping numbers in Magalir Mattum. She says it was a first-time experience to try out two songs like that in the film and credits the composer, Ghibran, for giving her the confidence to sing them. “Both the songs — Karu Karunnu and Carrot Pottazhaga — portray the flashbacks of Bhanupriya ma’am and   ma’am, respectively. Both the songs are very different from each other in terms of the voice or the expressions I used. I haven’t sung these type of songs before and this was a completely different experience. I thank   sir for making me sing them. He helped me a lot with expressions and experimenting different voices for the same song. If you notice, I have used two or three different voices in one song. I couldn’t believe it myself that I sang those songs until I saw my name on the cover of the CD. It was an amazing experience,” she shares.

 Now, the young singer has turned a music teacher as well. She has opened a music school in the city. Ask her how did that idea come up and she replies, “ Being a music teacher is a great feeling. I love teaching. What better joy than sharing your knowledge with others who come to you? The idea of starting a music school came to my mind when people started asking me about good music classes in and around Anna Nagar. That’s when I thought why not start one myself. Also, my music teachers have been a great source of inspiration for me to start a school. I am grateful to music directors Ghibran and Srikanth Deva who turned up for its inauguration recently, in spite of their busy schedules.” 
 
 So, how does she manage college, singing, teaching and doing live shows? “(laughs) I am a BCom final-year student at Stella Maris College. I’m in the evening shift. So, I get time for recordings in the morning or after college. And when I have shows, I bunk college. And I take classes on the weekends. I teach western classical. I also take online classes which I can do it from home. So that’s easy,” she says. 
 
