When they say the stars descended on the Oscars red carpet, they meant it literally. Because given the gold, silver, metallics, sequins, shimmer and shine on display, seems like the dress code for Hollywood’s biggest night read: Something sparkly. Sparkle is a favourite of the celeb set – be it the red carpet, movie promos or screenings and everyday wear. 

 
 
 Designer Monisha Jaising says that a shiny lower can become an everyday style. “The best way to adapt it to a day look would be to style it with a casual tee and white sneakers,” she says. With most high street brands offering a range of metallic skirts and pants, it’s affordable too. Fashion stylist and wardrobe consultant Jaanvi Chowhan advises pairing a metallic tulle skirt in gold and silver with a white shirt for a cool day or even work look. The key is not to over accessorise this look. Chowhan says, “Keep the accessories minimal, with maybe just a pair of solitaires or hoops for the evening. For the day, just carry a neutral bag, with basic strappy heels or flats.” Jaising adds, “For daywear, one can pair the look with a gold watch, sunglasses and a black shoulder bag. To edge up your outfit, add a black leather jacket.”
 
 
 
 The glitter glam is a favourite of the Indian swish set with   being its unofficial poster girl. She wore gold for her movie XXX India premiere, black and gold for a recent birthday party and a Monique Lhuillier black and gold gown for the Oscars after-party. Jaising is all for the look but only if it’s dressed down. The outfit should be the showstopper and the statement. Chowhan’s word of advice: don’t be chicken. Be experimental. “It may appear too loud and garish to you but you never know what works for you unless you try it,” she adds. Take that style risk – and it will pay in gold. 
 
  
  
 
 
 No one loves the black and gold look as much as Deepika Padukone. The Monique Lhuillier gown that she donned for the Oscars after-party was made the highlight by keeping the makeup and hair subtle
 
 
 
 Disha Patani wore the gold maxi skirt. Her look was simple with the skirt being the only statement piece
 
 
 
 Wearing the it look – the pleated skirt, Huma Qureishi made it a day look simply by a change of metal hue
 
 
 
 A gold suit anyone? Diana Penty shows us how to go for gold without getting overwhelmed
 
