GURUGRAM: Students of private schools across Gurgaon may be looking ahead at an early summer break, but for students at government schools, summer vacation is still far away. 

 A number of private schools, namely Shiv Nadar, Matrikiran, Suncity and DPS Sushant Lok, have already announced their summer break schedule. Government schools, though, are still awaiting direction from the education department. 
 
 Gurgaon has 572 government schools. Officials told TOI they have standing guidelines from the education department to close for summer on June 1. If the department were to revise the schedule, schools would be informed of it. 
 
 Several parents spoke to TOI and expressed worry that the scorching heat would soon start taking a toll on the health of children, if schools planned to continue till month-end. They said private schools had taken the right decision to announce summer vacations now. “I think government schools must announce the summer break now,” said  , a parent who didn’t give her last name. “There was some talk that the break would be brought ahead, but we have no idea what happened to this, and what the government position on this is.”
 
 Parents also believe temperatures have been way above normal this year, giving rise to health-related problems in many kids. 
 
 When TOI spoke to the district elementary education officer, Ram Kumar  , he said, “We haven’t taken a decision on rescheduling the summer break for schools. It was through some newspaper reports that I got to know the break might be announced from May 23. But so far, there is no formal order from the education department.” 
 
 Phalaswal added the government would set up summer camps in Sector 4 and 5 during the vacation. 
 
 Gurgaon district education officer   said the department already had orders outlining the school calendar, in which summer break was to commence on June 1, and continue to June 30. 
 
 However,  , principal of the Bhim Nagar Government Girls Senior Section School, said, “Officials who supply food for midday meals to our school told us on May 15 that food would be supplied till May 22. So, I strongly feel vacations will start from May 23.”
 
 
