MUMBAI: After disrupting mobile tariffs in September,   trained his guns on the multi-billion-dollar phone handset market on Friday as he announced the launch of ' ', a device he termed as 'effectively free' since it will come for a refundable price of Rs 1,500. Unlimited voice and data for Rs 153 monthly are part of the package.

 On Ambani's radar are the 50 crore consumers already using feature phones in the country, apart from the over 10 crore that buy new feature phones every year.
 
 “Today, Jio is going to reinvent the conventional feature phone. With a revolutionary device, an unmatched Indian innovation, Made in India, by young Indians and for all Indi ans... Let me introduce India ka Intelligent SmartPhone -Jio Phone,“ Ambani said amid applause by shareholders at  's 40th AGM.
 
 Ambani's daughter Isha and son Akash, who have been instrumental in the launch of Jio, also made presentations on the new device before the shareholders. The company, which started with free services initially, has garnered 10 crore paid subscribers since its launch. 
 
 The Jio Phone, which will have a 2.4-inch screen, 512 MB RAM and 4GB memory, promises to deliver many of Jio's key services. For those who upgrade to a monthly tariff of Rs 309, the device will come with an option for connectivity and transmission to television, acting as a provider of cable TV (though per day video usage could be around 3-4 hours).
 
 The phone is being sourced from multiple vendors and Ambani said it would be available for testing from August 15, and for pre-booking from August 24.“Jio Phone will be physically available to those who have prebooked, on a first come first serve basis, September onwards... And from the last quarter of this year, all phones will be made in India. We are targeting to have 50 lakh   available every week,“ the Reliance chairman said.
 
 Analysts say the latest onslaught by Jio could be disruptive once again as there is a lot of scope for introducing new subscribers to the world of data. Also, with Jio taking Rs 1,500 as upfront cost for the device (which is refundable after three years) and a monthly tariff of Rs 153, the company will make enough money per subscriber to justify the aggressive posturing.
 
 “The average revenue per subscriber (ARPU) is around Rs 150 in India and thus Jio seems to be placed safely here,“ an analyst said.
 
 Ambani said the phone would be available for an “effective price“ of zero. “Yes, you have heard it right...for an effective price of Rs 0!... We know that anything free can potentially be misused. To protect against misuse of the free Jio Phone offer, we plan to collect a fully refundable, one-time, security deposit of Rs 1,500 with every JioPhone.“
 
 Jaipal Singh from IDC said around 60% of feature phones are currently sold in the Rs 1,000-2,000 category and a subscriber here spends around Rs 120 per month. “This is a ripe market for Jio.“
 
 The rest of the market is below Rs 1,000 and spends only around Rs 30-40. “This will be difficult to convert and the company may also need to spend time and energy to make them understand the used cases.“
 
 Ambani, however, sounded confident. “Digital life will no longer be the privilege of the affluent few,“ he said.
 
