MANALI: Hoteliers in the tribal Lahaul valley are having sleepless nights over abysmal tourist inflow. Not a single tourist could reach the valley this season after the   (NGT) order to regulate tourism on Rohtang which is taking its toll on tourism in Lahaul.

 Hoteliers blame that the Manali-Rohtang-Lahaul road was opened after clearing snow on April 23 but the Kullu administration is not allowing tourists to come to their district. They held a series of meetings with high officials of Lahaul and Kullu, and added Lahaul remains snow-bound for six months a year and hotels remain open for a maximum of 5 months when the valley is connected by road to Manali. The hotels were ready to welcome tourists by April end but not a single room is occupied. 
 
 All tourist vehicles visiting Lahaul are required to obtain permit online. Those who don’t have it are not allowed to go towards Rohtang pass and those who have permit for Lahaul cannot come back to Manali from Rohtang. Separate permits are issued to visit Rohtang and but tourists cannot go to Lahaul on these permits. As the Kullu administration has not started issuing permit to Rohtang or Lahaul, tourists are not allowed to move beyond check post at   near Manali where permits are checked.
 
  Association general secretary Tashi Barongpa said a large number of new hotels and camp sites have come up in recent time but non-cooperation by the Kullu administration is a worrying factor.“Hotels in   are fully occupied these days except ours. We are eagerly waiting for the first tourist to arrive,” he said.
 
 Hoteliers blame that a large number of tourists trying for a permit to visit Lahaul are being denied.   president   said, “We are getting phone calls from tourists who are desperate to to come to Lahaul. We are helpless and can’t help them. Local vehicles at Lahaul are allowed to use the road but tourists deprived.” 
 
 Sissu, Keylong, Jispa, Udaipur, Triloknath, Tandi and Miyar are the hotspots in Lahaul but no tourist could reach these destinations this year. Hoteliers, who blame that the NGT order was meant for Rohtang and not for Lahaul, will again meet Kullu deputy commissioner on Thursday. They said it’s the govermnment’s responsibility to comply with the NGT order but Lahaul residents should not be affected.
 
