

 Why, ask some members of the liberal western press, is everyone obsessed with Emmanuel Macron’s marriage? So what if  , the French presidential candidate’s wife, has a 25-year lead on him?
 
 Such a great separation in spousal ages shouldn’t be scandalous in the West. After all, even urban, middle-class India isn’t raising eyebrows these days. Older wives aren’t as commonplace as older husbands, of course, but if love and compatibility are present, couples are not letting birth certificates come in the way.
 
 “Ours was a courtship like any other,” says Kalpana K (not her real name), a fashion designer who is 12 years older than her husband. “We were nervous about the age difference only when we decided to talk to our parents about marriage.” They finally decided to conceal her age from his conservative parents. “They know I am older than him, but not by how many years,” says Kalpana. They’ve been married four years. If the marriage breaks up, she is sure people will attribute it to their age. “But if it’s successful, that fact will be conveniently ignored,” she points out.
 
 The confidence, maturity and stability of older women are often draws for men, found Susan Winter and Felicia Briggs in a survey about the ‘Mrs Robinson syndrome’ in a book called ‘Older Women, Younger Men: New Options for Love and Romance’.
 
 “She was a beautiful person, and we shared a common interest in music,” says Rahul S, a 21-year-old data miner who fell in love with a 29-year-old researcher with a place of her own and a marriage behind her. “I was surprised she agreed to date me. Women her age typically want someone well settled,” Rahul says.
 
 Rahul’s parents were initially taken aback, but soon accepted the relationship. “We couldn’t risk losing our son,” explained Rahul’s mother, who knew no persuasion or prohibition would deter him. My grandmother tried hard to get me to break off,” said Rahul, “There’s a perception among older people, fuelled by patriarchy, that a man should enjoy his woman for as long as she is young. Our culture doesn’t look at the woman as an individual, but as a body to sexually satisfy and reproduce,” says Rahul testily.
 
 In India, it has been a near-universal practice born of hypergamy, that women marry older men (ergo an income-earner) to guarantee her security. Professor Mary E John, Senior Fellow at the Centre for Women’s Development Studies in Delhi, reminds us that women’s dependence on marriage stems from their lack of social and economic agency, a disadvantage still prevalent. “Traditional marriage structures in other parts of the world broke down during the 19th century because of industrialisation, urbanisation and a growing wage labour force, which equipped women to become independent. But in India, only a small number of women have the social and economic capital to make their own choices,” says Professor John.
 
 So this new marriage dynamic, then, is limited to a sliver of urban, privileged Indian society, where women going against the grain don’t need marriage for economic stability. “You need a structured inequality to make marriage work. When it’s equal -- both partners are of the same age, same education, earning the same salary, you’re already looking at some kind of trouble from a conventional point of view. And when you have older women marrying younger men, it’s an inversion of this social structure,” she points out.
 
 Some couples are immune to the abrasions of society, others seek professional help. Women who’ve been traumatised by taunts of crib-stealing, and men, who worry about the Oedipal Complex, seek counsellors. They also come when they believe their age-gap is at the root of their growing differences. Clinical psychologist Varkha Chulani says she helps them build emotional muscle. “I counsel them to go the extra mile to close the gaps in their outlook and ideology,” she says. Some women, who look noticeably older, “try plastic surgery or Botox, dress younger, or ask their partners to dress ‘up’, grow a beard, and other such cosmetic subterfuges,” Chulani says.
 
 It has also been argued that their biological and hormonal differences could have other consequences. An older woman’s energy levels and sexual appetite may not be level with her husband’s, some studies show. Others discount this, saying as lifestyles change, these dissonances are disappearing. The problem, says Kalpana, is that any difference is viewed through the ‘age’ lens. “When we differ in opinion, you tend to think, ‘He’s younger, I’m older and perhaps more scared and reserved’. But a difference in age can also be a complementing thing,” she believes. “He can be more robust and adventurous in some areas, while I may be more cautious and reserved in others. But if both partners acknowledge and accommodate the difference, age can be viewed for what it is — just a number.”
 
