NEW DELHI: The Indian Mission in Turkey is trying for early repatriation of the bodies of   producer Abis Hasan Rizvi and Khushi Shah from Gujarat who were among 39 people killed in the Istanbul terror attack.
 
  External Affairs Minister   had informed through tweets that her ministry was arranging visas for Rizvi’s parents to visit Turkey.
  
  “I have just spoken to Mr Akhtar Hassan Rizvi and   in Turkey. Indian Ambassador   has made all arrangements for them. They r returning with mortal remains by Turkish airlines flight leaving Istanbul tommw night and reach Mumbai next morning,” Swaraj said in a tweet.
  
  She also said that Indian Ambassador to Turkey Rahul Kulshreshth was in touch with the authorities in Istanbul and with the family of victims.
  
  External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Vikas Swarup said Rizvi and Shah had gone to Istanbul as tourists and they “happened to be at the wrong place at the wrong time”.
  
  Rizvi was the chief executive of Rizvi Builders and son of former Rajya Sabha member Akhtar Hasan Rizvi. He had produced a Bollywood movie: ‘Roar: Tigers Of The Sundarbans’. Famous among the celebrity circles of Mumbai, he played a vital role in the running of Rizvi College located at Bandra. His younger brother, Saquib Rizvi, had died in an   in 2010.
  
  According to close relatives of Rizvi, the 45-year-old businessman went to Istanbul a few days ago to celebrate New Year with friends. Nora Fatehi, who acted in the film Roar, tweeted: “Abis Rizvi a good friend and also the producer of my first film #roar has died last night in the club shooting in Turkey. I am shocked”. His father, a close associate of NCP chief  , is famous also for his charity work.
  
  Khushi Shah has made it big as a fashion designer in Mumbai. Hailing from Vadodara, Khushi’s father,  , has a chemical business. She had presented her collection at the FDCI Wills Lifestyle Fashion Week in 2012. She ran an exclusive fashion store and business in Mumbai and designed clothes for several Bollywood stars. 
