HYDERABAD: Less than a week after Telangana director general of police (DGP)   announced that the investigation in the Eamcet-II question paper leak case was on the verge of being completed, a key accused died in police custody under suspicious circumstances. While the accused died on January 3, his death came to light only after his family took the body to their native place in Bihar.

 Kamlesh Kumar Singh, 55, an advocate from Club Road in Arrah town of Bhojpur district, Bihar, was arrested by   (CID) detectives of Telangana from Kotwali area of Patna on December 20 in the Eamcet-II 2016 (medical) entrance examination question paper leak case. Another accused Sanjay Singh, 39, of Saharsa district, was also arrested along with him. Mithilesh alias baba was also arrested later.
 
 Kamlesh was brought to Hyderabad on a prisoner transit warrant on December 28 and CID detectives took him into custody on December 31 for interrogation. “ At 11.45am on January 1, Kamlesh complained of chest pain and he was immediately sent to the nearby   for treatment. Doctors there advised police to shift him to the Osmania Hospital on the same day . After being shifted, Kamlesh died at 4.20pm on December 3. Doctors said he died of a heart attack,“ CID inspectorgeneral (IG) Soumya Mishra said on Thursday .
 
 the CID lodged a complaint at the   and a custodial death case was registered under section 176 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). “The sub-divisional executive magistrate (RDO), Nampally , conducted an inquest in the presence of Kamlesh's son-in-law and nephew.All the formalities required as per the NHRC guidelines were observed,“ the IG said. The post-mortem examination by a team of doctors was videographed and the body was handed over to the family members, who headed to Patna by air on Wednesday .
 
 CID IG Soumya Mishra said Kamlesh`s death was no secret and blamed his ill health for his demise. Mishra said, “So far 53 persons have been arrested in the case and the media has not been told about all arrests.In addition to Kamlesh, we ar rested three more accused from Bihar and they are currently in police custody,“ the IG told TOI. The CID confirmed that Kamlesh was allegedly coordinating between organisers holding special camps for students at six different places across the country . At these camps, students who paid money were trained in answers to the leaked questions. “Kamlesh confessed to having shared leaked question paper with the organisers of special camps across the country ,“ a CID official said.
 
 The CID is yet to arrest the main accused, who stole the question paper from a printing press. “We are yet to identify the main accused,“ the IG told TOI.
 
