KOCHI: A   has no power to issue an order asking businesses in his jurisdiction, such as restaurants, to close down by midnight, the   has held. There is no law that allows the SI to issue such an order and there is no stipulation in the licence issued by authorities that a restaurant should close at night, the court said.

 The ruling was given by a division bench of the court after considering a petition filed by R Ravikumar, proprietor of   at Kavanad near Sakthikulangara challenging an order issued by the sub inspector of Sakthikulangara police station asking him to close down business by 11pm. It was alleged by the SI that thieves and anti-social elements camp near Kavanad junction at midnight and odd hours and that thefts and attempted thefts are rampant in the area.
 
 Ruling that the SI's order is illegal and violates the fundamental right of the restaurant owner to conduct a business, the court said in the judgment, "Running of a hotel is not detrimental to the interests of the public. On the other hand, it caters to the needs of the general public. There is no case for the fifth respondent (SI) that the petitioner committed any offence. No crime is registered against him. That anti-social elements used to visit the hotel is not a ground to direct the owner of a hotel to close down the hotel after 11 p.m. That offences are being committed in the locality by anti-social elements is also not a ground to stop the running of the hotel after 11 p.m. If any offence is committed by any person, it is for the police to investigate and apprehend the accused."
 
 The court said: "The police can also prevent commission of offences. So long as the first respondent has no case that the petitioner has committed any offence or that any conspiracy to commit any offence took place in the hotel premises, he was not justified in preventing the petitioner from running the hotel during permitted hours."
 
 While questioning the SI's order, the restaurant owner had pointed out that he is running the business after obtaining licences from corporation of Kollam and  . The hotel is situated at a place where business activities related to fishing take place even at midnight. Boats go out to sea during midnight and early morning for fishing and the restaurant operates 24 hours a day, the court was told.
 
 In the judgment, the court said only the district police chief has the power to impose temporary restrictions on the constitutional right to carry on a business as per Kerala Police Act. Even then, what is fundamental is the freedom or the right and not the authority's power to impose reasonable restrictions, the judgment said.
 
