MYSURU: Theatre in Karnataka is not focusing on   instead is obsessed with visual details which doesn’t bode well for the growth of the   and society, felt experts. They also warned theatre troupes to keep their distance from the powers- that-be and MNCs as theatre is not a medium for publicity but for creating awareness.

 Launching the meet on democracy and theatre hosted by Rangayana as part of the winter   here on Saturday, poet and playwright H S Shivaprakash said: “Theatre is focusing more on techniques and becoming a visual extravaganza. It has become more of a sound and light show. This shift from people-centric to technology-centric is not a good development. Theatre essentially should speak about people’s issues and highlight them.”
 
 Arguing that there are efforts to privatize cultural space, Shivaprakash said the messages theatre conveys should be more crucial than the visual treat it extends to the audience. Physical infrastructure is not important for theatre but people’s issues are, he stated. Things which our elections, political parties and legislatures have not been able to achieve, theatre can, he stated.
 
 Shivaprakash, who headed the Tagore Centre at Berlin, which is attached to Indian Council for Cultural Relations, tracked the growth of theatre movement in Karnataka and argued that theatre personalities in 1980s drifted close to powers- -that be. “This became a tool for publicity rather than collective expression against injustices. Though theatre has been trying to become a movement since the 1980s, it has not succeeded, he claimed asking theatre personalities and troupes to stay away from MNCs and protect their freedom.
 
 He referred to productions of the premier Delhi-based National School of Drama (NSD) during Atal Bihari Vajyapee’s regime and said they were based on Indian epics, Ramayana and Mahabaratha. “I’m not against the epics but NDS productions were restricted. It should not happen,” he stated.
 
 Cultural theorist K Y Narayanaswamy said theatre activities in Karnataka are vibrant but the message that is delivered is not so relevant. “It is falling behind in completing its cultural expectation,” he stated. He said the message through a play should be society-oriented like recent issues of attack on women. Theatre artistes and directors are concentrating on presentation and not on the message and for whom it is intended, he stated. Theatre personality Prakash Garuda and Kannada and culture director K A Dayanand were present.
 
 
