Nagpur: A 38-year-old man, identified as Nisar Ahmed, has been arrested by Kotwali police on Wednesday after registering an offence of abetment to commit suicide against him holding responsible for wife Nasreen’s drastic step to end life at her residence at Dasra road on June 25. Ahmed, after being produced before court on Thursday, has been remanded to police custody till July 23. 

 In yet another development, Jaripatka police have submitted it’s say opposing the Ad-interim bail granted by the district and sessions court, also on Thursday, in the suicide case of gym-trainer James Joseph who had ended life on April 25 after being allegedly thrashed by constable Ajay Madavi after being prompted by his colleague and friend constable Bridgette James. Jaripatka police have booked Madavi, his colleague and friend Bridgette James and her mother Jyoti James. 
 
 Despite registering offence, Jaripatka police refrained from taking Madavi, Bridgette and her mother Jyoti into custody even when there were crucial recoveries to be made including the mobile phone of the deceased. Allowed the long rope, the accused could manage to approach court which granted them Ad-interim respite. 
 
 In the latest case, city police, however, have set a different standard while dealing with the similar kind of matter. Ahmed, husband of the deceased woman, was promptly arrested by Kotwali police. Initially, police had filed the case as accidental death after Nasreen had hanged herself with the rope of the cradle. The couple, married in 2004, had three children. Earlier, Kotwali police had recorded the case of accidental death on the basis of the complaint filed by Ahmed where he had claimed that his wife had ended life as she suspected him of having an extra-marital affair. Ahmed has a shop selling coolers at Cotton market.
 
 Sources from Kotwali police said that an offence was registered against Ahmed following a complaint from a kin of his wife Nasreen. Nasreen’s family has also claimed that Ahmed had been harassing her for bringing money from her parents.
 
 
