THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister   said the Union government was not releasing funds under various centrally-sponsored schemes, including MGNREGS, despite the state fulfilling mandatory requirements for securing the funds.

 The chief minister, while replying to the charges levelled by the opposition, said that the state had provided utilisation certificates for the funds it had spent under programmes like Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, but the   was yet to release funds. Opposition members had said that the callous attitude of the state was the reason for not getting eligible funds from the Centre.
 
 Vijayan added that the Centre was trying to impose schemes that are not suitable for Kerala and releasing funds only on the basis of progress achieved in
 
  such programmes. In addition, the state is being denied funds for projects in sectors where Kerala has made huge progress like health and social welfare.
 
 The chief minister said that while the state was eligible to get Rs 2,426 crore under MGNREGS scheme last year (of which Rs 2,144 crore was the wage component alone), the Centre only released Rs 1,582 crore.
 
 Seeking leave for adjournment motion, MLA K Muraleedharan MLA said that the state had not spent funds that were provided under 45 different schemes by the Centre in 2016-17. These included schemes for girl children and SC/ST communities, Muraleedharan said. He cited that the one of the main handicap was the lack of coordination among officials who are supposed to liaise with the Centre at   in New Delhi.
 
 Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said that while the state’s share from central earnings from taxes have been increased by 10% on the recommendation of the finance commission, the Centre is compensating this higher disbursal by denying funds for various schemes. To address the state’s immediate requirements, he suggested that the state should utilize funds from the maintenance funds of local bodies for providing relief to MGNREGS employees and later reimburse the amount when the Centre released funds.
 
 The chief minister said that the government will explore such possibilities. Even though speaker   denied the leave for adjournment motion based on chief minister’s explanation, the opposition did not stage a walk-out.
 
 
