VISAKHAPATNAM: Even though Holi is on Monday, enthusiastic Vizagites already began the celebrations with colours on Sunday. The vibrancy was noticed in various colonies, apartmen -rooftops and along the  .

 However, in what can be labelled as a positive trend this year, there seems an increase in awareness about using organic or herbal colours rather than harmful chemical-based dyes, thanks to constant campaigns by NGOs and awareness generated on social media.
 
 This year, the demand was more for organic colours and unlike previous years, many people avoided the popular metallic golden, black and silver colours. Denizens mostly played with green, yellow and the traditional pink ‘gulal’. 
 
 NC Mohan, proprietor of Karachiwala Departmental Store, said, “This year we find a greater demand for natural colours. More and more people are asking only for organic colours, which shows that they are aware about the ill-effects of chemical colours. We have therefore stocked up only on non-synthetic colours brought from Raipur with each packet costing Rs 25.”
 
  from NGO Trendsetters pointed out that this awareness has to do with online posts. “NGOs and health-conscious organisations are putting up videos highlighting the harmful impact of toxic chemical colours used for playing Holi. Experts have been cautioning how chemical colours are causing allergy, skin, eye and bronchial irritation. There are also posts and images requesting public not to throw toxic colours on animals, which also carries a positive message.”
 
 Even though there’s no guarantee that the so-called herbal or organic colours would be completely safe as there’s no monitoring on what goes into the making of these products, but still these are considered a better option than the toxic chemical dyes. “Since these organic colours are considered less harmful than chemical colours, we have switched to using organic colours only and not encouraging my kids to play with the silver and black dyes. We also purchased the colours from reliable where they sell organic colours and not from any street-side vendors,” said P Vijayalakshmi, a resident of Lawson’s  .
 
 A research conducted by the   (IICT) has found that almost all synthetic colours used during Holi are toxic industrial products that can lead to various ailments such as skin allergy, rashes, asthma, breathlessness, temporary or particle blindness, kidney problems and so on besides polluting the environment. The chemicals used for manufacturing the colours are metals and their salts, industrial dyes and inert material base. Some of these include lead, mercury, copper, aluminium, chromium, silica and asbestos powder. For instance, silver colour contains carcinogenic aluminium bromide, black contains lead oxide, chemical red colour consists of mercuric sulphide and chemical green colour contains copper sulphate that often causes allergy and eye irritation.
 
 Meanwhile, along with the colours, colourful and innovative pichkaris such as those that can shoot 111 colour-filled balloons at one go are also on demand. The pichkaris cost anything between Rs 100 and Rs 200 and have motifs of Angry Birds, Chhota Bheem, Minions and super heroes on them, which are a favourite pick especially for children.
 
