 

 Excerpts
 
 
 
 
 Amar Singh is beeta sapna. The dream is over. There's no need to remember it. Five years ago when   proposed Akhilesh for CM, I said then that I would act as a bridge between father and son... My priority was to save the party , election symbol and the father-son relationship. I took long (to sort out things), but con vinced Netaji he should release the party manifesto. The family feud will have no impact on polls.SP workers and voters want that the party shouldn't split. Haan, do-chaar din Ganga sookh gayi to geedar paar kar gaye thhe, phir Ganga me pani aa gaya. (Yes, the Ganga dried up a few days, jackals crossed the river, but water flows in the Ganga again).
 
 
 
 
 Akhilesh as an MP learnt everything from his father. He received training from the same house and his real `ustad' is MSY. Akhilesh is part Mulayam, part himself, he has the vision of a learned man.
 
 
 She's given less tickets to Mus lims though they made her CM four times. She should have given 403 tickets to Muslims. Someone told me 403 was a very high number, I said she should at least have given 303 tickets. If she does this, I'll immediately join BSP.Similarly, if BJP makes me PM, I'll become part of BJP.
 
 
 
 
 We don't calculate benefit or loss, but focus on stopping the enemy . The PM and Sadhvi Prachi make such abusive remarks.The BJP has crossed all limits.To stop them, we have formed this alliance. This alliance isn't for 2017 but for LS elections 2019, it'll continue. Like-minded people should come under one platform to defeat the BJP.
 
 
 
 Congress has only banks, no vote bank. They have few in their ranks who can help their own candidates. Our vote bank will be transferred to them. If Congress has a vote bank at all, we'll get it; if not, we won't.
 
 
 
 Why only illegal abattoirs and not legal slaughterhouses? People earn their livelihood from both illegal and legal slaughtering of animals. After Modi became PM, beef export has gone up 2.5 times. One of the biggest exporters is a Jain and not Muslim. The owner of the firm is close to Modi. If a ban on beef export is imposed, cow slaughter will stop automatically.
 
 
 
 
 Pehla panja to bhari hi parna chahiye. Mare hue se lade toh kya lade (The first strike should be strong, no point in fighting the dead). Nawab cries every day that Abdullah is underage. He's scared.Abdullah is 26 and well-qualified to contest. As the Supreme Court has issued guidelines saying high school certificates cannot be accepted, we provided a birth certificate from the hospital where he was born. That should be enough to prove his age.
 
 
 
 
 Your take on the Y-generation netas... Have you noticed the demand for me? There's huge excitement for me. If you do good work, you draw crowds. When I was campaigning in Nalapar locality of Rampur on Monday , I thought I'd die. I jumped from the stage and entered a house. The women in that house couldn't understand what was going on. I told them about the crush of that crowd that wanted to meet me.
 
