NEW DELHI: The killing of senior   leader   in Jammu & Kashmir last week followed a specific tip-off from PoK-based terrorists of the same outfit. The information regarding Najar’s plans to return to Kashmir from Pak occupied Kashmir, including the exact route he would take through the mountainous terrain, was leaked to J&K police a few days before the forces intercepted him at the LoC and shot him dead.

 Though the date of his return was not revealed in the tip-off sent out via social media, the J&K police were told the route by which he would return to the valley from the north Kashmir side. The J&K police passed on the inputs to the  , which mounted a round-the-clock vigil on the suggested route. Najar was subsequently killed while trying to infiltrate across the LoC in Uri sector.
 
 Intelligence agencies here claimed Pakistan had been doubting Najar’s loyalty ever since he fell out with his PoK-based Hizbul Mujahideen handlers in 2015 and floated his own outfit Lashker-e-Islam. It was during this independent stint that Najar carried out attacks on mobile towers and personnel linked to cellphone companies in the Valley.
 
 However, after working on his own for a few months, Najar and Hizbul Mujahideen leaders, for reasons still steeped in mystery, buried their differences. Soon after, he decided to cross over to PoK and had been staying there since. It is believed that he was camping in PoK to hold secret talks with Hizbul Mujahideen chief  .
 
 According to sources, Salahuddin is said to have persuaded Najar to return to his homeland to take charge of Hizbul Mujahideen after its top commanders—Burhan Wani, Sabzar Ahmed and Yasin Itoo — were killed one after the other in counter-terror operations by the Indian forces. “But this seems to have been a ploy because the same group informed police about his return,” claimed an intelligence operative.
 
 Hailing from Sopore, Najar joined militancy as an over ground worker (OGW) of Hizbul in 1992 at the age of 16. He initially transported weapons and provided lodging facilities for militants. Najar was arrested in 1994 but released later. He re-joined active militancy in 1999.
 
 Najar (43) was the longest surviving terrorist in the valley and was categorised as an A++ militant. He reportedly married the sister of a slain militant before crossing over to Pakistan in 2015.
 
