After being one of the prime role-players in the UP pre-election drama, politician   seems to be taking out some time for himself, away from his political engagements. He was the star guest at the wedding ceremony of Nayana Raheja, daughter of Nirmal and  , with  , son of Lali and  . Amar Singh came to bless the couple and spent a few hours at the venue, a farmhouse in Chattarpur. As soon as he entered, he was surrounded by guests. He made his way out without engaging in long discussions, taking a walk around at the venue as security guards walked behind him. Salman Khurshid was another political guest at the wedding.

  
  (L-R) Amar Singh, Salman Khurshid and   (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
  
  CHIEF GUEST: Navin and Nirmal Raheja, the bride’s parents, welcome the groom(BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
  
  Nayan Raheja (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
  
 Jai’s baraat wasn’t the usual one with ghodi, band and dhol. Here, the baraatis came dancing to the tunes of the DJ who led the procession belting out Bollywood numbers like 'Gallan Goodiyan' and 'Nachde Ne Saare'. The groom made his entry with his friends and was given a formal welcome with the tilak by the bride’s mother. Friends and family members from the bride’s and groom’s family wore badges which said ‘ladkiwale’ and ‘ladkewale’, respectively. A vintage car parked right at the entrance was quite an attraction. Guests, including foreigners, wanted to take a better look it and click pictures with it before entering the venue for the ceremonies.
 
  
  (L-R) Lali Singhania and Arvind Singhania
 
 
 
 
  
  (L-R) Ravi Bajaj, Gaurav Dalmia and   (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
  
  (L- R) Amir Raza Pasrich, Mohit Gujral and Gudmundur Eiriksson (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
 
 
  
  HAPPY BARAATIS: Sneha and Aayush Singhania( BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
  
  (L-R) Neva Jain and   (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam) 
 
 
  
  Puneet and Avantika Dalmia (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 Since it was a day wedding, guests chose subtle and muted shades over traditional wedding colours like red and maroon. Fashion designer Anju Modi was one of the guests at the wedding and was seen wearing a 'wool knit sari' "It is a wool knit sari which is perfect for winter, but since it is white and black, I have draped a Banarasi dupatta over it which looks like a part of the sari," said Anju, adding, "This is ghar ki shaadi for me so I had to come. I wasn’t in the country and returned only two days back." Guests from abroad wore traditional safas and the women chose saris or lehengas. One of the guests, Beata, a stylist from London, told us, "This is my first trip to India and I really wanted to attend a wedding here, so I came with a friend. I looked out for bangles, maang tikka and other traditional jewellery to just attend this function. This is going to be the best part of my India visit."
 
 
