PUNE: The Army on Thursday justified its stance on the   issue while blaming the   for not honouring its commitment of constructing an underpass on   in lieu of the land given for the flyover project.

 The underpass was to link MH-CTC and the new Command Hospital. TOI had reported on Wednesday that the Army had stalled the construction work. 
 
 In a statement issued by defence public relations officer on Thursday, the Army has given reference of a meeting held on April 21, 2016, between defence minister   and Pune municipal commissioner Kunal Kumar and chief engineer Srinivas Bonala in which it was decided that the municipal corporation will complete the tendering process for the underpass within three months and construct it along with the flyover. 
 
 “The simultaneous construction of the underpass with the flyover is important to ensure minimum disruption of traffic on this important arterial road,” the statement said. “The construction is also essential to facilitate unhindered movement of patients and light ambulances between the two hospitals, which would otherwise be severely affected by the increased speed and volume of traffic. The PMC has initiated no action towards the construction of underpass even after a lapse of six months, since the commencement of the construction of the flyover,” the statement added. 
 
 “Unfortunately, even in the past there have been instances where PMC has not honoured its commitments. In the recent case of laying of water pipeline from Fakhri Hill Reservoir, PMC reneged on its commitment to provide additional water to Pune Cantonment/Army, while consistently trying to extract further concessions from the Army. The case resulted in an adverse observation from the consumer court against the PMC,” the statement said 
 
 In a meeting held on Wednesday with local Army authorities, the statement said, the PMC had given a commitment of carrying out the tendering process for the underpass in the first week of March after the model code of conduct is withdrawn.
 
 The Army’s stand is in consonance with directions of the defence minister and the discussions held with PMC officials from time to time. The Army remains committed to mutual cooperation with the PMC for public utility projects as is the case with the rail over bridge at Ghorpadi. It is unfortunate that the PMC has not been complying with the mutually agreed terms and conditions, the statement added.
 
 Municipal commissioner Kunal Kumar said, “The Army is misleading the people and violating orders given by the defence minister. The order from the defence ministry says that the PMC should deposit Rs 1 crore for the work and we are ready to do that. We have given a letter about the same to the Army. There is no link between construction of the flyover and the underpass.”
 
