PUNE: The   on Friday night arrested a school bus driver for allegedly sexually assaulting a four-year-old girl between January 21 and January 23.

 A special court on Saturday remanded the   till February 7. A case of committing an   was registered against the driver under the Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.
 
 The girl's parents reported the incident to the school principal on January 24 and demanded action against the driver. Based on the principal's advice, they lodged a police complaint on Friday night.
 
 The girl's mother had initially noticed a change in her daughter's behaviour a day or so after January 21. She looked anxious and often got agitated when her mother asked her what was wrong.
 
 On January 23, the girl told her mother she was suffering from severe pain as the “bald driver“ had removed her clothes and sexually assaulted her in the rear seat of the bus after school. Referring to the man as uncle, the girl revealed his name.
 
 The mother of the victim stated in the complaint, “The driver had misused the principal's name for committing the act and threatened to lock my daughter in a dark room if she disclosed the sexual abuse to her family .“
 
 The girl and her eight-yearold brother both study in an English-medium school in Kondhwa and travel by the school bus. Their timings were different as the brother studies in Standard II, while the girl is in Kindergarten. The girl boards the bus at 9am and returns home at 12.30pm. There are two women caretakers in the bus to assist the children.
 
 The girl's father, a businessman, told TOI, “Two women attendants were present in the bus, but they were not alert.Had they remained alert, the molestation could have been averted. The sexual abuse was also brought to the notice of my daughter's class teacher, but she was not responsive.“ The complaint also said the girl identified the driver's photo when the principal showed it to her.
 
 Inspector Varsharani Patil (crime) of the Kondhwa police station said there was a delay in registering a complaint because the girl was in a state of shock and did not understand what was happening to her. Patil said, “Since the case was registered late in the night, we first arrested the accused. The girl does not know the registration number of the bus. The school authorities will be questioned to identify the bus on Monday. We shall also tell the school to provide details of the caretakers in the bus.“
 
 The school principal told TOI, “The bus is run by the society that runs the school.Police verification of the driver, who has been working with us for 16 years, was not done, but we were in the process of conducting verification. Two women caretakers were present in the bus but we don't know when the molestation occurred.We want the police to investigate the individual role of the driver and the caretakers in the crime. We suspended the driver and caretakers the day the parents brought the molestation to my notice.“
 
