MUMBAI: Any increase in voter turnout is considered to be a sentiment against the incumbent party, in this case the Shiv Sena, the dominant partner in the ruling Sena-BJP alliance in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation. When the turnout rises by close to 11%, as it has now from the 2012 civic polls, and is the highest in 25 years, it is almost a sure indicator of voters desiring change. 

 Yet, three widely divergent theories started doing the rounds soon after polling for the prestigious   concluded at 5.30pm on Tuesday: One, that Mumbai may have made its choice against the Shiv Sena’s 20-year record in the BMC in favour of the BJP; two, that there may have been a consolidation of Marathi votes in favour of the Sena; and three, that in a straight contest between the Sena and the BJP (with the Congress, NCP and MNS not putting up a bold show), it could be a neck-and-neck battle between the estranged allies, with neither side emerging with a majority but, with 80-95 seats each, coming within striking distance of the magic mark of 114 if they take the help of independents and smaller parties.
 
 While CM Devendra Fadnavis claimed BJP would emerge as the single largest party when the results are out on Thursday, Sena leader Anil Parab said his party would benefit because of the “good work” it had done, and Mumbai Congress chief Sanjay Nirupam said BJP would have to “pay a heavy price” owing to demonetisation.
 
 Fadnavis, who led the BJP campaign in the city and other nine civic bodies in the state, told TOI, “We will emerge as the single largest party. In the post-poll scenario, BJP will be on its own and will not need any alliance. I am confident the BJP’s nominee will be mayor of Mumbai.”
 
 Sena leader Parab said, “We do not think the campaign launched by Fadnavis against Sena (on the issue of transparency) has influenced voters. In view of the Sena’s performance, we expect a clear majority.”
 
 Nirupam said, “Both in the western and eastern suburbs, there was a spurt in the number of voters coming out. We expect they will vote for Congress.’’ 
 
 The Sena’s strong organizational network may be able to see it through in an election where the number of voters in each ward is small and the consolidation of one community’s votes may make all the difference in a first-past-the-post system. However, not only does the Maharashtrian community not vote en bloc for one party, the Sena has also for long been counting on BJP supporters’ votes (mainly non-Marathi) for its overall tally, and those are going to be missing this time round. There is also no emotive issue to rally Marathi voters, unlike the 1985 election when the then CM Vasantdada Patil had handed the BMC to Sena on a platter by remarking that “Mumbai is in Maharashtra, but Maharashtra is nowhere in Mumbai.” The Sena has, no doubt, said the BJP aims to break Maharashtra into pieces, but that has had little resonance on the surface at least: whether there is an undercurrent in Sena’s favour remains to be seen.
 
 Then again, if Mumbaikars are upset with the ill-effects of demonetization, which affected the poor—who come out to vote in large numbers—the most, the BJP could suffer in view of the Sena’s strident attacks on its erstwhile partner. But if Sena benefits, it will be an almost unprecedented situation. Hardly any incumbent has won with the voting percentage jumping by nearly 11 points. The amazingly higher voting percentage this time, especially in Gujarati-dominated areas, has brightened BJP’s hopes.
 
 At the same time, though, a Sena MLA claimed the Sena has succeeded in good measure in keeping intact its Marathi votebank. He said that stung by BJP’s allegations that Matoshree had floated ‘benami’ companies, Marathi-speaking Brahmins from Girgaum, Dadar and Vile Parle have backed Sena candidates. Other Marathi-speaking groups too remained loyal to the Sena, claimed the MLA.
 
 A former bureaucrat said the emotional card played by Uddhav Thackeray would also work. “The Marathi ‘manoos’ rushes into the Sena’s embrace whenever Thackerays talk of Maharashtra’s vivisection. They know Sena may pursue a sectarian agenda, but it is the only party which takes up the Marathi cause,” he said.
 
 A Mumbai BJP leader said his party has succeeded in retaining the affection of the mercantile class. “The Gujarati-Marwari community backed us, especially in the suburbs despite demonetisation,” he said. Also, Sena’s strong-arm tactics compel small traders and entrepreneurs to back BJP, he pointed out.
 
 Interestingly, there are indications the Congress may have made a dent in BJP’s Hindi-speaking votebank. Nirupam gave weightage to Hindi-speaking candidates.
 
 “If the difference in seat tally between Sena and BJP is too narrow, both will try to outdo each other with support from smaller groups. There will be unlikely alliances in BMC. Don't forget that years ago the Sena had teamed up with Muslim League in the corporation,” said a former civil servant.
 
 The Sena faces its toughest challenge since Balasaheb's death in 2012, said political experts. “Our dilemma is how far to accept BJP’s conditions should the two parties put the bitter past behind them and team up again,” said a Sena MLA.
 
 
