NAGPUR: The year of India’s independence, 1947, was a turning point as far as the birth rate and sex ratio of the city is concerned, says an analysis of Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) birth and death data of last 100 years. The birth rate, which was constant till 1947, saw a steep rise after that. The sex ratio too started changing, with more male births as compared to female. This gap has only widened after that.

 The data has been analysed under deputy municipal commissioner Ranjana Lade, with help from private agency  . The agency undertook the task for NMC free of cost as part of their own academic research. The team comprised of agency head Dr Dhananjay Raje, and data analysts Anukriti Sahni and Sheela Shripatre. The team also performed trend analysis on the data, coming up with several interesting findings.
 
 The highest number of deaths in all these years have been recorded in May, with close to 66,000 deaths, closely followed by August. With 52,000 deaths, February recorded the least number of deaths.
 
 General physician Dr SD Suryawanshi said, “Climatic change and epidemic infections are the biggest reason of death. During May, one could observe peak summer causing sunstroke, while in August several infections, including gastroenteritis, are at peak. February is considered the healthiest month, that’s when our OPDs also witness least attendance.”
 
 Another observation was that the number of deaths was around the same for both genders till 1963. After that, the gap started widening with more male deaths compared to female. In 2015, over 15,000 males died as compared to 10,000 females. Dr Suryawanshi said, “It’s relevant because consumption of alcohol and tobacco saw a rise after 60s, where men are the general consumers while female consumers are negligible.”
 
 It was also observed that most deliveries take place on Tuesday, followed by Monday, while the least number of deliveries take place on Sunday. A paediatrician said, “It completely aligns with the fact that these days more deliveries take place in hospital, where doctors doesn’t prefer planned deliveries on Sunday.”
 
 The statistics also show a commendable decline in infant deaths in past 50 years, while deaths in the age group of 61-80 have risen.   (GMCH) paediatric department head Dr CM Bokade said, “The declining death rate in infants is because of decreasing neonatal deaths. The credit goes to improved health services. Also, more deliveries are taking place in hospitals compared to home.”
 
 Appreciating NMC’s efforts in preparing data of 100 years, mayor Nanda Jichkar told TOI that the data will help the civic body plan and implement various projects. “NMC is the first to come up with such data. It is shocking to see consistent rise in births, deaths and also the skewed sex ratio. Need is to identify various schemes implemented by the government and avail them. Public needs to be educated to prevent rise in all these numbers and that can be taken up by the NMC," she said.
 
 Lade said, “The data will play a crucial role to help the government frame policies. Even while allocating budget for health care sector; this data can be referred. It will show what all areas need attention, how many patients the city is tackling, who are rising with every year.”
 
 Dr Raje said, “NMC had approached us to prepare analytical data. NMC has provided us the entire data of 100 years. It took us about two months to finish the task.”
 
