NEW DELHI: While a long-awaited law to regulate   for domestic workers is yet to become a reality, there are as many as 1,650 of them registered with the labour department under the   and Establishments Act, 1954. 

 Another 2,300 placement agencies providing services other than domestic work - such as that of security guards - are registered under the same law. 
 
  However, there is a catch: this registration, though statutory, has to be done by placement agencies on their own. Also, the certification is issued online without physical verification. So, no one knows exactly how many agencies go unchecked. The registration process itself is far from foolproof. Frauds are detected only after a complaint is launched. 
 
 Penalties for violation range from Rs 50 to Rs 250, hardly a deterrent for unscrupulous elements. It's learnt that labour department officials now want stringent registration provisions with mandatory Aadhaar and PAN linkages. They also want physical verification to be made a must before a licence is issued. 
 
 There is, of course, the Delhi Private Placement Agencies (Regulation) Order of September 2014, issued when Delhi was under President's Rule with the approval of the then LG,   It came armed with some tough provisions, ranging from penalty to cancellation of licence. 
 
 This interim order was issued as an arrangement in keeping with the Delhi high court directions of 2013. It made registration of all placement agencies employing domestic workers mandatory, under the Delhi Shops and Establishments Act, 1954, within 30 days of the order getting notified. 
 
  The order stated that violation of provisions would attract a penalty of Rs 50,000 and could also lead to prosecution. However, sources say implementation has been tardy. The first draft bill to regulate placement agencies in Delhi was put out in public domain by the   in 2012. It saw many changes, but could not become a law. 
 
 Over the last year, the labour department claims to have re-drafted the bill with strong penalty and regulatory provisions. However, cabinet approval could take another 2-3 months. 
 
  Speaking to TOI , DCW chief   stressed on the need for a law to regulate placement agencies. "When we issued a notice to the labour department asking how many licences have been issued to registered agencies, they said not even a single licence has been issued yet. An order is clearly not enough. It is important to bring a law," Maliwal said. 
 
