VARANASI: Taking moral responsibility for the violence that took place at the  , varsity's Chief Proctor has resigned from his post following which   will look after the additional charge till the new appointment.

  took moral responsibility for the violence at the varsity campus and tendered his resignation to Vice Chancellor G C Tripathi immediately after he returned from Delhi.
 
 Singh's resignation has been accepted by Tripathi, according to the report.
 
  Dean of students Prof MK Singh will look after the chief proctor office as additional charge till the new appointment is made.
 
 Meanwhile, ABVP has ended its stir on the BHU campus on getting assurance that their demands will be met from the Dean of students. 
 
 A high-level official report on the recent violence and arson in Banaras Hindu University (BHU) has reportedly noted that proper and timely communication with protesting girl students by the varsity administration could have nipped the problem in the bud and prevented it from escalating.
 
 On Tuesday, the BHU vice-chancellor, too, ordered a probe into the incidents headed by a retired HC judge.
 
 The atmosphere on the campus on Tuesday was largely peaceful and deployment of police and PAC had been reduced as most students had left for their homes since the festival holidays had been advanced. The university will now open only on October 3.
 
 Banaras Hindu University Vice-Chancellor G C Tripathi was allegedly summoned by the HRD ministry to Delhi.
 
 The BHU spokesman Rajesh Singh, however, claimed that he had gone to attend Executive Council's quarterly meet that was pre-scheduled. 
 
 Trouble started in BHU on the night of September 21 when students of a girls' hostel sat on protest following the sexual harassment of a student of visual arts near Bharat Kala Bhawan.
 
 On September 23, protests against the alleged sexual harassment of a student took a violent turn on the campus when seven students, including girls, and two journalists were injured in lathicharge. 
 
