Nagpur: Around 100 students of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar College of Law, along with their teachers, would be offering free-of-cost legal aid to devotees, mostly villagers, who would be thronging Nagpur for the Dhammachakra Pravartan Din, through their camp at  's main building, Rabindranath Tagore Marg, from Thursday.

 Through the three-day camp organized as part of the National Service Scheme (NSS), the college has been helping hundreds of Ambedkar followers since last 27 years in getting back their land, resolving domestic feuds and seeking compensation in case of death of a family member etc. 
 
 Talking about purpose behind the initiative, assistant professor Adhara Deshpande said, “We can’t always visit villages so Dhammachakra Pravartan Din is the best time to reach out to villagers.”
 
 Every year, around 1,200 people visit the camp. Besides Nagpur, villagers from rest of Maharashtra and neighbouring   and Chhattisgarh have benefited from the legal aid.
 
 Deshpande, who has been associated with the camp since 1993, said the initiative was started by the late Kishor Mahbal, who was a political science teacher at the college, in 1990 but the service is open to all.
 
 This is the first time the camp is being organized from the main building. Until last year, the college would set up the camp at   adjacent to University Library on North Ambazari Road. But, the ongoing cement road work forced the organizers to shift the venue this time.
 
 The volunteers, mostly comprising first-year and final year students, invite the devotees sauntering around   to the camp. They are shown different posters to create awareness about legal rights and given counselling on case-to-case basis.
 
 “In many cases, we found that rural women are not aware of their matrimonial rights. We help them claim the post separation privileges or return to their matrimonial home. Similarly, people are clueless when their land gets encroached,” Deshpande said.
 
 She added that the Mihan projected-affected people too had once approached them. “The villagers didn’t follow up the issue and we lost track,” she said.
 
 Deshpande said after identifying the issues, the cases are referred to contributory faculty members of the college or District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) which provides free-of-cost service. “Our contributory teachers do it for charity while DLSA helps litigants get a lawyer free-of-cost,” she said.
 
 A Legal Literacy Exhibition and Legal Aid Camp would be inaugurated on Thursday. Nagpur University registrar   would be the chief guest while NSS coordinator Keshav Walke will be the guest of honour.
 
