NAGPUR: Disgruntled after getting nothing substantial from the residence of an elderly couple in P&T Colony, burglars fled with their car in the early hours of Monday.

 The Deshpandes, who had purchased the car in June last year, were dependent on the vehicle for various works. Apart from the car, the burglars could get around Rs3,000 cash and some jewellery.
 
 The couple, Arun and Aparna, had gone to Pune to meet their son on February 10. On Monday, the couple flew back to the city.
 
 They sensed something seriously amiss after one of their neighbours tried to enquire over phone whether they had lent their car to anyone, as it was no more visible within their premises.
 
 The baffled couple denied any such favour to anyone and immediately started verifying facts.
 
 The neighbour, however, could not realize much as there was no other visible aberration from outside. It was after they learnt that the lock of the outside door was broken when Aparna’s brother too started verifying the matter.
 
 Aparna, employed as an assistant manager with  , said the car’s keys were hung from a hook behind the front door from where it was picked up by the burglars.
 
 “The thieves had even managed to lay their hands on the duplicate keys which were kept in the almirah,” she said.
 
 Arun, a former welfare officer at AG office, said the burglars sneaked into their residence after breaking open a window grill of one of the rooms.
 
 “The almirah was locked but the keys were kept in the vicinity. The burglars had used some gadgets to forcibly open the almirah , but in the process left it damaged. It was inside the almirah that some valuables and cash were kept which the burglars managed to lay their hands on,” he said. 
 
 Arun also said the entire place was ransacked as the burglars tried to find something valuable.
 
 “Some of the neighbours heard the noise of our car reversing at 3.10am, but assumed that we had returned. There was also a sound of an autorickshaw halting in front of the house at 11pm. The neighbours thought that we had returned,” Arun added.
 
 An offence has been registered at the   police station against the unidentified suspects.
 
