JAISALMER: South Basia area of Jaisalmer is infamous for female infanticide and a primitive tradition of killing newborn girl is still prevalent in a special community. In village Devda, infamous for practicing female infanticide, the first Baarat came after 100 years in 1998 and second one in 2004 while the third Baarat was received in 2010. This trend shows sharpest decline in  . There were only 667 females against 1,000 men in 2015 while number of women declined to 481 in 2016. Looking at the scenario, the district administration, during night chaupal, has started convincing the villagers to get rid of this social evil. 

 During night chaupal at Devda gram panchayat on Monday night, district collector Matadeen Sharma gave message to bring revolution for saving girls instead of creating awareness. He listened to the grievances of villagers and directed officers to redress them within 20 days.
 
 Sharma, informing villagers about the scheme —‘Beti Bachao Beti Padhao’, said the district has 852 females per 1000 males but, it has come to light that number of girls is very less in Bhati families, which is a curse to Devda.
 
 According to Sharma, figures show that not only in Devda, but also in Kotha village there were 714 women against 1000 men in 2015 and number of women reduced to only 538 which is really a matter of major concern for the society. He told the sarpanch and villagers to take oath to bring revolution in saving girl child and to educate them and pay special attention so that every house has girl along with boy. In this regard, former sarpanch Indra Singh Bhati, who was fortunate to receive the first Baarat in 1998 since 100 years, along with sarpanch assured the district collector of bringing in revolution in saving girl child.
 
 In the chaupal, Narayan Singh submitted an application for new electricity transformer at Jain and Suthar Pada on which was assured by Sharma to be completed within 15 days. 
 
 Ladhuram and other villagers demanded a new GLR at Jain Pada in Devda village for which the collector directed executive engineer (PHED) to send proposal and get approved by him.
 
