Kochi: Actor  , who is accused of giving a ‘quotation’ to kidnap and sexually assault a young actor, was granted   by the   on Tuesday. The court also imposed severe conditions while allowing the bail plea.

 Conditions imposed by the court include execution of a bond for Rs1 lakh with two sureties each for the like sum, surrendering of passport, and cooperation with the investigation. Dileep has been also ordered not to try to influence, intimidate, threaten, or coerce the victim or any of the prosecution witnesses directly, indirectly, or through any agent by any means, including words expressed through media. If any of the conditions are violated, the jurisdictional magistrate can cancel the bail, the court directed.
 
 The actor was arrested on July 10 in connection with the incident that allegedly occurred on February 17. According to the prosecution, Dileep had allegedly offered Rs 1.5 crore to first accused Sunil Kumar (alias ‘Pulsar’ Suni) to abduct the actor and record her nude videos. A sum of Rs10,000 was allegedly paid as advance.
 
 While granting bail, a single bench of the court said the investigation team has substantially completed the probe as well as collection of evidence and statements of all crucial witnesses have been recorded. This is to be considered as a change of circumstances from the two times when the court denied bail earlier, the bench noted.
 
 In the judgment, the court said it is pertinent to note that the petitioner is roped in on the conspiracy part and other offences such as rape are alleged against the petitioner on the strength of the conspiracy charge and that he did not participate in the actual sexual assault.
 
 “Statements of all crucial witnesses were recorded under Section 161 of CrPC. Hence, further custody of the petitioner on the basis of the apprehension of interference in trial at this stage may not be justified. He has no criminal antecedents, according to prosecution. The anxiety of the prosecution can be taken care of by providing effective conditions. Further, the court is bound to ensure that the survivor and all the prosecution witnesses are sufficiently insulated and protected against any possible threat or intimidation till trial is completed,” the court said in the judgment.
 
 Dileep’s counsel had argued that the only allegation against the petitioner was that he had engaged ‘Pulsar’ Suni to take nude video of the victim. Therefore, the offences of gang rape, or kidnapping could not be attributed to him with the aid of conspiracy charge. If these offences are excluded, he is entitled for statutory bail after 60 days, the counsel argued. Dileep had spent 85 days in jail when the judgment was delivered by the court.
 
 Opposing this, prosecution had argued that though the conspiracy was only to record obscene video, the actual sexual acts committed were the probable and proximate consequence of the act entrusted and the petitioner is liable for its consequences.
 
 
