BHOPAL: New affiliation by-laws of state   makes it mandatory for all private schools to appoint a   to help   with  . 

 According to new affiliation bylaws published in state gazette dated March, 31 2017, the state government has made it mandatory to have at least one counsellor in each school for maintaining its affiliation. 
 
 "Each school shall appoint a counsellor, who shall perform duties at the school. The counsellor should be a graduate in psychology or a graduate having a diploma in psychology. This shall be made mandatory for all private schools for maintaining their affiliation of both Madhya Pradesh Board and the CBSE," reads the official gazette.
 
 CBSE schools, which have still not appointed counsellors, are warned not to violate the board's affiliation bylaws. The CBSE made it mandatory to appoint a full-time counsellor for each school. In Madhya Pradesh, schools have a huge deficit of counsellors for their students. Baring few prominent CBSE and ICSE private schools, not a single private school has a part-time counsellor.
 
 Speaking to TOI, district education officer Dharmendra Kumar Sharma said no private school affiliated to Madhya Pradesh Board has presently appointed a counsellor. 
 
 He said the schools would have to appoint them at the earliest in order to uphold the affiliation.
 
 "The new affiliation bylaws have been released recently, so these schools will be given a time period to appoint counsellors," he said. 
 
 Sharma said majority of private schools affiliated to the CBSE in the city are violating educational norms and not following boards guidelines, which state that each school must have a full-time counsellor.
 
 "We will also write to the CBSE if the schools affiliated to it fail to fill the said post," he said.
 
 The aim of the law is to ensure the safety and safe environment for students as most common problems children face nowadays are scholastic performance pressure and the lack of interpersonal communication. 
 
 "Lack of counselling at the right time might add to the trouble of children facing any scholastic issue," he said. 
 
 The new affiliation bylaws have been released recently, so these schools will be given a time period to appoint counsellors. We will also write to the CBSE if the schools affiliated to it fail to fill the said post
 
 The new affiliation bylaws have been released recently, so these schools will be given a time period to appoint counsellors. We will also write to the CBSE if the schools affiliated to it fail to fill the said post
 
