New Delhi: Two  , both 19, were   half-a-dozen times by two men at Japanese Park in outer Delhi’s Prashant Vihar on Tuesday. Police sources said the youths were chased down and stabbed. 

 The killers left the victims bleeding at a dark stretch in the park and fled from the spot. One of them was later nabbed, sources said, but there was no official confirmation. Area DCP MN Tiwari could not be contacted despite repeated attempts by TOI.
 
 Police suspect a love angle to the murders. Locals said the area turns into a hub of criminals after dark due to lack of patrolling. Several guards TOI spoke to complained about being beaten up by miscreants when they tried to stop them from entering after closing time.
 
 The cousins, Ashib and Ankush, lived in the same building. One of the suspects in the case is a friend of the cousins who stayed in the neighbourhood. 
 
 Police said when the victims were going out for a stroll, the friend asked them to accompany him to Begampur for some work. He instead took them to   Park. The details of what happened there are sketchy.
 
 Sahil, Ankush’s younger brother, said: “Ankush called me at 1.30pm to tell me that he will back in a couple of hours. Later, when I called him, his phone was switched off. Then I called Ashib, but couldn’t get through his number either despite making repeated attempts.”
 
 Around 8pm on Tuesday, the 40th call that Ankush made to his brother was finally attended, but by a policeman. 
 
 “I was in panic by then. When the call was finally answered, I was relieved, only to find that the person at the other end was a policeman. I was told that my brother had met with an accident,” he said.
 
 Police said they reached the spot after receiving a call from a passerby. The brothers were already dead by then.
 
 Azad Singh, Ashib’s father, said the cousins were Class XII students and were preparing for their board exams. “They hardly entered into arguments and it has come as a shock to know that they met such a brutal end,” he said.
 
 A police source said the two were killed after being chased for at least 200 meters. Police found a woman’s footwear at the spot and have launched a search for her. 
 
 The phones of the victims and the arrested accused have been seized and police are going through the call records.
 
 
