PUDUCHERRY: Pondicherry University’s executive council has approved and ratified relieving of registrar B R  , who was one among the officials booked by the CBI on charges of indulging in corrupt practices in the postgraduate medical admission in private institutions in the Union territory of  .

 The council, which convened on Monday, said Section 12 (3) of the   Act confers power to the vice-chancellor to take any necessary action on any matter on any authority of the university and shall report to such authority the action taken.
 
 “Accordingly, the relieving of Babu from his duties as registrar on contractual basis and the appointment of K Tharanikarasu, as registrar (in-charge) was placed before the executive council (the competent authority of the university) in its 127th meeting held on September 25 and the executive council was pleased to approve the same, by way of ratification,” said a statement from the university.
 
 The council pointed out that only the vice-chancellor is appointed by the President of India in the capacity as the visitor of the university and all other officers including the registrar is appointed and relieved by the provisions of ordinances and statutes of the Pondicherry University Act only and not by any other authority.
 
 However, sources close to Babu said the council, which convened on Monday did not have a quorum, and hence its order is invalid. As per the Section 11 (3) of the university’s statute, “the one-third of the total members of the executive council shall form a quorum for a meeting of the executive council”.
 
 The executive council's strength is 21. Seven members must attend the council meeting to establish a quorum. Even though eight people including the vice-chancellor (in-charge) Anisa B Khan attended the meeting, only six of them are the members of the council. Special invitee Malabika Deo, who attended the meeting, is not a member of the council and registrar (in-charge) K  , is the secretary of the council, without voting rights. Hence only six members attended the council meeting and the order passed by the council is invalid, said sources close to Babu.
 
 Babu, who was the former secretary to Puducherry government, was one of the 13 people booked by the CBI on charges of criminal conspiracy, cheating and criminal misconduct. He joined the university as registrar on deputation on July 14. The university removed Babu on his superannuation on August 31 amidst chaos and drama. But the university had to reappoint him within 12 hours of his removal following a direction from the Union human resource development ministry.
 
 
