LUCKNOW: Reeling under the effect of  ,   has decided to crack the whip on state-run government hospitals with a slew of measures — from independent monitoring of facilities to implementation of protocol and third party inspection to raising exclusive cadre for hospital management.

 About 10 committees have been set up, with medical experts as members, to study the various recommendations made by state chief secretary Rajive Kumar. The committees will submit their reports in three months for the state medical education department to implement in the hospitals.
 
 “In the wake of the   incident, chief minister Aditya Nath Yogi had constituted a high-powered committee last month under the chairmanship of the chief secretary for recommending ways to streamline functioning of hospitals in medical colleges and universities,” said principal secretary, medical education, Rajneesh Dubey.
 
 One of these committees will ensure standard infrastructure in hospitals, strict implementation of hospital protocol and third party inspection and monitoring. This committee will comprise Dr UB Mishra head of department, hospital administration, KGMU, Dr Girish Gupta, HoD, neonatology, SGPGI, Dr Balbir Singh, professor of medicine at Medical College, Agra, and G K Aneja, additional director, medical education training.
 
 This committee will also submit its report on ways to get national accreditation of hospitals under the medical education department. “So far, the government was dependent on internal assessment and there was no proper mechanism to monitor programme implementation. Third party and independent monitoring and audit of hospital protocol will bring about improvement,” said Dubey.
 
 The government has also set up a panel to recommend ways and means to fill vacant posts of consultants and specialists in hospitals in medical colleges. This committee would be headed by Dr Abbas Ali Mehdi, head of biochemistry department at KGMU and submit its report by October 10.
 
 Another panel will work on finding ways to implement the government’s decision on a system of contractual bonds with doctors to ensure adequate availability of consultants and specialists. DG, medical education, Dr KK Gupta, will head the panel and submit his report by October 10.
 
 A third committee, headed by Dr Hem Chandra, head of hospital management in SGPGI, would submit recommendations for raising an exclusive cadre of hospital management services. At present, this is supervised by hospital superintendents. This will also include financial management and administration. This panel will submit its report by December 15.
 
 Another committee, headed by Dr Mala Kumar of the pediatrics department of KGMU, will recommend hospital protocol in SNICU (sick newborn intensive care units) and newborn intensive care units (NICU).
 
 Dubey said the state government is considering asking consultants and specialists to sign bonds to pledge their services mandatorily to tackle the menace of staff shortage.
 
 
