Kolkata: The ill-fated Vivekananda Road   that collapsed a year back killing 27 people can become the first elevated driveway restricted to two-wheelers. Even though experts had suggested demolishing the flyover, the state government is reluctant to pull it down for the cost involved could be very high. It would rather put the flyover to a restricted use in a manner that wouldn’t be risky, according to state government sources.

 Other than being an expensive proposition, demolishing the flyover could damage some of the buildings located close to the flyover which collapsed last year on March 31. “It would be a better idea to make it usable in whatever way it can be. To minimize the load on the flyover, it could be restricted to bikes, cycles and three-wheelers,” an official said.
 
 Experts are also checking if four wheelers can be also allowed. The state government is consulting technical experts on how to rebuild the 2.2 km long flyover, though some experts had advised demolition as a safety measure. But the feasibility of pulling it down is also being considered by the state officials. As much as Rs 165 crore was spent on the flyover. The officials pointed out that pulling it down will also cost much. Other than the huge cost involved in demolition, providing alternate shelter to the people staying close to the flyover would also pose a problem.
 
 The high-power flyover committee headed by chief secretary Basudeb Banerjee is yet to come to a final decision, though. The state government had hired Rites for an expert opinion on the flyover and is also consulting IIT-Kharagpur experts. Already the Nabanna officials have consulted IIT experts. The experts had opined that faulty design, use of sub-standard materials and flawed execution had led to the collapse of the flyover.
 
 The police had arrested nine officials of IVRCL, the construction firm, and several officials of KMDA which had hired the firm. The chief engineer of KMDA was suspended for the collapse.
 
 
