Hyderabad: Demonetisation may have left several businesses hobbling for want of cash but gave wings to many in the digital payments field.

 One such beneficiary of the PM’s DeMon move on November 8, 2016, was fintech startup   that offers omni-channel payment solutions to businesses of all sizes.
 
 “Earlier our sales team used to struggle to convince businesses to deploy our payments transaction solutions as many feared they may come under the tax net. But after demonetisation, going cashless has become a matter of honour. Thanks to the PM, we are saving on marketing costs,” chuckles Priti Shah, CEO Paynear Solutions.
 
 After the initial pick-up, business slowed down in February. “Cash is a habit in India that cannot be changed overnight. But with the government endorsing a cashless economy… the stage is set for growth,” says COO Krishna Kishore. 
 
 Two years into the launch of its solutions, Paynear has already helped 30,000 businesses go cashless. As the startup targets the next level of growth with 1 lakh businesses on its solutions by 2017 end, its founders feel Hyderabad has been lucky for them. 
 
 While Mumbai would have been an obvious choice to headquarter a payments business (also because two of the six cofounders are from Mumbai), Paynear started out from a nondescript building in Punjagutta. 
 
 Interestingly, all the cofounders were part of another payments firm – EBS – that was headed by Prabhu Ram (now Paynear MD) and headquartered in Punjagutta. In 2010, EBS was acquired by French payments giant Ingenico after which the six quit EBS.
 
 Shah recounts the “emotional” decision to quit that led to the birth ofPaynear. “When you are an entrepreneur at heart… you enjoy building a company. After EBS was acquired, we did not want to be bench warmers and hence moved out around April 2013,” she recounts.
 
 After EBS, the goal was to design something new. “We had an obligation to EBS to not enter the online payments business for two years. After quitting, for over four weeks, we would gather here and brainstorm. We thought of everything from e-commerce to healthcare to wellness products…but the itch was always payments. Finally, we decided to build an offline payments startup,” explains executive director Maulik Shah. 
 
 They zeroed in on offline payments as they felt it was a lucrative business proposition owing to the sheer size of the Indian market that is estimated at a whopping 5 crore establishments. An added advantage: their extensive experience in online payments. 
 
 But offline payments was a different ball game due to regulations and it took almost a year for Paynear to come up with its product and clinch a bank partner (all payments have to be routed via a bank). 
 
 Axis Bank came to the rescue in May 2014, after which Paynearrolled out full-fledged operations in February 2015. From offline payment solutions it also ventured into online solutions in 2015 to emerge as an omni-channel player. 
 
 Today Paynear has five bank partners and employs over 300 people, who are the glue that hold the co-founders together. “Like any other team…we also fight but there is a fear that if we fail… it will affect all 300 families. At times we feel it is a top-heavy startup with six bosses but after demonetisation… when the work load increased, we realised it is our biggest strength as everybody has expertise in different areas,” she explains.
 
 Paynear, which has been running on the $7-8 million pumped in by the co-founders in 2013, is now scouting investments of around $15-20 million this year.
 
 It also plans to add 100 people this year, primarily in the tech and support teams and lease out a new office in Gachibowli, where it plans to move in by April 2017.
 
 But will this mean a complete shift to the happening part of the city? The new set-up might become Paynear’s corporate office but the Punjagutta office is expected to remain its headquarters thanks to the “luck factor”, signs off Priti Shah.
 
 
