NEW DELHI:   has filed an  , the second, against a company that allegedly planned   tours abroad for government departments, but failed to honour the contracts despite the payment of the requisite fees. Identifying itself as National Council of Training and Social Research (NCTSR), it had claimed to have been established by Delhi government.

 Reacting to the TOI’s report on Tuesday, Delhi government had asserted it had nothing to do with the organisation. An FIR had already been registered against NCTSR by Crime Branch for criminal conspiracy, fraud and other offences. Police had begun investigation in the case related to the firm defrauding the Uttar Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission and other departments of lakhs of rupees for sending officials on study tours to Singapore, Malaysia and  .
 
 On Saturday, Delhi government’s labour commissioner filed the second FIR at the police station in Vivek Vihar, where NCTSR claimed to be operating from. Though the firm is registered in Triveni Apartment in east Delhi’s Jhilmil Colony, its listed phone numbers belong to the Vivek Vihar area.
 
 In its complaint, the   affirmed that NCTSR was not set up by Delhi Government and the firm was cheating and misleading people by claiming to the contrary. “They have been using the name of the Labour Department to charge huge amounts for training people and sending them abroad. On September 16 last year, the department had issued a notice to the company seeking an explanation as to why no legal action should be initiated against them. The management of the company had failed to appear before the additional labour commissioner as per the order,” the complaint said.
 
 NCTSR’s website claimed it was established by the “Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi, Department of Labour, New Delhi”. Using such credentials, it sent the UPERC chairman a proposal last December for a study tour related to power and infrastructure in Singapore and Thailand. The UP body paid Rs 4.43 lakh for the travel of its chairman, who personally also paid Rs 1.74 lakh for his wife and daughter to tag alone. The trip never materialised and the money was never refunded after the said organisers went underground.
 
 On scrutiny, UPERC found that NCTSR had used a different address in each letter it had sent. “The letter dated March 27states NCTSR address as being in Mayur Vihar III, while the April 17 letter gives a Ghaziabad address. The first letter in December mentioned the address as Triveni Apartment in Jhilmil Colony, east Delhi,” the UPERC secretary charged.
 
