KOLKATA: Alarmed by the uprooting of 23 full-grown trees in Saturday evening's 60-second squall, botanists,   have called for a tree management plan to save the city's greenery, which is facing   Green experts seem unanimous in their view that human factors cause most trees to topple, with a squall or agale acting as the final trigger.

 Experts pointed out a comprehensive tree management plan had to be put in place immediately to stop further loss of trees. The first priority will be to identify trees under threat and draw up corrective measures so that they can be saved.For instance, if a tree looks unstable as it leans on one side, support has to be provided.
 
 Secondly, the experts want trees to be scientifically pruned, once before the northwester season and again in monsoon to ensure the crown is evenly reduced so that the tree is not top heavy and can survive storms. “Many trees fall down because only the side of the crown facing the road is pruned, while the rear portion remains intact. This destroys the tree's stability,“ said green  . Thirdly, activists want road widening projects, particularly those requiring curbing of footpaths, to be referred to experts. "Once a fo otpath width is reduced, the tree ends up on the road and their lateral roots are hacked.Paving with asphalt or concrete till the edge of the trunk also smothers them. All this for an additional half lane," said Naba Datta of Sabuj Mancha.
 
 Fourthly, there is a call for replacement of uprooted trees with semi-grown trees that are at least 8-10 ft tall. "Two-three dozen trees are lost every northwester. Pulling down of old houses to make way for multi-storied buildings leads to loss of three-five trees a house. Hundreds of trees are felled due to development projects. Some ancient trees at Maidan or Rabindra Sarobar get uprooted in storms. If the city has to survive, we need to replace all of them," said activist Arjan Basu Roy. The KMC's parks department, which will conduct a survey of trees uprooted on Saturday, said the primary reason was lack of proper pruning. A source indicated the KMC was also considering buying sophisticated machines for pruning.
 
 Botanist Basant Kumar Singh of Indian Botanic Garden, Shibpur, said species of avenue plantation trees should be chosen judiciously so that the trunk was not too thick to take up too much space on the pavement and yet had a reasonable crown to provide shade.
 
 
 This is what happens when a city stops looking after its trees and puts them in the low-maintenance category.Decades of apathy are now taking their toll. Government agencies need to consult experts and then do what needs to be done to save what remains of the city's tree population.
 
