HYDERABAD: The   on Tuesday ordered a probe by the district collector into the death of five women in just about a week at  .   will conduct the probe and submit his report within a week to the government.

 In addition, a   by a three-member committee of doctors will also investigate the circumstances leading to the death of the five women and submit a report to the government before the end of this week.
 
 This was announced on Tuesday by   , who also said that the government will take harsh steps against those found responsible for the deaths at the hospital.
 
 The minister was addressing a press conference at the Secretariat following protests at Niloufer Hospital after five women who delivered babies died in little over a week. All the women had undergone C-sections. “While the doctors will probe the technical aspects, it was decided that a separate probe by an IAS officer was required to identify the lapses, if any, and to initiate action against anyone found responsible for the deaths,“ the minister said.
 
 The committee will probe several aspects related to the deaths, including the case histories of the five women, examine reports of the tests conducted on them, analyze the prescribed drugs and the procedures followed in the operation theatre, and prepare an overall `death audit'.
 
 The committee will comprise Petlaburj Government Maternity Hospital superintendent Dr Pratibha, Prof. Rani from the state-run Gandhi Hospital and anaesthesiologist Dr Deeparaj Singh.
 
 The minister said he was anguished at the deaths, espe cially when the government was taking several measures to improve services at the hospital. He explained that the hospital mostly receives `referral' cases, with many such patients diagnosed with complicated medical conditions. In reality, the hospital has the nest neo-natal care facilities in India and doctors from several countries train there, he said. Niloufer Hospital registe red 6,795 deliveries last year and 533 deliveries this year so far. On an average, 1,000 to 1,200 out-patients visit the hospital each day while at any given time there are 900 to 1,400 in-patients.
 
