 While medical colleges and institutes are still struggling to come to terms with the fact that students after Class XII will need to clear the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) before they can be admitted,another notification from the Medical Council of India (MCI) comes as a relief. The notification states that 1804   will be added to post-graduation medical courses across India from the next academic year. In Gujarat state only there will be an addition of 147 seats. Viren Umrethiya, a medical student who just cleared MBBS says, “I will be appearing for NEET in November for my post-graduation admission and such a news is a relief for me.” This does not mean that the admissions will come easier for the students. With the news of MCI cancelling admissions of students who did not appear for counselling after clearing NEET is still fresh and this means that Supreme Court orders for admissions are getting stricter. But there are reports that in actuality only about 100 seats will be added.A doctor/professor on condition of anonymity explains, “According to MCI previously two students could study under a professor and one under an associate or assistant professor but now MCI has granted for three and two respectively. The increase in student professor ratio also means that seats will be added to PG courses and they will be but not 147 because many professors have been transferred from Ahmedabad and other PG medical colleges to places like Patan and other small places.” Medical colleges in Patan, Junagadh and Valsad do not have post-graduation courses which automatically mean a decrease in three students per professor thus decreasing the total seats. “The ratio has only been increased to neutralize the skewed student professor ratio that was being affected with the addition of new under graduate medical colleges.PG seats are being sacrificed for new centers we feel and the professors are being promised temporary transfers to newer colleges.” Of all the places in Gujarat, colleges in   has received the most number of seats with Bhavnagar getting 24 and Rajkot 23.Dr Kinner Shah,Ahmedabad based oncologist says,“This was long overdue and there has been increase in undergraduate colleges so unless there are more seats in PG there will not be specialists in any particular area. About 5-7 students compete for the same seat currently and adding more seats will only ease out the tension a bit and admit more students each year adding to the specialized doctors currently.” From the 147 medical seats that will be increased, 94 are in government run medical colleges whereas 53 are in self-financed colleges.Manisha Sharma,a medical student says, “It’s a welcome change as it will broaden the base.” However time will only tell what holds for the medicos wanting to specialize.

 
