THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The   is being curtailed as different arms of the state go to court against each other, said information commissioner   at a conference in the Kerala capital on the theory and practice of democracy, 'Unpacking participatory democracy'.

 On December 21 last year, Acharyulu had ordered the inspection of   records for 1978, which was reportedly the year when Prime Minister Narendra Modi got his BA degree. The university had earlier denied these records to an RTI applicant who sought details of Modi’s educational qualifications. DU contended that this was personal information with no "relationship to any public activity or interest."
 
 Acharyulu however mentioned that in November 2016, the   had upheld an order of the Manipur high court, invalidating the election of a legislator after it was discovered that the man did not hold an MBA degree, as claimed earlier. The information commissioner explained that the court held then that the public servant’s election to office was based on his qualification.
 
 On Wednesday, Acharyulu did not mention PM Modi by name. He said different norms could not be brought to play just because the matter concerned a “VVIP”. He expressed surprise that the Delhi University and Delhi lt governor could both be providing similar information in other cases but decline information in one particular case. He said it was held that the student had provided the information to the university – when in fact DU is the one offering the degree!
 
 Acharyulu said that the Right to Information could be used as a tool to also gain other rights. However, the state has begun to deny RTI in order to also deny other rights. The RTI is one way in which citizens can also share sovereignty.
 
 Acharyulu explained that in one instance, a law student sought the text of a certain law, which ought to be made available to all citizens easily. The ministry of law and justice, however, was not able to provide this text. By the time the matter came to the information commission in a second appeal, the student had already passed out of his course and no longer needed the text.
 
 In another instance, one RTI applicant sought to know how many judges had declared their assets – the applicant had not sought details of assets declared, only the numbers of judges who had made such declarations. The SC took a case to the Delhi high court, and the matter was listed as 'Supreme Court Vs  '. After the Delhi high court ruled that the details should be provided, the matter was then taken to the SC – the Supreme Court had thus approached itself!
 
 The litigious nature of public institutions, Acharyulu said, was eroding the efficacy of RTI. 
 
