PANAJI: Hopes of Goa joining the   have brightened with   and St Xavier’s College, Mapusa, working out the modalities to establish facilities in order to connect to audiences through airwaves.

 In other parts of India and the world,   (CR) has created a huge impact. NGOs, educational institutions and others have created listening clubs and knowledge network societies, entertaining and educating people on cultural aspects, lifestyles, tackling problems and fighting corruption, among other issues.
 
 Goa University has recently appointed a committee to study the feasibility and modalities of setting up a community radio system on campus. “A CR has immense scope to address a wide range of issues and cater to the needs of its community. It should involve community members at all levels from farmers and fishermen to the educated class,” an official said.
 
 A similar project has been taken up by St Xavier’s College which had started the process many years back, but it could not reach fruition due to hurdles. The efforts to secure the licence has now reached the fourth tier in a five-tier system.
 
 “We should not lag behind others as radio is a powerful tool for empowering the local community around our institutions,” says Vailarose Fernandes, faculty, department of mass communications, St Xavier’s College.
 
 At a recent workshop organized by GOACAN, a Mapusa-based NGO, at Dona Paula, Sajjan Veniyoor and Frederico Noronha, both CR promoters, explained various facets of the CR revolution and the possibility of setting up a station with a low-powered transmitter. “An investment of Rs 15 lakh with 50% government subsidy can help the local communities get a voice and reflect local diversity,” Veniyoor said.
 
 Radio in the past enjoyed a greater outreach but its popularity waned in recent decades due to television and other means of communication. “But considering our cultural diversity, CR can be a platform to preserve and nurture our rich traditions, folklore and dialects for future generations,” Fernandes said.
 
