NEW DELHI: 2016 began for Jawaharlal Nehru University with the protest against the hanging of Kashmiri freedom protagonist   putting it smack in the middle of a heated national debate on patriotism and nationalism.   was dubbed a ‘hub of treason’, and the incident continued to colour every act in the university — of students, teachers and the administration — in the months that followed. A year later, the JNU fraternity is still grappling with questions about its identity.

 In its 48 years of existence, JNU has established itself as one of the intellectually most vibrant Indian institutions of higher learning. Even with more protests and little study through the year, the end of 2016 saw JNU winning the presidential award for being the best university in India.
 
 Amid such achievements, February 9, 2016 continues to reverberate on the campus, casting its shadow even on incidents like the disappearance of a student. The events of 2016 are often described by the largely leftist teacher body and student organisations as the attempt of a rightist central government to muzzle a left-leaning university. “The incident was a planned script meant to thwart students and teachers,” alleged Ayesha Kidwai, president, JNU Teachers’ Association. “Expressing dissent is not an offence.”
 
 But far from being a simple ideological confrontation, perhaps Anand Kumar, who has been associated with JNU for 40 years, first as student and later as professor, was more correct in describing the February event as “the rallying point for students, faculty and alumni for a long interrogation about the university’s contribution to the nation”.
 
 Avatans Kumar, a former student and now a political commentator based in Chicago, was critical of the government imputing seditious intents on the part of the students and asked, “If in this age, we do not experiment with new thought, when will we?” More importantly Kumar put a few things in perspective.
 
 “What’s is happening in JNU in the past one year is the result of the left’s desperation,” he said, pointing out the irrelevancy of leftist ideology in the face of a government that may not be sympathetic to them and in the context of global events, from Poland to Brexit to America. Kumar said that the crisis in JNU can be explained as the effort of the campus ideology to fit into the new narrative.
 
 Leftists struggling to hold ground in JNU could explain the singlemost important development in student politics on the campus in the past year. It is not the rightist ABVP that has segued into the newly ceded space, but the Birsa Ambedkar Phule Students’ Association, or BAPSA. Commemorating the name of Dalit and Adivasi icons, the two-year old BAPSA has actually spread beyond JNU to Gorakhpur University, Lucknow University, even Allahabad University.
 
 “JNU discusses everything from why rotis were not cooked properly in the hostels to why Trump won in America,” pointed out Dilip Maurya, PhD candidate and former student chairperson of the JNUSU election committee. “This culture is in decline and JNUSU has become weak because one group has been in power for far too long. The reins of power have to change at some point of time.”
 
 BAPSA may have a small cadre, but in the student union election in September last year its candidate, Rahul Sonpimple, an MPhil student, got 1,545 votes to the 1,954 garnered by the combined left candidacy of Mohit Pandey. ABVP trailed far behind. Sonpimple attributes his party’s popularity to being “different from the binary of the left and the right”.
 
 BAPSA has influenced a new mode in the students’ movement in JNU. It is overtly militant and relies on more than just debate and discussion — JNU’s distinctive trait — to press its point. It has burnt the vice-chancellor in effigy, and on February 9, locked up the classrooms and picketed teachers to prevent lectures.
 
 While welcoming this new ideology, AISA member and former JNUSU vice-president Anant Prakash decried the methods, such as strikes, being used by BAPSA. ABVP’s Saurabh Sharma, a former JNUSU joint secretary, too accused BAPSA of “acting like an anarchic organisation”. But there was perhaps tacit in their rhetoric the acknowledgement that JNU student politics is no longer defined as left or right.
 
