CHANDIGARH: The state consumer disputes redressal forum has directed a real estate company to pay Rs 23.30 lakh to 13 people for failing to give possession of flats under its project, `The Valley', in Sector 3 of   on time.

 The forum disposed of the bunch of 13 complaints against   Homes, Panchkula, by passing one consolidated order. The 13 complainants be longed to Shimla, Panchkula, Chandigarh, Mohali, Gurgaon, Delhi, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Rohtak and Abohar.
 
 Kavita Devi of Karnala, in her complaint, stated that despite lapse of more than oneand-a-half years of issuance of completion certificate, basic amenities had not been provided at the site. It was furt her stated that the government department has issued a completion certificate to DLF without there being any facility of road, water supply , electricity supply , streetlights and fencing outer boundary of the project. Despite delay of three years, the complainant was yet to get possession of the flat.
 
 It was further stated that the realtor had falsely represented that the project would be completed by December 2014. It was further stated that due to delay in handing over the unit, she was suffering huge monetary loss as she had been forced to live on rent by paying a monthly rent of Rs 15,000.
 
 In its written reply, the re altor stated that the complaint has become infructuous as the possession was already offered by it on July 8, 2016. It was further stated that the complainant herself was not taking possession and therefore, she was liable to pay holding charges.
 
 It was further stated that construction of the project got delayed due to a stay on the construction by the high court and later by the   due to third party litigation involving acquisition proceedings of land of litigants in 2010 and 2012. It was also stated that proper water connection and electricity supply was in place and housekeeping and maintenance services were being provided through a leading multinational company .
 
 The forum held that since the realtor failed to complete construction and deliver possession within the stipulated period and extended one-year period, it is responsible for delay and deficiency in service and their appeal for allowing them escalation cost of construction as well as land holding amounts to seeking amendment of terms and conditions of the agreement stands rejected.
 
