MUMBAI: A   escort team of six helped an accused in the 2006   arms   case escape while in transit from Kolkata to Mumbai in 2014, a special investigation team ( ) has informed the Bombay  . A request made last December to the police commissioner in Barrackpore for sanction to prosecute the West Bengal cops is pending.

 It appears that Shaikh Abdul Naeem (36), a suspected Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorist, “escaped and crossed the border’’ while being escorted, said the HC, and disposed of a habeas corpus petition. A bench of Justices Ranjit More and Shalini Phansalkar Joshi observed that the SIT directed the Chhattisgarh police to prepare a detailed dossier and forward it to the director-general, Border Security Force (BSF) at the Centre, to take up the matter of his whereabouts with the   Rifles authorities.
 
 Naeem’s mother, Qamar Nasreen, a Thane resident, had moved the HC in 2014 to get the police to produce her son. She alleged that he may have been killed in custody, and through her lawyers, Chetan Mali demanded a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe. The counsel for the State of West Bengal, Ishwar Nankani had argued that it had taken action against the escorting cops for negligence. Nankani had also argued that "in view of the SIT's finding that the person has absconded, a plea of Habeas corpus is not maintainable." Naeem was in the Dum Dum central correctional home and was to be produced in a Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act court here.
 
 After hearing her case, a bench headed by Justice Naresh Patil had last September directed that a SIT headed by the CBI joint director probe the matter. The team included the Maharashtra and West Bengal Anti-Terrorism Squad heads and Raigarh police commissioner. They had to find if Nayeem was alive or dead.
 
 Naeem was a resident of Aurangabad, where he was studying science in college in 2006. His father is a retired MSEB officer and three brothers are doctors, and one a lawyer. He was arrested in 2007 in West Bengal, along with three others, when they allegedly tried to enter India from across the border. Naeem’s family claimed he was suffering from a kidney ailment that made him “physically weak”, and thus it was very unlikely that he escaped.
 
 
