CHENNAI: For violinist  , the recipient of the   Award 2016, the honour is not just an acknowledgment of her long and illustrious musical career but one with a deeply personal connect. The violinist, while accepting the award at the Sadas of the   on Sunday, said "the award was a blessing from my mother" who died a couple of days before the award was announced.

 Kanyakumari has created history by becoming the first female violinist to receive the Sangita Kalanidhi. A traditionalist who is known for pushing the boundaries of creativity, Kanyakumari said music was not just a career but her way of life. Overwhelmed by the honour, the   virtuoso said this particular award went beyond the formal citation and medal. "In the Music Academy I have enjoyed the status of an awardee for more than 15 days. Presiding over the morning sessions and lecture demonstrations gave me a new sense of responsibility towards music," said Kanyakumari.
 
 The Padma Shri awardee is known both as a performer who accompanied M L Vasanthakumari for more than two decades and also as a teacher whose students have become top-grade artists. She has also created seven ragas, each named after the Tirumala hills.
 
 Vocalist R Vedavalli, a past recipient of the Sangita Kalanidhi award, in her felicitation speech said Kanyakumari had formed a unique style as an accompanist. "Though Kanyakumari knows all the trends in music, she retains the purity and the classicism," Vedavalli said.
 
 Presenting the award to Kanyakumari, M K Narayanan, diplomat and former governor of West Bengal, said Kanyakumari was an embodiment of musical excellence. He went on to point out that these were the times when traditions often come under attack but that Carnatic music tradition remains impregnable to such assaults is remarkable. "Rasikas of Carnatic music owe a deep gratitude to a dedicated group of Carnatic music lovers in the early 20th century who set up the academy, which preserves and propagates Carnatic music," he said. Referring to M S Subbulakshmi’s address in the Sadas of 1968, when she was presented with the Sangita Kalanidhi award, Narayanan said Subbulakshmi’s concern about youngsters losing interest in Carnatic music was still an issue almost 50 years later. Taking up the cause of instilling interest in Carnatic music would be a fitting posthumous gift to the legend on her centenary year, he said.
 
 After the award presentation, the stage was opened to individuals who wished to honour the awardees. Kanyakumari’s students and disciples thronged the stage to honour her. "Usually when the stage is opened for the public to felicitate the awardees, many do not come forward," said a Sadas regular in the audience, adding that many people came because Kanyakumari is a great musician.
 
 The Sangita Kala Acharya awards were given to Rudrapatnam Brothers, R N Thyagarajan and R N Tharanathan and professor K Venkataraman. The TTK Awards for senior artists were given to vocalist   and vidwan M Kodilingam. Dr Rama Kowsalya was recipient of the musicologist award. As part of the tradition, the best performances during the Academy’s 15-day music season were also felicitated.
 
 
