BHOPAL: Team Lunar Crusaders, comprising two students of Indian Institutes of Science Education and Research ( ), Bhopal, has secured a place among top 25 teams in the Lab2Moon international competition on aerospace.

 TeamIndus, an aerospace startup based at Bangalore, is conducting the competition. The final round will be organised later this year. The winning project of Lab2Moon competition will fly on board the Lunar Lander of TeamIndus, which is all set to launch their   towards the end of 2017. The team is building a spacecraft to land on the moon. They have signed a launch contract with the ISRO, securing a dedicated PSLV for the mission. TeamIndus is the only Indian team competing for the Google Lunar X Prize, a lunar exploration competition. It offers a total of USD 30 million in prize to the first privately funded team, which safely lands a robot on the surface of the moon and have that robot travel 500 metres on lunar surface and also sending video images and data back to the earth.
 
 Lunar Crusaders members from IISER, Bhopal, are Ramakrushna Swain (third year, integrated BS-MS, department of biological sciences) and Bhawani Singh (third year, integrated BS-MS, department of physics). The third member of the team, Rudra Vaswata Roy Choudhury, is a third year student of MS photonics and electrical engineering, IIT Madras. About their project, Swain said, “Our project titled ‘Smartscope’ is on microscopy of biological samples such as spores using a cell-phone based microscopy platform that will give an idea as to how rough lunar environment affects spores, a robust representative of the biological world.”
 
 “On top of this, we are planning to send lyophilised DNA to check the stability of genetic samples in lunar environment before we can exploit the moon for strategic and vital projects like gene banks or lunar cultivation. The project shall give an insight as to what the moon holds for us in future,” he said. Teaching faculty, IISER, Prof Chandan Sahi, said, “Both IISER students are very much into research work. It is good to see that they have secured place in top 25 for a unique project.”
 
 There are over 85 engineers and 15 former ISRO scientists who are helping TeamIndus design and develop its proprietary technology from its headquarters in Jakkur, Bangalore. TeamIndus had announced the launch of Lab2Moon, a competition to challenge the brightest young minds globally to think beyond planet earth and create an experiment to fly on board the TeamIndus spacecraft to the moon in 2017. The shortlisted teams for Lab2Moon include those from India, Peru, Mexico, USA, UK, Spain and Italy. They are now competing for the second round.
 
 
