GOA: Weeks to go before the monsoon, but Goa is already reeling from chronic power failure. Across the state, electricity comes and goes, often remaining absent for hours. Earlier this month, citizens were left powerless for an entire day, an exceedingly grim portent of what can be expected once the rain begins in earnest. While the administration says it is not responsible—the day-long outage was due to collapse of the Western Grid—it is equally true the state visibly suffers from decades of mismanagement, and the conspicuous absence of leadership and vision in this sector. So Goa’s energy scenario remains disgracefully backward and inadequate, even as the rest of India (and the world) is racing ahead into a bold new world of cheap and efficient renewables.

 Look just south to Kerala’s outstanding push to self-reliance via solar power. Backed by the comprehensive Kerala   Policy 2013, the southern state is innovating renewable energy in unprecedented ways. In 2013 itself, the Kochi International Airport installed 400 solar panels on its roof. With this experiment’s success, the facility added 46,000 more in an adjacent field. In 2015, it became the world’s first airport to run fully on solar power. This is an amazing feat for one of the busiest airfields in India, which handles more than 1,000 flights per week (around double the traffic at Goa’s  ).
 
 Kerala is just one bright spot in what the Vienna Energy Forum calls “the largest energy transformation project in the world” underway in India. Across Goa’s border in Karnataka, state authorities are busily building the world’s largest solar power installation at Pavagada (around 200km from Bangalore). By the end of this monsoon, this single joint venture between K??arnataka Renewable Energy Development Ltd and Solar Energy Corp of India will begin generating 500MW of electricity, which is roughly enough to power the entire state of Goa. At the end of next year, the park expects to operate at full capacity of 2,700MW. That’s significantly more than all of Bangalore needs or uses. In one stroke,   has solved its most pressing energy issues by going solar.
 
 Think wind power, and India’s achievements are even more impressive. Last year alone, 5,400MW of wind-generated electricity was added to an aggregate that already accounts for 9% of the country’s total installed energy capacity. A combination of aggressive investors and prudent tariff changes has created a bull market. According to the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy, at least 6 gigawatts (GW) of additional wind power capacity will be added each year for the next five years. Meanwhile, the entire coastline still remains untapped. With immense implications for Goa, the government projects hundreds of thousands of additional MW could be generated from   to Kerala along the western shoreline.
 
 Between hydro, wind and solar power generation, and increased efficiencies including LED lights, it is now expected that less than 50% of India’s electricity will still come from coal and other fossil fuels by 2027. This easily surpasses the country’s commitments under the landmark Paris climate change accords. Other countries are also charging ahead. A few months ago,   satisfied its entire energy requirements for 107 hours (over four days) from only renewable sources. Portugal’s 50% of annual needs now come from clean energy. Much larger Germany is not far behind. Last year, the industrial giant generated 36% of its electricity from clean sources, and plans to satisfy its total needs in this way by 2050.
 
 Cold northern countries are achieving energy self-sufficiency. Kerala and Karnataka are doing the same. By contrast, Goa’s record is zero. Adding considerable insult to injury, instead of pursuing green technology, this state administration is determinedly colluding to impose an astonishingly ill-conceived “coal hub” on Mormugao harbour. There are massive and glaring irregularities in every aspect of the proposal backed by India’s most notorious polluters in partnership with the consistently irresponsible Mormugoa Port Trust. It is guaranteed to devastate public health in Vasco, and far beyond.
 
 Why does Goa fall headlong backwards, while the rest of the world happily catapults ahead? It is the same reason that underlies most of its ills—from the ever-worsening garbage crisis, to the existential threat from an unending tsunami of the worst possible tourists. The painful truth is India’s smallest, richest, and best-educated state has been cursed for a full generation, by the most incompetent, short-sighted, greedy and utterly corrupt political and economic elites anywhere. Even by the rotten standards of the rest of India, these men (and they are all men) are the worst. Thus, in energy and every other aspect that can be named, Goa’s legendarily golden goose in now thoroughly cooked.
 
 
 
 
