NOIDA: As the safety of students going to school becomes a big concern after the recent murder of a boy inside Ryan International School in Gurgaon’s Bhondsi, the   has requested the transport department to help create a centralised database of drivers working in the district so that their track record could be assessed by the bus owners before hiring them.

 The request has come after the district administration gave a stringent warning to the bus owners and some of them got notices for violations done by the drivers. 
 
 The DM had warned the bus owners and the schools saying that they will face action in case any untoward incident happens to any child.
 
 Stating that there was no mechanism to verify the driving licences of the drivers seeking a job, the bus owners have called for a   verification cell at the transport department or the SSP office which can act as a “one-stop” platform to verify the driver’s licence.
 
 “At present, the only verification of drivers is being done by the police at the SSP office. We get a verification done on our own behalf but we do not get to know the track record of the driver. If we are aware of the same, we can decide whom to employ,” Sandeep Dhupar, president, Noida bus association told TOI.
 
 The association has also volunteered to take the first step and make a database of information pertaining to drivers and circulate it among its 125 members so that every owner gets to know the track record of the driver. “The drivers frequently switch their workplaces and some are habitual drinkers. We do not get to know of the challans issued against them. Hence we are demanding that the transport authorities note down the names and the offence for which the bus driver has been challaned,” Anil Dixit, general secretary, Noida bus association told TOI. “These days, the onus is on the owner too, and transporters are already getting notices. However, there is no platform from where we can get details about the driver,” Dhupar said.
 
  (administration) Arunendra Singh told TOI that if the bus association takes the initiative to create the database, it can help them in the verification of the licences of the drivers.
 
 “We can help in verifying the drivers but our role will be limited to this,” he said.
 
 In a meeting with the ARTO on Monday, the association has also said that it will create a unique “bus driver code” so that information about drivers can be mandatorily shared by all bus owners among themselves.
 
 
