Surat: The city BJP leaders are worried over the poll prospects of the party in the areas of Surat dominated by migrant population from north India. After Friday’s incident — where a few leaders of Uttar Bharatiya Rail Sangarsh Samiti (UBRSS) were beaten up by the supporters of Navsari MP C R Paatil — party insiders believe that the act has damaged the image of BJP ahead of upcoming assembly elections in Gujarat. 

 North Indian communities mostly reside in parts of Udhna, Pandesara, Limbayat, Bhestan, Vesu, VIP Road etc. They are upset as some activists crusading for increased rail connectivity from Surat to states in north India were beaten up when they had gone to represent the demands to minister of state for railways Manoj Sinha. 
 
 Sinha had visited the railway station as part of flagging off event for Mahamana Superfast train through live video conferencing from Varanasi by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. 
 
 A textile trader Nirmal Singh, who hails from Uttar Pradesh, said, “The demands put forth by UBRSS are genuine and for the benefit of entire north Indian community. It is highly condemnable the way the leaders were beaten up by the goons at the railway station.” 
 
 The Diamond City has a sizeable population of people from Uttar Pradesh (UP), Bihar and other states. Around 9 lakh workers are directly associated with the textile and diamond sectors, while around 2.5 lakh are in other businesses. 
 
 The rift in the party’s Surat unit came to the fore on June 2017 after former BJP councillor Yajuvendra Dubey along with some local leaders took out a rally under the banner of Uttar Bharatiya Rail Sangharsh Samiti, demanding more trains to Surat from UP and Bihar. Dubey had also invited local Congress leaders. 
 
 Earlier, during Lok Sabha elections in 2014, Anoop Rajput had put up anti-Modi posters in areas dominated by north Indian communities. Rajput, who is nephew of Congress leader Dhansukh Rajput and who was given Lok Sabha ticket in 2009, had showed Modi in conversation with MNS chief Raj Thackeray immediately after attacks on north Indians in Mumbai.
 
 “The party leaders have condemned the incident at the railway station where UBRSS leaders were beaten up. When we are preparing for assembly elections, this could boomerang on us in the migrant-dominated areas of the Diamond City,” a BJP leader said. 
 
 
