

 
 Each time, I see the progress in India in many small ways. The first time I took a plane was when I left for the US. Yesterday, I had a chance to meet some of the CEOs of the largest Indian airlines…there are close to 100 million people who fly in India now. The trends are all in the right direction. I met with some old friends in Bengaluru…they are starting and running schools. The ideas I heard are no different from what some of the best schools in the US are thinking about. India looks very entrepreneurial. People are very creative and determined. Short of traffic, most things seem to be getting better (laughs).
 
 
 That is getting better too. The carriers are doing a great job bringing more connectivity. Smartphone adoption is well under way. We’d like to see it grow even faster. We need to push the price point for entry-level smartphones further down…a $30 price point, I think, for it to truly reach the next level. And we would like to help play a role with Android.
 
 
 Every year we write what we call OKRs, our Objectives and Key Results for the year. I will share it with the entire company when I go back by second or third week of January. I have a long plane ride back in which to finalise my objectives.
 
 
 (laughs) Well, we’re hiring at  . You can join, and you’d get to know them as well.
 
 But 2016 was a big year for us. We made a big bet on machine learning and AI (artificial intelligence) and how we can use it to make our services better. We think of this as an important point of inflexion. This year we brought out products like the Google Assistant and Google Home. Pixel also has the assistant built in. I view that as a foundation for how we think about things for the next many years. A lot of our goals will be about increasing our focus on AI and bringing it to our users. 
 
 
 I don’t think about it that way. The scenarios I am excited by are bringing AI to assist humans to do many things better. It’s odd for me to think of this as a mutually competitive thing. I don’t think that’s how technology has been put to use historically.
 
 
 We want to always work on ambitious things and by definition, we won’t succeed in everything we do. It’s impossible to be very ambitious and not fail. When we write our company objectives, if we meet 70% of our objectives, we consider that as a success. If we meet 100% of our objectives, we always think we didn’t write them ambitiously enough. I think that’s fine. To me, what’s much more important is, are we continuing to innovate? Are we at the forefront of applying computer science to solve problems for our users consistent with our mission? I think we do that, and we have to do that every year, and in the future too. 
 
 
 It’s progressing remarkably fast. But I think it’s not going to be just about translation like you just described. You have to improve computing experience — hardware, software, everything so all of that can work in real time. This is what I talked about — a transition from a mobile-first to AI-first world. Intelligent computing must be available for you when you need it so you can interact with it in more natural ways. I’d be disappointed if in five years we are not able to do what you just described.
 
 
 I interviewed with Google on April 1 of 2004. They had launched Gmail, and it was invite-only. But Google also did an April Fools’ joke, and I wasn’t even sure if it had launched. So people were all asking me about Gmail and what I thought of it. But they hadn’t exactly given it to everyone. So, it was quirky, and I realised that they took things lightly, but deep down, they were serious about the work they were doing. That was my first impression of Google. 
 
 
 I do recall a meeting in which we were speaking. And from under the table, out came Larry. I didn’t know   was there. Our projector system wasn’t working …Larry was down there trying to fix it. 
 
 
 I see them every week. My exchanges with them are always a big part of how I think about what to do. I value that a lot.
 
 
 As we invest more in India and add more people, you will see products that are more substantial. 
 
 
 Could be new products, or whatever. Right now we come to India and see what users need most, and we address those things first. And we find, if you fix it here and learn it, it applies elsewhere as well. Maps Offline — I have used it in the US. Because I could be hiking or something and wouldn’t have connectivity. But Google station and the whole work we are doing around that… it’s something we are going to make available everywhere else. A lot of how Google Maps works today happened from India first. 
 
 Going by sheer scale, India is going to be an important market for technology over time.
 
 
 Yes. Take education for example. You would go horribly wrong with education if you just think bringing technology can improve it. You have to involve teachers, administrators — technology can only be part of the solution. But it is also true that when you bring technology into people’s lives, it has a profound impact. We do a lot of non-profit work as a part of Google.org and we work with non-profit organisations in education and healthcare.
 
 
 I view digitising payments as a big courageous move. These things can have tremendous multiplicative effects. India has a chance to leapfrog some of the things other countries have struggled with. We’re doing it with cellphones instead of landlines, and I hope instead of car ownership, we find a better way to manage that resource. Similarly in payments, the   stack in India is phenomenal. Something like that doesn’t exist in most countries. There is a lot more infrastructure here than people realise. The foundations have been set for digitising India on the payment side as well. I am not an expert on this, I have only spent a small amount of time on it. But I think it is a courageous move and from our perspective anything we can do to help, we would be glad to do so. 
 
