Hyderabad: From being a powerhouse of low-cost generics manufacturing, the Indian pharma industry must graduate to building competencies around drug discovery, said experts at the final day of BioAsia 2017 here.

 “In the pharma sector, we have been ‘Making in India’. I would urge the government and others to look at ‘Design, Develop and Make in India… China has established itself as the factory of the world, India has the opportunity to establish itself as the design centre,” G V K Biosciences CEO Manni Kantipudi said, adding that the focus on design and development of drugs will lead to creation of intellectual property in the country. Aurobindo Pharma president Satakarni Makkapati pointed out that India can emulate the Singapore model, where the country reinvented itself from an investment driven low-cost manufacturing destination to a research driven innovation-led biotech manufacturer. He added that one of the biggest challenges in pursuing R&D in this sector, which is very capital intensive and has a low rate of successful outcomes, is that ‘Risk Money’ is hardly available in the country. In fact, the trend is that the funding for R&D is shrinking even in developed pharma and biotech hubs such as San Francisco, he added. Apart from the lack of adequate capital, Hospira managing director Srini Srinivasan pointed out that shortage of skills is a major challenge. Ageeing, Kantipudi of GVKBio said: “We are weak in biology and genomics." Responding to industry concerns, department of commerce joint secretary Sudhanshu Pandey said the government has been trying to address the issue related to skills via its NSDC – sector skill council for life sciences, which focuses on building skill sets for this industry. He also added that the government is also working on creating a VC fund to finance such research activities. This apart, he said, the Indian Institute of Chemical Technology, which has several labs across the country, will offer its infrastructure to the industry for setting up incubation centres. 
 
 On industry trends, Pandey said biopharma has been growing at a faster rate in the world and the same will be replicated in India as well. “Since India already had the advantage of having a very large base of generic industry, it is natural that some of these players will gradually move to the biopharma side. But one has to remember that biopharma is a completely different game. It is much more complex and expensive and the gestation period of any project is very long,” he added. Meanwhile, speaking on the sidelines, Pandey said that pharma exports are expected to grow between 8-10% this fiscal. 
 
 
