Biharsharif/Patna: The   administration on Wednesday suspended a second year student of School of Historical Studies on the charge of sexually harassing his batchmate in January. But the action failed to satisfy other students who staged dharna outside the administrative office for the second consecutive day on Wednesday. They demanded legal action against the accused. The students also accused acting vice-chancellor   of suppressing the issue and telling them not to pursue the matter legally as it would dent the university image. 

 Later in the evening, Mohan resigned. In his letter to the chancellor, he wrote: “I express my sincere apology to the members of   for my inability to uphold their trust. I take moral responsibility for the problems that the university experienced in the last three days. I have relinquished all the administrative positions and I have also advised the chancellor to institute an inquiry into the period of my term as interim vice-chancellor. If I am found guilty of any willful error, I will quit the university.”
 
 Though he did not mention the incident of complaint of sexual harassment against two students and due to delay in initiating action against them a group of students held agitation against him on Wednesday, but the relinquishing of post by Mohan is apparently in that context. 
 
 University officials said the 2015-17 batch student was suspended on the recommendation of the internal complaints committee (ICC), which probed the allegations. “The victim had officially lodged a complaint of sexual harassment against another student to the   in January. The university received the ICC recommendation on March 20 and approved it on March 27 after consulting the authorities and the registrar’s advice. As an interim measure, the accused was shifted to another hostel on Tuesday and, after receiving the chancellor’s approval, he was suspended on Wednesday,” said a senior   official. “Further action will be taken in due course according to the ICC recommendation. Due process of law will be followed,” he added.
 
 “I’m waiting for an approval from the chairman of the governing body to take further action in the case as I have limited powers as acting VC of the university,” Mohan said.
 
 However, the students on dharna said they would continue with their protest until the university initiates legal action against the accused, who reportedly belongs to Bihar. 
 
 In a bid to complicate the matter, the supporters of the accused were also raising slogans against those supporting the victim. Sloganeering from both sides continued till evening.
 
 Nalanda SP Kumar Ashish also visited the university’s makeshift campus on Wednesday and talked to the protesting students as well as the university administration. “The university administration has informed us that the accused has been suspended. We will take action only upon a formal complaint in the matter from the university administration,” Ashish told TOI.
 
 
