KOCHI: The Kochi Metro Rail Ltd ( ) is looking for tie-up with hospitals for providing   to commuters in  . 

 The agency is planning to make medical aid available between 6am and 11pm when the trains are operational.
 
 The Metro agency wants qualified professionals to man the medical desk at each Metro station. An ambulance must be available at every 5km of the Metro alignment, said KMRL spokesperson.
 
 “We are looking for hospital which will provide the facility free of cost. In turn, KMRL will provide space for setting up the desk and also provide provisions to place advertisements,” said KMRL spokesperson.
 
 “The hospital will have to bring in all infrastructure and staff required for operating the facility,” said the spokesperson. 
 
 She also said that parking of ambulances and communication management would be the responsibility of the hospital. KMRL would not provide parking for these vehicles.
 
 The medical facility provider will have to provide discounted treatments to Kochi One, the Metro smart card holders, and additional medical facility for KMRL employees. They will also have to provide medical assistance to KMRL’s initiatives such as marathon, walkathon and cyclothon.
 
 The agency has invited an expression of interest for selecting medical partners. 
 
 “As we are not investing money in this, we have not invited tenders,” added the spokesperson.
 
 Meanwhile, KMRL has invited tenders for parking management at Aluva, Pulinchodu, Ambattukavu, Muttom, Kalamassery, Cusat, Edappally, Changampuzha Park and Palarivattom. 
 
 The agency has provided the provision for parking 364 cars and 680 bikes. There are two categories of parking facility -- open area and basement -- developed by the   (DMRC) and parking spaces developed by KMRL. The licencee would be able to collect parking fees as fixed by KMRL and they will not have any rights to alter the fees. KMRL will provide mobile applications to get live update on availability of parking space, with the option to pre-book parking facility.
 
 However, KMRL spokesperson said, “They have not finalized parking fees.”
 
