THANE: Day one of filing nominations for the corporation elections in Thane failed to see much enthusiasm from candidates as many refrained from filing their respective nominations probably due to uncertainty about the new filing mode, personal beliefs and defections apparently.

 According to officials, around 28 candidates across the city created their profiles on the election commission website- a precursor to filing nominations starting this time- but the filing was not yet done before the returning officers till Friday evening.
 
 Candidates are expected to upload their information online and take a print of the same and submit it to the respective returning officer. The nomination filing process for candidates wanting to contest the   was launched on January 27 and applications will be accepted till February 3. “Around 28 candidates created their profiles on the portal, but are yet to get hard copies to us till evening. Unless, we get the documents in person, the nomination process isn't considered complete,” informed a senior civic official.
 
 While few candidates restrained from going ahead claiming the day was inauspicious, few others have been reportedly asked by their respective parties to wait as the recent development of Sena BJP going solo could probably change the dynamics in several wards.
 
 “Few of my clients who are contesting the polls have deliberately deferred from filing nomination on Friday as it was considered inauspicious. They will upload their profiles soon and also complete the procedure maybe by next week,” said a strategist from Thane.
 
 Political parties are also doing a last minute revision of their list of candidates and deferring to announce their candidates fearing defections. Many parties are likely to issue nomination forms to aspirants at the last minute as many corporators could possibly switch over after getting better opportunities elsewhere following last minute bargains, explained an observer.
 
 “We are planning issuing of nominations afresh after possibility of an alliance failed with the Sena. The process is likely to be over by Monday following which our candidates will start filing their nominations,” said a senior BJP functionary.
 
 A Congress leader said the party was yet to announce nominations fearing defections due to possibility of better options elsewhere. “We will announce our nominations by Monday. Candidates are bound to switch parties ahead of the final date of nominations wanting to explore better opportunities elsewhere,” said a leader. 
 
