Chennai: Motorcycle marketleader Hero Motocorp is sitting on reserves of over Rs 4,500 crore despite spending heavily on R&D and capacity expansion. The company has also lined up capex of Rs 2,500 crore over the next two years. “This will be spent on new product development, digitisation, phase-wise capacity installation and expansion at its existing facility at Gujarat and upcoming plants at Andhra Pradesh & Bangladesh. The capex also includes investments towards upgradation & modernisation of plant machinery,” said Pawan Munjal, Hero Motocorp chairman, MD and CEO. The company is targeting double digit growth through new launches and fresh capacity installation. “With half a dozen new launches slated for FY’18, we will go for aggressive market share gains,” Munjal said. Over the past few years, Hero MotoCorp has made some long-term strategic investments. It has installed additional capacity through its new manufacturing plants at Neemrana in Rajasthan and at Halol in Gujarat and has also built a Global Parts Centre at Neemrana and a Rs 850 crore R&D facility — the Centre of Innovation and Technology (CIT) — in Jaipur. The company is also focussing on premium segment bikes and scooters as well as cost reduction to ensure both topline and bottomline growth. “With all these initiatives, we will further consolidate our leadership in FY’18 without compromising on the bottom line and our margins through judicious utilization of our resources and rationalization of costs. New world-class product development will continue to be a priority with enhanced focus on the scooters and the premium segments,” Munjal said. The company will roll out six new products this year across segments, senior officials said. Analysts said Hero Motocorp’s reserves are lower than its historic high of around Rs 6,500 crore 7 years ago though it has kept the company debt free. “Our cash reserves is not unusual given our balance sheet and revenue size. We will continue to do prudent fiscal and cash management delivering value creation for our stakeholders and use our resources aligned with our strategy,” said Niranjan Gupta, chief financial officer, Hero Motocorp.