GURUGRAM: A city court on Friday convicted 31 workers for rioting at   in 2012, in which a general manager died and over 100 people were injured. Thirteen of them have been charged with murder. The court will sentence them on March 17. 

 Additional and session judge Rajendra Pal Goel, however, acquitted 117 workers for lack of evidence. In all, 148 had been facing trial for the violence that rocked the automobile major in July 2012. Nine of them were in jail, while 139 were out on bail.
 
 "It was a historic judgment as for the first time so many people have been convicted of mob violence. This was one case in which so many people were facing trial," said  , Lal Singh Yadav.
 
 According to Maruti, the unrest had erupted when a worker beat up a supervisor and the workers' union prevented the management from disciplining the worker and blocked exit gates.
 
 However, the Left-leaning   Workers Union said a supervisor had abused and made discriminatory comments against a Dalit worker, leading to the violence. The company's general manager (HR) Awanish Kumar Dev was found burnt beyond recognition after workers reportedly torched a part of the factory. He was identified from a tooth implant. 
 
 Maruti shut down its Manesar plant for a month after the violence. 
 
 Unhappy with the judgment, defence advocate Rajkumar Pathak said, "We will challenge the order in high court." He said it was not proved who set the office on fire and what the cause of fire was. "The post-mortem report says the manager died due to suffocation," Pathak said.
 
 The legal defence team of senior advocates Rebecca Mammen John, RS Chema and Vrinda Grover said the fact that 117 workers have been acquitted of all charges "unequivocally demolishes the foundation of the prosecution's case".
 
 "Eighteen workers have been convicted only of grievous hurt and trespass. Thirteen workers have been convicted of murder. It is important to understand that these 13 are the office bearers of the union and the main leaders," said John. "They (workers) have been implicated in the case and management witnesses have deposed against them because they stand for rights of workers."
 
 Public prosecutor Anurag Hooda, however, said it was a very serious crime. "The court should not show any mercy to the accused," he said, demanding harsh punishment.
 
 "The stand of Maruti is vindicated. The court has sent a strong signal to the labour workers that they cannot take the law in their own hands, by committing violence of this magnitude, resulting in killing of a senior management official, and assault on more than 90 officials. Prima facie the judgment looks good but we would decide about challenging the same only after reading the judgment in detail," said Vikas Pahwa, counsel for Maruti Suzuki.
 
