VARANASI: A   workers was booked in a case of violating model code of conduct after he displayed posters bearing photographs of chief minister Akhilesh Yadav and Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi as Arjuna and Lord Krishna.

 Election officials in Chandauli district also lodged a case against a   leader for holding political event after seeking permission to host a non-political event. At least 28 vehicles escorting BSP’s zonal coordinator Munkad Ali were also challaned.
 
 Enthused by the news of the party’s alliance with Congress, a SP worker Sandeep Mishra, on Wednesday, displayed posters on the walls in Beniabagh, Chetganj and Sonia localities. In these posters Akhilesh was shown as legendary warrior of Mahabharata period Arjuna while Rahul was depicted as Lord Krishna. Within few hours of public display these posters went viral on social media after which the election officials took note of it.
 
 District election officer Yogeshwar Ram Mishra ordered to lodge an FIR in this connection on Wednesday late night. Inspector Chetganj Anupam Srivastava informed that an FIR under relevant sections of IPC and Representation of the People Act were lodged against Sandeep while printer of posters is being searched.
 
 Earlier, an event organised in the name of Jyoti Ba Phooley Jayanti at Bicchia area in Chandauli district also came under the scanner of  . Initially the flying squad constituted by the district election officer to monitor the proper promulgation of model code of conduct intercepted the fleet of BSP zonal coordinator Munkad Ali at Bicchia crossing when he was going to take part in the event. Officials challaned 28 vehicles of Ali’s fleet. Later, the event for which the BSP worker Shashikant had sought permission from the district administration terming it as non-political programme, also came under scanner. In the presence of Ali the merger of less known political party- Jai Samanata Dal with BSP was announced from the dais of event. Inspector Chandauli Ashutosh Ojha informed that a named FIR against Shashikant had been lodged under sections of Representation of the Peoples Act and IPC.
 
 On Thursday, the Cholapur police in Varanasi seized a pick-up van carrying the publicity materials of a BSP candidate. Police informed that during a checking drive near Murdaha crossing they seized a van carrying posters, banners, loud speakers and many other publicity articles of the BSP candidate.
 
 
