A drive on the highway from Agasaim to Margao can jolt one out of a stupor. To the right is the resplendent green of rice fields. Paddy in all its post-monsoon glory, brought to life by the sweat and loving care of local villagers. To the left, glorious green—something of a rare sight these days in Goa—has given way to a wanton scarring of the earth. Trees have been felled, mud has been dumped, tin sheds have cropped up and a cement factory—for the construction of the new Zuari bridge—will overnight replace the rice and vegetable fields tended over generations. Development in all its muscular forms has descended on yet another village in Goa. Work on the approach roads to the new bridge began a month or two ago. Some 30 houses, eight crosses, a small chapel, acres of fertile land and traditional occupations will be hit by the second bridge. A small price to pay for world class infrastructure, the government would argue.

 They had no clue their lives were soon to be upturned. They read it in the papers, the villagers said. Governments have a way of doing that. Taking us completely by surprise. Delivering a fait accompli. Decision made, the bulldozers move in.
 
 A new bridge for Zuari is unquestionably needed. No arguments there. Village voices, too, have been quelled since by assurances of adequate compensation. But it is still worth analysing the fine print for major infrastructure unveiled at the fag end of a government.
 
 When he laid the foundation stone for the new bridge on January 1, 2016, Union minister  , promised the eight-lane cable-stayed bridge would become “a world attraction”. Why not? How many bridges in third world countries have a restaurant and viewing gallery (“to showcase Goa’s history” with a light and sound show) perched on a tower? Estimates of costs for the bridge alone have been scaled up from Rs 2,700 crore to Rs 3,500 crore in a matter of months. The construction of approach roads pegged at Rs 600 crore have been revised to Rs 1,000 crore.
 
 Mind-boggling figures, wasteful expenditure, absence of transparency and liability, skewed priorities and piecemeal planning have been the order of business in Goa’s ‘development’ over the years. Braced by its majority in the last election, the BJP has been unapologetic in its pursuit of big-ticket projects, both public and private. The   (IPB), constituted to “fast-track” approval, has been criticized for its overriding powers and lack of public scrutiny. A clutch of petitions are currently before the high court challenging the constitutional validity of the IPB and its green light to some projects—among them an eco-tourism resort in Netravali promoted by defence minister Manohar Parrikar’s son, Abhijat.
 
 If the BJP fails to make a comeback in 2017, the IPB would, without a doubt, become the first casualty of a new government. Like the PDAs which have acquired notoriety as hubs for kickbacks to those who don’t make it to the ministry, in the public mind the IPB, as a nodal agency for far larger projects, is perhaps worse.
 
 This is turning out to be an election without any major issue, except for the prevailing undercurrent of anti-incumbency that has spurred a somewhat unified move from both, the right-wingers and the left of centre to send the current lot in government packing. Much of the goodwill the BJP earned beyond its core voter constituency in 2012 has been undone by the party’s cynical compromise on corruption—it inducted both   and Pandurang Madkaikar—in its urgency to return to office. The hypocrisy of the action found resonance in the Church’s directive to voters released last week. “Voters are often tricked by those in power into believing that political opponents are corrupt by appointing inquiry commissions, filing criminal chargesheets that hardly ever result into a criminal conviction or recovery of losses; more often than not, people are told some years later that there was no scam involved.”
 
 Whichever party, or coalition of parties and individuals takes over the next government, these inescapable challenges will confront it: finalizing the Regional Plan, sorting out the MoI issue, a decision on the floating casinos and the future of mining.
 
 The current government conveniently evaded finalizing RP 2021 or presenting another as promised in its 2012 manifesto, thus encouraging backroom lobbying by real estate interests that hijacked the outline development plans in Panaji, Margao, Mapusa and Mormugao, as this newspaper reported.
 
 A new government takes over in the 50th anniversary year of Goa’s Opinion Poll. The actual date went largely unnoticed in the swirl of unfolding politics. But it is a milestone worth noting for where we thought we were going and where we’ve ended up: a state with no long-term planning, a tourist destination with no scientific garbage management, a cosmopolitan hub with few employment avenues and a young, educated class just desperate to get out.
 
