The Bengal audience knows   inside out. So, when   dropped in at our office on Monday with his Begum Jaan  , her on-screen lieutenants   and  , filmmaker   and scriptwriter Kausar Munir, the question hanging heavy in the air was: will   work in Bengal? But that question never hit the airwaves, as first Bhatt and then Srijit revealed in the course of a freewheeling chat that Begum Jaan doesn’t start in 1947; it has a very contemporary beginning in Delhi’s Connaught Place!

 
 When it is a Vidya interview, then the first question has to be on Kolkata. We ask her if — after multiple films with a Bengal connect — she’s finally getting bored with the city. “No, not at all! It’s either a Bengali character, a Bengali story or a Bengali director. That’s on my contract! If you can give all three, great!” she quipped. “She wanted to throw in some Bengali abuses in Begum Jaan,” Srijit adds, amidst the laughter. “But I told her, since you’re from Punjab, you can’t abuse in Bengali yaar! Very unwillingly, she said, ok, if you insist….”
 Did she find any similarity between Begum Jaan and other strong characters she’s played in films like Paa and Kahaani, we ask. “While they were strong characters, Begum Jaan is powerful. There’s a very thin line between being strong and being powerful. She revels in her own power; she stands up for herself. She doesn’t need anyone; she needs no crutches,” Vidya says. “She’s not ashamed to be who she is; which is where I think her biggest strength comes from. I think I’ve not come across such a woman on or off screen. That’s what drew me to her. When I saw the script, I was waiting to live her. And that attitude! I’ve seen a lot of women with attitude. But she’s… you know, I love it when I see a woman with attitude. Lines by Kausar, of course, but... And the fact that a man had written this really drew me to it even more.”
 
 
 Mahesh Bhatt, who is sitting cross-legged and sipping on a basil seed drink, says the biggest reason for remaking Rajkahini as Begum Jaan is its brilliant original story. “People may assume it’s a rehash, a cut-and-paste job of Rajkahini, but they have to experience Begum Jaan to understand what Srijit has been haranguing off the rooftop and I’ve been doing on the ground,” he tells us. 
 Interestingly, Mahesh Bhatt lets it slip that Begum Jaan is indeed different from its Bengali predecessor. “Unlike Rajkahini, which ends at the birth of a nation, this narrative begins in 2016 and then takes a full circle.”
 The Arth maker goes on to add that he discovered another facet to Srijit’s story when he visited the Kalighat temple on Monday morning. “The narrative of Begum Jaan is sourced from the greatest character, whom most of India and Kolkata reveres — Ma Kali, the mother who’s compassionate and can look after her flock, and at the same time, take out her sword and fight the asuras. That’s the Jekyl and Hyde kind of personality of Begum Jaan. And the women who live with her — 10 hands of  , 10 women — all tied to her. So, I’d say it’s a narrative that has been told again and again in different ways for centuries. That’s what Begum Jaan is all about. She uses the men because 
 she knows they have the keys to power centres. But once those men tell her that the power centres are crumbling, she says, ‘F**k you. I’ll take care of myself’.”
 
 
 Srijit, who is all ears listening to Bhatt saab’s interpretation, took our next question in his stride: did he choose Rajkahini’s story for his debut directorial in Bollywood or did it happen by chance? “I had no plans. I was in Mumbai to check the subtitles of Rajkahini. That is where Bhatt saab, after watching it, held my hand for a minute.” “I think I started crying,” Bhatt saab adds. “I wrote a piece for Calcutta Times. Srijit asked me to write 350 words or something. I was so consumed! I watched the film for the fifth time the other day and I find it a very enduring piece 
 of work.”
 Srijit tells us that he had offers to make Baishey Srabon, Hemlock Society and even Chotuskone in Hindi. “But I always wanted to make a film on my own terms. I’d rather make films in Bengali than compromise and make something that would go against my grain. In 2012, I had turned down an offer to do Hemlock... with an A-level hero. But here was a man (pointing to Bhatt saab) who was telling me you can tell a story on your own terms; no one will interfere. Bhatt saab, who had made films like Saransh in his 30s, tells me that I won’t interfere, I won’t even come to the edit, and he doesn’t! This vote of confidence was something I always looked forward to,” he says. “And it makes me really happy that my first Hindi film is not a project, not something that has three item numbers, great music, not something to be consumed, like, ‘This is my toothpaste to you’. It is not toothpaste.”
 
 
 We want to know if Srijit thinks he’ll pass the Bollywood litmus test. “I refuse to put any burden on the shoulders of Begum Jaan. It’s not a project or a test case. It’s a piece of me, Vidya, Bhatt saab, Gauahar, Pallavi, Kausar, who has written the brilliant lines,” Srijit explains. “On the other hand, if I had designed a film sticking to the conventional niceties of the Bollywood framework, If I had put in Arijit’s songs, made it a love story, cut out graphic violence and sexual scenes so that I get a nice, happy, fat ‘U’, which gives me the right satellite price, and I ticked all the right boxes — the day I do that I’d say yes, this is a litmus test. But this film is not from the lab.”
 Bhatt saab feels that Begum Jaan “flowed out of a raw wound; it’s not the work of a craftsman. It’s not a Bahubali or a Dangal.” He compares the film to a grain of sand that torments an oyster into creating a pearl. “It’s people who attach a price tag to that pearl. The oyster is just interested in purging that grain of sand. The movies that define me, will be in my obituary, like Saransh, Jakhm come from my life burns. That’s why 
 they have endured. And I can say the same for Begum Jaan.” Continuing with passion, he adds, “These are dark times, and now, the discourse to the nation needs to be hijacked by filmmakers, storytellers, artists, because the politicians have led the country astray.”
 
 
 Then we ask the questions we’ve been wanting to ask for a long time. Is Srijit a hard taskmaster, we ask the lovely ladies. “Don’t get them started! Gauahar is already smacking her lips; Pallavi is sharpening her nails…,” Srijit quips, only to be surprised by Pallavi’s answer — “I disagree with this.”“If somebody knows his craft, his vision, what he wants from us, how can that person be a taskmaster?” Pallavi asks. “We were never really scared of him. We wanted to hear what he had to say next. He never had to raise his voice at us,” Gauahar adds. Srijit takes the cue to reveal how he prepared the team for the gruelling shooting schedule. “We had this workshop a month ahead of the shoot and discussed, dissected and debated every character, their back stories and what not. First we discussed the actresses themselves — their personal issues, grief — and then moved on to their characters. So the team knows the deepest secrets about each other that their family members also don’t know. They used to often break down and cry, and there was no shame in that.”
 Vidya reveals a bit more about what they went through. “It was trial by fire for us,” she says. “Twenty days before the shoot, the set came apart in a storm! There were lots of obstacles in our way. So you see this film couldn’t have been made if he (Srijit) wasn’t driving it. His madness motivated all of us to go on.”
 “It was either hot or raining or there was a storm, people were falling sick, someone’s sodium level was falling, someone was fainting. But we all pulled through because we had each other and also, the way Srijit handled us. He never let us see what he was going through,” Vidya says, giving his director a smile. Srijit feels that such was the passion of overcoming the obstacles that Nature could throw at them that the leading ladies — whom he calls his “warriors” — drove on through heat, rain and thunder. “In fact, these girls didn’t even take pee breaks for hours!”
 “And by the time the climax came, we were used to peeing in the bushes,” Gauahar adds 
 with a laugh.
 Kausar, who’s sitting quietly beside Srijit all this while, has a point to add here. “Srijit is very clear about what he wants. And once he’s chosen you, he has faith in you. As a technician, I attach a lot of value to that. Because that gives me the confidence to do my work.”
 
 
 For Srijit, the biggest problem with our times is that people want to brush problems under the carpet. “That’s unlike the West, where the Holocaust gives you 40 years of popular culture so that a kid in   today knows what Auschwitz was, knows what went on in the concentration camps. But here, you ask a kid about a Noakhali or Amritsar, you’ll draw a blank. We don’t know that a Godhra can be compared to Noakhali — it draws on the same malaise. So, even if something happened a long time ago, we have to look it in the eye. So if there was graphic violence, exploitation, you have to show these. Begum Jaan shows that.” Sharing the experience of Rajkahini, the director remembers, “My own mother came out shaking from the hall, and said, ‘Why do you make films like these? I’m old; I can’t take this! It’s disturbing.”
 
 
 With such a grueling shoot, how did the girls ‘detox’? “I realised I can’t go around slapping people anymore! So, I had this reality check after going back to Mumbai. I would have loved to take a two-month break after that, but I got barely two weeks,” Vidya tells us.
 For Gauahar, it was a really tough shoot. “We’d work 10-12 hours straight on a good day. At that time, we weren’t even thinking, okay chaar ghanta so rahe hain or anything, but once it was over, we were aching all over, sleepy and what not. That’s because that adrenaline rush was gone.”
 “I had to go for a tough shoot in Manali after that,” Pallavi says, “but the grit I got from this shoot kept me going.”
 Apparently, the shoot saw its share of injuries too. Vidya thinks the hard terrain was to blame, since at least 30 people injured their feet, including Flora, who plays one of the characters in the brothel and tore a muscle during the shoot. “Flora tried to get up but realised that she couldn’t walk one step. Everyone thought I was the villain, obviously. We had to shoot that scene that same day. After a long attempt involving several takes, she gave the shot. Then she broke down. That shot is there in the film.”
 
 Bhatt saab feels that even lives can be sacrificed for an idea. “That’s why there’s this Sahir Ludhianvi song in the film that says, Woh subah hum hi se aayegi instead of Woh subah kabhi to aayegi. No messiah is going to descend from the sky, no politician is going to take us to the promised land. It has to be like what the Buddha said, ‘Swayam pramanah, swayam prakasha’. Be enlightened to yourself — and that’s what 
 Begum Jaan is.”
 
 
 
