LUCKNOW: The doughty warrior of Indian politics,  , who has weathered many a political storm in his more than half a decade-long political journey, has been challenged by his son to claim his political legacy. 

 The shift in power has put a question mark on his political future — with age and health not on his side, will this dhartiputra (son of the soil) of UP survive this political battle to emerge the undisputed leader again or fade into the sunset? The turn of events in the last few days point towards the fact that he has lost majority of the support of party functionaries and legislators, which could be because   stands for youth and symbolises the future of the party. 
 
 Mulayam, however, will not let his political obituary be written in this manner. Having been dislodged from the post of the national president of SP by Akhilesh, whom he had made the chief minister of the country’s largest state,   is gearing up to retaliate and has called a meeting of the national executive of the party on January 5 to decide its future course of action. 
 
 Prominent among those who had attended Akhilesh’s show on Sunday were Ram Gopal Yadav, Kiranmoy Nanda and Naresh Agarwal, who have been dismissed from the party by Mulayam for “antiparty activity”. All three had grown in the party and attained positions in Rajya Sabha with his blessings. 
 
 For Mulayam, it is now a big challenge to hold the national convention of the party at the same venue. In his long political career, he uprooted the powerful Congress from UP, dared storm troopers of the BJP-RSS-Bajrang Dal combine in the Ramjanmabhoomi movement and, in his own words, in order to uphold the spirit of the Constitution and law of the land, he ordered firing on Hindu karsewaks to protest the disputed Babri mosque in Ayodhya in 1990. 
 
 In spite of formidable opponents in Congress and BJP, Mulayam became chief minister of the state thrice and formed government in 2012 with historic mandate, having Akhilesh as party’s face. Despite opposition from his brother and senior party member Shivpal Yadav and a section of others, Mulayam had then handed over the reins of the state to Akhilesh and declared him as his political successor.
 
