Chennai: The on-going driver unrest that has affected cab aggregators Ola and Uber has also had an impact on the sale of car models which were popular in this segment.  According to auto industry sources, demand has come down by a staggering 30-40% in models preferred by this segment although the percentile is different for different vehicle manufacturers. Car financiers also say that the overall segment, which grew by 60% this fiscal over last, has already taken a hit. “For the last 2-3 months this segment has been going through a difficult phase and definitely there has been an impact. In terms of the passenger vehicle industry, around 12-13% of the total sales comes from the taxi aggregator segment but March retail has shown a jump in personal usage rather than commercial usage sales,” said the head of one of the top three vehicle financiers. Sources say companies like Toyota Kirloskar Motor, Tata Motors, Mahindra & Mahindra among others have been impacted. Take Toyota Kirloskar Motor whose Etios and Liva models are popular in this segment. According to sources, the disruption in the taxi aggregator segment has had a 20-30% impact on the company’s sales to this niche. Autocos, however, say that the segment’s allure will continue despite such hiccups. “There may be an impact but this segment is the way ahead and these issues will get sorted out. Besides, as one part of the segment faces challenges other opportunities have opened up for us in the form of rent-a-car companies like Zoom which are buying our vehicles,” said Pravin Shah, president & chief executive-automotive division, Mahindra & Mahindra. Sources say the drop in driver earnings has also prompted financiers to take longer to finance vehicles in this segment particularly since driver-owners started returning the cars once their ability to pay the EMI came under pressure. “This disruption may also prompt drivers-owners to go for hatchbacks instead of sedans to optimise EMI costs,” said the marketing head of a mass market car company.The car aggregator segment had turned into a lucrative niche for vehicle manufacturers. According to a recent study by ICRA, the taxi segment will account for 15-17% of the domestic passenger vehicle sales by 2020. As this segment has grown, so has the fleet demand, thus emerging as an important target niche for automobile manufacturers. Indeed big ticket global and Indian vehicle makers have tied up with these taxi services — M&M has tied up with Ola and Tata Motors with Uber in India for example.