Pune: In a first, city-based Automotive Research Association of India ( ) recently began on-road testing of vehicles to collate data about tail-pipe emissions.

 The move is a part of its project that aims to collect data for real-world testing from 2023. Unlike the US, only lab testing of emissions is currently mandatory in India.
 
 However, the on-road testing will be compulsory in India too by 2023, three years after the implementation of Bharat Stage-VI regime on April 1, 2020. Bharat Stage norms are similar to the now in vogue Euro-VI norms in the US that brings down allowable emissions substantially.
 
 Experts consider the on-road testing to be a way more efficient model to measure emissions. “If you carefully study emissions notification under BS-VI, it prescribes the closeness with which real emissions happen with respect to the standard lab conditions… We will start collecting data (for BS-IV compliant vehicles) on some sections of expressways, national and state highways, city and village roads. This will be done in a mix and match manner,” Rashmi Urdhwareshe, director, ARAI, said.
 
 After a substantial amount of data is collected both for BS-IV and BS-VI vehicles, a variable factor (for emission limits) will be laid down and vehicle makers will be expected to abide by it. So, makers will have a defined factor for on-road emissions (for instance, two times) when compared to the laboratory conditions.
 
 The on-road data collection will continue even after April 1, 2020 to measure emissions under BS-VI, the government has outlined in its draft notification. Currently, it is anybody’s guess as to how much each vehicle emits on road.
 
 In advanced countries, it is easier to lay down emission norms because road conditions are standard. In India, however, given the poor and non-standard nature of roads it becomes difficult to lay down the conditions for on-road testing. “With the data collection kicking in now, it’s time to standardize road conditions too. The test cycle condition based on road quality is still being worked upon,” Urdhwareshe said.
 
 However, automakers need not wait till 2023 to usher in emission-efficient vehicles as many of them already have the technology, which they are using to sell vehicles abroad.
 
 
