HYDERABAD: Hyderabad likes to see itself as perhaps the country's most modern city, but it cuts a sorry figure when it comes to the retrograde practice of cruelty against women by husbands and in-laws, in short, domestic violence. The city ranks second in the country on   and third on dowry deaths.It is also high up on the list of crimes like rape and  . The perception that Hyderabad is unsafe for women is confirmed by the latest round of data released by the   ( ).The report shows that domestic violence increased by 24.6% from 2014 to 2015, though dowry deaths decreased by 15%.

 It throws light on the likeliest places women may encounter sexual harassment, who are the likeliest offenders, what kind of sexual harassment is the most rampant, women of which age group are the most vulnerable to rape and who are the likeliest perpetrators of the crime. To tackle the menace of sexual harassment, the police launched the so-called `She Team' in October 2014. At least 800 offenders have been caught till date by the squad.
 
 Crime experts are worried by the growing number of cases of cruelty by husbands and inlaws and of dowry deaths. From 2010 to 2015, as many as 8,489 cases of cruelty by husbands and relatives were registered in Hyderabad, compared to 13,550 cases in Delhi, the top city on the list under this crime head, 4,878 in Vijayawada (which is third), 2,916 in Mumbai and 2,835 in Bengaluru. In the same period, the number of registered dowry deaths registered in Hyderabad was 170, preceded by Bengaluru with 267 cases and Delhi with 326, and followed by Mumbai by 98 and Vijayawada with 86.
 
 However, cops say that because of proactive policing, more cases may be coming to light in Hyderabad and that such crimes may be getting underreported in other places.“There are different reasons for domestic violence. I have asked my officers not to deny the lodging of any complaint. We promptly register a case, which other states or cities may not be doing,“ says additional commissioner of police (crime) Swathi Lakra. “Our approach is to probe cases and not harass innocents. The She Team and   (set up to provide legal assistance to women victims of crime) help victims to approach the police freely with the assurance that their identities will be kept anonymous.“
 
 Though the police's response to complaints by women in distress is prompt, there is a delay in the investigation of cases, especially of domestic violence, says M Rekha, Hyderabad secretary of the National Federation of Indian Women. She emphasizes that the She Team should not leave matters just at counselling victims, but should ensure that cases are registered for every offence, probes conducted and justice done.
 
 In the past two years, the police have booked 800 offenders, including 222 minors, for harassing women. Most offenders were found to be in the 18-20 age group (41%), followed by those aged 21-40 years (35%).
 
