PUDUCHERRY: The dawn-to-dusk   called by DMK, Left parties and VCK and allies of the ruling Congress party on Saturday to register their protest against the ‘undemocratic and autocratic style of functioning’ of lieutenant governor   and nomination of three BJP loyalists as members of legislative assembly in the Union territory passed off peacefully without any major incidence of violence barring a few stray incidents. The ruling Congress party extended support to the bandh.

 All the shops, trade houses, business and commercial establishments downed their shutters. Buses, autos and tempos were off the roads. Private schools and colleges were closed. Vegetable, fruit, flower and fish markets wore a deserted look. Restaurants, hotels and petty tea shops were also closed. Cinema theatres suspended the shows until evening. The windscreens of four   state transport corporation buses, a   road transport corporation bus, a lorry and a van were damaged in stone pelting incidents. Partymen from DMK, Left parties and VCK led by the local leaders undertook a rally in the town. They marched past the important thoroughfares in town limits.
 
 Tension prevailed when volunteers of Youth Congress attempted to picket the Raj Nivas, official residence of lt governor. Police used mild force to prevent them from removing the barricades to picket the Raj Nivas, A section of protestors burnt effigies of Bedi and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Police arrested close to 1,000 people including MLAs when they staged protests at various centres in the territory. However they were released later.
 
 Meanwhile a few BJP cadres created a flutter when they attempted to scale over the entry gate of the legislative assembly and hoist BJP flag. Police managed to foil their attempts and disperse the mob. Earlier, undeterred by the bandh call, Bedi undertook weekend rounds with her team in bi-cycles and visited the NSS headquarters and interacted with the cadets and students. 
 
 Speaking to a section of reporters she claimed that the Union government nominated three people as members of legislative assembly and she administered the oath of office and secrecy to them after they submitted memorandums claiming that the Congress government was not keen in holding the swearing-in ceremony.She wondered why political parties have called for a bandh against her for doing public service and said bandhs will lead to result in loss of revenue for the government. Chief minister V   said the bandh was largely peaceful without any violence. He said he briefed Congress vice president   on the present scenario in the territory and nomination of three people as members of legislative assembly without consulting the government. He said the Congress leader will raise the issue in the Parliament.
 
