Bhopal: Over five months after the union government asked all states to allow transgender people to use any public toilet of their choice, Bhopal is set to become the first state capital to come up with an exclusive toilet for the transgender community. It will be inaugurated by Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan.

 The new public restroom will be located in Mangalwara locality of the Walled City, an area where transgender people are predominant residents, and would have three signs on display – male, female and transgender. Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) mayor Alok Sharma had first put forward the initiative in September 2016.
 
 Sharma, who spent his childhood in the Walled City, said that he was well aware of the problems faced by people from the transgender community and decided to take up the construction of a separate toilet. Sharma added that his move was in accordance with the 2014 Supreme Court verdict which directed that separate toilets be built for members of the transgender community in public places
 
 In April this year, the union ministry of drinking water and sanitation had issued guidelines to state governments asking them to put in efforts to make people from the transgender community feel as equal citizens. It had further emphasised that transgender people should have the freedom to use community or public toilets of their choice.
 
 The separate toilet for transgenders comes following a similar initiative in Panjab University this year. A transwoman had been demanding for three years that the university provide a separate toilet for transgender people. Her relentless struggle for this finally bore fruit this year.
 
 The transgender community in Bhopal meanwhile has welcomed the initiative. Sanjana, a transgender who has been hailed as a sanitation champion by the union government said, “The construction of a toilet for transgenders in an area predominantly resided by them is just a start. Now the government has to start looking at construction of toilets in areas where they are need the most – hospitals, airports, railway stations among others.”
 
 “In most cases, we use restrooms meant for women. Using public restrooms in areas where we live is not an issue. But in areas like New Bhopal, we are forced to wait until the entire toilet is empty,” said Babita, another transgender.
 
 Mangalwara, a locality situated in the heart of the main retail market of the Walled City, is home to nearly 1,000 members from the transgender community. They are locally referred to as ‘Mangalwaras’.
 
 In Madhya Pradesh, the transgender community has had considerable representation in elections and has won in several districts as well. In 2001, the Miss Universe Eunuch was held in the state capital.
 
 
