New Delhi: While corporations claim to have initiated a   on mosquito breeding, this is turning out to be the   year in the last five in terms of   and chikungunya spread: till July 8, the city has reported 110 chikungunya and 60 dengue cases. 

 In 2016, just 14 cases of dengue were reported by this time. In 2015, the number was 21, whereas it was 13 a year before that. As far as chikungunya is concerned, no cases were reported by this time in the last three years. However, in 2012, five chikungunya cases were recorded till July 8.
 
 Five-year data on vector-borne diseases have thrown up an interesting pattern: while their incidence remains negligible till May, the numbers pick up thereafter — the upward trajectory continues till October. Sample this: from 2012 to 2016, no dengue cases were reported in January, except the first month of 2013 when there were two cases. In January 2017, there were six dengue and 20 chikungunya cases. No chikungunya case was reported in January of any of the last  . 
 
 North corporation mayor Preeti Agrawal told TOI: “Domestic breeding checkers are conducting door-to-door surveys. They are checking rooftop tanks and coolers and spraying anti-larva agents in stagnant water on a warfooting.” The results are obviously not there, though. Agrawal said the corporation had a plan in place for monsoon. She also denied reports that the three civic bodies had underreported cases of vector-borne diseases. “A majority of patients are from neighboring areas who came to the capital for treatment,” she said.
 
 According to an official report released by the civic bodies, north corporation areas have reported three cases of chikungunya till July 8, south corporation two and east corporation four. Three cases have been reported from the Delhi cantonment area. There have been no reports from NDMC areas. An   official said addresses of 55 chikungunya patients could not be found. Another 43 cases were placed under the “untraceable after investigation” category. 
 
 According to the same report, only eight cases of dengue were reported from areas under the three corporations. The south corporation, meanwhile, has set up a monsoon control room at its headquarters and one each at every zone to combat any emergency arising due to rain. Citizens can call in at a toll-free number (1266) or two other numbers — 23220016 & 23220010. “We have put up details of mosquito breeding checkers online,” Neema Bhagat, EDMC mayor, said.
 
