SHILONG: The   has urged the Centre to facilitate opening of 22 more   ( ) along the  , chief minister   informed the assembly on Monday. 

 "Based on  , there is scope for setting up more border haats," he said. He added that of the 22 new haats, the Centre agreed to sanction four. He said the state government is following this up with the Centre to facilitate commissioning of new haats," he said.
 
 The two existing haats at Kalaichar and Balat have not only promoted trade but has also strengthened ties between people of the two countries, the chief minister said. He added that action will taken against alleged illegal businesses at the Balat border haat in East Khasi Hills district.
 
 Replying to a   moved by opposition leader Donkupar Roy in the assembly, Mukul informed the house that based on a complaint by an RTI activist, the deputy commissioner has ordered an inquiry by a district magistrate. "On receiving the report, necessary action will be taken as it is a matter of concern," he said. 
 
 "There is no halt to export of limestone from the state provided the rules are followed," Mukul told the house while replying to a question raised by Opposition leader Donkupar Roy. 
 
 In pursuant to the directions issued by the Meghalaya high court on June 30, 2015 and November 26, 2015 in a case involving Tangkham Sangma versus the State of Meghalaya and others, the government has taken several measures to regulate mining of minerals, including limestone, to facilitate mining and export of limestone, said the chief minister. 
 
 For approval of mining plan in respect of minor minerals, a committee with members from the forest and environment departments has been constituted, he added. 
 
 Sharing the concern of members of the house, the chief minister said the government is trying to simplify rules to make it easier for miners to export limestone. "The government has constituted District Environment Impact Assessment Authority and District Expert Appraisal Committee for granting of environmental clearance in case of mining," he added.
 
 District screening committees have been formed involving MLAs for equitable distribution of development schemes along the inter-state and international border in the state, minister in charge of border areas development, HDR Lyngdoh, informed the assembly. 
 
 Replying to a query by opposition member Witting Mawsor, the minister said population structure of border villages is the baseline for allotting schemes. He added that villages located 20 kms from the zero point on the Indo-Bangla border are being considered for the schemes. 
 
