MYSURU: Bharat   and Guides, in association with International Youth Fellowship (IYF, South Korea), conducted National Education Leaders’ Meet at Adakanahalli Industrial Area as part of the national   for   Jamboree on Monday. 

 IYF, through its various activities like personality-development programmes, has been changing the mindset of youths around the globe, and is well received in many countries and their leading educators. In 2013, IYF founded World Education Leaders’ Forum (WELF), an open convention of mutual interchange among the presidents of numerous universities for a change in higher education. 
 
 The National Educational Leaders’ Meet is aimed at bringing together educational leaders and intellectuals from across India to a common platform to discuss the need for incorporation of “character education” into contemporary curriculum, and also introduce the concept of “Mind Education”. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, Kim Jae Hong, general secretary of IYF Education, said: “Mind Education is like the blueprint of a building — depending on how you draw a blueprint, the structure of the building shapes up. The mindset of the people is just the same — depending on what kind of mindset you have, your life will take shape. For the first time, we are invited for Jamboree. This is our first-ever meeting in Karnataka. People from Benglauru have also requested us to conduct a similar programme in the capital.” 
 
 Mysuru South block education officer (BEO) Shivaramegowda, who attended the programme, said: “The event was innovative and interesting. It was aimed at enlightening youths and motivate them to take the right steps for nation-building”. 
 
 Educationist K Anand, director of primary education, and DDPIs and BEOs of various districts attended the two-hour meeting.
 
 
 
 Nearly 150 participants donated blood at a blood donation camp organized at a makeshift hospital put up by KR Hospital Blood Bank. Majority of the blood belonged to ‘O’ positive group. Prior to the camp, an eight-member team from the blood bank, led blood bank officer Dr Manjunath, examined the donors’ height, weight and their haemoglobin levels. Among the donors, 90% were boys. Siddesh, who donated blood for the first time, said he was happy to donate blood. Third-time donor Kemparaju said the gesture will help those in need.
 
 
 
 
 Over 5,000 participants took part in Yoga Day celebration. During the 90-minute event, experts from Mysuru performed 8 asanas which were later performed by the participants. Due to issues in the public address system (mike), some participants found it hard to follow the instructions given by the experts. 
 
 A colourful marchpast was also presented by the participants.
 
 
