PANAJI: Chief minister   stayed away from the dais but ‘blessed’ each special athlete individually as they prepare to take part in the 2017 Special Olympics World Winter Games in Austria later this month.
 
  The existing code of conduct meant the chief minister didn’t want to take any chances. He chose to sit among the audience, didn’t give any speech either and instead had a quiet word with all of them. For the athletes, and even the lone coach, it must have meant a lot.
  
  “Which chief minister takes time out and attends a function like ours without getting the chance to sit on the dais or make a lofty speech? The athletes were all pleased after getting to speak with the chief minister,” said  ,  , Special Olympics Bharat, during the send off ceremony in the presence of Commissioner for Disabilities Anuradha Joshi and Area Director (Special Olympics) Vrushali Cardozo.
  
  “The chief minister has always been helpful and I must also make a special mention of the director of sports  . He has helped us a lot all along,” said Vaz.
  
  A delegation of 90 athletes and 23 coaches, led by Victor Vaz, will represent Special Olympics Bharat in seven sports at the Games.  , Bibi Aisha Bijapuri, Ruturaj Gokuldas Sawant, Isaac Moulabaksh Bijapur, Shanur Jaicrula Nasargi, Hanumant Tammana Bandivar (all athletes) and coach Mahadev Hanamant Shinde are all set for a once in a lifetime experience.
  
  Interestingly, six athletes were handpicked for the first preparatory camp to select the squad and all of them made it to the final squad, thanks to the persistence of the coaches and determination of the athletes.
  
  Goan athletes will participate in floorball and floor hockey.
  
  “They have been training for 14 months and there is a huge change in them. It’s not a joke that they have reached so far,” said Vaz, while speaking about his athletes with intellectual disabilities.
  
  Goan athletes have won a total of eight medals, including five gold, in the last three editions. The first gold was won in 2005 (Japan), followed by two each in 2009 and 2013. This time too, there is hope. And like the chief minister wished, possibly he could honour all of them without any restrictions – from the Election Commission of India -- when they return home.
  
