LUDHIANA: A group of residents of Kamalpura village in   is dealing with drug menace in its own way. 

 After preparing a data bank of addicts, who have also been inciting others to take to drugs, villagers have uploaded their particulars on YouTube, while making an appeal to their parents to help them mend their ways. They have also cautioned the parents that failure to do so would lead to police complaint and social boycott.
 
 Villagers, who were part of the meeting that decided this action, said the entire proceeding of the meeting was video recorded and names of 33 addicts along with their family members were taken down. The recording was later uploaded on YouTube. The video has received 1,495 views and four likes. They added that it was discussed that every addict would be given a final chance to mend his ways.
 
 In the video, the person addressing the gathering says that prominent villagers will first visit the house of each addict and after taking permission from him and his parents will get them treated so that they live a healthy life. He adds that if the addict doesn’t agree, they will seek help of the police to tackle him legally.
 
 “In 2015, we had given a list of 65 drug suppliers to the police, but nothing happened. We need a sustainable campaign to tackle the issue,” said Nachatar Singh Grewal, who constituted the committee for action on drug abuse. In April 2015, after the residents of Jagraon and some neighbouring villages had launched a campaign against drug abuse, gurdwara granthi   was attacked allegedly by drug mafia men.
 
 “No one from the village will be allowed to help the addict after he is handed over to the police and those who won’t comply will face social boycott,” says a villager while addressing the meeting. He also mentioned name of a resident from  , who allegedly supplies drugs, and requested people to stop him from entering the village.
 
 The villagers said they would be frequently holding meetings to address the issue and make the campaign a successful one. Balwinder Singh, a village elderly, said the idea was not to defame the families of addicts. “Villagers are forced to name the addicts as they have not heeded to our repeated requests and are bringing a bad name to the village,” he said.
 
 Police have assured help to the villagers. Ludhiana (rural) SSP   said he has asked Jagraon DSP to get in touch with the villagers and they would liaison with the health department for treatment of addicts. He added that they would get a list of drug peddlers from the villagers and take action. “It’s a good sign that villagers are coming forward. We will stand by them,” he added.
 
