NEW DELHI: In a development that could ignite fresh tension between the state and Centre, Delhi lieutenant governor   has written to chief secretary M M Kutty , directing him to immediately issue notice to Aam Aadmi Party for recovery of money spent on advertisements by the Arvind Kerjiwal-led government in violation of Supreme Court guidelines.

 The amount, to be paid within 30 days of the notice, is learnt to be at least Rs 97 crore.
 
 The committee on content regulation of government advertising had forwarded its report to the Delhi chief secretary, through a September 16 letter last year, for action on the issue. The committee had directed the Delhi government to assess the expenditure incurred by it on certain categories of advertisements and get it reimbursed from the political party concerned.
 
 Kejriwal's media advisor, Arunoday Prakash, said, “Neither the CM nor the deputy CM have been informed about the development. We would not like to say anything till we get an intimation on this.“ Senior   functionaries too refused to comment on the matter. Sources said monthly re minders since September from the committee to the  's office for an action taken report were forwarded to the Delhi government. On March 17, the LG's office is learnt to have received another letter from the committee, saying it was still awaiting a reply . Finally, Baijal is learnt to have called for the file through the chief secretary to know the status and cause of the delay.
 
 The LG's directions, through Wednesday's letter to the chief secretary , were based on the assessment of the departments concerned. In keeping with the “advice by law department and as proposed by secretary , directorate of information and publicity“, the LG directed that “a notice should be immediately issued to the political party concerned for recovery of the amount already paid. The party concerned may be advised to pay directly to the agencies concerned in respect of remaining advertisements whose payment has not been released so far by the government.“
 
 It is learnt that various Delhi government departments have so far paid Rs 42 crore to agencies for the advertise ments under scrutiny . Another Rs 55 crore remains to be paid.
 
 The LG specified that “the notice should give full details of all advertisements and fix a timeline of 30 days from the date of issue to reimburse the amount to the government exchequer.“ The CS has also been asked to fix responsibility of officials involved and submit an interim report.
 
 The Centre's committee on content regulation of government advertising had indicted the Delhi government for vio lating guidelines enlisted by Supreme Court in its order dated May 13, 2015. It was ruling on acomplaint by Congress leader Ajay Maken.
 
 It directed the state government to fix responsibility , take action against those responsible and recover the entire expenditure from the Aam Aadmi Party , arguing that it was the main beneficiary of these ads.The committee was chaired by former chief election commissioner B B Tandon and had the president of the News Broadcasters Association, Rajat Sharma, and ad man Piyush Pandey as members.
 
 It concluded that the state government had violated the guidelines in six out of nine areas mentioned by Maken. It concluded that the guideline for “preventing arbitrary use of public funds for advertising by public authorities to project particular personalities, parties or governments without any attendant public interest“ had been violated. It also upheld the charge of false and misleading ads.
 
 The use of `AAP' in ads was seen as violation of the order that `advertisement materials must not mention the party in government by name“. The ads on issues outside the jurisdiction of the state government, like on the Dadri lynching, were seen to be out of sync with the SC guideline that “the advertisement campaigns (must) be related to government responsibilities“.
 
 The Supreme Court had stated in its judgment on compliance and enforcement that the three-member committee would receive complaints of violations of its guidelines and recommend action. It had also stated that the heads of government departments and agencies shall be responsible for ensuring compliance and shall follow a procedure of certification of compliance before advertisements are released to the media.
 
 
