NAGPUR: Prime Minister   on Friday launched Bhim-Aadhaar Pay App, a biometric-based payment system that will make paying with thumb impression a reality. Addressing the concluding Digi-Dhan event organized by   at the   here on Friday, he said even the most advanced nations do not have such an inclusive system for promoting digital economy and asserted that soon it would become a case study for other countries. 

 “The thumb that once was a symbol of illiteracy will now be a powerful tool thanks to the technology marvel,” said Modi.
 
 The PM, who was in the city for little over little over four hours, inaugurated a slew of development programmes, including the Bhim-Aadhar App for all financial transaction which will take the country towards a cashless society.
 
 Anyone without access to smartphones, Internet, debit or credit cards will be able to transact digitally through the Bhim-Aadhaar platform. “This will make digital payments easy even for those who cannot read or write, thus realizing Ambedkar's vision of social and financial empowerment for all,” said Modi.
 
 Timed with the 126th birth anniversary of Dalit icon Dr Babasaheb Abkedkar, Modi said the App would be part of his dream for a clean economy. The Digi Dhan movement was a “safai abhiyan” and it would fight the menace of corruption and black money and also “help realize Ambedkar’s dream of equality for all”, he stressed.
 
 In December 2016, Modi had launched the Bhim App to facilitate electronic payments by consumers. In March, the government launched Aadhaar Pay, a new Android-based App.
 
 Modi also handed over prize money to six winners of the Digi Dhan bumper lucky draw scheme in which the top prize of Rs1 crore went to Latur girl Shraddha Mengshette, an engineering student and daughter of a grocer who made a digital payment of Rs1500 EMI. Nearly 16 lakh prize winners have won a total prize money of Rs258 distributed at 100 events held all over the country. 
 
 Addressing a well-attended public meeting, Modi said a mobile phone would soon replace premises-less, paperless banking system. “We have been working towards a digital India for quite some time. Digi Dhan is one of the initiatives which will become ‘niji dhan’ (personal wealth) of the poor. It will become the voice of the poor,” he said.
 
 Modi also formally launched 75 Less Cash Digital Townships programme and also kicked off a referral reward scheme in which those referring Bhim-App to others would earn Rs10 for each referral while business establishments would get a cashback of Rs25 for every cashless deal on the platform.
 
 “If you refer 20 persons a day, you can earn Rs200,” he said.
 
 The scheme, starting on   will be on till October 14, the day when Ambedkar took Diksha to embrace Buddhism. 
 
 The prime minister also formally laid foundation stones for the proposed buildings for  , IIIT and IIM-N which he said “would soon transform city into a major education hub”.
 
 Before reaching the stadium for public function, he was at Koradi where he dedicated to the nation three supercritical units of 660MW each of thermal power plant. Modi left the city around 2.50pm.
 
 IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad also announced a Rs100 crore incubation centre under the skilled development programme in Nagpur. He did not reveal any details.
 
 
