PUNE: About 45,000 affordable flats would be available in the city in the next couple of years.

 In the first largest private investment initiative in reasonable accommodations, the Confederation of   Developers’ Associations of India (Credai) will build over one lakh affordable houses in Maharashtra cities, including Pune, Mumbai, Nashik, Nagpur, Satara and Solapur.
 
 “The Credai has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Government of India to build affordable houses and the MoU was handed over to M   on Sunday. About 45,000 affordable flats measuring 60sqm will be ready in Pune in the next couple of years. Construction could be started immediately,”  , the president-elect of Credai India, told TOI.
 
 Magar said Credai had collected data across India where developers were building affordable houses. “Based on these projects, we shall take up affordable housing with the Government of India,” he said.
 
 Over two lakh houses would be built under this project across India and Maharashtra will get the maximum benefit. These approved projects would be executed with assistance from central and state governments and beneficiary contribution. The cost of construction of these affordable houses will be in the range of Rs15 lakh to Rs30 lakh with average cost of construction coming to Rs18 lakh per house. As many as 352 housing projects would be executed in 53 cities of 17 states with an investment of over Rs 38,000 crore to build over two lakh houses.
 
 A study on housing conducted by non-governmental organisation (NGO) Mashal for the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) highlighted the lack of affordable houses in the city. It stated there was a shortfall of 2.5 to 3 lakh affordable housing units, which was likely to double in the next few years.
 
 To boost slowdown-hit real estate sector, the government had earlier announced infrastructure status to affordable housing to encourage investment in this segment and offered tax sops for developers sitting on completed unsold inventories. To promote affordable homes, the government also proposed to amend the Section 80-IBA, relaxing the condition of period of completion of the project for claiming deduction from the current three years to five years.
 
 The government had announced a scheme for profit-linked income tax exemption for promoters of affordable housing scheme in the last year’s budget. To make it more attractive, the government has proposed that instead of built-up area of 30 and 60sqm, the carpet area of 30 and 60sqm would be counted.
 
