New Delhi:   Captain   on Saturday held Shiromani Akali Dal patriarch Parkash Singh Badal responsible for the controversial   police firing on October 12, 2015, on people protesting against desecration of Guru Granth Sahib.

 The incident in which two people were killed had led to widespread protests across the state against the SAD government ahead of the assembly elections.
 
 The CM said he was sure that the inquiry commission probing the matter would expose the involvement of the former chief minister. The CM’s remarks are set to trigger sharp reactions from the SAD.
 
 “How can an SP order firing, he was clearly instructed to do so,” Amarinder said, adding that he had all along been maintaining that Badal was behind the unwarranted police firing, which led to the death of two Sikhs.
 
 Amarinder was addressing a select gathering at a felicitation function organized by Shiromani Akali Dal (Delhi) and attended by a host of luminaries.
 
 The SAD government had arrested two brothers — Rupinder and Jaswinder — holding them responsible for the sacrilege incident but had later taken a U-turn and released them. The SAD government had not named any police officer in the FIR for killing the two protesters.
 
 “The Akalis had always played politics with religion, using it to further their own political ends,” said Amarinder.
 
 Pointing to the spate of sacrilege incidents during Badal’s rule, the chief minister said the Akali tenure had witnessed 183 such incidents, of which 121 remained unsolved, in contrast to the 13 incidents reported since the   government took over, of which 12 had been solved.
 
 The chief minister said the false cases registered under Badal rule were also a matter of concern and the commission set up by his government to probe into those would identify the culprits and bring them to book. More than 1 lakh fake cases had been registered against innocent people by the Akali government, he claimed, adding that as many as 28 cases had been registered against a boy in Ajnala.
 
 Amarinder said there was resentment among people of Punjab against the misdeeds of Akalis, which was the reason for the party’s abominable performance in the assembly elections.
 
 Amarinder’s wife and former Union minister  , former Delhi chief minister Sheila Dikshit, Punjab Vidhan Sabha deputy speaker Ajaib Singh Bhatti and former SGPC secretary and Akali leader Manjit Singh Calcutta also attended the function.
 
 
 
 : Cops file FIR in a holy book theft case at Burj Jawahar village in Faridkot
 
 
  Torn pages of the holy book found at Bargai
 
 
 
 : Clashes in Moga during protest against police inaction
 
 
 
  Tension escalates, police open fire at protesters, kill 2
 
 
 
 : Badal shunts out DGP Sumedh Singh Saini, brings in Suresh Arora
 
 
  
 Protests simmer, Punjab hands over probe to CBI
 
 
  New government of Captain Amarinder Singh forms a commission to probe the sacrilege case and police firing
 
