CHANDIGARH: The Congress government in Punjab wants to rid the state farmers of their mounting debt but simplest of calculations show that even UP-like limited relief to small and marginal farmers would be an uphill task here. An across-the-board loan waiver could prove to be too big a bite to swallow for the state without financial help from the Centre.

 According to details tabled in the last meeting of State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC), held on November 18, 2016, banks in Punjab have non-performing assets (NPAs) of Rs 3,879 crore on their balance sheet. More importantly, the total outstanding loans of agriculture sector alone come to Rs 81,130 crore.
 
 At such time, experts claim, even following the UP model of farm loan waiver would cost at least Rs 20,000 crore. This is a huge amount for the state which is already reeling under a debt of Rs 1.32 lakh crore.
 
 Professor   — who holds   (RBI) chair at Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development (CRRID) at Chandigarh — told TOI, “Even if Punjab government is to follow the UP model of giving relief to only small and marginal farmers, it will have no record of the loans from non-institutional sources like moneylenders and ‘arhatiyas’ (commission agents). They too have around Rs 5,000 to 7,000 crore due to them.”
 
 UP was a different ball game, adds Prof Verma, as there were 2.25 crore farmers, out of which around 86 lakh had small debts of Rs 1 lakh. In Punjab, the beneficiaries of waiver for small and marginal farmers would only be around five lakh, who have less than two acres of land.
 
 “In UP, 86 lakh farmers benefited from the waiver. In total, there are nearly 14 lakh farmers – big and small in Punjab. Therefore in Punjab financial sector is more developed and farmers have also raise higher loans,” he says.
 
 In a letter to Prime Minister   on March 22, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh sought a special package for one-time loan waiver in the state. He said the total farm debt in Punjab amounted to more than Rs 80,000 crore, including the crop loans in the cooperative sector amounting to about Rs 12,500 crore. The average debt per farm household in Punjab works out to be Rs 8 lakh (including crop loan), while the state’s per hectare debt of small and marginal farmers was the highest in India.
 
 Sources said while the state government was still in the process of working out a blueprint, the figure of Rs 31,000 crore being quoted by some officials might not be sufficient for an across-the-board waiver of the farm debt.
 
 Former Punjab finance minister and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader   told TOI, “The total debt would be over Rs 60,000 crore and it would be impossible for Punjab to waive this without help from the Centre. The revenue intelligence department of the government keeps track of these figures. We also need to remember that Punjab’s economy is not of the size of UP and there is a ceiling on the amount of loan that the state can raise. For UP for instance, Rs 30,000 crore is not a big amount.”
 
 “Indebtedness in Punjab is due to both institutional and non-institutional loans but the state will not be able to access the account books of the commission agents. Besides, the state will also need to define which part of the outstanding loans it wants to consider as debt. For instance, a two year payment default period could be fixed and the banks would then have to be compensated,” he said.
 
 Rural indebtedness in Punjab is estimated at Rs 80,000 crore, of which Rs 70,000 crore is the loan taken by farmers from banks.
 
 View counterview
 
 Chief minister Amarinder Singh said on Saturday that he was committed to farm loan waiver and his government would soon find ways and means to bail out the debt-ridden farmers. “We will do it with or without Centre’s aid,” he had said.
 
 Punjab’s former finance minister Parminder Singh Dhindsa says, “I fail to understand how they have promised it. I think they are looking at the Centre. They are misleading Punjab on the debt waiver issue. Limited waiver for the ‘most-needy; section should be the focus but even that will require a lot of effort.”
 
 Figuring out figures
 
 Punjab’s fiscal deficit: Rs 1.32 lakh crore.
 
 The total outstanding loans of agriculture sector: Rs 81,130 crore
 
 Government yet to define debt out of these loans.
 
 — Crop loans in the cooperative sector: Rs 12,500 crore
 
 — Debt of small and marginal farmers: 20,000 crore
 
 — Banks’ NPA in Punjab: Rs 3,879 crore
 
 — Outstanding loans from moneylenders: Rs 7,000 crore
 
