COIMBATORE: With Pongal just around the corner,   in the district are apprehensive about their ability to cash-in on the ensuing  . They say that the police stopped giving them the permission to perform almost seven years ago, as a result of which artists and their families find themselves without jobs. Their suffering aside, they feel that this is slowly turning into a death blow for this  .

 The Tamizh Panpattu Medai Nadana Kalaignargal Munnetra Sangam has appealed to the district administration to start allowing them to perform more often this year. "We are 1,310 artists who depend completely on dance for a livelihood," said Ravi Balan, president of the association. "Stage and street art is an entirely seasonal trade. A majority of the temple festivals happen between January and May," he said. 
 
 "We run our families and educate our children for the whole year based on our earnings during these five months," he added.
 
 Balan said that the police has not given them permission to perform for the past seven to 10 years. "It was almost a decade ago, that a few groups in villages got some dancers from Bangalore to wear skimpy clothes and dance to recorded music. They completely banned stage and street dances after that," said Balan. "They have stopped giving permissions completely, forcing us to get a court order from the district magistrate," he said. Going to court is also expensive, he said.
 
 "All our artists are fully clothed and we don't hurt any religion or castes. We also don't have vulgar dance moves or inflammatory content," said Balan.
 
 "Around four years back, each of the 40 dance troupes in our association used to get 30 to 40 shows each during the season. Last year, the situation was so bad that troupes were struggling to get just one show for the season," said S Veeramani, a dancer. "We charge anywhere between Rs20,000 to Rs1lakh per show," he said. 
 
 Dancers say they find it difficult to find another job or avenue at this stage. " Most of us artists started training in this   form almost 30 years ago. We used to earn between Rs1000 and Rs1500 per show which would extend up to three hours," said Balan. 
 
 With all these difficulties, most of the artistes are encouraging their children to take up a different profession. "Many of our children have taken up painting, driving auto rickshaws and operating parking lots," said Veeramani.
 
 Artists say the police could be strict with groups that do vulgar performances instead of banning all dance performances. "Why do they have to ban all dancers," asked Balan.
 
