MANGALURU: The residents of coastal city seem to have realized the medicinal values of  , which is a rare forest produce harvested once in 60 years. 

 Bamboo rice is a rare commodity in the market and moreover there were a very few customers for it. A recent boost in organic farming and awareness on nature care has led to an increase in demand for bamboo rice. To meet the growing demand in the coastal region, the dealers have started procuring bamboo rice through tribals and forest dwellers in Madhya Pradesh. Bamboo rice is sold at Rs 600 per kg at selected shops in Mangaluru. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, K P Bhat, proprietor of Kudilinga Grameena Naturals, said that bamboo rice is the best gift of nature enriched with many medicinal properties. “I am procuring bamboo rice through tribals in Madhya Pradesh and supplying here. Initially, a very few people preferred bamboo rice, but now I have a customer-base of over 400 families in Mangaluru who purchase it regularly,” said Bhat, who promotes the medicinal values of bamboo rice through exhibitions and festivals related to agriculture and organic farming in and around Mangaluru.
 
 Hailing from Yethadka in Kasaragod district of Kerala, Bhat started promoting bamboo rice through exhibitions four years ago. He says that consumption of bamboo rice in prescribed quantity can keep doctors away. 
 
 “It is said to be a very good medicine for neck pain, back pain and effective in the treatment of   and other ailments. Hundred grams of bamboo rice contains 60 grams of carbohydrates, 265 kilo calorie of energy and zero fat. One need not take a large quantity of bamboo rice every day. Consumption of three grams of bamboo rice per day in empty stomach with water or same quantity along with regular rice is sufficient as it has high medicinal values. People in Mangaluru are realizing the importance of bamboo rice. I get more enquiries on my phone (9446961202) and through my exhibition stalls,” said Bhat, who recently showcased the bamboo rice at an organic farming fair organized by the horticulture department in Mangaluru. 
 
 
