HYDERABAD: Soon,  , the  , might be stripped off its   (ESZ), to make way for the Telangana government’s multi-crore   ( ).

 A proposal to this effect has been tabled before the union ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEF&CC) by the state government, which has urged the Centre to “limit the ESZ around KBR buffer zone as zero metres”.
 
 This letter, dated March 9, 2017, (a copy of which is in TOI’s possession), has been sent from the office of the Telangana special chief secretary (environment, forest, science & technology) and addressed to the additional secretary of MoEF&CC.
 
 In may be recalled that in mid-2016, the state government had written a similar note to the union ministry suggesting that the ESZ of the park, which, as per the SRDP design, has six “skyways” planned around it, be fixed at 3-7 metres (from the previously proposed 25 to 35 metres) to accommodate the project. But even before that proposal could be processed, the Telangana government has sought a further reduction in the ESZ.
 
 Result: if green signalled, this will give the authorities here a free hand to carry out any construction or developmental activity – including felling of trees -- within this zone that was, incidentally, made mandatory by the union ministry to protect the sanctity of national parks and wildlife sanctuaries in India.
 
 “The protective wall around KBR NP provides total protection to flora and fauna inside the national park from biotic pressures. Hence, there is a strong case for notifying zero metres ESZ around KBR NP in Hyderabad just as was done for Guindy National Park in Chennai,” reads the letter, a copy of which has also been marked to Telangana’s principal chief conservator of forests & chief wildlife warden and department of municipal administration & urban development. 
 
 Justifying the move, the letter further states that the revision in the ESZ has been proposed keeping in mind the interest of the public and accommodate the SRDP “to ease traffic congestion around the national park” that is located in the heart of the city.
 
 While MoEF officials in New Delhi, when contacted by TOI, confirmed the receipt of the fresh proposal, they said the matter was still under consideration. “The ministry has received /receiving comments from various stakeholder which are being sent to the State Government for their consideration; based on the view of the State Government, the matter would be further considered by the Experts of the ESZ Expert Committee,” the MoEF responded via e-mail, adding that so far “no decision has been taken on the ESZ of KBR Park”.
 
