GURUGRAM: A beauty parlour worker in his mid-20s was sentenced to five years in jail and fined Rs 50,000 by the district court in Gurgaon on Thursday for molesting a 17-year-old girl during a  .

  Singh, a resident of UP, was convicted under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act by additional sessions judge  , who said the “judgment will send a strong message to society to come forward and report such incidents and such orders will discourage people from hurting the dignity of girls and women”.
 
 Singh was arrested in May 2016 after the girl reported her traumatic experience at the parlour in Gurgaon’s Sector 22 to her mother. She said the masseur had let his hands stray to the upper parts of her right leg during the pedicure, and the pedicure itself had lasted much longer than usual. 
 
 In her statement before the court, the girl’s mother said, “The pedicure work was to be done up to the knee level. However, when my daughter returned home, she told me Ravi had tried to do the pedicure by taking the massage to her upper leg, which was not the correct way. My daughter started crying when she informed me about this.” Further, she said, the pedicure on just one leg had taken 40-50 minutes. “This was a very long time because it’s routine and so much time is not required,” the mother told the court.
 
 She also said Ravi subsequently followed the girl to the billing counter, smiled at her and asked her if she had liked his “performance”.
 
 Ravi was booked and arrested on   charges in May 2016 following a complaint filed by the girl’s mother. Public prosecutor   said this was a unique case because a minor girl had been molested in a parlour.
 
 According to the police report, the girl was wearing basketball shorts when she went to the parlour, and Ravi rolled up the shorts during the pedicure. Initially, the girl did not realise what his intentions were but grew steadily uncomfortable and eventually asked him to hurry up and complete the procedure. Her mother first confronted the parlour owner and then filed a complaint against Ravi. The court relied on the police investigation and statements made in court to pass the verdict.
 
