AGRA: A committee constituted by the   in December last year to assess the impact of industrial pollution on the   has submitted its report. In the report, the committee headed by  , has virtually given a clean chit to industries and blamed transport pollution, burning of garbage and construction activities as major contributors harming the 17th century monument.

 The recommended further source appointment studies and compilation of detailed emission related data within 15-km radius of the white marble monument.
 
 “Keeping in view that Taj Mahal is the critical receptor of industrial pollution, a policy decision may be taken for permissible categories of industries as per guidelines of   (as being followed in other eco-sensitive zones). Keeping in view the balance between industrial growth and environmental protection, industries in the Green/White categorization seem to be further revisited that are relevant to the  ,” the report further stated.
 
 The committee also recommended that there is a need to have a revised standards for gas based glass industries as well as fresh environmental guidelines for small scale glass manufacturing industries.
 
 It said that Industries that want to convert to natural gas may be given by the TTZ authority with requisite environmental safeguards without referring them to the MoEF as is the case in present scenario. The TTZA can also give appropriate policy/direction to such industries with regard to operation of such industrial units that obtain gas connection from Gas Authority of India Ltd and no objection certificate from the state pollution control board.
 
 Referring to a direction passed by the Supreme Court on December 30, 1996, the committee said while the apex court directed the industries to replace coal with natural gas as fuel it never imposed any restriction on their expansion. “Therefore, an appropriate policy / direction may be issued on the issue of the ad hoc moratorium imposed on new as well as expansion of industries in TTZ area,” the committee said in its report. 
 
 The emission from Mathura Refinery and glass industries in Firozabad seem to have less contribution on air quality at Taj Mahal due to their distance. However, they should continue their efforts in keeping their emission within the prescribed limits, the committee observed.
 
 It also recommended that a continuous air quality monitor needs to be installed near Taj Mahal. The monitoring station of the Archaeological Survey of India may be converted to continuous air quality monitoring station, it said. 
 
 The direction to form the committee passed on December 8, 2016 had come in the wake of several representations sent to the ministry by various industrial organizations of Agra asking the former to re-consider its decision to allow only non-polluting 'white category' new industrial units in Agra.
 
 The ministry had constituted a five-member high-level committee comprising its advisor Manoranjan Hota, National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) director and Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) director general among others to conduct a fresh study. 
 
 KC Jain, secretary of Agra Development Foundation, said, “The early the new recommendations are implemented by authorities, the better it will be growth of Agra.”
 
