JAIPUR: The buildings which are sealed by the   (JMC) will be allowed to re-open only after their owners pay fines for illegal constructions to the civic body. 

 A circular was issued mentioning the owners have to pay penalty between Rs 1 lakh and Rs 5 lakh, according to the plot size, along with the red-file to get the seal opened. For commercial establishments, the JMC has proposed to impose penalty of one and half times more than the prescribed penalty. At present, more than 200 buildings are sealed in JMC periphery in different zones.
 
 An official said, “Many owners have deposited Rs 50,000 along with red-file to open their sealed buildings. The notices have been issued to deposit the difference amount. The owners will also have to submit one affidavit,”
 
 Earlier, the JMC was imposing maximum Rs 50,000 penalty for re-opening the seal of illegal buildings. A committee was constituted for deciding the amount as per the size of illegal construction.
 
 The JMC will impose penalty of Rs 1 lakh on illegal construction made on 100 sq meter plot. Illegal construction on plot size 200 sqm to 300 sqm will be opened after imposing Rs 2.5 lakh. Similarly, owners will have to deposit Rs 3 lakh who have constructed illegal house on 300-400 sqm plot. The maximum penalty of Rs 5 lakh will be imposed on owners having plots size more than 400 sqm.
 
 The   (UDH) department in August constituted a four-member committee to frame rules and regulations for sealing and opening illegal buildings in all municipal corporations, urban improvement trust (UIT) and development authorities.
 
 The committee was directed to submit its report within 15 days to additional chief secretary, UDH after examining present rules will recommend new guidelines. The committee will be headed by joint secretary, UDH,  . Other members include Rahul Jain, superintendent of police (JDA), Ashok Singh, senior joint law advisor (UDH) and  , deputy commissioner (JDA). Sources said, the committee has not prepared its report yet.
 
 “In absence of rules many buildings were sealed in the city. In the circular, the zone commissioners have been asked to prepare the list of illegal buildings which have been sealed for more than six months. The pending cases along with the papers will be sent to the law department,” informed official.
 
 
