VARANASI: A high-level official report on the recent violence and arson in   ( ) has reportedly noted that proper and timely communication with protesting girl students by the varsity administration could have nipped the problem in the bud and prevented it from escalating.

 On Tuesday, the BHU vice-chancellor, too, ordered a probe into the incidents headed by a retired HC judge.
 
 UP chief secretary Rajiv Kumar had sought a report from divisional commissioner of Varanasi Nitin Ramesh Gokarn and ADG Varanasi zone Vishwajit Mohapatra. Gokarn told TOI that the joint report compiled after recording statements of students, wardens of girl hostels, university officials and police was submitted to Kumar on Monday night. 
 
 Though Gokarn refused to disclose the details of the report, he admitted that had the university officials held a proper communication with the girls when their agitation started, the violent incidents that occurred later could have been averted.
 
 Before submitting the report to the chief secretary, the commissioner had convened a meeting of district administration and police officials on Monday evening. The police transferred investigation of all five cases registered with Lanka police to the crime branch.
 
 In another development, before leaving for Delhi on Tuesday morning, Justice (retd) VK Dixit will head the committee. He left for Delhi on Tuesday amid reports that he had been summoned by the ministry of HRD. BHU spokesman Rajesh Singh claimed that the VC had gone to Delhi to attend the pre-scheduled quarterly meeting of the executive committee.
 
 The atmosphere on the campus on Tuesday was largely peaceful and deployment of police and PAC had been reduced as most students had left for their homes since the festival holidays had been advanced. The university will now open only on October 3.
 
 Dozens of inmates of different hostels gathered near Birla Hostel on the campus in the afternoon and got their heads tonsured demanding action against the vice-chancellor.
 
 
