NEW DELHI: Three incidents in as many days where four policemen on duty were targeted by rash drivers have brought into renewed focus the dangerous conditions under which the men in khaki work. 

 The incidents took place in northwest and south Delhi, the most recent being in   where a head constable suffered multiple injuries in the leg when a speeding Verna rammed a barricade. A case was registered at Vasant Kunj police station.
 
 Police said that the accused driver fled from the spot after hitting the constable. The car was found abandoned a little distance away. The policeman has been admitted at Safdarjung Hospital with multiple fractures. The identity of the accused is yet to be ascertained.
 
 A senior police officer said the incident took place on the intervening night of March 4 and 5. The head constable, Premchand, was posted at a picket near NH-8 in north Vasant Kunj police station area.
 
 “Around midnight, he (Premchand) spotted a car coming towards him at a very high speed and signalled it to stop,” said Chinmoy Biswal, DCP-II (south). However, instead of slowing down, the driver accelerated even further and the car swerved out of control. “The car rammed the barricade and the policeman on duty was  . The driver fled from the spot and the car was later found abandoned nearby,” Biswal said. Police are scanning CCTV footage from the area to trace the accused.
 
 A similar incident took place at Keshavpuram on Thursday: a policeman, Ramesh Yadav, was hit by a Maruti Zen car and dragged for over 500 meters while on picket duty. The driver was stopped by passers-by and handed over to the police.
 
 In the third incident, two sub-inspectors, Naveen and Sanjeev, who were on patrolling duty at  , were hit by a car on Friday. The impact was so huge that both policemen were flung to the other side of the road. The driver, instead of stopping, sped away.
 
 Police said while Naveen was out of danger, Sanjeev was still battling for life. A case has been registered.
 
 
