VISAKHAPATNAM: Bus and   in the three north coastal districts of Srikakulam, Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram witnessed an unprecedented rush on Thursday with people arriving from various places to their native land to celebrate Sankranti.

 The official spokesperson from Waltair division of East Coast Railway (ECoR) said on Thursday all 117 railway stations in the division limits witnessed nearly 70,000 footfall of passengers from various places including 40,000 in Visakhapatnam railway station alone.
 
 “Generally, Vizag railway station sees a rush of 20,000 to 25,000 passengers daily. But on Thursday, it was 40,000. It was quite similar to the numbers last year. Our division earns nearly Rs 2 crore business from passenger traffic during this period against Rs 1.2 crore to 1.5 crore per day on other days,” the official spokesperson said.
 
 The busy railway stations in the region included the city railway station, Vizianagaram Junction, Srikakulam Road, Palasa, Parvatipuram and Bobbili.
 
 The railway spokesperson further said they operated 18 pairs of special service trains to various destinations like Chennai, Tirupathi, Hyderabad, Bangalore and Kolkata. Seven pairs originated from Vizag alone, he said.
 
 Ch Appala Narayana, deputy chief traffic manager of   for Dwaraka Bus Station, said Vizag city bus station (Dwaraka Bus Station) had on Thursday witnessed a rush of nearly 1.7 lakh passengers from 2,750 bus services against 1 lakh passengers through 2,000 services on normal days.
 
 “We specially operated 300 services towards the north coastal districts from Vizag city and nearly 20 buses towards south coastal districts for Sankranti. We also operated non-stop bus services from Vijayawada to Vizag as a special measure, which got a good response,” Appala Narayana said. 
 
 A Ramakrishna, executive director of APSRTC for Vizianagaram Zone covering four coastal districts from Srikakulam to East Godavari, said, “We are collecting 50% additional charges above the original fare for long-distance services like Chennai to Vizag, Hyderabad to Vizag and Bangalore to Vizag only on special services, but not on regular buses. We also opened the advanced booking reservation system for both regular and special services. Passengers can check the difference in the fares at the web portals. If a passenger comes across any kind of mistake, they can bring it to the notice of the   management,” Ramakrishna told TOI.
 
 
