Mumbai: Coming down on the   for filing a closure report in a fraud case involving Allahabad bank officials, a special court ordered the agency to investigate the matter by not using "traditional methods". 

 "Cases under bank securities & fraud are connected with economic offence and white collar persons. Therefore, it is always necessary on the part of the investigating officer not to investigate like cases in the traditional way, but to keep in mind consequences and to decide as to whether the act was done under conspiracy," the judge said.
 
 The court further held that so far as conspiracy is concerned, direct proof of the same cannot be expected. "Presently, economic offences are a severe concern for the state as huge public money is involved. As such, by observing so, I have no hitch to observe that the report submitted by the investigating officer for closure of the matter and issuance of summary is not acceptable and justified," the judge said.
 
 On February 26, 2013, the assistant general manager of   (east) lodged a report alleging a cheating conspiracy among  , its directors, officers, bank officials concerned and valuers. He also alleged that the accused had made wrongful gains and had caused wrongful loss to the bank.
 
 The FIR alleged that as part of the criminal conspiracy between the directors of the company and the public servants of the bank, the company was sanctioned a short-term corporate loan of Rs 50 crore on March 28, 2009. The money was disbursed and in the form of collateral the company offered exclusive first charge of a property at Vadodara. It said the property was valued at Rs 67.34 crore.
 
 The FIR stated that when the bank decided to auction the property, it took a fresh valuation on December 26, 2011, which was found to be Rs 11.76 crore. It alleged that the company had defrauded the bank by submitting a manipulated and exaggerated valuation report of the secured assets. The FIR said that in contravention to the bank's guidelines, the then chief manager of the bank's Andheri(east) branch, along with the then chief manager (credit) zonal office, Mumbai, were found accountable for lapses in not undertaking a visit-cum-valuation of the proposed mortgaged property and not obtaining a second valuation report.
 
 The company was also alleged to have misappropriated a large sum of money on the basis of forged and fabricated documents. It was further accused of siphoning funds through its current account in the bank.
 
 The CBI in its application, requesting the court to accept the closure report, said detailed investigations were carried out. It submitted that though several irregularities were noticed, adequate evidence to file a chargesheet was absent. The CBI said that departmental action had been recommended against officials for the negligence in handling the proposal.
 
