KOCHI: The blood given to a nine year-old girl during transfusion at   (RCC) in Thiruvananthapuram was tested before the procedure and HIV was not detected, a report by the Kerala State AIDS Control Society (KSACS) has said. The report by   director Dr R Ramesh, however, also points out that RCC is not equipped to detect the virus during the window period ­ time from infection to a positive result.

 The Kerala State AIDS Control Society (KSACS), which has given a clean chit to the Regional Cancer Centre (RCC) authorities after a nine-year-old girl contracted HIV during the blood transfusion done at the Centre, has pointed out in its report that RCC is not equipped to detect the virus during the window period. The report prepared by KSACS director Dr R Ramesh said that the blood given to the nine-year-old kid was tested before the transfusion and it had not tested positive for HIV. “Always there is a two to three weeks window period to find whether it is HIV positive. Hence, in this case also, it has been found that the blood stored in the blood bank and all the samples collected there were properly tested. Hence the RCC authorities cannot be blamed,” said Dr Ramesh. 
 
 However, he pointed out that the hospitals and blood banks in the state are not well equipped to detect the virus in the window period for which we will have to seek assistance from the   (NACO). KSACS will soon be writing to   seeking more help in introducing the most advanced testing facilities here. In all government medical college hospitals and RCC we need such testing facilities, he added. In the fact finding mission of the KSACS, it has been found that about 49 times blood components were given to the kid and during each time the   was tested. 
 
 Hence the RCC authorities had taken all steps to ensure that the blood was safe. “We cannot blame the RCC for the facility they do not have,” said Ramesh. Meanwhile, the committee appointed by the state government, which is headed by joint director of medical education Dr Sreekumari, will submit its report to the government on Tuesday. The committee has completed collecting the details from the RCC and also the records of the blood samples stored in the blood bank. An internal committee was also formed by RCC director Dr Paul Sebastian. “The report is ready and we will be handing it over to the government on Tuesday,” said Dr Sebastian. However, he was not ready to divulge about the details of the report.
 
