NAGPUR: Confidence was evident on the faces of Eagle Sporting Club’s men when they took the field to face relatively old side of Accountant General Recreational Club ( ) at the   (VHA) ground. However, despite being labelled as favourites, Eagle men failed to convert easy chances and struggled to get the better AGRC’s defence as they eked out a 1-1 draw on Friday.

 After such a disappointing show and losing an early chance to book a place in the semis, the Eagle men will be under pressure when they face City Police in their must-win last league game of the   on Saturday.
 
 AGRC, who were playing with most of their men in their 30s, opted to go with defensive tactics and made life difficult for Eagle men. They deployed four men in the defence and their midfielders also worked around the penalty area, which made it look like a defence line of seven men. Yet, their young rivals created 15 chances in a match, 9 of which came in the first half itself.
 
 In the fifth minute of the match, Eagle’s forward-line player Mohit Kathoute took a perfect shot at the goal but it was cleared by AGRC’s defender Avesh Ansari when goalkeeper Pervez Qureshi missed it. It was followed by several chances.
 
 At the lemon break, Eagle men looked frustrated as the deadlock was unbroken and all the easy attempts were missed by the forward and midfield players comprising Rohit Kathoute, Sushil Maskare, Rakesh Khatarkar, Lalit Darvai, Shahsank D and Mohit Kathoute.
 
 When Eagle’s desperation to score was rising with each minute, AGRC stunned the rivals through Kaushalendra Singh, who was standing just next to the rival’s goal post throughout the match, in the 42nd minute. Singh got an excellent pass from Avesh Ansari from 25 yards, which he deflected to put his side in the lead. Minutes before the goal, Rahil SK squandered the opportunity by hitting it wide.
 
 After the goal, AGRC kept just two men in the front and rest in the defence as they sensed a surprise win coming their way. But, Eagle men did not panic and pushed hard till they got the success. In the 56th minute, Maskare showed great composure and controlled a powerful hit from Mohit and pushed it into the goal to make it 1-1.
 
 The equalizer was followed by two more unsuccessful attempts from Eagle men in the remaining four minutes. Towards the fag end of the match, AGRC’s P Rammohan, who received a second yellow card which led to a red card, was expelled from the game.
 
