KANNUR: When he died unexpectedly two years ago, at the age of 77,   crusader and environmentalist   was in the process of fulfilling a dream - a school to   on mangroves and its conservation. With the initiative yet to find support from the government or environmental groups, what remains of that dream is a tiny building that Pokkudan built.

 His three   are now planning to raise funds for the project by collecting small amounts from the students on the occasion of the second death anniversary of Pokkudan, on Wednesday.
 
 “When my father had shared his dreams to people like you, he had said that even if the school students to whom he took classes, contributed one rupee each, he could materialize the mangrove school, and exactly that is what we are planning,” said his son Anandan. On the day of his death anniversary, the money collected from school students will be handed over at a memorial function to be held in Kannur. The fund will be received by T V Rajesh, MLA, he said.
 
 The mangrove school holds the view that in the backdrop of climate change, mangroves play a vital role in the ecological balance and prevention of soil erosion, and hence his teachings need to be shared with the new generation. Since the tiny room that Pokkudan built is not sufficient to meet the requirements, they are planning a new building adjacent to it. It will house a small museum on the mangrove crusader and a facility for research on mangroves and educating the students.
 
 The school would also organize field studies for the students, he said. “My father has left behind five tiny country boats that he used during mangrove exploration trips. We can make use of it to help students explore mangrove forests in the locality,” said Anandan.
 
 Raghunath, another son of Pokkudan has started a ‘mangrove nursery’, which has over 10,000 mangrove saplings besides the seeds of different varieties of mangroves. “My father lived for mangroves and it is our duty to take forward his heritage, because he has no parallels in the world, so to enliven his memories, we should grow mangroves wherever needed, with the help of voluntary groups, and also sensitize the people about it,” he said. 
 
