Panaji: The state government has asked the National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management (NCSCM), Chennai, to prepare a detailed project report (DPR) for coastal development that is required to be submitted to the Union ministry of environment, forest, and climate change (MoEFCC).

 TOI had reported that Goa could lose Rs 400 crore for coastal development under the integrated   management (ICZM) project as the government failed to submit a DPR to the environment ministry.
 
 The project, funded by the World Bank, is an initiative to conserve the fragile ecosystem along the coast, provide livelihood opportunities, and protect coastal communities and infrastructure from the hazards arising from the sea. The project also seeks to promote ICZM planning of the identified coastal stretches in Goa and other states. 
 
 The NCSCM has been asked to prepare the DPR within two months and include shoreline management, a pollution management plan, a conservation management plan, a coastal livelihood plan, a resource management plan, a tourist management plan, institutional arrangements, and building awareness and capacity. The DPR will be prepared in consultation with stakeholders.
 
 The DPR will comprise measures to prevent erosion and degradation of beaches and lands, right from Pernem to Canacona. It will also consist of measures to preserve turtle-nesting sites and management plans, and also to study the water quality of estuaries. 
 
 Also in the list is a khazan management plan, a sand dunes park, a mangroves park, and the identification of fish-breeding sites.
 
 The government has asked the NCSCM to conduct research on other areas too: blue flag sites, potential fishing zones along coastal waters, sand extraction zones, coral reefs at Grande Island, salt pans, mangrove cover, ingress of saline water and the subsequent impact on salinity on ground water.
 
 The government has also asked NCSCM to prepare a report on sewerage and waste management infrastructure available along the coastal belt, and on the upgradation of infrastructure at the Goa State Pollution Control Board’s coastal water monitoring lab. The NCSCM will identify infrastructure requirements related to sustainable fishing, public transport system, and public utilities. Given that the Goa economy runs on tourism, the NCSCM has also been asked to prepare a design of eco-friendly beach shacks, as well as identify measures to promote solar energy.
 
 
