SHIMLA: Unlike Punjab, voters in   do not have an option to bring any other political party to power, but the   or the BJP. It has been observed that the state doesn’t have a third political party that has the ability to form the government. Although in the past, a lot of parties tried to emerge to power but failed to lure the vote bank of the two giants.

 Since 1967, the hill state has mainly witnessed a two-party system -- although attempts were made by some to provide a third alternate to the electorates.
 
 Consider this: In 2012 assembly polls, national political parties like BSP, CPI and NCP fielded their candidates, but all of them had forfeited deposits.
 
 It was this time when some leaders from the BJP, led by Maheshwar Singh, formed the   and managed to secure one seat, but within five years Maheshwar Singh returned back to the BJP by merging his party.
 
 Assembly elections of 1998 have a similar story. A senior Congress leader and former union telecom minister   commenced Himachal Vikas Congress party and secured five seats. However in 2004, the party was merged into the Congress.
 
 It has been seen that before each polls, smaller parties try to emerge — giving people a third option — but after the elections they vanished, thereby leave the ground open for the two giants.
 
 In 2012, a total of six national parties -- BJP, BSP, CPI, CPM, Congress and NCP -- fielded their candidates. While the BJP and the Congress had contested on all the 68 assembly seats, the BSP contested on 66. Other parties: CPI, CPM and NCP contested on 6 seats, 16 seats and 13 seats, respectively.
 
 When the results were announced, Congress secured 43.21% votes, BJP 38.83%, CPM 4.98%, CPI 2.18%, NCP 1.97% and BSP only 1.22% votes.
 
 Candidates fielded by rest of the national parties, except two CPM candidates had forfeited their deposits. There were other regional and registered parties too but they failed to have any impact. 
 
 Last year, even, Aam Aadmi Party announced to contest the assembly elections, but now its chances to win seem too bleak as it neither has the manpower nor a strong leadership in the region. 
 
 With assembly election due in November, the Congress and the BJP have intensified its poll campaign, while the rest of the parties are nowhere to be seen.
 
