On Tuesday,   failed to enter Noida’s Agahpur village or his house despite repeated attempts as eager fans blocked the entry points to the village and swarmed the bylane outside his house. The planned welcome turned rather violent with Manveer and his family being pushed around by selfie-seekers, and Manveer sustaining several injuries.
 ‘Kaun sochta hai apne ghar mein ghusne ke liye bouncers lagenge?’
  
  A felicitation for Manveer was planned in Sector 46 in the afternoon, but he suffered injuries on his hands and leg due to a fall, and could not take to the stage or speak at the event. He was then whisked away to a nearby hospital for first-aid. Following this, the Sector 41 resident had a belated lunch at a local restaurant and was planning to return to his home in Agahpur. However, he had to postpone his ghar wapasi because of the huge crowd that had gathered outside his house and even on the main road near his village. “We tried to bring bhai home a few times, but on seeing the crowd and knowing that he had been injured earlier due to the crowd, we delayed it,” said Manveer’s brother Sachin Baisoya. As the fans refused to leave till they saw Manveer, his family and friends decided it was best that the reality show winner not return home for the night. “He spent the night at a farmhouse on the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway,” a source close to the family told us. When asked why Manveer hadn’t employed private security, his friend Neeraj replied, “Kaun sochta hai apne ghar mein ghusne ke liye bouncers ki zaroorat padegi?”
  
  Fans refuse to leave
  
  The fans were disappointed at not being able to catch a glimpse of their hero, but none of them left Agahpur till late night on Tuesday. Praveen, who had travelled from Punjab, said, “We came from so far to see him and all we wanted was to greet him once and shake his hand. Itna toh fans ke liye kar sakte thay woh.” However, villagers said it was the fans’ fault that Manveer had to resort to staying away. Alka, a resident of Agahpur, told us, “This is not love but paagalpan. On one hand, you call him your bhai and honour him, and on the other hand, you pull him down and hurt him. He has every right to make sure he is safe first.”
  
  Couldn’t even sleep in my own bed: Manveer
  
  Manveer said, “It was quite unfortunate. First I fell when supporters tried to lift me on their shoulders at the airport and hurt my shoulder. Then, in the scuffle at the grand welcome ceremony, I hurt my leg. I tried telling the fans that main toh aap mein se hi hoon. Itna pyaar diya toh ab aise toh na karo.” Manveer added that he had been sleep deprived when he arrived in Noida but could not even get to sleep in his own bed because of the commotion outside his village. Manveer’s family – including his father and cousins – were taken by car to the farmhouse where he stayed to meet him through the day.
  
  
 
  
  Weren’t informed of the felicitation event: Noida Police
  
  Noida Police had deployed over a dozen cops on the Dadri Road outside Agahpur to manage the crowd. Traffic Inspector Dharmendra Yadav said, “The department had issued a traffic advisory on Monday knowing well that there would be a commotion. On Tuesday too, we had a PCR van and about a dozen traffic policemen stationed near Agahpur.”
  
  However, no cop was present at the Sector 46 ground, where Manveer was injured during the felicitation ceremony in the afternoon. Senior officials from Noida Police said they had not been made aware of such an event by Manveer’s family, and no request for any police presence was made. Sources say that permission to hold the event in the ground was taken from Noida Authority only on Monday evening. Some 3,000 fans were present at the event, according to Manveer’s family.
  
  
 
  
  
  
