LUCKNOW: In a city where more than 18.65 lakh two-wheelers and four-wheelers are registered, keeping   in check has never been a priority. Only three motorists were challaned for driving under the influence of alcohol last year by traffic police under section 185 of Motor Vehicle Act.

 Though traffic cell of city police is equipped with 28  , sustained drives have rarely been initiated to book tipplers who hit city streets under the influence of alcohol. The accident in which five homeless persons were killed on Sunday proves city streets are turning unsafe.
 
 On a daily basis, a large crowd gathers outside model shops, bars, pubs and other spots of alcohol consumption. People head back on their motor vehicles without worrying about getting checked by police. “Over the years, crowd outside model shops has only grown and we have rarely seen police in action. Drinking inside parked vehicles is another trend that has picked up lately,” said B K Singh, a retired official, resident of Viram Khand, Gomtinagar.
 
 In Mumbai, Delhi and Chennai, police department managed to instil sense of fear among motorists against drunk driving. In Mumbai, up to 45 police teams are deployed on the main arterial roads with breathlyzers. Fine ranging between Rs 2,000 and Rs 5,000 is levied subject to the level of alcohol in bloodstream. More over, the person is produced before court next day and often jailed for a day.
 
 In the city, on the other hand, no drive is ever conducted against drunk driving, not even on New Year Eve or Christmas, when revelry is at its peak. DIG Praveen Kumar said, “I will instruct SHOs and SOs to identify trouble spots in the next few days and conduct surprise check and take action.”
 
 
 
 Breathlyzer - 28
 
 Speed guns available - 7 of which only two are operational 
 
 ACT BY LAW
 
 Under section 185 of Motor Vehicle Act, fine of Rs 2,000 or imprisonment up to six months or both can be awarded to a person caught driving under influence of alcohol. A motorist can be termed drunk if blood alcohol content (BAC) is at or above 0.03%. It mean for every 100 ml of blood, there would be 30 µl (micro-litre) of alcohol present in the body. 
 
 
