NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court’s decision to lift the ban on sale of firecrackers in Delhi NCR by once again allowing permanent licences for sale and retail of firecrackers has received a mix response across the capital.

 While firecracker traders have welcomed the move, saying it may help the business in the short term, they feel business has not been able to recover ever since last year. Meanwhile, experts believe a systematic approach is required to ensure that firecrackers are removed from the market with the previous ban coming up short in terms of implementation.
 
 Ashok Kumar Saini, owner of Star Night Fireworks in Gurgaon, said the situation for them is not likely to improve much with a number of traders avoiding the business as it is ‘risky’ at this point. “People who already have licenses are sticking through, but you won’t see many people come into this market to sell firecrackers. The number of temporary licences is also going down, which in turn will affect our retail and the business as a whole,” he said.
 
 Himanshu Jain of   in Shahdara said business has been affected ever since the ban came into effect but this may help them in the short term. “At least this Diwali, traders can benefit and do some decent business. Any form of respite is a welcome move for us as it was becoming very difficult to survive,” said Jain.
 
 Under the order, the number of temporary licences will go down by 50%, but many have already left the business. Vishal Kumar, who was running Shivam Fireworks till last year, had to shut down his business due to the ban. “We left this business last year. The industry was facing a tough time,” said Kumar.
 
 Air pollution experts, meanwhile, feel a systematic approach may be key to ensure Delhi NCR can benefit in the long run. Anumita Roy Chowdhury of Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) said the implementation of the ban failed and a new strategy may be required to slowly phase out firecrackers.
 
 “The graded response action plan will come into effect as the air quality starts to deteriorate, but the need is to systematically phase out firecrackers and reduce their numbers in the market. The activity can be shifted from households to the community and awareness campaigns are the need of the hour,” said Chowdhury.
 
 The Supreme Court order has said its order of lifting the suspension might require a review after Diwali, depending on the ambient air quality. Experts feel it may be too late by then with air pollution usually peaking around Diwali. “Are we really in a position to put this to the test? Inspite of a number of efforts already, the air quality has not improved from last year. It is hard to imagine how encouraging fireworks at community events is a means of better celebration, when it might lead to harm of the same community,” said Dimpy Suneja, programme officer, Centre for   (CEED).
 
 
