GAYA: Summing up Kalchakra, the 10-day long event which ended on Sunday,  , president of the  , said it was the best managed but least attended event. Though actual head count was not done, organisers reported 38,000 registrations to the district officials. According to information available on Kalchakra website, one lakh people participated in the event in 1974. In the next three Kalchakras, the number remained static at 2 lakh.

 Singh said it was the fifth such event organised in Bodh Gaya, but the management was never so good in the past prayers held in 1974, 1985, 2003 and 2012. The event passed off without any hiccup and that shows administrative arrangements, including security, sanitation, traffic management and healthcare in a very positive light. Security was the most important of all, especially in view of the terror attack of July 2013. 
 
 Social activist Motibhai said the event witnessed uninterrupted power supply. He congratulated India Power, the company having franchise for power supply in Gaya town and Bodh Gaya, for doing an excellent job.
 
 But from the point of view of the locals, the event was forgettable, said Suresh Singh. The Bodh Gaya economy, according to Singh, was tourist centric. In previous Kalchakras, people connected with tourism directly as well as indirectly earned a handsome income. “Relying on their past experience, the locals made pre-event investment in anticipation of profit. But in the end, it was mostly financial loss, particularly to the hoteliers and wholesalers,” said Singh. He attributed this loss to the twin factors of demonetisation and Chinese machinations.
 
 Hotel occupancy, according to  , general secretary of the  , had been very disappointing. In normal times, occupancy in this period touches 80-90%. In previous Kalchakras, it was almost cent per cent. However, this year hotel occupancy was less than 60%. Foreign tourists account for most of the occupancy in hotels. Tibetan refugees, who formed majority of the Kalchakra participants, did not afford hotel tariff and preferred tent accommodation or paying guest facility. 
 
