MUMBAI: The city is celebrating a more than 10 percentage-point increase in voting for the   elections. Fair enough, but what's missing from the discussion is the fact that absolute number of voters has not risen by an equally impressive margin.

 That's because the total base of registered voters in the city has actually shrunk between 2012 and 2017.
 
 Total number of eligible voters in 2012 stood at 1.02 crore. After repeated revisions carried out by the election commission, the number fell to 91.80 lakh in 2017. Thus the base on which the turnout percentage is calculated has reduced. In other words, 45% was polled in the last BMC election on a larger base compared to the 55% turnout this time, which thereby reduces overall count in the latest election. In absolute terms, number of voters this time has increased by less than 5 lakh.
 
 The same math works if one compares the turnout in 2012 with that in 2007 (see graphic). Percentage of polling in 2012 was less but it was the year in which the universe of voters was much larger.Hence, number of votes polled in 2012 was 7.34 lakh more than in 2007.
 
 Incidentally , electoral rolls were last updated in December 2016. “The   started the process of deletion of names either due to duplication of names or people who died or for some other reason. Before the deletion process, in 2012 there were around 1.02 crore voters. Now about 92 lakh remain after deletions,“ said J S  , state election commissioner.
 
 While asked about numerous complaints regarding names missing from voter lists, Saharia said, “The list was compiled by the Election Commission of India and not by the   (state election commission)...I would say that the   voters list is one of the best voters lists in the country.“
 
 SEC officials said the current electoral rolls are lean and shorn of duplications; percentage of voting is considered more accurate and closer to reflecting the actual scenario.
 
 However, several Mumbaikars contest this claim, saying the sheer number of names missing from the electoral list suggests a high rate of error. They say the turnout would have been much more if the voter list was indeed accurate.
 
