
PUDUCHERRY:   has directed the   of the police department to register cases against entities that run vocational training programmes in the Union territory without legal recognition. Firms registered as shops/establishments in   as vocational training institutions and offer education and also issue certificates to gullible candidates, but none are recognised by competent authorities. The issue came to light when a section of students of those ‘institutions’ lodged a complaint with lt governor Kiran   during an open house session.
 
 Bedi first ordered the grievance cell of Raj Nivas to probe into the complaints. Inquiries revealed that the institutions were not affiliated with competent authorities like National Council for Vocation Training / State Council for Vocational Training / All India Council for Technical Education or Tamil Nadu Technical Education department. The unauthorized institutes offer vocational courses in hotel management and issue certificates from the Bharat Sevak Samaj, New Delhi and the Centre for Technical and Vocational Development Science of Tamil Nadu.
 
 The cell, which probed into the complaints, said the validity and accreditation of those institutions were questionable. It said there were many such fake institutions in the Union territory.
 
 Bedi, as soon as the cell submitted its report, directed the crime investigation division of the police department to register cases against the institutions and initiate action against them to prevent them from misleading and cheating gullible students and parents. She suggested for evolving a standard operating procedure for running vocational training institutions in the Union territory.
 
 She said the labour and education departments could act as nodal agencies and evolve the procedure that would cover all aspects, right from the process of obtaining license to the preparation of syllabus and obtaining recognition from competent authorities and universities. The procedure will ensure periodical inspection of the institutes to ascertain whether they have basic infrastructural facilities and adequate teaching and non-teaching faculty members. It would also evaluate their teaching standards. She also directed the two departments to launch a series of programmes to enlighten the students and prevent them from falling prey to such fake institutions.
 
