NAGPUR: Around 10 towers of   ( ), located at the highly   in the interior  , are almost rendered defunct due to low bandwidth for last one year. Despite reminders to government, there has been no positive outcome so far to improve the situation leaving a substantial region in the interior part of the district ‘cut off’ from the rest.

 There were around 154 BSNL towers erected in Gadchiroli in the last two years under police protection for boosting the developmental works and also for security reasons. Out of 154, around 37 were erected in the regions highly affected with left wing terrorism in different parts of the district to combat the proliferating red influence. It has come to fore that 17, out of 37, are already functioning on upgraded version. However, it the 10 towers at crucial places in the interior where the BSNL towers are almost defunct due to low bandwidth at a time when government too wanted to reach out to the local tribal by bettering the existing infrastructure and communication system. 
 
 A letter, in possession of the TOI, showed that BSNL has been trying to highlight the issues of low bandwidth affecting the services, like no speech or one way communication, repeated hanging of the V-SAT sites for prolonged period, for the last one year. The letter also showed that the existing bandwidth would require doubling of their present capacity for ensuring optimum functioning. 
 
 Sources in the Gadchiroli district confirmed that BSNL sites at Kothi, Halewara, Kotmi, Godalwahi, Hedri, Nargunda, Reguntha, Venkatapur, Damrancha and Dechlipetha have been affected due to low bandwidth. Several letters have been exchanged between BSNL and other departments but the upgradation work could not get a nod from government leading to a stalemate. BSNL had been also categorically mentioning that the 10 of their sites affected today are amid the regions affected by left wing terrorism. 
 
 The civic administration too wanted to take their various schemes and projects to people, including upgrading the education system through digitization of the teaching media, through Internet. One of the major challenges of the Maharashtra government to spread it’s reach to the remotest corners through e-governance too is in limbo as the BSNL sites are afflicted with low bandwidth. 
 
 It was also reliably learnt through district sources that police, despite having its own internal communication system, too are facing problem due to lack of communication facilities. 
 
 According to sources in the district, the Naxalites have been targeting mobile phone towers because they know that fast communication is strategically detrimental to them and also it will bring development. “Mobile towers would open a communication gateway for the local tribal to the outside world. It would be difficult for the Naxalites to brainwash them with their redundant ideologies. On the other hand, government can reach out to people through digital media,” said an official. 
 
