PATNA: Patna University ( ) vice-chancellor Ras Bihari Prasad Singh released a specially designed centenary logo of the university at a function held here on Friday. The VC also released the design of brooch to be worn by students and faculty members in the centenary year.

 Giving details of the logo, the VC said its design has been adapted from a very old logo of the university inscribed in the doors of the Wheeler Senate House at the time of its construction. The design to be used in all official transactions and writings in the centenary year has been approved by a committee headed by pro-VC Dolly Sinha.
 
 Singh said to mark its centenary year, the PU will organize a centenary run from Vivekanand Memorial at Wheeler Senate House to   near   on Sunday. Thousands of students, teachers, non-teaching staff, alumni and prominent citizens of the city will participate in the historic run to be held at 6.30am. Deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi, education minister Krishna Nandan Verma and a host of legislators are expected to participate.
 
 The VC said the centenary run is being organized to create mass awakening in the society and to express people’s confidence in this seventh oldest university of the country. The year of establishment of PU holds special significance as even the Champaran satyagrah was also launched the same year and the world was witnessing the First World War.
 
 Meanwhile, as part of centenary celebrations, PU history department organised a special lecture on ‘Colonialism, nationalism and feminism: aspects of Indian feminist historiography’ on Friday. B R A   former VC Nihar Nandan Prasad Singh presided. PU’s history department head Padmalata Thakur welcomed the guests. Department teacher   proposed the vote of thanks. 
 
 Meanwhile, PU commerce department also organized a workshop on ‘GST – application and implication for student employability’ as part of the centenary celebrations. The workshop was attended by the VC and other faculty members of the university, said PU students’ welfare dean N K Jha. 
 
