PANAJI: The BJP took a calculated risk in denying a ticket to its speaker and sitting MLA from Mayem, Anant Shet. A two-time legislator, Shet has always preferred to remain on the sidelines and abide by the party diktat. 

 The only time he revolted was when he was denied the party ticket to contest the  . Shet stood as an independent and won the Mayem zilla panchayat seat. But he was soon back in the saffron fold. 
 
 In fact, BJP had tested Shet by denying him ministership when he was re-elected from Mayem in 2012 and pushed him into the deputy speaker’s post. He was the only re-elected BJP MLA who was denied ministership. Again, when Nuvem MLA Francisco ‘Mickky’ Pacheco had to quit as rural development minister in  , Shet was the front-runner for the job. But the BJP kept him out again and Rajendra Arlekar played his RSS cards well to bag a cabinet rank.
 
 Parsekar had to prevail over defence minister Manohar Parrikar to get Shet the speaker’s post as he felt that denying Shet even that would send wrong signals to the cadre at Mayem.
 
 Party insiders say the BJP was not planning to give him a ticket in 2012 but decided to field him only after it found the opposition in Mayem to be weak. So, it came as no surprise to many when Shet was denied the Mayem ticket. “Shet’s humble nature seems to be his undoing, too. Also, the BJP knew he didn’t have the wherewithal to contest on his own. If he had been a little bit more aggressive, Parrikar would not have much of a choice but to hand him the Mayem ticket,” reckons a political analyst.
 
 Insiders say Shet, even after being denied the party ticket, was reluctant to raise the banner of revolt. But he could not convince his supporters. So, Shet tried to negotiate with MGP and NCP.
 
 Political observers say it was clear Shet would not throw his hat into the ring as he had retained both, his speakership and the post of MLA. “If indeed Shet was serious, he would have resigned from these posts,” they say. 
 
 Parrikar was well aware of his intentions and played his cards smartly, say analysts. BJP sent its core committee leaders to persuade Shet. Not that he needed much of a persuasion, but they failed to pacify his supporters. That was gnawing the BJP, as Shet had won the last polls by 5,000-odd votes.
 
 Finally, it was left to Parrikar to ensure Shet didn’t file his nomination papers as a rebel. Having taken Shet into confidence by offering him a chairman’s post in a newly-formed corporation, which is equivalent to a state cabinet minister’s post, Parrikar in a late night move, addressed Shet’s supporters at Kumbhar vaddo and won them over. 
 
 But what remains to be seen is whether the reluctant crusader, Shet, would come out openly in support of BJP’s Mayem candidate Pravin Zantye and help his party retain the seat once again.
 
