BHOPAL: The shot goes screaming like a  . The   it away like a pesky bug and takes guard again. No sweat. It’s only when the goalie takes off the helmet that you see her long locks. Meet Khushboo Khan, for whom beating boys is all in a day’s work — after a 10km walk just to reach the stadium.

 Seventeen-year-old Khushboo laughs and calls herself an “aberration”. The boys she plays with call her a hero. Khushboo, who lives in a tin shed where you can’t turn around without hitting something, practices with boys because there aren’t many women hockey players in Bhopal. She runs, sweats, and competes with men — even gets the better of them. 
 
 A national player, she is the daughter of an auto driver and one of five children. She understands nothing will ever come easy for her. She doesn’t even have money to repair her cycle so she walks from her slum in Jehangirabad every day, in searing heat, to  . 
 
 “I can’t afford public transport. Buying a bicycle is out of the question. My coach had given me a cycle but its rim got damaged,” said Khushboo. “I need financial support as it has become quite tough for me to continue like this. However, I am determined to play for my country,” said Khushboo.
 
 She has represented the state in national tournaments in senior, junior and sub-junior categories. She embraced hockey only four years ago. “One of my friends told me about a hockey summer camp at Lal Parade ground. I went there. After the camp, I started going to the men’s MP Hockey Academy at Maj Dhyan Chand ground as I believe I can make a career in this game. Since then, I have never looked back,” said Khushboo. 
 
 Asked about playing with boys, the sprightly teenager said, “There is no coaching facility for girls in Bhopal. But playing with the boys is a blessing in disguise for me. Defending the goalpost against men has made it easier for me to play with girls in national tournaments. Now, it has become a habit for me to practise with the boys as I peg my game at their speed and strength.” 
 
 Khushboo says she’s not waiting for someone to come forward to help her. “If someone helps, fine. I will keep playing, any way. My dream is to get into the MP women’s hockey academy,” said Khushboo. “I am ready for any challenge to realise my dream.” 
 
 Her coach Habib Hasan feels Khushboo has the potential to play for the country. “She was allowed to play with men after looking at her passion. She will make it to the national team one day,” said Hasan. 
 
