Sitting majestically in the heart of Byculla is Mumbai’s oldest museum and its first colonial building built specifically with the intention of housing a museum.
 
  In 1975, more than a century after it was established, it was renamed from the erstwhile Victoria & Albert Museum to Dr Bhau Daji Lad   in honour of the physician, surgeon, Sanskrit scholar, and first Indian Sheriff of Bombayof Goan origin.
  
  Dr Ramakrishna Vitthal alias Bhau Lad Parsekar was born in Mandrem on June 8, 1821, and moved to Bombay in 1829, along with his father and brother. He joined the Central Marathi School that gave admission to boys who were fluent in reading and writing Marathi in Balbodh and Modi characters.
  
  He topped the Elphinstone Scholarship in History and Geography and came in second in Chemistry.
  
  Ten years after the first medical college in the country was started in Calcutta, the Grant Medical College saw its first batch of 12 students. Bhau Daji was among the five Goan students in this first batch admitted in 1845 that graduated in 1851.
  
  He worked as a sub-assistant surgeon and then decided to set up his own hospital at a time when Bombay had only three public dispensaries — J J Hospital, Bombay Native Dispensary with a branch at Colaba and Fort Free Dispensary.
  
  Dossabhai Framji Cama a multimillionaire and one of the pioneers in the Indo- Chinese trade agreed to fund a hospital, and the Nagdevi Charitable Dispensary was set up in Barbhoy’s House on May 2, 1853, on Nagdevi Street where Dr Bhau Daji agreed to provide honorary services as Medical Superintendent. The hospital saw more than 8,000 patients in its first year.
  
  When the city was grappling with the small pox epidemic during 1858-60, and when vaccinations were a novelty, Dr Bhau helped make arrangements for it in the hospital’s feeder dispensaries much before the government got its act together.
  
  Dr Bhau was one of the two secretaries of the Grant College Medical Society when it was set up and he was later elected its president, after the convention of European Professor of the college being the president of the Society was set aside at its annual meeting in January 1855.
  
  “Bhau Daji Lad remains a major figure in the public consciousness of Bombay,” says poet, cultural theorist and curator Ranjit Hoskote. “The former Victoria & Albert is now named after him, and indeed correctly so, since he was instrumental in raising funds from the Bombay elite to create this institution. When we read his original charter for the museum, we find that he had an astonishingly utopian civic vision, in which the museum was seen as a space for citizens to meet and engage in debate and the production of knowledge, and not only in the consumption of cultural artefacts. In this, he was far ahead of his 19th-century Western contemporaries, and would be very much at home in today's global art-world context, with its emphasis on knowledge production and participatory processes.”
  
  In ‘Dr   — A biography’ published in 1974, G M Laud writes, “At the end of the golden age, Dr Bhau Daji emerged as a reputed physician and skilled surgeon ever conscious of his duty to the society, an indologist of international reputation, a pioneer of valuable discoveries in Indian antiquary, an oriental scholar who could unfold the traditional richness and influence the course of educational and social reforms, and a great liberal who had the political sagacity to view the future of his country and guide its course.”
  
  He was acknowledged as the leader of the library movement, promoted the   and the patron founder of the   Improvement Library. He began taking an active interest in women’s education too, supporting the Marathi Hindi School in Lohar Chawl, which later merged with the Kandewadi School and was called the Dr Bhau Daji Girl’s School.
  
  Dr Bhau Daji passed away at the age of 52 on May 31, 1874, after an attack of paralysis. A road in Matunga is also named after him. His work even found mention in the   journal ‘The Lancet’ in 1855. “His career has been one of such prosperity and success as probably none of our English physicians could boast in any part of the first ten years of their professional lives and he now enjoys an amount of practice, which notwithstanding the novelty of regular professional men and fees among the natives, and their aversion to pay for anything intellectual, a medical man of his age in England would be proud of. He has been eminently fortunate in his practice as a surgeon and has performed with utmost uniform success, a vast number of the most difficult operations such as lithotomy, cataract, removal of tumours and midwifery operations.”
