After RAW GM Kurt Angle announced a huge fatal five-way match for the main event for RAW exclusive pay-per-view Extreme Rules to be the number one contender for the Universal Championship last week, anticipation on how the five men will build momentum going in to Extreme Rules was high. The show was kicked off by the Eater of the Worlds Bray Wyatt proclaiming that he will win the main event and rip apart the chest of the Universal Champion Brock Lesnar and went on to issue warning to all other competitors before the Big Dog   decided to confront Wyatt. Angle interrupted the face-off and booked Reigns vs Wyatt to as the first match of the show. 

 
 
 
 Angle made the match and both superstars went at each other before Samoa Joe marched down to the ring and took out Reigns and Wyatt with the Coquina Clutch.   then made his way to the ring and evened the odds and pushed Joe out of the ring. Reigns hit the Superman punch on Wyatt and the former Shield members stood tall in the ring. Angle then made the main event for the night with Reigns and Rollins taking on Joe and Wyatt. 
 
  
  
 
 Drifter   finally got the attention of the RW GM and angle made the match with Dean Ambrose 
 
 
 
 
 Tozawa made short work of Divari and got the pin-fall victory with Swanton off the top rope. 
 
 
 
 Samson started with a song in the middle of the ring before Ambrose made his way to the ring with The Miz and Maryse at the commentary desk. Samson was booked strong and had Ambrose reeling for the most of the match. Ambrose though build momentum before Samson got the knee on Ambrose. The Miz came down to the ring and attacked Samson thus disqualifying Ambrose and handing the win to Samson. Ambrose then got hold of Miz before Samson hit the Intercontinental Champion with a swinging neck-breaker. 
 
  
  
 
 Backstage Big Cass found Enzo battered and beaten up and said he got jumped 
 
 
 
 
 Balor made his way to the ring but instead of Anderson, it was the advocate of Brock Lesnar, Paul Heyman who made his way to the ring. Heyman stated that against Lesnar Wyatt, Rollins, Joe and Reigns will all be victims at the hands of the Beast Incarnate. But for Balor, Heyman said the Demon is nobody’s victim and is no underdog either. Heyman went on to say he is looking forward for Balor v Lesnar. 
 
  
  
 
 Anderson finally made his way to the ring and the match was underway and Balor did not waste much time to hit his winning combo – Sling blade, dropkick to the corner and the Coup de Grace on his real-life best friend to earn the victory. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 With a double knee on the corner, Banks beat Fox but the Fox hand the last laugh after hitting Banks with a scissors’ kick in retaliation to banks slapping Fox’s boyfriends, Noam Dar. 
 
 
 
 
 Titus Brand’s momentum was halted as Apollo Crews picked up a victory over Kalisto with a Salido Del Sol after Crews seemed to be distracted by a shouting Titus on the outside. 
 
 
 
 
 Matt Hardy hit the twist of fate on Sheamus after Cesaro was taken out of the equation by Jeff Hadry on the outside. The win meant, Hardy’s could choose the stipulation for the match for the RAW tag team championships at Extreme Rules, and the Champiosn choose a steel cage match for their title defence. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Aries build momentum ahead of his match against Neville for the cruiserweight championship at Extreme Rules taking out Tony Nese with the Last Chancery. Neville was at ringside but though it wise enough not to jump A-Double again. Instead Neville send a message to Aires by putting Nese in his submission – the Rings of Jupiter. 
 
 
 
 Bliss made short work of James with a snap DDT before taking out the Kendo Stick to punish James and reminded number one contender for the Women’s Championship Bayley what is in store for her at Extreme Rules. Bliss hit James on the back with the stick before Bayley came out to help James and caught Bliss off guard and took the stick in her hands before Bliss rolled out to safety. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Rollins and Reigns worked together but only for brief while as a confusion that lead to Reigns bumping in to Rollins accidently allowed Joe to out Rollins in the Coquina Clutch and earned the victory. 
 
  
  
 
 
