Indian-origin tech leaders in Canada say the contro versial visa and travel restrictions imposed by President  's executive orders will be a boon for tech recruitment and investment in Canada.

 “This provides a great opportunity for the best talent from India to come, live and work in Canada,“ said Shafin Diamond  , the CEO of Fantasy 360, a Vancouverbased global leader in creating immersive experiences and Games using Virtual Reality (VR), Augmented Reality (AR) and Mixed Reality (MR).
 
 “We are already getting inquiries from Indian techies, both in India and in the United States, about relocating to Vancouver,“ said Tejani.
 
 Together with his partner Ray Walia, another NRI in Vancouver, who runs the notfor-profit tech incubator,  , Tejani is working on streamlined avenues to attract top tech talent from India.
 
 The duo is part of the Canadian technology community that has written to Prime Minister   urging him to provide visas to those caught by Trump's executive orders.
 
 “In choosing to hire, train, and mentor the best people in the world, we can build global companies that grow our economy,“ said the letter adding “By embracing diversity, we can drive innovation to benefit the world.'' They have a target of bringing a dozen Indian startups with a focus on VRAR MR to British Columbia, which also has a shortage of programmers and other skilled IT professionals.
 
 “We are confident we will be able to this,“ said Tejani, whose companies have launched over 40 start-ups in 21 different countries, employ ing over 350 people and generating over $100 million in annual revenues.
 
 For Walia, who co-founded Launch Academy in 2012 to become Vancouver's top startup-incubator, the situation in the US has prompted his group to set up specialized services for Indian techies looking to relocate to Canada.
 
 Walia has developed a program at Launch Academy that leverages the  . The program helps international startups relocate their head offices to Canada and get Permanent Residency grant in Canada for up to five key members of a startup and their family members within 6 months.
 
 “The Launch Academy Startup Visa Program allows Indians to have the best of both worlds and build their businesses from Canada and continue to not only service the Indian market but also to continue to grow domestic operations in India as well.“
 
 Analysts predict that India's IT outsourcing industry, worth around $108 billion employing some four million people, will start looking elsewhere if the American restrictions are enacted. Three bills have been introduced in the US Congress seeking to revamp the H-1B visa programme, which India's IT sector uses to send thousands of highly-skilled workers to America every year.
 
