GURUGRAM: Residents of Ambience   are up in arms against Ambience Group, the developer that built the condominium as well as   that hosts   Kempinski off NH-8, for tweaking the highway connectors to avoid the excise department’s axe.

 The developer reportedly closed down the first three cuts, along the sector road, that connected the   highway with Ambience mall, The Leela and   in the wake of the Supreme Court’s recent order banning sale of liquor within 500 metres of state and national highways. 
 
 Now, the fourth cut, which opens near   and is around 1km from the highway, is the only way to go to all the three above mentioned addresses. While the new alignment will help Ambience mall and The Leela escape the 500-metre axe, Lagoon residents alleged that the move was illegal and would inconvenience the people living in the area.
 
 “When the first three cuts were open, the distance from the highway to the mall, The Leela and Lagoon were around 20 metre, 60 metre and 500 metre, respectively. Now, all cars heading to the mall and The Leela will use the fourth cut, take a U-turn and travel through the sector road, passing by Lagoon,” said Sanjay Lal Mathur, RWA president.
 
 The new alignment would make the motorable distance between the NH-8 and The Leela around 2km. Similarly, Lagoon residents would have to travel 1km extra now to reach the highway, and vice versa.
 
 “The   order was meant to deter drunken driving on highways. But, now, people will drink and drive outside our home on the sector road,” added Lal.
 
 The residents have lodged a complaint with the department of town and country planning (DTCP) with the official map, highlighting the actual exits and entries for the mall and the hotel. A copy of the complaint, which has been received by DTCP officials, has been accessed by TOI. The residents have also written to deputy commissioner (DC) Hardeep Singh in this regard.
 
 They further alleged that the authorities seemed reluctant to act against the developer because of his close association with one of the state cabinet ministers. “The district administration is least bothered to safeguard the rights of the residents,” said Isha Singh, a resident.
 
 “If the state government fails to help us, we will approach the Supreme Court for this is a case of contempt of court. They cannot just take drunkards from highways and put them on sector roads,” said Kavita Roy, treasurer, RWA.
 
 DC Singh said: “The department of town and country planning and the senior town and country planner have been asked to look into the matter.”
 
 The developer didn’t respond to repeated calls and mails.
 
 
