GURUGRAM: Taking a key step forward towards removing hurdles in the   (NPR) project,   on Monday handed over   of   to   in New Palam Vihar. They will get the possession of plots in a week and have six months to vacate the buildings that come in the alignment of the much-awaited expressway. 

 As many as 61 oustees, who had registry documents, were given allotment letters by PWD minister Rao Narbir Singh at John Hall. The case related to the allotment of alternative plots to those with general power of attorney ( ), special power of attorney (SPA) and vacant plots are pending before the  . They will get the allotment letters only after the conclusion of the court case.
 
 “Huda had conducted draw of lots for oustees with registry documents in July 2016, but they were not given allotment letters owing to court cases. Now, we have given the allotment letter. The possession of plots will be given in Sector 110A in a week’s time,” Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav said.
 
 He also said Huda has started the development work in Sector 110A so that oustees can start constructing their houses. “The construction of houses by oustees and development work can go hand in hand,” Yadav said, adding that development work would be completed in next four months in order to help people shift before the expiry of six-month period.
 
 Many residents were happy to get the allotment letters after years of wait, while some of them were disappointed and returned the documents as their name did not figure in the list. “I have registry and I was allotted alternative plot in last draw, but I was not given the allotment letter,” said Sushil Mishra, one of the oustees.
 
 Clarifying this, estate officer-I Vivek Kalia said, “People who had registry at the time when land acquisition process started were given allotment letter today. There are people who had GPA at the time of land acquisition, but subsequently get the registry done. But in our records, such people are GPA holders and allotment of plots to such people is subject to the outcome of court case.”
 
 He added that people who got the registry later — after the land acquisition process — have a valid contention, and Huda may deny them plot. “We will study such cases and resolve them at the earliest,” said Kalia.
 
 
