Nagpur: To throw light on literary work of noted Marathi poet and littérateur Shirish   and to pay rich tributes, a programme titled ‘Shirishanchya Sawalit’ was organized at Vidarbha Sahitya Sangh (VSS) on Saturday. 

 A noted play writer and author Anjali Karanjakar was invited as chief guest to enlighten the audience about Pai’s scholarly works, her perception and dedication towards life. In her speech, Karanjakar narrated a story about Shirish Pai’s affection about butterflies. She highlighted Pai’s contribution to the field of media as a journalist. Pai also shouldered the responsibility of the newspaper ‘Maratha Vruttapatra’ for six years and made her mark there.
 
 Talking about Haiku — a three-lined poetry form, Karanjakar said, Haiku originally was introduced by Masaoka Shiki of Japan. This Japanese poem concept was instigated in India by Rabindranath Tagore. Shirish Pai was the first to write Haiku in Marathi language. Haiku writing involves precision of words with brief meaning and it depicts incidents from real life experiences which Pai did with perfection, she added.
 
 Shirish Pai, also known as ‘Aai Pai’, contributed to Haiku and Marathi literature with her soulful compositions. Pai also trained many Haikukars in India. 
 
 Audience was highly engrossed when Karanjakar recited a short poetry of Pai, ‘Fool pakhru chan kiti distey’, from ‘Tip phule tip ga’. Using metaphors in her poetry, Pai always tried to showcase how smallest of things can bring happiness to one’s life. ‘Aajacha diwas’, another short story based on human behaviour and its ability to affect the world was another exceptional work written by Pai was recited on the occasion. 
 
 Noted theatre-artist Prakash Lunge recited some verses of ‘Mann kashayat lagat nahi’ penned by poet Grace which enthralled the poetry lovers. 
 
 Dilip Mhaisalkar, member of organizing committee also delivered a few verses from Pai’s work. Speaking about essence of Haiku, he said, “It is just like enlightenment of life one can achieve with poetry. Shirish Pai was a gem and she will always be remembered with her Haiku compositions and literary works.”
 
 The event concluded with vote of thanks presented by Madhuri Wadibhasme.
 
 (Reporting by Mrunalini Kohat)
 
 
