MADURAI: While the elected representatives of the people have expressed their support for  , they have turned a blind eye to the sentiments of the public who would like O Panneerselvam to continue as the chief minister of  . The general feeling is that the state MLAs have let the people down.

 Executive director of Peoples’ Watch, Tamil Nadu, Henry Tiphagne said although he has had many differences with the AIADMK in the past, in his assessment, O Paneerselvam has been by and large the most accessible CM Tamil Nadu has ever seen. “Simplicity has been his greatest attribute. During his short stints as chief minister, he has always proved his mettle except for the violence at Marina. But I would attribute this to the police, who though under his governance, were receiving instructions from elsewhere,” he said.
 
 Although the caretaker chief minister spoke his mind late, he revealed the autocratic power of the ‘Thanjavur gang’ that would ruin any democracy. “It was painful to see a former DGP being boarded onto a bus and taken away,” he said. The governor should take note of the fear and intimidation that was behind the chief minister’s resignation, before making his decision. “If O Panneerselvam continues as CM, it will be the best for the state. Else Tamil Nadu is doomed,” he added.
 
 President of Mahiya Industrial Estate, Nawaz Babu, said that people have become used to not expecting anything from their leaders. However, when Panneerselvam handled the jallikattu protests effectively, the public witnessed an emerging leader, he added. Even when he was turned away by the protesters in several villages, he responded in a dignified manner without resorting to vengeance. “Above all, we want a leader who has been in the public domain, not someone who has never been in public service and has a dubious past,” he said.
 
 Theni district minorities cell secretary M Abudahir said that caretaker chief minister   should be retained for the betterment of the state. “Sasikala is not an individual person, she comes with a gang of 30 people who will loot the state,” he said.
 
 A Asokan, secretary of Makkal Sakthi Iyakkam, said that Panneerselvam’s handling of the jallikattu protests has been his greatest achievement. “He took the right decision without underestimating the student protests. He managed to achieve what Tamil Nadu wanted. This proves he’s capable to run the state. Even his visit to Andhra Pradesh to get water for the state was timely and diplomatic,” he said. Only after his press meet at the Marina, have the people understood that he had been performing his duties under much duress, so it is only right that he remains the chief minister, he added.
 
 
