NEW DELHI:   witnessed another disturbance with an examination paper, a few days after an issue cropped up at the School of Open Learning (SOL) where students had complained of questions being "out of syllabus." At DU's   entrance exam for MPhil and PhD, held on Wednesday, several students alleged that "a large number of questions were the same for both MPhil and PhD exams, despite the entrance test being for a different purpose." The students have written to DU's Dean of Student's Welfare ( ) office. 

  The Buddhist Studies entrance test for both MPhil and PhD are of 50 marks each but students sitting for the exams alleged that they found several questions similar for both the tests. "How can they have questions that are similar? MPhil exam is not the same as that of PhD," a student said. 
 
  One MA student, however, said that questions can be similar as the subject is the same for both. However, many students complained of how "several portions of our syllabus wasn't covered in the question paper as no question came from there," he said. 
 
 Students claimed they have approached the DSW with a complaint letter.
 
  A source in the DSW confirmed and said that "we have received the letters from the students and an inquiry will begin on this. We will investigate if there were in fact such a high number of similarities as students allege," said the source.
 
 However, speaking to TOI, Head of the Buddhist department, KTS Sarao, clarified and said that "repetition is common as the syllabus is nearly the same. We ask varied questions to test the students and at times these questions turn out to be same. There is no truth to the claims that a majority of questions were same. There were hardly three to four questions which might be of similar pattern but the whole paper was varied," he said. 
 
 The HOD also alleged that "there is one particular professor in the department who is known to instigate students against the department and create false notions about us. He is obsessed with creating controversy and often students fall in his trap." 
 
 Buddhist Studies is a department which has sent a number of members to DUSU, including the members this year.
 
 
