KOLKATA:  , which along with   is the most iconic and enduring symbols of the city, is all set to get a security makeover.

 For close to a century, the   had only a 2ft high balustrade fence to protect it against intrusion. Barbed wire was later installed atop it, but it didn’t do much to prevent unauthorized entry into its 57-acre campus on the Maidan. Now, it is being secured with a 10ft high iron railing to prevent trespassing and secure the grounds and the marble masterpiece with its priceless possessions.
 
 Speaking to TOI, VMH secretary and curator Jayanta Sengupta said the iron fence — similar to the ones installed at Raj Bhavan in   and Rashtrapati Bhavan in Delhi — was a key requirement that had emerged in a security audit conducted by Central Industrial Security Force in 2015.
 
 The CISF audit came after a court order on a petition filed by activist Subhas Datta following the theft of Rabin- dranath Tagore’s Nobel medallion from Santiniketan.
 
 Victoria Memorial Hall secretary and curator Jayanta Sengupta said: “The balustrade fencing marked the VMH grounds and ensured that there is no encroachment. But in terms of security, it wasn’t much of a deterrent and served as an ornamental fence. Though barbed wires were later installed on the balustrades, it didn’t secure the grounds. The wires are rusting in sections and have been pried to access the grounds from the western side facing the Race Course. The iron fence that is now being installed is meant to stop unauthorised infiltration without blocking Victoria Memorial’s view from outside.”
 
 In the audit, CISF termed the absence of a perimeter fence a security hazard to the museum. The force said it needed proper access control of the grounds before taking charge. CISF has been assigned to take over the security of both VMH and Indian Museum. “The CISF report had suggested a 8-ft to 12-ft high perimeter fence. We, therefore, decided the railing would be 10-ft high,” Sengupta said.
 
 The design of the railing was approved by the VMH board and the Union culture ministry before the project was handed over to CPWD. The defence ministry, that controls the Maidan, has also approved the project. The installation of railings along the 2.9 km boundary has begun and is expected to be completed by March 2018. “We are taking care that the railing skirts around trees. No trees will be felled for it,” he added.
 
 While door frame metal detectors are installed at the north, south and west gate, X-ray machines are being procured to scan bags before visitors enter the VMH grounds. Till now, the only X-ray machine that is currently there is at the entrance to the building.
 
 CCTV coverage is also being ramped up to cover not only the museum but also the grounds. The camera count is expected to go up from 31 now to over 200 to provide comprehensive coverage. A control centre will also be set up within the building with IP-based access in laptops of key officials. “We are also getting the objects and artefacts RFID tagged so that their GPS locations can be tracked. Of the inventory of around 35,000 objects that we have, tagging has been done for 6,000. The rest should be complete by March 2018,” he said.
 
 CISF is expected to move in and take over security sometime early next year. Around 130 personnel will be deployed at VMH. “Since VMH is an icon of Kolkata, the security element is very critical. With these measures, we will ensure that security is more comprehensive than it is at present,” Sengupta said.
 
