NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court’s order holding   guilty for contempt is likely to boost India’s case for extradition of the absconding businessman from UK to face criminal proceedings here for not refunding bank loan of Rs 9,000 crore.

 When the matter was being heard in the apex court, a bench of Justices A K Goel and U U Lalit had raised question on how its order, if it was passed against Mallya, would be executed as he had left the country and taken shelter in  . The bench had specifically asked attorney general Mukul Rohatgi to take instructions from the Centre to provide modalities under which its order would be implemented.
 
 Rohatgi, after taking instruction from the government, had informed the court that the Centre is already trying to get him extradited and the apex court’s order would further boost the process to bring him back to face proceedings in India.
 
 Government's efforts to bring Mallya to justice in India for defaulting on bank loans got into motion when the UK accepted its request to help extradite the absconding tycoon. Acting on an extradition request sent by   over the IDBI Bank scam and a service tax case,   arrested Mallya last month and produced him in a court which released him on conditional bail on a Rs 5.4 crore bond. His arrest set the stage for what is going to be a long drawn legal battle between Mallya and Indian agencies --CBI and the   --over the Centre's move to bring him home to face the law for not repaying crores he had borrowed for his now defunct Kingfisher Airlines. As British courts have often employed tough standards to allow extradition requests, Centre will have a tough task to convince the court. But the apex court order could give the Centre the much needed boost as the order has been passed by the highest judicial institution and the UK court might give it due weightage.
 
 The court’s order would also send a strong message to other defaulters not paying back loans taken from banks. As per government records, there are 9,150 wilful defaulters of state-run banks till December 31, 2016, and suits have been filed against 8,364 defaulters who had taken loans amounting to Rs 85,258 crore.
 
 
