PATNA: Patna’s working women have hailed the Parliament for passing the Maternity Benefit (Amendment) Bill,  , thereby increasing the maternity leave entitlement from 12 weeks to 26 weeks. 

 The Bill was passed by the Lok Sabha on March 9, a day after the nation celebrated International Women’s Day. The Rajya Sabha approved it in August 2016. Now it would be sent to the President for his approval.
 
 Schoolteacher Neha Kumari feels the new law will relieve the working women of a lot of stress. “All working women do not have that option of leaving their baby in the care of a relative. Helpless, many women end up quitting their job,” said the woman in her mid-20s whose school gave her 12-week paid leave and 12-week leave without pay when she was in the family way and was blessed with a baby girl four years back.
 
 Banker Priyambada said it would ensure peace of mind to nursing mothers. “Even if your Reporting Manager is lenient and ready to grant you leave beyond your entitlement, you feel the pressure after 12 weeks of paid leave and another 12 weeks of leave without pay. With rightful entitlement, working women will certainly be a relieved lot,” said Priyambada, a private bank’s operations officer in her late 20s.
 
 Gynaecologist Usha Didwania opines three months is ample time for women to recover from the strain of delivery. However, the doctor said, infants need special motherly care for at least six months. “We advise every mother to breastfeed her baby for six months,” said Dr Didwania.
 
 Foundation of Reproductive Health Services of India’s state clinical service manager Nikhat Alam pointed out the amended Bill has also made crèche facility mandatory at workplaces with 50 or more employees.
 
 As for surrogate mothers, the maternity leave entitlement will be calculated from the date the child is handed over to them. 
 
 Details of the amended law will be sent to state governments once it is approved by the President. “It is a bit premature to talk about the amendments for now,” said Bihar health department’s deputy secretary Anil Kumar.
 
 
