PUNE: Not sure whom to vote for in the coming municipal elections? Fret not. Just log on to the municipal corporation website and watch candidates making a fervent pitch about themselves in two-minute video clips. Still not satisfied? Check out the proposed area development plans prepared by candidates, if they win the elections. 

 These are some of the plans drawn up for the first time by the state   commission to ensure that voters have a fair idea about candidates seeking election.
 
 Ten municipal corporations in the state, including,  , will go to the polls in February this year. 
 
 However, the candidates will not be able to upload the videos on the municipal corporation’s website on their own. These videos will be screened by the commission and the election officials before they are uploaded on the website. 
 
 But that’s not all. Flex boards containing summaries of affidavits filed by candidates will be put up at the polling centres and also published in newspapers.
 
 The state election commission has also prepared an additional form titled ‘Vision statement for your area’, where a candidate has to outline an area development plan if he/she is elected. This form will also be part of the affidavit.
 
 Mumbai, Thane, Pune,  , Nashik, Nagpur, Ulhasnagar, Amravati, Solapur and Akola will go to polls next month.
 
 “We will announce the poll dates in the first fortnight of January for elections to be held in February. While the dates are still to be finalised, the election process will be completed by February end ahead of the March board exams,’’ J S Sahariya, state election commissioner, told TOI on Wednesday.
 
 Apart from ten municipal corporations, 26   will also go to the polls in the coming month. The commission wants to implement similar reality checks for candidates contesting the zilla parishad elections in future. 
 
 The commission is eager to hold the elections on the same date to bring down poll-related expenses. “We want the expenses to be reduced but there should be enough staff and machinery to ensure that both the elections are held at the same time. It was yet to be decided whether the elections will be held consecutively or on the same day,’’ he said.
 
 Besides, the commission has also directed municipal corporations going in for elections to put up flex boards giving a summary of affidavits of candidates highlighting the total immovable assets, movable assets and if any criminal cases are pending against them. The affidavits have already been put up on websites so that people can access the details. The election commission officials maintained that they wanted voters to use their discretion while voting for the right candidate.
 
 To ensure the candidates face less rejection, the state election commission has also provided facilities for online filling up of nomination forms. Candidates would have to take a printout of these forms and submit them to the respective returning officers. This has been tried and tested in the council elections, which saw less rejection of candidates, said Sahariya.
 
 The election commission has developed a software for segregating the details of the candidates. “The software would ensure more clarity and help in avoiding mistakes committed during manual filling up of forms,’’ said Sahariya. The election commission has already intimated all the corporations about these directives, he added.
 
 
