Thane: Lit up with festive lights, filled with the aroma of various traditional delicacies and flooded with the hustle and bustle of festively dressed men, women and children, the lake-city has been transform into a festive hub as Thaneites celebrate Navratri as well as Durga Puja festivities.

 Besides hopping from one pandal to another—be it Ambe Ma and Durga Ma pandals—lake-city denizens are already excited to participate in the extravagant celebration complete with feasting on authentic delicacies and joining cultural programmes. 
 
 Thaneites have been taking part in the pujas, especially Sandhi Puja which is the most auspicious time of the day. Shivani Gadge (28), a Naupada resident, said, “Every year, my family and I visit the Gaodevi temple in the morning for prayers. However, we are planning to seek the Devi’s darshan in the afternoon to avoid the morning rush. We will then join our society members for a small bhondla, garba and dandiya celebration as well.”
 
 Many have planned a string of activities, including pandal hopping, participating in cultural programs organised by pandals, munching on traditional delicacies, shopping and spending time with family through the rest of the day.
 
 “This is our biggest festival in the entire year. We have a packed schedule which involves visiting all Durga pandals in the city as well as a few in Mumbai. We will first visit the mandir in the morning to seek the blessings of Maa Durga. After that, we will feast on some delicious bhog, mutton cutlets, rolls and various bangla fish delicacies, that is the part we are most excited about,” said Sharmishta Bhattacharya, a   resident.
 
 Many Thaneites have even taken the day off from work to celebrate the big day.
 
 “While we get a holiday for Dassehra, as it falls on a Saturday, my wife and I have taken a Thursday off from work so that we can not only visit all pandals on Maha Ashtami, but also get some bhog which we would have missed as it is given during the day on weekdays, and we would have otherwise been at work,” said Ashis Dey, a Hiranandani Meadows resident. Meanwhile, pandal committee members left no stone unturned when it came to pleasing and attracting the masses. “While most devotees come first to visit the Devi, we have ensured that they stay back for the cultural programs we organise,” said Vidya Ghag, the head of Shivai Nagar Navratra Utsav Mandal’s women’s group.
 
