NAGPUR: Newborns at Daga Hospital in Nagpur district can be enrolled into the Aadhaar database right at birth, just like all hospitals register children for birth certificates. However, of the roughly 4,000 babies born here over the last three months or so, only 105 have been enrolled in Aadhaar.

 The state urban development department issued a notification on October 29, 2016, launching the Aadhaar Linked Birth Registration (ALBR) project. This made the state’s public health department the authority for ALBR.
 
 The pilot project executed by the state public health department at Daga Memorial Women’s Hospital has been facing hurdles, informed deputy director of health Dr  . So, not even 3% of the total newborns here have been issued the 12-digit unique Aadhaar number. Medical superintendent Dr   told TOI, “Aadhaar number has been generated for 105 neonates at the hospital.”
 
 The registrations are being done by the hospital in a tablet-based system named Child Enrolment Lite Client (CELC), introduced by   (UIDAI). The registrations are done based on only the photo of newborn, thumbprint of the mother, and   card of either parents. The name on the child’s Aadhaar card appears as ‘Son or Daughter of’.
 
 Parvekar said, “The hospital has been provided two tablets. The registration is done post-delivery, on the day the baby gets discharge.” On an average about 1,200 deliveries take place at the hospital every month. Going by that number, over 4,000 deliveries would have taken place since the project started, so the figure of 105 looks small.
 
 Parvekar pointed out, “It’s because the hospital has to tackle a huge mob of patients. Many come from other districts and states, and do not have their Aadhaar Cards with them, without which we cannot register their child.”
 
 “We have started taking steps to bring more awareness regarding this. Right at the Outdoor Patient section, we frequently make general announcements regarding the Aadhar scheme and the documents required,” she said.
 
 “Secondly, the tablet system was provided to us pretty late, and even after that there were technical issues with the registering system for several days. Moreover, the collector office was supposed to appoint staff for data entry, which has not been done till date,” she said.
 
 Dr Parvekar added, “Currently, we have managed to streamline things a lot. We have trained and involved our own Class IV employees in handling the tablets, and they do the registrations. They are trying to compensate for the backlog.”
 
 The earlier government notification had said the Aadhaar enrolment number would be linked to birth registration number of the child. However, the government has made some changes during execution. A NMC official confirmed that both identities are being generated independently.
 
