CHENNAI: Amid a dengue   and more than 11,000 cases of fever across various hospitals in the state, doctors’ bodies are demanding that the state declare a ‘public health emergency’ to contain the communicable diseases.

 The Indian Public Health Association, which has surveyed ten districts in Tamil Nadu, estimates that there have been at least 12,500   cases in the last six months. “The government is quoting 10,000 cases in the state since January. We are grossly underestimating the number of dengue and influenza cases. We have an  . We have not been able to contain the disease for the last six months,” said the association’s state president Dr S Elango, who was the former director of public health in the state. 
 
 Declaring an emergency will give the public   money and manpower to contain the disease, besides legal powers to initiate action against those who don’t fall in line, he said.
 
 Elango said he submitted a status report to the state health department, including health secretary J Radhakrishnan, and estimates that there have been at least 75 dengue fatalities besides deaths due to influenza. “Health and local body officials should deal with the issue on a war footing before the situation turns worse,” he said.
 
 While there could be a mild reduction in cases as heavy rain in northern districts including some areas of Chennai could have washed away the pupae, larvae and some adult Aedes mosquitoes, stagnant rainwater could worsen the condition next week, say doctors. 
 
 The health department, which admits that there is an outbreak, denied that there was an ‘emergency.’   Edappadi K   held a review meeting with health department officials on Monday, following which health minister C Vijaya Baskar said the state had worked out a slew of measures to contain the outbreak. “Several campuses, including government offices, are breeding grounds for mosquitoes. We have asked all district administrators to ensure that Thursdays are declared as anti-dengue day. They will clean up the campus and keep it Aedes free,” he said.
 
 Director of public health Dr K Kolandasamy said, “Most people who died were referred to tertiary care centres very late. If we find that doctors are ignoring symptoms, we will consider it as negligence and initiate action.”
 
