NEW DELHI:   returns to the   stage with their rendition of German playwright and poet   Brecht’s classic Mother Courage and Her Children. The play will open at the Kamani Auditorium over September 27, 28 and 29.

 Directed by Quasar Thakore Padamsee, Mother Courage and Her Children is the third of five plays to be staged under the Aadyam banner this year. Aadyam, a theatre initiative of the Aditya Birla Group is in its third year.
 
 Mother Courage and Her Children is a biting satirical play about survival, entrepreneurship and the absurdity of war. Filled with songs, marches and drums, Mother Courage’s caravan navigates the minefields of both the battlefield and bureaucracy, to create a tale of hope and resilience of an everyday kind.
 
 Says Aadyam artistic director Divya Bhatia, “Mother Courage and Her Children is a play about fortitude and hope in the face of adversity. While it is set in a war zone, it is really about how people around the world confront everyday battles. It is also an ode to mothers around the world, who overcome the gravest of obstacles and challenges, to simply play their parts with determination and courage.”
 
 Quasar’s ensemble cast will see the return of theatre veteran Arundhati Nag to the Mumbai stage after a gap of 38 years. Nag, who will be playing the title role, will be ably supported by Abhishek Krishnan, Aseem Hattangady, Asif Ali Beg, Bhavna Pani, Bhushan Vikas, Keith Sequeira, Rajat Tiwari, Tavish Bhattacharyya, and Trupti Khamkar.
 
  wrote the play in 1939 and set it over the course of 12 years (1624 to 1636) that are represented in 12 scenes. The play’s protagonist is a woman, who will do anything to survive the challenges of a war, emotional and personal loss, while making business and trade manoeuvres to endure them all. Quasar sets it in the Indian context without limiting it to socio-political shades, without setting time restrictions to its narrative and without taking away its universal appeal.
 
 Says Quasar, “We’re placing the action in an alternate reality in the Indian sub-continent...the play is also one of the few with a strong female protagonist who isn’t defined by her role alone to other male members. She is a mother no doubt, but she is also a businesswoman who is making the most of a bad situation. Who better than a powerhouse performer like Arundhati Nag to essay Mother Courage!”
 
 
