Around 9 am on January 25, Sushila Kugaji got an unusual call from her son, Major  , who was stationed in  , in Kashmir’s Ganderbal district. Her son told Sushila that he has been given a second chance at life. “At first, I didn’t understand what he meant by that. He then told me about the avalanche that had taken the life of many other soldiers, including Major  , who was his friend. He asked me to pray to Goddess Durga and to inform his wife and sister that he was safe,” says Sushila.

 As news of five soldiers who were found trapped under snow in the   sector having succumbed to injuries on Monday made news, Major Kugaji’s parents are relieved that their son was able to come out alive from under 15 feet of snow on January 25. 
 
 
  
 Telling us more about how he survived, his father, Anant Kugaji, says, “No one was with him at his camp in Sonamarg when the avalanche hit it. He was trapped under 15 feet of snow for around three hours, between 6 am and 9 am. He conserved oxygen by doing pranayama. This also gave him the willpower to survive. He dug his way out of the snow with a key that he had with him. When he heard rescue operators at a distance, he yelled for around half an hour to get their attention; it was after that that he was brought out of the snow. The first thing that he did after being rescued was speak to his mother,” says Anant.
 
 
  
 
 
 Major Kugaji joined the   in June 2007 has been stationed in Jammu and Kashmir for eight years. He was deployed in   for only a year in between. An avid environmentalist, he has actively participated in 
 conservation work in the   forest near Belagavi.
 
 
 
 Not just Major Kugaji, but many members of his family are, or have served in the Army. His father, Anant Kugaji, was an army man for 28 years, during which time he fought in the 1971 Indo-Pak war. His sister, Pankaja, is a Major and is stationed in Jaisalmer, Rajasthan (she serves in the electronic and mechanical engineering section). Pankaja’s husband also served in the Army for five years. 
 
 — Krishna Kamble
 
