KOLKATA: The   from a   who joined Trinamool eight days after playing the host to BJP president Amit Shah occupied the centre stage in Bengal   on Thursday sparking fireworks between Trinamool and BJP.

 BJP office bearers — from Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad to the party’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya — took up the issue like never before and torpedoed the   Banerjee government for trying to “squeeze the opposition out of the federal democratic framework.” Mamata, on the other hand, broke her silence at a public meeting in Malda pointing fingers at the BJP’s bid to denigrate Bengal.
 
 Amid high-voltage blitzkrieg scripted to bring about a change in the state’s political polarisation, the Mahali couple — Raju and Geeta — tiptoed into their South Kotiajot village hut during noontime and stayed there for a couple of hours only to be escorted out of home by Trinamool men before sunset. Political rivals won’t leave them in peace because their “switchover” has exposed some bitter truths in the state’s political narrative.
 
 “We have no doubt that the Mahali family joined Trinamool under duress. Geeta’s statement was dictated by Trinamool leaders. This could happen because the administration here is not guided by the Constitution. Here Mamata Banerjee and her corrupt gang of ministers — Alibaba aur chalish chor — runs the writ. Violence against women in this state is the highest in the country. It’s a shame for a state that has a lady CM,” said Vijayvargiya while addressing a dharna at College Square. He also walked the extra mile to hit the CM where it hurts her the most. He brought direct corruption charges against Mamata’s nephew and Trinamool MP Abhishek Banerjee.
 
 The CM said: “A person who once held the post of Indore mayor and was removed after he got embroiled in a controversy had announced in a public meeting that Sudip Bandyopadhyay and Tapas Pal will go to jail. Is he the CBI director? Did the PM want him to say so? Our party colleagues Subhendu Adhikari, Firhad Hakim and Mukul Roy come from well-to-do families. They do not need to take one lakh rupees for sustenance. If they (CBI) send one of our party colleagues to jail, the people of Bengal will send lakhs of BJP activists to jail.” 
 
 “Morphed pictures are posted in social media to defame Bengal. I ask you if someone has prevented you from holding Saraswati puja. This is false. They once said Dakshineswar temple has stopped arati. I checked with the temple authorities. They said aratis happen every day. What is this? The BJP is scared of us,” she said.
 
 (With inputs from Subhro Maitra in Malda)
 
 
