KOLKATA: The detective department has busted a pan-India gang that was possibly headquartered in Kolkata and preyed on thousands of gullible online shoppers. In what could be this year’s biggest coordinated move, the anti-fraud section nabbed 16 men from Kaikhali, Baguiati and Kestopur in six hours from Monday midnight.

 The modus operandi of the gang has left the cops surprised. According to joint CP (crime)  , the gang first advertised in the newspapers across south and east India, asking for young men to join an online portal. They were asked to be fluent and “persuasive” with their mother tongue. Accordingly, once the recruitment got over, the gang leaders provided them voluminous data of customer behaviour from online shopping portal Naaptol.
 
 “We are not sure how they procured this data. None of the accused arrested so far has claimed of any link with the company. Even its Kolkata office — located in the   area — is not operational anymore. We are told that they hacked into certain secured wi-fi networks and company-protected data and gathered the customer profiles. We still need to ascertain this,” said a senior police officer.
 
 Customers were then given a call. They were told they have won major jackpots and would be paid lakhs. To convince the customers, they would even email them a scanned cheque on behalf of Naaptol, complete with the RBI seal. Once the customer would be convinced, they would ask them for a processing fee — anywhere between Rs 10,000 or Rs 2 lakh — to an account and receive the “prize.”
 
 The accused only used a few accounts of their own while cheating the customers. Most of the accounts provided to customers would be “loaned” ones, from where the money would again be transferred to the accused’s accounts through RTGS. The cops suspect a lot of Jan Dhan accounts were used to park the money received through the scam initially.
 
 The probe, say cops, had begun on January 30 when the vice-president of Naaptol, Arun Kumar Singh, lodged a complaint with Lalbazar. This was after hundreds of customers accused the company of “unethical” practices and a subsequent internal inquiry by the company had identified areas around Kolkata as the place from where the   was taking place.
 
 Among the 16 arrested, five are from Bengal. They have been identified as Gaurav Singh, Mayank Didwania, Sourav Mishra, Vishal Jaiswal and Dipak Kumar Sahu.
 
 
