PANCHKULA: In a shocking incident, the son and family members of   brutally murdered a 26-year-old youth after kidnapping him from his house in   of Mansa Devi Complex here on Monday night.

 The accused, identified as Manmeet Warraich aka Monti, his driver Chhaba, his farther Amrik Singh and others not only murdered Varinder Singh, but also dragged him to a distance and allegedly disfigured the body with a vehicle before abandoning it on a road stretch near Walker’s Paradise on Saketeri-Sukhna Lake road.
 
 According to information, victim Varinder was the case of mistaken identity as Monti and his men wanted to settle score with his first cousin identified as Avtar Singh. Varinder lives in his maternal uncle’s house. Eight months ago, Avtar had an altercation with Monty over some issue while playing a cricket match.
 
 "The issue was temporarily settled, but Avtar and I were getting threats from Monty as he is already involved in other criminal cases. They had been nursing the grudge against us. His grandfather Inderjeet Singh Warrach had also threatened us during the day that they would do something," said the victim’s first cousin, Hardeep Singh. Hardeep is also a complainant in the case registered at Mansa Devi Complex (MDC) police station.
 
 According to information, the incident occurred at around 8pm when Monty along with others, who include his father Amrik and some persons from Bhainsa Tibba village and Mohali, knocked at the residence of Varinder’s house.
 
 Varinder lives in Hardeep's house and all the family members were relaxing in their house. All the family members were caught unaware as Monty and others attacked Varinder with sharp-edged weapons as he opened the door as he raised alarm. The accused bundled him in their vehicle and moved towards Sukhna Lake route.
 
 "They had also opened fire in the air twice before leaving our house with Varident, Within few minutes, we had come to know that Varinder was lying unconscious on the road. We rushed him to PGI Chandigarh where he was declared dead," said Hardeep.
 
 Hardeep alleged that beside stab injuries, the accused allegedly tried to disfigure his body and face by crushing it under the vehicle.
 
 Police said that they are verifying the allegations about crushing the body. "There are blood stains as well tyre marks on the spot. Crime experts are on the job to match the samples collected from the spot along with other samples. Investigations are on," said an inspector.
 
 On Tuesday, a high drama prevailed as alleging inaction by police, residents of Saketeri village blocked the Chandigarh-Mansa Devi Road near railway underbridge. Villagers accused the cops of shielding Warrachs due to their political clout in the district. Villagers had blocked the road at 8am and were sitting on the road by the filing of the report. 
 
  
  
 
 
 Manmeet Warraich is the son of Kuljeet Warraich who happened to be scion of erstwhile Manimajra riyasat. A four-time councillor from Indian National Lok Dal (INLD), Kuljeet Warraich has also been the senior vice-president of estwhile Panchkula Municipal Council for 10 years.
 
 DCP Anil Dhawan who had visited the spot on Monday night as well rushed to the dharna spot to pacify the villagers. Dhawan said that various teams have been formed to conduct the raids to arrest all those involved in the incident. He denied the allegations as if there was any kind of delay in the investigations.
 
