GUWAHATI: Flash floods triggered by heavy rains over   have hit more 70,000 population and inundated 64 villages in South Salmara and Goalpara districts, two districts in western Assam bordering the neighbouring state.

 Apart from these two border districts, floods have also resumed in Lakhimpur, Hojai and   districts — where the combined affected population is more than 8,000.
 
 According to the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), over 41,000 people have been affected in Goalpara district and another 29,000 have been hit in South Salmara district. Nearly 3,000 have been affected in Lakhimpur district in the easternmost part of the state, 1,455 in Hojai and 3,343 in Karbi Anglong in  .
 
 In Goalpara district, the worst hit is Balijana revenue circle, where 23,000 people have been hit. The other two affected circles in the district are Matia and Lakhipur. In South Salmara district, the effect has been most severe in  , which is bound by Bangladesh on the south across the  .
 
 Civic authorities have set up 16 relief camps for the affected people in Goalpara district, where 8,694 persons have taken shelter after being displaced from their homes. Similarly, 1,300 people have taken shelter in two relief camps in Karbi Anglong district.
 
 There have been no reports of any human casualty from any affected place so far. However, the flash floods have damaged crop area of nearly 300 hectare in the two border districts besides affecting more than 10,000 small and big animals along with 13,000 poultry in South Salmara district and more than 4,000 animals in Goalpara district.
 
 Two bridges in Lakhipur and Matia revenue circles in Goalpara district have also been damaged, the ASDMA stated. Chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal has asked the deputy commissioners of the flood-affected districts to intensify the relief and rescue operations and to ensure adequate relief material for the marooned people and ensure availability of all required items in flood relief camps, the CM’s office said. The CM has also directed the ASDMA to maintain close coordination with district administrations and extend all support to tide over the situation.
 
