THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The government's decision to withdraw the email snooping case has raised questions over legality of such decisions as it goes against the Supreme Court directive for governments while using its discretionary powers in withdrawing cases.

 An SC bench consisting of justices K G Balakrishnan and B N Srikrishna had in Rahul Agarwal versus   and another case in 2005, had ruled: “The withdrawal of prosecution can be allowed only in the interest of justice“. In its directive to the high court, the Supreme Court said that even if the government directs the public prosecutor to withdraw the prosecution and an application is filed to that effect, the court must consider all relevant circumstances and find out whether the withdrawal of prosecution would advance the cause of justice. It said the withdrawal of prosecution can be justified only if the case is likely to end in an acquittal and the continuance of the case only causes severe harassment to the ac cused or if the withdrawal of prosecution is likely to bury the dispute and bring about harmony between the parties and it would be in the best in terest of justice.
 
 According to police department sources, subsequent governments have been using the powers under Section 321 of the criminal procedure code to withdraw cases, but 90% of such cases are largely political in nature. “The email snooping case has no political angle to it. It is a case that has a national interest angle to it. It had hampered the functioning of internal security division of the state government and is linked with communal divisive agenda,“ a top official said.
 
 The case pertains to leaking of several email addresses that the intelligence department had handed over to hitech cell of the police for verification, which was published in a vernacular publication. One of those involved was a sub-inspector of police Biju Salim, who was removed from the service. The case is currently in CJM court, Thiruvananthapuram. Last month, additional chief secretary   had asked the government pleader to inform the court that the government has no objection in dropping further proceedings in the case.
 
 “The Section 321was incorporated in the CrPC in the assumption that governments will use them judiciously. Using the Section for withdrawing cases involving security , communal issues and anti-corruption is totally unjustified,“ former DGP K J Joseph said.
 
 The previous UDF government had also withdrawn a case, which pertained to the murder attempt on former CI, Museum, Mohanan Nair, who was severely injured in a student clash at   involving RSS-ABVP activists.
 
 Meanwhile, the RSS and the   have come strongly against the government's decision to withdraw the case. BJP state spokesperson M S Kumar said that the government's blind minority appeasement has been bared with the decision to withdraw the e-mail snooping case that has a terrorism angle to it. On the other hand, the government was quick to slap a case on former DGP T P Senkumar for revealing a fact that has been disclosed in census, he said.
 
