By: Rajeev KR

 KOZHIKODE: Forest department authorities feel that there could be a `mating season' link to the recent spike in tigers straying into human habitat in  .
 
 November to February period is the main mating season for tigers here, though the big cats are polyestrous animals, which can breed at any time.
 
 Wayanad witnessed four tiger straying incidents this month, including the one at   where forest authorities are trying to capture the big cat that spread panic after killing cattle in the area.
 
 Wildlife veterinary ex perts said that territorial fights for establishing or maintaining home ranges by male animals increase in the run-up to the mating season and frequent tiger sighting could be linked to it.
 
 “We have observed that territorial fights for establishing and maintaining home range or exclusive territory intensify during mating season as part of the competition for access to females. A resident male tiger could be displaced and pushed out by a dispersing young male seeking access to females. Normally , big cats that are pushed out to the fringe areas are either the ones which are injured in territorial fights or others that are old or weak,“ said wildlife veterinary surgeon Dr  .
 
 Normally , male tigers establish territories that encompass territories of female tigers and try to expand their home ranges into these areas as part of mate choice. Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary (WWS) warden NT   said straying incidents normally increase from November to February at the sanctuary . Experts added that given the high density and reproductive potential of tiger populations in   area, a surplus of either sub-adult dispersers or evicted older tigers were likely to spill over into the wider landscape, including Wayanad.WWS warden said that the department was maintaining high alert at Cheeral and surrounding areas where a tiger had strayed on September 12.
 
 “We think that the tiger had moved back to the forests. The last sighting of the tiger outside the forest boundary was on September 20. We are however conducting regular patrolling in the area and maintaining high vigil,“ Sajan said.
 
