PATNA: Patna has been ranked 11th in the Annual Survey of India’s City-Systems (ASICS) for 2016, conducted by  , a non-profit organization based in Bengaluru, and its sister concern Jana Urban Space Foundation. Thiruvananthapuram has been adjudged the country’s best city, again.

 The survey covered 21 cities in the country. The overall ranking was determined on four basic parameters – urban planning and design, urban capacities and resources, empowered and legitimate political representation and transparency, accountability and participation.
 
 Sharing the report with TOI here on Saturday,   (PMC) commissioner   said Thiruvananthapuram scored 4.4 on a scale of 10, Pune 4.2 and Patna managed to score 3.4. The survey scores Indian cities between 2.1 and 4.4 on 10.
 
 In the first parameter, urban planning and design, Patna secured 16th position. It was based on four questions, including whether the city has a spatial planning at the ward level and a single-window clearance process for development projects in conformity with plans. 
 
 The survey revealed that most of the Indian cities, including Patna, lacked institutional resources as well as mechanism to deter plan violations, which led to haphazard growth of most of the cities. For instance, Bangalore, which was placed at the second position in implementing effective policies for plan violations, had fared poorly in a survey conducted by   in 2014, when only three of the 400 buildings conformed to all the rules. 
 
 In the second parameter, urban capacities and resources, which covered investment of funds in public infrastructure, adequate number of skilled human resources and optimum use of information technology, Patna managed to enter the top 10 by securing ninth position. Mumbai topped the list in this category. 
 
 In the third parameter, which was based on empowered and legitimate political representation, two questions were asked – whether the city leaders had adequate powers and if the city was truly democratic. Patna ranked 10th in this category. In the fourth parameter – transparency, accountability and participation – Patna ranked 13th. However, Patna was at 18th position in addressing citizens’ complaints. 
 
