The   couldn’t have found a more suitable place to stage its latest offering 1857:   than the  . The palace had everything playwright and director   and his crew could have asked for. From its architectural grandeur and antiquity that reflected the flavour of the Nizam’s era, it was a dream setting for the second staging of the historical drama in Hyderabad as the plot too is set in the same epoch. Pulling a rather untouched leaf out from Deccan’s in particular, and India’s in general, history books, 1857: Turrebaz Khan, as the name denotes, sketches the last hour in the life of the Indian British soldier-turned-freedom fighter just before being shot dead at a forest near Hyderabad. The script primarily recreates dialogues imaginarily exchanged between Khan and his captor Talukdar Qurban Ali.
Schedule to commence at 7 pm on Sunday, we reached the venue right on time. However, seeing the stage already lit with a man tied to a chair sitting oblivious of his surroundings, we thought we were late. But Baig later explained, “It was a conscious tactic to attract the audience.”
 The play actually began when all the chairs before the podium were occupied.
 As a peacock screamed somewhere at a distance, the stage echoed with sounds of a duffli followed by other drums. The use of these different percussion instruments to introduce the characters was a well-thought concept for which Baig and his crew deserves acknowledgment. The sound of each instrument representing a particular character reflected the circumstances in their lives. While the duffli represented the voice of marginalised women of the era, portrayed by a character essayed by Baig’s wife Noor, a village drum and a hand-held marching bass drum reflected the power balance between Khan’s patriotism and British Raj’s military might.
 The script of the hour-long play touched basic topics, which had dominated the first wave of freedom struggle era, in the conversations between patriot Khan and Talukdar. Baig, donning the protagonist’s character, single-handedly grabbed the play by its arm and drove it home.
 
