NEW DELHI: Speaker   has in response outlined his   with   Anil Baijal’s observation that the assembly’s department-related standing committees ( ) enjoy extra-jurisdictional powers. He has asked Baijal to revisit the matter “with the help of true constitutional experts”.

 Goel is learnt to have told the LG that to discharge its primary functions of making laws and holding the executive to account, the Constitution has empowered the Legislative   vide Section 33 (1) of the GNCTD Act of 1991 to frame its own rules.
 
 TOI had reported on Thursday that the LG had written to home secretary Rajiv Mehrishi accusing the DRSCs of misusing their powers to “control and pressurise (sic)” officers. He had said the committees had powers which even the Lok Sabha DRSCs did not enjoy. 
 
 The LG informed Mehrishi that he had sent a “message” to the assembly on this matter.
 
 In his September 20 response to the LG, the speaker said the message sent by the former was based on the flawed premise that the rules of the legislature of Delhi have to be identical to those of the Lok Sabha. He is learnt to have said the rules of no two legislative bodies are identical, not even those of the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha, and in light of the Constitution having guaranteed independence to each House to frame its own rules of procedure, “there is no scope for any arm-twisting of any legislature as far as framing of rules is concerned”.
 
 The letter to the LG says that all legislatures in India enjoy the power to frame rules as per requirements, and that the presumption that the assembly of the NCT of Delhi has exceeded its powers just because the rules are not identical to the rules of the Lok Sabha is fundamentally wrong.
 
 Reacting to the accusation that the committees were being used to harass officials, the speaker has raised the issue of the LG having marked this “confidential message” to the chief secretary and secretary (law), something which the speaker claimed the LG had never done. He said he would agree with MLAs if they took this act to be an exercise in “abetting errant officers who want to escape legislative oversight”.
 
 
