Bhopal: A day after the Madrasa Board announced the introduction of a syllabus on patriotism, the Co-ordination Committee for Indian Muslims (CCIM) Madhya Pradesh unit on Saturday strongly opposed the move of exposing “only” madrasa students to patriotism.

 Taking cognizance of the TOI report published on Saturday titled ‘Madarsas to teach patriotism’, a delegation of CCIM led by secretary Masood Ahmed Khan met the chairperson of Madhya Pradesh Madrasa Board Syed Imauddin and raised their objection against the proposal sent to the government of India for its approval.
 
 The Muslim leaders dubbed the move as highly discriminatory and said it should never be introduced in the state. In the meeting, the CCIM members said that “the move could be seen as a discriminatory approach toward Muslims in the state.”
 
 “If there is anything like teaching patriotism to students, then it should be meant for all students and mainstream schools. Why only single out madrasas?” the CCIM questioned, adding “instilling a sense of loyalty towards the country should then be taught to students throughout the country.”
 
 The Madhya Pradesh government on Friday said a new syllabus was being prepared by the Madrasa Board so that Muslim students could be taught lessons in loyalty towards the country.
 
 “Why only madrasa students have been chosen to get lessons on patriotism? Does it mean that they are not loyal to their country by any chance? It clearly indicates that the government doubts the credibility of madrasa students, which is extremely unfair,” the CCIM delegation asked the Madrasa Board chairman.
 
 The Muslim body’s decision to oppose the government’s move was supported by Jamat-e- Islami Hind, Jamiat-ul-Ulama-e-Hind, All India Muslim Law Board, All India Milli Council, All India Majils Tameer-e-Millat, Indian Union Muslim League, SDPI, Muslim Majlis Mashawrat, Jamiat ahl-e-Hadees, MP Muslim Vikas Parishad and others.
 
 The new syllabus, if approved by government of India would also have lessons on life stories of prominent leaders, including the Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, APJ Abdul Kalam, Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya and others.
 
 Official sources said that the on-going Narmada river conservation programme “Namami Devi Narmade” would also be a part of the new syllabus.
 
 Meanwhile, the CCIM also appealed to other Ulemas to raise objections to such ideas, which they alleged are formed to malign the image of Muslims.
 
 
