GURUGRAM: A   was set up to bait  , who was murdered on March 15 in front of ITM University. Cops said the trap was laid by Vikas Dalal, a member of the  , whose Himachali girlfriend Tikum befriended Mann on social media, and asked Mann to come to Gurgaon from Alipur in Delhi for her “birthday”.

 The motive behind the murder of Mann, himself a known criminal, was personal rivalry with Dalal. One of the suspects, Anshul, who was arrested sometime later by Himachal Police, revealed he was ordered to take the shot on Mann by Dalal, who is close to the Nandu Sangwan gang, who are arch rivals of the Mahal gang, whose kingpin Manjeet Mahal is currently lodged in Gurgaon’s Bhondsi jail.
 
 Vikrant’s murder was the Mahal gang’s revenge for his alleged involvement in the killing of Manjeet’s father Sri Kishan, in Mitraon village on January 29 this year. Inspector Sajjan Singh of crime unit 3, who investigated the matter, believes that both murders — of Mann and Vikrant — could be part of a fresh spate of inter-gang wars, which could have escalated after the death of Sri Kishan Mahal.
 
 Interestingly, during interrogation, Anshul has revealed Gurgaon was chosen to carry out the murders because of the jurisdiction. He said the Mahal gang had plans for more murders, as part of their campaign of revenge, and that Mahal gang members preferred to drop bodies in Gurgaon, so that if caught, they could be lodged in Bhondsi jail, where their gang leader is lodged, as opposed to Tihar jail, where most of the members of rival gangs, including Nandu Sangwan gang members Jyoti and Kapil Sangwan, are lodged.
 
  Gurgaon DCP (crime) Sumit Kuhar lent creedence to the gang-war angle, when he linked several other criminal cases to the accused. He said, in February, one of them had shot dead a Dinesh alias Mangu in Delhi. Then in March, Anshul and others had killed a Naresh Fauji at Chawla bus stand near Najafgarh in Delhi. On April 8, they opened fire on a police team in Sunder Nagar area in Himachal Pradesh, where Anshul was arrested while Vikas and others managed to flee.
 
