NEW DELHI: India may be the world’s fastest growing aviation market but the country’s skies are getting increasingly unsafe as the air traffic grows.

 Last year (January-December, 2016) saw as many as 427 pilots and cabin crew of Indian carriers facing regulatory action for various safety violations like turning up drunk to fly or for being involved in accidents. This number was 54% higher than the regulatory action taken against 275 cockpit and cabin crew members in 2015.
 
 The figure in 2014 was 391 due to extra surveillance on private planes used by political leaders for campaigning during general elections held that year.
 
 “We have started a new system for doing safety checks based on risk assessment that led to this surge in detection of safety violations. Generally also we have heightened surveillance that led to a higher number last year. This included cases of crew flying more than the permitted number of hours,” said a senior Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) official.
 
 The regulatory actions are categorised as suspensions, off rostering (taken off flying duty) and warnings. These are decided by DGCA’s safety division that is headed by joint DG Lalit Gupta.
 
 Last year’s safety drive saw the regulator directing registering first information reports against two pilots (one each of   and Jet) and three cabin crew members (two of AI and one of Jet) who were found tipsy after operating international routes in post-flight breath analyser (BA) tests.
 
 “Budget carriers   and GoAir had wet leased aircraft (where planes are taken on rent along with the operating crew of pilots and air hostesses). Two foreign pilots of these planes were found tipsy in pre-flight BA tests. We immediately asked the airlines to send those pilots back to their home countries, meaning that they should not continue flying here. We also wrote to the aviation regulators of their home countries,” said the official.
 
 In 2016, the 427 enforcement actions included as many as 272 pilots and cabin crew being suspended. “Crew is suspended for reasons like failing BA tests. The maximum suspension is for eight weeks as airline crew is a precious resource and cannot be kept on ground for long. They are given corrective training and then fly again,” said the official.
 
 The regulator has warned airlines not to compromise on any safety aspect and that it will launch checks this year, too.
 
 
 
 
  116, 78, 84
 
 
  101, 26, 57
 
 
  66, 62, 117
 
 
  55, 46, 35
 
 
 6, 24, 18
 
 
 32, 24, 77
 
 (  includes parent airline, AI Express and Alliance Air. 2014 charter operator figure high due to heightened surveillance for general elections held that year. Source: DGCA)
 
 
