NEW DELHI: Prime Minister   criticised opposition parties for seeking to block passage of the Bill designed to confer constitutional status on National Commission for Backward Classes (NCBC), saying their stand was at odds with the non-partisan pitch for strengthening the body. Modi, who was felicitated by BJP’s   MPs on Wednesday for fulfilling the longpending demand, termed the stand as proof of “politics of negativity” and regretted what he called an attempt to hurt the rights of OBCs.

 “This has been an old demand which was backed by the Forum of OBC MPs. OBC MPs of all parties would in their individual capacities meet me to seek constitutional status for National Commission for Backward Classes. Yet, while   cleared the Bill unanimously, Rajya Sabha chose to stall it,” the PM told his OBC colleagues who feted him in the Parliament complex.
 
 The Bill seeking to expand the jurisdiction of the backward classes body was sent to the select committee on the insistence of opposition MPs on Tuesday. The select committee, headed by BJP’s Bhupendra Yadav, is to submit its report not later than the last day of the first week of the monsoon session of Parliament which is likely to begin in July.   said constitutional status for NCBC will help it create better opportunities for “other backward classes”, adding that the government would ensure that the concerns raised by the body were addressed by ministries. Modi appealed to MPs to spread awareness about the soon-to-be expanded remit of the backward classes body so that people could benefit. “This is your moral as well as constitutional obligation,” he said, adding that helping the poor could be the most satisfying of all endeavours. “The backward sections are a self-respecting lot and remain grateful to those who help them even in small ways,” he said.
 
 Speaking on the occasion, veteran OBC leader Hukumdeo Narayan Yadav said he had agitated for constitutional status for NCBC since 1977. “Our objective could be realised only because of Modi’s powerful leadership,” the senior BJP MP said.
 
 The PM also sought to link OBC welfare to his government’s effort to promote digitisation of the economy through the use of Bhim app which is named after B R Ambedkar. Modi, himself a member of the OBC community, said digitisation would help OBCs by ending their dependence on money lenders.
 
 Those who thanked the PM for the government’s initiative included Union ministers Ananth Kumar, Thaavar Chand Gehlot, Uma Bharati, Bangaru Dattatreya, P P Chaudhary, Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti, member of the OBC Parliamentary Forum Ganesh Singh, BJP MPs Prahlad Patel, C R Chaudhary and P Radhakrishna.
 
