What made you opt for the revenue portfolio?

 I was clear that I wanted something challenging. The portfolio related to the issues of common man…where I could be an instrument to resolve some important issues. I wanted one (portfolio) with which I could try to change the face of Goa and, at the same time, help the common man to get his work done. The revenue ministry touches the common man. Everyone relates to it. Having been a member in the opposition benches, I understood the problems faced by the common man. Now, an opportunity has come my way to serve the people better.
 
 Like Vijai Sardesai, you, too, were elected on an anti-BJP plank. You created history as an independent because you were a strong anti-BJP face in the state and you had the backing of the Congress in the Porvorim constituency. Could you tell us what made you join hands with BJP to form the government?
 
 Goa needed stability and development. I waited till 4.30pm on March 12 and still there was no hope of the Congress Legislative Party (CLP) electing its leader. What we noticed was Congress’s indecisiveness over electing its leader, infighting and fragmentation. And what I’d said then is happening now (refers to Congress reduced to 16 from 17). Remember, I haven’t joined BJP. 
 
 It was indeed a tough decision to align with a group that has a different ideology. I had two options; one, to continue sitting in the opposition and the other, to be in the ruling dispensation and serve the people. I discussed with several important persons from my constituency besides my core group, and they felt I should take up a new responsibilityone that will help the constituency and the people of Goa.
 
 What will your priority as state revenue minister be?
 
 To put e-governance in place by utilizing information technology and to take governance to the people’s doorstep. The Time Bound Delivery of Services Act has not been properly implemented. I will get it done. It is a citizen-centric law. I will ensure that residence certificates, caste certificates, conversion sanads, documents pertaining to land partition, etc are delivered in a time-bound manner.
 
 The Tenancy Act, which angered tenants, will have to be rectified. 
 
 The comunidade system falls under the revenue ministry and every government talks of preserving the age-old institution. Your comment.
 
 Every comunidade has its own issues. I will ensure that illegalities are done away with. We want to preserve the institution. Each comunidade must take up the issues concerning them. Many a times, they are silent spectators, which is detrimental to their own interests. More componentes must stand up against illegalities. Even the auction and maintenance of sluice gates need to be streamlined.
 
 Could you tell us your plans for Porvorim constituency?
 
 A lot of work has to be done. Projects such as Porvorim market complex, Socorro multiplex sports complex, underground cabling, and the second phase of the sewerage network had slowed down because I was taking up issues in the opposition benches. Now, we’ll expedite these projects and initiate more. We need to handle issues like water supply, which is still a matter of concern in some areas. I want sustainable and inclusive development.
 
 We need a consultant to draw up a plan for the constituency, say for the next 25 years, so that there is planned development without any harm to the residents. We can make Porvorim a model constituency in Goa. The CM has initiated the process for the appointment of a consultant.
 
 Don’t you think the Porvorim plateau needs a municipality to take care of its civic issues? Urban development minister Francis D’Souza has also said that Porvorim could ask for a municipal council as it is categorized as a census town.
 
 The plateau is a mix of urban and rural - Rurban. We can’t have a municipality as the people living there will be more comfortable in a panchayat set-up. What we need are funds for development. Hence I had asked for urban status as this would bring in funds for development and schemes. 
 
 The Goa Panchayati Raj Act also needs to be revisited. The section about types of panchayats needs to be reviewed. Each panchayat should be better equipped to take care of people’s issues.
 
 In 2003, Manohar Parrikar had proposed to put Porvorim along with Penha da Franca, St Cruz and Bambolim under the purview of the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP). It was met with stiff opposition and had to be reversed.
 
 You can’t put Porvorim in Panaji. Porvorim has its own identity. Instead, you should make Porvorim the state capital. Where is the seat of power? In Porvorim. Goa must be the only state to house the secretariat in an area that is not the capital.
 
 Your constituents say that in the last five years, the profile of the villages constituting the constituency is fast changing. Several buildings are coming up. When your government’s focus is on Goenkarponn, how do you intend to preserve the villages’ character?
 
 As an independent MLA, I have always been with the people. But the issue here is of construction and of land. The issue begins with local residents selling the land. 
 
 You may be surprised that some people who are in activism have made applications for change of zone to settlement. Some even demand that more areas be brought under private forest but they want their own lands to be converted (into settlement). How can you point fingers at someone when you are involved in double standards or even in land dealings, brokerage, etc?
 
 Can we ask land owners not to sell their land? No, it’s their prerogative. If they don’t sell land, buildings will not come up. It is not just happening in my constituency but in several parts of the state. What was Ashvem and Mandrem a decade ago? 
 
 Secondly, certain areas in my constituency fall under the Panaji outline development plan (ODP).
 
 Goem, Goenkar and Goenkarponn is just one aspect. We need to look at issues such as preserving our cultural ethos, language, identity, etc. For instance, I had brought a resolution proposing that not more than ten flats be allowed in a building in the villages. 
 
 Don’t you think that the issue of villages turning into concrete jungles can be rectified while correcting the Regional Plan 2021 for Bardez?
 
 Could be. But how will you do it? I had put a question in the assembly to get more details about the ODP. There were no details of the line of demarcation for the ODP in the village. I am for redevelopment of property on the plateau. 
 
 For example, the police quarters are in a bad shape. Can’t we redevelop the building and provide better amenities for the police? This is reflected in the CM’s budget speech. 
 
 You had raised the issue of the beach-cleaning scam in a big way and had even named several persons, including the then minister for tourism and bureaucrats in the last BJP regime. Will you be able to take the matter to its logical conclusion now that it’s a BJP-led government yet again?
 
 Yes, why not? The matter is before Lokayukta and I will take it to its logical conclusion. It was a scam and I have full confidence that the Lokayukta will give justice. All those who will be held guilty by the Lokayukta will have to be booked. 
 
 There were many other issues we’d taken up when we were in the opposition.
 
 Yes, what about offshore casinos which you opposed all through? 
 
 I am firm about my previous stance on the casinos. My main demand was that offshore casinos be shifted and I will keep insisting on this. We have discussed it with the CM. He has said we’ll come out with a policy within three to six months and has assured that they will be shifted.
 
 What about the sixth casino in River Mandovi?
 
 Yes. That, too, has to be shifted.
 
 But the BJP government had supported them in the past, just as the Congress had done in the previous regime.
 
 The CM is clear in his mind. A coalition government will be more accountable. He has realized what had gone wrong and rectifications will be made. He is like what he was in 2002. He used to take prompt decisions that time and has begun doing the same now.
 
  The concerns of the people will be addressed.
 
 
