KOLKATA: The mother of a baby, whose father had lodged a complaint of   against two   accusing them of not declaring her brain dead, said on Tuesday she was happy with the   that saved her  .

 On August 27, the one-year-old had choked on semi-solid food that interrupted oxygen supply to her brain for over 45 minutes. It damaged her brain functioning and she lapsed into  .
 
 TOI had reported on March 15 that the baby’s father, a doctor himself, lodged a police complaint against two private hospitals in south Kolkata, accusing them of medical negligence that led his daughter to be in a persistent vegetative state. He further questioned what prevented the hospitals from declaring her brain-dead.
 
 The mother, a former critical care expert with a private hospital, however, said on Tuesday: “I am indebted to the doctors of those hospital for saving my daughter. Her brain had no oxygen supply for over 45 minutes and she could die. I am happy that she is alive.”
 
 “I will go to Purba Jadavpur police station tomorrow (Wednesday) and will request the cops not to pursue any case against the doctors or the hospitals,” she added.
 
 The 31-year-old mother is refusing to give up the fight for her little daughter and vows to bring up her baby on ventilation support even though her husband wants otherwise.
 
 “I know the medical condition of my daughter and I know that she may not get better even in several years. But I know she is alive and her condition has improved a lot over the past four months. She can now move her legs, her eyes get dilated, her cheeks turn red when she is angry, she can hold her breath when she gets afraid, she can hold my finger when placed between her palms and she can pass her urine and stool normally without the help of a catheter,” she said.
 
 “I am ready to allow my daughter grow in this state. I will fund her medicines and medical equipment costing close to Rs 1.5 lakh per month, till the day my parents and I can sustain. But I am waiting for a miracle,” she said, wiping tears with her dupatta.
 
 
