PANCHKULA:   Nitin Gadkari on Monday claimed that the   was constructing 23km of   every day against an average of barely 2km during the  

 After laying the foundation stone of the national highway connecting Pinjore in Haryana with Baddi in Himachal Pradesh, Gadkari gave details of the projects worth Rs 50,000 crore going on in Haryana. “The government is making efforts to further increase the pace of road construction to 40km per day from the current 23km by March 2018,” he said, while addressing the gathering at Sukhomajri village of Panchkula district.
 
 An elevated flyover on the National Highway-2 (Delhi-Agra) from Agra Chowk to Delhi Chowk in Palwal town, Sohna bypass on NH-71B, eastern bypass for Karnal, three underpasses on NH-10 at Bahadurgarh-Baldi road, Balour Mod and Rohtak Chowk, and two underpasses on NH-71 (Dujana and Silani chowk) on the Panchkula-Yamunanagar highway were some of the projects listed by the Union minister.
 
 Gadkari also declared the Khangesra-Kala Amb stretch as a national highway and said that Yamunanagar to Ponta Sahib road will be widened to four lanes. He urged the state government to help in land acquisition for the Delhi-Yamunanagar Expressway, which would link Haryana, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh.
 
 Gadkari said 65% work on the Eastern Peripheral Expressway, which was being constructed at a cost of Rs 12,000 crore, had already been completed. It would be dedicated to the people by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 15.
 
 Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar said prior to October 2014, there were about 1,470 km of national highways in the state which had increased to 2,480 km this year. After completion of the ongoing works on recent announcements, the figure would reach 3,200 km, he said.
 
 The CM also lauded the cooperation extended by the Union government in enhancing the road and rail infrastructure in Haryana. “The government has completed construction of 24 bridges and work is in progress on 21 others,” said Khattar.
 
 Special for state
 
 Union minister   asked Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar to purchase water buses so that the services could be started between Palla and Wazirabad. He said that he would like to inaugurate this bus service within next three months. Gadkari said that this would not only save the time but also precious fuel.
 
 “To boost tourism and generate employment opportunities and also to bringing down the pollution levels, the Union government will promote electric taxis in Haryana,” he added.
 
 
