Pune: From  , students will be able to change their college preference in every round of the first year junior college (Std XI) centralized admission process.

 Considering the loopholes in last year’s centralized admissions as well as the fact that the rounds stretched till almost October, the state education department has announced changes in the admission process. The rules would be applicable for Pune, Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Nagpur, Aurangabad, Nashik and   region. The admission process begins after the SSC (Std X) state board exam results are declared in June.
 
 The education department has said that in the first phase of the form-filling exercise, students will have to fill a form for only one faculty of their choice. Earlier, students could choose multiple faculties including Arts, Commerce, Science and Minimum Competency Vocational Course (MCVC) but now they will be allowed to choose any one of these. Nevertheless, they can change their choice of faculty in the second phase of the form-filling exercise.
 
 Another change is that students will be allowed to give only 10 colleges in their preference list as against 50 during the last year. The choice of college can be anywhere in the city limits. 
 
 Deputy secretary of the state education department   explained, “Students will have the freedom to change their preferences after each round. However, if they do not change their preferences, then those selected earlier would be considered for allotment. If a student gets admission to the first preferred college from the list, then s/he should pay the full fee and confirm the admission. If the student does not confirm the admission, his/her name would be restricted from the following rounds.”
 
 If a student gets an allotment to a preferred college other than the first preference, and if the allotment suits the student, s/he can pay up the full fee and confirm the admission. Once the admission is confirmed, the student would be restricted from following rounds. Even if the student does not confirm the admission here, s/he would be eligible for the next round.
 
 Kharat further said that colleges should fill seats in the quota admissions before the regular rounds begin. If any of the quota seats remain vacant, the colleges should surrender them for the regular rounds of admission. Students who take admission by paying full fees under the quota seats would be restricted from participating in the regular rounds.
 
 Meenakshi Raut, assistant director of education, Pune, said, “The announcement of the admission procedure has come well in time unlike last year, when most of the initial procedure had begun. We will now start with college registrations, preparation of booklets and distribution so as to be ready for the season and ensure that admissions would be smooth and on schedule this year.”
 
 
