BHOPAL: For the past couple of years,   has been mired in controversies. From students to  , MANIT has become a home of problems. With authorities keeping mum, the campus is fast losing its sheen. 

 Students and teachers said the campus would continue to suffer unless it has a permanent director. “For the past two years, MANIT’s director has been on an additional charge. In this situation, it is not possible to take strong decision to stem the rot,” said a senior teaching faculty on the condition of anonymity. Notably, the present director is also the director of IISER, Bhopal. 
 
 His predecessor NS Choudhary was the director of VIT, Nagpur. After the removal of Appu Kuttan as director of MANIT, the post has been given as an additional charge to higher authority of other institutes.
 
 In November 2016, unhappy over several issues, students had organised a protest rally on the campus demanding permanent director . MANIT’s student council had alleged that the campus was in a bad shape. 
 
 “There is no water, no electricity, no permanent director, shortage of permanent teachers and poor labs. This is the situation of MANIT,” students council member alleged. Students had also blamed it on absence of a permanent director for all ills plaguing one of the premier institutes of the country. “MANIT’s director is working as an additional charge. Registrar is not full-fledged. In such a situation, our campus cannot prosper,” a student said.
 
 Students alleged the authorities are interested in construction work only. “We have been demanding permanent teachers and MANIT has provided us contract teachers, who hardly bother about our academics. They have built big buildings, but there is no electricity and Internet,” said another student. 
 
 The condition of hostels in Madhya Pradesh’s only NIT is so pathetic that students were forced to file a complaint against the institution before the   last year. Even the district administration had to step in, and it held a meeting with the director   regarding the poor condition of hostels. 
 
 
