KOHIMA: The ongoing power struggle in Nagaland turned murkier on Saturday with the flight of 49 legislators, most of whom earlier favoured the ouster of chief minister TR Zeliang, to an Assam jungle sanctuary, hours before ruling Naga People’s Front (NPF) MP Neiphiu Rio, who is seen as a claimant to the CM’s post, arrived here from New Delhi.

 Forty-one of the lawmakers, who drove down to Kaziranga National Park and checked into two resorts, belong to the NPF. The others include one BJP and seven Independent MLAs. The BJP is an ally of the NPF.
 
 “Thirty-nine of the MLAs staying at Kaziranga had earlier wanted   (NPF president) as the CM in place of Zeliang,” NPF sources said. The Assembly has altogether 60 members.
 
 Speaking at an emergency meeting of the NPF central executive council here, Liezietsu said, “Some of our legislators have gone to Kaziranga. They are still NPF legislators and we are in touch with many of them.” He added, “A change in our favour will take place in a day or two.”
 
 Other speakers said the chief whip of the NPF Legislature Party is still with the party and the Kaziranga episode will fail like the 2015 coup by a majority of NPF MLAs, who returned to the party after a similar “misadventure’’.
 
 Liezietsu’s selection as Zeliang’s successor took place amid mounting pressure from the public for the latter’s removal from office.
 
 The CM, who has been camping in Delhi since Wednesday, became the target of people’s anger after two persons died in police firing during a demonstration against the reservation of seats for women in urban local bodies on January 31. On Thursday, he asked the   (NTAC) and the   (JCC), which are leading a campaign against him, for “two to three days to ensure a smooth transfer of power”.
 
 Speaking at an emergency meeting of the NPF central executive council here, Liezietsu said, “Some of our legislators have gone to Kaziranga. They are still NPF legislators and we are in touch with many of them.” He added, “A change in our favour will take place in a day or two.”
 
 The arrival of Governor PB Acharya and Rio in Dimapur, the state’s only airport, from New Delhi by the same flight around 12.50pm added more to the speculation about Zeliang’s successor.
 
 Acharya flew into Kohima from Dimapur in a helicopter while Rio, known to be close to the BJP, spent some time talking to the media in Dimapur. On his arrival here, Acharya met assembly speaker C Sazo at Raj Bhavan. The nature of their discussion was not known.
 
 “I have come home because of the existing political situation resulting out of the demand for Zeliang’s resignation,” Rio remarked. “Let me speak to the legislators,” he said when asked if he would assume charge as the CM again. He said he was aware of the speculation about him taking over as the CM.
 
 In 2014, Rio had vacated the CM’s chair for Zeliang to contest the Lok Sabha election. Last year, the NPF suspended him for indulging in “anti-party activities” till further notice.
 
 On Saturday evening, the speaker paid “a courtesy call” on Liezietsu. When contacted, some senior MLAs staying at Kaziranga, said they would return to Kohima soon. “Party functionaries should not get unduly worried,” one of them added.
 
 
