JAIPUR: The state will offer 2,055   and 1,494 seats for   in government and   this year.

 Ahead of counselling for admissions to   and BDS courses, the undergraduate (UG) admission board   of the state has issued a list of medical colleges and dental colleges along with available seats.
 
 The admission board has started the registration process of NEET counselling in the state for successful candidates from July 15. The board has come up with the cut-off for qualifying for counselling. Those who have secured a score of 131 and more in NEET have qualified in the general category. The same is 118 for the physically handicapped and 107 for SC, ST and OBC categories.
 
 “For medical and dental seats, only those candidates who have the qualifying score in NEET 2017 and fulfill the domicile conditions are eligible for counselling, filling and locking of choices as per available MBBS seats in medical colleges. For 15% management/NRI seats, all NEET 2017 qualified candidates can register and there is no restriction in domicile status,” as per the notification issued by the admission board.
 
 The highest numbers of seats are available in three government medical colleges—Sawai Man Singh Medical College, Jaipur; Sardar Patel Medical College, Bikaner; and SN Medial College, Jodhpur, all of which with 208 seats each.
 
 The government medical colleges in Ajmer, Kota and Udaipur have 123 seats each. There are 167 NRI and management quota seats in the state.
 
 As far as BDS is concerned, there are only 34 seats in the Jaipur government dental college. In comparison, 1,241 BDS seats are available in private dental colleges. There are 219 NRI and management quota seats in private dental colleges.
 
 The admission board has already clarified that candidates selected to the government dental college (RUHS College of Dental Sciences) will have to submit a bond of Rs 4 lakh in favour of the principal of the said college along with a bank guarantee of Rs 1 lakh.
 
 Candidates selected to a government medical college will have to submit a bond (Rs 5 lakh) of commitment to serve the state government for two years.
 
 
 
