AHMEDABAD: A group of alumni of the Indian Institutes of Management, based in the US, has said that the premium institutes can be given autonomy if they are ready to include the provision of reservations for faculty appointments. A letter sent to the Indian parliament by the US IIM   said that the proposed partial autonomy won’t bring diversity to faculties.

 A statement released by a US-based entrepreneur and IIM-Kolkata graduate, Nageswari Cherukonda; and an IIM-Bangalore graduate Nagarjun Chevula, who works with the New Jersey department of justice in the US, said that the IIMs lack diversity in faculties and doctoral positions. “If further autonomy needs to be granted to the IIMs, it must be only on the basis of a mandate to introduce reservations for faculties as well as in PhD and fellowship programmes for SC, ST, and marginalized communities so that we see representation from every section of Indian society,” the statement said.
 
 “The faculty body at these institutions is drawn from a very narrow spectrum of Indian society and lacks diversity and inclusion that elicit the relevance and legitimacy of IIMs,” the statement said. “Our experience suggests that IIMs don’t have a separate Scheduled Caste (SC) and Scheduled Tribe (ST) students cell, which the IITs have, for addressing issues relating to possible discrimination.”
 
 Identifying and recognizing the problem of the lack of diversity must be the first step, the statement said. “We urge that the IIM Autonomy Bill be withdrawn and social diversity and the inclusion of more reserved-castes categories be implemented with greater accountability to serve the nation,” the statement said. 
 
 The US IIM Alumni Network, comprising around 50 members from various IIMs, said that an   reply from the ministry of human resource development revealed in May last year that only two faculty members from the SC category and six from the Other Backward Class have been serving at these premier management institutes, against 226 faculty members from general categories. Members of the alumni network said that they were planning to meet HRD minister  .
 
 
