BENGALURU: The city police arrested the fifth suspect in the Kammanahalli molestation case, where a six-member gang allegedly attacked a woman in the early hours of January 1, amid reports that the survivor is said to have switched off all communication channels with police.
Four youths, including the main accused Ayyappa, alias Nitish Kumar, 19, who grabbed and threw the woman to the ground, were arrested on Thursday, while two of their accomplices remained at large.
 
 James, 21, a resident of   and a delivery boy with an online portal, was arrested on Friday . James was picked up from  , off  , after a local tipped off the police that he was holed up in a house in the area.
 
 James, Somashekar alias Chinni, 24, and Sudhi alias Sudhesh, 20, and a fourth absconding accomplice, identified only as Pappi, were stationed at the end of the road on two two-wheelers, while Ayyappa and Leno, alias Lenin Patrick, 20, accosted the woman on another scooter. Ayyappa attacked the woman, who was returning with her sister after ushering in the New Year on MG Road.
 
 The woman's sister, who was a few paces ahead and had entered their house, rushed out and raised an alarm, prompting Ayyappa to let go of the survivor. Ayyappa and Leno sped away from the spot.
 
 The six youths were stalking the woman, who had come to visit her sister only a week earlier. They were partying in a Kammanahalli park on the fateful day when they spotted the sisters alighting from an autorickshaw, and decided to attack the woman.
 
 The Kammanahalli case was taken up for investigation after The Times of India provided the police CCTV footage of the incident. The assault was caught on the CCTV camera installed in front of a house, near the scene of crime.
 
 Meanwhile, the four youths arrested on Thursday were later produced before a magistrate, who remanded them to five days in police custody.
 
 While reports earlier on Friday said the survivor had identified two of the accused,  , additional commissioner of police (East), categorically denied it.
 
 Commissioner of police Praveen Sood had said on Thursday that they were in touch with the survivor, who had said she would cooperate with the investigations.
 
 CHARGES TO BE SCALED UP?
 
 The city police are sifting through evidence in the Kammanahalli case and examining whether they can scale up charges against the accused, a source privy to the investigation said.
 
 Currently , the accused are booked under sections 341 (wrongful restraint), 354 A and B (sexual harassment) and 34 (Acts done by several persons with common intention). Scaling up the charges could mean hauling up the accused for attempt to kidnap and attempt to rape, a source explained.
 
