KENDRAPARA: Six days after arresting  , (Mahima), 63, managing director of   (OSL), on the charges of murder, police on Sunday started his interrogation at   after taking him on four-day remand.

 The court of judicial magistrate first class (JMFC), Kujang, on December 26 had rejected the bail plea of Mahima and another accused Basant Bal, 69, director of OSL, and allowed police to take both of them on remand for four days from December 29. 
 
 Both of them are accused in the murder of Mahendra Swain, general manager of Hyderabad-based Seaways Shipping and Logistics Limited, a stevedore firm. 
 
 "As Mahima was not well on December 29 we took him on remand on January 1 to quiz him about the murder case. Bal is now undergoing treatment at the   in Cuttack," said additional superintendent of police, Paradip, Gadadhar Pradhani.
 
 The marathon grilling of Mahima continued till Sunday afternoon. The focus of interrogation was Mahima's alleged nexus with another accused Rakesh Chaubey, a Jharkhand-based businessman and a close associate. Rakesh had confessed before the police that he had received Rs 12 lakh from Mahima at OSL office in Cuttack to hire criminals to kill Swain, police said. Swain was gunned down by four assailants on October 26 in Paradip. 
 
 "We are also interrogating Mahima regarding his visit to many places in India, Nepal and Thailand after the police filed a case against him on October 27," added the police officer. Mahima and Bal, who were brought back from Bangkok to Bhubaneswar on December 26, were remanded in judicial custody after they were produced before the court of JMFC at Kujang. 
 
 The court on November 19 allowed police to take Rakesh on three-day remand for interrogation into the murder of Swain. Police quizzed him extensively during the three days. The court also on December 26 allowed police to take another accused Santosh Sethy, a close associate of Mahima, on 10-day remand to quiz him regarding the murder and his role in providing shelter to the fugitives. "We are interrogating Sethi in Paradip police station. During interrogation, Sethi admitted that he arranged shelter for Mahima and Bal in some places in the country and Nepal," added Pradhani.
 
