A day after   were slapped on Sikhs For Justice (SFJ) legal advisor Gurpatwant Singh Pannun and four others for getting displayed “Referendum 2020” hoardings at different places in Punjab, Pannun has written a letter to   Chief Minister Captain   reminding him of signing Amritsar Declaration in 1994.

 Terming that the case was an attempt to terrorize the people of Punjab “who have responded positively to the referendum 2020 campaign”, SFJ said it would continue with the campaign. “Sedition charges will not deter and we will continue ‘Referendum 2020’ campaign in Punjab from Sikh rights groups centralized office in New York,” the group said in a letter to Punjab CM. 
 
 “While on the one hand, you are a signatory to the ‘Amritsar Declaration’ of 1994 which demanded Sikhs’ right to self determination, on the other hand, after coming into power, you became a nationalist professing belief in unity of India and supporting India’s occupation of Sikh homeland, Punjab”, the letter said, copy of which was also sent to journalists.
 
 “Punjab Independence Referendum 2020 is a peaceful, non-violent and democratic campaign under the  , International laws and treaties.
 
 The right to self-determination for all people has been guaranteed under the UN Charter and Article 1 common to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the letter argued.
 
 “Capt. Amarinder, if and when you overcome your extraordinary ignorance, arrogance and prejudice you shall discover the basic, fundamental, elementary, rudimentary truth that Indian occupied Punjab belongs to Sikh people. India’s occupation of Punjab must end. Nothing more. Nothing less” SFJ’s letter concluded.
 
 Notably, last year SFJ had successfully managed to scuttle captain Amarinder Singh’s election campaign in Canada, who first after cancelling his big meetings then cancelled the tour, after the group wrote to Canadian government that Canadian laws did not permit campaigning of a foreign election. 
 
