NASHIK: Motorists caught flouting   rules on city’s roads will now have to pay the penalty for it and also lose the driving   for three months. Moreover, repeat offenders will risk cancellation of their licence.

 For the first time, the traffic police and the regional transport office ( ) have decided take a joint initiative to discipline motorists and also reduce the number of road accidents.
 
 Offences such as jumping signals, talking on the mobile while driving, driving under influence of alcohol and rash driving will invite suspension of the licence.
 
 In a joint press briefing on Thursday, city police commissioner Ravinder Singal and regional transport officer Bharat Kalaskar said it will be a zero tolerance drive against the motorists.
 
 “Apart from penalising the erring motorists, they can also simultaneously suspend the licence for three months,” said Singal.
 
 “Repeat   of rules may also see the RTO proposing the cancellation of licence in the local court,” said Kalaskar.
 
 “So far the police action was restricted to fines. The police used to recommend to the RTO for suspension of licences only in some cases. However, we have now decided to jointly organise the drive and suspend the licence,” said Singal. 
 
 “In case of violation of rules, the police will penalise the motorist on the spot and an officer from the RTO will go ahead with the procedure to suspend the driving license,” he said.
 
 The police chief pointed out that the action will be carried out on a large scale in certain areas of the city where traffic violations are very high.
 
 The police department has now got zebra crossings painted at   where a huge STOP sign will be put up at the signal. The vehicles are expected to stop at this point or be penalised. 
 
 Kalaskar said road the safety committee, appointed on the directives of the  , has ordered the RTOs to ensure that the licences of motorists found violating six norms be suspended at once. “The assistant RTO has been empowered to first suspend the licence of the offenders and revoke the same if required,” he said.
 
 There city reported 3,269 traffic violations in the past six months, with the numbers of cases against those speaking on mobile phones while driving were the highest at 1,910.
 
 Jayant Bajbale, assistant commissioner of police (traffic), said policing and enforcing of rules have brought down the number of accidents and fatalities to some extent, but the numbers of violations is still very high.
 
