SECUNDERABAD: The Secunderabad Cantonment (SCB) is parched even before the onset of hot summer months. Taps in Karkhana in Secunderabad Cantonment limits have gone dry. The SCB has been forced to cut down water supply. At present, residents get drinking water only once in five days.

 Residents of Picket area are also the worst hit. This is the first time in many years that the board is faced with severe water shortage in the first half of March. Bolarum is another locality where the crisis is high.
 
 Ironically, there is sufficient water in reservoirs. But the SCB does not have the requisite infrastructure to tap the water from various reservoirs. The Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board ( ) supplies 45 lakh gallons of water per day to SCB. The requirement is 55 LGPD. While twin cities of Hyderabad and Secunderabad get water supply on alternate days, the residents of Cantonment have to be content with water supply once in five days.
 
 “Though the SCB gets short supply from the HMWSSB, we have been managing through our internal distribution network. We are unable to expand our water supply distribution network due to lack of infrastructure like service reservoirs and trunk mains. We have made several requests to the   to increase supplies but they all fell on deaf ears. The HMWSSB insists on payment of water dues,“ SCB water wing superintendent S Raj Kumar told TOI.
 
 Most of the localities in the cantonment get water through pipelines laid decades ago. No new pipelines are laid in recent times. This is also affecting water supply . To meet the demand, the SCB is running 18 tankers daily . Still it is not able to cope with the demand due to dry weather.
 
 “Ward members pressurise us to divert tankers to their localities. They divert tankers directly from filling stations. It has become a tough task for us.If we ignore their plea they will turn their ire at us,“ an official of SCB said. S Brahmananda Reddy , a resident of Karkhana, feared that the problem will increase as the mercury soars. “We are spending sleepless nights. As SCB authorities are unable to provide enough water through tankers, we have to depend on private tankers. We have to shell out between `1,000 and `1,500 per tanker,“ said Brahmananda Reddy .
 
 Many residents are visiting their relatives in other areas of the city to tide over the water crisis. “The SCB has failed utterly to resolve the water problem. We have been paying property taxes and water bills regularly . But the SCB does not bother to augment water supplies. The problem will be unmanageable during summer,“ said a retired government employee, who lives in Bollarum.
 
