LUCKNOW: Unlike their predecessors Akhilesh Yadav and Mayawati who took the council route to secure their position as chief ministers in the previous SP and BSP regimes respectively,   Aditya Nath   and his   will contest vidhan sabha elections. Sources said   MP Yogi is not likely to contest from any other Vidhan Sabha constituency, while Maurya may contest from a constituency in Allahabad district.

 Yogi might contest from   (rural) seat, said sources, adding it is unlikely he would contest from Gorakhpur City, which is represented by four-time MLA Dr Radha Mohan Das Agrawal.
 
 Gorakhpur (rural) seat was won by BJP’s Vipin Singh, who got the ticket thanks to Yogi. After former BJP MLA Vijay Bahadur Yadav joined Samajwadi Party following dispute with Yogi before assembly election the latter gave the ticket to Vipin Singh, hence the seat is prestigious for the chief minister, who is also the Gorakhnath temple head priest. 
 
 Maurya, on the other hand, is likely to contest from his old vidhan sabha constituency Sarathu in Allahabad from where he was elected MLA for the first time. The party also has yet to take decision on how the other deputy chief minister Dr Dinesh Sharma, transport minister Swatantra Deo Singh and minister of minority affairs Mohsin Raza will become House members. 
 
 BJP leaders in Lucknow are divided in that some want him to contest for a seat in Lucknow and the candidate who vacates be given the post of mayor, while others wants Sharma to enter the Legislative Council. The party has already appointed Dr Sharma as leader of the legislative council. As of now, the UP Legislative Council has one vacancy out of the total strength of 100 seats, while BSP-sacked Naseemuddin Siddiqui is independent. Hence, only one BJP minister can be accommodated. However, they are banking on the status of MLC Ambika Chaudhary. According to BJP insiders, the party is hoping that vice-chairman of the council will take a decision on his qualification sooner than later. This would allow BJP to capture two seats.
 
 Even after this, a final decision on who would contest vidhan sabha election and who would go to council is yet to be taken.
 
