Ghaziabad: The divisional commissioner,  , has directed the officials in   to lodge FIRs under   against those who have encroached water bodies in the district.

 The directive came at a meeting attended by the district magistrate, GDA vice-chairperson, additional municipal commissioner, officials of housing board and police.
 
 The meeting was held following a recent National Green Tribunal order on restoration of ponds and water bodies in the district in which it had ordered the principal secretary to be present before it. 
 
 “The meeting was called by divisional commissioner Dr Prabhat Kumar in the backdrop of the NGT order and all agencies have been asked to make a blue print for restoration of water bodies. They have been given three days to come up with a report on how many water bodies are encroached,” said D K Sinha, additional municipal commissioner, GMC. “We have given a list of 34 water bodies in Ghaziabad. We have been asked to physically verify the extent of encroachment,” said Sinha.
 
 The NGT, on a petition filed by environmentalist Sushil Raghav, had ordered on May 11 that the principal secretary be present before the tribunal on the next date of hearing on May 25. 
 
 “On Thursday, when the matter came up for hearing, the principal secretary was not present which irked the tribunal. It ordered that on May 29, on the next date of hearing, the principal secretary be present or else action will be initiated against him,” said Sushil Raghav, petitioner. 
 
 “The meeting presided over by the divisional commissioner came after this,” Raghav added.
 
 The case dates back to December 2014 when the NGT had passed an order directing the chief secretary to restore and free encroached water bodies within six months and file status report every month. However, the administration did not file a single status report forcing the petitioner to file a contempt plea in NGT. The administration though came up with a list of water bodies which have been encroached and as per the report prepared by it, there are 1,036 ponds which are encroached either fully or partially.
 
 Raghav in is petition had claimed that nearly 2,403 hectares of water bodies have been encroached to make way for buildings and other infrastructural projects thereby putting in jeopardy the fragile eco system resulting in alarming depletion of groundwater.
 
 
