MADURAI: The   is famous for multiple things and boat building is one among them. For ages, boats and sailing vessels have been built and maintained in Tuticorin. Of late, the   have adopted a new technique called “ balloon method” of using airbags in place of logs and steel rollers to launch finished or repaired crafts into water. 

 The boat yard at Tuticorin is located in a corner of the town fishing harbour. Both   are constructed for costs ranging from Rs 70 lakh to Rs 1 crore. There are 254 fishing trawlers operating from Tuticorin fishing harbour and another 32 sailing vessels operating from the old harbour area. Periodically, these fishing and sailing crafts have to be docked in the boat yard for repair and maintenance works too. 
 
 After building or maintenance works, the yard workers will undertake the laborious task of launching the vessel back into the water. Using large wooden logs or steel rollers under the boat and steel ropes to pull, the boat will be launched or docked. Considering the   involved, it will take even five days to put a boat back to the sea. There have been yard accidents too when the steel rope snapped or wooden/steel rollers gave way. 
 
 Recently, the boat builders purchased airbags from China to check these accidents. Made of rubber, the airbags are placed under the new or repaired craft. Using compressor motors, the airbags are filled and earth movers deployed to move the boat towards water. Four or five airbags are used at a stretch to float the vessel on land. After the craft moves out, the air-bags are decompressed and spread ahead of it to be filled in again. Using this method, a fishing boat weighing 70 tonnes was launched into the sea on Wednesday within hours attracting much attention in the yard.
 
 Using airbags prevents any last minute damage to the hull, according to boat owners. “Airbags are safer and do not damage even the paint”, said Anthonyappa who launched his boat on Wednesday. The new technique will be useful for all vessels operating from Tuticorin, said Princeton Fernando, president of Sailing Vessels Owners Association. “Using conventional methods to dock and launch boats require lot of manpower and there is shortage of workers also. We feel that airbag technology will be ideal to work on the vessels”, he stated. 
 
 Subash Fernando from shipping industry at Tuticorin said that the method was called balloon system and used in big ship yards like Kochi and Visakhapatnam. It was first introduced in Singapore and quickly adopted in ship yards across the world. “It facilitates floating to move the crafts on ground”, he said.
 
 
 
 
 There are 254 fishing trawlers and 32 sailing vessels operating from Tuticorin harbour 
 
 Around seven to eight fishing crafts are built at Tuticorin every year for boat owners in Tuticorin, Ramanathapuram and Kanyakumari 
 
 Conventionally wooden logs and steel rollers are used to dock or launch a craft in Tuticorin 
 
 Airbags, each of length 8 metres and 1.5 metres circumference provide the cushioning effect to move the craft in the yard
 
 Airbags save time and manpower since it will require four to five days and 60 workers to dock or launch a craft from sea to shore and vice versa.
 
