KOCHI: "It's your best chance. You may never get another opportunity like this, maybe never again in your life" this was what Kerala coach   told the trailing Kerala women after the third quarter of the final of the   against Telangana on Saturday. The players responded to their coach's call and put on a memorable performance to script a turnaround and gave Kerala only their second title in the history of the championship, thus ending an agonising 32-year wait.

 Kerala won all their matches in the campaign and it was a success down to teamwork. "Every player who came out responded well to the situation and played according to the team's game plan. So I was able to make changes without affecting our game and to be fair, the bench strength exceeded my expectations," said Stephan, who has been coaching the team for the last three national championships. 
 
 As has been the case with the Kerala team in the recent past, it was Indian international Jeena PS who pulled the team forward in crunch moments. "From 2010, I have been playing for Kerala in the nationals. Our results kept improving over the years and it's a dream come true for most of us to win it finally," said Jeena, who top-scored for Kerala in all but one match. 
 
 Apparently, Jeena's performance in the semifinal, a match in which she managed to keep the 6' 9" centre of Chhattisgarh,   quiet, has drawn praise from former India captain  . "I have seen pictures of Jeena blocking Poonam. It was impressive and I have let her known my appreciation. In fact, a lot of good players are coming up from the state now and this win can only boost the sport," Geethu told TOI. 
 
 Usually, basketball coaches are pretty expressive and they yell at their players for even the slightest of errors. But this is where the composed approach of Stephan helped the team, feels Jeena. "He devises tactics and gives the players the freedom to express on the court. Even if we commit an error, Antony sir never scolds us," said Jeena. 
 
 The victory becomes even more impressive as it was achieved without another regular international  , who was ruled out due to health issues prior to the tournament. But players like  , who was playing in her first nationals and the experienced Poojamol KS, who was making a comeback to the team, put their hand up. 
 
 With a nice blend of youth and experience, this team has the right ingredients to maintain their ascendancy at the top at the national level. And it is now up to the likes of Jeena and Co to have a stranglehold over the title in the coming years.
 
