NEW DELHI: Grounded   MP   finally expressed regret on Thursday for assaulting an Air India staff member during a flight last month, describing it as an “unfortunate incident“, and asked for the lifting of a flying ban imposed on him by airlines.

  
  and tried to push him off the plane at Delhi airport, resulting in widespread outrage, a police case and a flight ban that restricted his movement, forcing him to travel by train.
 
  
  
 His attempts to take a flight since were repeatedly thwarted. “I write to convey my regrets for the unfortunate incident that took place on March 23, 2017, in the Air India flight AI-852, seat number 1F. It could have been no one's intention to have the situation aggravate to the level that it eventually did.While the ongoing investigation will bring out the factual sequence of events to fix responsibility, this incident may kindly not be seen as a reason for likely recurrence of such an event in future also,“ Gaikwad's letter to civil aviation minister   said. 
 
 The letter came on a day Sena MPs almost 
  when he refused to take note of their demand that the flight ban be lifted. Union minister   came close to getting physical and had to be escorted out by BJP leaders who also led Raju out of the House. Later, the party threatened to boycott an NDA dinner on April 10 unless the Gaikwad issue was resolved.
 
 Gaikwad's letter, however, seems to indicate that despite its bluster, the Sena is looking for a way out of the jam it finds itself in. Raju reportedly made it clear to the Sena MPs at a meeting with Lok Sabha Speaker Sumitra Mahajan that without an apology , the ban on Gaikwad would not be lifted. He had earlier told the House that MPs could not expect unequal treatment.
 
 The airlines had not taken a decision on lifting the ban on Gaikwad till the time of going to press. The police complaints by AI and the victim filed on the day of assault will, however, continue to be probed.
 
 “As the restriction on flying is affecting the effective discharge of my duties and responsibilities, I would request you to lift this restriction and let the investigation eventually determine the circumstances which led to the incident,“ Gaikwad noted rather plaintively .
 
 A section of AI pilots have already said they will not fly Gaikwad unless he apologises.
 
 Meanwhile, AI unions have backed chairman and managing director (CMD) Ashwani Lohani who was subjected to a barrage of verbal assaults by the Shiv Sena on Thursday .“ AI CMD kaun hai? Uski auqat kya hai? AI kya hai... dekh lenge,“ Shiv Sena MP   had said during the day .
 
 “Our CMD has boosted the morale and confidence of employees of AI... such unwarranted statement from senior leaders will contribute in a negative manner for the turnaround of AI. Employees have full confidence in our CMD,“ the Air Corporations Employees Union wrote in an open letter. 
 
