PATNA: Girls in the state capital have probably got a feeling that ‘they won’t get anything without pain and sacrifice’. This is probably the reason why they are ready to face all kinds of   themselves in the art of  .

 Nisha Perween, a Class XI student of Oriental College, Patna City, said learning self-defence art is the need of the hour, especially for girls as it makes one self-reliant and confident. 
 
 She has even won a silver medal in South Asian Karate-Do Federation (SAKF) Championship in the ‘Junior and U-21 Championships’ category in September, 2016. Nisha, a black belt, has been learning karate in a local institute for the past three years. Her father, who works as a guard in a building on Exhibition Road, has grudgingly accepted his daughter’s talent. “I was always interested in karate. It has helped me realize my own individuality,” she said with a twinkle in her eye. 
 
 Nisha’s coach Pinky Singh is among the first few women black belt state champions in Bihar. Singh won gold in 1996 and has been coaching the aspiring karatekas since then. “Some years back, people didn’t want girls to take part in  , as they thought it wasn’t feminine enough. Girls were supposed to learn dance, singing or drawing. But, the world is changing. Presently, I am coaching around 500 girls from the Government Women’s College at Gardanibagh. Although the girls aren’t regular, they still know the basics of self-defence and can protect themselves,” said Singh.
 
 President of   Karate Association of Bihar and chief instructor at the institute, Nalin Kumar said he has seen an increase in the number of girls eager to learn karate or mixed martial arts during the last one decade. At present, Kumar says, he is training almost 700 children out of which 40% are girls. He held an all-girls workshop on April 8 near Dak Bungalow roundabout where 50 enthusiastic girls learnt the basics of martial arts.
 
 Suraj Kumar, chief coach of Patna Wushu Association, has been training 50 underprivileged children in his institute. “Learning martial arts is still a taboo for underprivileged girls and hence there are only 8-10 of them among the 50 children. But I am going to keep on trying to spread awareness,” he said. His Wushu institute has 80 children, 40% of them being girls. 
 
 One of the girls Kumar coached was Anshu Kumari. Coming from a family of vegetable vendors, Anshu exhibited natural talent and won bronze at the 15th Junior National Wushu Championship in Pune in 2016. “I have noticed a drastic change in the mentality of the people in the last two years. Hopefully, with time, more people will become aware of the importance of such sports and will let girls come forward.”
 
 Soni Singh of Raja Bazar has an 11-year-old daughter and a 7-year-old son and both are learning martial arts. She stresses that every child should learn self-defence, especially girls. 
 
 Magadh Mahila College (MMC) also organizes martial arts classes for students. BA Part I student Anamika, who had won silver medal in the State Taekwondo Championship under Bihar Taekwondo Association in May 2015, said, “Learning self-defence is essential. We have to prove that we are not the weaker gender. Girls should come forward and prove their mettle.”
 
 A BCom Part II student in MMC, Hansika has just started practising martial arts. She believes it is a step towards self-reliance. 
 
 
