Aurangabad: The   recently withdrew the powers delegated to top police officials to appoint special public prosecutors (PPs) for various cases after the Aurangabad bench of the high court filed a suo motu petition in this regard.

 In a government resolution (GR) passed at the fag end of October last year, the state withdrew the powers to the top police officials which it had granted in a   issued in May 2015. 
 
 The October GR mentions that the police officials should send a proposal for special PPs to the state government through the home department. The police should also ensure that the lawyers being proposed as special PPs should have at least 10 years’ experience. The proposal will then be sent to the law and judiciary department for further approval.
 
 In May 2015, the government had passed 14 GRs aimed at improving the conviction rate in the state. On the priority list, the GR delegating powers to the police for appointing special counsels was in third place. The powers were delegated to officers of the rank of superintendent of police, commissioner of police, special inspector general of police and director general of police. The appointment was to be made for a period of two years, following which the performance of the special PPs would be reviewed.
 
 With the chief minister’s office personally monitoring the implementation of the GR, the superintendents of police, range inspectors and police commissioners from across the state formed a team of special PPs to contest all sensitive cases.
 
 Accordingly, special PPs were appointed in cases such as the Shruti Kulkarni suicide in Aurangabad, Bhangsi Mata Gadh gangrape, a minor’s rape in Jalna, three cases including rape and murder from Parbhani, and a number of sensitive cases from across the state, including Pune, Nagpur, Thane and Mumbai.
 
 However, it was the high number of adjournments in the Bhangsi Mata Gadh gangrape case that drew the attention of the high court, which not only passed strictures but also filed a suo motu petition against the appointment of special PPs by the police.
 
 Special PP Renuka Ghule-Palwe, who represented the rape victim and went in for a number of adjournments, said, “The victim was not cooperating, making things difficult for us. There were fears of her turning hostile, which is why I had to resort to a number of adjournments.”
 
 All the accused in the case, except one, secured bail from the lower court. The one accused, who was perturbed by the frequent adjournments and was subsequently denied bail, filed a writ petition before the court pleading that either the trial in his case should begin or he should be granted bail.
 
 While going through the accused’s petition, the Justice Nitin Sambre noticed that the appointment of special PPs was not in accordance with the law. As per the criminal procedure code (CrPC), the appointment of special PPs and PPs is the prerogative of the government. There is no provision to delegate these powers to anyone else.
 
 Aurangabad commissioner of police Amitesh Kumar, who had appointed a team of 25 special PPs, said, “The appointments were facing a number of legal technicalities including who would control and fix accountability of these lawyers. As these lawyers were being appointed by the police, the law and judiciary was helpless in fixing accountability and monitoring them.”
 
 Lawyers who had been appointed as special PPs said the October GR has had an adverse effect on cases. One of them, K G Bhosale, said, “I was special PP in a sensitive case of crime against women. Due to the latest development, we fear that the case may end up with the acquittal of the accused.”
 
 Another lawyer,  , said, “There is definitely a need to appoint special PPs in sensitive cases having an impact on society. The government should relax the appointment process.”
 
 Lawyer Sachin Sarda said, “The decision of the government to delegate powers to the police for appointing special PPs was hurried. A year later, the decision has been found to be bad in law. This may delay the trials in sensitive cases.”
 
 Meanwhile, the police are still waiting for a clear communication on what to do with the lawyers who are already appearing in sensitive cases. Parbhani superintendent of police Niyati Thakar said, “We have appointed special PPs in three sensitive cases. Though we have received the communication about withdrawing our powers to appoint special PPs, we are not yet sure about what to do with the special PPs in the three cases.”
 
