NAGPUR: In a partial respite to Mehkar MLA Sanjay Raimulkar, the Nagpur bench of   on Thursday, quashed the decision of  , Akola, that recommended his disqualification last year, after his caste claims that were declared invalid.
 
 A division bench comprising justice   and justice Swapna Joshi remanded back the matter to the panel asking it to reconsider the decision with fresh evidence and follow proper procedure within six months. The judges directed all parties, including petitioners and respondents, to remain present on April 12.
 
 The Shiv Sena MLA knocked the judiciary’s doors for staying committee’s findings and also restraining the Mumbai-based   (SEC), from cancelling his seat due to invalidation of his caste claim.
 
 The petitioner won election from Mehkar constituency, reserved for scheduled caste in 2009. He submitted a caste certificate notifying that he belongs to ‘Sutar Balai’. His opponents then lodged a complaint with Caste Scrutiny Committee that he furnished a forged certificate distorting the facts. Even though the matter was pending, he recontested from same constituency in 2014 assembly polls and emerged victorious.
 
 The complainants then moved to the high court which directed the committee to announce its decision as early as possible. After over a year, the panel declared his caste claims invalid, in its report submitted to the court.
 
 The MLA then challenged panel’s decision in the same court to save his seat, but was dismissed. Even the Supreme Court upheld high court’s decision while rejecting his special leave petition (SLP).
 
 Another petition was filed by Congress’ Laxmanrao Ghumre, through counsel  , after he lost the elections against Raimulkar. He claimed that the MLA belonged to ‘Sutar’ caste that comes under Other Backward Class (OBC) category. He, however, contested from the Mehkar constituency, which was reserved for the SC by submitting a fake certificate, thus flouting Section 5(a) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951.
 
 During last hearing, the court refused to grant interim relief to the MLA from invalidation of his caste claim and also his contentions stating that those were never raised till the committee’s decision. The court tersely pointed out that for about 56 years, till 2005, he never objected to his existing caste.
 
