Siddharth Kumar Tewary's hit show ' ' on Colors recently won at the   for its spectacular and ground breaking visual effects. When contacted, an elated Siddharth said, "It's a great feeling and extremely inspiring to do good work. We started One Life studios with a mission to set new standards on Indian television, and the award makes us believe that we are on the right path. The entire team at One Life deserves the appreciation, specially  ,   and   for the effort they have put in to maintain quality on a daily basis considering the business of television is very different from a movie, where you have the luxury of time to deliver a superior product. All in all, the entire team at One Life is ecstatic."
Talking about the visual effects involved in the show, Siddharth explains, "We tried to visualise a new world, which was only possible by having a great production design. Amit Singh, our production designer along with Vipul, created the worlds exactly how I visualised them to be. They helped me create the impossible. An entire team of 60 people work exclusively on Shani day and night to maintain the standards set in the beginning, and they deserve the credit for the way the series looks even today, along with all the appreciation the viewers have been giving us."
 What makes this moment even more special for Siddharth and the entire team of 'Karamphaldata Shani' is the fact that they were initially told such a show could not work. Yet the team went along, believing in the conviction of their producer. Siddharth explains, "When we started the show, we were told that pure story-lines don't really work on television anymore, we need to add current trends. I genuinely didn't want to do this as I believed that viewers will appreciate our efforts. And the response we have got for the series is humbling. It just makes us work harder to maintain the standard set on all fronts; be it writing, production or VFX. Everything is in sync now, and what we're doing now is giving our level best to give viewers a premium product on a daily basis."
 
 
 
 
 
