PUNE:   virus has killed more women than men this year, so far.

 This trend was revealed in the analysis of state’s 313 swine flu casualties recorded between January 1 and July 17. “In the age bracket of young adults — 21 to 30 years — more women have died of   this year,” the death analysis report of the state health department stated.
 
 A total of 21 women had succumbed to the contagion from this year age bracket (21-30 years) as against four deaths of their male counterparts in the same age group. Cases recorded in Pune city also underline this fact. “We have 26 cases in the age bracket of 21 to 30 years. Of them, 21 are that of women and rest six that of men,” Anjali Sabne, assistant medical officer of health, Pune Municipal Corporation, said.
 
 State surveillance officer Pradip Awate said, “People should not panic. It is not about any particular age group, everyone should exercise cautions and adopt healthy habits to ward off the disease.”
 
 Awate, however, said compared with earlier outbreaks in 2009 and 2015, the virus has claimed less number of pregnant women (only 10) this year. In Pune city, nine pregnant women were diagnosed with swine flu. “But none of them died,” Sabne added.
 
 The spurt in cases can also be attributed to waning herd immunity in the population. “It is observed that the swine flu virus transmission peaks after a year-long or more lull period. That is because the herd immunity that gets developed during peak transmission period wanes after 8-12 months, making people vulnerable to the virus,” Awate said.
 
 The cases increased exponentially in May this year after the initial spread. “Influenza virus spreads fast and its transmission is more of cyclic nature,” senior paediatrician Sharad Agarkhedkar said, adding that poor awareness about maintaining basic hygiene can push up the transmission rate even further.
 
 A sizable number of healthy individuals have succumbed to the virus. “Delayed treatment is mainly the cause of most deaths,” public health expert Subhash Salunkhe said.
 
