Mumbai: The average   gap in India may have narrowed by two percentage points since last year, but it still stands at a 
  . According to   (MSI) data from 2016, men earned a median gross hourly salary of Rs 346, while women earned only Rs 260 in 2016. While it is an improvement over last year’s over 27%, the pay gap is a notch higher than 24% in 2014. In the  , the average gender pay gap is as high as 30%, even though this is an improvement of 5% points from 2015. This was followed by a 26% pay gap in the  , nearly 22% in the   and 15% in education and research.

 Sanjay Modi, managing director (APAC & Middle East),  , said, “In India, the gender pay gap story holds true and the overall gap across   is at 25%. This primarily is a manifestation of the underlying diversity challenges that organisations currently face. There is a dire need for tangible initiatives to bridge this pay gap with removing structural impediments to women’s growth, providing access to skills training, jobs, and decision-making.”
 
 According to a ‘Women of India Inc’ survey, which aimed at understanding women’s workplace concerns, nearly 44% women feel that gender parity need not be a top priorityfor their organisations. On the other hand, almost 69% expressed that even if gender parity is a priority, the management “does not walk the talk”, indicating the need for India Inc to step up and implement pragmatic policies to bridge the gap. Over 13% feel absence of proper child care is one of the biggest challenges for  .
 
 “Unexamined conventions of women’s commitment to work, distractions of family commitments, societal perception of women who work for long hours, etc, are the challenges that constrain women’s progress. Sensitisation towards gender diversity and a step towards examining our socialised preconceptions would help break barriers to a more fair and inclusive work environment,” said Modi on the separate survey, ‘Women of India Inc’, which was conducted on Monster India’s database capturing responses from over 2000 working women.
 
 
