NEW DELHI: Clearing the air after imposing stringent  , the   ( ) has said that hospitals and retailers could not charge any extra cost from consumers as the price fixed by it includes 8%   to cover all levels in the supply chain. 

 “No additional charge, whatsoever over and above the ceiling price…shall be charged from consumers except local sales taxes/ VAT, if paid in actual,” said an office memorandum issued by NPPA. 
 
 The move followed reports of hospitals tweaking rates for angioplasty and other procedures to accommodate their margins over and above the price cap on stents imposed by the regulator. 
 
 Some industry executives raised concerns that hospitals had to incur maintenance and handling costs for stents as they had to keep inventory. This came even as NPPA clarified that hospitals cannot charge trade margin.
 
 Though in its latest memorandum NPPA acknowledged that coronary stents are also at times directly supplied to hospitals by manufacturers and importers in the abs-ence of any specific retail channel, it clarified that “handling charges” for hospitals are “adequately” covered under the 8% maximum trade margin built into the calculation of the ceiling price.
 
 “Considering the high end value market of coronary stents, this 8% trade margin would cover margins across trade channels working from the level of manufacturer/importer to end user i.e. consumer/patient. 
 
 The 8% margin also adequately covers hospitals’ handling charges, if any,” the NPPA memorandum said.
 
 It said hospitals and doctors were expected to “follow ethical standards” and comply with regulatory provisions. NPPA has also written to the health ministry,   and states on the matter. It has also started a helpline (1800-111255) and launched a platform called ‘Pharma Jan Samadhan’ on its website where consumers can lodge complaints against any violation of the norm.
 
 On Monday evening, NPPA tweeted a notice by a Delhi hospital declaring that it had not received the latest price list by stent manufacturers or importers. The regulator said non-compliance by such companies will invite severe action.
 
 The regulator said hospitals should not charge extra from patients for stents as the price fixed by it included 8% trade margin to cover all levels in the supply chain.
 
