COIMBATORE:  , a suspect in the   and dacoity case, was questioned by   superintendent of police   and police officials at a   in the city on Wednesday evening. The interrogation lasted more than an hour. 

 Murali Rambha and police officials arrived at the hospital around 1.15pm and went to the intensive care unit where Sayan is undergoing treatment for injuries he sustained in an accident on the Palakkad-Thrissur Road on April 29.
 
 "We interrogated Sayan in connection with the Kodanad murder and dacoity case. But we can't divulge any information now with regard to the interrogation," Murali Rambha told TOI after visiting Sayan.
 
 "Sayan's life is important and we are concentrating on his health condition. He is stable, conscious and slightly able to speak now. If we disturb him unnecessarily, it will create problem for his health," said Murali Rambha. He added that the police are investigating all angles and working round-the-clock.
 
 Asked whether the death of prime suspect S Kanagaraj has in any way affected the investigation of the case, the SP replied in the negative. "We are collecting scientific and circumstantial evidence. Our investigation is going in the right direction and our teams are working hard to crack the case as soon as possible," Murali Rambha said.
 
 Meanwhile, a special team led by inspectors Ravindran and Balamurali Sundaram conducted a search at Sayan's residence at Subramaniar Street in the city. The team did not find any documents or valuables from the house, a source said.
 
 Murali Ramba on Wednesday morning visited the spot at Attur in Salem where C Kanagaraj met with an accident and died on April 28.
 
 The Nilgiris district police on Wednesday took two persons under their custody for three days in connection with the case. They were taken to the Kotagiri police station for questioning. The investigating officials planned to take them to the crime scene to explain the sequence of events.
 
 The Malappuram police in Kerala arrested Madavana Veedu Jithin, 19, of Valillappuzha in Areekode in Malappuram district and Karatt Jamsheed, 32, of Vythiri in Wayanad under charges of cheating a few days ago.
 
  A private car rental firm lodged a complaint against the duo and claimed that one of its cars was used in the Kodanad crime by a gang. Jithin had taken the car on rent from Vazhakkad near Areekode on Jamsheed's request. Jithin had failed to return the car to the firm.
 
