MUMBAI: The   told a spe cial trial court on Friday that it had no objection to  's discharge in the 2008   case, reports Rebecca Samervel.

 Special public prosecutor Avinash Rasal said, “The NIA said it did not have sufficient evidence against the accused.“ Thakur, granted bail by the Bombay HC last month, had submitted a plea seeking discharge on May 3 through advocate Prashant Maggu. The matter will come up for hearing before judge S D Tekale on May 29. An RDX bomb fitted on a bike exploded in Male gaon on September 29, 2008, two days before Eid, killing six and injuring 101.
 
 The   (ATS), the earlier agency to probe the case, had submitted a chargesheet against Sadhvi and 11 others. Later, NIA took over and submitted its 2016 chargesheet against 10 people, exonerating six, including Sadhvi.
 
 Sadhvi's standing counsel   said, “The NIA reiterated its stand, which was taken by the agency in its supplementary chargesheet.It was submitted that the agency has no credible evidence against the applicant, which could establish a culpable and cognisable involvement or nexus of the applicant in the present offence.“
 
 On April 25, while granting bail to Sadhvi, the Bombay high court had observed that it cannot be said that there were reasonable grounds to believe the accusations made against her were prima facie true. Maggu cited the high court observation in the discharge plea.
 
 Besides the allegations that she provided the bike, the ATS had said that during a 2008 meeting of Abhinav Bharat in Bhopal, where the Malegaon conspiracy was reportedly hatched, she had offered to provide men for attacks.
 
 Special public prosecutor Rasal said the NIA, in its reply to the discharge application, also pointed to the high court observations with respect to the bike. The high court had said that the forensic report had found the licence plate of the bike used in the explosion was fake. The high court said, “There is enough doubt about the motorcycle used in the blast.“
 
 In the reply, the NIA cited retraction of witness statements. The ATS relied on three witnesses who were at the Bhopal meeting for its chargesheet. Two of them who were reexamined by NIA retracted their statements about her all eged assurance to provide men to execute the blasts.They said they were to rtured by ATS to implicate Sadhvi. One witness later said he was not even present at the meeting. The trial court is currently hearing arguments on framing of charges against the accused, including Col Prasad Purohit. His bail plea was rejected by high court and his appeal is pending in  . The HC order, which goes into merits of the case in detail, however, cannot be used during the trial, the judges had clarified.
 
