New Delhi: Asola   Wildlife   has got a buffer   and ecological protection following a recent notification by the Union environment and forest ministry that has declared a one-kilometre eco-sensitive zone around the wildlife sanctuary to protect its flora and fauna. 

 The notification, which prohibits construction or industrial activities in the sensitive zone, has directed the Delhi government to prepare a zonal action plan within two years for the zone and on how to regulate activities there.
 
 The notofication follows a 2011 Supreme Court order that directed all states to declare such   zones. In this case, the Delhi government will draft the plan in consultation with the Haryana government as parts of this 15.55sq-km eco-sensitive zone also falls under Haryana. The government will also have to consult local people. 
 
 The notification says, “It is necessary to conserve and protect the area...from ecological, environmental and biodiversity point of view and prohibit industries or class of industries and their operations and processes” in this zone. The fauna in the area is represented by 17 species of mammals, around 201 species of resident and migratory birds, 12 species of reptiles and five species of amphibians, including nilgai, jungle cats, small Indian civet, mongoose, jackal and porcupine, it added. The sanctuary also has 83 species of trees, 30 species of shrubs, 95 species of herbs and about 18 species of grasses. 
 
 The zonal plan, which will have to be ready within two years from the date of publication of the notification, will include steps for groundwater management, soil and moisture conservation and demarcate existing worshipping places, villages and urban settlements. It, however, cannot impose any restriction on the approved and existing land use, infrastructure and activities.
 
 Activities like setting up of industries, commercial mining, establishment of waste disposal sites or poultry farms will be prohibited in the eco-sensitive zone, while activities like eco-tourism and introduction of exotic species will be regulated under the laws.
 
 Welcoming the move, experts said it would stop construction activities in the area. “A lot of construction had affected the stormwater drains opening into the lakes,” said Sohail Madan, centre manager at Conservation Education Centre at Asola. “It is a positive move and will help protect the animal corridors in the sanctuary,” he added. 
 
 
