GURUGRAM:   has started a drive against passengers who sit on the floor while travelling in its trains, an annoying habit that goes against basic commuting courtesies but continues to proliferate rather than abate. 

 Special squads have been formed to keep tabs on people who sit on the floor when they do not get a seat while travelling in the train. 
 
 Those found sitting on the floor will be made to get off the train and they can be fined too.
 
 On Friday, the squad conducted checks on the   between   and Gurgaon. 
 
 Women found sitting on the floor in the ladies coach were made to get off at Sultanpur, Arjan Garh and Ghitorni stations during morning hours. Some were also fined Rs 200.
 
 The drive will be conducted regularly before and after the weekend — on Fridays and Mondays — as there is a heavier rush in the Metro on these two days. Checks, however, can be conducted on other days too, Metro officials said.
 
 The drive has been initiated to ensure equal distribution of passengers across all coaches.
 
  A Metro official told TOI people sitting on the floor were a big nuisance for other passengers.
 
 “When people sit on the floor, they affect the movement of other passengers who might want to go to other coaches which are relatively empty,” said the official, who did not wish to be named. 
 
 “They also affect boarding and de-boarding. People can actually trip over the legs of these passengers, which is risky. Moreover, one person sitting on the floor takes the space where two to three people who could stand. Thus, fewer people travel in the train at a given time,” the official added.
 
 Sushma Yadav, a teacher, said it was about time Metro took this step. “Sitting on the floor causes chaos if a train stops abruptly. People should realise it is unsafe for them too,” Yadav said.
 
 “It is embarrassing to jump over men to cross over from one coach to another,” said Rekha, an IT professional working in  , referring to the practice of people sprawling on the vestibule, especially when trains are relatively empty.
 
 But Jayesh Nagda, a civil engineer working for the Haryana government, said the Metro should have coaches with more seats if it wants to stop people from sitting on the floor. 
 
 “After a long tiring day, it becomes difficult to stand for a one-hour journey between Gurgaon and Delhi. If passengers are comfortable sitting on the floor, then what’s wrong?” he asked.
 
 
