PANAJI: The capital city is all set for a quadrangular fight. Considered to be Union defence minister Manohar Parrikar’s turf, the former CM faces an uphill task to secure his citadel for his protege and BJP candidate, sitting MLA Sidharth Kuncalienker. The reason: A likely division of Sarswat and traditional party votes, considering three of the four candidates are fighting for a share of the Gaud Saraswat Brahmin (GSB) community’s pie.

 The RSS rebel-backed Goa Suraksha Manch (GSM) is entering the poll arena for the first time and it has vowed to defeat BJP. Though its original candidate and Parrikar’s friend Krishnaraj ‘Raju’ Sukerkar withdrew on health grounds after announcing his candidature, GSM has now fielded physiotherapist  , who is from the GSB community.
 
 The other débutante party,   (AAP), also has a GSB representative in  . And to add to the political drama, Taleigao strongman Atanasio ‘Babush’ Monserrate, who has been controlling the corporation of the city of Panaji (CCP) for over a decade, and who has been threatening to contest from Panaji in the past, has finally entered the fray. 
 
 Panaji has been traditionally voting for BJP for the past 22 years. There are over 22,000 voters in the capital city’s electorate and the GSB community has a sizeable population. Parrikar created history by winning the Panaji constituency on five occasions, when no one else had won the seat more than two times. In the 2012 polls, Parrikar had won the seat for the fifth time by more than 6,000 votes, while his nominee Kuncalienker won the bypoll by 5,300-odd votes. So far, most Saraswats are Parrikar supporters.
 
 Though BJP has a slight edge, political observers reckon a split in GSB votes may queer the pitch for Parrikar and team. Also, with Monserrate, who has never lost an election since 2002, deciding to contest from Panaji, and with RSS’ rebel faction under Goa RSS prant chief Subhash Velingkar playing an active role in the constituency, BJP will have to really fight hard to defend its seat. GSM has also gone in for a pre-poll tie-up with Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) and Shiv Sena.
 
 “It is a prestigious seat for BJP and Parrikar will be at war to retain the seat for BJP as it his turf,” said a political commentator. Parrikar has even told Panaji voters that even if Kuncalienker is the MLA for Panaji, he will retain stewardship of the capital city and will always be available for Ponnjekars.
 
 A slight respite for BJP came in the way after RSS’ north Goa sanghchalak Sukerkar decided to withdraw. His candidature had sent panic waves in BJP’s fold and the party had even started door-to-door campaigning before announcing its candidate. AAP, on the other hand, has been focusing on door-to-door campaigning and the party claims it has been getting good response.
 
 All the candidates are fighting the assembly elections with the one-point agenda that they will develop Panaji better than the others. While Monserrate’s panel rules the corporation of the city of the Panaji, he has to walk an extra mile to secure the Ponnjekars vote for him.
 
 “It would be a do-or-die situation for Monserrate in Panaji. If he loses the elections, it will be like a political suicide for him by entering the capital city,” a political observer said. For the first time after two decades, Congress is not fielding its candidate in Panaji and has decided to support Monserrate.
 
 “As of now, there is no clear picture who will win the Panaji seat. People of Panaji are yet to make up their minds to choose the candidate they will vote for in the February 4 assembly polls,” say observers.
 
