The year was 1975, I was about 14 years old. At the behest of my dad, I went to   to witness the renowned ghazal singer, Rais Ahmed Khan’s concert. Here I saw   sahab for the first time. I was informed that he had instantly penned a ghazal for the concert and   was to present it as a musical composition. The work of a master shayar and the melodious presentation of a master vocalist wove magic around the audience, creating a euphoric atmosphere, which ended in a thunderous applause.
The ghazal:
 Mauj o saahil say milo
 Mah-e-kaamil say milo
 Sab say mil aao tau ikbaar 
 meray dil say milo 
 To me as a youngster then, and a middle aged adult, now this experience has always been a great source of inspiration. Shaz Tamkanat sahab was a singularly creative literary genius of rare quality, whose immortal poetry appealed to the masses and invoked positive emotions in them.
 Some 29 years later, in 2004 at a concert in Mumbai, when I presented Rais Ahmed Khan an audio CD of the 1975 concert ,his eyes lit up with fond memories of Shaz Tamkanat sahab.
 Shaz Tamkanat sahab always used simple words, thus making it easy for non-literary audience to understand his poetic work and relate to it. This made him a poetic hero amongst the people, as is evident from the fact that over 300,000 hits have been registered on Youtube for his popular poetic works — Mauj o Saahil Say Milo and Kab Tak Mere Moula, presented by diverse artistes.
 Born on January 31, 1933 in Hyderabad, Shaz Tamkanat sahab was a real representative of the literary traditions of his birth place. He penned his first poem at the age of 14, which was a tribute to his mother after she passed on (Intesaab: Walida Marhoom kay naam). Over the years, he authored several poetic works namely  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,   etc.
 Shaz Tamkanat sahab left for heavenly abode in 1985, yet his immortal thoughts echo in melodies of every gazal and qawwali concert in Hyderabad even today. It is imperative in today’s time and age of ‘Cut-Copy-Paste’ that the original works of the great masters are read, taught and discussed. Else, the gen next will not have nothing original to offer to the world. It is the influences of the past, which will be inspiration for the future.
 — inputs by Iqbal Patni
 
