AMARAVATI: With an ambitious aim of switching over to mechanised cultivation in agriculture, the state government carved out a detailed plan which is reflected in the agriculture budget presented on Amaravati soil for the first time. From increasing the subsidy on mechanisation equipment to 70% from 50% to distribution of seeds through biometric system to satellite-based cultivation, the government has grand plans this year. Also, special focus has been laid on agriculture research and drought mitigation. 

 Presenting the agriculture budget with an outlay of Rs 18,214 crore on Wednesday, agriculture minister Prathipati Pulla Rao said that the government is pro-farmer and is committed to making use advanced mechanisms to bring down the investment of the farmers and increase their income. "Not only will it increase the farmers' income, it will also help in practising sustainable agriculture," he said. Last year's outlay was Rs 16,251 crore.
 
 The agriculture minister said that for comprehensive water supply to farms will be taken up with Rs 1,600 crore. "This will be done for six years with the help of World Bank," he said. Also, Rs 717 crore has been allocated for drip and sprinkle irrigation. Two mechanisation training institutes will also come up in the state with the support of JICA.
 
 Pulla Rao added that Rs 147 crore has been allocated for mechanised equipment and added that horticulture and natural and organic farming will be promoted on a large scale. He said 100 clusters for the same will be created in the state. "Our horticulture growth rate target has been pushed up to 25% and Rs 97 crore has been earmarked for Mission for Integrated Development of Horticulture," he added. For the third phase of farmer loan waiver, the government allocated Rs 3,600 crore.
 
 An amount of Rs 308 crore has been allocated for Acharya NG Ranga Agriculture University for construction of new campus, Rs 153 crore for Sri Venkateswara Veterinary Sciences University, Rs 25 crore has been allocated for Indian Institute of Plantation Management Centre coming up at Gannavaram in Krishna district. 
 
 
