NAGPUR: The Government Medical Colleges ( ) will have to soon set their house in order by having   as per   (MCI) norms.

 Colleges that have promoted staff not in accordance with norms — without enough publications required for the post — will have to rectify the mistake before the MCI inspection or else they should be prepared to face de-recognition of departments not meeting the norms.
 
 Sources from some of the GMCs in the state say “The Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) can no longer protect any underqualified teachers. 
 
 “Such teachers, who are working as professors and associate professors (APs), should be shifted to only  . This will also pave way for creating new posts for professors and APs,” they said.
 
 The development comes following a meeting of MCI held on February 23, 2017, in which certain norms were fixed. Sources said the colleges which didn’t have qualified teachers have lost the one-time opportunity of getting more PG seats. 
 
 “MCI had allowed recognition to all colleges having qualified teachers even if they did not have the required infrastructure. Hence, it is high time that the colleges get required number of qualified teachers. They should now either demote or transfer the underqualified teachers at the earliest,” they said.
 
 As per rules, the teacher-student ratio in a GMC should be 1:3 for professor and 1:2 for associate professor (AP) if the AP is a unit head in all clinical subjects. 
 
 To get recognition for training of PG students for departments of medicine, surgery and obstetrics and gynaecology (OBGY), they should have at least 60 beds. All other clinical departments should have 30 beds. 
 
 A unit should normally have 30 beds and a minimum of three full-time faculty of whom one should be professor, one AP and one assistant professor or lecturer. The second unit may be headed by an AP.
 
  The MCI has also fixed the number and quality of publications for each cadre. The council has also clarified that no PG seats will be granted under the national initiative of one-time grant of increasing PG seats (5,000 across country) to colleges that have already been denied PG seats for the year 2017-18. 
 
 Promotion of professors and APs should be as per MCI regulations, fulfilling the required time period necessary for publications, if promotion is after the cut-off date. 
 
 Departments seeking an increase in PG seats but which didn’t send information in the prescribed format will not be permitted or recognized. 
 
