NEW DELHI: Former Pakistan fast bowler   has come to  's defence following the remarks targetted at the Indian captain by former Australian wicketkeeper batsman  . Healy had termed Kohli's behaviour 'unacceptable' towards Australia as the two teams were involved in a series of heated altercations throughout the series.

 Akhtar, who has played against Healy in the past, tweeted out this message towards him: "Amused 2 [to] read @Iheals [Ian Healy] take on @imVkohli [Virat Kohli]. Come on Heals have heard many ‘polite enquiries’ in ur [your] deep voice, case of pot calling kettle black."
 
  
  
 Akhtar also believes that Healy's comments may have spurred Kohli and his team even more as India eventually went on to win the second Test against Australia in Bengaluru to level the four-Test series 1-1. "If anything @Iheals comments on @imVkohli may have switched him & his team on even more. Sorry Heals this was a self-goal!," he further tweeted.
 
  
  
 Healy's jibe was made after India were dismissed for 189 during their first innings against Australia in the second Test in Bengaluru. Kohli was dismissed cheaply as tensions brewed between the two sides. 
 
 Criticising Kohli's aggression, Healy stated that he's losing respect for the 28-year-old. "The pressure is starting to tell on (Kohli). I'm losing respect for him. He's got to be a lot more respectful of his opponents. The stuff he did with   was unacceptable," Healy had told Melbourne Radio station SEN.
 
 "So Kohli's aggression was good for them. But I think it's not good for them anymore. He's really putting some pressure on (his players). You can read pressure all over Ravichandran Ashwin's face. I think there are massive cracks showing in (Kohli)," he would add.
 
 Healy was considered an 'aggressive' figure while batting and behind the stumps, who would not shy away from having a word or two with the opposition. During a Test match against South Africa in 1995, Healy - on being given out caught down leg side by the umpire - once threw his bat in disgust since he believed he hadn't nicked it. One of Healy's infamous incidents includes him sledging former Sri Lanka captain Arjuna Ranatunga during an ODI in Sydney in 1996.
 
 In Healy's response, Kohli said: "We have 1.2 billion people in India and one person doesn't make a difference. And also I think you should go and search on YouTube when he was given out in Centurion down the leg side. I heard he said something about me not having good behaviour with the umpires. I think you all should YouTube that video."
 
