Lipsticks aren’t just about sticking to a bright shade or finding the correct matte/ glossy texture, or lining them right, anymore. This season, the trends are way cooler, almost bordering on bizarre! Are you game enough to try some of the quirkiest ways to wear your pout?

  
 
 
 
 This is surely one of the most bizarre and intriguing   trends. Spotted on the ramps recently, this textured pout was quite a head-turner. (See box for DIY)
 
 
 This surely is not a trend you would like to try in real-life but it will work just fine for your Instagram, Snapchat, Facebook or Twitter feeds. This edgy trend seen at a Paris fashion show was rechristened ‘Kylie Jenner lip challenge gone wrong’ on social media!
 
 
 
 Gold, silver, chrome are not easy-to-carry lip colours. You need to keep the rest of your make-up and clothes subtle to carry it off without looking like a mannequin.
 
  
  
 
 
 These are about rich colours that are mixed to give a marble effect on your pout.
 
  
  
 
 
 You’d say that the glittery top coat has been in forever. But what is new is that you can stick crystals and glitter powder on the glittery gloss. Wear it on bare or painted lips.
 
 
 
 The social media is replete with bold lip trends showcasing the bizarre blues, purples, blacks and greens on your lips. 
 
  
  
 
 
 Go futuristic all the way with rainbow hologram lips. Now you can get lips products that can lend an iridescent, shiny and rainbow coloured glow. 
 
 
 
 
 
 “Outline the lips with one shade darker lip colour,” says  , National Creative Director Make-up, Lakmé Salon. She adds, “Fill in with the same creamy or matte lip colour. Apply glitter gel or skin glue on lips and take small pieces of fabric swathes of different shades and paste them on top. The fabrics should not overlap the outer lip line. Dab softly for final finish.”
 
 
 
 Aesthetician   Tanwar says, “For this you need to apply a glitter lip gloss and then dust gold, chrome or silver sparkles on it.”
 
 
 
 Definitely one of the edgiest and most bizarre style noticed online, this one is about intentionally smudging your lip colour around your mouth. After applying your lipstick, you need to use a smudger to smear lipstick outside your lipline. 
 
