HYDERABAD: Coming close on the heels of chief minister  's statement in the assembly that he has rejected the tariff hike proposal, the Telangana   and   has written to the   ( ) seeking an extension of the existing power tariff.

 The discoms submitted that since the financial year is coming to an end and the new tariff has not yet been fixed, orders from the ERC are needed to continue the existing tariff.Discoms require a fresh order allowing the continuation of power tariff that was fixed in 2016 without which the collection of power bills would not be tenable.
 
 “We requested the ERC to give orders to continue the present tariff for at least three months starting from April, 2017. Basing on the ERC decision, we would move forward.The tariff fixation issue is still with the state government,“ said a senior official in the energy department. In another letter, the Transco and discoms also requested the ERC to give time till April 15 to them to submit the tariff proposals. Even to continue the current tariff, the power utilities have to submit the proposal and get them approved by the ERC.
 
 It may be recalled that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao announced on the floor of the assembly that he would not be game for a power tariff hike in the coming fiscal. Power experts pointed that there is nothing like `no tariff hike' in the era of UDAY. The state government recently joined the Central scheme to divert 75 per cent of its `11,850 crore debt.
 
 “One of the condition to join the UDAY scheme is to agree for regular revision of power tariff based on the revenue and expenditure. After joining the UDAY scheme, no state can opt for a holiday for the tariff hike. If it does not want to increase the power tariff, it has to allot the revenue gap amount in the budget. In the present case, the state has allotted only `4,203 crore against a revenue gap of `8,500 crore,“ explained an official. The Electricity Act of 2003 also made it mandatory to provide financial commitment by the state government if it does not want to raise the tariff.
 
 Meanwhile, ERC officials expedited the exercise to find out the actual revenue gap of the power utilities. They are burning the midnight oil to check the rationality in the figures submitted in the Annual Revenue Requirement (ARR) by the Transco and discoms.
 
