MUMBAI: A blog page of stories and narratives on the Sahiyo website over the last few months has seen a surfeit of voices as diverse as a psychotherapist refusing to recommend khatna and a 24-year old boy from Pakistan on the need for men to start caring; to a Bohra father apologising to his daughter and a grandmother refusing to put her granddaughter through the trauma she had suffered, since a group of Bohra women came forward last year to actively rally against the practice of   cutting (FGMC).

 With a population of about one million, the Dawoodi Bohra community is the most well-known Muslim sect in India to practise female circumcision. Besides India, FGMC is also reported in other Asian countries including Pakistan, Philippines, Sri Lanka, Singapore, Malaysia, Iran, Thailand, Maldives, Brunei, Russia (Dagestan) and Bangladesh.
 
 Yet, Asian countries have remained on the periphery of the UNFPA-UNICEF Joint Programme to accelerate abandonment of female genital mutilationcutting [FGMC) that was developed in 2007 but the statistics are largely restricted to sub-Saharan Africa and the Middle East. In several other Asian countries, including India, silence around the practice is yet to be broken, and even preliminary research studies on the prevalence of FGM are yet to be pursued. As a result, cut girls from these countries have been left out of the global 200-million figure.
 
 To address this, women's groups in India rallying to end the practice have steered a petition to the UN with a coalition of 28 other organisations from the UK and US to Pakistan and Singapore urging the bodies to examine the impact of FGM in Asia and invest in resources towards research, advocacy campaigns and support services for Asian communities trying to end FGM by 2030.“We need rigorous data collection to better understand the scope of the problem and to measure progress. Without reliable baselines, it is difficult to understand whether or not our interventions are working,“ reads the petition that was started by Sahiyo, an advocacy collective of South Asian survivors of FGMC and already garnered close to 300 supporters.
 
 “We've noticed a rise in debate and discussion on the issue within the community .Several Bohras regularly get in touch with us wanting to do something about it. There's growing interest among students for academic research or film projects on the subject too,“ says Aarefa Johari, founder-member of Sahiyo.
 
 Supna Zaidi Peery , author at Muslim World Today and director of the   who is one of the co-signers on the petition told TOI: “FGMC is very under reported and under-investigated in Pakistan. While UNICEF makes concerted efforts to address the issue, Pakistan is not included in the organization's statistics. What we have are rough numbers in local journals indicating 50-60% of affected girls within the Bohra community , a total of around 100,000 in Pakistan.This petition could provide an opportunity to raise awareness and educate.“
 
