Keri: For Hindu families living in the Konkan belt, Shravan, the fifth month of the Hindu calendar, is considered the most holy and is celebrated by way of several festivals and fairs. It is during this period that Goa, which is also a part of the Konkan region, turns verdant and cool, thanks to the monsoon. What better setting than this for the faithful to become one with God? Taking advantage of the soothing weather, members of several Hindu communities would converge to read scriptures based on the Ramayana and the Mahabharata. While these two epics were written in Sanskirt, excerpts from literary works such as ‘Bhaktivijay’, ‘Harivijay’ and ‘Pandavpratap’, that were penned in Marathi, were also extremely popular. But the religious scriptures weren’t merely read; their meaning was also explained to the younger generations through real life examples all in a bid to disseminate inner peace.  Rajaram Gosavi, a septuagenarian from Borde, Bicholim, is a seasoned reader and interpreter of Bhaktivijay, which was authored by a sage called Mahipati during the 17th century in Ahmednagar, Maharashtra. “This piece of literature arrived in Goa around two centuries ago through seers,” Gosavi, who continues to be invited especially to read the text to the faithful during Shravan, says. He forms part of the time-tested culture in the area that involves learned individuals visiting households to read scriptures and explain their meaning in simple and lucid language. Apart from enlightening the faithful about the religion, the practise of reading and understanding scriptures fosters community participation and is an informal method of educating the masses on morals and humanitarian ideals. But, like several traditions, this one too seems to be dying a slow death with the disintegration of the joint family system and the deluge of modern forms of entertainment.  Tulshidas Raul from Sal, Bicholim, laments, “A quarter of a century ago, when the Bhaktivijay was read during Shravan, people from the vicinity would visit our house to participate. Today the joint family is broken and the rich tradition has ceased to exist in our household.”