SHIMLA: The Himachal Pradesh cabinet on Monday decided to hire 140 data entry operators on outsource basis and create 20 posts of junior office assistant (IT) to be filled on contract basis to ensure smooth implementation of the Unemployment Allowance Scheme 2017. The meeting was chaired by chief minister  .

 Before coming to power in 2012, the Congress manifesto had promised unemployment allowance to the educated youth. In his budget speech, he had announced the scheme under which an unemployed person having passed plus two from any board or university recognised by the state government and registered with any employment exchange as on date of application was eligible. The other conditions to be eligible for the allowance are that the annual financial income from all sources, including their spouses, for the financial years preceding the date of application should be less than two lakh, the age should be above 20 years and below 35 and the person should not have been dismissed from government service or convicted of any offence.
 
 The implementation of the Deen Dayal Upadhaya Gramin Kaushal Yojna under the National Rural Livelihood Mission was also okayed. It was also decided that concurrence of the state government for contributing 10 per cent share of the cost of the above scheme be given to the government of India and 15,000 youths would be trained and their placements ensured. 
 
 The cabinet also gave its nod for exempting 14 broad leave tree species from the purview of the   Forest Produce Transit (Land Routes) Rules 2014 for ease of doing business. People could now use these varieties for their own use. The approval was given for draft policy for managing lantana on forest lands by involving various stake holders, including private entrepreneurs, industrialists, NGOs, youth clubs and   with a view to increasing grazing lands for enhancing the livelihood of rural population.
 
 It was also decided to strengthen legal support system in the forest department by creating a post of deputy district attorney in the office of principal chief conservator of forest. It was also decided to constitute state food commission under the National Food Security Act, 2013, with a chairperson and five members, including two non-officials.
 
