TRICHY: Residents of several localities in   resorted to protest and road blockades against the shortage and irregular supply of drinking water for the last 15 days, here on Thursday. They alleged that former ward councillors are taking away the water distributed by the corporation in tanker lorries meant for people. 

 According to the residents of   and adjacent areas located on the foot hills of Rockfort, they have not been receiving drinking water regularly for the last 15 days, which has forced the people, particularly the women, wandering in and around the areas in search of drinking water. 
 
 Irate by the current scenario, around hundred women from the area gathered at Sarukku Parai with empty pots and started to raise slogans against corporation officials and demanded sufficient water regularly.
 
 Despite the court order to disconnect a pipeline to   area, so that residents of Sarukku Parai would get the required water, corporation officials continue to disobey the court’s order, they alleged. Since the area is full of commercial establishments, they were using motorised pumps to draw water leaving residents with empty pots, they added. 
 
 The protesting women also alleged that the water distributed by the corporation in tanker lorries have not been properly supplied to the needy people. Instead, some influential persons straight away take the entire water from the tanker lorries for their homes.
 
 Corporation assistant executive engineer Narasingamoorthi, who rushed there on information, held talks with the protesters. He assured them of regular and sufficient water. Disconnecting process from the commercial establishments would also done with immediate effect, the officials added. Following this, protesters dispersed. 
 
 Similar protest was also held at the  , nearby to Sarukku Parai, pressing the same demand. They alleged that they were facing   for many days. They also even blocked the road for some time. Assistant commissioner of police for Fort Srinivasa Perumal arrived there with his team and pacified the residents. 
 
