PUNE: The ongoing   has been taken advantage of by many as they swap the cards of those in dire need of   for a 'cut'. 

 A   from Dhole Patil Road said he comes across such people almost everyday.
 
 "Around a month ago, I used to see 8-10 well-dressed working professionals almost everyday who would request to 'swap' card transactions for cash. The deal is simple - if they want Rs 1,000 cash, they ask us to swipe their debit cards for Rs 1,200 or Rs 1,300. They ask us to give them Rs 1,000 in valid notes and let us to keep the rest as commission," the man, who refused to be named, said.
 
 Autorickshaw driver Yogesh Gaikwad was entering a petrol pump at Wagholi for a refill when his passenger stopped him to enquire about his payment method.
 
 "When I said I was going to pay by cash, he pleaded that I use his card to pay and give him the cash. Initially I declined, but the man insisted and showed me his nearly empty wallet. He was paying my fare via Ola money, so I had to agree. This is the third time that I got such a request," Yogesh told TOI.
 
 While Yogesh was decent enough to give cash to the man without asking for a cut, Ram Singh, another autorickshaw driver plying around Koregaon Park said he means business and wants additional income.
 
 "On two occasions, people have asked me for cash against card payment at petrol pumps and I ensured that I fill up my tank more than I desired to. Just a fortnight ago, I had picked up a person from Kalyaninagar and was en route to Koregaon Park when he offered me the same. So, I gave him Rs 600 in cash, while I filled up fuel worth Rs 800 from his card. If there is profit, why not take it? I know about some shops which are earning quite a sum by swiping cards," Singh pointed out.
 
 Sanath Rane, who collects cash at a Kalyaninagar petrol pump said he has a tough job. "Every day people come with weird ideas. For cash worth Rs 2,500, they are ready to pay Rs 500 more at times. They say that we cashiers can manage the accounts easily. I have, however, refused them as it is illegal. I have seen people paying by cards for fuel even when they are in an autorickshaw. I don't interfere as long as things are straight," Rane said.
 
 Ansh Kambli, a student preparing for a competitive examination said, "Many of my friends have told me that 'swapping' is easy. But my father sends me a limited amount of money and I cannot pay more to get cash even if I want to. Conditions are tough though," he said.
 
 
