BHOPAL: Member of Parliament Murli   expressed concern for students dreaming of working in countries like the US, especially in wake of temporary immigration ban announced by President  . Joshi was speaking during the convocation of Barkatullah University at Gyan Vigyan Bhawan, on Monday. On the occasion, Governor OP Kohli conferred D.Sc degree on Joshi while handing over graduation, post graduation and PhD degrees to meritorious students.

 Citing the example of Prof Maulana Barkatullah, who was the first prime minister of the provisional government of India established on December 1, 1875 in Kabul, Joshi said, “Students who have the opportunity to work outside should grab that opportunity. However, it has become little problematic after recent announcement by Trump. There is a global concern which needs to be addressed. Nevertheless, students should not miss out on the opportunity to make the country proud like others have done in the past.”
 
 Joshi said that the progress of any country depends on its civilization and culture. “Today’s scenario is different. Small countries of the world are moving forward speedily. Many countries which gained independence along with us have taken giant strides in development. This is a matter of concern and needs to be deliberated,” said Joshi. He asked students to make efforts so that India will once again become Vishva Guru.
 
 In his address, Kohli said that students are future of the country and have the potential and strength to change a country into a developed nation. He added: “It is unfortunate that our country which got freedom seven decades ago is still among the developing countries.”
 
 He suggested that stress should be laid on quality of higher education so that universities in Madhya Pradesh can gain global rank. “We are living in an era of globalisation where there is intense competition. If we wish to etch our identity at the global level, then our youths will have to go for innovations and creativity as per these competitions,” he said.
 
 Vice-chancellor Prof. M.D. Tiwari welcomed the guests and threw light on the activities of the university. Principal secretary to Governor M. Mohan Rao and others were present.
 
 
