THRISSUR: Aadhaar enrolment services in the state are likely to be hit as employees manning the   centres have decided to go on a three-day strike from Tuesday. Employees are protesting against  's (UIDAI) directive to capture the image of the iris of persons, who are engaged in enrolment services, in each Aadhaar form. 

 Leaders of Akshaya state committee, affiliated to association of IT Employees (CITU), said this condition posed a major health risk as capturing the iris image involves passing of high-intensity infrared rays. Till recently, operators only had to affix their fingerprint in the enrolment forms.
 
 As per the latest order issued by UIDAI on May 1 the operators have to capture the image of their iris on each form. Apparently, this is being done to track the identity of the employee who had provided the enrolment service. But frequent exposure to high-intensity infrared rays was causing major health problems, they claimed. "Many of them have reported problems like sleep loss, watering and irritation," said A D Jayan, general secretary of the association.
 
 UIDAI had insisted that the new condition must be enforced from May 16 and that is why we are going to strike work from Tuesday, said  , state secretary of the Akshaya wing of the association. 
 
 He said of the 2,900 Akshaya centres in the state, 1,000 centres were engaged in Aadhaar enrolment services. Each centre enrols 30 to 50 people and at least three trials were required to fully verify an application. This would mean that each operator will have to expose his eyes to infrared rays 90 to 150 times each day. And in most of the cases they stop working after enrolling 10 persons as they develop eye problems, Deepak said.
 
 Jayan pointed out that this new condition was being introduced citing security reasons. But as per UIDAI's own figures, nearly 99% of the people in Kerala have already enrolled for Aadhaar and how can we ignore the security concern in the case of those who have already enrolled, he asked.
 
 IT Mission director of   said that he was planning to talk to Akshaya operators and resolve the issue. "Of course, it is UIDAI that has imposed this condition, and at the state government-level we have a limited role. But we will certainly talk to them to find an amicable solution," he said.
 
 However, Deepak said that the association had already given a representation to UIDAI on May 6. "We have not yet received any response. If UIDAI does not amend the order after the strike, indefinite strike will be launched," he said.
 
