PANAJI: Faced with inadequate infrastructure and shortage of   professionals in the country, public health research organisation Sangath has turned to technology to bridge the gap between availability and requirement of psychiatrists and psychologists in the country.

  Sangath’s team of researchers are exploring technology such as smartphone applications, SMS and web applications to have a wider reach.
 
 The organisation has initiated a new research project called IMPACT (IMProving ACcess through Tele-psychiatry) to test if patients can receive mental health treatment virtually.
 
 “One of the barriers to mental healthcare access is the vast geographical distances between the communities in which people reside and services which are predominantly based in large urban healthcare facilities. One way of overcoming this barrier is to use technology to increase the virtual access to specialist services,” consultant psychiatrist and project lead for IMPACT Abhijit   said.
 
 Statistics provided by the   (WHO) Mental Health Atlas indicate that India has 0.20 psychiatrists for every 10,000 people.
 
 Sangath proposes to connect rural public health centres (PHC) with mental health care professionals through video conferencing and the internet. 
 
 “Patients with mental health problems will not have to travel long distances to see the psychiatrist. They only have to visit their local PHC which will have a tele-psychiatry suite,” clinical psychologist and research fellow at Sangath, Urvita Bhatia said.
 
 Sangath is also addressing hazardous drinking among adolescents. To overcome the stigma and privacy concerns, Benedict Weobong has started a project using text messages to counsel youth who are vulnerable to alcohol abuse. Weobong, a   intermediate Research Fellow, spearheads the project called Power Text.
 
 “Particularly for adolescents and young adults, technology is both a cool thing and a preferred medium as it reduces the stigma associated with traditional face-to-face counselling. Such an approach is likely to be particularly effective in tackling taboo topics like adolescent sexual health and drinking behavior,” Weobong said.
 
 The researchers however also point out that caution needs to be exercised while using technology to deliver treatment.
 
 “Although technology has the potential of being a game changer in healthcare delivery, its use and impact needs to be rigorously assessed using sound scientific evaluation,” Nadkarni said.
 
