New Delhi: Around 500 students and teachers of St Stephen’s College carried out a “silent protest” on the campus against the administration’s proposal seeking   for the institution. The protesters held placards, terming it a “hasty” decision and claimed this would have an adverse impact on the quality of education at the college. 

 However, the college governing body (GB) went ahead with the decision and passed a resolution on the matter of autonomy. Four GB members had opposed the move. Many teachers were peeved at for not being consulted by principal John Varghese before taking the decision. 
 
 On Friday, students and 30 teachers had submitted a joint petition to the GB, asking for “compliance with the principle of democratic procedure and informed consensus among all stakeholders on any decision concerning the question of the college’s autonomy”. The students argued that the decision would “fundamentally alter the character of the college”. However, Varghese issued a statement, saying that “autonomy will deliver higher standards of excellence through new courses that will enhance employability of ours students”. 
 
 According to the teachers and the students, the principal had called a GB meeting on Saturday as “most of the students would be busy during the college fest and the announcement of the meeting was made during a sparsely attended morning assembly on a day, which was followed by a holiday and a weekend”.
 
 This, they believe, was at a time when “most students, faculty, and non-teaching   are preoccupied in a manner, which prevents them from registering any form of critical analysis and dissent.” 
 
 A third–year student, who did not wish to be named, alleged that the principal did not want to hear their pleas and misbehaved with many students. Many teachers levelled a similar allegation against the principal. One of the teachers claimed that the principal had issued a gag order, warning them against speaking to the media.
 
 In November 2016, the   had issued a notification on the provision for autonomy. A committee seeking autonomy or university status was formed by the DU administration on February 6. Along with St Stephen’s, other colleges applying for autonomy are Shri Ram College for Commerce (SRCC), Hindu College, Sri Venkateswara College and Hans Raj College.
 
 If these colleges attain autonomy, they will no longer be part of DU and will be able to take decisions pertaining to framing of a syllabus and fee structure on their own.
 
 
