BHUBANESWAR: Since the party's formation in 1997, the BJD's fortune has only been on the rise. Then came the split from the BJP, but even that could not dent the popularity of   government. But for the first time the BJD seems to be in a spot of bother and giving it trouble is its one-time partner. 

 While on paper the results after the first phase of panchayat election may not be devastating, but it is bound to bring creases to Naveen's forehead. The BJD still has a clear lead, bagging more than 100 of the 188 seats that went to polls in the first phase. But it is far less than the 154 it had got in the first round in 2012 (overall it had won 651 of the 854 seats then). 
 
 What's more worring was the fact that the party suffered in many of its traditional strongholds like Cuttack, Kendrapada, Keonjhar and Kalahandi districts even as the BJP made tremendous progress by bagging around 60 seats, far more than the total 36 seats it got in 2012.
 
 On Tuesday, Naveen skipped office, sparking speculation of him being upset with the result. Populist schemes like one kg rice at Re 1, launched ahead of 2014 election, was cited as a major winner for Naveen when he bagged 117 of the 147 assembly seats. 
 
 In similar vein, Naveen launched a number of schemes in the run up to the ongoing rural polls - Aahar (through which cooked meal is provided for Rs 5), Niramaya (free medicines in government hospitals),   (concrete houses for rural poor) and   (a four-lane highway connecting many inaccessible pockets in the state), farm loan at 1% and loan to self-help groups at 1%. While it is still early days of the panchayat election, as four more phases are to be conducted, but signs are there that the magic may not be working effectively.
 
 BJD insiders attributed the lesser number of seats to the party's infighting. "Since we have been in power for so long, we have too many aspirants for each post. It's a price we have to pay. Those not getting seats worked overtime to ensure the defeat of the rival faction," a senior BJD leader and minister observed.
 
 Many in the party also pointed out to Naveen not campaigning ahead of the first phase as a reason for the slide. 
 
