NEW DELHI: Heavy snowfall in the western   has been making news since early last month but its distribution across the three hill states has been far from uniform. Rain/snow data for January reveals that while snowfall smashed records in J&K and was way above normal in  , it remained below average in  .

 Five weather stations in J&K broke precipitation records for the month, with Srinagar receiving its heaviest January snow since 1930. Kupwara, Kokernag, Banihal and Bhaderwah smashed records for January as the state as a whole received 255mm of precipitation, over 2.5 times higher than normal.
 
 Himachal Pradesh too was wetter than usual with 70% above-par rain/snow.
 
 Uttarakhand, by contrast, was much drier. The state had a 31% rain shortfall in January. The state Met department’s solitary snow gauge, located at Mukteshwar in  , registered 203mm of snow through the month — higher than the previous two years but much lower than the 533mm recorded in January 2014.
 
 Met officials attributed the depressed winter rains in Uttarakhand to a peculiar pattern of this January’s western disturbances (WDs) — low-pressure systems coming from southern Europe that bring cold and wet winds to north India. “The moisture flow of these WDs was mainly directed towards J&K and Himachal.
 
 By the time the systems reached Uttarakhand, they had weakened considerably,” said Ravinder Vishen, head of IMD’s Regional Weather Forecasting Centre. 
 
 Four to five WDs are considered normal for January.
 
 This year, the month saw five. The most intense of these struck around Republic Day, and also brought widespread rain to the northern plains, including Delhi. WDs have continued in February, with another expected from February 14 onward.
 
 Snowfall in the hills is important for water recharge and soil moisture.
 
 More crucially, heavy winter snowfall feeds Himalayan glaciers, arresting their retreat and resulting in good water flows in rivers during the summers. Late-season snowfall may also delay forest fires. “A heavy snow year can delay summer-melting of glaciers by up to a month.
 
 Poor snowfall, on the other hand, causes faster retreat of these glaciers,” said D P Dobhal, a glaciologist at the Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology at Dehradun.
 
 
 
 
