PANAJI: A clash between Indian football’s traditional rivals Goa and Bengal does not evoke the same emotions like in the past when a disallowed goal meant a boycott and failure, like in 1996 at home for Goa, plunged the state into mourning.
 
  These are the times we live in. Times when the National Football Championship for the Santosh Trophy has lost its charm and relevance. So, as the arch-rivals square up again for another final showdown at the   in Bambolim on Sunday, hardly anyone is losing sleep.
  
  Not the players -- a mix of I-League rejects and rookies – and certainly not the organizers who are fine with a capacity of just 5,000 for the final. There was a time when Santosh Trophy was the pinnacle of football in India; now it’s a mere fixture that needs to be completed.
  
  There are some, though, for whom the Santosh Trophy still has value. Bengal coach Mridul Banerjee, for one, is among them.
  
  “The Santosh Trophy may not be as charming as before but it still enjoys a good status. It’s India’s National football championship,” said Mridul, formerly coach of India’s Pre-Olympic teams.
  
  Bengal are attempting to win the Santosh Trophy for the 32nd time, though now with a team that is bereft of any stars. In fact, Bengal does not have a single player who has played in a national championship at any level, forget the Indian Super League (ISL) or I-League, India’s premier football competition.
  
  Despite all that, Bengal have not conceded a goal in 480 minutes of open play – thanks to goalkeeper Sankar Roy – and, given their dominating performance in the goalless draw against Goa earlier in the group stage, should enjoy the upper hand in the final.
  
  Goa will have ambitions of its own. For a state that is undergoing turbulence for a while and has lost its status as an important player at the national level, the Santosh Trophy can provide succour.
  
  “Everyone says that the tournament has lost its charm but we are representing Goan football here and the aim is to be National champions. Victory will make everyone happy. We have to show that when it comes to football, Goa cannot be left behind,” said coach Mateus Costa.
  
  Costa has been part of the I-League with Dempo SC and   in the past. In fact, Goa has nine players – the maximum – with I-League experience but it will be a rookie striker,  , who provides Goa with the biggest hope. The   striker scored both goals in Goa’s semifinal win over favourites Kerala and will have to break his duck against Bengal if Goa has to add to its five National triumphs.
  
  Against Bengal, who are yet to concede a goal, it won’t be easy. History too favours Bengal, who have lost just once in the eight finals played between these two giants of Indian football, and won the last time – defeating Goa – when the tournament was played on Goan soil.
  
  Change, it is said is the only constant, and the task is now Goa’s to make sure that history doesn’t repeat itself in front of their own impassioned fans.
 
