INDORE:   Cricket Association officials are busy sprucing up the   Stadium after hosting two Indian Premier League matches on April 8 and 10. Over 1000 seats were damaged or completely broken after the two IPL matches. 

 The excited fans during the matches were seen jumping and standing on the chairs leading to a number of broken chairs at the stadium. 
 
 The stadium witnessed a turn-out of over 25,000 people on both the days of the matches. 
 
 “We are now used to this kind of damage. We have a mechanism to work on these aspects. After the first match also many chairs were broken so our team began the repair work from 8 pm on the same day and continued the work on April 9 as well,” said   chief operating officer  . 
 
 The cost of one chair at the stadium is approximately Rs 450 and more than 1000 chairs have been damaged that were repaired or changed. 
 
 However, not only the chairs, even the toilets and stairs at the stadium have been damaged by the thousands present at the stadium for the two matches. 
 
 “It’s not the first time that the stadium’s property was damaged after match, we are used to it now and we had anticipated such situation,” added Pandit. 
 
 Apart from the damage, the fans left the stadium with tonnes of garbage including water pouches, food wrappers, cold drink cans and bottles and much more. 
 
 Over 100 trucks full of garbage was removed from the stadium in the last five days beginning from a day before the match, said the officials. 
 
 The impact of these two matches was such that an additional housekeeping team of over 60-70 members was thoroughly scrubbing and washing the stadium on Wednesday as well. 
 
 Restoration work will be completed in a day or two then the stadium will be ready for the last match as well, said Pandit, talking to TOI. 
 
 IMC workers were also involved in maintaining the cleanliness at the surrounding areas of the stadium. “Even after the match, the surrounding and main road was cleaned-up by the IMC workers and they have been helpful throughout in maintaining cleanliness before and after the match,” said Pandit. 
 
 
