Mumbai: Late-night   on Mumbai’s suburban rail network will have to reschedule their travel timings as both Central Railway and Western Railway are planning to undertake several   around   for speedy completion of foot over-bridge ( ) projects. A block is a duration during which trains do not run on a specific stretch so that authorities can carry out maintenance and infrastructure work.

 Railway minister Piyush Goyal, who held marathon meetings with officials spread over 20 hours on Friday and Saturday, announced that the foot over-bridges, which were earlier under the category of passenger amenities, have now been labelled as safety projects.
 
 A senior official who was present at the meeting told TOI: “Midnight blocks on the suburban network will become a regular feature as FOB work has been given the topmost   after the Elphinstone Road tragedy.”
 
 A large number of commuters, especially those working on night shifts, use late-night services.
 
 “Contractors do not get much time to complete projects swiftly as they have to work on a running system. When the minister was told about the problems and the need for blocks, he assured us of full support,” he added. Work cannot be carried out in the wee hours too as long-distance trains start arriving early. Until now, authorities were hesitant to take frequent blocks around midnightduring the week, fearing commuter backlash.
 
 The official said, “Because of the block, some services may be cancelled and diverted from slow corridor to fast corridor and vice versa. Commuters who take trains from stations where only slow trains halt may be inconvenienced. Also, some trains may have to short-terminated or cancelled.”
 
 A WR official said, “There will not be much of a hardship. Trains will definitely run, but with some changes like cancellations and change of corridor. But this is a small price to pay as the minister has rightly set a target. More and wider FOBs will mean there will faster dispersal of commuters.”
 
 In 2016, WR had planned an FOB at the tragedy spot and was about to float tenders for another 12m-wide FOB by extending the platform towards the north at Elphinstone Road. This FOB was to connect Parel on CR. The project, however, had got stuck as CR could not freeze the design for Parel yard remodelling.
 
