KOLKATA: A section of city doctors has started looking at life beyond the 89-year-old  . They have started banding together under new groups or groups that have been largely defunct or moribund, trying to forge an online unity after feeling let down by the state’s biggest doctors’ organisation.

 Doctors for Democracy, along with medical groups and individual doctors, including many associated with the  , are planning a convention themed, “Doctors in jeopardy and patients in crisis”, to start a movement against the West Bengal Clinical Establishment (Registration and Transparency) Act, 2017.
 
 IMA’s Bengal chapter is in no way involved with this event. Shantanu Sen,   secretary, told TOI on Thursday: “We support the new law wholeheartedly. This is absolutely necessary. IMA has 3 lakh members. Our organisation is absolutely of the doctors, for the doctors and by the doctors. It’s apolitical and never hesitates to support any pro-people endeavour of the government or oppose any anti-doctor decision of any government.”
 
 Shantanu Sen, Indian Medical Association Bengal secretary, said no platform in the medical fraternity can be larger than the IMA, which has 3 lakh members.
 
 But some of his fellow IMA members are not convinced. Fuad Halim, former associate editor of ‘Your Health’, the oldest journal published by IMA, asked, “Why wasn’t the IMA called when the bill was drafted?”
 
 ENT surgeon  , who’s trying to forge an online unity against the new health law, said: “Doctors can’t be made to work under threat. No amount of legislation can build trust, which is built by minutes, hours and days a doctor and patient spend together.”
 
 These doctors believe the bill unfairly includes medical negligence under criminal jurisprudence. “Time to think beyond IMA and start fending for ourselves,” said S K Mohalanabis, a member of the 8,000-strong Facebook-based West Bengal Doctors’ Forum. Its administrators claim that 1,609 doctors joined them in the last fortnight ever since the idea of amending the Clinical Establishment Act, 2010, came into circulation.
 
 The forum’s FB status reads: “Doctors are humiliated everyday totally out-powered. To broadcast the truth to the public we need courage and courage comes through unity. We are most exploited as we are isolated. Here we will exchange our issues and be a support to every doctor from Bengal irrespective of government or corporate or self-employed. Let us join hands … before it is too late (sic).”
 
 Some city doctors have joined hands with fora outside the state, like “Let doctors treat the patient stress-free” and “Save doctors”. The latter, formed by Nashik-based oncologist  , is about to take up the new law at the national level.
 
 
