KOLKATA: Next time you dine out, get ready to pay less. You may choose not to pay the  , even though restaurants in Kolkata have decided to ignore the Union consumer affairs ministry’s advisory to withdraw the amount. Instead, they have chosen to offer an   in case a customer refuses to pay the charge.

 Foregoing the service charge would deprive their staff of a legitimate income, the restaurants have argued. The latter have acted under an instruction from the Hotel and Restaurants Association of Eastern India (HRAEI) that has asked its members not to insist on service charge in case customers refuse to pay. “The consumer affairs ministry guideline is still an advisory and not a law. So we are not legally bound to follow it. But we don’t want customers to leave dissatisfied either. So, in case one chooses not to pay it, we are not going to levy the charge. But the charge will not be foregone from the bill. Customers will be offered a discount,” said Sudesh Poddar, president of HRAEI.
 
 While most restaurants in Kolkata don’t levy it, some do impose a 10% to 20% service charge. Prominent among them are Chillie’s, Café Mezzuna, Oh! Calcutta and several fast food chains. Customers often complain that they are being made to pay for the service even if they are not happy with it. 
 
 “The difference is a substantial one. Why should I be forced to pay a fixed amount for something which has not pleased me?,” said Raj Bakshi, an entrepreneur who dines at restaurants every weekend.
 
 Restaurants in Kolkata are split on the issue. While some believe the charge should be optional, others believe it’s a legitimate one and should be compulsory. The HRAEI has argued that it allows smaller restaurants to pay an additional amount to their staff members. “Not all can afford to pay the waiters, maintenance staff and kitchen employees handsomely. This allows them to compensate these people. Also, a business enterprise should have the freedom to decide how it’s going to conduct business and what charges it’s going to levy. This is an infringement upon that right,” said Poddar.
 
 The HRAEI, however, has instructed all restaurants to prominently display the service charge. Poddar claimed that most complied and have stopped insisting on it. The policy of offering discounts, he said, will continue till the advisory turns into a law. “We shall take a call after it becomes a law,” he said.
 
 It will be unfair and could spell disaster for a large number of smaller restaurants across the state, felt Hrishi Bajoria, owner of Chillie’s, which levies a 10% service charge. 
 
 “We are not deleting it from the bill, but aren’t insisting on the charge either, in case a customer refuses to pay. An equivalent discount is being offered. In effect, we are taking the hit for the sake of our employees who deserve to be paid well. But fortunately, less than 1% of our customers have refused to pay so far. This shows that the majority are actually in favour of a service charge,” said Bajoria.
 
 Some restaurants have decided to put it on record if customers refuse to pay. The words “service charge refused” was scribbled on bills at a restaurant last weekend. It is unfair, felt a Park Street restaurant-owner. “Customers shouldn’t be forced to pay multiple taxes. The accent should actually be on efficient service that would encourage the patrons to offer generous tips,” he said.
 
 
