NAGPUR: Continuing its crackdown against controversial lawyer  , the Nagpur bench of Bombay   on Thursday issued a non-bailable   (NBW) against him to secure his appearance on February 27 at 10.30am.

 While rejecting his application for exemption from personal appearance, a bench of Justice Prasanna Varale and Justice Zaka Haq warned Uke of continuing with contempt proceedings if he failed to comply with the directives. On Wednesday, the court had asked him why he shouldn’t be punished for calculated design of bench hunting. The charge was added late in the evening while making corrections in the order copy regarding second suo motu contempt plea initiated against him.
 
 According to judges, by filing new criminal applications against them and asking them to recuse from the hearing, Uke had created a situation that the bench was not in a position to proceed with hearing which was nothing but obstructing the administration of justice.
 
 After initial denial, the respondent filed a vakalatnama and roped in four lawyers including Bijoy Adhikari practising in Supreme Court, CV Joveson, BS Verma and M Dixit. The first two were present during the hearing and informed they were entrusted with the case on Wednesday evening.
 
 Joveson pleaded that since the case was entrusted to him just a few hours back and he woke up at midnight to catch early morning flight, he should be granted more time to read and prepare arguments. However, the judges made it clear they had already granted opportunity to the respondent on February 1 to engage a lawyer if he wanted and it was made clear to him that hearing wouldn’t be adjourned on the pretext that lawyer was engaged recently.
 
 “Uke appeared and argued the matter on February 8 and 22 and in the midst of hearing this request has come. Expressing our displeasure, in the interests of justice we grant time till February 27,” the judges said while turning down Joveson’s request.
 
 The judges apprised him that even court staff worked till 9.30pm for uploading Wednesday’s order and went home only after ensuring it was on the net. “Even we stayed till 7pm making corrections, so that the respondent should know exactly about charges framed against him. If he had remained present and sought time, we would have accepted it. But this is not the way,” they observed.
 
 While issuing NBW against  , a resident of Parvati Nagar, the judges asked additional public prosecutor Ketki Joshi to convey their order to police station concerned. “If he avoids execution of the warrant and fails to remain present next Monday, we will have to pass orders forfeiting the security (Rs2 lakh) deposited by him with the registry,” they warned. 
 
 Lawyers close to Uke informed he had gone to Mumbai for seeking an appointment with the chief justice where his applications were pending and therefore couldn’t remain present in the hearing. As directed by the court, the proceedings were videographed and the courtroom was packed to capacity for second consecutive day.
 
 
