AURANGABAD: The   of the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) on Friday gave its approval for various civic projects worth Rs 93 crore.

 Standing committee chairman   approved proposals for roads, buying new vehicles for solid waste management department and developing drainage line in various localities, among other projects.
 
 The civic body would soon add eight tippers and six jetting machines in its fleet of vehicles deployed for handling garbage. Recently, the civic body added 50 hydraulic autorickshaws in its fleet of garbage handling vehicles as it was running short of tippers.
 
 The standing committee also approved projects planned under  . The civic administration has proposed to construct a concrete road in Rohidaspura and has allotted Rs 25.35 lakh for the same.
 
 In Bhimnagar, the authorities are looking ahead to build drainage lines at various spots for which the civic body has proposed to spend Rs 38.57 lakh. In  , the AMC will construct a bridge for which a fund of Rs 45.19 lakh has been approved.
 
 Resurfacing of tar road in  , involving total expenditure of Rs 32.36 lakh, was also approved by the standing committee. Similarly, proposals of roads in Asefiya Colony, Builders Housing Society, Kiradpura, Chikhalthana and   among other localities were also approved.
 
 Apart from this, the committee also approved administration’s proposal of building a new school building on an open space in Ranchoddas Girni area involving an expenditure of Rs 48.49 lakh.
 
 For development of a garden in Cidco Dyneshwar, the committee approved a proposal of Rs 29.39 lakh. Proposal for construction of a primary health centre was also approved by Meghawale.
 
 Meanwhile, sources in the municipal body told TOI that most of the proposals were pending because of non-availability of funds.
 
 “In March, the civic body receives significant amount of money as taxes. Thus it can spare money for developmental projects. Moreover, the Friday’s standing committee could be the last meeting of the current financial year. Hence, the administration placed as many proposals before the committee as it could,” said the sources. 
 
 
