Nagpur: Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Tuesday, granted an interim stay on FIR lodged by Thane Police against three   from the city, for allegedly tampering with the chip in dispenser machine.

 A division bench comprising justices Anoop Mohta and Murlidhar Giratkar issued notices to the state government through police station officer at Mandpada in Thane and senior PI of crime division there, asking them to reply before November 11.
 
 Petitioners — Rajesh Wankhede of SS Automobiles, Vinod Armarkar of Samarth Yogiraj Petroleum and Dadarao Mangle of Dhanashree Auto centre — prayed for calling all records pertaining to FIR lodged at Manpada Police Station in Thane and quash it. 
 
 They were booked for offences punishable under Sections 265, 267, 420, 465 of IPC, Sections 3, 7, 8 and 9 of the Essential Commodities Act and Section 3 (6) of Motor Spirit and High Speed Diesel Order (Regulation of Supply, Distribution and Prevention of Malpractices), 2005.
 
 The petitioners through senior counsel Anil Mardikar, Gaurav Belsare, Pankaj Navlani and Kunal Nalamwar, also prayed for directives to the respondents from taking any coercive action against them. 
 
 In raids conducted by the crime branch in July, dispensers at several petrol pumps were found to be equipped with tampered integrated circuits, which dispensed a lesser quantity of fuel to the customers. Since then, FIRs have been lodged against over 100 petrol pump owners, including the petitioners. Their anticipatory bail applications were pending with the Kalyan Sessions Court.
 
 Wankhede and Armarkar are dealers for Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL) while Mangle is having agency of Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL). Interestingly, Wankhede had stopped operation of his outlet since May this year, still raids were conducted on it.
 
 The petitioners highlighted the Legal Metrology (General) Rules, 2011, which prescribed a highly detailed procedure for verification of equipment at pumps. They submitted copies of reports of routine inspections conducted by HPCL and IOCL where no objections were found in functioning of pumps.
 
 They argued that the matter revolved around the Legal Metrology Act, 2009, as provisions of the IPC and CrPC are excluded in punishment of its violations. The charges drawn against them has no legal basis as Section 51 of Metrology Act states that IPC and CrPC do not apply to offences made under the act.
 
 
