NAGPUR: While the   at national level is suggesting the concept of ‘virtual clinics’ wherein doctors can see patients from distant places using technology, Nagpur IMA branch is still studying the pros and cons of the subject. It is yet to take a stand for or against the concept as it involves a lot of legal intricacies and needs to be debated before accepting it in the interest of both, doctors and patients.

 National IMA secretary Dr K K Agrawal told TOI that virtual clinics were the need of the hour considering shortage of doctors, especially specialists in various fields who are not available in rural places. “Virtual clinics can be a good solution. Care has to be taken that the doctor attending patients online through other doctors must have an established relationship with that doctor. It means the treating doctor in the   should have known the patient for some time, the two have a relationship of faith. This can’t be done for totally new patients,” said Dr Agrawal.
 
 Virtual clinics also warrant that the patient first pays the doctor online. This will ensure the doctor provides his expert opinion and consultation online. “If I am out of station, I will still be bound to see the reports and assess the condition and respond accordingly. This has limitations of not being able to see patients who need physical examination. Those having acute problems of pain, fever, injury etc cannot be seen in virtual clinics. Patients who were suggested certain investigations and have come with reports can be seen,” said Dr Agrawal. Patients of chronic diseases like diabetes, cancer, AIDS etc can be treated through virtual clinics.
 
  president Dr Avinash Wase stated that the association was studying the concept and was still undecided on promoting it. “Though overall the proposal sounds well as it will allow doctors to reach more people. We should also consider the feasibility. A big concern is the medico-legal aspect. If anything goes wrong as result of wrong diagnosis, the doctor can be in real trouble. Cases that require physical examination cannot be taken in virtual clinics. There are also issues of record keeping, safety of both the patient and the doctor,” he said.
 
 Supporting him is the former IMA President Dr   who is more concerned about the limitation associated with consultations through virtual clinics. “Though through virtual clinics doctors can reach more patients, it can be a more affordable option for patients staying in far off places. It is good for follow up patients rather than new patients. “Biggest hurdle is the issue of diagnosis going wrong. Hence IMA needs to analyse the issue in great depth before accepting the idea,” he said.
 
 Dr Nikhade also felt there should be national guidelines on the subject. “In countries where virtual clinics are followed only certain licensed doctors are using them. A doctor would generally prescribe very broad spectrum drug for even specific symptoms as these can be associated with more than one disease. I personally feel it should be limited to just follow ups and small problems. There should be first a fool proof policy in place,” he said.
 
 Dr Y S Deshpande, president elect of  , however, is completely against virtual clinics. He said he believed it could be restricted to doctors practising in rural areas where there are no specialists. “Every consultation for a specialist opinion should be routed through the doctor alone and no service should be given to patient directly. This should be limited to opinion about test reports etc,” he said.
 
 “Yet, we are critically analysing it. There are more disadvantages with it in India than advantages. Prescribing any drug or dosage based on history is not advisable. It could be doctor Agrawal’s personal and futuristic view as national IMA has not come out with any directives as yet,” Dr Deshpande added.
 
 “Even leukaemia or blood cancer patient may come with simple symptom of fever. Hence even treating a fever may not be advisable without proper clinical diagnosis and tests. Doctors should not get into things that could result in misdiagnosis or missed diagnosis,” he said. 
 
