NEW DELHI: Food and consumer affairs minister   on Friday said his ministry does not want to fix the food portions served by hotels and restaurants, but it wants   to specify the exact quantity in their menus.

 Paswan told reporters that there is no plan to issue any advisory or to frame any law. He said government wants eateries to take necessary voluntary steps to reduce wastage of food items. He said his ministry is not sending any questionnaire to hotels and restaurants.
 
 “Our officials held consultation with representatives of hotels and restaurants associations. They welcome any move to check food wastage. They have trained their chefs and waiters. These representatives have told us they will take the issue of mentioning quantity in the menu to their boards soon,” the minister said.
 
 Reiterating that levying service charge by eateries and even mentioning it in the bill is illegal and it is an unfair trade practice, Paswan said his ministry has framed an advisory on the issue and has sent it to the prime minister’s office (PMO) for approval. Sources said backing of PMO will help the ministry take forward its consumer-friendly campaign against this unfair practice with states and the industry lobby.
 
 The ministry had issued an advisory to states earlier. The new one will be more detailed and will be handy for consumers and their organisations to put strong case against eateries in consumer forums.
 
 On the issue of dual MRP charged for packaged water bottle, Paswan said American MNC Pepsico has already informed his ministry that the company will have one MRP for its bottled water Aquafina in airports and outside. He cited this as a success of his ministry’s consumer awareness campaign.
 
 The minister said even cricket associations will ensure the price of bottled water is same inside the stadium as it is outside. TOI on February 23 had first reported that Board of Cricket and Control in India has issued a circular to all cricket associations to comply with this order.
 
 
