Here is one more restaurant that focuses on everything except food (alas!). It offers a cocktail of gigs, karaoke, live music and of course, cocktails. It was the perfect venue to celebrate two birthdays. Lively bubbly award-winning columnist Pooja Bedi (whose Happy soul workshops combine science and spirituality) shares her birthday with the healer extraordinaire  . It was a celebration of positive energy in more ways than one. Ell is an energy intuit and reader, a spiritual counsellor and mentors corporates, too. Her husband Yezad, a senior loss adjuster, specialising in fire and media, joined in as did  , who along with Meher not only practices the unique non-invasive effective allergy elimination technique but also, they are off to the cutting edge institute in Los Angeles to keep abreast of international advances. We ended the evening by the birthday girls cutting the brilliant chef and patisseur Pratik Deshmukh’s creative and delicious three-tiered heart-shaped cakes. The café allows bringing in your own cake.

 
 Wedged into the crowded, crammed Todi Mills compound, the Café’s high-ceilinged large space is a pleasant surprise. Tiled floor, abandoned-factory pillars and wooden slats complete the décor.
 
 
 
 Long winding predictable menu. From pizzas to parathas and everything in between. We ate our way through the menu and can wholeheartedly recommend the well-made dips (mint mayo, etc), which were served with a lot of the dishes. Happily, even the spicy Chorizo Pao and the deep-fried Scotch Eggs were worth trying. As were the well-made parathas.
 
 
 
 Chewy steak, soggy Fish in Lemon Butter, floppy Pizza, a Carrot Cake that is not a Carrot Cake... what’s going on? Puffy with cream Banoffee and Tiramisu. Deep-fried all-American veg platter. Music was loud. The service was slow. And I’m not listing all we ate. There’s no point.
 
 
 Go to this new import from Delhi for its gigs, karaoke and such like. Don’t go if good food is what you’re looking for. It serves up every predictable multi-cuisine dish you could think of, also plies you with drinks and cocktails. Maybe it hopes we’ll be too drunk and won’t know the difference between good and bad food? Sorry! We’re sober! 
 
