Shimla: Tourists and residents are getting annoyed due to everyday traffic chaos in Shimla while Shimla Municipal Corporation’s (SMC) proposal of tunnels, ropeways and bypasses under Shimla City Mobility Plan is lying buried under files only from last two years and now SMC has expressed its helplessness over plan’s implementation.

 Shimla resident Anil Kumar said he does not remember a single day when he has reached his destination without getting stuck in a traffic jam at one point or other. “Shimla’s traffic plans are over a century old and with increasing vehicles in the town, the authorities have not thought of bringing a plan to maintain traffic like in a developed city,” he added. 
 
 Totu Development Samiti president Nagender Gupta said in order to decongest roads of Shimla, overhead bridges and tunnels are required but even if these are not constructed, the traffic can easily be managed if some of the town’s sealed or restricted roads get opened for the use of common people.
 
 Shimla BJP MLA Suresh Bhardwaj has appealed from the Central government to approve the plans of bringing overhead bridges in Shimla at Tuti Kandi, Fagli and Khalini, and also to implement the previous pending tunnel constructions in the town. 
 
 Shimla mayor Sanjay Chauhan said that to get funds from big agencies, the state government has to send proposal to the Centre. Around two years back, SMC had proposed a city mobility plan of Rs 6,500 crores to the ministry of economic affairs and urban development who had asked SMC to reduce the budget. SMC immediately waved off the plan’s budget to 1,120 crores. But, even after a long span, the plan has not received approval of the Centre. “Getting funds was not a problem for us as the World Bank and other agencies had agreed to give us sufficient funds after a meeting held in 2014,” he added.
 
 He said in the revised city mobility plan, two tunnels are proposed – a 635m-long tunnel from Lakkar Bazaar to Lift and other is 1,170m-long tunnel from Lift to Chhota Shimla. Besides tunnels, the bypass from Tara Devi to Mashobra will be constructed and some ropeways, parks and pedestrians too are proposed.
 
 
