LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh chief minister   Yadav staged a virtual coup, dislodging his father   Singh Yadav and installing himself as the Samajwadi Party national president at an “emergency convention” on Sunday.

 While this caps three months of acrimonious manoeuvres and counter-manoeuvres, with the two sides claiming that this would not lead to a split, Sunday’s developments have torn the party asunder with two separate entities, SP (Mulayam) and SP (Akhilesh) likely to contest the UP assembly elections. Although Mulayam indicated his willingness to fight, this cannot blur the fact that he is no longer the party boss. 
 
 The special convention called by Ram Gopal also moved two other proposals; one, Mulayam remain SP’s top leader; and, second,   be sacked from the primary membership of the party and   be removed as SP state president. Later, Naresh Uttam, an old Samajwadi, was appointed the state chief in his place. 
 
 Akhilesh took the precaution of not appearing to be ungrateful to his father by making Mulayam the ‘margdarshak’ or mentor, but this would hardly mask the fact that the party the 77-year-old former UP CM founded has gone out of his control.
 
 Mulayam showed he wasn’t ready to give up by sacking cousin Ram Gopal, who had called the meeting, for the third time in less than two months, and declared it “unconstitutional”. Mulayam then called his own national meet on January 5, possibly the last ‘dangal’ (bout) of his political career.
 
 In his first reaction to the events, Akhilesh tweeted: “Sometimes to protect the ones you love, you must make the right decision. What I did today was a tough decision but one that I had to take.”
 
 The convention, presided over by SP vice president Kiranmoy Nanda, a known Mulayam loyalist, was attended by other of his confidants: Naresh Agarwal, Reoti Raman Singh, Ahmed Hasan and Awdhesh Prasad. Nanda and Agarwal were later ‘expelled’ by Shivpal, who flashed a letter purportedly signed by Mulayam, for anti-party activities.
 
 Agarwal, however, said, “Mulayam Singh Yadav ji does not have the authority to sack me. He is no longer party president.”
 
 Later, in a dramatic turn of events, ‘Akhileshwadi’ (CM supporters) laid siege to the Samajwadi Party headquarters, bodily ousting Shivpal’s supporters from the office. Sources said a revamp of the national executive will also begin in two days. Akhilesh is tipped to nominate cousin and Lok Sabha MP Dharmendra Yadav to the national executive.
 
 According to Article 14(2) of the SP constitution, a special convention can be convened on the back of a demand for it by 40% or more members. Ram Gopal claimed this was the case. The SP constitution also permits a general secretary to convene such a convention, and says it should be led by party vice president -- in this case Kiranmoy Nanda -- in absence of the president.
 
 A senior party functionary said, “The SP constitution was written by   and there is no one who knows it better.” Sunday’s proceedings indicated both Akhilesh and Ram Gopal have put in months of preparation to execute the coup and used the social capital he earned -- a combination of power and popularity -- to his ultimate advantage.
 
 
