KOCHI: The Cial will be   area for arrivals and departures at their  , which will allow people accompanying passengers flying via the   indoors. 

 The visitors will have access to refreshment stores and a full-fledged food court from the air-conditioned facility. The two separate facilities at arrival and departure areas on two floors would be connected via an elevator.
 
 The area will also have a business centre and stores that sells handicrafts, books, fashion and condiments. 
 
 "The crowd we are looking for are people who accompany passengers to and from the airport. The visitors' area intends to provide them with a facility where they wait comfortably for the friends and family. They can grab a bite, visit the shops and keep themselves entertained," said Cial officials. He added that passengers departing from the airport might also use the new facility once it is open. 
 
 In the design for the visitors' area, they have also proposed an aquarium. "It is only part of the proposal. Once the facility is complete, we will have to evaluate whether it would hinder the airport's expansion plans or not. If it does not, then we will go ahead with it." 
 
 There will be seven eateries at the new terminal including the popular fast food joints. "It will be like a mall. Those who live in the in the area can come in with their families, spend the evening, visit the shops and have dinner," said George Dominic, CEO of Caterers and Flight Services (CAFS), the official concessionaire for food facilities at the airport. 
 
 He said that they are awaiting the completion of the construction. Once the construction of the facility is complete they will approach the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security for the clearance to operate the food joints. They expect the visitors' area to be operational by the end of June.
 
 Cial currently has a viewing gallery for visitors, allowing them to get a peek of the friends and family making their way into the airport. 
 
 Apart from the visitors' area, Cial will also open a new restaurant within the international airport, before the end of the month. The building will be shaped like a butterfly. The current airport restaurant, which is located at the parking facility will be demolished. Cial is planning a garden and   built at the location of the existing airport restaurant.
 
