KOLKATA: A   on Tuesday turned down the CBI’s plea to issue an arrest warrant against  , his wife Asha, party general secretary Roshan Giri and 19 others for the murder of All India Gorkha League (AIGL) leader Madan Tamang. The   sought their arrest warrant after these 22 failed to appear in court on Monday. 

 Of the 54 accused in the Tamang case, two have gone underground and four died. On receiving the hearing notice, 26 — including GJM core committee member Ramesh Allay — appeared in court on Monday, while 22 stayed away. The 26, who were to leave Kolkata on Tuesday night, will have to appear before court again on August 1, pending the Supreme Court’s order on the special leave petition.
 
 The court, which also noted the accused’s allegation of police harassment, directed the Bidhannagar police to submit a report. Given the court’s stand, the CBI started seeking legal opinion as it will be difficult for it to frame charges in the absence of an accused. Bail conditions mandated the accused had to be in Kolkata while charges were being framed.
 
 Turning down the CBI’s warrant plea, chief metropolitan magistrate Kundan Kumar Kumai said Calcutta HC had granted them anticipatory bail last December; an arrest warrant now would amount to its cancellation.
 
 Appearing for some of the accused, lawyer Sayan Dey submitted a petition, alleging police harassment on Monday evening. “Most of the accused stayed at Gorkha Bhawan, where the police searched their rooms. They were questioned and intimidated,” Dey said in court. Some accused also claimed they were questioned multiple times by cops, asking them to establish their identities. “We had to show ID cards to officers, who searched our rooms. Some of them were in uniform, some in plain clothes,” alleged GJM’s Allay. Outside the court, another accused, Keshab Raj Pokhrel, told reporters they were being shadowed by people, who claimed to be cops in plain clothes. “They clicked our photos and took photos of our ID cards,” he said.
 
 When the accused requested for protection by the prosecuting agency, CBI lawyer Arun Bhagat said, “Law and order is a state subject and the CBI cannot be responsible.” The court on Tuesday also admitted the petition submitted under 317 CrPC to the Supreme Court.
 
 The accused said though the CBI might have sent texts to them, it might not have reached them as telecom services in the Hills were down.
 
 
