MUMBAI: The National Investigation Agency ( ) has readied a formal request for an   red-corner notice against controversial Islamic preacher   and is likely to give it to the  , which is the Interpol’s office in India, on Thursday.

 Once an RCN is issued by the global police body, any international agency can arrest Naik wherever he is spotted and hand him over to India.
 
 Naik, who is facing probes for provocative speeches, inciting violence, spreading hatred, funding terrorists and money laundering, is said to be hiding in Saudi Arabia. Sources said he frequently travels to Malaysia and Indonesia.
 
 Sources said the RCN request against Naik was prepared with detailed evidence after procuring a non-bailable warrant against him from court and it was approved by NIA chief Sharad Kumar. NIA officials said Naik was given several chances to join the probe. “Three summons were issued to Naik but he didn’t respond. We have strong evidence against him, which is being shared with Interpol. The RCN will make him a global fugitive and any agency can take him into custody,” an officer said.
 
 While investigating agencies recently faced setbacks in getting RCNs issued against fugitives like   and Lalit Modi, officials are positive about Interpol issuing one against Naik as it pertains to “terrorism” charges. “The cases against Mallya and Modi were of cheating and money laundering, which are complex in nature and are governed by different laws in different countries. Terrorism has been recognised as a global threat by Interpol and the charges involve funding an Islamic State susp-ect so getting an RCN against Naik won’t be a problem,” the officer said. There is already a lookout circular against him at Indian ports and airports.
 
 NIA had filed a case against Naik, his NGO IRF and his close aides in November last year under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act and the IPC. The   is also probing him for allegedly laundering crores of rupees.Since then, NIA has recovered 37 properties worth over Rs 100 crore, his NGO and Peace TV have been banned and his associates have been arrested.
 
