NEW DELHI: A day after Pakistan 
   , both the Congress and its chief Sonia Gandhi's son-in-law Robert Vadra said they believe the BJP government has been inept at dealing with Pakistan.

 India retaliated against Islamabad's death sentence on Jadhav by deciding to 
  , but "Is that all we can do for the Indians held by Pakistan," asked Vadra today.
 
 A Congress party spokesman too appeared to have the same view as Vadra's, as he said it's time the BJP government moves beyond mere words and takes serious action against Pakistan.
 
 "In retaliation (for 
  death sentence), our govt has decided to not send back, 12 Pak prisoners. Is that all we can do for the Indians held by Pakistan ??!!," asked Vadra in a Facebook post. 
 
 Vadra also appeared to criticize the BJP government for not being strong enough when 
  .
 
 "I thought with the stop overs n celebrations of our premieres, we would have closer relations," Vadra added, alluding to PM Modi's surprise visit to meet Pakistan PM   the Christmas before last. 
 
 Vadra, who is Priyanka Gandhi's husband, said the government needs to go all out to save Jadhav's life.
 
 "For the sake of entire nation, the Government should take every step to save Jadhav's life," he said.
 
 
  
  
 
 Similarly, Congress spokesman   also said that not only should the PM intervene, he should also build support for a international diplomatic offensive.
 
  
  
  
 
 Surjewala said Pakistan sentencing Jadhav to death was a case of deliberate provocation.
 
 
  
  
 
 What especially made the sentence provocative, the Congress leader said, was the fact that India wasn't even told about it before a public announcement was made.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Since his arrest on March 3, 2016, India has always acknowledged that Jadhav is a retired Indian Navy officer, but it has also denied the allegation that he was in any way connected to the government.
 
 New Delhi has also consistently sought consular access to Jadhav, issuing as many as six note verbales to the Pakistan foreign ministry, top government sources told TOI in October.
 
 "India has relentlessly sought access to Jadhav. And we don't believe that he is a spy because had he been one, he wouldn't have been carrying an Indian passport," a source said. Jadhav's Indian passport was in the name of Hussein Mubarak Patel.
 
 Jadhav was tried in a military court in Pakistan.
 
 "The spy was tried through Field General Court Martial under the Pakistan Army Act and awarded the death sentence, "said Pakistan's   in a statement yesterday.
 
 
