NAGPUR: Surviving through days of hunger due to poor economic conditions,  , 25, finally achieved her goal and became a judicial magistrate first class (JFMC). On Saturday, she was felicitated during an awareness programme at Nagpur Family Court by members of the   (FCBA) on being selected for the post of  .

 “My ultimate goal is to reach the highest office in the judiciary, the Chief Justice of India,” said Wakdikar. 
 
 Wakdikar was born in a family of daily wage workers in   village of Bhandara district where her mother would work in farmlands nearby while her father was a cobbler. “I grew up like any other child in a village. I studied in a Marathi medium school and graduated in Bachelor of Arts in the village itself,” she said.
 
 While describing the lowest point in her life Wakdikar said, “I had almost no money when I was pursuing Master of Law (LLM) and did not even have enough for food. At one point I did not eat for four consecutive days. I was on the brink of depression but then realized that only I could get myself out of any situation.” Whatever money she had at the time was spent on books and she even avoided public transport to save as much she could. 
 
 According to Wakdikar, her maternal uncle drew her towards a career in law. “Growing up in poverty made me aware of struggles other people in my situation go through and wanted to do something for the society. But even after graduating I had no clue as to how I should do it. Then, my uncle told me to study law because I would be able to understand other people’s position and help them,” she said.
 
 Realizing that almost all laws are in English including the Constitution of India, Wakdikar worked hard to learn the language. “I realized my English was poor since I was schooled in Marathi medium. So, during my Bachelor of Law (LLB) studies I started reading English newspapers and now have a decent command over the language,” she said.
 
 Wakdikar says she was studious right from her school days. But given that her village was rather underdeveloped at the time, finding time to study was a hassle. She said, “power cuts was major issue then, especially in the evening when would normally study after school. But even then I would borrow oil lamps from neighbours and start learning.”
 
 “We can either move forward or go back when faced with adversities. I chose to keep moving because I could only see one goal in front of me,” said Wakdikar.
 
