CHANDIGARH: In an apparent impact of  's move to deregister parties not contesting elections, the number of such political organizations in Punjab assembly election fray has jumped to the highest ever of 51 this time -a rise of 38% from 37 in the 2012 elections.
On December 9, TOI had reported that the chief electoral officer of Punjab had already de-recognized up to 15 parties in the past six months.
 
 While the number of parties has risen drastically , the number of total candidates remains at 1,145, barely 67 more than the last time. What's more, 36 of these 51 parties are the ones which either did not exist -like AAP and its splinter group   -or did not field even one candidate in the last assembly polls. With the state having only 117 assembly constituencies, the number of parties this time is little less than half of the number of segments.
 
 Not surprisingly , the rise in the number of parties has come at the cost of independent candidates. There are only 304 of them contesting this time, as compared to 418 in 2012. On as many as 78 seats, the number of independent candidates is less than number of smaller parties. Probably for the first time in Punjab's recent electoral history , 11 constituencies have no independent contestant.
 
 National parties contesting in Punjab include Congress, BJP, BSP, NCP, CPI, and CPI (M). Incumbent   (SAD) and one of the main challengers AAP and J&K National Panthers Party are state recognized parties.
 
 Of the 43 smaller parties in the fray , 11 are contesting only from one seat, while 35 have fielded candidates from less than 10 seats.
 
 Data of the past two state assembly elections shows that the cumulative vote share of these registered parties never even crossed the mark of 1%. PPP, launched by SAD chief  's estranged cousin Manpreet Badal, was the only exception in the 2012 elections as it managed to corner 5.04% of the total votes polled in those elections. The direct impact of this was felt by the Congress as its vote share remained static despite strong anti-incumbency at 40% but it gained only two seats as loss in SAD's vote share from 37% to 34.7% was sucked in by PPP and other smaller parties.
 
 With the state facing a triangular contest for the first time between SAD, Congress and AAP, the victory margins are expected to remain low. In such a scenario, this mushrooming of smaller parties is bound to significantly impact the overall outcome of the elections. 
 
