VIJAYAWADA: Members of the Kapu community in the state, led by former minister  , are getting ready for a head-on collision with the state government seeking   and educational institutions as promised by the   (TDP) before the 2014 assembly elections. Joint action committees (JACs) have been to lead the movement in every district.

 The   launched the agitation two years ago on July 26 to mount pressure on chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu to extend BC status and   for them. With the struggle for quota set to enter the second year soon, Kapu leaders are planning to organise a ‘Chalo Amaravati’ programme from Kirlampudi in East Godavari district to Amaravati, the capital city, on July 26. Mudragada Padmanabham would himself lead the padayatra covering 400 km in in four districts - East Godavari, West Godavari, Krishna and Guntur.
 
 “The walkathon is likely to take 30 days and would be organised on the lines of Mahatma Gandhi’s peace march,” said JAC chairman Vasrireddi Yesubabu.
 
 The JAC leaders have finalised the route map for the yatra and in Krishna district it would pass through Kalidindi, Korukollu, Gudivada, Pamarru, Vuyyur, Kankipadu, Ramavarappadu, Krishnalakna and culminate at Prakasam Barrage. All arrangements, including night stay, have been made at various places from Kirlampudi to Amaravati for those taking part in the padayatra.
 
 Asked if they would seek police permission for the padayatra, the JAC leaders said there is no need for any permission. “Chandrababu Naidu had conducted padayatra before the 2014 elections. Did he apply for permission?” they asked. They said they had written to the state police asking them to send a copy of the permission letters submitted by Chandrababu Naidu so that the Kapu JAC too would write such a letter. “The police did not respond to our request. They are not showing any such letter by Chandrababu Naidu seeking permission for his padayatra before the election. If Naidu can undertake padayatra without police permission, why can’t others?” Yesubabu reasoned.
 
 When the apprehensions of the police on violence were brought to their notice, the JAC leaders attributed the Tuni violence to the total failure of the police in assessing and sensing the movement of anti-social elements who had mixed with the crowd.
 
