NAGPUR: 34-year-old Fide Master (FM)   is leading the charge of Vidarbha players at the halfway mark of the 19th   on Sunday. The nine-round international invitational tournament for players above 1500 Elo points is being played at the  .

 With a draw and a win against Grandmasters in the fifth and sixth rounds respectively, Thakur is on top among the local players -  ,   and Raunak Sadhwani. After the sixth round, Thakur garnered four points and is being followed closely by other local players.
 
 Having played a marathon 74-move battle, Thakur hogged the limelight by forcing Serbian GM   to split the points in the 5th round. Thakur followed his excellent form by scripting an upset win over WGM Mona Khaled of Egypt in the next round. Keeping it simple, Thakur opted for the Kings Indian defence to hold the seasoned GM from Serbia to a desiring result. In the following round Thakur, playing with the black bits, played aggressively and started with the regular Kings Pawn opening to register a rather comfortable 27-move victory over WGM Khaled. In the 7th round, Thakur will be playing against German GM Schroeder Jan-Christian.
 
 With 3.5 points, city's youngest FM Raunak Sadhwani is following Thakur closely. Having suffered a defeat against Azerbaijan's International Master (IM) Asadli Vugar, the 11-year-old made most of his opening advantage with the white pieces, to bounse back with a 36-move win over compatriot Panda Sambit. Raunak opted for the Caro-kan opening. On Monday, he will take on Indian IM Padmini Rout, who recently played in the Women World Championship in Iran.
 
 Amravati's Pawan Dodeja too is at par with Raunak. Having lost his 5th round tie against Firouzja Alireza of Iran in 45 moves, Dodeja utilized his opening advantage with whites better to outclass WFM Hallaeva Bahar in the following round. He will next face Phillipines IM Pascua Haridas in the 7th round.
 
 14-year-old Sankalp Gupta, however, played his heart out against German GM Mastrovasilis Athanasios. Having played a marathon 84-move battle, Sankalp gave a mighty scare to his fancied opponent before resigning. Earlier in the 5th round, Sankalp drew with WFM Tarini Goyal. He will start with the whites against compatriot   in the 7th round.
 
