GHAZIABAD: The National Green Tribunal on Thursday ordered a joint study by Delhi and UP pollution watchdogs of the air pollution levels in Kaushambi residential area of  , located adjoining the eastern borders of Delhi. The tribunal has directed the two authorities to submit a report of their findings within two weeks.

 A four-member bench of the tribunal headed by chairperson Justice Swatanter Kumar issued the order while hearing a petition filed by Kaushambi Apartments RWAs. The petitioners have filed a contempt petition in the tribunal alleging that municipal authorities in Ghaziabad had failed to remove encroachments near the UPSRTC bus terminal despite orders to the effect by the tribunal.
 
 In the original application filed in August 2015, the residents’ body had alleged gross air and noise pollution in the vicinity of Kaushambi township because of the presence of two major bus terminals – ISBT, Anand Vihar and UPSRTC, Kaushambi – in close proximity. The residents’ body had also pointed out that unauthorized parking of buses on road sides, encroachments by hawkers, blockage of drains and broken roads have also been adding to the pollution levels in the area.
 
 The bench has charted out a four-point terms of reference for the Delhi Pollution Control Committee ( ) and the UP Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) whereby they have been asked to personally visit the affected areas. Senior-most officials of both pollution watchdogs along with Ghaziabad municipal commissioner have been asked to convene a meeting within one week.
 
 As per the order, the study should encompass an analysis of the ambient air quality and noise pollution levels and observe traffic congestion in the area. The tribunal has asked the authorities to devise a “short-term and long-term action plan to ensure prevention and control of pollution, particularly the ambient air quality in that area”.
 
 Besides, the pollution control authorities have also been asked to reply as to “how far the directions issued by the tribunal have been complied with” apart from the “extent of performance of their respective statutory functions with reference to the ground realities at the site”.
 
 
