THANE: With the   rising,   are doing all that they can to not just keep their   comfortable but also help strays in their area to get respite from the scorching  . 

 From feeding them cold juices, fruits and ice creams to taking them out for early morning and post sunset walks, citizens are doing their best to help their furry friends beat the heat. 
 
 In an attempt to keep them   internally, many   in the city are not only taking the necessary precautions for their own pets, but are also keeping a number of water bowls for strays in their vicinity.
 
 Sameet Ghone, one such animal lover and resident of Vrindavan Society, said, “I have a Golden Retriever and I realised how badly the heat affected her only when I observed that she left her favourite mattress and claimed a permanent spot under the fan. In order to make her feel a little more at ease we have started giving her a lot of cooling foods such as bananas, pineapples and watermelon. She also loves fresh fruit juices, and ice-cream. We ensure that she drinks sufficient water every day.”
 
 Rajshree Shah, a Panchpakhadi resident said that she carries a few bottles of water while she takes her pet out for walks. 
 
 “As the afternoon heat makes the ground very hot to walk on barefoot, I take my four-year-old Labrador for walks around sunrise and after sunset only. On both the occasions, I carry a few bottles of water and fill up the small containers I have kept for strays in and around my area,” she said. 
 
 Animal activists from the city said that any pet should not be tied out of the house or made to work out or given heavy meals between 10am and 5pm.
 
 “Locking up a pet at home in this heat could cause heat strokes, dehydration and suffocation. Owners of dogs with a lot of fur like German Shepherd, Alsatians, etc should ensure that they are kept under a roof and preferably have air-conditioned rooms. Additionally, they should be given light food or else they will end up throwing up,” said one such city-based animal activist.
 
 Locking up a pet at home in this heat could cause heat strokes, dehydration and suffocation. Owners of dogs with a lot of fur like German Shepherd, Alsatians, etc should ensure that they are kept under a roof and preferably have air-conditioned rooms. Additionally, they should be given light food or else they will end up throwing up. Any pet should not be tied out of the house or made to work out or given heavy meals between 10am and 5pm
 
 
