NEW DELHI: In a remarkably frank speech, chief economic adviser ( ) Arvind   on Thursday took a dig at the assessment made by economic commentators, rating agencies and bankers and stressed on the need for creating centres that undertake independent research on macro-economic issues.

 “My claim is that experts often hold back their objective assessment. Instead, they censor themselves, and in public fora are insufficiently critical and independent of officialdom — whether the officials are in Mumbai or Delhi.
 
 To the extent they offer criticism, it is watered down to the point of being unidentifiable as criticism,” the government’s chief economist said while delivering the VKRV Memorial Lecture in Bengaluru. Similarly, he said, “Bankers are careful not to get on the wrong side of the government or the RBI, because they worry about losing access and because they are regulated by them.”
 
 He said that experts want to stay on the right side of power, RBI or government. “So, before policy decisions are taken the experts tend to express the views they think officials are likely to take. After policy actions, they try hard to endorse the decisions already taken. As a result, we in the government do not really benefit from their wisdom.” Subramanian also reiterated his criticism of the rating agencies, which have ignored India’s economic strength and refused to upgrade the country.
 
 “The rating agencies have been inconsistent in their treatment of China and India. Given this record — what we call Poor Standards —- my question is: why do we take these rating analysts seriously at all?” he said, playing on name of Standard & Poor. India has been placed in the lowest investment grade by international agencies, which raises the cost of borrowing besides deterring several investors to pump in money.
 
 While the assessment of the economic situation is made by the finance ministry and the monetary policy committee, Subramanian said it should be the result of a wider process, based on inputs from experts in the private sector, academia, and civil society. “As an insider, I am an eager consumer of the opinions of outsiders. Indeed, as CEA, I have now read a fair amount of commentary by analysts and journalists.
 
 What I see is a clear pattern. And it is a worrisome one. My central thesis is this: Much of this expert opinion, and not infrequently, is liable to being compromised. In short, like Emile Zola criticizing those who had unjustly framed a decorated soldier in 19th century France, J’accuse!”
 
 
 
 
 
