Michael H Merson has led a number of training programmes to strengthen the capacity of scientists in Russia, China, India and   to undertake research on HIVAIDS prevention. He's held multiple posts with the World Health Organization (WHO) -medical officer of the Diarrhoeal Diseases Control Program, and director of the Acute Respiratory Infections Control Program and Global Program on AIDS. Vicepresident and vice provost of global strategy at Duke University , Merson was in the city for the launch of the varsity's first Indian office. Excerpts from an interview:

 
 
 
 India faces a `double-disease burden', which includes ailments afflicting the poor like malnutrition and communicable diseases, and those which affect the rich. The latter is exemplified by a rise in noncommunicable diseases -heart disease, diabetes and other ailments that one associates with developed countries -and is exacerbated by smok ing, improper diet and lack of exercise. The country is also confronting environmentalrelated diseases such as chronic lung disease associated with air pollution.Comment on recent
 
 
 
 
 The private sector has seen a lot of innovation in areas like digital health, nutrition, exercise and early disease manage ment. Rotavirus vac cine to fight rotavirus causing acute diar rhoea among infants has had a significant impact in protecting young children in In dia. Researchers at   are work ing in partnership with Duke University to prevent another disease.
 
 
 
 Several Duke University faculty members are participating in disease prevention research and projects in India.Several of these innovators are helping people assess and manage risk factors for non-communicable diseases, while others are using mobile technology to train healthcare workers in rural areas. By strengthening the knowledge base and building partnerships, we hope that Duke can help their Indian partners address key health challenges.
 
 
 
 India has seen significant improvements in important metrics like overall life expectancy and rates of maternal and child deaths. The number one cause of death in India is heart disease, and the burden of diabetes and chronic kidney disease is growing rapidly . Developing stronger health systems to respond to these needs is challenging. India also faces a health burden from communicable diseases like tuberculosis and diarrhoeal diseases.Chikungunya and Japanese encephalitis are also notably severe in India and require strong surveillance systems.
 
 
 Addressing these concerns requires the right policies at the national and state levels, creative approaches to financing healthcare and more innovations. Achieving universal health coverage is a priority for India. The most pressing health challenges are best solved by people from different disciplines coming together, sharing knowledge and pursuing discoveries. We can no longer work in silos; the best results come from tie-ups.
 
