KOLKATA: A year ahead of the   in Russia, several Kolkatans are visting Moscow and other   this summer. However, Paris remains the favourite despite the terror attacks. 

 “Next year’s World Cup acted as a catalyst. We zeroed in on Russia before prices rise,” said former oil industry official Biswajit Basu, who will be travelling to Moscow, St Petersburg and Kazan with wife Kumkum. Flying by Aeroflot via Mumbai, it works out to Rs 80,000 per person or Rs 2.5-2.75 lakh for a family of four, including two children aged below 12.
 
 The Russian consulate is also doing its bit to promote   by facilitating visa on arrival for group travellers and issuing visa to individuals within three days with minimum documentation. 
 
 “Some combine Russia with Scandinavia and Germany to extend the trip to 16 days. The package includes Moscow, St Petersburg, Helsinki, Stockholm, Karlstad, Geilo, Bergen, Oslo, Copenhagen, Berlin and Frankfurt and costs around Rs 7.5 lakh for a family,” said Abhijit Dhar of Alps Tourist Services. 
 
 Southeast Asia remains a top draw for first-time travellers to foreign locales with Thailand, Malaysia, Singapore, Hong Kong, China and Macau being the top picks. Myanmar and Sri Lanka are steadily gaining popularity following direct flights to Yangon and Colombo. 
 
 In Europe, France combined with Switzerland is the most popular tour with the itinerary containing Paris, Euro Disney, Versailles and Nice in France and Zurich, Lausanne and Interlaken in Switzerland. The next most popular countries in continental Europe are Italy and Spain. Rome, Venice, Milan in Italy combined with Madrid, Barcelona and Tenerife in Spain make for the perfect 10-12 day trip. For a four-member family, the France-Switzerland sector costs around Rs 4.5 lakh. 
 
 “Cruises off Venice at 500-1,500 euro per person are also in demand. We have had more number of travellers to Europe than South-East Asia,” said Bilolaksha Das of Citi Travels.
 
 For those seeking more exotic locales in the Continent, East Europe with cities in Hungary, Poland and Czech Republic are where a section of Kolkatans are heading to. Japan, Australia and South Africa are also gaining popularity among the well-travelled. According to Travel Agents’ Federation of India chairman (east) Anil Punjabi, travel inquiries that usually begin in late February started around April-beginning this year. And there has been no stopping since. “There is a resurgence in travel this year. It could be a chartbuster year," he remarked.
 
 
