NAGPUR: For improving the present standard of   by in lighting them about their needs, to create better polices for proper primary education for minority community a ‘Consultation on Rights of Education of Minority Community Children of Nagpur’ program was organized by Division National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) at Anjuman Engineering College Auditorium, Sadar, Nagpur on Thursday.
 
 Children of minority community in the modern world have to face unemployment cause of lack primary education due to which they are heading toward poverty.
 
 NCPCR has organized this meet to evaluate the present condition of the children of minority community and help them being aware of certain policies as well as take their reviews for better education system. 
 
 Priyank Kanoongo and Yashwant Jain, Member, NCPCR, Government of India with Anil Pardhi, Deputy Director, Education, Government of India were the guests of honor. The program started with the lighting of the traditional lamp. 
 
 Yashwant Jain discussed the rights for children which are mentioned in the constitution and also introduced the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) to the audience while discussing the child related policies with them.
 
 While addressing the system of education in  , Kanoongo said that even though in the past Raja Ram Mohan Roy and Rajendra Prasad did their schooling from Madarsa and gave shape to the Indian history, what happened to the education system there now. 
 
 “What is the reason that a Madarsa can’t produce doctor or a lawyer now? Why cannot they play an important role in the country’s GDP?”, Kanoonga said. 
 
 He further discussed that there are 3% Christian population in India among which 97% are educated, there are only 1% Jain among which 99% are educated and when it comes to Muslim they only has 42% educated people among the 18% population in the country. 
 
 “To increase the rate of education in the Muslim community we need different policies which will only connect to Muslims” said Kanoongo.
 
 “We have taken a step now it’s your turn to take a step and share your reviews with us so that we could forward them to government,” he mentioned.
 
 While interacting with guest, audiences shared their reviews for better educational facilities. Among which special counseling for empowerments of women, platform school, scholarship for the minority students comes along which were appreciated by the guests. For Madarsa board all present audience showed tremendous response. 
 
 Vibhanshu Joshi and Mufti Harim were also present during this programme. 
 
 Md. Shahid Sharif, chairman RTE Action Committee compared the programme and also worked hard for the success of this programme.
 
 (Reporting by  )
 
