In a major security breach at the Kempegowda International Airport ( ) here, a Central Industrial Security Force ( ) constable attached with the bomb detection and disposal unit has been arrested for allegedly operating as a carrier for smuggling in contraband items into the airport. He used to conceal the package inside his uniform and walk into the facility and then wait at the washroom near the boarding gates to hand it over to the designated carrier before they boarded the flight.

 However, his luck ran out when a team of   (DRI) officials, acting on a tip-off, nabbed the carrier on the aerobridge before entering the flight last Monday. The carrier spilt the beans on his CISF accomplice, leading to his arrest on Thursday. The incident, at the moment, is being treated as a top-priority case since the tainted official has reportedly confessed that he had been involved in two similar incidents of sneaking in packages to be carried on aircraft without any mandatory security screening at the airport.
 
 “He has said it is not his first time and he never used to open the package before handing it over to the carrier who goes through regular security clearance at the airport. He was paid Rs 50,000 for his services,“ said a DRI source.
 
 The CISF constable identified as Dhinesh Kumar (28), a native of Uttar Pradesh, was attached with the CISF unit deployed at the airport and was reportedly colluding with 65-year-old Abdul Rahim, a small-time furniture showroom owner and his son Mohammed Abdullah (31) to fly out to Bangkok with a package of foreign currency worth Rs 1.14 crore. The flyer had around Rs 37 lakh worth of US dollars, Rs 40 lakh worth of UAE Dirham, Rs 1 lakh in  , and the remaining amount in Swiss Franc and Singapore dollars.
 
 “We also found a single counterfeit Rs 2,000 Indian currency note with the flyer. Abdul Rahim has confessed that the CISF man, Dhinesh, handed it over to him near the washroom after he finished security clearance. We cannot rule out the involvement of a major racket at this moment ,“ the source added.
 
 “We are cooperating with the investigation at this point and strict disciplinary action will be initiated against the person involved in the incident. It is mandatory that even the CISF personnel deployed at the airport be thoroughly frisked,“ said Deputy Commandant Manjit Singh, Spokesperson, CISF Headquarters.
 
 When contacted, Saroj Maria Joseph, KIA spokesperson, said the CISF was entrusted with the airport's security, and the administration would not be able to comment on it.
 
