 came into the film industry with a lot of promise, but he could never break into the top. Having said that, the actor has given us some memorable movies like Five Star, Kanda Naal Mudhal,   and Kalyana Samayal Saadham. The latest in this list is Pa.  , in which he plays the role of Rajkiran’s son. In a candid chat with us, the actor opens up about being judged for being unsuccessful, misunderstanding   and working with Sneha again. Excerpts…

 
 I never expected people to appreciate my role to this extent in the movie. My screen time is much lesser than that of   sir, but people were able to relate to the film through my character. I represented the youngsters of today. What touched me the most is that many people spoke to me and said they will start calling their parents at least once a day and won’t neglect them. If a film brings in that kind of a change, then that is success, more than the box office numbers.
 
 
 I am being optimistic and want to do better work. It is my first release in three years, and it is a wonderful start to my career again. I also have an interesting lineup of films. But Pa. Pandi has given me wider reach and audience. There might be a sequel too, based on Dhanush’s availability. So, I am hoping for the best of things to happen.
 
 
 I had assumed all sorts of wrong things about Dhanush, because I was fed all kinds of wrong information about him. But from the minute I met him, he made me feel that everything I had assumed was wrong. I hadn’t spent too much time with him and so I shouldn’t have judged him. When he started narrating the script, he told me clearly that Rajkiran sir will be playing the protagonist and that he had me in mind for the role of Raghavan. He was always cool and had complete control over the set. I used to assume that Dhanush is acting all the time. But after working with him, I have realised that he is a polite person. I have also come to understand that I shouldn’t judge anyone without knowing them. Dhanush is a lesson for me. What you hear and see are not always true.
 
 
 Thankfully, I didn’t judge myself wrong. I have been fortunate to do some good roles. But I really don’t know why I have never tasted huge success. Things would have definitely been a little easier if I had had a film background. There are actors who have not given one hit, but are still doing four to five films continuously. But backing alone cannot help. One needs to be talented as well. A lot of directors had come to me with good scripts, but I think we all failed because of lack of producers. Most of the producers just want to work around a number. They only see which actor brings in the money and which director has given a hit and think of making a film with them. They only look at profits. Perhaps this is why I haven’t arrived yet. I do agree that they need to make their money too, but a little involvement will be good.
 
 
 The main reason why I agreed to do Kaalakkoothu is because for the first time, someone looked at me against a rural backdrop. The film has been shot in Madurai, and life is different there when compared to Chennai. I also have a slang. I want to say something to those who think I am a city lad; I have worked in farms and come from Trichy. For some reason, all the scripts that came to me were city-based. I wanted to break that and that’s why I did movies like Anjathe and Baana Kaathadi. I have been trying to break that stereotype and I will try to prove myself.
 
 
 Audience will get to see a different Prasanna in my upcoming movies, primarily because my look has changed. In Thiruttu Payale 2, I play a villain. Susi Ganeshan who introduced me to movies with Five Star thought I would be perfect for the role. I am also doing Thupparivaalan, a detective story. I play someone like a Watson from Sherlock Holmes. I will also be doing the kind of dark humour that you see in a Mysskin movie. I was shooting for both these movies simultaneously and it was a bit of a challenge because for Thiruttu Payale 2, I have this chiseled body, and for Thupparivaalan, Mysskin didn’t want me to look muscular. So, for 15 days in a month, I would work out like crazy, and for the other 15, I would chill out. I’m also doing Nibunan, which has Arjun, Varalaxmi Sarathkumar and myself. Varu and I are like cat and mouse in this cop movie. I have also signed a new film with  .
 
 
 I was 96 kilos after Kaalakkoothu. I freaked out because I had never been that heavy. Now, I am 72 and pretty muscular. I just wanted to lose weight and never planned it as a transformation. My trainer, Sandeep has been amazing and has been such an inspiration. I never believed I can have this kind of a body. I started working towards toning up my body and here I am. If I may say, my pant size was 36, and now it is 30. I had to change my entire wardrobe so many times. Now, I don’t think I can ever be without working out.
 
 
