LUCKNOW: Did you know that the medieval   ensured official documentation (much like Aadhaar) of all its state workers, animals and even material things by intricate detailing of outward appearances through the  ? This ensured that false identities were kept at bay. Finer details like the shape of the 
nose, complexion of skin and placement of eyebrows and scars facilitated identificationand authentication.
 
 Also, there was not one but several types of courtesans in Awadh. This included kasbi - a harlot working openly in brothels - and khangi, a clandestine prostitute. The deredar tawaif was the highest class of prostitute maintaining salons and holding literary mehfils, while gore kamanewali were ones who earned specifically through white men. Many such hidden facets of Awadh have found a place in the late bibliophile   ' ' that was launched at his alma mater La Martiniere College on Sunday. "I was attracted to the chapter on the types on courtesans that made me think of the freedom Awadh had in those days. The chapter on women and society began with etiquette that men had to follow in front of women who were not their wives," said Carlyle McFarland, principal of the college.
 
 Mahmud, who had a personal library of around 17,000 books, most of them being rare magazines, post cards and photographs, started putting together the book in 2008. However, he died in 2016 and his manuscripts were given final shape by his daughter-in-law, Tasneem Mahmud. Divided into nine chapters under three main categories of customs and traditions, cuisines, culture and crafts and society and women, the book blends together a narrative derived from hundreds of and references from rare books. "The volume tries to touch on the neglected aspects of Awadh not commonly found in other books, such as the speech and pastimes of common people, dastangoi, marsiya recitation, etc," said Tasneem.
 
 "The books reminds one of the syncretic nature of Awadh, with Muslims partiicipating in Basant rituals and Hindus in Muharram," said Justice (Retd) Vishnu Sahai. "The book records the Awadh of my childhood, as a repository of cultures and the foundation of several emotions in a heartfelt manner," added Padma Shri Prof Mansoor Hasan.
 
