This Karnataka cricketer has worked his way to a permanent spot in the opening order for Team India. He’s had probably the best run that any cricketer could ask for over the past year. Currently on a break, recuperating after a surgery for a shoulder injury, KL   meets us for an interview at his candid best. “The next two weeks will be me resting and letting the shoulder heal naturally. The body takes its own time, so there’s not a lot of physical exercise that I can do. I will just chill and then head in for physiotherapy. It will take a couple of months from there to hopefully be ready for the pitch,” says Rahul. Excerpts from the chat...
This sudden break following the injury must be hard to believe...
 I am still not able to digest the fact that I am on a break and don’t understand what I should and can do. In a way, I am happy that I have got a break, because I have been on the road for the past 12 months. I’ve been at home for a week and I’m already itching to go back out and train or play or do some activity. I’m all about playing sport or doing physical activity and can’t sit at home and do nothing — I feel useless as a person. I keep telling myself that this is what is more important for me and my body and that I’ve to do this because my shoulder has to heal. 
 How do you assess the year gone by?
 The last year was about brilliant series’ and innings and then an injury that has pulled me back down. Every time I am on a high, I’m back down again, so, in that sense, it has been a bit of a roller coaster ride for me. People say I’ve had a fantastic year. I know I have had a fantastic year, but I also had my share of injuries. The last year hasn’t only been about success and doing well at cricket. It has changed the way I look at the game, myself and life. It has changed me as a person and the injuries have humbled me. It made realize the importance of valuing what I have and being responsible. It is very easy for me to sit back and think of it as an injury that every sportsman goes through. But I have to be more disciplined; I’m a professional cricketer now, who represents the country. I have to take better care of myself to ensure that injuries don’t happen too often. It has been a great learning process for me.
 Does it get frustrating to see so much cricket around, with IPL on in full swing?
 I decided not to watch cricket, because sitting and watching will only make me feel more frustrated and depressed. I would want to be a part of all these important tournaments, especially the IPL, as it is big event in India that everybody is watching. With summer holidays on, even kids come and fans arrive in big numbers at the stadium to support their favourite teams. So, it is crazy to miss out on something like this. The World T20 Champions Trophy is coming up, which would have been my first big international tournament. For the past six months, I have been really excited to play in that tournament and defend the championship with the team. I had a lot of plans for the year, but unfortunately this injury happened. As much as I try to keep away and not watch any game, every time you walk into a restaurant or bar in Bengaluru you find IPL playing on the screens there. And, once I start watching, I can’t take my eyes off it. I went for a couple of games, and, for once, as a spectactor, I got to see how others behave and and what their mindset is like. Sitting in the stands and looking at people and hearing their comments, I can now understand why they say those things. There are times hen you are sitting in the stands and have no control over what’s happening on the field, you know that a batsman has to hit a six or how a bowler has to bowl here. But as a player, you know that you are often under pressure and cannot execute all the time. So when you hear comments from people, they may seem harsh. 
 Talking about pressure, people expect you to always score high...
 Honestly, that is something that I always wanted to be known as — somebody who is always consistent, adn ready to take the field when the team needs someone to take charge. This is especially because I have to start the innings, build a solid foundation and lead the way for the rest of the guys. To get the team off to a good start is the biggest responsibility for me, no matter what my individual score or milestones are. Those really don’t matter to me. If I’ve done my responsibility well, I will be happy at the end of the day. It is a good thing that people expect so much of me. But, so far, at least, I haven’t felt the pressure of what people are saying. I’m really not worried about what people say — good or bad. It’s my job and I’m playing for the country. I am not doing anything to impress somebody or prove them right. 
 
 
 Being at   and watching a   game was something that I ticked off the wishlist. I’ve always been a United fan, and, fortunately for us, we happened to be in Manchester when United was playing. We got tickets and a really good hospitality suite. It was good to just sit there and watch the game. I’ve always loved football. In the last couple of months, I watched a game in Munich at the   and in February I watched (Bayern) Munich versus Arsenal and in April, Manchester United live in Old Trafford. There are a lot of things I have been wanting to do that I got to do recently.
 
 
 I am pretty regular on Instagram, but not so much on Facebook and Twitter. I don’t interact much. For me, social media is about sharing the few things in my life that I don’t mind sharing, since people want to know what is happening in my life. Everyone wants to know what happens in the life of a sportsman or celebrity, so that’s why I am on social media. But I don’t look at social media to interact with anybody. If I have to, I will find ways to contact them or meet them somewhere and have a real conversation. 
 
 
 Female attention has always been there. I’m not among the worst looking guys. Appreciation is always good and it doesn’t hurt you. You like to read good things about you and see people sending in their love and calling you handsome, hot and sexy. I don’t complain that I don’t like it. 
 
 
 I always knew I will be up there. There are a lot of good-looking guys in Bengaluru, no doubt, but only the known guys make it to the list. I also realized that unless I make it big in cricket, I won’t feature on the list. I might be good looking, but I have to be successful and do well also, so it was good to be on that list. But I won’t be satisfied till I am No. 1. It is just a sportsman thing and how we are wired. We want to be No. 1 in everything, wherever we are featured. For all the good things we want to be No. 1. 
 
 
 I’ve always been an outdoor person. I go out, even if I am playing a game the next day. I just ensure that it is not too late. We finish our training by 6 pm, after which I head out to a restaurant or just anywhere other than the room. I hate being within the four walls of the room and watching shows on my laptop and restricting my life to just that. Going out helps me switch off from the game, and the next day, when I am on the field, I feel fresh and hungry and that is the most important thing needed for one to do well. 
 
 
 
 I am a big foodie and I love experimenting with my food. My friends generally tell me about good restaurants as well as new hot spots. I love Asian cuisine. There are a lot of new places in Bengaluru and I’m not averse to go there and check out what they are like. Now is a good time for me to live a little for myself.
 
 
 
 
