LUCKNOW:  's attractive knock for   brought some cheer on a day of soporific cricket and slow over-rates in the   on Tuesday.

 His 88 runs and then a couple of wickets including that of   skipper   was instrumental in putting the Reds on a firm footing. At close on Day Two at Ekana International Cricket Stadium, the Blues were struggling at 181 for five chasing India Red score of 483. Only Bengal's   was waging a grim battle with his unbeaten 87. The Blues still require 103 runs more to avoid the follow-on.
 
 Stoppages to fumigate the ground for insects and repair jobs required to fill up the footmarks created by Ishant Sharma saw the game being stopped ten times. This meant the day's 90 overs could be completed after an extension of 68 minutes from the official close of 8.30 pm.
 
 Washington was the saving grace for the handful of fans who were there to watch the proceedings. Known more for his off-spin, the Tamil Nadu lad also made his bat do the talking to bolster the Reds' score after they started off from their overnight score of 317 for five.
 
 With wickets tumbling regularly at the other end, he kept dominating the Blue bowlers with his big shots.With both the spinners ­ Bhargav Bhatt and Akshay Wakhare ­ troubling the batsmen with their turn and bounce, Washington came up with a fine counter-attack.
 
 Tonking the ball to all parts of the ground, he collected five sixes and a dozen boundaries during his 118ball stay at the wicket. And, the best out of them came when he effortlessly lofted medium-pacer Jaydev Unadkat over his head for the maximum. Thanks to his effort, the Reds put on 43 runs for the last wicket. But, during that period the umpires forced a penalty of five runs on the batting side for Basil Thampi running on the wickets.
 
 After wielding the bat superbly, Washington came back to trouble the Blue batsmen with tight length and sharp turn. He first drew out Raina to beat him with his spin for Dinesh Karthik to effect a spectacular stumping and then caught Ishan Kishan in front of the wicket with a straighter one.
 
 At the other end, left-arm spinner Vijay Gohil, who opened the bowling for the Reds, too kept the batsmen at tenterhooks with sharp turn and fine length to bag the wickets of Srikar Bharat, Manoj Tiwary and Deepak Hooda.
 
 
