NAGPUR: In a move that is likely to escalate the conflict between Nagpur Police and   (VCA), officials of the cricket body has been slapped with four more charges. Sources in the police said Sections 465 (punishment for forgery), 471 (using a genuine as forged), 417 ( ) and 177 (furnishing false information) of IPC. 

 The cops have already booked 14 VCA officials under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 336 (Act endangering life or personal safety of others) and other Acts.
 
 The report drafted by the senior inspector Hemant Kharabe from Hingna police station was dispatched to advocate general Rohit   in a sealed envelope, about a couple of days back.
 
 The case came up for hearing on Thursday when the government pleader, appearing on the AG’s behalf, sought a week to decide the course of action. The court was hearing a PIL filed by social worker Paramjeet Singh Kalsi through Harnish Gadhia seeking directives to the association to pay security dues.
 
 A division bench comprising Justices Bhushan Gavai and Indira Jain then adjourned the hearing till March 17, while expressing hope that the AG would personally inform about the decision taken by him. Police sources said they had also dispatched a copy of petition along with the probe report to Deo in Mumbai. Deo is likely to attend the next hearing.
 
 Earlier, the VCA submitted an application in the court to withdraw all adverse allegations made against the police in its application for quashing of FIR against them.
 
 During the last hearing on February 23, the judges put the ball in AG’s court by advising the warring factions to settle their issue amicably. Deo was told to hear both sides, apply mind and take decision with a view to resolve the dispute. The judges granted liberty to the VCA to file their submissions with the AG.
 
 Police sources however confirmed that VCA officials failed to move their submissions to the AG and he would not be inviting them for talks as they’re now an “accused” party in the case. Now, AG would only advise the police on how to proceed against the VCA officials for a series of violations, police sources said.
 
 During the last hearing, the bench court orally warned that if consensus wasn’t reached between both factions, they would decide the case on merit and may direct investigating agencies like CBI to probe charges labelled by them against each other. “It may open the pandora’s box for both parties,” the judges had cautioned.
 
 They also questioned the VCA officials on issuance of complimentary passes to the police and others due to which the entire controversy was created. “Stop issuing passes even to the judges,” they orally told senior counsel Sunil Manohar, Akshay Naik and   appearing for VCA.
 
