KOLKATA: On the face of frequent attacks on doctors, men and women in white aprons have decided not to take the blows and punches lying down. On Sunday, a group of   from different specialities gathered in a Salt Lake hall, not to discuss the latest medical gadgets or a new drug in the market. They were there to learn the basics of self-defence at a workshop organized by Doctors For Patients (DOPA), to protect themselves during assaults.

 They learnt the   techniques used by Israeli   called ‘Krav Maga’ demonstrated by trainer  . The inaugural session of ‘Save Thyself Learn Krav Maga’ saw participants from both genders. There was never a dull moment as the keen doctors kept asking questions to the trainer.
 
 “There was a lot of excitement and enthusiasm among the doctors who turned up on Sunday. In addition to learning how to defend themselves on the face of any physical threat, I am sure the session was unwinding for them,” said Roy.
 
 “Recently, there has been a spurt in incidents of assault on doctors. I decided to take up lessons on ‘Krav Maga’ to defend myself in such situations without hurting the attackers,” said Sharadwat Mukhopadhyay, oncologist with AMRI Hospitals.
 
 “I feel empowered right after the first session. I intend to attend more classes and am sure will feel more confident after four-five sessions. The moves were quite doable,” said Madhuchhanda Kar, clinical director of oncology at Peerless Hospital. Kar, who has not faced an assault on duty so far, however, feels that learning the ‘Krav Maga’ moves will help her in any event of attack. The military self defence tactics is a combination of techniques sourced from boxing, wrestling, aikido and judo.
 
 “I have always been into sports including tennis and other fitness regime. I thoroughly enjoyed this new form of sports and am looking forward to the next session,” said gynaecologist Goutam Dutta Sarma. In fact, Sharma attended the session with his wife Rakhi Sanyal, a critical care specialist. The couple will attend more classes together in future.
 
 DOPA will be organizing such classes regularly in the city and later intends to extend to at least three more places including Siliguri, Burdwan and Arambag.
 
