BADAL: Former Punjab Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal’s native and politically hot village Badal again rose to its feet seeking votes, 50 days after the Punjab assembly elections. The jubilation this time had nothing to do with any kind of politics, despite the village's synonymity with politics, the villagers came out in large numbers to see the son of the soil  , rise to dizzying heights in the national spectrum in the field of singing. 

 Khuda Baksh is competing in ‘Indian Idol’ which is run by a national level private television channel and has already become a sensation due to his sterling performances. 
 
 On Thursday Khuda Baksh, 21, a native of  , reached his village in between shooting for the 9th version of the Indian Idol. Khuda Baksh is already among the last 4 contestants in the singing reality show. He had come to get votes for his success from the village residents and also from the entire state of Punjab. The number of votes has to play a decisive role in selection of   of singing, said Khuda Baksh.
 
 The villagers accorded him a warm welcome and took him on a open jeep ride around of the village. The students of   were ecstatic upon seeing Khuda Baksh amongst them and took selfies with him.
 
 Khuda Baksh's family is into singing since a long time. Apart from Khuda Baksh, his sister Afsana Khan too has been selected to compete in another talent show Rising Star being run on another national TV channel. Khuda Baksh’s father Sheera Khan died due to some ailment few years ago, he too had recorded 6 albums. Khuda Baksh’s grandfather Gafoor Mohammad too was in same profession.
 
 “I am indebted to people of my village and the entire country who are voting for me. I have reached the last 4 stage in the Indian Idol and working hard to win the coveted title. I have got a lot of inspiration from the village to make it big”, Khuda Baksh told TOI. He said I will never indulge in indecent singing or double meaning songs.
 
 “We want him, to win and for it we will call on our relatives, acquaintances to vote for Khuda Baksh so that he may take the name of village to heights in a field other than politics,” said villager Kulwant Singh and Boota Khan, who were welcoming Khuda Baksh.
 
 "He is true to his name Khuda Baksh as he is like God of singing”, said Dashmesh college students. 
 
 We want the name of village Badal to shine politically and culturally and for it Khuda Baksh is really an idol”, said Youth Akali Dal zonal vice president Ranjodh Singh. 
 
 His mother used to clean utensils at homes of villages, she no more needs to do it:
 We have faced sheer poverty. My mother Asha Begum used to clean utensils at the homes of people. My father Sheera Khan was also a singer but had a scanty income with which our six member family was unable to make both ends meet. After my father died of ailment a few years ago it was my mother who did a lot for her children and it is time to give something back. 
 
 Now with my reaching the Indian Idol and my sister Afsana being selected in Rising Star, we have been able to provide facilities to my mother who deserved it and she will not have to do that again,” emotional Khuda Baksh told Times of India.
 
