
 
  This village in the Salcete taluka measures 30,95,000sqm but, is dwarfed by its two mighty neighbours, Loutolim in the north and east and Raia in the south and west. Camurlim, as it is officially called, is popularly known as Ambora, and has a striking character and possesses the rich legacy of the bygone era.
  Though no relics or ruins remain, it is said the part of the village called Diullbhatta was the centre for 60 villages of Salcete and 10 corporations of the taluka for debating and deciding matters in its ‘sotorbonderachembatta’, a meeting place of 70 stalwarts from the area where each of them would get a respective flag with a symbol and name.
  Another tradition, no more observed, saw the parish priest of Our Lady of Snows Church, Raia, cut the first sheaves of rice on August 5 to celebrate Konsachem Fest (harvest feast), only after receiving konsam (sheaves) of rice grown in the fields of Camurlim
  comunidade.
  The village is home to more than 4,500 residents, of which 3,000 are registered in the state’s electoral roll. Camurlim encompasses hilly areas and has more than two-thirds of its land earmarked for agriculture of which hardly one-third is cultivated. A large portion of land is devoted to khazans.
  The village’s vadde (wards) include Nirboga vaddo, Dollanvaddo, Gavon, Uzro, Tembia, Sonfator, Naquelim, Zorivaddo, Kurgutti, Kulsabhatt, Dongri, etc.
  Most of the villagers of Camurlim profess the Catholic faith and belong to the chardo (kshatriya) caste. Camurlim comprises eight ‘vangores’ (clans). They are Sousa, Antao, Dias, Mascarenhas, Cardozo, Carvalho, Fernandes and Quadros.
  Ask villagers to describe their village and pat comes the reply. “Our Camurlim is a marvel,” says Antonio Antao.
  “It is a peaceful village and most of its residents are zonnkars (those who share profit or loss of the village
  income).
  The village has almost everything, except a public park and crematorium for Hindus,” says Conceicao Dias, who has been the village’s longest-serving sarpanch has held the post from 1982 to 1997.
  
  Residents Speak
  Camurlim’s natural treasure artistically depicts its flora, springs and hills. Its children have excelled in the fields of music, army, navy, education, catering and priestly vocation, etc.
 Reginald Antao | resident
  
  Despite being a small village, Camurlim is special for its character. Historically too, in the pre-Liberation era, both the Ambora jetty and Ambora spring occupied an important place in the village, 
 Celso Dias | recipient of best teacher state award in 2006, former headmaster - our lady of succour high school, nagoa, and
  ex-sarpanch of camurlim
 
 Sarpanch Speaks
 A public park for Camurlim has come up for discussion. It can become a pragmatic idea if all the modalities are worked for its regular upkeep
 
 Hilda Sequeira, sarpanch
 
 
  RENOWNED RESIDENTS
  Monsignor   e Antao (February 15, 1909 - March 25, 1971). This eminent son of the soil had 37 credentials, including professor of the seminary of Rachol, member of government committees on archaeology, awards, and also in the Goa University. He also wrote 42 articles on canon law in Latin and Portuguese
  
  Theodore Mascarenhas (sfx) was ordained on March 13, 2014, as bishop and is presently secretary general of CBCI (Catholic Bishops Conference of India)
  
  Dr Yuri Dias Amborkar, professor and head of plastic surgery at GMC
  
  Late Jose Francisco Antao, known for baking delectable biscuits, pastries and cakes. Started off as a trainee at Taj, Mumbai, and rose on to achieve the sobriquet of ‘puddingwala’ for his puddings
  
  Colonel Neville Dias worked in Signals, infantry in Madras regiment, and served as defence attaché in China
  
  Antonio Caetano Antao was an outstanding musician, who served for 21 years in the Indian Navy. He is considered a seminal authority on violin. In 2012-2013, he was awarded the state's  
  
  Professor emeritus Patrick V Dias was a renowned academician. Till a few years ago, he was the head of the sociology department, Frankfurt University, Germany. He specializes in issues connected with multilingualism and bilingualism
  
  Dr Jeremy Dias was ex-director of health services
  
  Rosario Antao played for   and Orkay Mills FC, Mumbai. He is remembered for
  scoring a grand
  hattrick against Mohun Bagan
  
  Felicio Cardoso, journalist, freedom fighter, writer, and editor of Goencho Sad, died in a tragic road accident on May 17, 2014, alongwith Fr Freddy J da Costa, founder editor of Gulab, a Konkani magazine
  
  Heritage Trail
  Our Lady of
  Candelaria Church
  The present building erected on May 13, 2010, has a long history dating back to 1766 when it started as a chapel and functioned under the Raia church. In 1952, it was elevated as the parish church.
  
  Our Lady of
  Candelaria Chapel
  at Khulsabhat, is considered the oldest chapel of the village, whose origin points to the existence of the then Holy Cross at Diullbhatta.
  
  Ambora Zor (spring)
  The flow of water in the area is believed to be replete with medicinal properties. In its heyday, Goemkars from far and wide would come here to bathe. With the passage of time, the place has completely lost its past glory.
  
  Uzro Zor
  Another important water body of Camurlim, which today lies in a dilapidated state.
  
  Panchayat
  complex
  A hotspot for villagers, apart from the panchayat office, it houses a gymnasium, library, playground, and community centre hall
  
  Jila Bakery
  Since 1972, it has been a famed bakery for mouthwatering cakes, eclairs, fan biscuits, etc
