PATNA: Patna witnessed a carnival of sorts on Wednesday with around a lakh of Sikh devotees participating in the 15-km long ‘nagar kirtan’ to celebrate the 350th birth anniversary of tenth Sikh  . While one end of the ‘kirtan’ was at Kargil Chowk, the other end had reached Patna Science College, thus covering a distance of more than 3km.
 
  The mega procession included 200 horses, 12 camels and four elephants. The elephants and horses had come from Punjab and Delhi, among other places. A sight of the grand procession with vivid colours and heightened energy left most Patnaites spellbound as people stood along the roads and on high-rise buildings on the route to catch a glimpse of it.
  
  The ‘nagar kirtan’, which started from Gandhi Maidan at 10am, reached Takhat Sri Harmandir Saheb in Patna City at 9pm via Ashok Rajpath, Mahendru, Gai Ghat and Patna City Chowk. Most of the devotees walked barefoot.
  
  ‘Shabads’ written by Guru Gobind Singh like ‘Deh Shiva Bar Mohe Hai, Shubh Karman Te Kabhu Na Daro (My body is transient. I should not be scared of fighting for the cause of righteousness) rent the air. Devotees divided themselves in various jatthas (groups) and each one kept reciting ‘gurbani’ throughout the long route. Several band teams of the city too enthralled devotees by reciting ‘gurbani’.
  
  The procession was led by two groups of ‘Panj Pyaras’ attired in traditional dress of Sikh warriors followed by a drum band of 115 girls from SGGS Girls School, Patna City, and that of 13 girls from Guru Gobind School Middle School, also from Patna City. Apart from school and local bands, bands from   and   also participated in the procession.
  
  More than 100 SUVs and cars formed a long line carrying pilgrims. Several of them kept blaring ‘gurbani’ with big loudspeakers. A group of 50 Sikhs kept brandishing swords in open while another group of ‘Nihang Sikhs’ wowed onlookers by ‘barcha’ and ‘neja’(pointed Sikh weapons).
  
  The main attraction of ‘nagar kirtan’ was ‘gatka’, a Sikh martial art, which was displayed by ‘Nihangs’ (Sikh warriors) and youths clad in impressive dresses and weapons in hands. A sight of the Sikh warriors riding the 5-7 tall stallions with swords and spears in hands left the onlookers spellbound.
  
  “Guru Gobind has been and would always be Guru of ‘gatka’ and we are feeling blessed to showcase our skills in the spiritual martial art at  , where he was born,” said  , a ‘Nihang’ from Patiala.
  
  At the epicentre of ‘nagar kirtan’ was a tableau of Sri Guru Granth Sahib installed on a palanquin bedecked with flowers. Devotees as well as onlookers showered flowers on the palanquin and a group of 50 devotees kept cleaning the road ahead with brooms. Snacks and water was distributed throughout the route by Patnaites, with some even arranging chairs for devotees for temporary rest.
  
  The district administration and Patna Police had made elaborate security arrangements for the smooth conduct of the ‘kirtan’. Police personnel were seen regulating the procession all across the route. No vehicles were allowed to ply on Ashok Rajpath and security personnel were also seen on high-rises to keep a bird’s eye on the mega procession. An ambulance, a fire tender and 30 police bikes were at the closing end of the procession.
