PANAJI: Once blessed with an abundance of tisreo (clams), the quaint village of   now struggles to harvest the shellfish, with the numbers dropping by an alarming 50% over the past decade. 

 The village was always known for its tisreo. So much so that the locals were mainly fishermen, whose income was largely drawn from the harvesting and selling of fresh clams. Over the past decade, however, many have given up this traditional profession to get into less laborious and more lucrative tourism activities, such as providing dolphin-sighting trips. When compared, a portion of tisreo fetches between Rs 150-200 and involves much hard work, while dolphin-sighting trips garner as much as Rs 300 per head.
 
 Now, villagers themselves admit the aggressive movement of boats and the resultant pollution have resulted in the loss of tisreo.
 
 Pocketed in Bardez, the village of Nerul is surrounded by the Sinquerim river and the picturesque, palm-fringed   beach, besides sharing borders with the historic village of Verem-Reis Magos. Tisreo are harvested on the Sinquerim side of the village, near Coco beach.
 
 “Big boats that carry out parasailing activities on the beaches of Sinquerim, Calangute and   usually park their vessels at a site close to where the tisreo are. They have engines that dredge the water body when turned on, which cause imbalance in the process,” said fisherman  . “This has resulted in at least a 50% drop in the number of clams as compared to 10 years ago,” he added.
 
  “Each boats stomachs 50 litres of diesel per day, some of which spills into the water. Overtime, the waters have become polluted, thus affecting the clam population,” said boat ride operator, Anand Kalangutkar.
 
 The beach has 144 vessels that conduct rides from November 1 to May 31 every year, and cater to a footfall of approximately 200 people daily.
 
 “Fresh catches of fish reek of diesel during these months. As natural filters of water, tisreo absorb the grime. It has become difficult for us to push sales due to this,” said David D’Souza, a traditional fisherman.
 
 While the villagers swear by these factors for the drop in clam catch, Nerul still awaits a marine expert who can come forward and offer solutions.
 
 G B Sreekanth, fisheries scientist at the Old Goa-based, ICAR-CCARI said, “There has been no scientific study done of the waters of Nerul to determine the factors for the reduction of clams in the village. A study of the village’s local marine creatures and the effects of tourism activities on their breeding must be taken up. Only then can solutions be offered.”
 
