Kolhapur: Elected representatives are known and meant to work towards the welfare of the people. However, a Shiv Sena  ,   Kshirsagar, seems to be doing the opposite.

 The city police recently started a drive to enforce use of helmets for two-wheeler riders by making it compulsory and imposing fine on those ignoring the rule. The move intends to ensure safety of citizens and reduce fatality rates during accidents.
 
 Opposing this new rule, Kshirsagar has come up with a bizarre logic stating “it is not appropriate to implement the law in the city as roads in city are not wide and the bikers can move with slow speed in the city”. He also threatened to start an agitation against the police department if it compels the two-wheeler rides to wear helmets.
 
 According to the Sena leader, the police should instead focus on regularising traffic in the city and ensuring its smooth flow.
 
 “Roads in Kolhapur are not wide like the ones in Pune and Mumbai. People also do not have to travel long to reach from on spot to other like they have to do in cities. Hence asking bikers to use helmets will be of less use and more of obstruction for them while driving. We are not against using helmets but instead the police department should focus on their work of maintaining law and order. They should keep a check on criminal activities instead of wasting energy on implementing the compulsory   rule,” he said.
 
 “Police should first spread awareness among people. They should discuss it with the people's representatives. After discussing and checking with people what they feel about the rule, they should decide on its implementation. Suddenly taking a stand to implement the rule of using helmets is not acceptable. We had organised morchas in Kolhapur against the government when the government agencies attempted to implement rule of using compulsory helmet. We will not hesitate to come on the road if police department continues with their drive from July 15,” he said.
 
 The Sena leader went to say that he has no objection in making this rule compulsory on national highway and ring roads in the city. “A number of people have raised objections against this drive and have registered their complaints with us. We have to come forward on their behalf and ask police not to implement the rule. We will launch the agitation if the police department starts the drive,” he said. 
 
 
