NEW DELHI: Still peeved at   vice president  's comments two weeks ago on dynastic succession being the norm in India,   president   said today that the "BJP believes in the politics of performance, while the Congress believes in  ".

 Shah made these comments in his address at the BJP national executive meeting today that was attended by all senior party leaders, Cabinet members and party workers. According to party leaders, 15 BJP chief ministers, six deputy chief ministers, 1,400 MLAs, 85 members of legislative councils, 280 ministers and 336 Parliamentarians were in attendance, IANS reported.
 
 Shah harshly criticised Rahul for what he says was a defence of dynastic politics by the Congress vice president. He talked about how President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi have reached their positions because of their work and performance and not dynasty.
 
 "The BJP believes in the politics of performance, the Congress (believes) in dynasty and the politics of appeasement," said Shah.
 
 Talking about Shah's speech at the party's national executive meeting, Union minister Piyush Goyal said the party president gave Rahul a befitting reply.
 
 "Rahul Gandhi ji has been undermining India these days, Amit Shah ji gave a befitting reply with facts," said Goyal at a press meeting on the sidelines of the party national executive meeting.
 
  The Congress vice president made his comments on dynasty in India when he was on a visit to the US addressing NRIs as well as audiences at top universities. 
 
 About two weeks ago, at the University of California, Berkeley, when an audience member asked him to reply to the charge of being part of dynasty politics, Rahul did say it was a "problem" and then added that "most of the country runs like this", with sons and daughters taking over the family profession or business. 
 
 "It's a problem in all political parties in India. Most of the country runs like this, so don't go after me, Akhilesh Yadav a dynast, Mr Stalin a dynast, Mr (Prem Kumar) Dhumal's son a dynast, so don't just go after me...Even Mr. Abhishek Bachchan is a dynast, also Mr Ambani, that's what happens in India," said Rahul.
 
 The Congress leader had been very scathing about the BJP as well in his Berkeley speech, blaming the party and Modi for the "violence, anger and the politics of polarisation (that) have raised their ugly head in India".
 
 The BJP was in uproar after Rahul's comments. They hit back by claiming that Rahul was defending dynastic succession. 
 
 A day after Rahul's comments, BJP president Shah indicated Rahul was a "failed leader" and claimed nobody listens to him.
 
 "Failed leaders run off to the US to lecture, as no one listens to them back home," said Shah, without naming the Congress vice president.
 
  Smriti Irani called Rahul a "failed dynast" and said Indian democracy runs on merit.
 
 "It shows the failed strategy of Rahul. That he's going to an international stage to speak about his failed political journey in a country where people didn't accept him," said Irani.
 
 
