AHMEDABAD: Ahmedabad Janmarg Limited, which operates the Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) system, which conceived with the aim of easing   on city roads, has not only failed to attract enough passengers but has itself led to traffic jams at several places, by the shrinking of road width.

 Sources in AJL said that losses are rising and are expected to cross Rs 70 crore. AJL officials said the losses are mainly because AJL is unable to add passengers. AJL passenger numbers have remained constant, at 1.40 lakh per day, despite the   now was covering the full 89km as was initially planned.
 
 Officials in AJL said BRT ridership in the last three year has seen a fall, with the number of daily passengers going from 1.6 lakh to 1.4 lakh. AJL officials said the fall was also directly related to the shuttle (shared) rickshaws operating parallel to the BRT.
 
 For example, to go from Shivranjani to Nava Vadaj, the parallel shared rickshaw service was available in less time than the compared to BRT. Officials said shared rickshaws were similarly operating between Ghuma and Iskcon Crossroads.
 
 Official said that part from passenger traffic falling, operation costs have also risen because of AC buses being introduced. AJL presently has 223 scheduled buses with a total fleet size of 250.
 
 AMC standing committee chairman Pravin Patel said, “The bus services are limited and the routes have remained the same. We had plans to introduce more routes, but these have not been increased and as a result passenger traffic has remained constant. Operating costs are increasing but revenue had remained the same, as a result losses are increasing.”
 
 Officials said Ahmedabad Municipal Transport Service (AMTS) is also eating into BRT passenger traffic. On stretches where BRT vehicles run parallel to AMTS buses, there are fewer takers for the former. Better frequency and lower fares lead passengers to prefer the AMTS over BRT.
 
 Further, AJL officials said that when D Thara was municipal commissioner, she moved AMTS buses into the BRT corridor, thus raising the availability of buses from the BRT lanes. However, not a single route has been added to the BRT network since then.
 
 
