TRICHY: A day after the online sale of sand commenced in two quarries in Trichy, the sale of sand at another quarry in Kariamanickam through the old token system came to a halt after the local truck owners refused to allow vehicles from other areas to take sand in the quarry. 

 The truck owners and drivers from Kariamanickam village near   intercepted around 100 vehicles that proceeded towards the quarry in the village to take sand on Saturday morning. 
 
 The trucks were diverted from a quarry in Musiri where they were originally allowed to take sand as per the old token system. 
 
 “We were issued tokens till June 30 to take sand in the quarry in Musiri. When our turn came today (Saturday), a PWD assistant engineer asked us to take sand in the quarry in Kariamanickam. He also assured to inform the officials there to allow us to take the sand. But the villagers blocked the trucks before the quarry and refused to allow us take sand,” said a driver from Musiri, N Kandasamy. 
 
 Even though the sale of sand to trucks which registered through www.tnsand.in and mobile application ‘TNsand’ commenced in two quarries in   and   across Kollidam river on Friday, PWD had a plan to allow the sand to the trucks who were given token system till June 30. 
 
 Though the local trucks owners in Kariamanickam were not against the sale of sand through the old token system, they registered their protest on Saturday for allowing the trucks from other areas to quarry in their village while they were being denied sand from July 1. 
 
 “We have no objection in allowing the trucks to take sand. But we need an explanation from the PWD as to why they stopped us from taking sand in the quarry from last Saturday. We were waiting for the officials to meet us and bring out a solution,” said a lorry owner R Anandhan from Kariamanickam.
 
 Repeated attempts to contact the executive engineer, PWD , mining and monitoring division R Ramachandran went in vain.
 
 It may be recalled that the district administration said that the process was on to reopen the nine more quarries in the district for the sale of sand through online registration soon.
 
