CHENNAI: Three out of 10 Indians have high   levels putting them at risk of cardiac diseases, data from Metropolis Healthcare, a pathology centre has revealed on the eve of the World Heart Day. 

 The lab analysed samples of 2,33,470 people between the age of 20 and 80 across the country for lipid profile. On Thursday, the lab announced that while half of them had low levels of the good cholesterol or HDL, two in every five had high levels of bad cholesterol of LDL.
 
 In Chennai, more than 8% of the people have very high levels of cholesterol and at least two out 10 are on the borderline. What was more worrying was that nearly one in ten has either high or very high levels of the bad cholesterol.
 
 Metropolis Healthcare head Dr   said lifestyle, lack of exercise, junk food, increased stress level and smoking has pushed up risk of heart diseases.
 
 Most senior doctors say they aren’t surprised by the numbers. “High levels of cholesterol have been one of the leading causes of heart diseases in the country,” said diabetologist Dr RM Anjana. “Nevertheless, the numbers will be far higher in epidemiological studies compared to data from labs, where many people could be on medications,” she said. 
 
 Meanwhile, another survey by   life 2017, which aimed to understand the barriers to heart health, among 1,306 respondents across Delhi, Mumbai, Lucknow, Hyderabad, Chennai and Kolkata found long working hours, work stress, lack of sleep and long travel were key reasons.
 
 In Chennai, 85% of people said temptation for food comes in their way of putting efforts towards having a healthy heart. Studies have also shown that most people in the city eat high amount of carbohydrates such as rice and sugar and low levels of protein-rich food. While 80% also complained that long working hours and work stress prevent them from making efforts towards healthy practices such as exercise, 72% of them blamed it on distraction from phones and tablets.
 
 But more than 6 out of 10 people pointed out that the city does not have adequate space walking or exercising. Mumbai-based endocrinologist Dr Shashank Joshi said while there is a rising awareness about heart health, compliance and action is a big area of concern in India.
 
 Studies have shown that active lifestyle, which includes daily chores at home like cleaning, moping and gardening can reduce the risk of heart diseases and death. 
 
