NEW DELHI: Metro services on the snag-prone   of   were once again hit on Wednesday evening due to a technical  , which led to packed trains running painfully slow with thousands of passengers stranded at the stations.

 The problem occurred in Dwarka area of the Dwarka Sector 21-Noida City Centre/Vaishali line, due to which train services on the entire corridor were affected for more than an hour during evening rush hour.
 
 A   (DMRC) spokesperson said that train services were affected between Janakpuri West to Dwarka section of Line-3 to undertake immediate repair of overhead equipment (OHE) wire which was broken as a bird dropped a metallic wire on it, resulting in flashing, due to which the wire snapped.
 
 As the snag happened during peak rush hour at 5.40, there was bunching and hold up of trains on the entire corridor. DMRC claimed that restoration work was started immediately to minimise the impact on train services.
 
 “This incident occurred between Dwarka and Dwarka Mor section on Up line (going from Noida to Dwarka-21). Immediate restoration work was undertaken by OHE team on this line, while single line services were continued through Down line on this section, to keep the entire line running and prevent impact on rest of the line,” the spokesperson said.
 
 Many passengers complained that there were no announcements at stations and there were no trains in sight. “I was stuck at Mandi House station for nearly half-an-hour before a train arrived, which too was completely packed with passengers,” said Mukesh Khanna, another commuter.
 
 The situation was worse at busy stations such as Rajiv Chowk, which are always overcrowded during peak hours even when train services are normal. “The station was so crowded that the queue to enter the station had spilled up to Palika Bazar. There was no space to stand comfortably inside the station also once I managed to enter it,” said Saurav Banerjee, another commuter.
 
 “Trains stopped at each station for 10 to 15 minutes. It took around half an hour for the train to cross just two stations,” said Gaurav Kumar, another commuter. “Also, trains were arriving very late at the Rajiv Chowk station, leading to huge crowding on the platforms,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, the corporation claimed that it carried out one of the fastest restoration work of OHE during peak hours and normal movement on both lines was restored 6.50pm onwards. The backlog of the higher number of trains during peak hour meant that even though both the lines were restored, it took more time for services to completely stabilise.
 
 The Blue Line, the busiest corridor of the Delhi Metro network is much more prone to technical snags compared to the other corridors. According to DMRC, the reason behind the unusually high occurrence of snags on this corridor is because it is mostly elevated and more exposed to elements and pollution than other corridors.
 
