PUNE:When   protested against an elderly man driving on the wrong side in Aundh, he was met with a rude, “Mind your own business. Who are you to tell us?” 

 The man in question was driving his grandson from school in Aundh during the rush hour. The man’s thoughtless actions had a ripple effect, Vedanarayan said, with many bikers taking to the pavement to escape the consequent snarl. 
 
 “I told him that driving on the wrong side poses a risk to his grandson’s safety,” Vedanarayan said. 
 
 His advice was met with scorn. “He just snapped at me to mind my own business, and told me that he can take care of their safety,” Vedanarayan said.
 
 At the end of his tether, Vedanarayan started noting down the car’s registration number. The elderly man became belligerent. “He asked me in an aggressive tone what I would do with it. I reported it to the local traffic police, but I don’t know what action was taken,” he added. 
 
 It’s not just bikes or cars. Vedanarayan has seen even school buses driving on the wrong side. “This puts schoolchildren at risk. I confronted the errant drivers. Some did not care, while others tried to mend their ways only when I threatened to report them to their school authorities. They tried to get back on the right side,” he said. 
 
 Across town in Vimannagar, wrong-side driving has been rampant, especially since a new traffic was implemented in the area last December, making a number of thoroughfares one-way. Despite police presence, motorists spare no opportunity to whizz past on the wrong side. Far from being contrite when confronted, the errant drivers instead opt for an aggressive tack. Or just run away.
 
 “Those who drive on the wrong side do not seem to care about violating traffic rules. That’s my observation at least, whenever I protested against anyone driving on the wrong side. One such day, a vehicle with a commercial number plate, probably attached to a taxi service, was similarly breaking rules. The car injured a woman pedestrian while it was reversing up the wrong side. Far from stopping to help her, the driver instead made his escape. Fortunately, we noted down the number and reported it to the police,” says  , a Vimannagar resident.
 
 “I used to be very strict about people driving down the wrong side of the road, and so I would confront such people about their behaviour. They used to react with disdain and contempt, and I would get very upset. My wife advised me not to lose any sleep over such people and that they will never change. I just gave up,” said Solapur Road resident   with a helpless chuckle.
 
 
