MUMBAI: “Meeting Nidhi was an amazing experience. I am very happy to find a close friend in her. We shared our experiences on that unfortunate day. She was grateful that I clicked her picture and shared it. That helped her family know she was alive. I hope she joins work and starts flying again soon,” said Georgian journalist Ketevan Kardava, who clicked the post-blast image of Jet Airways flight attendant  . The photograph went viral last year, making Chaphekar the face of the Brussels terror attack. 

 Chaphekar and Kardava spent a day with each other in Brussels. Chaphekar, Amit Motwani, the other Jet crew member injured in the attack, and the family of Raghavendran Ganesan, the only Indian to be killed in the blasts, were invited to Brussels to be part of the ceremony to mark the first anniversary of the terror attack on Wednesday. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 On Tuesday, Chaphekar revisited the blast site at Zaventem airport. She could not hold back her tears while narrating her experience before the gathered media. 
 
 Raghavendran’s brother Chandrasekhar, who is in Brussels with his father, said, “We have been invited to Maelbeek metro station, where we will be observing silence at 9.10am along with the royal family. Thereafter, we will travel to the place of the memorial created for all the victims.” He said it would be a most difficult time for his father to be at the metro station. “But I will be around to support him.” 
 
 Chandrashekhar added that they did not venture out on Tuesday as they were distressed over the approaching blasts anniversary. The family will not be able to wait till March 24, when the Brussels government will plant 32 birch trees at the memorial in Sonian Forest, as they learned of the plan only recently.
 
  Chaphekar, who is in Brussels with husband Rupesh, met the royal family of Belgium on Monday. “We were there for almost half an hour. It was a wonderful experience,” she said. 
 
 Her day was packed with media interviews and revisiting the blast site. “I felt overwhelmed when I visited the site,” she said. Amit Motwani, Chaphekar’s colleague, said he has visited the city three times after the blasts for treatment.
 
  Kardava said Chaphekar and she were connected to each other by memories of the blast. “We saw the same things around us on March 22 last year. The feeling is the same.” Chaphekar is keen on meeting the other victim who was on the bench next to her in the post-blast photo.
 
 
