” (It was neither a deserted road, nor was it dark. But I was scared; scared of the pervert gaze...).

 The regular Indian woman encounters such experiences on almost a daily basis. But most of the times, she chooses not to speak about them, either due to the fear of the society or because of classical conditioning since childhood. To battle these ‘standards’ of the society and also help heal the women’s scars, city-based   has come up with ' ', a   experiment.
 
 
  
 Playback theatre, a form of improvisational theatre, is relatively untapped in the city. It invites people from the audience to narrate personal experiences that are then enacted by actors on stage. “It is largely used in areas that witness severe unrest or have refugees,” informs Dhanashree Heblikar from the group. However, Stree Tantra will focus majorly on women’s issues “This form helps audience relate to the experience and also acts as a healing agent. It can also be called a psychodrama, used in drama therapy, where people see their suppressed feelings and experiences unfold on stage. It gives them a sense of liberation,” adds Dhanashree, who performed with Nidhi Bhowmik, Payal Kawale, Kanika Kulshreshtha, Rashmi Gupta, Prashant Singh and Saqib Zia Khan on Thursday. 
 
  
 The group had organised a ‘Theatre for Therapy’ workshop in December last year, where Mostafa Kamal Jatra, a theatre person from Bangladesh, introduced them to playback theatre. “Since there are almost no groups doing this in Pune or Mumbai, we thought of experimenting with the form,” says Dhanashree. In this concept, a conductor helps the audience member narrate the incident to the actors as well as the crowd. Then, the same is discussed by the actors and musicians, post which it is enacted on stage. Actors and musicians get around a minute and a half to formulate ideas and 3-7 minutes to perform, depending on the length and impact of the story. 
 
 Not very long ago, another city-based theatre group, Natak Company, started doing shows of their improvisational play 'White Rabbit, Red Rabbit'. These solo performances have no rehearsals and the artiste is given the script on stage, just before performing. Ask Dhanashree how 'Stree Tantra' is different and she explains, “We have no written material in hand. We listen to the stories and enact them immediately. To do this, an artiste requires great observational skills and we have developed them over time.”
 
