KANNUR: On the fourth day of the 57th edition of the state school arts festival here, the focus shifted from art to a gruesome murder, dampening the spirit of the festival and turning the spotlight on Kannur's dark underbelly of political violence.

 The day began with the news of a hartal by the BJP following the murder of a party worker, which caused confusion whether the festival would be held, despite the authorities making it clear that the schedule would not be affected. Many could reach the festival venues with great difficulty .
 
 “It was with great difficulty that we reached the town. We witnessed an explosion and were asked to take another route to the venue. Later we were told that the police used teargas to disperse the mob protesting near the bus stand," said Saritha Devi, a teacher from Nirmala Bhavan Higher Secondary School, Thiruvananthapuram, who escorted the students participating in the Margam Kali. 
 
 “Is this the Kannur the leaders want to present before us?" This is a traumatic experience for the outsiders who have to survive without food or conveyance and such developments would affect the spirit of the festival, said Shanthappan C, father of a participant from Vazhuthakkad, Thiruvananthapuram. There were instances in which the participants had to face roadblocks, though they were later allowed to go, said Anoop C, a teacher from Kanhangad.
 
 But, those who came from outside Kannur were in a fix because of the non-availability of public transport.
 
 The transport committee made special arrangements to overcome the crisis and additional vehicles were used to bring the participants from the railway station. Facilities for accommodation were also arranged, said transport committee convener Naushad Poothappara.
 
 But the murder and the developments that followed dampened the spirit of the festival, said Kadannapally Ramachandran, minister for ports, who is also the chairman of the programme committee.
 
 “The murder was unfortunate, but the protesters could have avoided the hartal, which affected the people and also created a negative impression," he said.
 
 While the Kuchipudi competition for Higher Secondary (Girls) was going on at the Jawahar Municipal Stadium, people were watching from the gallery the sound and fury over the procession carrying the body of the slain BJP-RSS worker as it passed through the road in front of the main venue, a stone's throw away .
 
 “At the end of the day , we will forget the festival and even the murder but ultimately it would present a negative picture about the district among the people from outside Kannur, which the political leaders should have taken into account," said Sreeja and Madhavan, a couple from Thaliparamba, who came to the town to see the festival and were caught in the chaos.
 
