CHANDIGARH: Haryana chief minister   has asserted that his statement regarding sending his predecessor   behind bars was with reference to criminal investigations faced by the latter in other cases and not related to the the  , which was probing the grant of licences for change of land use in four villages of Gurugram.

 These submissions were made by the CM in an affidavit submitted before the   on Wednesday in response to a petition filed by Hooda, which had contended that he had to challenge the Dhingra commission report after Khattar had publicly announced to send him to jail.
 
 “Petitioner (Hooda) is already facing some criminal investigations, which have nothing to do with the subject matter of the commission and press statements attributed to me, as these merely had a reference to the on-going criminal investigations by the CBI,” Khattar has submitted in his two-page affidavit.
 
 Khattar also clarified that it was a bona fide and an honest decision based on the objective material, which he had personally examined, read, perused and understood for the purpose of formation of opinion that there existed an important issue involving a definite matter of public importance.
 
 “The decision on May 13, 2015, was taken by me after a careful examination of the objective material and upon being fully satisfied that the appointment of an independent commission of inquiry, whose report can be considered by the state government, was necessary,” the CM told the HC.
 
 Earlier on December 13, 2016, senior advocate and former Union minister Kapil Sibal, while appearing for Hooda, had submitted that his client had to approach the HC only when Khattar had publically announced to send him to jail. Referring to some media reports, quoting Khattar in this regard, Sibal had told the court that it was only after such statements that Hooda had realized that there was something against him in the report, which might harm his reputation in public.
 
 Hooda had been alleging that the orders to constitute Justice Dhingra commission were taken by Khattar on May 13, 2015, prompted solely by malice and to pursue his party’s political vendetta with a clear intention of portraying him in bad light.
 
 Meanwhile, during the resumed hearing of the case on Wednesday, Sibal reiterated that the May 13, 2015, decision taken by the Haryana CM to constitute the panel under commission of inquiry act was without any basis. He further stated that even on May 14, when the notification was issued, there was no reference to the constitution of the panel.
 
 Sibal submitted that there had to be some opinion and necessity on the basis of which Dhingra panel was constituted.
 
