DEHRADUN: After the crushing defeat in the recent  ,   and some   opine that it was time to reduce the dependence on just a few faces. In the assembly polls, Congress, which had won 32 seats in 2012 and won 4 more seats in bypolls, has been reduced to 11 seats and according to insiders some serious steps were required to check the downfall.

 "Almost 90 per cent of senior Congress leaders have already joined the BJP. Barring   and   – both in their 70s – the party lacks seasons campaigners in the state assembly,” political expert Jay Singh Rawat told TOI.
 
 He claimed that it was time for the party to rethink its strategy, work on new plans and execute them on the ground level.
 
 "The party badly needs a new face. A new face which can boost the party leaders and motivate them,” said Rawat, who believes that enough opportunity has been given to Harish Rawat and Kishore Upadhyay.
 
 "If we go through the developments within the Congress in the last three years, majority of its seniors like  ,  , Amrita Rawat, Harak Singh Rawat and Subodh Uniyal are now in the BJP. Out of the remaining four seniors Kishore and Harish have been defeated. There was too much dependence of these two leaders and it has back-fired on the Congress. For its revival it’s imperative for the party to look for alternate measures,” said the political expert.
 
 A Congress insider was of the view that rather than mourning the defeat the party needs to move ahead and start the preparations for the 2019 polls. “But the problem remains that who will show the direction and guide us on the right path. Who will decide the candidates so that we can hit the preparation early,” said a senior Congress leader on ground of anonymity. He was of the view that late declaration of candidates had adversely impact the party campaign in Uttarakhand.
 
 "There were close to two dozen seats, where the candidates were declared at the very last minute and they had less than 25 days for the campaign. In the hills, it is not possible to cover all the villages of a particular constituency within such short span and it is why our candidates and party suffered,” he added.
 
 When contacted over the issue, Congress state spokesperson Mathura Dutt Joshi told TOI, “We gave ticket to a number of youngsters but it did not work out. Soon we are holding a meeting of candidates to review the performance. After that the required changes will be made to strengthen the party.”
 
