The imposing Afzal Darwaza, which defied the great Musi deluge of 1908, could not withstand the onslaught of bureaucracy after the merger of Hyderabad with the Indian Union. It was bulldozed unceremoniously in 1954, the same year several landmarks of Hyderabad were brought down. The real motive behind the demolition is not clear, but it robbed Hyderabad of its heritage sheen forever.

 Afzal Darwaza was one of the 13 gates to the walled city of Hyderabad and where soldiers kept a watch on people entering and exiting the city .It was the last gate to be built, with its construction necessitated by the building of a new bridge (Nayapul) across river Musi at Afzalgunj.
 
 The darwaza, along with Nayapul and the  , was constructed by the Nizam V Mir Tahniyath Ali Khan, better known as  . The bridge served two purposes, as a new road access for civilians and an access control for the ruler to keep tabs on the movement of his prime minister and the British Resident. According to historians, the Afzal Darwaza was the entry and exit gate used by VVIPs.
 
 Archival data reveals that Afzal Darwaza was constructed during 1859-1861. The Afzalgunj mosque was built a few years later. Incidentally, the Nizam V also renovated the Char Kaman (four arches leading to Charminar) in 1858.The arches were built in 1595 by the   Though the city had 13 gates, Afzal Darwaza was the star attraction as it stood majestically with huge arch, an imposing tower and watch towers on either side.
 
  It was also immortalized by royal photographer Raja Deen Dayal when he clicked the  , Mahbub Ali Khan, with an army of soldiers and nobles, receiving Lord Hardinge of Penshurst. Old photographs also show the Afzal Darwaza standing tall amid the rubble that was left of buildings and the Nayapul after the Musi flood.
 
 Afzal Darwaza was part of the grand wall surrounding the city and extending from  .The wall was rough, but strong and had provision for soldiers to walk on it. The work on the wall began soon after the Asaf Jah rule began in 1671. A part of the wall was demolished during the regime of the Nizam VI. But the real destruction happened only after Independence.
 
