VARANASI:   Congress Committee president  , along with many other party leaders, was detained and taken to police lines when they were trying to reach the troubled   (BHU) campus on Sunday evening. He demanded sacking of BHU vice-chancellor for the alleged brutality committed on girl students.

 After landing at LBS International Airport at Babatpur, Babbar, along with many other senior leaders including PL Punia and Ajay Rai moved towards BHU to meet the students admitted to trauma center after suffering injuries in police action on Saturday late night. The cops present at the airport tried to stop them but the Congress leaders foiled their bid and moved ahead. Similar bids were made to stop Babbar at some other points. Finally, when he reached Gilat Bazar crossing the cops present there stopped his motorcade. The Congress workers blocked the Varanasi-Lucknow highway and staged massive demonstration but the police caught Babbar and took him to police lines.
  
 Reacting to the police action, Babbar told TOI, “It is shocking that I am not being allowed to reach BHU to meet the injured girls and know their problem. They (policemen) started a bid to stop me from airport.” He said that it is unfortunate that when the entire world had started celebrating Daughter’s Day the girl students of BHU were being brutalized by the men in khaki inside their hostels for no fault.
 
  
  
  
 Holding the BHU administration and VC responsible for the violence on campus and assaulting of girl students, Babbar demanded immediate sacking of the VC. He also targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi and said, “Being the local MP, Modi is equally responsible for this brutality. It is surprising that Modi changed his route to reach the temple for offering prayer to Goddess Durga but did not find it necessary to meet the girls, who were on stir demanding proper security for them.”
  
 Babbar asked whether it is the culture of RSS to treat our daughters this way. He alleged that Modi is deliberately trying to create a panic among the opponents. “Anyone trying to protest against the works, decisions and policies of Modi government is either being canned, sent to jail or a CBI probe is being ordered against them.”
 
