NEW DELHI: The Delhi   on Friday stepped in to “avoid ambiguity” in   admissions and allowed private unaided schools to invite applications on the basis of their own criteria plus the   norm brought in by the Delhi government.

 “To avoid any ambiguity, it is directed that the parents will fill the form in the prescribed format and the criteria mentioned by the respective schools. The format of the form will also contain the criteria mentioned in the notification dated January 7 regarding neighbourhood,”   noted in his order, setting in motion the   process.
 
 HC, however, made it clear that the scrutiny of the submitted forms in these schools, allotted land by DDA, will be subject to further orders from the court. It posted petitions on admissions for further hearing on January 19. HC also issued notice to the directorate of education, DDA, and the lieutenant governor seeking their replies by January 17.
 
 The court is hearing a batch of petitions, which includes two by school bodies and others by some parents and their wards. The pleas have challenged the DoE’s recent circular on guidelines for this year’s admissions.
 
 The school associations have also challenged a condition in DDA’s allotment letters giving land to some private unaided schools, under which the institutes have to reserve 75% seats for students in the neighbourhood. The two circulars of December 19, 2016 and January 7, 2017 have enforced the allotment clause and restricted admission in schools on DDA land to their locality, a fact assailed by schools and parents as violation of their fundamental right to send children to schools of their choice.
 
 Earlier in the day, Justice V K Rao recused from hearing the matter saying that he has a school-going child. The case was transferred back to Justice Manmohan who told the government its “eleventh hour schedule upsets everyone”. 
 
 Justice Manmohan reminded the government that courts “interfere in the matter courtesy you (government), but we become the villains,” pointing out how it will now have to give priority to this matter over other issues.
 
 During brief arguments, the two school bodies argued that the circular creates a distinction between schools granted land by DDA and other private unaided institutions. By imposing neighbourhood as a criteria, the LG and the government are not allowing diversity amongst students, they argued.
 
 But Delhi government said that in any case the neighbourhood policy includes distance criteria as a “priority gradation system” where first preference would be given to children within 1km radius of the school, followed by those residing within 1-3 km, and if seats still remain vacant, to those living beyond 6km. 
 
 It also assured court that there is no restriction even now on parents to apply for admission to any school.
 
 
