MUMBAI: The vulnerable status of   in and around Mumbai and Thane can be judged by two facts: one, the ease with which they are encroached upon; and two, that they do not enjoy special protection under global conventions to which India is a signatory.

 The pace of degradation in such habitats has been rapid despite the matter being brought to the attention of authorities. Environmental activist Rohit Joshi, convener of the Yeoor Environmental Society, recently noticed rampant dumping of debris in the mangroves lining   in the Kopri area near Swami Samartha road on January 15.
 
 On January 20, he filed complaints with the Thane collector's office and a state-level  . "This is a classic case of reclamation and encroachment of a wetland by politicians and land mafia. To lure slum dwelling voters, the local politician has built an illegal road here and now this dumping of at least 200 truckloads of debris may lead to further widening of the road. No action has been taken by authorities on my complaint until now," he said.
 
 Jayram Gowda, deputy conservator of forests (mangrove cell) and member secretary of the Wetlands Committee, acknowledged that he has received the complaint. “I will forward it to the concerned authority. After that I will ask for the spot inspection and produce the results before the committee for necessary action,” he said.
 
  
  
 
 
 Apart from hosting winter migrant birds, the Kopri mangroves provide the required reed beds and inter-tidal habitat for waterfowl and the Rallidae family of birds which includes rails, crakes and coots, said bird expert Avinash Bhagat. While Maharashtra government has declared the northern part of Thane creek as a flamingo sanctuary, he has witnessed systematic degradation of this wetland.
 
 “First, they put bunds to stop the creek water from coming in. This degrades the reed and wetland habitat. Then they put one layer of debris, followed by a layer of red soil after some days. Within a few days, grass grows on it. Thus a wetland is converted into a wasteland so it can be up for grabs,” explained Bhagat.
 
 Bhagat pointed out that the area does not enjoy any special status as a wetland due to pressure from the construction lobby. Incidentally, while there are 26 sites in India designated under the global Ramsar convention for conservation and sustainable use of wetlands, there is not a single one in Maharashtra.
 
 “The construction lobby has ensured that despite having 1.5 lakh birds in it, Thane creek remains out of the Ramsar site list. Instead, the government has put three dumping grounds inside it and is attempting a fourth one now,” said environmental crusader and project director of NGO Vanashakti, Stalin Dayanand.
 
 It's not just birds but also a variety of amphibians, reptiles and mammals like the elusive jungle cat and jackal that thrive in these wetland and mangrove ecosystems. Snake lover and rescuer Akshay Dange recalls the sight of a Russel's viper female with more than two dozen young ones in the mangroves adjoining the Ghansoli creek four months ago. However, vast stretches of mangroves in the area have since been cleared and snake sightings have become a thing of the past.
 
 
