Gurgaon was immersed in a wave of creative performances last week when theatre troupes from different countries presented the best of their work at the  . The eight-day festival, which took place from February 3 to 10 in Delhi, Gurgaon and Chandigarh, featured musical as well as non-verbal puppet shows by puppeteers from  ,  , Indonesia, Afghanistan, Sweden and Iran, among other countries.

 Many Gurgaonwallahs came to watch shows like 'The Lantern Festival' by the theatre troupe from Taiwan, 'Special Creatures' by artists from Spain, and 'The Theft Of Sita' by a theatre group from Indonesia.
 
 
 
 
  
  The story of the little old man: Marionetteatern performs for the audience (BCCL)
 
 
 With laughing kids and their parents soaking in some wisdom imparted by three clowns and a puppet, the show Apples And Oranges, performed by the Ishara Puppet Theatre Group, carried aspects driven by morality. Directed by  , the musical – presented through mime – wittily showcased the tolerant and intolerant times we live in through four stories. The stories were focused on issues we usually see around us, like food, violence, matrimonial columns and street children aspiring to go to school, and although presented in a fun, non-nagging manner, each ended with a message inspired by the words of Rumi and Timothy Keller.
 
 
  
  Clownfie: An artist takes a selfie during the performance (BCCL)
 
 
 With Epicentre now being shut, the festival, which, till last year, would be held at Epicentre, was organized at a relatively smaller auditorium at a private hospital in Gurgaon. But it did not miss its loyal audience which has been attending the festival for years now. “This is the seventh time I’m here. Earlier, I used to go to Delhi, but then we shifted to Gurgaon. I am a fan and both my child and I enjoy watching puppet shows. Yes, they could have chosen a better place to perform, but I don’t think they’d have faced much problems performing here as well,” said Meeta from the audience. But did they? Said Dadi Pudumjee, “We performed here (at the hospital auditorium) for the first time, but received a decent response. It was easier when we held festivals there (Epicentre), and it was relatively difficult here. We had to push our way through to direct our audience to this place, but hopefully, we will perform to a larger audience in Gurgaon next year.”
 
 There were some first-timers, too. Rishabh Sharma, a Gurgaon resident, said, "When I learnt that this will be happening in the auditorium of a hospital, I thought they’re performing for the patients here."
 
  — Shambhavi.Modgill@timesgroup.com
 
 
