Mohali: The child protection department of Mohali under the ‘Safe School Vahan Policy’ has checked over 30 schools on Monday morning and issued challans to 15 buses that were flouting norms.

 The bus attendants were found without uniform, the first-aid kit in some buses had expired and even the driver lacked required experience. The CCTV cameras installed in some were not working. Even if they were working, there was no one to monitor them.
 
 Last week, deputy commissioner Gurpreet Kaur Sapra, taking serious note of slackness, had ordered the child protection officer to conduct a series of inspections in various schools and school buses ensuring safety of children.
 
 Deputy director of child rights commission Rajwinder Singh said, “Our team is checking the school buses at various districts of Punjab. Recently, we did surprise checks in Ludhiana schools where the the buses were found tossing the rules in air. On Monday, we have issued challans to 15 school buses flouting norms.”
 
 Singh added, “We are conducting more rigourous checks after the Ryan school incident. Parents should also be aware about the same and should keep in touch with school about the driver and other staff of the school who deal with the kids.”
 
 TOI too conducted reality checks where it was observed that most of the school buses plying on the roads of Mohali were either without female attendant or the male attendants were without uniforms. Most of the buses were also being driven recklessly on the roads violating the speed limits.
 
 Sapra had stated, “Strict action must be taken to make buses safer for children. We need to create awareness among the school bus operators to get the antecedents of the drivers and attendants verified by the police. I have directed the child protection officer to conduct the checks and submit the report.”
 
 DC had also issued instructions to schools that no staff should be allowed to use washrooms meant for students. Also a lady attendant is mandatory in every school bus ferrying children especially girls. DC added the instructions have been issued regarding measures to prevent child abuse cases in the district.
 
 Sources said, the next target of the department are over-loaded autorickshaws and other vehicles that goes unchecked all the time under the nose of traffic police.
 
 
