GURUGRAM: The only people who on Monday appeared completely clueless about the huge bonfire near   in Sector 9 on Sunday, where waste was burnt brushing off National Green Tribunal ( ) guidelines, was  .

 Residents alleged the waste was put to fire by sanitation workers contracted by MCG. “We saw some sanitation workers lighting up the huge mound of waste. And this is not the only time we’ve seen this. We see contractual sanitation workers burning waste quite often,” said Rakesh Mishra, a resident of Sector 9. 
 
 Others claimed they couldn’t venture out of their homes for hours due to the smoke. “The smoke engulfed the entire area and it was difficult to venture out. It took one hour for the fire to settle, and even then, we couldn’t venture out of our homes due to the acrid smoke, even after it was doused,” said Suresh K Yadav, another resident.
 
 Rachna Pandit, also a Sector 9 resident, said, “Rampant   takes place along the highways and areas near it. This is all due to the absence of a proper mechanism to compost dry leaves. It is shocking that such a massive fire could have been lit inside a residential area. It shows MCG’s inefficiency in preventing violation of environmental norms, which leads to myriad health problems.”
 
 A MCG official said, “We have no information about any waste burning incident in Sector 9. However, if it has indeed taken place, we’ll carry out a probe and make sure strict action is taken against the offenders. 
 
 In April 2015, NGT passed an order instructing police commissioners of Faridabad and Gurgaon to deploy guards on both sides of the Aravali range in the two cities. A penalty of Rs 5,000 could be charged and vehicles involved seized, the order said.
 
 Experts said waste burning leads to emission of greenhouse gases. “Burning waste releases greenhouse gases and   such as carbon monoxide, nitrous oxide and sulphur dioxide, which severely affect human health. Also, garbage burning in the open contributes to 5-11% of the direct particulate matter in the air in our country. It’s a very serious issue and authorities need to take immediate action,” said Jitender Bhadana, a green activist.
 
 “A few days ago, huge quantities of waste were burnt in DLF Phase 2, near the national highway. We have also reported waste burning incidents from Faridabad. That no action has been taken in any of the cases clearly highlights the inefficiency of the corporations to follow NGT’s order. The green tribunal put a strict ban on burning of waste in the open, some two years ago,” said Jasmine Thakur, who has been raising concern over the issue in Gurgaon and Faridabad.
 
 
