NEW DELHI: The replacement of the Gender Sensitisation Committee Against Sexual Harassment (GSCASH) with a UGC-ordained   (ICC) is seen by a section of students and teachers as a   that gives the university administration more control and results in a lack of transparency because of inadequate representation from various sections of society. 

 The university, however, says it was acting as per   when it issued a notification on Tuesday on the formation of an ICC with former chief proctor Vibha Tandon as chairperson. But many in the students’ and teachers' associations say the move will reduce checks and balances in the ICC as there is no provision to check conflict of interest.
 
 The GSCASH, seen as a model for several institutions in India and abroad, was set up after the Supreme Court laid down guidelines on the prevention and deterrence of sexual harassment at the workplace.
 
 The body, comprising of 23 members elected and nominated from all sections, came into being in 1999. It has inquired into over 40 cases of harassment annually. 
 
 The committee also inquires into sexual harassment complaints. But with the ICC comprising only three elected student representatives and six teachers and officials nominated by the vice-chancellor, critics have raised concerns about its independence.
 
 Several teachers have also rejected the claim that GSCASH violates UGC norms. Teachers said “Saksham guidelines” on gender issues were based on GSCASH norms.
 
 Economics professor Surajit Mazumdar, who along with at least six others dissented at the council meeting, raised concerns about the “hurry” to replace GSCASH with the ICC “without prior consultation.”
 
 The professor believes the ICC’s composition gives the authorities much greater power and calls it regressive “as it makes it less secure to complain and hope for redressal in cases of sexual harassment”.
 
 However   registrar Pramod Kumar said, the decision was taken in compliance with the UGC orders. “The ICC has been created after much deliberation and discussion covering all aspects… it is an evolved system,” he said. Kumar also responded to allegations about the possibility of bias and high-handedness. “Earlier, elected members would be from particular organisations with their own political agendas. But with nominated members there will be an assurance of impartiality when dealing with sexual harassment cases,” Kumar said.
 
 
