KOLKATA: If you are a   in the city, tired of   and  , the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) has brought you some   Major mobile phone operators engaged in fibre cable-laying for their 4G network or decongestion of the existing cable routes have been asked to suspend their ongoing work because of the fees they owe the municipality, opening up the possibility of an improvement in road conditions. 

 A few other utility services, including power, will need to suspend their work as well, according to a circular issued by KMC commissioner Khalil Ahmed.
 
 Ahmed, who a month ago had asked the KMC revenue department officials to augment revenue following a severe funds crunch, has issued a stop-work notice to the   who owe over Rs 100 crore to the KMC. 
 
 Though the municipal commissioner, in his circular, has not specified or identified the utility agencies, sources in the KMC confirmed the civic top brass has targeted reputed mobile operators, some of whom are major defaulters. According to sources in the KMC civil engineering department, of the Rs 80 crore which mobile operators owe to the KMC, the civic body will need to realize Rs 50 crore from a private telecom major.
 
  This private firm has been engaged in laying 4G cable network across the city for more than five years, a KMC official said.
 
 However, the civic body would not have reacted sharply in this regard, had a section of KMC officials in the civil engineering department not smelt a rat in the process of realization of mandatory fees from the mobile operators. “We have been regularly issuing demand notices asking the mobile operators to clear outstanding dues, but these operators have not paid any heed. On contrary, they contested our claims by showing fake documents that they did not dig in some stretches for which we had raised our demand notices. On inquiry, we found some KMC civil engineering department officials had helped them register false claims,” said an official on condition of anonymity.
 
 As the matter finally reached KMC chairperson Mala Roy’s chamber, a worried Roy took up the matter with the municipal commissioner early this month, asking him to do the needful at the earliest. Ahmed did not want to waste time and issued the stop-work notice till further order. 
 
 “We need to realize outstanding dues from utility agencies. We can’t compromise on revenue which we badly need to keep essential services for the citizens intact,” Ahmed said. According to a senior KMC official, the civic body will withdraw the ‘stop work’ notice after realization of dues.
 
