DHARWAD: "She was an amazing, extraordinary singer who could go beyond the raga and swara and reveal the real emotion in music. Once on stage she would forget herself and get deeply involved in music. In due course, she would also make the listeners lose themselves in music," said noted Hindustani vocalist Arati Ankalikar Tikekar, who spent years studying under doyen of Hindustani music  . 

 Speaking to TOI from Mumbai, Arati recalled her association with Kishori tai, as Amonkar was fondly called, and said she met her as a 17-year-old girl seeking to pursue a career in classical music. "In 1980, I was awarded the   scholarship. I was extremely impressed by Kishori tai's talent. I wanted to learn music from her and my parents took me to her house. She asked me to sing for about 10 minutes. Musicologist Vamanrao Deshpande recommended to   that she accept me as her disciple. I was nervous initially but when she said yes, there was no limit to my joy. She was a strict disciplinarian while teaching music and a motherly figure when it came to showering affection and care on her students. I had the opportunity to travel by air for the first time when Kishori tai took me to Delhi with her for a concert," Arati recalled. 
 
  She said Kishori's music touched the soul. "We worshipped her as Goddess Saraswati. On Guru Poornima, we used to worship her at her home and she would prepare dishes for us and serve us like a mother," Arati said. 
 
 Kishori Amonkar had special love for Dharwad, the hub of Hindustani classical music. She performed at the twin cities of Dharwad and Hubballi several times. The Dr Mallikarjun Mansur National Memorial Trust honoured her by presenting her the Mansur Samman in 2006. At the concert that followed the award ceremony, she started singing around 5am and went on till 8.30am. Kala Bhavan, the venue, was jam-packed till the end.
 
 The people of Dharwad saw another facet of Kishori when   invited her to perform during the university's silver jubilee celebrations in 1975-76. As she started singing, the wind and failure of the sound system irritated her. When the organizers failed to set things right, she refused to continue her concert and left the place in a huff.
 
