For soap addicts nothing can be more heartbreaking than their favourite shows going off-air at the peak of its popularity. From online petitions, to a deluge of phonecallsemails, fans pull out all stops to ensure a seasonal return of their shows. Keeping in mind their popularity quotient, some shows are now set for a comeback in a snazzier version with a brand new star-cast and a trendier twist to the storylines. With remixed versions of  ,  ?
  , Tenali Rama set to hit the screens, and more returns lined up, is it happy tidings for remote control junkies?
  
  SHOWS GET A MINT FRESH MAKEOVER
  
  Sample this: Chandrakanta ­ the massively popular fantasy show (130 episodes) that aired from 1994-96 makes a comeback in a glamourous version with more VFX, Prem Ya Paheli ­ Chandrakanta starring Kritika Kamra and Gaurav Khanna and yet another version being helmed by Ekta Kapoor; the much-loved sitcom Sarabhai Vs Sarabhai revolving around a south Mumbai Gujarati family makes a comeback in May in a web-series format (with all the main actors); Iss Pyaar Ko Kya Naam Doon? is re portedly set for a return starring Barun Sobti as Advay Singh Raizada in season 3 tentatively paired with Surveen Chawla, Diya Aur Baati Hum is returning as Tu Sooraj Main Saan jh Piyaji with Avinesh Rekhi and Riya Sharma in the leads. There's also buzz that Tenali Rama, Yeh Jo Hai Zindagi and Mungerilal Ke Haseen Sapne are all likely to see returns in revamped mode.
  
  OLD WINE SERVED IN A SPARKLING NEW BOTTLE
  
  Nothing works for Hindi GECs than replicating a tried and tested formula.So, if there's an already hit show format ready , it makes perfect business sense to give it a swanky makeover and serve it afresh. Nikhil Sinha, director of Prem Ya Paheli -Chandrakanta says, “I am fortunate to be doing a prequel to Chandrakanta, an iconic show. I am adding all the right elements in this show which the audience would like to see.“ Sumeet Mittal, producer of Tu Sooraj Main Saanjh Piyaji says, “It's a risk when you remake an old show. As the audiences audiences were loyal to Diya Aur Baati Hum , we feel a a well-knit storyline will certainly work for this show.“ Producer-actor JD Majethia says, “We revived Sarabhai.. taking in consideration the changes in audiences' viewing habits, essential when you are remaking a popular show.“
  
  
 
  
  STRONG DEMAND FROM VIEWERS
  
  What makes broadcasters, web portals, over the top service providers (OTT) so enthusiastic about crafting remakes of cult shows and risk comparison to the original? , Ajit Mohan, CEO of a popular OTT shares, “Our intent is to bring to audiences inspired content that goes on to define its specific genre. Sarabhai vs Sarabhai did exactly that some years ago, bringing Indian audiences a kind of sharp, witty and contemporary comedy that they had never seen before. The buzz around the show was so strong that we had to bring it back.“
  
  CREATIVE PLUS FOR ACTORS
  
  While soapmakers are aware of the creative risks they undertake when they remake a hit show, actors feel excited to reoprise an iconic role.Actor Kritika Kamra, who is essaying the role of Chandrakanta (earlier essayed by  ) shares, “I'm privileged to be doing this show. Since childhood, I was fascinated with the idea of being a princess and to actually play one for this show is a dream come true and considering the show had a phenomenal response in 90s, it is a great feeling to take up this role.“
  
  If these shows rake in the right numbers, who knows remakes could be the next TRP-tripping formula for Hindi GECs!
  
  
 
