KOCHI: After the police failed to register a case against a private telecom service provider who had dug up the corporation's road, the local body has now filed a complaint before the state police chief on Monday. In the complaint sent to  , the corporation secretary said that the city police have not registered a case though the civic body had furnished all details of the case. 

 On December 23, 2016, corporation authorities had sent a complaint to the city police commissioner requesting him take action against the telecom service provider who had illegally dug up its road. Then, mayor Soumini Jain and top officials visited the site at Jews Street and found that   had dug up the roads in the street.
 
 The road resurfaced under bituminized macadam and bituminized concreting (BMBC) method was dug up by the company without securing permission from the civic body. The private telecom firm damaged the road that had a five-year guarantee. "It is a grave offence. We had filed a complaint against the firm for damaging public property. But the police haven't registered any case so far. That's why we are giving the complaint to the state police chief," said corporation secretary Haritha V Kumar.
 
 "We had provided all the required details, including the name of the private telecom provider. Still, the police didn't register a case. This can be viewed as a wilful negligence on the part of police," stated the compliant.
 
 Meanwhile, city police commissioner M P Dinesh said that he was unaware of the complaint. "It has not been brought to my notice so far. If we have to register a case based on the complaint, there should be mala fide intention on the part of the alleged party," he said. Corporation authorities felt that the issue is of significance as people with criminal background were carrying out road digging works on behalf of private telecom firms. Corporation councillors have also raised similar complaints that private telecom companies were digging up roads without securing approval.
 
 "In the absence of proper checking by the civic body, most culprits escape. Authorities rarely check up on various road works," said councillor V P Chandran.
 
