CUNCOLIM: The 2012 assembly elections saw the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Rajan Kashinath Naik claiming the Cuncolim constituency by a margin of 1,313 votes. His closest rival Congress party’s Joaquim Alemao had won the seat for the Congress of the two previous tenures, but could not turn his winning hand into a hat-trick. 

 For the 2017 assembly elections, scheduled for February 4, the BJP is going with the sitting MLA. Whether he retains the seat will be known only after the results. As of now, the tide of sentiment in his constituency is flowing against him due to non-performance.
 
 In 2012, it was the division of votes between Alemao (6,425) and independent candidate John Inacio Monteiro (4,830) that helped Naik (7,738) win the seat.
 
 This elections, in Cuncolim, a multi-cornered fight has been laid out between the BJP’s Naik, Congress’ Clafasio Dias, Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP)  , Goa Vikas Party’s (GVP) John Inacio Monteiro, Shiv Sena’s (SS) Devendra Dessai and two independents — Alemao and Derick Dias.
 
 Clafasio is a former chairperson of the zilla panchayat, while Dessai is a former chairperson of the  . Gomes is a former bureaucrat, Monteiro an advocate, Alemao the former urban development minister and Derick the former sarpanch of Chandor.
 
 The constituency constitutes the villages of Macasana, Guirdolim, Chandor, Paroda and Cuncolim (municipal council) in the Salcete taluka as well as the villages of Ambaulim and Bali.
 
 The dynamics of politics in this constituency of the Salcete taluka largely depends on religion, caste and, to some extent, development. Interestingly, voters here agree that Joaquim Alemao, during his tenure, had ushered in developmental projects, despite which he lost the 2012 polls. 
 
 During the last five years there has been not much change, development-wise.
 
 In Cuncolim — the municipal area — the Christian and Hindu voters are almost balanced, and the Hindu votes are likely to be divided between the BJP, AAP and SS. 
 
 Gomes shares a good rapport with villagers across the spectrum of religion and caste, and is expected to rake in a sizeable number of Dessai votes, which otherwise would have gone to BJP. Besides, he will get the major chunk of Christian ‘gaunkar’ votes, which at the last hustings had gone to the BJP.
 
 In Cuncolim, the ‘gaunkarponn’ sentiment is very strong and was one of the reasons for Alemao losing in 2012. He was perceived as an ‘outsider’ as he resides in Varca in the Benaulim constituency. This time, though Alemao has improved his rapport with the people, it does not seem that it will make much of a difference, especially given the entry of ‘son of the soil’, Gomes. Monteiro will have his share of votes, too, as will Clafasio, who has been in touch with the voters as member of the zilla panchayat. 
 
 At the moment, there is a strong undercurrent in favour of AAP, and Gomes being announced as AAP’s chief ministerial candidate has furthered his vote value. 
 
 Then there is a sizeable migrant population Cuncolim, which could swing any side depending on money and muscle power. BJP will also bank on the Hindu votes from the villages of Gudi and parts of Balli, but SS may prove to be an irritant for the BJP in these areas.
 
 The villages that remain are Christian-dominated areas: Chandor, Guirdolim, Ambaulim and Macasana. Derick has been sarpanch of Chandor, but at the last hustings managed to poll just 85 votes with the majority being polled in favour of Monteiro and Alemao.
 
 In Chandor, Guirdolim and Macasana, the fight is going to be between Alemao, Monteiro, Clafasio and Elvis. At the moment Chandor is leaning towards Gomes and Clafasio.
 
 The Congress candidate is likely to have a run in the Ambaulim constituency as out of the total of 2,987 voters here, 2,579 are from the ST community.
 
 In other areas, Monteiro will have a share too, as he had managed to get a slight majority against Alemao in these areas the last time, but the hype created by AAP is likely to benefit Elvis. BJP had won the 2012 polls in a multi-cornered contest, and this time too, many candidates are in the fray.
 
 
