HYDERABD: In a chilling   carried out in broad daylight, a 30-year-old businessman, who had earlier made a bid on the life of a realtor in November last, was   near his house at Pet Basheerabad on Thursday evening.Police nabbed three assailants and   used for committing the offence.

 The victim, Chakravarthi alias Chakri, was one of the three persons arrested for a murder bid on realtor Nagender Reddy on November 16 at Padma Nagar Phase II in Pet Basheerabad.
 
 Around 5.45 pm, three persons waylaid Chakravarthi, who was travelling on a bike, and attacked him with a hunting sickle, an iron rod and knives at Padma Nagar Ring Road. Businessman Chakravarthi, who was one of the three arrested for a murder bid on realtor Nagender Reddy, was   in the city on Thursday.
 
 “With critical injuries on his head and neck, Chakri died on the spot,“ Pet Basheerabad inspector D V Ranga Reddy said.Chakravarthi, who came out on bail three days ago, had been threatening Nagender, police said.
 
 “The two had real estate disputes,“ a police officer said. However, before he co uld execute his threat, contract killers allegedly hired by Nagender eliminated him.
 
 Police seized a sickle, an iron rod and two daggers from the crime scene.Police identified the accused as Ravinder, Nagender and Nagayya from Pet Basheerabad. “We have picked up the trio and they confessed that Nagender Reddy was the mastermind behind the murderous attack. Reddy was also taken into custody,“ an investigating officer said. Police have registered a case under sections 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Arms Act.
 
 Earlier, on Nov 16 last, Chakri with two of his associates, Sai Prabhu and Rajasekhar Reddy, had in a similar fashion waylaid Nagender Reddy at Padma Nagar Phase II when the latter was travelling in a car with his wife. Sai Prabhu had fired two shots at Nagender with a countrymade firearm procured from UP for `20,000. “While a bullet got lodged in Nagender's back, the other missed him,“ the inspector added. After the attack, police had arrested the trio and seized the firearm from them.
 
 
