KOLKATA: The report TOI carried on Tuesday on how slices of pavements were being sold off in Chowringhee has sent shockwaves down the corridors of the civic headquarters. Waking up from the slumber, top civic bosses — including mayor   — on Tuesday expressed their dismay over blatant flouting of norms and promised prompt action to curb the situation before it goes out of control.

 “Henceforth, KMC would keep an eye on any illegal dealings,” Chatterjee promised on Tuesday. 
 
 Sources in the KMC said the mayor had already asked civic officials to do a survey on the existing hawkers and come up with the number of encroachers who have occupied space either on the carriageway or the pavement in Chowringhee area.
 
 However, traders in the New Market area are far from satisfied with the assurance. Rajeev Singh, the general secretary of the  , which has members from all major markets including New Market, SreeRam Arcade and Firpo’s Market, has categorically demanded an encroachment-free trading zone in the locality. “We have had enough of assurance from the civic administration. Now it’s time to act,” Singh said. 
 
  Gupta, the president of S S Hogg Market Traders’ Association, echoed Singh. According to Gupta, while the civic administration was duty-bound to clear encroachment from the New Market area, the authorities even failed to keep new encroachers at bay. “Everyday, some new hawkers are being allowed to encroach on either the carriageway or pavements right in front of the police and civic bosses,” Gupta alleged.
 
 Mohammed Shehnaz, a Trinamool-run hawker union leader looking after the New Market area, however, said that he had no information on hawkers selling pavement space to businessmen. According to him, workshops were being held to make the hawkers aware of the rules. “We are against encroachment. We are also against any illegal transfer of pavement space,” he said. 
 
 Deputy police commissioner (central)   chose not to comment on the reported sale of pavement in the Chowringhee area. 
 
