NAGPUR: The state government’s proposal to move the   for   from existing July 31 to September 30 for   is already creating problems for schools. With some popular schools in city already filling up to 30% seats at entry point (nursery/KG I), the impending birth date criteria change is sure to create chaos. 

 One such school’s trustee told TOI that many parents will now demand that their children be admitted at the next level. “It is hard to put a number but about 10% of total applicants in each school will have an August or September birthdate. For now they have missed out on nursery admissions because of the existing July 31 date and settled for pre-nursery seats in our school. But once the government changes the rule, such parents who confirmed admission in pre-nursery will demand a rollback and seek admission in the next class,” the trustee said. 
 
 Earlier this month, the state government changed the cut-off birth date to September 30, but that was only for students taking admission under   (RTE) free quota. Now the education department is in the process of issuing a new   to cover even non-RTE quota admissions.
 
 A private school’s director said, “Every parent wants their child to pass out of the schooling system as soon as possible and with the change giving an opportunity to quite a few of them to move up the ladder quicker, everyone will jump at it.”
 
 Principal of a CBSE school wondered what happens to the admissions they have already completed. “Parents have secured spots in nursery level for 2017-18 and there are quite a few of them who will be eligible for KG-1 under the new rule. So should we move them automatically and cancel their previous admission? What happens to the non-refundable component of the fee?” the principal asked. 
 
 The state’s school education secretary Nand Kumar, however, expressed surprise that schools were fretting over the issue. “What’s the reason to be scared? We are simply putting a common cut-off date. Why would they have to scrap all admissions for it?” Kumar asked.
 
 He hinted that some queries will be answered in the modified GR which is expected to come within a month. But till then, schools are out on their own. A school’s director said, “Even if we started giving admission today itself based on the Sept 30 date, who is to say that someone somewhere may approach the court and get a stay on it. Then what happens? We may get stuck with hundreds of students in nursery who are not even eligible.” Schools feel things would work out smoothly if the state defered implementation of this rule till 2018-19 academic session. 
 
