BHOPAL/JAIPUR: The sole morning flight from Bhopal to Delhi, AI-436, with 122 passengers including six crew members, two MPs and the state   president, had a close shave on Monday morning when it suffered a bird-hit after taking off from  . The aircraft was diverted to Jaipur for a ‘priority landing.'

  member Prabhat Jha, MP from Sagar Laxmi Narayan Yadav and   president Nand Kumar Chauhan were on board the aircraft, which took off at 8 am on Monday and was to reach Delhi at 9.15 am.
 
 “A bird got sucked into the right side of the engine. Owing to this, couple of blades were damaged and a fuel leak occurred. As the engine was damaged, an emergency landing conducted,” said a passenger.
 
 “The pilot requested for priority landing which was given to him immediately. The flight landed at 9.40am. After the flight landed it was noticed that fuel was leaking from the engine,” said Jaideep Singh, Jaipur airport director. Incidentally, the pilot, while requesting for priority landing and communicating with ATC throughout the landing, did not mention the oil leakage. “Had he informed about the fuel leakage, the landing would have been made on an ‘emergency’ basis,” said an airport official. Upon arrival, the passengers were asked to deplane immediately to avert any untoward incident.
 
 “It was announced in the aircraft that owing to bad weather conditions in Delhi, the plane would land in Jaipur,” the passenger said, adding: “We came to know about the entire episode after coming out of the aircraft."
 
  officials in Bhopal admitted that a bird-hit had forced the pilot to divert the flight. “The pilot thought it would be better to land in Jaipur as it was closer. All passengers were safe,” said Air India manager (MP&CG), Vishrut Acharya.
 
 By afternoon, 112 passengers were sent to Delhi by road from Jaipur, while 10 others (including the MPs and the BJP state president) were sent by other flight. Talking to TOI, Jha said, “I did not know about the technical glitch that forced the pilot to do an emergency landing at Jaipur airport. I must congratulate the pilot for landing the flight safely, without creating any panic among the passengers.”
 
