PATNA: Governor-cum-chancellor   on Thursday interacted with all the five academics whose names figure in the panel submitted by the search committee for the appointment of Veer Kunwar Singh University’s (VKSU) vice-chancellor (VC).

 In a one-to-one interaction which lasted for 15 to 20 minutes each, the chancellor is reported to have discussed with the aspirants the current academic scenario and their vision about the university system in the days to come. He also tried to ascertain their ideas about effective governance of the universities.
 
 Those who were invited for interaction with the chancellor included   education department professor Harikesh Singh, Patna University pro-VC Ranjit Kumar Verma, L N Mithila University pro-VC Syed Mumtazuddin, Kameshwar Singh Darbhanga Sanskrit University pro-VC Nilima Sinha and Nalanda Open University pro-VC R P Upadhyaya.
 
 The chancellor will interact with the academics figuring in the panel submitted by the search committee of Chhapra’s   (JPU) on Friday. Only three candidates are likely to face the interview as two aspirants are reportedly common in both the panels submitted for the appointment of VCs of VKSU and JPU.
 
 Earlier, chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar and education minister Ashok Kumar Chauudhary had held a detailed discussion with the governor on the issue of appointment of VCs at the Raj Bhavan on January 9 and had also reportedly agreed on some names figuring in the panels submitted by the search committees. The panels, containing five names each, were submitted by the search committees following their interaction with the shortlisted applicants on November 26 and December 7 respectively. However, the chancellor desired to have a personal interaction with the candidates recommended by the search committees before making the appointment. 
 
 Meanwhile, the process of appointment of VCs and pro-VCs in the remaining nine universities of the state is also in progress. The search committees for all the universities have already been constituted and their members are being contacted by the chancellor’s secretariat for their availability. Since the appointment of new incumbents may take some time, the seniormost professors will be asked to officiate as the VCs of their respective universities following the completion of three-year term by the present incumbents on January 31. The universities have already furnished the seniority list of professors to the Raj Bhavan.
 
 
