New Delhi: The commerce and industry ministry is not in favour of offering concessions to   for its make-in-India initiative arguing that similar   were not sought by other companies for setting up   facilities within the country.

 The ministry is a key player in the decision-making process as it is the window for submission of applications for retailing and also the foreign investment policy wing of the government. In addition, it has been pushing for a more liberal regime for high-technology players to enter the Indian retail arena by relaxing some of the rules in the tightly-policed sector.
 
 Earlier, it had backed Apple on its demand for relaxation of the local sourcing requirement even as the finance ministry was not keen on treating the American electronics technology giant as a “special case”.
 
 While making a fresh investment pitch, the California-based company has sought several concessions, including tax benefits and easier packaging norms, even as its Taiwanese manufacturing partner Wistron is looking to set up a facility near Bengaluru.
 
 A final call on the proposal will be taken by an inter-ministerial group comprising representatives from the ministries of finance, commerce and industry, information technology and environment and forest. The finance ministry has typically opposed offering tax concessions as it seeks to keep a firm grip on government revenues.
 
 Officials pointed out that the government already offers benefits under the Modified Special Incentive Package Scheme (MSIPS) to boost electronic manufacturing in the country. While Apple sells its phone and other gadgets through partners in the country, it is keen to have a stronger local presence in India at a time when sales in other parts of the world are slowing down.
 
 Data from Hong Kong-based Counterpoint Technology Market Research showed that Apple sold 2.5 million iPhones in India from October 2015 to September 2016, a rise of more than 50% over the year-ago period. Apple India’s sales are estimated to have gone up by 56% to nearly Rs 10,000 crore during 2016 compared with Rs 6,472 crore in the previous year, while profit increased 21% to Rs 294 crore during this period.
 
 
