AURANGABAD: A day after registering the lowest minimum   of the current season, city continued to witness below normal temperature with residents shivering at 8.2 degrees celsius on Thursday.

 While many parts of the state has already been gripped with the cold wave, the onslaught of winter in the city was a little late. The minimum temperature, which was hovering well above 13 degrees celsius mark till a few days back, nosedived to 7.6 degrees celsius, registering the season’s lowest on Wednesday. The dip is being hailed as the lowest in the last five years. The previous record was 6.9 degree celsius in 2011. 
 
 The minimum temperature in the city on Thursday was 3 degrees celsius below the normal temperature, the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) data showed.
 
 As per IMD forecast, the mercury-level could hover below the normal mark for the next 48-hours, leading to cold-wave-like conditions in the city and many parts of the region.
 
 IMD authorities said that Marathwada was witnessing lower minimum temperature due to the cold-wave conditions that are being observed across the state.
 
 According to a private weather agency Skymet, many parts of the northwest plains and Maharashtra are experiencing cold wave conditions.
 
 “But this drop in temperature will be short lived as it will last only for the next 2-3 days. Thereafter, the temperatures over northwest plains will start increasing,” an evening report from Skymet detailed.
 
 B V Asewar, chief scientist with Parbhani-based Vasantrao   said, “The cold-wave for a brief period could be beneficial for Rabi crops.”
 
 “Gram pea and Sorghum (Jowar) could benefit from current cold wave, if it lasts for a brief period. If the current extreme cold conditions persist, it could have adverse effects on the crops. Sorghum could fall prey to a sugary disease known as chikta,” he said. 
 
 The current condition has evoked mixed reactions from citizens. While parents of school-going children are not very happy about the harsh weather conditions, others are enjoying the colder conditions . 
 
 “The weather conditions have made it very difficult for me to first wake up my child in the mornings for school,” said Rohini Apegaokar, a home-maker from CIDCO area.
 
 But, 35-year-old Sanjay Gaikwad, who jogs to Gogababa hill every day, said that he was loving the current weather conditions. “Even though it is challenging to stick to the routine in this weather, I am enjoying it.”
 
