NEW DELHI:   joint secretary   approached the Supreme Court on Monday against the courtappointed   ( ), led by former CAG  , alleging that the panel is trying to take over the management of the board in violation of its order. Appearing before a bench headed by Justice  , senior advocate   and lawyer  , appearing for Chaudhary, said the appointment of administrators had resulted in complete “chaos“ in the country's cricket administration.

 Bali told the bench that the administrators were erroneously trying to take over the management of BCCI under the “garb of a delusion“ that they have been entrusted with the task of running the board and pleaded to clarify the duties and powers given to the committee.
 
 “The only job entrusted to the committee of administrators is to oversee the smooth transition in BCCI and supervise the working of the office bearers. Instead the committee is passing directions thereby giving an impression that they are to administer BCCI. In a humble submission, this act tantamounts to contempt of the order of the court,“ Chaudhary said in his petition.
 
 Bali said the committee had usurped the power, duties and functions of the secretary and treasurer of the board and pleaded to the court to grant an urgent hearing on his plea. Agreeing to hear his plea, Justice Misra said he would talk to other judges, who are part of the special bench hearing the BCCI case, and would fix a date for hearing his plea. The Supreme Court had on January 30 appointed a committee of four administrators, headed by Vinod Rai, to manage the affairs of world's richest cricket body after its president and other top office bearers were barred from cricket administration.
 
 A bench of Justices Dipak Misra, A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud had directed that the committee ­ also comprising eminent cricket historian Ramachandra Guha, CEO & MD of Infrastructure Development Finance Company (IDFC) Vikram Limaye and former Indian women's cricket captain Diana Edulji ­ would supervise the management of BCCI and CEO of the Board would report to the panel.
 
 
