NAVI MUMBAI: Residents of   nodes like  , Ulve, Dronagiri and Taloja alleged that they have been getting erratic water supply in the last couple of weeks. They also said that no action is being taken inspite of their persistent complaints. 

 Various residential groups backed by political parties and leaders are taking out morchas to local Cidco office to highlight their concern about the shortage of drinking water.
 
 Cidco sources said that leakages in the main line from Hetawane dam and ongoing work on new lines caused the scarcity.
 
 Areas with high rises are the worst-hit, complained locals. “There is either no or low-pressure supply nowadays. If this is the case now, we are scared of what will happen in summer. Cidco failed to deliver its promises of uninterrupted water supply,” said a Kharghar resident, Mohit Surve.
 
 Cidco’s Kharghar office witnessed two back-to-back protests on Thursday and Friday— BJP supporters took out a morcha on Thursday, followed by PWP leader Gurunath Gaikar leading hundreds of aggrieved residents on Friday.
 
 Gaikar alleged that Cidco is doing nothing to rectify the situation. “Kharghar has seen a substantial increase in population over the years, yet there was no measure initiated by Cidco to cater to the rising demand of water. We will intensify our protest if the officials fail to restore adequate supply,” said Gaikar.
 
 Residents have also alleged that Cidco has curtailed the supply substantially without making any official announcement. “We have been facing water cut during the last few days. We have to depend on tanker water, which is too expensive,” said Taloja resident Vasant Amin.
 
 Rajesh Hatvar, executive engineer water supply, Cidco clarified to TOI that they have not enforced a cut in supply. “The pressure has lowered due to minor leakages in some areas along the main pipeline. Besides, the new line is being connected to the old lines. We will undertake shutdown within a week to do away with the pressure problem.”
 
 
