PUNE: The State Election Commission ( ) has made the uploading of candidates’ videos on the municipal corporation or district election website optional ahead of the civic polls.

 The decision has been taken considering the huge expenses the entire process would bring to the administration. The new guidelines stated that the two-minute   of the candidates in the poll fray can be made available by a non-governmental organization instead of the administration. 
 
 Pune   Saurabh Rao said as per the SEC guidelines, these videos are optional for the candidates. “The videos will mainly have the candidate stating their vision for the area from where they are contesting elections. The SEC has decided that neither the administration nor the candidates will have to spend money on these videos. If needed, the candidates can seek the help of an NGO for uploading the videos,” Rao said.
 
 The videos were meant to make voters aware of their candidates. While the SEC has still reiterated that details of the affidavit of the candidates would be put up at the polling centre and in newspapers, the video   are left to the discretion of the candidates.
 
 Highly placed sources from the SEC said there was confusion about the funding of these videos. 
 
 “With many candidates in the fray for both municipal corporation and zilla parishad polls, these videos cannot be uploaded by the administration or by the candidates. We have decided to keep it optional. However, any candidates wishing to go ahead with the initiative is free to seek help from an NGO to make and upload the videos after these clips are verified by the officer concerned,” the sources said. 
 
 Meanwhile, the candidates will have to file their nominations online and all the necessary certificates have to be attached, the collector said.
 
 The district administration said they have taken action against violations of election code of conduct. “Preventive actions have been taken in various cases. The excise department has cracked the whip on 156 people for the violation of poll conduct cases. Of these, action has been initiated in 69 cases.
 
 Announcing the ZP election schedule, the collector said there would be strict watch on use of social media by the candidates as well as on paid news. “For the ZP elections, the nominations form can be submitted from February 1-7. The elections to the zilla ppanchayat will be held on February 21 and the counting will be on February 23,” he said.
 
 
