AHMEDABAD:   lashed out at   with regard to the blinding of four patients by botched cataract surgeries at   last year and the way the investigation has proceeded so far.

  “Why are such unfortunate incidents reported in government or municipal hospitals only? The products manufactured by the applicants are being used by a number of private hospitals too. Why have such incidents not been reported in any other hospital?,” the court asked, expressing concerns over the affairs of public hospitals.
 
 “The skill or care with which surgeries are performed at government and municipal hospitals should also be a matter of serious consideration before levelling allegations against the manufacturer,” the court observed. 
 
 The court is hearing a petition by the manufacturers of Savlon liquid antiseptic, against their implication in this case.
 
 Justice J B Pardiwala pulled up three hospitals – LG Hospital, NHL Medical College and   – for their reports which found fault with the the liquid antiseptic for one reason or the other. However, the government analyst in his report gave a clean chit to the suppliers of the medical supplies.
 
 The HC has asked the state government to explain what it proposes to do further in this case. “Once there is a report of the Government Food & Drugs Laboratory certifying that the sample conforms to the standards of Schedule V of the Drugs & Cosmetics Rules, 1945 for patent or proprietary medicines, should the applicants be prosecuted? This court would like to know whether the investigating agency would like the samples to be tested through a   and is it possible at this point of time?” the court questioned.
 
 The court also questioned whether there was any investigation to find out any errors or negligence by doctors while performing the surgery. It further questioned if there was a problem with the Savlon liquid antiseptic, why was the HoD at LG Hospital, Dr Bena Desai, transferred to Nagri Hospital.
 
 The court scheduled further hearing on this subject for February 2 with a comment, “The less said the better as regards the investigation carried out so far.”
 
