GHAZIABAD: Over 15 high voltage transmission towers located right inside two popular parks in   –   and Children’s Park – are more than just an eyesore to anyone visiting the two places. They are potential threats to visitors, especially children, as the parks often brim with people from nearby residential areas.

 Spread over 16.5 acres, the two parks were formally commissioned by   Development Authority in December last year following frequent complaints of waterlogging in the area from residents of nearby   (IRS) society. 
 
 “There used to be a swamp in the area where the parks have now been set up, with sewage overflowing from Khoda on the other side of NH-24. The stagnant water not only filled the area with an unbearable stench, but it also made the residents vulnerable to vector-borne diseases. So, GDA took the initiative to set up the parks,” horticulture officer, GDA, SP Shishodia, told TOI. 
 
 However, the   (UPPTCL) already had two transmission corridors, running parallel to each other, installed in the same area nearly 20 years ago.
 
 As the parks were meant to beautify the green belt, the project did not require the approval of the GDA board. Former GDA vice-chairman Santosh Yadav sanctioned Rs 3.5 crore for the two parks in 2015. Soil, to fill the swamp trench – which GDA engineers say was around 3.5 meters deep – was provided free-of-cost by the DMRC from construction sites of Dilshad Garden-New Bus Stand Metro corridor.
 
 The GDA also mooted the idea of introducing an artificial lake in Green Park by tweaking the original plan as enough soil was not available to fill the trench. Finally, the parks were inaugurated in December last year right under the transmission corridors. 
 
 While a 220-kV transmission line carries cables from the substation located in Noida near UP Gate, another 132-kV line carries cables from the substation located in Sector 62 of Noida. Both the transmission lines are meant for power supply to Noida.
 
 “We have to keep a close watch on the kids whenever we come to the park. There are chances of electrocution from the towers. We have heard of mishaps in parks in Delhi due to unattended electric cables,” said Smita Pathak, a frequent visitor.
 
 The parks were teeming with people when TOI paid a visit on Saturday morning. Green Park, which has many joyrides, is the larger and more crowded among the two. A boating facility within an artificial pond, an eatery, a rabbit nesting enclosure and an open-air gym are among the facilities available here. 
 
 “The Noida division of the power transmission corporation is responsible for maintenance of both the lines. The transmission lines do not provide electricity to Ghaziabad. The lines are located at a height of more than 15 meters from the ground and chances of accidents are rare. The transmission lines are equipped with the latest technology that ensures immediate disruption of supply in case of a fault,” said Yatendra Kumar, superintending engineer, UPPTCL, Ghaziabad.
 
 “The time taken for automatic disruption of supply following a fault is less than 25 milliseconds. We undertake tests on them regularly. Maintenance work is undertaken to ensure that the automatic cutoff time remains below 25 milliseconds. We undertake work on these lines immediately if cutoff time is found to be even 35 milliseconds,” he added.
 
 
