PATNA: MEd students participated in a daylong seminar conducted by   on Wednesday on its campus. The topic of the seminar was ‘Trends in educational management and administration in education.’

 Addressing the seminar, college principal Fr Thomas Perumalil focused on the immediate need for educational managers so that teachers were left free to focus on teaching.
 
 The participants presented nine papers at three sessions and were awarded certificates. College’s faculty members Madhu Singh, Deep Kumar, Sushil Kumar Singh, Nimisha Srivastava, Smita Pascal, Sujata, Shobha and Vijayshree also attended the seminar. 
 
 Admission in engg, pharmacy: The Association of Minority Professional Academic Institutes, a registered body under the West Bengal Society Registration Act 1961, on Wednesday announced that the Common Entrance Examination CEE-AMPAI-2017-WB will be held on May 14. The association has made application forms available online at www.ampai.in and offline till May 6. 
 
 This year CEE-AMPAI examination will be held at 21 centres across the country, including Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Dhanbad,   and Purnia.
 
 Mobile canteen launched: Vanijya Mahavidyalaya, a constituent unit of   (PU), on Wednesday created a record of sorts by launching the first-ever mobile canteen for its students, especially the girls. The college, which functions in the morning shift round the year, had not got any canteen for its scholars ever since its inception more than 40 years ago. The canteen on a truck can move from one place to another, depending on the need. 
 
 Inaugurating the canteen inside the college premises, PU students’ welfare dean Dolly Sinha applauded the initiative taken by college authorities on the campus. She pointed out that since the college functions in morning hours, several students might have been coming to the college without taking breakfast. This canteen would definitely provide great relief to such students. Lengthy lectures cannot be grasped empty stomach, she said.
 
 Sinha regretted that many premier PU colleges, including Patna College, Patna Science College and  , did not have canteen on their premises, causing much inconvenience to the day scholars. Necessary steps were being taken to start canteens in the colleges and at Darbhanga House for the benefit of students as well as teachers. 
 
 College principal B N Pandey pointed out that several student-centric activities have been launched in the college in recent past and efforts were being made to provide all the basic amenities to the boys and girls of the college.
 
 College teachers N K Pandey,   Singh, Chandan Kumar and Suppan Prasad Singh besides a large number of students attended the function.
 
