Coimbatore: A 40-year-old employee of the Tamilnadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Ltd (Tangedco) has been arrested for hiring two   to murder his wife. Police had recovered the body of 35-year-old K Renuka of Pooluvapatti from an agricultural field on Thondamuthur to Mathampatti Road on Wednesday night.

 Renuka’s   Kulandaivel of Pooluvapatti had hatched the deadly plan with the help his friend M Muniraj of Sundakkamuthur, police said. “Kulandaivel was an employee of Tangedco and Muniraj was running a watermelon shop in front Kulandaivel’s house. Kulandaivel was in an extramarital affair with his neighbour. Renuka often quarrelled with him over the issue. and with her two children, had severed links with him. It prompted Kulandaivel to finish her off,” a police officer said.
 
 Kulandaivel planned the murder with the help of Muniraj, who arranged the hired goons from Rajapalayam. “Kulandaivel gave the goons Rs 10,000 as advance and promised to pay Rs 60,000 after the job is done. As per their plan, on Wednesday evening, Muniraj met Renuka at the jewellery shop in Gandhi Park, where she was working. He told her that he has some buyers who are ready to purchase bulk jewellery and asked her to meet them. He took her to Yesu Pannai Thottam on Thondamuthur on his motorcycle. The hired goons, who were waiting there,   her,” the officer told TOI.
 
 Thondamuthur police sent the body to to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) for post-mortem. Deep injuries were found on the right side of neck, left and right palms. Police recovered a blood-stained knife and a pair of gloves from the crime scene.
 
 On Thursday morning, Kulandaivel arrived at the Thondamuthur police station and told officers that his wife had not returned home from work. Police showed him some photographs taken from the crime scene and Kulandaivel told them that it is the body of Renuka. He was taken to the CMCH, where he identified the body.
 
 Police started an investigation into Kulandaivel’s involvement in the murder after he began to give contradictory statements. Police arrested Kulandaivel and Muniraj on Thursday evening. A police team had gone to Rajapalayam to nab the hired goons.
 
 
