BENGALURU: The BBMP said on Saturday that it would amend building bylaws to enable the civic body keep the ground floor during the construction of a ground plus-four (or more) floor building in its name till the owner satisfies all building norms.

 The proposal is part of its 2017-18 budget presented on Saturday . If you are constructing a ground-floor-plus-fourfloor building or above, the ground floor shall be registered to BBMP at a fee of Rs 100.The move is aimed at curbing building bylaw violations.
 
 As per the proposal, the ground floor will be released to the owner if she adheres to building norms, along with the occupancy certificate. “If the property owner has violated the building plan, the ground floor ownership will remain with the BBMP,“ said M K Gunashekar, chairman, standing committee on finance and taxation, BBMP, who presented the budget.
 
 Senior officials in the BBMP's town planning wing said: “During 2016, there were many building collapses including a major one in Bellandur. We found that building norms violations were rampant. To arrest such illegal constructions, we proposed an amendment to the building bylaws by linking building plan approval to issuance of occupancy certificate.Since occupancy certificate is crucial for renting or leasing out any property , we want to ensure that such a certificate is obtained only after the building is built as per the plan,“ he added.
 
 The BBMP in its budget plans for town planning also said that land acquisition for various government projects in future will be done as per the new Transfer of Development Rights (TDR) norms.
 
 “Almost all ongoing projects will be under the   (RERA). Any violation will be looked at from the RERA perspective. Why bring this new legislation?“ asks J C Sharma, managing director, Sobha Developers. While the BBMP bud get moots taking ownership of the ground floor during the construction of a ground-plusfour (or more) floor building to ensure compliance with the building plan, industry is not too thrilled.
 
 “A similar rule has been in practice in   and it was drafted during the   boom. The Telengana government removed this condition as well as the infrastructure fee for additional higher   in order to have a healthy supply .The BBMP proposal will bring down the supply and hence prices will go up.Home buyers will suffer. A building's life span is between 70 years and 100 years.If there is any building plan violation, action can be tak en anytime by the government by over regulating and making some economic provisions with which one controls and increases the ultimate price of the product,“ said Murali, managing director  .
 
 “Almost all ongoing projects will be under the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA). Any violation will be looked at from the RERA perspective. Why bring this new legislation when RERA is only a month away from being implemented? If the government believes someone is doing illegal construction, it needs a mechanism to find out and penalize them instead of first allowing them and saying you cannot sell it. People who comply with the law will suffer more. We hope this proposal will be withdrawn,“ said J C Sharma, managing director, Sobha Developers.
 
