MUMBAI: The   has reacted strongly against the change of user policy that allows big-ticket   on land earmarked for industrial use. This, Saamna argued on Sunday, will mean loss of the party's electoral base. 

 Sena strategists are of the view that an impending boom in the housing sector, especially in south Mumbai, will trigger mass migration of   to faraway suburbs such as Ambarnath, Virar-Vasai and Badlapur. Slamming the state revenue and forest department's GR of April 15 permitting construction of houses on plots which once housed industrial units, Saamna on Sunday alleged that the decision was a "conspiracy" to dilute Mumbai's Marathi character.
 
 "Should this happen, the Sena will lose its political base in Mumbai," said senior party leader Sanjay Raut in Saamna. 
 
 The article voices the growing concern in the Sena rank and file over the  's move to consolidate its base in Mumbai with help from the mercantile community which has been buying up apartments in south and central Mumbai in the recent years, said experts.
 
 However, they also point out that the Sena can't deny its role in the rise of multi-storeyed apartments and migration of Marathis from areas that once boasted chawls. "Instead of pouring scorn over the government, the Sena should prepare a list of its own leaders who have sealed partnerships with Gujarati-Jain builders in Dadar, Lalbaug-Parel and the suburban Jogeshwai-Andheri, Mulund-Ghatkopar and Borivli-Dahisar pocketboroughs," said a Sena veteran.
 
 Raut said, "Steady decline of the industrial sector and spurt in the services sector have released large tracts of land where once stood mills and factories. The state government seems keen on allowing mammoth housing projects on the freed land. This will deal a body blow to Marathi Mumbaikars who will have to migrate to faraway suburbs for affordable homes, while the nouveau riche will control Mumbai's reigns in coming years."
 
 Stating that such arbitrary measure will ruin Mumbai's cultural and social character, Raut said, "The wealthy class will snap up apartments in Girgaum, Lalbaug-Parel and Dadar. This class has no emotional link with Mumbai and its glorious past." 
 
