NEW DELHI: Work for   of a central verge on Alaknanda Road in south Delhi has been on hold since July 2015 following a stay order by Supreme Court. While the matter is yet to be listed for a hearing, the 3km long   has become a nightmare for commuters and residents of various apartments and Greater Kailash-II besides establishments like schools, hospitals and markets.

 The sections that were constructed have been demolished at various points, allegedly by locals protesting against restriction on access, and the kerb stones are now lying piled up at the centre. These often spill on to the road, creating a serious traffic hazard. Right outside Don Bosco School, the entire verge has been broken down and stones are haphazardly placed on the road, making it difficult for pedestrians to cross.
 
 “It is a busy road, and with the central verge broken, it is difficult for elderly people and kids to cross. Till the time government agencies don’t decide on what to do here, they should at least make the stretch safe for people,” said Indu Sethi, who has a shop in the local market on the stretch.
 
 Laveesh Bhandari, president, Citizens’ Alliance, said, “It is time that PWD and courts listen to the consensus among RWAs to rebuild the central verge with properly designated crossover zones.”
 
 But PWD, the agency responsible for the construction work, is unwilling to remove these stones from the verge. “PWD officials don’t want to remove the stones as they fear that this might invite contempt of Supreme Court,” says area MLA Saurabh Bharadwaj, who has been trying to find a solution to the problem. PWD officials say they routinely check the stretch and keep the stones on the central verge to ensure no inconvenience is caused to people. 
 
 “We must have rearranged the stones along the verge over 20 times. Due to the stay order, we can’t do much,” said a PWD official.
 
 The main contentious issue in the construction of the central verge were opening for U-turns which will give easy access to the houses and other establishments on both sides of the road. 
 
 PWD had made three cuts for U-turns but had to close them following a direction from National Green Tribunal in May 2015. This was challenged in Supreme Court by RWAs and schools resulting in an interim stay on the construction work in July that year. There is another matter pending in the Delhi high court in this regard.
 
 RWAs are now trying to build a consensus on constructing the verge. “We want to resolve the issue as people are facing a lot of problems. A broad consensus has been reached that the verge should be rebuilt. We had roped in a senior urban planner who has suggested a design with some more cuts. The verge is required to ensure some discipline on road and proper illumination. At present, there is poor lighting on the street,” said the president of Rishi Apartments, Salem Ganapathi, who is coordinating with other RWAs on the issue.
 
 RWAs had approached Bharadwaj a few months back to discuss the issue. The MLA says PWD has roped in Central Road Research Institute (CRRI) to conduct a survey and suggest possible points where openings or cuts can be made for vehicles to take a U-turn. 
 
 “CRRI has submitted its report. We have spoken to some petitioners in the case and everybody is on the same page. If there are some issues, these can be sorted out. We are planning a meeting in this regard in a week or so. If everyone agrees, then they all can go to the court and get the stay vacated,” says Bharadwaj.
 
