MUMBAI: In a fresh case of   caste certificates, JJ Marg police on Monday arrested a just-passed doctor of medicines on charges of forgery, cheating and submitting a fake caste   to secure admission to   and  . Dr Shadab Reshamwala was taken into custody after Yuvraj Sonawane, chief administration officer, Grant Medical College (GMC), lodged an FIR.

 Zonal DCP Manoj Sharma said, “We arrested Shadab and are probing the case.” TOI had reported (January 3) about another caste certificate scam and mentioned five doctors who had allegedly submitted forged documents to obtain admissions. Police were probing a case registered in 2016 against nine MBBS students and two practising doctors. The joint commissioner and vice-chairman, schedule tribe certificate scrutiny committee (Nashik) had in a letter on November 2 last year to the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) mentioned five students whose caste certificates were either bogus or their original records were not found. The DMER directed the deans concerned to approach the police.
 
 Shadab’s uncle, Dr Aarif, who holds a masters in surgery (MS) and was an honorary lecturer at GMC for 15 years, was arrested last week in the scandal, while Aarif’s children, Aayesha and Akhef, both MBBS students at GMC, were able to get anticipatory bail in the criminal case for submitting fake certificate and securing admission under the ST quota. Among the nine accused students in the MBBS case, Karan Purohit was arrested, while the others got anticipatory bail.
 
 The scrutiny committee found that the Shadab’s ST caste certificate, issued in 2007 from the office of deputy collector, Osmanabad, had, going by the certificate number, been issued to Suket Gyandev). The committee said A J Gujjar, the officer whose signature was on the ST validity certificate, had never worked in that office. 
 
 Dr P H Shingare, director, DMER, ordered an internal probe team, comprising its chief administrative officer, officer on special duty and others, to find out the details. If the students are proven guilty, the authorities will recommend annulling their registration with the Maharashtra Medical Council (MMC). Tauseef Ansari, advocate for the intervener in the MBBS case, said, “It’s a much bigger scam. Some people are charging lakhs and playing with students’ future. They need to be arrested.”
 
 
