Actor Raveendran, better known as 'Disco  ', was a sensation among the youth, in the 80s, with his quirky dance moves and portrayal of a variety of characters on-screen. 

 The veteran, however, shies away from being called a yesteryear actor, and says that he hasn't gone anywhere. Cinema has been a thriving force for him ' be it on or off-screen, through the films and festivals he has organised, he says. Kochi Times talks to the   actor about life, his fond memories and his perpetual fascination for the world of filmmaking. 
 
 
 
 
 I had no inhibitions when I faced the camera for the first time in Oru Thalai Ragam, as most of the members of the production team were from my film institute in Pune. Hence, I was one of the first persons to be roped in for the film as well.
 I was always active as a kid. Each incident of my life was a learning experience later and it enhanced my personality. After my debut, I was flooded with a lot of film offers, and I went on to become part of the film Ashwaradham in Malayalam. That said, I was fortunate enough to achieve overnight fame and acceptance from a large number of people.
 
 
 
 I loved dance very much, and I used to attend discos often during those days. John Travolta's Saturday Night Fever was one of my favourite disco tracks.
 As I was more inclined towards dance, I was offered such roles in my Malayalam projects as well. My dance moves and songs had in fact led to a cultural revolution among the youth. It was equally fulfilling to see that I was kept on a par with the likes of Rajinikanth and Kamal Haasan, as I had the grooving skills and attitude that they possessed.
 
 
 
 Actually, the real-life character Reni George, the accused was my friend, but when the film was being shot, no one knew the fact. As I knew his mannerisms very well, I was able to adapt to his character and the killer instincts that were shown on-screen with much ease. It was so realistic that people could get the feel of the real Reni George through me.
 
 
 
 There were two types of films ' serious movies and popular ones ' at that time. I was part of the latter, and the character with a lot of swag was more accepted. In fact, the audience wanted the same type of mannerisms from me. However, I have also done different roles in films such as Abhayam Thedi, Kahalam and Iravu Pookal, among many others.
 
 The ones that were an instant hit were the dance numbers and villainous roles. With the passage of time, I started realising that I enjoyed doing them. No one perceived me in roles other than that, hence I started to look at them as an entertainment.
 
 
 
 Kamal and Rajini are great actors, and a have a distinct identity. I was moulded into an actor in a different way at the film institute at Pune itself and hence we were on a same footing.
 From climbing trees to jumping into buses, there was nothing that I did not try my hand at during my childhood. And that eventually helped me a lot while performing stunts on-screen. For example, a scene with Kamal, in which both of us were handcuffed and we had to co-ordinate our hand movements. It was the same with Aswaradham too, there was a sequence in which I had to jump from a running train.
 
 
 
 While studying at the film institute, I was exposed to world cinema, and I used to be a regular visitor in almost all the film fests. A national film festival was conducted back then, and that triggered in me the love for exploring the world of films.
 I feel the golden era of cinema was that of the silent films. Intrigued by their beauty I used to collect as many DVDs of such films and watch them over and over again. There have been times when I travelled miles to get a copy of a film.
 
 My passion for films was such that at times I watched four films in a day. I have lost count of how many times I have watched some of them! It was not an easy task to get access to a vast number of movies back then. The Wall, directed by Alan Parker is one of my favourite films, and while I was shooting in Germany, I travelled around 700 km to get a copy of the film. I used to also eagerly collect the films of Rainer Werner Fassbinder, who is one of the proponents of new cinema in Germany. I used to eat, drink and sleep cinema. Unlike those days, everything is at your fingertip today, and people are extremely lucky, in that regard.
 
 
 
 When I was not active on-screen, I channelled my energies towards structural and interior designing. It was after Pappayude Swantham Appoos, that I indulged myself more in it. I took my love for films to another level by conducting visual literacy programmes and film festivals.
 I have always been connected to the filmi world some way or the other, whether on or off-screen. What was started as a small film screening event in Kochi has been extended to Abu Dhabi, Dubai, the whole of UAE and Europe today.
 
 Whichever field I ventured into, I was welcomed by people, and I think my stardom has been an added advantage.
 
 
 
 After scripting for  's Ennum Eppozhum, I will be writing a few more major projects, the details of which will be divulged on a later date.
 I am also working on a bunch of film fests, and one of them would revolve around expatriates living in the Middle East.
 
 
