On May 10, the Indian Rebel lion of 1857 against the British East India Company, also known as India's First War of Independence, started. On May 4, 2017, 'Manikarnika -The Queen of Jhansi', headlined by  , was flagged off in Varanasi where Rani Lakshmibai was born. “Many heroes had emerged from this struggle and she was the greatest of these heroes who left her imprint on a traditional male space. Ditto Kangana who is the hero of my film. 

  
  
 "There is no force equal to a woman determined to rise and that's true of both these women," asserts Krish, the film's director, whose name was suggested to Kamal Jain who is producing the film with by 'Baahubali' writer K V Vijayendra Prasad who has penned the period drama. Krish started off with a Telugu film, 'Gamyam', in 2008, followed by three more films down South. He made his   debut with the Akshay Kumar-starrer 'Gabbar Is Back' seven years later. 
 
 Next up was the National Award winning Telugu film, 'Kanche', set against the Second World War and 'Gautamiputra Satakarni', the Telugu epic historical, featuring   and Nandamuri Balakrishna. "Manikarnika is my third period film. I was destined to direct it as was prepping for it through my previous films," he laughs. Point out that Ketan Mehta was supposed to direct it earlier and he turns wary.
 
 "I don't know anything about that. I came on board with a fresh script that Vijeyandra Prasad Sir has written and which I have been researching since the past few months," he says, adding that shooting will start in Madhya Pradesh from mid June preceded by reading sessions and workshops with the cast. 
 
 While speaking to Mirror (May 5) earlier Kangana had revealed she doesn't see herself working with another director after Krish as she wants to concentrate on her career as a filmmaker. Prod Krish on whether he will be open to his leading lady's suggestions on the set, he says, "Whatever happens on the set will be in the best interest of the film. Ideas from everyone will be incorporated.Kangana is a clever girl who understands filmmaking. She is one of the finest actresses in the county and I'm sure she will be a great director too."
 
 While the actress had said that she will turn director after this film, Krish pointed out to her that God has his own plans and there are many filmmakers who want to work with her.“She should continue acting at least in her own productions“ he signs off.
 
  
  
 
