NEW DELHI: The government hopes to trigger a citizen movement around the theme ‘I stand by my country’ as part of a twin celebration to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the Quit India movement and the  .
 
  It plans a multimedia campaign that will focus on inspiring the young generation and instilling in them a sense of pride and responsibility, according to a brief the ministry of information and broadcasting has prepared for the campaign.
  
  ET reviewed a copy of the brief. “It is a great opportunity to not only celebrate, but also reiterate our patriotic feelings, reinvigorate our resolve to make India an economic superpower, and revitalise our minds to make India the world’s intellectual capital,” it said. The government feels that with half of the country’s population below the age of 25, such a campaign will help youngsters inherit the patriotic legacy and relate to major events that took place seven decades ago.
  
  The Narendra Modi government will also focus on itself, saying that under it a new and resilient India is on the rise. “There is a new and upbeat dynamism, an innate desire in the people to see the nation rise to new heights of success” the I&B ministry brief said. “And today, the people are seeing it happen under the new government.”
  
  The celebrations will stress that in the next five years — in an era of determination, will and struggle — a ‘New India’ will be built which is “rid of corruption and black money” and fulfils the aspirations of its teeming millions, it said.
  
  The campaign will also drive home the point that the country has already proved its worth in every field, be it science and technology,  ,  , art,  ,   and defence and “today, India stands tall with pride on threshold of becoming a global power”. The aim of the campaign, hence is to portray an India which is “bold and decisive, can secure its future, is on the path of reforms, and that cares”, the brief said.
  
  Separate taglines will be formed for the   and the 70th Independence Day along with logos as well as concepts for both radio and TV to create a “befitting aura” around the two events.
  
  ET had reported on July 12 that the government plans a social media campaign of motivating people to click their selfies with the   and post them on social media websites, plus holding week-long celebrations on the Rajpath lawns from August 12-18.
  
  Twitter polls and quizzes on   are also planned to educate people about unsung heroes of India’s Independence, ET had reported.
 
 
  
