We are only a day behind raising a toast to the festival of colours and what better way than a glass of thandai laced with   to celebrate with. The ingredient, which requires a licence to obtain and consume, is often sold and referred by several interesting names. We list out a few popular ones here. 

 
 
 If you were to step into the bylanes of Grant Road, you would come across a series of paanwallas who sell something called mango churan right before the festival. Each puriya is sold for `30.
 
 
 
 While you are on the same street, you can just walk into dairies or panpattis and ask for minar tablets. Each tablet may cost you somewhere around `40-`70, depending on the quality and quantity you wish to purchase.
 
 
 
 Ever fancied a ‘munakka’ in a silver pouch? A seller on Charni Road sells this in silver lace pouches for `90. 
 
 
 
 Well, this nickname doesn’t come as a surprise to us. A paanwalla from central suburbs on the basis of anonymity says, “We have people asking us for golis a week before the festival. To be honest, it is just a name for bhang. It is mostly sold in powdered form and then made into small balls.”
 
 
 
 If you were to visit some of the sweet stalls in the western suburbs, you might just want to ask for a sweetmeat variant. Some shops in the area have mithais infused with bhang. 
 
 
 
 These are specially made paans which are sold all over the city during Holi. But the one that is quite famous is sold near Old Lokhandwala Complex in the western suburbs. This paan is available for `120.
 However, make sure that you have the required permit to consume it, else you may find yourself surrounded by legal complications.
 
 
 
 Last year, the Bombay High Court raised questions as to whether bhang was a ‘narcotic’ that needs a licence. But, the law on the ingredient is not clear. Initially, it was regulated under the Bhang and Ganja Rules. The law was subsequently revoked when the Narcotic and Psychotropic Substances Act came into effect. In other mentions, bhang is also considered as an ayurvedic formulation.
 Talking about the legalities involved in the consumption of bhang, lawyer   says, “Though there isn’t any clear legal definition of this ingredient, however, there are severe dangers associated with it, one being it is psychotropic in nature, which is why the ingredient is prohibited and can be attained only through a legal permit.”
 
 
 
 The state says that bhang is an intoxicant that comes under the Prohibition Act. A permit is required by a person to possess bhang for personal consumption and can be granted only on production of a medical certificate from the Medical Board constituted by the Government. The Act also prescribes the maximum quantity of it that a person is allowed — 96 grams per month.
 
 The earliest mention of bhang — which is primarily obtained from the leaves and flower buds of the female cannabis plant were used in rituals as 1000 BC. The Atharvaveda describes bhang as herb that releases anxiety.
 
