CHENNAI: It was again a case of so near yet so far for the Indian   team. Even though they were pitted against a tough opponent like Canada in their backyard, captain   had set an achievable target ahead of the tie.

 “We are not dreaming of 5-0. We are focussed on winning 3 out of the 5,” Bhupathi had said. But alas, his team lost the tie 2-3. 
 
 “We are definitely disappointed,” Bhupathi told TOI from Edmonton after the tie. “We came so close to making it to the World Group but we failed again. It was those missed chances throughout the tie that cost us. At this stage if you don’t grab every little opportunity you get, you will have to pay dearly. And till we sort this out, there will be a huge gap between India and the best.”
 
 India's top singles player Ramkumar Ramanathan had kick-started their campaign on a high note winning the first rubber against Brayden Schnur 5-7, 7-6, 7-5, 7-5. Yuki Bhambri fought tooth and nail against teen sensation Denis Shapovalov but went down in 5 sets. Canada took lead against India when doubles duo Rohan Bopanna and Purav Raja went down rather meekly to Daniel Nestor and  . 
 
 But India's hopes were all when Ramkumar failed to halt Shapovalov's carnage and thus Bhambri's win in the last rubber was nothing more than a consolation win. But inspite of the loss, Bhupathi had nothing but praise for his singles players.
 
 “I am really proud of the way they have played. Ram and Yuki showed the hunger and the fighting spirit on the opening day. As a captain I can be proud. I knew Canada was the toughest we had but to be honest I believed we could win the tie because of the summers both Yuki and Ra have had. Even today Ram had two set points in the second set. Had he converted them, it could have been a different story,” Bhupathi said. 
 
 So will the duo be the next big thing in singles in a country which has a dearth of singles talent? “I think after a long time I am really excited by the future of these two players. I think Ram is especially doing exceptionally well and Yuki needs to work on staying healthy. If they can continue they hard work both of them will break into top-100 soon.”
 
 But if the singles matches brought hope, the doubles disappointed Bhupathi. “We have had problems in doubles for a few ties now. We still have not been able to strike the correct combination. Saketh (Myneni) wasn’t fit to partner Bopanna and Purav was brought but that isn’t an excuse for the loss. We need to address this issue soon.”
 
