LUCKNOW: Samajwadi Party national president chief minister Akhilesh Yadav’s hint of aligning with “secular” parties including the   to halt the saffron surge has triggered the biggest political churning in the country, which may lead to shaping up of a Bihar-type Grand Alliance of the anti- BJP parties.

 Before results are announced on Saturday, no one either from the   or BSP has denied or opposed prospect of coming together and with Congress playing a catalytic role, a Grand Alliance in UP is possible. The only difference will be that this would be after the polls and against public mandate, while in Bihar, JD (U) and RLD who were rivals for a long time united to halt the saffron march and succeeded.
 
 SP general secretary Ram Gopal Yadav, who shares cordial relations with BSP chief   and its general secretary Satish Chand Mishra might play mediator. He had once praised Mayawati as chief minister and told media that functioning of officers during Mayawati’s regime was far better than during SP rule.
 
 The way Akhilesh Yadav total control of the party by dislodging his father Mulayam Singh Yadav and showing door to the “liabilities”, he has been giving clear signal that he would chart a new course in the politics without carrying baggage of family or “outsiders”. 
 
 Hinting at joining hands with BSP is another step beyond the ideological framework of the Samajwadi Party drawn by Mulayam Singh Yadav. The two parties had come together in 1993 and contested elections jointly in the wake of Ram Janmabhoomi movement. In 1995 ,their alliance was broken as the political partnership materialised only at the top level and did not percolate to the social level as Backwards and the Dalits clashed with each other for power. Since then, the two parties have remained inimical to each other, carving out their own territory over the last 15 years rotating power between them.
 
 If Congress plays referee, and Grand Alliance is formed in Uttar Pradesh, it would be the beginning of the battle for 2019 parliament elections and raise a formidable political force against the BJP by uniting the OBCs, Dalits and the Muslims all over the country.
 
 
