MUMBAI:   that will connect existing airport to upcoming airport at   will be partially underground. The corridor, whose detailed project report (DPR) is being prepared, will ensure high-speed connectivity between both the existing airport and the proposed one.

 Metropolitan Commissioner U P S Madan said, “The corridor will be partially undergroundup to   Highway-Chheda Nagar junction.”
 
 From here onwards it will take the elevated route on Ghatkopar-Mankhurd Link Road (GMLR). Madan said, “Cost of the project and exact alignment and number of stations will be known once DPR is ready.” 
 
 A senior official said, “It cannot be fully elevated because Metro I (Versova-Andheri-Ghatkopar) alignment that runs through the Andheri-Ghatkopar Link Road is elevated. Two elevated metro cannot come up side by side.”
 
 The state government plans to merge the   corridor with the CST-Panvel high-speed corridor beyond Mankhurd, as both the rail system will run on standard gauge. As a part of CST-Panvel corridor,   (MRVC) plans to connect Navi Mumbai International Airport with the high-speed corridor. 
 
 From Seawoods, a 8.5 km loop line would fork out in the direction of proposed international airport road.
 
 Since, the CST-Panvel corridor will have standard gauge, there is no need to build separate line beyond Mankhurd to run Metro services to airport. This will also save cost. 
 
 Metro services to airport will run at a frequency of 20 to 30 minutes. Such less number of services per hour is unlikely to impact the punctuality in big way. CST-Panvel hi-speed corridor will have to traverse via 2 km long bridge above the creek between Vashi-Mankhurd. This is going to be challenging, costly and time-consuming too.
 
 Earlier, City Industrial Development Corporation (Cidco) had dropped the plan to have Metro corridor along the   because of CST-Panvel high speed corridor. Cidco had planned 25 km long Metro corridor along the Palm Beach Road between Vashi-Panvel. CIDCO has dropped the Metro corridor plan as suburban high-speed corridor will cater to the areas in close proximity of the road.
 
 
