NEW DELHI: The ‘Train for Clean Air: Clean Air for Kids’ project came to an end on Thursday with three schools presenting their work on air pollution to the US embassy, Delhi government and Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).

 The schools had been working on the three-month programme organised by international NGO Clean Air Asia since November 2016, gathering data from the capital on air pollution — through surveys, live readings and presentations on workings of monitoring stations.
 
 The three schools which took part in the project included   (KG Marg), Sarvodaya Vidyalaya ( ) and Sarvodaya Vidyalaya (Vasant Vihar). 
 
 The ‘most enterprising activity’ award went to SV (Vasant Vihar) students for their presentation, street play and work on monitoring air quality near their school.
 
 “We are now trying to inform as many people as possible, including our parents, about the impact of air pollution and just how bad the situation is,” said 14-year-old Virender Pal from SV (Vasant Vihar). He further said that the students from his school have pledged not to burn crackers this year. “You don’t notice how bad the air is, until you see it for yourself,” he added.
 
 According to Clean Air Asia, the programme will be extended to more schools this year and will also focus on finding solutions. “This time, the aim was to raise awareness among schoolchildren, especially from government schools and provide them with practical knowledge,” said Prarthana Borah, India director of Clean Air Asia.
 
 “Workshops and activities were planned in such a way that they realise the impact of air pollution and can then educate others about it. We plan to spread this to more schools now as well as look at finding solutions, which the children can suggest,” Borah added.
 
 The project focused on targeting the age group 12-14 years with bilingual — Hindi and English — workshops. The students were then assigned air quality projects, which were to be conducted both near their school and around Delhi. The initiative was also backed by the US embassy.
 
 “Young children need to do things practically as it leaves a deeper impact on their mind. Now, these students can come up with solutions and they can also inform and educate others,” said Dr Craig L Dicker, counsellor, public affairs, US Embassy.
 
 A tool kit to measure air pollution was also launched at the event on Thursday.
 
 
