THANE: The population in lake city has increased in the last few years, however, certain facilities like a an appropriate   has always been a matter of concern to burry the departed soul. To meet this demand, the municipal administration has proposed to develop a mammoth multi-faith crematorium on the outskirts of the Thane.

 The   has identified the land parcel of over 25,000 sq meters in sector 6 in Bhayenderpada area along the Ghodbunder Road which it proposed to be developed into a crematorium ground that will cater to the Hindus, Dawoodi Bohras, Christians, Jews, Lingayats and other communities. 
 
 The entire plot of land was originally reserved as a green zone would be de-rserved for a muti-faith crematorium and the urban development department has given its go-ahead to the civic administration’s   in November 2016.
 
 The need for a resting place for the departed from various communities was being presented before elected representatives since the last few years. 
 
 The migration of residents from various faiths into the lake city increased over the years in the city that was once the domain of largely Marathi speaking Hindu residents. The 2011 Census figures state that of the roughly 18 lakh residents of Thane, 73.91% or around 13 lakh residents belong to the Hindu faith while approximately 18 % or 3.3 lakhs follow Islam while 2 % or around 34,000 follow Christianity among others.
 
 Accordingly, the need for having a proper burial ground and cemetery facilities for the faiths that had a notable followers in the city was felt since long. Few community members had to take their deceased members to Mumbai or neighbouring cities as there was inadequate burial grounds in the city limits. Members of the Christian community said they had to forego traditional coffins and wrap few bodies in white clothes and bury the dead thanks to the lack of adequate burial space in Thane.
 
 “The population of the Christian community is huge in Thane but there was no space for a proper burial ground. The existing space we had was proving inadequate. We had to travel all the way to Sewri for burying the deceased or often bury bodies without the coffin. We have been demanding a proper space for long now,” says Jerry David, presidents of Thane Christian Welfare Association.
 
 As per the plans, around 8000 sqm space has been allocated for Hindu crematorium and burial grounds (see box) for further details. 
 
 “The large tract of land was originally a green belt and we have received an approval for using the same for a crematorium. The city population has seen a huge jump in volume of people from other faith and there is a demand for burial place for their deceased. We have proposed to develop the same at sector 6 in Bhayenderpada and the same has been put up for approval of the first general body that will meet next week,” said a senior civic official.
 
 
