AHMEDABAD: The   has begun its biggest exercise of counting birds across the state, with those frequenting the 1,650 km long coastline to be counted for the first time. So far, the department was focusing only on birds in the coastal wetlands while ignoring the large number of birds which arrive at the seashore. This time the census will be conducted across 16 districts, including coastal districts and those with major wetlands.

 Uday Vora, officer in-charge of the census said that officials are following the methodology of the   and the census will be continued from January to April. 
 
 Vora said the decision to include the coastline in the bird census was suggested during a meeting of the state wildlife board which was chaired by the chief minister. The forest department is trying to get a better picture of the number of birds that come to the state during winter.
 
 Gujarat, currently, has the second-highest count of winged visitors after Odisha, which has over two million birds visiting every year. During the meeting, members informed that in reality, Gujarat has the highest count of birds migrating to the state, if those migrating to coastal areas were counted.
 
 Officials said the count is to start in January, because this is the time when the highest number of birds migrate to the state. 
 
 The decision to begin the coastal census was made after the count at   revealed six lakh birds, said an official. 
 
 As Gujarat had never carried out a census of coastal birds, it was decided to conduct the census to record exact numbers and the species of birds that visit the state.
 
 The state wildlife board stated that this year, around 10 lakh migratory birds were found in three wetlands. There were over six lakh birds in Narabet, 3.13 lakh birds in Nalsarovar and over 60,000 birds in Thol. 
 
 Officials said that once the exercise concludes, an updated list of birds may be compiled and displayed for the public.
 
 Volunteers who are taking part in the census have been asked by officials to be extra cautious if the bird count in any spot was more than 5,000. 
 
 Volunteers have also been asked to record the global positioning of the start and end points of such areas, so that when the count is enumerated, the figures can be placed on exact locations on the map.
 
