MUMBAI:   is discussing a Rs 300-crore investment in the student living services business of   (MEMG), as the Wall Street bellwether looks to identify high growth niches in India’s rent-yielding real estate economy. 

 The Bengaluru-headquartered MEMG runs premium student hostels under Yoho brand with an existing capacity of more than 5,000 beds across multiple cities. A proprietary investment arm of Goldman Sachs is likely to pick up around 49% stake in the unit, housed under Manipal Integrated Services currently, said a person with direct knowledge of the matter.
 
 Billionaire Ranjan Pai-led MEMG operates a network of private hospitals and education campuses in India and abroad. In 2012, Manipal forayed into student living services to leverage on the country’s young population and rising education. Student living is a mature, multi-billion dollar industry in North America and European markets where private equity giants like   have made investments in the past. 
 
 Manipal Integrated Services later acquired  , a gated living provider for students and young professionals, and sees significant expansion opportunities as educational campuses hive off capex-heavy student hostel facilities to focus on core operations.
 
 Manipal has stated plans to establish student hostel facilities with 20,000 beds to support the group’s educational institutes and an additional 10,000 beds for third-party universities in India and abroad. IDFC had come on board as an investor to build an integrated facilities management company, but exited last year as Manipal sold its institutional catering and facilities management businesses to  .
 
 Goldman Sachs is exploring investment with Manipal as it plans to bet on India’s healthcare and real estate opportunities, though the deal making isn’t definitive yet, sources cited earlier in the report added. Goldman is seeking a ‘platform deal’ with Manipal to aggressively expand the gated living services for students and young professionals in India, which may not include Manipal’s campuses overseas, sources said.
 
 MEMG declined to comment, while Goldman Sachs could not be reached for comments immediately.
 
 
