NOIDA: RWA federation met authority CEO Deepak   on Wednesday evening over DND maintenance issue as well as other pending works in Noida city. These include regular fogging of sectors due to increased mosquito presence of late, the need to address increased stray dog menace, time lag for open gyms as sanctioned by authority earlier last year, underground cabling of power lines to ensure safety from thunderstorm and showers, provision for water kiosks and toilets at bus stops and more.

 “We met CEO Agarwal and apprised him of the negligent condition of DND such as lack of regular cleaning, lighting, upkeep of plants and police patrolling etc. This situation is because of absence of clear authority over the maintenance of DND following Supreme Court verdict of (Nov 11, 2016) upholding the Allahabad High Court order of (Oct 26, 2016) for a toll free DND,” said  , president Federation of Noida Residents Welfare Association ( ).
 
 Earlier, a similar request was made by NCR RWA (on Feb 20) to authority and also Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal.
 
 To this, CEO Agarwal maintained that “the authority has written to   (NTBCL) to look into the maintenance of DND as per the agreement of the concessionaire,” said Singh who also requested an office of SP city on DND to look into daily law and order of the road, to which CEO Agarwal agreed to write a letter to the SSP office.
 
 Further, while on mosquito issue CEO Agarwal agreed to immediate fogging of residential sectors, on stray dog menace he maintained that “time till June 30 is given to SPCA after which, authority will take over the job of dog sterilisation from them,” informed Singh.
 
 While on open gyms, CEO Agarwal maintained that work of tenders is completed and final work will begin only after March 11, he agreed to take the issue of underground cabling of power lines in the city with the power department. 
 
 In the meeting that was held in the board room of Noida authority in the presence of ACEO, DCEO and other senior officers of the authority, FONRWA also requested the opening of one side of the under-construction elevated road in front of Prakash Hospital to ease traffic movement which is currently blocked due to no access of the area. "To this CEO agreed to look into the matter and speak to the concerned contractor on its feasibility,” said Singh.
 
 Apart from this, the RWA federation made a strong pitch for lack of gardeners and subsequent upkeep of parks in residential sectors. They suggested CEO Agarwal to issue 50 % of tender money to sector RWAs which are not covered by horticulture department, to look into the upkeep of their parks and plants. “This was agreed by CEO Agarwal,” said Suresh Tiwari, senior vice president FONRWA. 
 
 Other issues which were agreed upon include constructing of boundary walls in sectors which do not have land dispute with neighbouring villages, covering of drains to be looked into by technical team and measures to create water kiosks and toilets at bus stops in the city.
 
 Further issues discussed included quality and quantity of drinking water, fare of car parking, eviction of encroachment on roads and plots in sectors, disposal and treatment of municipal wastes, periodical drive for cleaning of nalas (drains) and sewage system and repair of street lights.
 
 Apart from this, FONRWA also urged for periodical visits of project engineers in residential sectors.
 
