LUCKNOW: Technical snags may have taken a backseat within a week of the launch of Lucknow Metro, but Lucknow   Rail Corporation (LMRC) is finding it difficult to fix a new problem — littering. Many commuters have begun spitting  , eating inside trains and throwing trash on the floor.

 Lucknowites may not be well-versed with the etiquettes to be followed in the Metro, but the instances of paan stains and trash on the floor clearly indicate towards the ignorant behaviour and ‘sab chalta hai’ attitude prevalent in Uttar Pradesh.
 
 LMRC said that though the recently launched train service is a major attraction for people from nearby towns and villages, the infrastructure is mainly being used by Lucknowites. Their assessment proves that the residents of the capital city have the onus of keeping the Metro clean.
 
 The starting point of the Metro Corridor, Transportnagar station, is the first casualty of littering. Paan stains can be found on flowerpots and stairs of the entrance. Despite a full-fledged team of sanitary workers busy cleaning and mopping the floors every half an hour, the stains are difficult to wipe away. The stains can be seen getting lighter, but areas that cannot be washed, like walls, terrace, balcony, etc, bear heavily-stained surfaces.
 
 One can see receipts of tokens dumped on the floor near the ticket vending machine and wrappers of tobacco products thrown inside the station premises. The worst form of littering is seen in places with the maximum footfall, the metro   of Alambagh Bus Station and Charbagh, where heaps of garbage can be spotted at the entrance.
 
 People have not even spared the plants decorating the stations. Thick stains of paan deface the beautiful flowerpots, marring the beauty of the stations.
 
 Though LMRC has installed western water kiosks, which jets out water after switching on a button, many passengers unaware of how to use this facility are putting their mouth near the tap to drink water directly. Besides being unhygienic, the tap’s misuse is also leading to water being sprinkled on the sides.
 
 Commuters seem to flouting rules with impunity by eating inside trains and throwing waste on the floor. Some have even damaged the interiors of the trains. TOI found that in one of the trains the seal of the seat had been ripped off.
 
 Kumar Keshav of LMRC said, “We want the people of Lucknow to take ownership of the Metro and care for it like their own property. Like Delhi, we also need to keep our premises clean. People need to develop the same kind of attitude here.”
 
 (With inputs from Vidita Chandra & Urooj Khan)
 
 
