Mumbai: Challenging a month-old order in its tussle with  ,   argued before an appeal bench of the Bombay HC on Tuesday that a virtual freeze on airing its ice cream commercial needs to be set aside.

 The   — popularly known as Amul, the country’s food product marketing giant with an annual turnover of over $4 billion — is appealing against a June 16 order of a single judge, Justice S J Kathawalla, of the Bombay HC. The judge had pulled two of Amul’s ads off the air for seeking to malign or belittle a rival manufacturer’s product. The rival, HUL, also a fast moving consumer goods giant, had sued Amul for Rs 10 crore, alleging that the television advertisement was denigrating its   frozen desserts. Amul’s counsel Ravi Kadam, a former state advocate general, informed the appeal bench of Justices S S Khemkar and M S Sonak that the June order was “like a blanket ban”. He added that without admitting to any wrongdoing by Amul, at best, the order could have sought omission of any portion being objected to. He said the “Amul ice cream ad doesn’t denigrate HUL’s frozen desserts, but merely informs consumers that   contain vanaspati tel”. Vanaspati tel is vegetable oil, as defined by Oxford dictionary. “There is nothing wrong in using the word vanaspati tel,” he said. 
 
 But Biren Saraf, counsel for HUL, said that the single judge had found that the entire ad campaign was “actuated by malice”. He said the visuals’ representation suggests that the frozen dessert is a “cupful of vanaspati and nothing else”. “It is trying to exploit vulnerable minds of parents.” He said that courts have held in the past that it was not for them to advise how close to the winds to sail.When Saraf sought to address the court, Justice Khemkar smiled, “Yes, let us have the flavour of your dessert too.” The full ‘flavour’ of both Amul and HUL will be laid bare on August 21, the next date scheduled for a hearing to decide on admitting the appeal and seeking relief. Meanwhile, the Amul ads remain off air.
 
 
