AURANGABAD: Women elected to the   are often dismissed as proxy for their male relatives. A handful of them are, however, charting a path of their own to make everyone take note. 

 With 50% reservation in the local civic bodies, there are 57   in the 115-member civic body. They have often set aside their political differences or gone against their party to pursue a matter to reach a resolution. 
 
 For BJP corporator  , a high court advocate by profession, feels that it is a big challenge to draw the attention of the house towards the issues raised by the first-time corporators. After attending the initial two-three general body meetings, they realised that there is very little scope for women corporators to get their voice heard in the male-dominated house. 
 
 “We would not get enough time to speak on our issues or our concerns would fall on the deaf ears of the office-bearers. In the subsequent meeting, all the women corporators unanimously threatened to walk out of the hall if a patient hearing was not given to our concerns. Things have changed a lot since then,” she said.
 
 MIM corporator Sameena Shaikh Ilyas, a member of the vital standing committee, has played a crucial role in ensuring policy decisions are taken after the concerns and opinion of women members of the house is taken. 
 
 The first-time corportaor, who has a masters degree in political science, has also made the municipal administration speed up many pending projects. “When I meet people of my ward and listens to their grievances, I become restless. This feeling gives me strength to speak in the house,” she said. 
 
 Despite her first term in the house, MIM corporator Sangita Waghule, has learnt the art of catching attention of entire house when she speaks. Honourable sir, you should allot sufficient time to the women corporators. We too have issues of masses but authorities rarely pay attention towards it, she often says in standing committee and general body meetings. She is among few corporators who follows issues till they are resolved. 
 
 BJP Manisha Mundhe, a homemaker, is very conscious about civic amenities in her ward and never leaves chance to mount pressure on the authorities to get them completed in a time-bound manner. In a recent standing committee meeting, she insisted the standing committee chairman to direct municipal authorities to visit the locality where authorities were allegedly delaying the drainage project. 
 
