BHOPAL: Barely a week after the appointment of director (additional charge), the   has gone for administrative overhaul by changing hostel wardens and heads of different departments like security and others. MANIT has decided to place one warden in each hostel, instead of two. This has led to resentment on the campus, with some teachers alleging that people close to authorities have been given important responsibilities.

 Sources said 11 wardens have been deprived of responsibilities, and 3 new wardens have been appointed. “Earlier, there were 18 wardens in 9 hostels. Now, it is 10 as 11 have been removed and three new faces brought in,” said a senior official of MANIT. Newly appointed wardens are Junaid Rahim, PK Soni and Kamal Saini. 
 
 Security officer   has been deprived of his reponsibility. Now, there will be professor incharge of security and a security officer in MANIT. RK Dwivedi will be the professor incharge of security, PK Bhatt has been given the charge of security officer. Similarly,   will be the new state officer of MANIT.
 
 When contacted, chief of warden, NP Patidar said warden were changes after several issues arose in hostels in the past one year. “One warden policy was there for long time in MANIT. When I came to MANIT it was changed to two wardens. There were complaints of frictions between two wardens over several issues. In such a situation, we decided to have only one warden in each hostel.”
 
 He said that each hostel will have a supervisor and caretaker. In MANIT, warden is an additional task of the teaching faculty.
 
 Sources said hostel number 1 and 7 will be reserved for girls. Currently, there is one hostel for girls with the capacity of 900 students. A senior officer of MANIT on condition of anonymity said, “There have been demands to increase hostels for girls. Now that demand has been addressed.” 
 
 However, some teachers have started raising their voice against the decision. “Tainted people have been given important responsibilities. This will not send good message to students,” said a teacher. 
 
 Another teacher said, “We have been witnessing regular problems in MANIT. Will it be possible for one warden to control students in such a situation? What will happen if warden is not around.” 
 
