KOLKATA: Faced with increasing complaints of driver misdemeanour and counter complaints of rider misbehaviour, app cab aggregator   has issued exhaustive community guidelines for both, with a warning that flouting the norms will drive them off the platform.

 According to the guidelines, Uber bars any kind of physical contact between drivers and riders. “We make it amply clear that drivers shouldn’t touch or flirt with riders. Uber has a no-sex rule, that’s no  , no matter what. A driver should never hit or otherwise hurt a rider. Use of inappropriate and abusive language or gestures, like asking overly personal questions, using verbal threats, and making comments or gestures that are aggressive, sexual, discriminatory, or disrespectful are prohibited. Unwanted contact with riders after a trip through text messages, calls or visits is strictly prohibited. Flouting any of these norms will lead to the driver being blocked from the  ,” an Uber spokesperson said.
 
 The company has outlined other reasons for taking similar action. Texting while driving, speeding or otherwise breaking local traffic laws, or using Uber to commit a crime, including drug and human trafficking or sexual exploitation of children, will also lead to action against drivers.
 
 The guidelines call for a zero-tolerance policy towards discrimination. “It is unacceptable to refuse a ride based on where someone is going, or characteristics like a person’s race, caste, religion, national origin, disability, sexual orientation, marital status, gender identity or age,” the official said.
 
 Consistent poor rating by riders or frequent cancellation of trips may also lead to drivers losing their Uber accounts. 
 
 “After every trip, drivers and riders are able to rate each other on a scale of one to five stars, as well as give feedback on how the trip went. This two-way system holds everyone accountable for their behaviour. Accountability helps create a respectful, safe environment for both drivers and riders. Drivers can see their current rating in the ratings tab of the Uber Partner app,” said the spokesperson.
 
 Similarly, the company has laid out ground rules for riders. Smoking or vomiting in the car due to excessive alcohol consumption, damaging the car or the driver’s phone, or intentionally spilling food or drink can lead to cancellation of the rider from the platform. Physical contact with the driver or fellow rider, use of abusive language or gestures like asking overly personal questions, making verbal threats, and making comments or gestures that are aggressive, sexual, discriminatory or disrespectful and unwanted contact with fellow passenger or driver after the trip can lead to the rider being blocked from the Uber platform.
 
 “The way you behave while using Uber can have a big impact on the safety and comfort of drivers, as well as fellow passengers. Courtesy matters. That’s why you are expected to exercise good judgement and behave decently towards other people in the car when riding with Uber — just as you would in any public place,” the official said.
 
