
What the cycle meant to the underclass in rural north India in the 1980s, the motorcycle signifies today: owner’s pride, dowry essential and upward mobility. Several Dalits in Shabbirpur, whose houses were set on fire on May 5, were proud owners of 100cc bikes. Ramrati also had a colour TV with huge speakers. Kamala’s family owned a steel almirah, a refrigerator and two colour TVs.
 
 Visit nearby villages and the signs of affluence are even more apparent. Take the Dalits of Gharkauli village. “About 20 years ago, Dalits owned only one or two motorcycles in our village. Now they have at least five cars, five tractors and 75 motorbikes,” says Mainpal, a graduate. Farmers, daily wagers, migrant workers and shopkeepers — their occupations are diverse. “We even have a bank manager,” says Mainpal.
 
 This prosperity has brought a new assertiveness about their social identity, typified by the welcome board put up by the roadside last year. The sign announced the caste name of the community, prefixed with the words ‘The Great’. 
 
 Calling a person by his caste name is an offence according to the Supreme Court. But Mainpal, a supporter of Bhim Army (see box), says that they don’t want to hide their caste identity. “We are proud of what we are. But some people from other communities obviously don’t like the board,” he says.
 
 Other Dalits, mostly young, nod in agreement. Political commentator Chandra Bhan Prasad equates this declaration to the 1960s ‘Black is Beautiful’ movement in the US.
 
 Meanwhile, a bleak story unfolds at Rasoolpur village, the home of Sumit Rana, the 27-year-old Thakur and father of two kids who died in Shabbirpur. Most Dalits who lost their life’s possessions were daily wagers earning Rs 250 per day. So was Sumit.
 
  
  
 
 
 The son of an ageing marginal farmer, Brahm Singh — the family owns 2.5 bighas of land — Sumit had gone to visit his father’s sister who lives there, his relatives say. The family doesn’t seem to be any better or worse off than most of the Dalits whose homes were attacked.
 
 “They call us savarn (upper caste). But we have nothing,” says a relative Jasbir Singh. Then he adds with a trace of bitterness, “Sarkar koi bhi aaye, inhi ke geet gaaye (Irrespective of party, every government only backs Dalits).”
 
 Others complain that they have no money to spend on good education, that there is no reservation or jobs for them. “They go to army and police selection trials and return empty-handed,” says Tarun Pundir, an affluent Thakur who owns 100 bighas of land in Bhayla Khurd, a Thakur-majority village. 
 
 As in Rasoolpur, many Rajputs in Bhayla Khurd are marginal farmers who own between two to eight bighas of land. The returns are meagre since they live in joint families. “A majority of Rajputs in our village are doing well for themselves. But some are worse off than the Dalits,” says Sudhir Pundir, who works for a transport company in Delhi. Tarun Pundir concurs.
 
 The larger picture emerging from these villages is that class formations no longer clearly follow caste lines in western Uttar Pradesh. A Thakur isn’t a synonym for the prosperous and a   isn’t always underprivileged.
 
 The   caste riots, which also claimed the life of a Dalit, Ashish Meghraj, on May 23, reflect the tensions caused by economic change that is yet to be matched with social change. Thaat Singh, a Thakur farmer with 10 bighas of land, explains why. “We used to have friendly relations with the Dalits. But it is different now. Akad aa gayi hai. Zyaada upar pahunch gaye hain” (They have developed an attitude since they became well-off), he says.
 
 The changing economic order is reflected in the anniversary celebrations of icons, saints and leaders by various caste groups. These several-day-long festivities are also a way of flaunting community confidence, unity and muscle. 
 
 The roots of the Shabbirpur conflict trace back to last April when the Thakurs objected and stopped the installation of an Ambedkar statue in the village without obtaining requisite official permission. On May 5, when the Dalits opposed the passing of a Thakur procession celebrating medieval king Maharana Pratap’s anniversary through the village without permission, clashes broke out. The Thakurs insist that stones were thrown at them. The Dalits say they were attacked with swords. But going through the village, it is clear that Dalit homes bore the real brunt of destruction.
 
 The Dalits allege that the Thakurs are emboldened by one of their own caste,  , becoming the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh. But the disadvantaged Thakurs of Shabbirpur and Rasoolpur offer a different point of view. “If it is our government, how come our boy was killed on the day of our celebration?” asks Ankit Pundir, a Class XI student from Shabbirpur. 
 
 
 
 Dalit politics is abuzz with talk of the Bhim Army and its charismatic founder Chandrashekhar Azad, a 30-year-old advocate. “Much to the discomfort of upper castes, he has appropriated their symbols of swagger in rural UP: the twirled moustache and the Bullet motorcycle,” says political commentator Chandra Bhan Prasad. He has grabbed headlines with the slogan “Hum is desh ke shasak hain (we are the rulers of this nation),” and his in-your-face identity politics has enthused many young Dalits. Azad’s Bhim Army is being seen as a possible challenger to Mayawati’s BSP, even though Azad has said in an interview to ABP News that he does not want to be involved in politics, and would rather stay focused on educating his community through pathshalas (schools).
 
 
 
 
 
