By: Archana More

 PLOT THICKENS AT BISHOP’S SCHOOL
 
 School   member complains against threats, damage to property by Freese ‘supporters’; insiders claim that the CEO has already been granted several extensions
 
 In a new twist to the saga unfurling at the   in the city, a member of the school’s governing body has filed an FIR against 15 persons, including teachers and other staffers of the school – the complaint charges them for protesting the decision of the board to retire the school’s current   (CEO) and  ,  .
 
 Now, Lashkar police have booked the accused persons, including Alistair Freese, Frank’s son, who has been charged with encouraging rioting as well as threatening the complainant, 74-year-old Loria D’cruz, a school governing body member. Besides Alistair, some of the other accused have been identified as Ijaj Husen Modak, Krishnan Chavhan, Akram Navab Shaikh, Kumar Kandiya and Vishal Jayash Gandhi, besides nine others, who include students, parents and teachers of Bishop’s School.
 
 The incident that sparked the plaint took place on April 11 on the school campus in Camp. On the day, a general body meeting was taking place in the school’s conference hall, when a mob of at least 30 people — including ex-students, parents of school students, teachers and employees of the school — gathered outside to protest the board’s decision about 73-year-old Freese. According to Dcruz, they were demanding at least another three-year extension to Freese’s tenure, and even threatened her, besides breaking a few glass windows of the venue. At the time, emotions had run high, with several of the agitators claiming Freese’s forced exit was unjust, adding that he has been the CEO of all three of the chain’s schools and principal of the Camp branch for the last 18 years.
 
 However, the plot thickens, as according to insiders, management members are saying they had organised a farewell assembly for Freese on the day, followed by the board meeting at 10 am. A board member had also reportedly clarified earlier on social media that Freese has been granted over 10 extensions over the years and in 2015, were specifically granted their ‘final’ extension of two years. However, as the deadline neared, they claimed antisocial elements accompanied by ex-students, some parents, teachers and conservancy workers of the school, threatened the board to grant Freese another extension. It was also questioned as to how Freese had garnered their support.
 
 Assistant police inspector Vitthal Salunkhe told Mirror, “We have booked 15 people, including the son of Freese. The accused had gathered outside the Harding Hall to protest the general body’s decision. While looking into it, we found that Freese had been the principal of the school for nigh on two decades, and was to finally retire on May 31this year. But, another extension was demanded by agitators, and they also damaged school property during the protest. We have booked the named persons under several sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), which involve unlawful assembly, rioting, criminal trespass, damage to property, breach of peace and criminal intimidation.
 
 Other parents of the school’s students, however, seemed to feel this issue needs to be managed internally. Advocate Abhijeet Bidkar, whose children attend the Bishop’s School, felt the ugliness of what is happening could impact the young students. He said, “Many feel the school should sort out the issue in court or at least appoint a mediator. When such protests happen in front of children, it could create a negative impact on them.”
 
