MUMBAI: A Norwegian group of former drug addicts and ex-convicts-turned yoga devotees set up base in Mumbai a month ago to construct a public toilet for women near the   railway station. The group, called `Back in the Ring,' is almost through with the construction of the toilet and plans to make it accessible to the common public by mid-April.

 The 15-member group is led by  , who took up this initiative as part of `karma yoga' after observing the deplorable state of civic amenities with regard to basic sanitation and hygiene, especially for women. The project is jointly funded by the Norwegian Chari table Organization-BITR along with the  . The group is scheduled to head back to Norway on March 15, after which the corporate group will take up maintenance of the toilet on completion.The group has carried out similar projects in Goa and Karnataka during their previous India tours.
 
 While in Mumbai, the group stayed in the red-light area of Grant Road, only recently shifting to a modest hotel at  . A group member also contracted pneumonia but is now recovering.Several others suffered from dysentery and exhaustion. “The heat, the noise, and pollution ­ it all took a toll on us. However, we continued working on constructing the toilet. Each of us would reach the site at 10am every day (from February 17) and finish our work at 5pm,“ said Medin, founder of the group.
 
 He hopes the project will capture the attention of corporates and politicians who could channel the necessary funds to take it forward. “I wanted to use this project as an example. If some people from Norway , especially former drug addicts, can give their own time, energy and money to people they don't even know, we hope it will have a ripple effect among Indians,“ Medin said.
 
 Another member from the group, Albin Bendu, 49, was in prison when he met Alexander who had started a yoga programme for inmates. “To be a part of this project has been a very rewarding experience. I am honoured to do this for the women of Mumbai,“ said Bendu.
 
