PUNE: A 33-year-old unemployed man was arrested on a cheating complaint filed by his businessman father.

 The man obtained a cheque book in the name of his father, 59-year-old Rambhau Narayan Ranawade from  , forged his signature and withdrew more than Rs4.72 lakh in the three months since December 15, 2016.
 
 The man squandered his ill-gotten money in merrymaking. He ran out of luck on Friday, after the senior Ranawade got a rude shock, learning of his depleted balance upon a visit to the bank.
 
 An inquiry conducted by Ranawade laid bare his son Sunil’s modus operandi. An unforgiving Ranawade then approached the police who took Sunil into custody.
 
 Ranawade runs a welding business in Dhankawdi. “I visited the bank to withdraw Rs5,000, but I was shocked to see my reduced balance in my account,” he said, “I got my statement and found that there were several transactions done, and Rs4,76,800 was withdrawn between December 15, 2016 and March 16, 2017.”
 
 He said, “I met the manager of the  , and told him that I had not done any of these transactions, and that I had my cheque book to prove it. The manager panicked, and after verifying records told me that the bank had issued an emergency cheque book in my name, and that varying amounts were withdrawn after verifying my signature. The cheques also had the seal of my business.”
 
 Ranawade said he holds the bank responsible. “The incident occurred because of the bank’s negligence, as they did not verify my signature, or identity proof before issuing a new cheque book. I did not get any calls from the bank before clearing the cheques. The manager has washed off his hands saying that he had followed due procedure,” he alleged. 
 
 “My son has confessed to his involvement in the crime. I don’t want to pardon him and hence I took the decision to hand him over to police. This is because I own several properties and I fear that Sunil may forge documents and sell the properties at a throwaway price. I have decided to disown him once he gets out on bail. I will take care of his wife and two sons,” he added.
 
 Sub-inspector Vivek Padvi from the   police station said on Saturday, “Ranawade sold a farming land and deposited Rs8 lakh in the current account, but his son misused some of that money. Ranawade found just a balance of Rs1.5 lakh in the account when he visited the bank on Friday.”
 
 “We also learnt that Sunil also sold a vehicle his father had gifted him, without his knowledge. He will be in police custody till March 20,” Padvi added.
 
 The bank, however, did not respond to TOI’s text messages or calls.
 
