BENGALURU: The AICC team began consultations with MLAs on choosing a new chief for the party state unit on Tuesday, with energy minister   and water resources minister M B Patil locked in a close race for the top post.

 The team headed by AICC general secretary Karnataka in-charge   and the three secretaries held day-long consultations with legislators and other members. Going by the opinions and suggestions given at the meet, sources said Kumar, Patil, Congress leader in the Lok Sabha Mallikarjuna   and incumbent   have emerged favourites among the MLAs to lead the party in the 2018 assembly polls.
 
 Kharge’s name was mentioned by some legislators in the event of the party leadership preferring to continue the Ahinda concept, but to replace Parameshwara with another dalit. It’s learnt that a large number of legislators expressed their concern over what they perceived as the party leadership’s inconsistent stand on a number of issues, and projecting the Congress as anti-Vokkaliga and anti-Lingayat.
 
 Some legislators reportedly told Venugopal and his team that the party needs to review its strategy on rebranding the Congress from an Ahinda party to a “party of all communities’’ by giving representation to Vokkaligas and Lingayats at the top level.
 
 Some legislators are reported to have said: ``Kumar is undoubtedly a good organizer and a great asset to the party. But there are serious doubts whether he will be able to influence his (Vokkaliga) community voters and take all senior party leaders together.’’
 
 Health minister K R   is said to have told the team not to give the president’s post to moneybags. Former minister Satish L Jarkiholi, who is upset with Siddaramaiah, is said have explained how from being the CM’s confidant, he had distanced himself now. 
 
 Another section of legislators batted for a Lingayat, as they felt it will help break the clout of BJP state president B S Yeddyurappa over the community. “Even if we could manage to garner 10% of the Lingayat vote bank, it would change the overall outcome of the poll results,’’ they reportedly told the team.
 
 
