PATNA: The recent decision of the Centre and state government to commence commercial flight operation from   airbase has come as a boon for realtors and property buyers eying lucrative deals in the industrial township.

 Office-bearers of Patna chapter of Builders’ Association of India (BAI) have claimed that enquiries have lately come from IT firms from Bengaluru for setting up IT parks at Bihta.
 
 “We have been approached by a couple of Bengaluru-based IT firms, which are interested in setting up IT parks at Bihta. The firms have said they set up IT parks within a radius of 20km around airports and Bihta would satisfy the criterion for the same. Besides, few big coaching institutes have also made enquiries for setting up residential coaching centres near IIT-Patna in order to tap the demand of students,” said N K Thakur, chairman of Patna chapter of BAI. 
 
 He added the decision of road construction department to develop a dedicated expressway for the Bihta airbase has also added to the demand.
 
  experts claimed that Bihta is currently one of the most sought after options for property buyers in and around Patna as it has witnessed the facet of development in the recent years for being an industrial and education hub with advent of institutions like IIT-Patna, ESIC hospital-cum-medical college and a number of factories, including those of   Cobra and Hero Cycle.
 
 Several real estate firms are already working on ambitious residential projects, including mini townships spread over several hectares of land with provisions of basic civic amenities like roads, drainage, streetlights, schools and hospitals.
 
 “Vast expanses of land have been acquired by big real estate firms in and around Bihta in the past few years for executing ambitious realty projects. People started booking plots in big projects such as those related to township development from early 2000 and such projects are now taking final shape. The latest decision of commencing commercial flight operations from Bihta airbase is definitely going to act as a fillip for further real estate development there,” said Sachin Chandra, president- elect of BAI. 
 
 Bihta is in fact set to get three four-lane roads connecting it to Patna. Apart from four- laning of Khagaul-Shivala-Bihta road (dedicated expressway for Bihta airbase), works are also in progress on four-laning of   NH-30 and Bihta-Sarmera state highway (SH-78).
 
 
