As passenger safety in the railways is suffering due to financial constraints, the government must do a serious rethink on forcing the “cash-starved” transporter to bear the burden of subsidising passenger fares, which is hindering timely execution of ‘vital’ projects, such as widening of FOBs at   station and work related to track maintenance.

 As the railways has failed to take up challenges of large-scale modernisation, an expert said there was an urgent need for corporatisation of the construction and manufacturing wings which don’t need “railway expertise”. The railways can keep the core business of train operations.
 
 “This will ensure professionalism and accelerate the pace of execution of projects, such as widening of the FOB at Elphinstone,” he added.
 
 For decades, modernisation and upgradation of assets, vital for ensuring travel, are suffering due to lack of funds and the government must step in to tackle the worsening situation. “If the government can subsidise air travel, used by the upper and middle classes, why can’t it bear the burden of train fare subsidy?” said a   official, adding the entire passenger subsidy is imposed on railways.
 
 Fares of regional flights were subsidised by the government under the UDAN scheme launched by Prime Minister  . “Why can’t a similar model be adopted by the government for railways?” he added. An attempt was made in 2013 but the railways’ proposal for extra funds under the proposed Pradhan Mantri Rail Vikas Yojana (PMRVY) for taking up “socially desirable projects” was shot down.
 
 The railways has to foot a bill of around Rs 40,000 crore every year to subsidise passenger fares from its own earnings.
 
 The state-run transporter bears 43% cost of rail fares. The biggest drain on the railways exchequer is subsidy on suburban travel. Suburban passengers pay only 36% of the ticket cost, while the remaining amount is subsidised, which is cheaper than bus fares.
 
 After being denied funds from the general exchequer, the transporter, during Suresh Prabhu’s tenure, had drawn up a plan on the lines of ‘Give-It-Up’ campaign on cooking gas subsidy, for rail fares, where passengers could forego the ticket subsidy. But many feel such schemes will not generate enough funds to meet the massive amount needed for upgradation of assets and building vital passenger amenities.
 
