PUNE: In a bid to   from encroachment, the   would not allow any construction near them without the municipal commissioner's special permission.

 Not with standing if the water body concerned is earmarked in the development plan or not, developers would have to seek the civic chief 's permission before initiating any construction activity near it. The Development Control (DC) Rules specifically mentions this for the first time.
 
 The move comes against the backdrop of some developers filling up water bodies with debris and encroaching upon nullahs as well as water bodies to build high-rises. The initiative would help the civic body save nullahs from encroachment.
 
 Prim-Move, an agency appointed by the civic body, found 234 nullahs having a total length of 362.11 km criss-crossing the city with. Of this, a 15.93-km stretch is fully obstructed and another 51.89 km is partially encroached upon.
 
 The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)'s official document - the city development plan (CDP) - states that the development along the nullahs has not taken place in a scientific and planned manner, resulting in emergence of areas prone to flooding even after moderate rainfall.
 
 “The demand for land has increased, affecting the natural drains. Their width has been reduced at many places because of encroachment, affecting their carrying capacity,“ the CDP adds.
 
 Urban planner   said it was time the civic body took action against those encroaching upon the water bodies. “Many constructions have come up on water bodies and wetlands. The civic body, developers and buyers are responsible for the death of water bodies. The civic body must ensure the new DC rule is followed strictly,“ he said.
 
 Chandra Bhushan, the deputy director-general of Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), said increased rainfall intensity and urban flooding would become a common scenario and cities would have to prepare to tackle this problem. “We shall have to protect our water bodies,“ he said.
 
 Bhushan pointed out the cases of three recent flooding cases in Chennai, Mumbai and Leh, which received many times their monthly rainfall in a just a few hours. “Our assessment is that floods in Chennai were exacerbated by encroachment of water bodies and destruction of the city's natural drainage systems,“ said Bhushan.
 
 Susmita Sengupta, CSE's expert on water, observed that there was no legal protection for city lakes, catchment and drainage systems. Water bodies and their catchment have been encroached upon or taken away for housing and other buildings.
 
 According to the PMC records, the city's storm water drain network has been designed to carry 56mm of rainwater, while nullah designing and channelisation has been done considering 73.7mm rainfall.
 
 To carry the volume of 99.1mm of rain water, the city needs 1,028km of storm water drains, 365km of nullahs and 662 culverts.
 
