NAGPUR: “For  , the first factor that matters is to have a will. This will then be followed by art and skill, to be able to communicate effectively. It is not always what you say but how you say it that counts,” said OSD to Maharashtra CM  , on Monday.

 Bhartiya was speaking at a workshop on communication skill organized jointly by  ,   Placement Association and   at Dr Vasantrao Deshpande Hall, Civil Lines.
 
 In his keynote address. Bhartiya said “Effective communication is a two-way street. It’s not only how you convey a message so that it is received and understood by someone in exactly the way you intended, it’s also how you listen to gain the full meaning of what’s being said and to make the other person feel heard and understood. One should know the three ‘Ds’, that is decision, dedication and delivery of speech and I ensure you by following these aspects, anyone can become a good communicator within 50 days.” 
 
 “Being a good listener is one of the best ways to be a good communicator. Not only listening but quality listening is more significant. We speak things that we hear in our surroundings. This signifies listening by choice plays an important role in it. Try to listen to speeches related to different fields like corporate, entertainment, educational and sports which will help increase vocabulary. Many individuals struggle due to inability to communicate effectively as it holds them back in their career. Many brilliant students fail in group discussion and personal interview rounds because of lack of communication skills,” Bhartiya said.
 
 He said that non-verbal communication, or body language, includes facial expressions, movement and gestures and the tone of voice enhances verbal message. Every body part has the voice of expressing and it reflects confidence. Appearance and commitment to situation bring about tremendous change in communication. Lord Krishna is the best example of a communicator as he conveyed his message to Arjun while being in the battlefield.” 
 
 (Reporting by Uday Naidu)
 
