LUCKNOW: The seven-member gang that duped 24 residents of trans-Gomti area of lakhs of rupees with the false promise of registering a flat under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna in February was busted by Cyber Cell of city police on Tuesday. More than 600  , which had been cloned in different regions of north India were recovered.

 Chandini Chowk, Delhi resident Rupesh Shah and his aides Yash Gupta of Bhadohi and Mandeep Singh, Jasminder Singh, Gurpreet Singh, Harvendra Singh and Gurumukh Singh of Punjab set up a canopy outside branches of banks in Purania and Kapoorthala areas.
 
 The group told potential targets they can avail of the benefit of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna by registering for it by paying Rs 25 swiping their debit cards a text message for which they would receive after a few days.
 
 On February 16 and 17, the applicants started getting messages of huge amounts being debited from their accounts and approached Aliganj police to register FIRs. By that time, the group had disappeared from the city and had switched off the contact numbers they had given.
 
 The group had cloned the cards to withdraw thousands from bank accounts. SSP Deepak Kumar said everytime someone swiped the card, a group members standing behind noted down the debit card PIN.
 
 The team traced the hotel in   where the group stayed and took copies of government IDs and mobile number they had provided to the hotel management. Through surveillance the gang was tracked and its members arrested.
 
 Sub-inspector VVS Sirohi, constables Firoz Badr, Akhilesh Kumar Singh, Shareem and Santosh were part of the team which cracked the case. Details of their bank accounts were being examined and police recovered magnetic card reader, nine swipe machines, 604 cloned cards and an SUV. Kumar said the scale of fraud will be known once the bank accounts they had been operating were examined.
 
 Aged between 20 and 30, none of the seven accused has studied beyond standard XII but they made lakhs of rupees every month using their trick.
 
