PUNE: The   (KFD) or   has spread to newer areas in the  .

 The virus, which was first reported from a village in Maharashtra’s Sindhudurg district in January last year, has now spread to over 60 villages. It has infected 331 people and killed 19 in Dodamarg and Sawantwadi this year, so far.
 
 This has put the health officials on their toes, prompting them to intensify their fever surveillance activity in the surrounding areas and initiating inter-department measures to contain the disease’s spread.
 
 “The cases have gone down from June onwards as the transmission phase of the virus is over. It will begin again from November onwards. We aim to vaccinate maximum people at risk to protect them against the infection. 
 
 Currently, fever surveillance, tick-control measures and awareness activity are on through inter-department coordination of health, forest and animal husbandry departments,” state surveillance officer Pradip Awate told TOI.
 
 The virus activity that was limited to Dodamarg taluka of Sindhudurg district till last year has spread to villages in Sawantwadi from January this year. 
 
 “Monkeys keep moving from place to place. Their activity is not in our control. That’s precisely the reason for the spread,” district health officer Yogesh Sale said.
 
 The collective population of Dodamarg and Sawantwadi which is at risk of contracting the infection is about 67,705. “These are the people who will be vaccinated during three-month vaccination drive that will start from September. Vaccination during active case finding period is not recommended by the experts,” Sale added.
 
 Some of the novel approaches are being used for surveillance activity. “We have announced cash prize for anyone who reports monkey death to us. This helps us to initiate tick-control measures speedily,” Sale said. 
 
 He added that a monkey’s death by infection often indicates that humans are at risk. Hence, we conduct insecticide dusting in 50m radius of any spot where a monkey dies.
 
