PATIALA: Undeterred by a change in venue and Section 144 which was enforced in the district, a large number of   today assembled at Mehmadpur grain market on the outskirts of the Patiala district and started with their five-day protest in support of their demands. 

 The farmers had last evening agreed to shift the protest venue from outside private residence of Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh to the Mehmadpur grain market, about 14 km from the district headquarters, where preparations for the protest started in the morning. 
  
 The gathering gained strength by the afternoon as a number of farmer leaders, who had managed to elude the police crackdown, reached the protest site and started addressing the gathering. As per a rough estimate around 5000 farmers had gathered by Friday evening, while another 10000 are expected to reach and join the protest by Saturday morning. 
  
 Farmers arrived at the protest site in tractors and trolley, trucks and other modes of transportation and brought along utensils and stoves to run community kitchens (langars) which would be feeding the large assembly of farmers. Arrangement for water and sanitation had been made by the district administration. 
  
 The farmer leaders who addressed the gathering lamented that despite repeated promises made by the state government, an effective formula for complete debt waiver of the farmers had not yet been evolved even farmer suicides continued unabated in the state. 
  
 President of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) Ekta Dakaunda, Boota Singh said all political parties were now using the farm crisis of Punjab to further their own political interests without showing any concerns or finding a lasting solution to the problem. 
  
 The farmer leaders also vent their anguish against a series of orders passed by the   (NGT) and strict imposition of these by the state government to check burning of stubble. These leaders said the state government was trying to force these orders on the farmers in an attempt to check rising pollution which the fact remained that most of the pollution was being caused huge Industries, thermal plants and bricks kilns and only farmers were being ‘crushed’ in the name of environmental norms. 
  
 Joginder Singh, leader of   demanded that a bonus Rs 200 per acre should be given to the farmers if the government was really serious to curtail stubble burning in the state getting rid of the crop residue put a financial burden on the cultivators. 
  
 The farmers also demanded that the government should immediately issue a notification to nullify the validity of the bank cheques, agreements and property documents that were lying in possession of commission agents from whom the farmers had taken loans. This was necessary to check farmer suicides, he said. They also demanded ownership rights for the cultivators and landless farmers of the state. The leaders were also assertive to seek a lasting solution to the problem of stray cattle which destroyed huge chunks of standing crop every year.
  
 Nirbhay Singh, who was representing the Kirti Kisan Union, said the financial situation of the farmers could be improved if one member from the families of small and marginal farmers were given government jobs as had been promised by Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh in the poll manifesto. 
  
 Meanwhile, the security agencies continue to remain on their toes in view of the five-day protest. A large number of policemen were deployed at the protest venue along with fire tenders, riot control vehicles and mobile surveillance vans to keep round the clock vigil on the developments. Senior police officials including Patiala range IG A S Rai visited the site to review the arrangements.
  
 However, Darshan Pal, one of the senior leader of BKU Dakaunda said the farmers would continue with their protest in a peaceful manner and would not indulge in any activism that could create a law and order situation for the state authorities. “We only want them to hear our concerns and take effective measures to pull the state farmers from the present day crisis,” he said.
 
