MADURAI: The Madurai bench of the Madras high court on Monday directed the state government to file a counter to a case seeking desilting of Pechiparai, Perunchanai and Chittar dams and other water bodies in Kanyakumari district.

 Kumari Mahasabha secretary   in his public interest litigation said that the three dams cater to the needs of irrigation and drinking water in the district, but are filled with silt, due to which the water levels are so poor there.
 
 The petition came up before the division bench headed by Justice A Selvam.
 
 According to the petitioner, the 425.5 m (1,396 ft) long and 120.7 m (396 ft) wide Pechiparai dam was constructed in 1906. Its catchment area is 207.19 sq km. Its depth is 14.63m (48 ft). Now, the dam’s water level is just four feet.
 
 Likewise, the 72 feet height - Perunchanai dam, constructed in 1952 to store flood waters of Paralayar river, has now just six feet of water. The other two dams - Chittar 1 and Chittar 2, have no water at all. Half of the catchment areas of those dams are full of silt and sand which ultimately affects water levels, the petitioner said.
 
 It further said that Kanyakumari district receives water from both northeast and southwest monsoons. Most of the people fully depend upon agriculture and its allied activities. Since the entire district is suffering due to shortage of rainfall, this is the right time to clean the dams. 
 
 Urging to desilting the dams the petitioner sent representations to the state’s chief secretary and public works department secretary on September 6 last. On December 1, the PWD’s executive engineer informed the petitioner that the department would dredge the reservoirs through the financial assistance of the  .
 
 The officials prefer to do postal works. They are not interested in taking positive steps in cleaning the dams. Hence, the court should issue a direction to the officials to desilt and maintain the dams in the district, the petitioner said. 
 
 Following it, the court sought reply.
 
