GURUGRAM: A 30-year-old TV journalist was shot dead by four persons on the busy Jharsa Road on Friday afternoon, allegedly following an argument. 

 Surender Singh Rana, was the Haryana state coordinator of Jammu-based news channel, JK 24x7 News. Police said the   was the fallout of a monetary dispute.
 
 According to police, Surender was driving down Jharsa Road towards Civil Lines in his silver   around 1.15 pm when he spotted a liquor shop and stopped. He bought a bottle of whiskey and went back into his SUV. 
 
 Eyewitnesses told cops a Santro came and stopped in front of Surender’s Safari a few minutes later. Three men and a woman, aged around 35 years, got out of the car, and asked Surender to step out too. An argument ensued between the journalist and the accused, and one of the men managed to get hold of Surender’s licenced revolver hidden under his T-shirt and pumped six bullets into him. The accused then fled in their car.
 
 Police were informed and a team, led by inspector Karmbir Khatana, SHO of Civil Lines police station, reached the spot and rushed Surender to  , where he was declared brought dead. Police, however, said they were not sure if Surender’s gun was used in his murder. “It’s not yet confirmed yet, though no weapon was found on the spot. Any revolver could have been used to commit the crime. The victim sustained bullet injuries in his chest and neck, and died on the spot,” said Sumit Kuhar, DCP (crime), Gurgaon.
 
 Surender’s body has been kept in a mortuary and the post-mortem will be conducted on Saturday.
 
 Based on the complaint of Surender’s wife Reshma, an FIR has been registered against four accused — Bala Devi (the woman); Satpal, a former sarpanch of Johndi village in Jhajjar district;  , a resident of Sukhrali village in Gurgaon; and Sanjay — under sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of IPC, and sections 25-54-59 of Arms Act at Civil Lines police station.
 
 According to the victim’s wife, Bala Devi had borrowed money from Surender to build her house. Sources said an FIR had been filed earlier also against Devi and two others after they allegedly entered Surender’s house in August last year and threatened to kill him and his wife if he demanded his money back. “All the three accused in last year’s case were arrested and are now out on bail,” the DCP (crime) said.
 
 Surender had recently started working for JK News 24/7. His appointment letter and a press card have been recovered from his SUV, along with the licence of his revolver. “The murder was the result of monetary dispute. The four accused have been identified and our teams will nab them,” police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar said. 
 
 (With inputs from Sanjay Yadav)
 
 
