JAIPUR:  , who had signed   (MoUs) during the  , are disappointed with the   ( ) due to delay in land conversion and other related work. 

 In the summit, around 77 private investors signed MoUs with the state government. During a camp organised at Citizen Care Centre (CCC) for investors, it was revealed that work of only 33 MoUs is in progress, while remaining MoUs are stalled due to various reasons. 
 
 A team of district administration, tourisms, health and revenue department officials made efforts to resolve the problems related to 35 MoUs on Tuesday. However, the private investors returned disappointed. 
 
 The Jaipur Development Commissioner (JDC), Vaibhav Galriya directed the officials to resolve the problems after listening to the private investors. An offical source said, “Investment of Rs 1,300 crore is stalled due to the delay. If these MoUs are converted on time, it would generate the revenue for 11,000 employees. 
 
 It was informed that majority of projects are stalled as recently the high court banned the land conversion in the ecological zone. The court had directed to maintain the sanctity of master development plans (MDPs) of cities and demanded development projects to conform to the land uses specified by the plan.
 
 Official said, majority of projects are related to hotels and resorts. The investors have signed MoUs to develop a hotel and resorts, however, they are still waiting for land conversion approval and no objection certificate (NOC) from various agencies. 
 
 For instance, case of Nangan Ram Meena, who applied for land conversion in Sanganear , Tehsil to develop a hotel is pending after the Jodhpur High Court order. The matter was discussed in the executive committee meeting happened on January12. Now, after filing a review petition at court the executive committee will reconsider the case. 
 
 Sources in the department said that many cases are also pending due to lackadaisical approach of officials. Kamal Singh Baid, who has proposed to develop a resort in Motu Ka Bas, has applied for revenue documents in Amer Tehisl. However, documents are not provided to him till date. Directions were given to provide the related documents so that work can be expedited. 
 
 
