NAGPUR: In the 18 months since the launch of Universal Assistance to TB Care ( ), allowing even patients in private hospital access to free   (TB) medicines from registered chemists, 659 patients from   across Nagpur district have been benefited. Earlier, only patients registered with government-run health care centres could access free TB medicines.

 District TB officer Dr   said, “Some 50% of the   get treatment from government hospitals, while rest go to private hospitals. This project has been very beneficial for private hospital patients, who had to pay for expensive TB drugs.”
 
 Till now 18 private hospitals have registered with the government, apart from 225 private practitioners and chemists. Total 659 TB patients have benefited from the scheme since September 14, 2015, when the program was launched.
 
 Private doctors treating TB patients only need to register the patient’s name with the call centre operator, who will generate a voucher number, which will also be mentioned on the prescription note and sent to the patient through SMS. By showing the voucher number, the patient can collect free anti-TB drugs from designated chemist shops.
 
 On World TB Day, which falls on March 24, the centre has chosen to focus on Kuhi tehsil this year. On the day, a rally by over 500 school students will be organized at 9am. Banners and anti-TB slogans will be put up across the tehsil. After the rally, children will be sensitized about the disease.
 
 Dr Bagde said, “They will be told about their responsibility, about picking up TB symptoms, and sending people to our diagnostic centre established in every tehsil. There are two TB supervisors appointed at all 13 tehsils to undertake awareness activities and try to detect more and more patients.”
 
 He said, “A ceremony will be organized to reward the supervisor doing exceptional work. From March 24 till 30, these supervisors will be organizing community meetings to spread awareness about TB and, in that process, try to detect patients and connect positive patients with the centre.”
 
 An approximate 1.2 lakh new TB cases are detected in Maharashtra every year. The number of multi-drug resistant (MDR) cases is about 7,000 and those of extremely drug resistant tuberculosis (XDR-TB) cases is around 200.
 
 According to the data provided by the district TB centre, in 2016 total 17,965 samples were collected of which 1,392 turned out to be positive TB cases.
 
