KOLKATA: Maruti   sold 1.52 lakh cars last month to carve out a 50.87% marketshare in passenger vehicles, (PV) the first time it has done so since competition arrived on Indian shores two decades ago. During the month, it also sold 11,000 cars in the international market, making for a combined sales of 1.63 lakh units. Another 4,000 units and the company would have achieved the average monthly sales target for 2020 when   plans to sell two million cars.
 
  Though Maruti Suzuki has remained the dominant player, its marketshare had declined to touch 38.27% in 2011-12 when it sold 10.06 lakh cars before it began a steady climb by revising its portfolio and giving a major thrust to after sales service. “We are confident of carrying forward the growth that we have recorded in the first five months of the year to finish with 50% marketshare in passenger vehicles,” Maruti Suzuki senior ED (marketing & sales) R S Kalsi said at the inauguration of the first Maruti   in Kolkata and the east.
  
  Two years ago, the company had committed to roll out 15 cars, both brand new and model changes to meet the 2020 goal. Seven more are due in the next three years, including a seven-seater SUV, an SUV-styled hatch like Renault Kwid and new editions of Swift and Wagon R.
  
  After the success of Nexa that retails its premium range including the S Cross, Baleno and Ciaz, the company is revamping the conventional Maruti showrooms that are being renamed Maruti Suzuki Arena.
  
  “Following a study, we realised our customers had changed. Three out of four customers who walked in had already done the basic research on the net. We needed to stay relevant to them and therefore the upgrade. In these showrooms, relationship managers equipped with tablets will know where the customer left his research on the net and take it forward,” he said.
  
  Over the next three years, Maruti Suzuki dealers will invest around Rs 800 crore up upgrade the 700 showrooms in cities, 650 in smaller towns and 650 rural outlets. The firm is also revving up its production with a two 2.5-lakh-per-annum-capacity plants in Gujarat, taking the total capacity to 2.25 million.
 
  It currently produces 1.5 million cars in Gurgaon and Manesar and 2.5 lakh cars in the first plant in Gujarat. “We have committed to add another 2.5 lakh capacity in the Gujarat plant to take it to 7.5 lakh and the company’s overall capacity to 2.25 million,” Kalsi added.
