CHENNAI: In the last fortnight, when the murders of two children -one of whom was also raped - came to light, it shocked the city; made heroes of policemen who 'cracked' the cases, and left families grieving. But a quiet reigned over statutory bodies tasked with protecting children.

 TOI tracked the silence of one such body --- Tamil Nadu State Commission for   (TNSCPCR), set up to monitor implementation of laws related to children. 
 
 The body remains headless after the Madras high court called out the state government's routine practice of filling the chairperson's seat with a ruling party loyalist. The six-member commission has cited the vacancy as reason for not taking action.
 
  "We need the chairperson's signature before we can issue notices," said a member, a claim dismissed by National Commission for Protection of   (NCPCR). 
 
 "The members can take cognisance and issue notices to the government even if they have no chairperson," said Stuti Narain Kacker, NCPCR chairperson. She said against the backdrop of the murders, TNSCPCR can question the government on steps taken to ensure the safety of children.
 
 It is not just TNSCPCR that needs help. The   (CWC) has been headless for more than two years with only three of its five seats filled, while the   is running with most members working beyond their extension. The district-level bodies rehabilitating vulnerable minors are plagued by low attendance and political interference. Although the government said the selection process for a CWC head and new members had been completed a year ago, a list of selected candidates is awaited. Activists say the delay has compromised the safety of children.
 
  Activities of the district child protection units, which hold awareness campaigns, have also been mute. "Many have been appointed on ad hoc basis for six months. They may not have been able to prevent the murders, but they can deter such crimes with intensive drives," said Vidyasagar Ramamurthy, ex-child protection specialist, UNICEF office for Tamil Nadu and Kerala.
 
 Following a Madras high court directive, the state government invited applications for the TNSCPCR head. The court also pointed that rules hadn't been framed under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act. "The district level child welfare committees and juvenile justice boards are not functioning...this needs some urgent attention," the directive said, seeking the government's explanation by March 10.
 
 On January 1, officials of the department of social welfare and nutritious meals programme met advocacy group ChangeIndia, which filed two petitions in the court that pushed the department into action. "Besides filling vacancies, we sought the setting up of three CWCs to reduce pendency. They agreed in principle," said A Narayan, director ChangeIndia.
 
 K Manivasan, principal secretary, department of social welfare and nutritious meal programme, said the government was framing new rules. "We have formed a committee. The rules will be framed in a month and everything else will be set in motion," he said. Stakeholders, however, have taken this assurance with a pinch of salt. They have waited for too long, sometimes at the cost of young lives.
 
 
