CHENNAI:   are ubiquitous on   for not only ferrying people to different points but also in meeting the massive demand for everything from food deliveries to even ambulance services. But a state government policy that is being formulated looks to change the scenario for thousands of commercially operated bikes which add muscle power to many companies.

 While this may change the numbers game for logistics-based services, chain outlets will go unaffected say industry insiders. “Hotels and fast food chains who own their own private vehicle fleet won’t be greatly affected by it. The only change may be the procurement of different types of licences,” says a senior executive of a popular food start-up, who did not wish to be named. 
 
 But this may not be the case for many delivery services that are hiring based on an aggregator model - in short, employees who come with their own modes of transport. “Right now, delivery companies for these companies use their personal bikes during shifts. But such a policy that defines ‘commercial two-wheelers’ could mean that companies have to procure their own vehicles, which would cause a big financial setback,” they said. Currently several players like Swiggy, Delhivery, Shadowfax etc use the aggregator model to carry out delivery requests placed by customers. 
 
 “So far, we have not registered even a single ‘commercial bike. But once a policy is brought into effect, these will be classified as ‘yellow board’ bikes which will be operated strictly for commercial purposes,” explains a road traffic officer (RTO). At present, although they’re operated in massive numbers, delivery bikes do not have a binding guideline that classifies them as vehicles in business, like taxis or autos for instance. 
 
 For years now, companies have been operating in the grey area of no-regulation. But the state transport authority, which confirms that it has not given approval for these commercially used bikes, is looking to “get them streamlined through this policy which will be submitted to the state government for consideration” in the coming weeks. 
 
 “The committee that is framing guidelines for bike taxis is also looking into the matter,” a senior transport department official told TOI. Once ‘bike taxis’, popular in places like Pondicherry and Goa, are defined by the department’s guidelines, it could be introduced by facilitating private players.
 
 
