BENGALURU: The city registered an alarming 16,149 cases of vehicle theft between 2014 and 2016, which comes up to around 5,400 cases annually and about 14.7 vehicles per day. Data from   revealed that 80% of the  .

 Although a large number of cases pertaining to theft of three-wheelers and cars have been reported, few heavy duty vehicles, and goods automobiles were reported stolen. However, what is worrying is that a mere 4,163 stolen automobiles ­ 17% have been recovered. Police cited lack of insurance for vehicles as one of the key reasons for the dismal recovery ratio.
 
 A senior police officer also pointed out that the thieves had a clean modus operandi.“They waste no time in transporting vehicles to the neighbouring states after stealing the vehicle,“ said SK Umesh, deputy superintendent of police, Bengaluru Rural. He added, “Once the vehicle crosses over to another state, the vehicle's appearance is altered by a gang that is adept at changing the engine and chassis. The vehicle is painted, and a new licence plate attached to it.“
 
 Once the automobile has been given a new look, and the licence plate has been changed, fake documents, which generally bear a local registration number, are prepared. “In many cases, old worn-out documents are used to forge certificates for the stolen vehicles,“ Umesh said.
 
 Police said that vehicle thefts were reported from across the city . “These mis creants conduct a recce of the area, and choose the most convenient location where they can steal the vehicles. They subsequently return to the area with companions, and carry out the theft. They mostly operate late in the night,“ cops said.
 
 The additional security features that cars are equipped with makes them slightly hard to steal, police said. “Most cars sold these days have central locking sys tem and an alarm. However, some thieves have found a way around these features as well. The most common method they employ is to make duplicate keys,“ said a senior police officer.
 
 However, stealing twowheelers is relatively simpler.“Miscreants break the handle lock, and readjust the ignition wires. They push the vehicle for some distance, before speeding away ,“ he added.
 
 TRUCKS TO FERRY COCONUTS USED FOR TRANSPORTING STOLEN VEHICLES
 
 Recalling a case he cracked in 2009 when he was an inspector in JP Nagar, DSP Umesh said: “Thieves used big vehicles that were bound for other states to transport stolen cars and bikes. Trucks used for transporting coconuts, and other perishable commodities, would leave the city at night with stolen vehicles.“
 
 He said the southern and western parts of the city witnessed a sudden spike in the number of two-wheeler thefts between 2004 and 2007.Bikes parked on the side of the road at Basavanagudi, Gandhi Bazar, Kalasipalya, JC Road, etc, were stolen at night.There were instances when two or three vehicles were reported stolen on the same road in one night.“We realized a new gang was operating in these areas. A plainclothes policeman was posted to keep vigil one night near the City railway station.Around 2am, a mini goods truck passed by, and returned a few minutes later. Three youngsters jumped out of the vehicle, and rushed towards the parking lot. Cops managed to apprehend the thieves redhanded,“ Umesh added.
 
