NAGPUR: The last day of filing nominations for the civic elections turned into a show of strength for the candidates and political parties.

 As the major political parties preferred to keep their final list under wraps till the last moment, the day saw a huge rush at the 12 zone offices for filing papers. Though the nomination process commenced on January 29, the filing of papers did not gather momentum till the last stage. In fact, only one candidate, an independent, had filed papers on the first day. 
 
 Some BJP women workers gheroed   and guardian minister   for denying ticket to   who had demanded ticket either from Prabhag 32 or Prabhag 31.
 
 Candidates and their supporters who came to the zone offices to file nomination papers on the last day celebrated as if they have already won the election. At zonal offices like Lakadganj, there was a lot of drum beating and bursting of fire crackers. Interestingly, former standing committee chairman and sitting BJP corporator Narendra Borkar came with hundreds of his supporters to file his papers. 
 
 Instead of declaring their list publicly, the big parties called up the selected aspirants and asked them to file their nominations as official candidates. 
 
 An insider from a political party agreed with the ‘celebratory’ round before filing of papers. He claimed that the workers were told to remain present at the time of filing papers. “It is nothing, but a show of strength ahead of civic polls,” he said. Although only a limited number of workers were allowed inside the returning officer’s room, there was a huge crowd outside.
 
 Mayor  , ruling party leader (BJP)  , standing committee chairman Sudhir Raut and corporator Sanjay Balpande chose to come together at Gandhibagh zone. The four first assembled at Gandhi Gate in Mahal where they garlanded the statute of Shivaji Maharaj and later proceeded to Gandhibagh zone along with hundreds of their supporters.
 
 Leader of opposition in the   and city Congress president Vikas Thakre, who has filed nominations from Prabhag number 37 and 13, too visited the zonal offices with a large number of supporters. Senior Congress corporator Praful Gudadhe Patil, who had locked horns with Thakre over seat sharing, too arrived at Laxmi Nagar zone with thousands of supporters. 
 
 Ramdeo alias  , a handicapped businessman drew lot of attention while filing nomination from Prabhag 23 with A and B forms of Congress. 
 
 Many aspirants, however, failed to reach the returning offices in time. Many did not have complete documents. Pralok Marghare, who managed A and B forms from NCP, forget to bring Rs 5,000 as fees to be paid with the form.
 
 A few candidates who reported after 3pm were not allowed to file nominations. Only those who were given tokens before the deadline were allowed to submit papers. 
 
 However, the actual number of contestants in the fray will be revealed only when the scrutiny and withdrawal of nominations end on February 6 and February 7 respectively.
 
 
