A housing society in Andheri may just have escaped from a major legal tangle as the   has decided to only penalise them, and not file a criminal case, despite the society   since the past 25 years. And the fine is relatively petty given the magnitude of the crime – Rs 6.25 lakh.

 The BMC’s K (West) ward waterworks department is in the process of recovering Rs 6.25 lakh from Metro Unity Co-operative Housing Society on SV Road in Andheri West, which the society will have to cough up as “misuse charges”.
 
 The BMC had disconnected the building’s water connection in 2015 after the theft had come to light, but failed to levypenalty or file a case . After a few shop owners filed a complaint with the Lokayukt in April 2107, the BMC was asked to reinvestigate.
 
 “The earlier officer should have lodged an FIR. But as per new Water Charges Rules, 2015, we will charge them for 25 years of misuse. In the past, we only disconnected the water supply ,” said R Pisal, assistant engineer, from the BMC’s water works department in K (west) ward.
 
 While the building does not possess an occupation certificate, the BMC is computing the penalty from the date of physical occupation of the society members in 1990 upto May 2015. “The modus operandi was same as that in slums. A 15-mm size of BMC pipeline was punctured and water was diverted into the society. We have charged them double the rate at Rs10.50/1,000 litres including sewerage tax from July 1, 1990 to April 28, 2015,” said a civic officia.
 
 A demand notice will be sent to the society to cough up the amount and the BMC will inform the assessment department if the society fails to pay the amount.
 
 Azeem Multani, chief complainant said, “Despite 25 years of theft only Rs 6.25 lakh is being fined. This amount is low and will not serve as a deterrent to prevent water thefts by housing societies.”
 
 Zakir Shaikh, secretary, Metro Unity, CHS, denied the theft. “No, we have not been stealing water since 1990. The building was under the builder including the water supply issue till 2013.”
 
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 Stealing, misusing and wasting of water is a serious crime
 
 The laws BMC has on its side:
 
 Act 278(1) gives civic officials power to serve notice against those who misuse and waste water.
 
 Act 278(2) allows BMC to disconnect a water connection for leakages and notice ignored under section 278 of the Act
 
 Act 282 allows   to recover charges with penalty from those who use residential connections for commercial purposes
 
 Additionally under Section 435, 379, 425 of the Indian Penal Code BMC can register a criminal case with the police against people involved in the act of stealing water, and also levy a fine of upto Rs 5000.
 
 As per the rule, the guilty can even be sent to jail.
 
 
