BENGALURU: The   fight may look as one between the founders and the management/board. It’s actually a fight between the old guard at Infosys and the new. Several key members of the management team and other senior executives, who worked with the founders for many years, think of issues in much the same way that the founders do. The divide is evident across different levels of the company, making it much more difficult for CEO   to rally his troops towards common goals.

 Phil Fersht, CEO of IT consulting firm  , says Sikka has moved fast to evolve the company culture by bringing in some of his own management from software firms, who have a different mindset from the old guard, who live in a world where it’s still all about delivering people-based services as opposed to platform-based services.
 
 “But the crunch time is now. They need to set aside their egos and make this work. Having this type of cultural debate now is not a bad thing and I know most of the leading providers are going through something similar as they are forced to make this shift,” he said.
 
 There is angst about the massive salary increases granted to the four who were elevated as presidents — Mohit Joshi, Sandeep Dadlani, Rajesh K Murthy and Ravikumar S — and to some select others. Sikka presumably rewarded those who he thought shared his vision and could deliver on it.
 
 While the old guard remained conservative about acquisitions and compensation, the new stewards were tasked with making bold moves to take Infosys on to a different plane. Peter Bendor-Samuel, CEO of IT outsourcing consulting firm  , says whatever the philosophical beliefs of the Infosys founders, it is clear that they are struggling to come to terms with the hard reality that if Infosys is to continue to retain its leading role in the services industry, it has to become a truly global firm, attracting global talent and adopting global compensation and management practices.
 
 He says the arbitrage-based Indian service industry and Infosys, in particular, face the unpleasant reality that the business that has yielded such robust margins for so long is maturing and that these margins will not be sustained into the future. “It is therefore unsurprising that founders who built their companies on a culture of frugality and expectation of high margins, resist increasing overhead cost at a time that margins are coming under pressure,” says Bendor-Samuel.
 
 Amit Tandon, managing director of   (Ii-AS), says the issue is of different operating styles rather than personalities. “Murthy is an entrepreneur who grew up in the 1960s and set up a business where he accounted for every penny, while Sikka is a professional, who worked in   and who believes you need to spend money to attract talent and recalibrate the business,” he says.
 
 There are those who say Sikka should have cleaned out the old guard when he took over in August 2014. That’s a strategy some CEOs adopt when they have a transformation agenda. But the founders might have resisted it then.
 
 “It will be interesting to see how Sikka deals with the issue after the latest flash point,” one analyst said on condition of anonymity.
 
