The cheers changed to heartbreak in the 45th over of the second innings as   was castled for a duck by a superb delivery in the very first ball she faced. Unfortunately for the millions of cricket fans hoping for a '1983 moment' in women's cricket, the second moment paved the tone of the rest of the evening. 

 At Lalpur village in Chakdah, 68km from Kolkata, the excitement was at its peak at Jhulan's home, where the entire village was at their doorstep as the cricketers' parents struggled to accommodate everyone in their small two-bedroom home. “Everyone wants to be with us in my daughter's big moment. I feel so proud of her,“ said mother Jharna, 62. While everyone, from Jhulan's sister and friends, to children from the neighbourhood, crowded into one of the two rooms in the house and sat glued to the television set, her father Nishith locked himself inside the other room.
 
 “He considers himself unlucky for his daughter,“ said Jhulan's mother Jharna. “He had taken a day off and didn't miss a ball during India's last World Cup final in 2005. But this time, he stopped watching the matches live from the knockout stages of the tournament. No matter how much we tell him, he won't listen.“
 
 Sitting beside her was Jhulan's sister Jhumpa.
 
 “Didi called me last night and said she would give her 200% for today's match. She told me that the team was extremely confident,“ said Jhumpa, an ICDS facilitator in the village, wearing her lucky blue T-shirt that Jhulan had given her.
 
 The ace cricketer's brother, Kunal, remembered how she used to play cricket with boys in the locality as no other woman would play with her. “She used to conceal her kit at a neighbour's house to avoid being rebuked by our mother, who was initially not too keen on her playing the game.“
 
 Since Sunday afternoon, neighbours started trickling into the Goswami house, which was flooded till the morning because of the rain. It got so crowded that the family could not even cook lunch and a neighbour had to bring food. The local Friends Club installed a giant screen with a poster of Jhulan under it at  , a few metres from her home. “Jhulandi is an inspiration for us. She has made our village famous across the world. I want to be like her too,“ said 13-year-old Rumpa Das, who was at the front row before the giant screen cheering at every dot ball her idol bowled.
 
