NEW DELHI: Much to the delight of birders, hundreds of black-crowned night herons have made their way to Yamuna Biodiversity Park for nesting. The biodiversity park in north Delhi is said to be the largest breeding ground for the species in the city and experts feel their numbers will only go up this year.

 YBP officials said the birds had arrived a month earlier than usual: the first sightings were reported as   as February this year. Experts said change in climatic conditions could be responsible for that, with over 1,000 black-crowned night herons having already made the park their temporary home.
 
 “The birds usually arrive by March and stay here till September, but this time they came almost 15 days early. By now, several eggs have already been laid and a lot of them have hatched. Last year, over 3,000 black-crowned night herons were seen here and we expect even higher numbers this time,” said Faiyaz Khudsar, scientist in-charge, YBP.
 
 Ornithologists say the species had almost vanished from Delhi close to 15 years ago, with several breeding grounds like Rajghat destroyed. In an effort to bring them back, park officials grew a tamarix-phragmites forest, spread over 1.8km, inside YBP.
 
 “It is one of the largest breeding sites in Delhi. Bharatpur attracts a number of these birds as well. Black-crowned night herons were known to breed at Rajghat and even the Delhi Zoo earlier, but those sightings went down considerably and only a few places in Delhi now see them nest in good numbers,” said Ranjit Lal, a birder.
 
 According to experts, the species only nest in places where a tamarix-phragmites forest is present, making the biodiversity park a suitable breeding ground for them.
 
 “There is an abundance of food and enough space for the birds to nest and breed. The forest stretches over 1.8kms along the river, which provides sufficient food in the form of fish and insects to them. Birds such as darters, grey heron, egrets and cormorants are also using this habitat to make their nests. This is a good sign for reviving the habitat around Yamuna,” Khudsar said. 
 
