 on  's affinity for slapstick, the supernatural love story he has signed on, and why the term 'smaller films' is offensive.

 You've described  's 'Nanu Ki Jaanu', which you just start ed shooting for, as a dark comedy. Given how selective you are, what got the nod from you?
 
  
  
 'Nanu Ki Jaanu' is a supernatural love story as well as a dark comedy. Dark comedy is rare in Bollywood because for too long we have been fed a formula of slapstick and stereotypes. I enjoy them because it's one of the toughest things to bring humour into a dramatic situation. I enjoy walking on the edge.
 
 Any favourites in the genre?
 
 There are many directors I admire who work primarily in this genre-Stanley Kubrick, Terry Gilliam, Coen Bros. and Tim Burton to name a few.
 
 You are working with Patralekhaa for the first time. Have you seen any of her earlier films, including 'Citylights' and 'Love Games'?
 
 I haven't seen either of them but I am looking forward to work with her.She has a great look and has received a lot of critical acclaim for her performances.We haven't shot together yet but I'm eagerly waiting for our first day together. We will be shooting the film in Noida and Delhi. It will be completed by the end of October.
 
 What's happening with Shailender Vyas' 'JL50' and Rohit Batra's 'The Field'?
 
 Both are in post-production at the moment. What's interesting about these two films is that while one is a Canadian production and the other American, they are both in Hindi. The Field is partly in English as it also has international actors. 'JL-50' is a sci-fi while 'The Field' is a drama but neither conform to the Bollywood formula. I guess that's because they have been made by outsiders from the Indian film industry.
 
 What was the experience of shooting 'The Field' like?
 
 Every film goes into your memory bank, some memories are good and some are bad. The Field is a good memory. It has an ensemble cast drawn from different parts of the world and some very talented actors. The director was inspired by Brian De Palma and that approach in our cinema has turned out to be unique.
 
 Will you be seen in the sequel to   Aziz's romcom Happy Bhaag Jayegi which opened last year? Producer Aanand L Rai has announced that he will be taking the franchise forward.
 
 Your guess is as good as mine! I've read reports of me doing a cameo in it but the makers have not told me anything yet. But it's Aanand Rai and Mudassar and for them I'd be happy to do it if they ask.
 
 Have you seen Aanand L Rai's recently released Ayushmann Khurrana, Bhoomi Pednekar starrer 'Shubh Mangal Savdhan', which focuses on the problem of erectile dysfunction? Would you be open to doing a sex comedy like that?
 
 I would do a sex comedy if I liked the script. Honestly, I'm happy doing all genres, my next four films are all from different genres. I'm having fun going from one set to another, from one approach to another. Variety is the spice of life.
 
 Any recent films you have watched and enjoyed?
 
 I haven't had the time to watch anything in the last six months. The last film I saw was 'The Lion' which I thoroughly enjoyed, particularly Dev Patel's work.
 
 What's been keeping you busy?
 
 My Tamil film 'IVSK' (Idhu Vedhalam Sollum Kadhai ) which I have produced and done a cameo in is in post-production. 'IVSK' is the second film I have produced after 'One By Two' and I have enjoyed the experience both times. I don't have any plans to direct yet but I'm busy reading scripts and getting distribution for non-formula films on the OTT platforms.
 
 This year, a number of small, off-beat films like 'Shubh Mangal Saavdhan', 'Bareilly Ki Barfi', 'Hindi Medium' and 'Badrinath Ki Dulhaniya' have fared well at the box-office. Must be heart-warming for you since you have always promoted smaller films?
 
 I don't promote 'smaller films'. The industry and the media label them 'small' because they define 'big' and 'small' according to the budget. Most of those films have been much bigger than most formula films in their ambition and ideas. This year has shown us 'big' films with a 'small' vision, and 'small' films that have been 'big' on vision.
 
  
  
  
  
 
