DEHRADUN: Days after Army chief General   said “women can be in combat arms if they do not expect additional facilities or any special privileges”, women officers have said they are ready for   since they undergo the same training as their male counterparts and they don't need “any special privileges”.
 
  Post 2009, they have to go through the same 11-month rigorous drill at Officers’   (OTA), Chennai, as do the men. Women officers TOI spoke to, both serving and retired, said they are not seeking any privilege or preferential treatment, "only an upgrade of infrastructure", especially at forward posts.
  
  “I underwent the same training as my male course mates at OTA, without any shortcuts except an extra minute given during runs. In fact, at times I have seen women doing better than men in some of the physical endurance tests. We are absolutely ready to become part of any combat arm like infantry or artillery, especially with the change in the training structure. The only requirement is the development of infrastructure, like separate washrooms. This is not an extra privilege but a basic necessity,” said a serving woman officer who was in the second batch of the 11-month training programme.
  
  Addressing his first annual conference in New Delhi on Friday last, General Rawat had said it’s up to women to decide if they are willing to join men on frontline combat roles without separate and additional facilities. He mentioned that when out on tanks, the men cook and sleep under the tank. Noting that women are present in combat arms of the army except on the frontlines, the Army chief had said there are no toilet facilities when out on patrol.
  
  Previously, women cadets at OTA were trained only for a period of six months and had a different training programme from that of the men. A serving lieutenant colonel in Corps of Electronics and Mechanical Engineers (EME) told TOI, “I underwent six months of training but the women who are joining the Army now are more than capable of being in the combat arms – both physically and mentally. We didn’t have to do certain training activities but now that has changed, which makes women at par with the men. Induction of women in combat arms should be done gradually.”
  
  Some of the retired women officers also felt it’s not a question of their physical capability, but of the environment in which they have to work. One of the veterans, Maj (retd) Sudhanshu Mishra, who retired from   after serving for eight years, said, “In the current scenario, the Army is not ready for women in combat arms for the simple reason that basic infrastructure is lacking. Also, before their induction in the fighting arms, a policy for their permanent commission (PC) should be made. This would help in evolving the present working conditions since at present we have no other option than to retire after 14 years.”
  
  Mishra added, “If the provision of PC is introduced for women officers, it would give us certain kind of clarity and we would be able to plan our lives accordingly – after which getting posted to remote locations or getting deployed at forward posts would not be a problem. Also, we would get leadership roles like in the   (AMC).”
  
  Internationally, only US, Canada and Australia have women in combat arms. UK is set to join this list soon and Israel is the only country which has mandatory military service for women.
  
  Lt Col (retd) V Gupta, who retired last year from EME, said, “On the ground, women officers work under the same conditions as those for the men. They also stay in tents in deserts or in the cold climates. Undoubtedly, there is motivation and physical capability, but apart from the issue of infrastructure, another cause of concern is acceptance from the troops. The Indian mentality of male dominance does come into play here.”
