AGRA/ DEHRADUN: Protesting students were trying to enter the V-C's house on Saturday night when they were caned. In retaliation, students reportedly hurled petrol bombs and resorted to brick-batting in which some cops were injured. The violence erupted hours after PM Modi left Varanasi after a two-day visit.

 
  
 As news of the police action spread, solidarity protests were held by students in DU, AMU and in Dehradun. More protests are planned in Delhi on Monday.
 
 Trouble started in BHU on the night of September 21 when students of a girls' hostel sat on protest following the alleged sexual harassment of a student of visual arts near Bharat Kala Bhawan. The girl said she was harassed by three boys on a motorcycle while returning to her hostel in Triveni complex.
 
 Students alleged that campus security guards who were standing just 100 metres from the spot didn't react. The victim said her warden, instead of taking up the issue, asked her why she was returning to her hostel late. The warden's response angered the fellow inmates, who sat on a 'dharna' after Thursday.
 
 With the campus under the shadow of over 1,500 security men on Sunday, frantic political activity took place outside with former student union leaders, academics and employees taking out an all-party march.
 
 UP Congress Committee chief Raj Babbar and former Congress MP PL Punia were arrested while trying to reach the campus. They were later released. Security forces staged a flag march late Sunday evening.
 
 Taking cognisance of the violence, CM Aditya Nath Yogi has sought a report from divisional commissioner Nitin Gokarn.
 
 The district administration also announced that other universities, including Mahatma Gandhi Kashi Vidyapeeth, Sampurnanand Sanskrit University and colleges affiliated to them, would remain closed till October 2.
 
 Three FIRs had been lodged by the BHU administration - first for the sexual harassment of the girl student, second for the violence on campus and the third for display of "provocative photographs" on a Facebook page 'BHU Buzz' that was used for live streaming of violence on Saturday night.
 
 BHU issued a statement saying the dharna by the students just a day before the PM's visit was 'politically motivated' to malign the image of the university.
 
 DM Yogeshwar Ram Mishra and SSP R K Bhardwaj said police had to resort to lathi-charge to bring the situation under control.
 
