Margao: South Goa SP Chandan Chowdhary on Thursday sought the cooperation of the public in solving the cases of vandalism of religious structures, even as she said that the   were working on some leads that could yield results.

 Chowdhary told reporters that police have roped in the cyber cell and the anti-terrorism squad in the investigation. “We have increased technical surveillance and the process of analysing technical data is underway,” Chowdhary said. 
 
 Chowdhary said picketing and patrolling schemes have also been put in place across South Goa. 
 
 As regards to the two additional cases of vandalism reported at the Curchorem police station on Thursday, the SP said that the incidents occurred between 4.30am and 5.15am on Wednesday. Roadside crosses, one at Morailem and the other at Xelvon, were found desecrated. Curchorem police have booked separate offences in both the cases under Section 295 (defiling place of worship) of the IPC.
 
 “The cops on patrolling duty had found the crosses in both locations in order until 4.30am. It was only between 5am and 5.15am that these crosses were found desecrated,” Chowdhary said.
 
 She has appealed to the public to inform the police about even the vaguest clue about who is behind the incidents. “If anybody finds somebody moving about in a suspicious manner, bring it to the notice of the police. The informers’ identity will be kept safe and confidential. If the information helps the police in cracking the case, the informer will be suitably rewarded,” he told reporters. 
 
 Stating that additional CCTV cameras will be installed at strategic places, Chowdhary, however, lamented that most of CCTV cameras installed under the MP Land Area Development Scheme were found to be non-functional. She said the police were now in the process of collecting data from privately owned cameras.
 
 Urging the public not to panic, Chowdhary said that instructions have been given to PCR vans to patrol their respective areas with their sirens on. “This will serve two purposes — it will deter culprits from attempting any acts of vandalism, and also curb house breaking thefts,” she said. 
 
 As regards the spate of house breaking thefts, Chowdhary said that two platoons of Indian Reserve Batallion (IRB) have been deployed at Margao and Maina Curtorim police stations to reinforce the police strength. Police pickets have been deployed at over 40 places in the jurisdictional areas of these two police stations, it was informed.
 
 Ironically, even as Chowdhary maintained that theft cases have come down in the last few days, thefts were reported at two kiosks located in front of the district headquarters of the South Goa police in Margao. 
 
 
