GURUGRAM: The mounting traffic congestion at   is likely to ease from next month as the   (NHAI) has decided to throw open to traffic the Delhi to Jaipur side of the   at the busy intersection on NH-8 by the end of March.

 “The construction of the Delhi to Jaipur side of the flyover is almost complete. We are planning to open it by March 31,” project director of NHAI, Ashok Sharma, told TOI on Wednesday.
 
 The 1.4-km-long flyover is being constructed as part of three-layer crossing — flyover, underpass and existing roads — at Hero Honda Chowk. Work on construction of the Jaipur to Delhi side of the flyover and the underpass is also on fast track.
 
 In fact, work on construction of the underpass and flyover picked up pace after waterlogging led to Gurujam at Hero Honda Chowk in July last year. Local authorities had faced all-round criticism at the time, following which, the district administration asked NHAI to speed up the work and complete at least on side of the flyover at the earliest.
 
 Officials said the   of the flyover would be used for diversion of traffic coming from Jaipur to Delhi. The four-lane Delhi-Jaipur side of the flyover was constructed using extra space, including service road as diversion road. But there are not enough space available for a diversion on the other side (Jaipur-Delhi), for constructing the remaining four lanes.
 
 “So we have decided to divert the traffic coming from Jaipur to Delhi on newly constructed flyover, when it will be open to traffic, and utilise the other side of the existing road to construct remaining four-lane (Jaipur-Delhi) side of the flyover,” said Sharma.
 
 He said 13 out of the 16 pillars for the Jaipur-Delhi side of the flyover have already been constructed. “We are trying to complete the remaining side of the flyover at the earliest,” he added.
 
 In order to decongest the Hero Honda Chowk, NHAI and the   government had approved a three-level crossing at Hero Honda Chowk — an eight-lane flyover on the expressway and a four-lane underpass on Old Gurgaon Road while the existing road to be exclusively used by vehicles coming from the Delhi side that want to turn into Old Gurgaon Road. There will also be slip lanes for U-turns and right turns.
 
 The construction of the Rs 139 crore project began in February 2015, with completion time of 30 months. But the project slowed down due to delay in clearance of the land required for the project. Litigation and lack of coordination between departments delayed the clearance of the land needed for the project.
 
 
