COIMBATORE: Refuting conspiracy theories,   of   on Friday said the gang that targeted the   was after money. "Since there was no money, they took away five wrist watches and a crystal show-piece, assuming them to be valuable," he told TOI after a review meeting conducted by Deepak M Damor, deputy inspector general (DIG) of police, Coimbatore range, at the Kotagiri police station. 

 "Television channels and newspapers have been spinning various stories about the  . Some of them link politics with the case. However, such claims are baseless. Kanagaraj from Chithirapalayam village near Samudram in Salem district, who was working as a car driver for former chief minister J Jayalalithaa for four years, was the mastermind," said Murali Rambha. "Kanagaraj brought together the gang with the help of his friend Sayan. Insiders are not involved in the incident. Kanagaraj knew all the layout of the estate and thought that a huge amount of cash might be kept there. So, he hatched the conspiracy with others," the police officer said. "After finding that there was no money at the bungalow, they stole five wrist watches and a crystal show-piece. They have not stolen any document from there. We have proof for everything," said the SP.
 
 Kanagaraj was killed in an accident on the night of April 28 at Attur in Salem after a car collided head on with his motorcycle. Next morning, his close associate Sayan also met with an accident and his wife Vinupriya and five-year-old daughter Neethu were killed on the spot. Sayan suffered serious injuries and was admitted at a private hospital in Coimbatore. "Sayan dozed off while driving and his car crashed into a parked container truck on Palakkad-Thrissur road. Following the accident, I immediately approached the Palakkad district superintendent of police and arranged for post-mortem of Sayan' wife and daughter. A four-member team of doctors' conducted the post-mortem. There was no foul play behind the deaths of Sayan's wife and daughter. We have collected enough evidences in connection with the accident," he said.
 
 
