BENGALURU: While most lakes in Bengaluru have dried up or are choking with toxic waste,   in   stands apart. The   (PNLIT) has been working to clean it up and the   touching down on the wetlands is proof of their success. 

 Birdlovers have spotted a purple and grey heron, a little egret, two spot-billed ducks, a bronze-winged jacana and a night heron.
 
 "We have spotted 102 bird species since 2010. The bronze-winged jacana has now become a resident of the lake. A lot of these birds nest in the swamplands around the lake, prompting us not to clear those regions," said Madhurima Das, a resident of L&T South City.
 
 The residents restored the   area in June 2016 by cultivating aquatic plants on floating platforms. The platforms are made of PVC pipes and the plants are grown within two nets, helping purify the water. L&T South City is providing treated water to the wetland area, which then goes through bio-filtration before flowing into the main lake.
 
 Residents and corporate volunteers have helped build these floating islands. There are about half a dozen floating platforms and the goal is to make 120 of them. They're also in the process of reinforcing the fence surrounding the lake to prevent dogs from entering and disrupting the habitat.
 
 The task of cleaning up the lake began in 2010. PNLIT and residents have been maintaining the lake with donations raised locally. "Members of PNLIT have done a really good job in maintaining the lake. We make sure that no one throws waste, but we are still facing difficulty when it comes to people from some nearby localities. They have cut the fence to gain access to the lake and throw garbage. Though we've asked them to help us maintain the lake, they have refused to cooperate with us," Nagendra A, another neighbourhood resident, said.
 
 PNLIT chairperson Usha Rajagopalan said they are unable to secure the area at night. Twenty benches around the lake have either been broken, and heaps of leaves have been set afire. "People should realize that it's easy to kill lakes but to revive them, that takes years," she added.
 
 PNLIT holds various events at the lake, most of them targeted at children, to spread awareness about the water body. They have collaborated with BMS Engineering College and Snehadhara Foundation.
 
  -- By Nishal Uthappa and Nina Karun 
 
 
