New Delhi: The   on Tuesday directed   (DU) to inform students seeking admissions to undergraduate courses that their “merit position could change” depending on the marks obtained by some students who had applied for   of Class XII answer sheets.

 A division bench of acting Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice C Hari Shankar made it clear that the admissions would be subject to the outcome of the petition filed by four students for re-evaluation, which is pending before it.
 
 The bench said, “As a matter of abundant caution, the students who are seeking admission as well as the colleges need to be kept informed about the pendency of the writ petition and the fact that the process of re-evaluation of marks by Central Board of Secondary Education on the request of some of the students is underway.” As a result , it explained, “merit position of the students could change substantially”.
 
 It is DU’s responsibility to keep the public as well as the colleges informed and “put the students seeking admission to notice about the order passed today”, the court said while asking the university to file within a day a status report.
 
 The high court issued the directive after the students produced a 2014 order by a different bench observing “no candidate will be able to use re-evaluation if he/she is denied admission despite improvement in his marks”. 
 
 The petitioners, through senior advocate Sanjay Poddar, also cited a 2010 judgment in which   had recorded DU’s statement that admissions could be given till the last cutoff   was announced.
 
 “The applicability of the directions passed in the previous judgments require to be examined. The above directions would bind the consideration by this court as well,” the bench said.
 
 The students have moved HC against CBSE’s June 28 notice imposing conditions that the scrutiny would be limited to 12 subjects and up to 10 questions per subject. HC has already asked CBSE to re-evaluate the answer sheets of all subjects of all students who wrote the Boards this year and have sought re-evaluation. 
 
 The case will be heard again on July 26.
 
