MUMBAI: The number of patients suffering from drugresistant tuberculosis in the city increased by 21% between 2015-16, shows the latest data from the BMC's public health department. BMC officials, however, say the increase is a mere reflection of better diagnostic facilities available in the city over the last few years.

 There were 3,608 patients in the city with   (MDR) TB in 2015, but the number stood at 4,374 patients a year later.
 
 Five years back, TB reemerged as one of the biggest public health challenges in India when Hinduja Hospital's Dr Zarir Udwadia found that some of his patients had totally drug resistant TB. Mumbai then become the site of a special central government project, with patients getting better access to medicines and diagnostics.
 
 The BMC's latest figures showed that the burden of tuberculosis hasn't slackened in the five years. But, on the bright side, BMC officials said the number of deaths due to TB seem to be dropping.
 
 The city's TB officer, Dr Daksha Shah, told TOI that the increase in numbers is a reflection of improved diagnostic facilities in the city .The number of GeneXpert machines, which can diagnose MDR-TB in two hours, increased from eight to 19 in the last year.
 
 The number of ordinary TB­or drug-sensitive TB­too registered an increase of 9%. "While there were 38,667 cases of regular TB in 2015, the number has climbed to 42,115 in 2016," said the BMC data released on the eve of   on Friday .
 
 The number of extremely drug resistant (XDR) cases remained stagnant at 556 in 2016. However, the number of XDR-TB cases had increased sharply by over 60% between 2014 and 2015.
 
 Dr Yatin Dholakia of the Maharashtra State Anti TB Association said detection and treatment of TB patients had certainly increased in the city. "BMC's tie-up with private sector doctors has ensured that more patients are getting free treatment," he said.
 
 The biggest concern for private doctors, however, is the fact that many new primary cases are MDR-TB."Primary infection is the first infection. Previously patients would come with regular TB which due to poor adherence to medicines would turn into MDR-TB," said the doctor. "But now we get first-time patients with MDR-TB. This is bad," said Dr Dholakia.
 
