PUNE: As polling day draws near, promises are being thrown to voters by the dozens with better transport, 100% garbage treatment, better hygiene and a clean river topping the table.

 Such assurances were given by leaders at a panel discussion organised by   (PIC) ahead of the civic polls. Leaders said they have comprehensive plans for the city’s overall development but sought active help from citizens to implement the programmes. The discussion was chaired by noted economist Vijay Kelkar, vice president of PIC.
 
 The Nationalist Congress Party's (NCP) city unit president Vandana Chavan assured steps for the city's sustainable development. She said mere smartness will not be enough as the city requires better planning to deal with challenges posed by urbanization. The NCP was ready with plans to handle the issues the city will face in the next few years, she said.
 
  (BJP) city unit president Yogesh Gogawale said his party will ensure maximum benefits to the city under the Union and state governments’ schemes. After coming to power, the party will execute Pune Metro rail project on priority. The party has also planned development of amenity spaces and provision of houses to the slum population.
 
 Shiv Sena leader Shyam Deshpande put forth the idea to establish rules and regulations under the Pune city development code for faster permissions and implementation of projects. He said his party will provide better public transport to citizens with the purchase of 1,000 buses for Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Ltd (PMPML) and commercial use of PMPML land to increase revenue for the transport utility. 
 
 The party has also suggested to establish a special purpose vehicle (SPV) for implementation of slum rehabilitation projects.
 
  (MNS) leader Hemant Sambhus said the party has prepared a comprehensive plan to upgrade public transport. Leaders urged for public participation in implementation of projects for the city.
 
 Congress leader Abhay Chhajed pointed out that his party has said in the manifesto that it will implement 24X7 water supply project and set up garbage processing units across the city within a few months. Chhajed claimed that the delay in the implementation of the metro project has led to escalation of costs.
 
