KOLHAPUR: The number of students being caught for cheating during  , Kolhapur's ( ) semester examinations has witnessed a considerable rise in the last few years. 

 A report from the varsity stated that in the March 2016 semester exam, as many as 1,500 cases of unfair means (malpractices) were registered, while in the October 2016 semester exam around 680 cases of cheating were registered. The number is quite huge as compared previous year's data.
 
 The semester examinations have begun in Sangli, Satara and Kolhapur districts from March 24 and more than 2.5 lakh students are taking the test that will end in the last week of May.
 
 "There are basic rules that are generally conveyed to the students. However, taking these instructions lightly and making common mistakes may invite action leading to fine and annulment of the performance," Mahesh Kakade, director, board of examination and evaluation, SUK, said.
 
 He added that getting caught in the examination ruins a student's career. "We come across such cases every year. Hence, the department has ensured we once again instruct students to avoid indulging in such activities. We do conduct workshops for the teachers and students wherein the impacts of the copying cases are told," he said.
 
 He added, "Simply writing something related to the exam on palm, body, or even clothes can invite action, resulting in wastage of an academic year."
 
 According to Kakade, not only students but teachers, moderators, paper setters, examiners, as well are fined under the malpractices such as getting involved in the leakage, favouring a student and setting questions outside the syllabus.
 
 "A teacher can be fined or debarred from the examination work if found guilty. The examination department have taken action in the past and continues to keep a strict eye on the process," he added.
 
 Kakade said students should invest their time in studying than finding creative ways of copying. "As advanced security measures, the university has installed CCTV cameras in sensitive examination centre across the division. We also send a circular every semester before the start of the exam, the things that should be taken in consideration by the students as well as invigilators. A committee has been formed at the varsity's exam department to answer the queries by the parents or the students," he said.
 
