PUNE: A magisterial court here on Wednesday remanded a 27-year-old man in police custody till January 23 in a case of alleged   of a married woman.

 A police officer associated with the probe told TOI, “The suspect, who hails from Bavdhan Khurd off Paud Road, has a history of affairs with women. He has had two marriages, a divorce and been facing an ongoing trial in a case of harassment and domestic violence registered in 2015 by his second wife.”
 
 The officer said, “The suspect first got into an extra-marital affair with a girl, telling her that he was divorced, and started living with her in a rented house at Yerawada. When the girl learnt that the man was not divorced, she left him. The suspect then secured a divorce from his first wife following which the girl’s parents solemnised their marriage and they started living together again.”
 
 The officer said, “During the subsistence of his second marriage, the suspect entered into an affair with the complainant who resides in the Kalyani Nagar area. Incidentally, the complainant had recorded her statement as a witness with the   in a case of harassment registered against the suspect by his second wife.”
 
 In an FIR lodged on Tuesday, the complainant told police that she met the suspect through a common friend. Thereafter, he started meeting her and even gained her sympathy when the complainant’s marriage was going through a rough patch, police said.
 
 The complainant alleged that the suspect first molested her in the early hours of January 22, 2016, near a hotel in Koregaon Park where they had gone with a common friend. She further alleged that it was on her birthday on March 20, 2016, that the suspect took her to his rented home in Yerawada for cutting a birthday cake at the stroke of midnight. She alleged the suspect gave her a sedative, assaulted and raped her.
 
 She further alleged that the suspect later told her that he had taken her photographs on his cell phone and would reveal the same to her husband. He started   her and raped her on three or four occasions after forcing her to visit him, the complainant alleged.
 
 The Yerawada police arrested the suspect in the early hours of Wednesday for offences punishable under Sections 376 (2) (n), which refers to repeated rape on same woman, 354 (outraging modesty), 328 and 323 (causing hurt), 342 (wrongful confinement) and 506 (criminal intimidation).
 
 Later in the day, investigating officer and assistant police inspector Seema S. Dhakane produced the suspect before a magistrate and sought his custodial remand for seven days. Assistant public prosecutor Waman Koli said that the police needed the suspect’s custody to establish the source of sedatives, retrieve the photographs from his cell phone, to investigate his other affairs and conduct a potency test on him. Koli submitted that the suspect has been booked for a serious crime against woman.
 
 Police said the suspect’s mother is a gynaecologist while his father passed away a year ago. He runs a showroom of used cars from his home at Bavdhan Khurd. His second wife continues to reside with his mother in the same home. Recently, the suspect had uploaded a message on his social media page inviting applications from young women for a short film he wanted to produce, police said.
 
