PANAJI: Although the warning signs of climate change and rising sea levels are already being seen and felt, activists claim the   (RP) 2021 is far from proactive when it comes to measures to tackle these phenomena. 

 Goa, like other coastal states, will be vulnerable to the impact of sea level rise and other future events in the sensitive Indonesian region. The state’s coast was affected by cyclonic storms in Arabian sea in the past, with cyclone Phyan in November 2009 being one of them.
 
 The rapid urbanization and decrease in green cover due to construction and other activities are worrying environmentalists and others. “More tall buildings, increasing concretization and paving of open spaces, felling of trees and other factors will affect the state,” Goa Bachao Abhiyan (GBA) convener,  , says.
 
 Scientists from the   (NIO) have noticed impacts of a sudden surge of sea levels at high tidethough some were localized phenomenonin the recent past. “Rising sea levels affect areas near the sea and rivers the most. The government should carry out studies to assess this threat,”  , a member of the NGO Federation of Rainbow Warriors (FoRW), says.
 
 While providing inputs for a suitable RP to counter the destructive impacts of climate change, activists have called for preventive measures, too. “As per Regional Plan 2001, areas with natural cover may be retained and entities such as industries may be set up within or near the area, like in the no development zone (NDZ) slopes in land bearing survey number 251 at Poinguinim,”   of the EIA Resource and Response Centre (ERC), Goa, suggests.
 
 The town and country planning (TCP) department’s chief town planner, S T Puttaraju, says the government has identified 60 areas as disaster management sites in extreme events and natural disasters, like rising sea levels. “We have two levels of approach: the planning level and the disaster management level,” he says.
 
 As the administration is usually unable to reach such sites immediately, the onus is on the people affected to move swiftly to these elevated spots. “These will be provided with water supply till the NGOs concerned can provide help to them and the administration steps in,” Puttaraju explains, adding that the water resources department has done a study of submergible areas following the flooding disaster at Canacona a few years ago. 
 
 But, activists question why eco-sensitive zones, sand dunes, low-lying paddy fields and water bodies in CRZ are shown as settlement zones. “The type of construction activity proposed in outline development plans (ODPs) by planning and development authorities will be adverse for the environment,” Karapurkar says.
 
 Puttaraju says that while the TCP department will not release low-lying areas for settlement, “problems of illegal construction and reclamation in these zones are difficult to control”.
 
 After massive tree felling along highways, Martins says the central government has assured that more trees will be planted, while planning institutions are incorporating certain principles in construction to mitigate climate change. 
 
 
