CHANDIGARH: Hinting at a cash-for-job scam in the  , a local court, in Ambala, dismissed the anticipatory bail application of Balinder Kumar, one of the accused in the abetment to suicide case of Baljeet Singh, who allegedly collected around Rs 90 lakh from people and paid for employment in the state assembly. Baljeet of   village in Ambala district consumed celphos tablets and died during treatment at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh on December 24, 2016.

 "Considering the allegations and the fact that this case relates to providing employment in Vidhan Sabha, Haryana against consideration, this court is of the view that custodial interrogation of petitioner in this case is must, as custodial interrogation would be more qualitative and in such cases, bail cannot be granted only on the ground that petitioner is ready to return the documents," observed the Ambala court in its January 12 orders.
 
 Ambala additional sessions judge Narender Shura passed these orders while dismissing the anticipatory bail of Balinder Kumar, a resident of Nanyari village in Saharanpur district of Uttar Pradesh. Balinder had allegedly forced the deceased, Baljeet to sign a few documents and stamp papers.
 
 The petitioner, Balinder claimed he was falsely implicated in the case and was a victim of the deceased, Baljeet, who introduced him to one Ram Nath (another accused) and Balinder paid the money to Baljeet for getting government employment in Vidhan Sabha. He said he asked Baljeet to return the amount and that couldn't be termed as abetment.
 
 Opposing his bail, the prosecution stated that custodial interrogation of Balinder was necessary in the case and blank stamp paper signed by Baljeet was to be recovered. Hearing both the parties, the judge held that the petitioner and other accused created circumstances which led Baljeet to commit suicide.
 
 "It is not a simple case of repayment of the amount, allegedly paid by petitioner or asking for repayment, but it is clear that petitioner along with other co-accused have created such circumstances that Baljeet Singh committed suicide. Even if case of petitioner that he was asking for refund of the amount, is accepted in its entirety, the same cannot be endorsed by this court, as petitioner is also involved in illegal act of getting employment against consideration," the judge observed.
 
