GAYA: Notwithstanding the tactical support of a section of JD (U) leaders, it is an uphill task for   chairman   to retain the  . More than one lakh registered graduates of eight districts, including four of the five districts of Magadh division, will exercise their franchise for this council seat at 111 polling stations on March 9.
 
  In the multi-cornered contest,   candidate Punit Kumar Singh has emerged as the main challenger for the council chairman. Punit is the son of senior RJD functionary and former minister Jagadanand.
  
  RJD chief Lalu Prasad has entrusted a group of 18 party MLAs with the responsibility of ensuring Punit’s victory. In 2011, Awadhesh Narain Singh won the seat with chief minister Nitish Kumar’s support. Despite the BJP-JD (U) break up, the council chairman continues to have a very good personal rapport with Nitish.
  
  JD (U), on its part, has not fielded any candidate against the council chairman.   too is contesting the seat. Asked which of the two alliance partners the JD (U) would support – Congress or RJD – JD (U) district chief Shaukat Ali said he has not received any instruction from the party leadership in this regard.
  
  Conceding that it was no cakewalk for the council chairman, an NDA functionary said the presence of Sharim Ali as an independent candidate was the only silver lining in an otherwise difficult situation. Each vote polled for Sharim would bring BJP closer to victory, he said. “Without Sharim, we would not have won the Wazirganj assembly seat in 2010. This time too much depends on the kind of dent made by the independent candidate in the RJD support base,” he added.
  
  Playing down the Sharim factor, Md Nehaluddin, former MLA who represented Rafiganj seat of Aurangabad district, said Sharim was in the NDA till recently and he does not enjoy much support within the community. Sharim contested the 2015 assembly elections as an NDA candidate from the Belaganj assembly constituency. He was defeated by RJD strongman Surendra Prasad Yadav.
  
  Gaya district BJP chief Anil Swami said the party had a very strong political base among registered graduates and it was fighting on its own. Evading a direct response to the question whether Sharim’s presence has improved the electoral prospects of his party candidate, Swami said Sharim was contesting on his own and any perceived benefit to his party was just incidental.
