NEW DELHI: Led by  , Mukesh Ambani’s telecom venture   has managed to cross 100-million in subscribers, achieving the number in less than six months of its launch.

 Ambani is expected to make an announcement regarding the feat on Tuesday where he will also outline the future growth plans for the 4G-only company that has managed to disrupt the telecom market in India, sources said. He had publicly expressed his desire to cross the 100-million mark, when the company announced its official launch on September 1 last year.
 
 Jio, which marked Ambani’s second coming in the telecom business, has had a high-decibel run in the market. While its free services offering — especially the lifetime zero charges on voice calling — virtually took the steam out of the traditional telecom business, the company has been embroiled in a bitter war of words with the older telecom companies such as Bharti Airtel, Vodafone and Idea Cellular.
 
 The older companies have challenged Jio’s free services offering, especially the launch of a new scheme from this year onwards that promised the zero-cost benefits on data till at least the end of March. On the other hand, Jio has blamed them for not providing enough inter-connect points, thus leading to massive call failures on its network.
 
 While Bharti Enterprises chief Sunil Mittal has said that Jio’s free pricing is predatory and has hurt the business of telecom companies, the aggressive entry of Jio has also hastened consolidation efforts between the nervous telecom companies, the most notable being the merger talks between Vodafone and Idea Cellular.
 
 Ambani has thrown clear hints that the aggressive posturing will continue further as he promised to pump even more investments into the business in the coming time over the Rs 1.7 lakh crore that have already been invested. In the second week of January, the company’s board had approved a Rs 30,000 crore rights issue and said that these funds will be used to expand network and enhance coverage and capacity. 
 
 
