NASHIK: Sufficient rain coupled with construction of facilities such as check dams and wells to   as part of the state government’s   has made life much easier for the people of Sinnar taluka in the district.

 Such is the difference that for the first time in seven years, not a single tanker was pressed into service in December to provide drinking water to the villagers and the situation still remains the same.
 
 Sinnar taluka had to cope up with severe droughts for the last four consecutive years. Records reveal that the central parts of Sinnar taluka — in and around the town — are the ones where   is felt most.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Sinnar tehsildar   said the villagers do not need water tankers this year. “The wells, which become dry by February, still have good amount of water. Various projects related to water retention have been carried out in different villages of the taluka. The availability of water so far is good,” added Khairnar.
 
 Ajit Desai, a resident of Sinnar’s Vavi village, said, “It is the first time that our taluka received heavy rainfall. Also for the first time large number of water conservation activities were carried out across the taluka and for the first time there are no water tankers even in February. Otherwise, there are at least ten tankers plying in the taluka.”
 
 The situation in Manegaon and surrounding villages is also better. There may not be surface water visible in the region, but the ground water level is still good and the farmers have taken rabi crop this year.
 
 “Only good rainfall would not have helped as the water would have drained down. Also, only Jalyukta Shivar works would not have helped if there would have been no water. The works just came up at the right time,” Sunil Jadhav from Dubere village said.
 
 Namdeo Sanap, from Nimgaon village, said that village did not see any water conservation work and the monsoon alone was responsible for the current situation. “We are still waiting for the works to begin, but the rainfall has been good this year to the extent that there is a green cover instead of the usual barren land,” he said.
 
