Scandals emerge every time Goa’s universally hated casino “industry” is put under the barest scrutiny. The latest disgrace comes in small print of a police complaint made by Tereza Fernandez, who alleges her colleague spiked her coffee with drugs on New Year’s Eve, then stole a gold chain worth 1.5 lakhs. The victim reported she works onboard an “offshore” casino, “in the childrens section.” Her job is to take care of the offspring of gamblers. This despite the strict state legal requirement that only clients above 18 can be allowed into gaming venues.

 Of course, the casino “industry” will have ready glib excuses. There will be clarifications. It will be pointed out “gaming areas” certainly dominate the “offshore” vessels moored in the Mandovi, but there are tiny sections demarcated for other use. Thus, technically, and especially if you want to turn the other way, the children are not exactly in the casinos. Toparaphrase ex-President Bill Clinton, it depends on the meaning of the word “in.”
 
 Just so, it is in the nature of casinos, everywhere in the world, to con the public and also manipulate the political process. In Goa, the record is particularly grotesque, sucking in even ostensibly upright, moral-policing office bearers of the RSS and   (the   brought in gambling in the first place). Just five years ago, Manohar Parrikar protested the deeply unpopular gambling dens, called them “a social evil”, and promised to eject them. He swore the state did not need their “bad money”. Then infamous, ugly reversal. At Parrikar’s swearing-in, the leading casino operator of the state took a prime seat alongside the nation’s most important politicians.
 
 Examine the modus operandi of the casino “industry” anywhere it operates, and distinct patterns emerge. First, series of lies about benefits accrued to state and society. Then, limitless pipelines of cash streaming directly into the pockets of politicians and police. Now, legal and security oversight is compromised, and it’s easy to discredit civic outrage. This explains India’s leading casino operator blithely dismissing near-unanimous public opposition in Goa as “a few vested interests.” In fact, there is a vast consensus that the state’s gambling industry must be immediately controlled, and soon phased out entirely.
 
 Goa’s venal political cadre epenly colludes with casino operators to pretend no better options exist. So gambling operates with impunity, almost lawless. Advertising proliferates highly inappropriately. Flying into Dabolim, its easy to get the impression India’s smallest state’s main attraction is gambling. But most destinations featuring casinos severely restrict or ban advertising. Why is that not the case in Goa? Further, the state government has now completely capitulated to operator demands to stay – highly controversially – in the Mandovi river, citing extremely dubious infrastructure concerns. But then, why not move immediately to the port in Mormugao, which has every facility required?
 
 Look around the world, and it becomes painfully clear casinos are a cancer which can only be eradicated through aggressive radical surgery. They don’t go easy. This “industry” is both founded and grounded in massive illegality, and will do anything to stay in business. Here, the experience of little Macau is highly relevant, especially since the Goa government this week grandly announced it will implement gaming rules “on the Macau model.”
 
 No place on earth has been so thoroughly corrupted and brought to its knees by gambling than Macau. In just a few decades, the locals stand reduced to less than 20% of the population. Just 500,000 residents play host to over 25 million visitors per year. It is by far the largest casino destination, with six times more revenue than Las Vegas, and more than 50% of its economy coming from gambling. This has meant increasing power for organized crime, the dreaded triads of China who now act as a shadow government in the territory.
 
 Prostitution and money laundering are rife, even the Chinese police say they’re uncontrollable.
 
 Thus, it’s interesting, but typical, that Goa’s state government chooses to embark on a “Macau model” with regard to casinos, but conspicuously avoids consultation with Jose Pereira Coutinho, the Goan lawyer who is the sole non-Chinese member of the  . For many years, he’s been an extraordinary voice of conscience about gambling, stating truth in the face of overwhelming power. His is an invaluable voice, with particular importance to Goa. It’s just a matter of fact, Coutinho says, “The government tells us casino bring [revenue]. That is not true, because the gains are only for a few.”
 
 The writer is a widely-published author & photographer
 
