NEW DELHI: We have been noticing a sharp increase in incidents where depraved men flaunt their lustful behaviour in public. Molestation of several women on busy Bengaluru streets has brought the issue into sharp focus. How we no longer feel revulsion for such acts was reflected in the Karnataka home minister's callous remark that "such incidents do happen on New year's eve". 

 Why do such incidents happen in public? That just a small group of goons could traumatise New Year revellers shows two things - the perpetrators' lack of respect for law and law enforcing agencies (police) and the cowardice of the general public in not taking on the goons.
 
 There is another side to the story. Even when police act tough against such men, courts world over have been periodically penning unpalatable judgments allowing the perpetrators to walk free or serve light sentences. The world judiciary continues to suffer from bouts of 'victim-bashing' in sexual assault cases. 
 
 The Karnataka home minister's despicably insensitive remark would pale before the disturbing text and tenor of these judgments.
 
 In 1982, an Ipswich crown court judge, Bertrand Richards, let off a man accused of raping a 17-year-old hitchhiker with a fine of 2,000. Richards blamed the girl of contributory negligence, saying she knowingly took the risk by accepting a lift from a stranger on a lonely stretch. 
 
 In 2007, two men raped a 10-year-old girl in a park in the UK. Oxford crown court judge Julian Hall let off the men with two year and nine months sentences, respectively. The depraved logic stood out in the judgment, "She liked to dress provocatively... Did she look like she was 10? Certainly not. She looked 16."
 
 In 2012, a Cambridge crown court let off a 15-year-old, who forced a five-year-old girl to perform oral sex on him at a time when he was assigned to babysit her. The boy's excuse was twofold - hormones took over and he had been watching excessive pornography. 
 
 Judge Gareth Hakersworth had this gem to offer: "I am satisfied that it was impulsive and I believe you have become sexualised by your exposure to the corruption of pornography. Your exposure at such young age has ended in a tragedy. It was the fault of the world and society."
 
 In 2014, Canadian provincial court judge Robin Camp's bizarre handling of a case, in which a 19-year-old was raped in a house party, had stoked a major furore. Camp had asked the victim "why couldn't you just keep your knees together". He acquitted the man with a sermon, "I want to tell your friends, your male friends, that they have to be far more gentle with women. 
 
 They have to be far more patient. And they have to be careful. To protect themselves, they have to be very careful." India also has its share of such judgements. Justice Narain Singh Azad of Madhya Pradesh high court awarded cursory punishment to rapists in nearly a hundred cases, which ranged from a few months to a few years. The logic: the offenders were illiterate tribals having no access to education. The SC had sent back these cases to the HC for reconsideration.
 
 What we saw world over was once the thinking of the Supreme Court in the 1970s. In Mathura rape case, the SC in 1978 acquitted two policemen of rape charges on the ground that 16-year-old Mathura did not raise alarm while being sexually assaulted inside a police station and, more shockingly, relied on medical reports which suggested that she was habituated to sexual intercourse. It reasoned that she was of easy virtue and could not be believed.
 
 A woman had lodged a sexual assault case against police inspector Madhukar Narayan Mardikar in 1965. On the basis of her complaint, a departmental inquiry was set up and the policeman was dismissed from service. The Bombay HC reinstated the policeman in service and said, "Since the complainant was an unchaste woman, it would be extremely unsafe to allow the fortune and career of a government official to be put in jeopardy upon the uncorroborated version of such a woman who makes no secret of her illicit intimacy with another man."
 
 In the Mardikar judgment (AIR 1991 SC 207) pronounced 25 years later, the SC ruled, "Even a woman of easy virtue is entitled to privacy and no one can invade her privacy as and when he likes. So also, it is not open to any and every person to violate her person as and when he wishes. She is entitled to protect her person if there is an attempt to violate it against her wish. She is equally entitled to the protection of law. Therefore, merely because she is a woman of easy virtue, her evidence cannot be thrown overboard." 
 
 At least in judgments, India appears to be a better place on the world map, with aberrations like Bengaluru. 
 
  Society, police and judges still rest a lot of their judgments on the manner in which a woman dresses, speaks and mingles with others. Unfortunately, men, who run an anatomy search on every woman they come across, do not face similar stigmatic branding. It would be safer for women on the streets if we start branding men based on depraved conduct and stand against them. 
 
 
