MADURAI: They have invaded almost all the busy streets of Madurai city and cause accidents by taking the motorists unawares during the night. They even hold up traffic at junctions during the day. However, even the city  , with its shelters capable of housing twenty animals and 50 in Sellur and  , is unable to do much to rein in stray cattle.

  Though a spot fine of Rs 1,000 can be slapped on the owners of these cattle, they don’t seem to mind as they know ways to evade the same. Cattle rearing has also increased in the city limits like   where there are about six cattle sheds rearing about 10 cows each within a radius of one kilometre.
 
 P Kannan of   had to shell out Rs 3,000 to repair the damage caused to his two-wheeler when a bull crossed his path on Thursday night bringing him down with the vehicle. “I sustained scratches while the petrol tank of my vehicle started leaking and had to be towed away in a tricycle,’’ he said. Many people have had similar accidents in Anna Nagar, Melamadai, Vandiyur, Teppakulam and even Simmakkal junction in the heart of the city.
 
 G Annadurai of Anna Nagar says that cattle rearing has also increased as the demand for milk from native breeds of cows has increased. “Milk sells for Rs 80 a litre and people think it is a profitable business. Many have bought cows and started milking them. They let the animals roam on the roads and feed on their own,’’ he said.
 
 Corporation assistant health officer Dr K Parthiban said that the people should become more conscious of the dangers posed by the roaming cattle if the menace had to be checked by the civic body. The corporation does seize cattle on the road. Once the cattle are seized and taken to the shelter, the owner has to pay Rs 3,000 to retrieve his animal within 24 hours. Over 24 hours, maintenance fee of Rs 500 is charged per day. 
 
 “However, I feel that the   can be controlled if the corporation imposes the fines strictly and imposes the amounts as it claims,’’ said S Sundarai of Ayyer Bangalow.
 
