 has rolled out its three cut-offs and most of the seats in the colleges in North Campus have been occupied. While the admission season is still on, it is also the time for fuchchas and their parents to prepare themselves for that 'DU life' beginning July 20. But it's not just what you’d assume...bunking classes, hangout spots, fresher parties and ghar jaisa khaana in PGs have taken a backseat, as security is the first thing that most students and their parents are thinking of while prepping for the new academic session or looking for PGs in the campus area.

  And they aren't willing to risk it for anything. Parents are looking for PGs with extra security, not necessarily better facilities. And the things that most freshers have ticked on their security checklist are not just the usual pepper spray or safety apps, but chilli powder and nail cutters, as well! "You cannot take any risk while you are moving to another city, so these things can’t be ignored," says Sagarika Mukul from Aligarh, who has taken admission at  .
 
  
 Haryana-based Anand Sharma, whose daughter   took admission at Ramjas in BSc (Zoology), says that more than anything, they look for safety in a PG. "We are ready to pay extra, but we will not take any chances with the safety of my daughter. We want a PG where the guard is on duty 24x7 and the CCTV cameras are in place." 
 
  
  
 
  Additionally, Pooja says she will make sure she carries pepper spray with her. "Our security is in our hands. I am always going to keep a pepper spray handy and I think a nail cutter can also be really helpful in an emergency situation."
 
  
  Picture for representational purposes only
 
  Manya Goyal, a Delhiite who has also taken admission at Ramjas in BCom (Hons), says that downloading security apps can also be helpful. "I know about many apps that help you keep your friends and family updated about your location, or send an alarm to them if you are stuck in any emergency situation. I am going to download a safety app before I attend my first day of college," she says.
 
  
 Though most girls say that the first thing in their checklist is a pepper spray, some also tell us that pins and pens can also be helpful while travelling in buses.   from Ludhiana, who has taken admission at Hans Raj, says, "A nail cutter helps, but I think even pins and pens help a lot. A student might not have a pepper spray, but they will definitely have a pen. Agar bus mein travel kar rahe ho aur koi faltu mein chipak raha hai toh pens bahut help karte hain."
 
  
  
 
  Madhu Saiwala, who has come from Sirsa for her daughter’s admission at Ramjas, adds, "Students carrying knives is a little extreme, I think, but they should always be alert while stepping out. They should definitely know some self-defence techniques because that can really help. My daughter does not know self-defence, but I do. So I am going to train her in some techniques before she starts living here all by herself. Aur woh apne paas thoda sa chilli powder bhi rakh sakti hai."
 
 
  
  
 
