UDUPI: An   about the Karnataka Pramod Madhwaraj Abhimanigala Samaja Seva Sangha ( ) gives people a chance to know their leader’s life. 

 The app, available on Google PlayStore since Monday, has been already been downloaded 75,000 times. People will get updates and information about the minister's programme schedules, news and social work. 
 
 Rahul L, president of KPMASS and a social worker, said, "The sangha is a registered organization and concentrates on social service or brings people in this sector to the limelight so that they are an inspiration to others. Individuals, social service organizations or NGO doing humanitarian work are given medals and certificates at public functions.” 
 
 The app is linked to the M   which helps poor and needy patients. Pramod has continued the legacy of his father, the late M Madhwaraj. “We want to spread his good work in the society. Our website www.kpmass.org also gives details of the minister’s daily programmes and schemes. We have a WhatsApp number too so anyone contact us about human rights violations, any injustice or social service programmes.” 
 
 He added, “Even though most groups are formed with a legitimate intent to improve education, governance, environment, legal system and healthcare, many of these organisations have either failed to function properly or forced to close shop mainly due to lack of publicity. For the government and Non-Governmental Organisations which wish to provide service to the society, this could be a good platform. We don't want financial support from people; we’re asking professionals to donate their service to the needy. The organization has a seven-member committee and has eight district co-ordinators.”
 
 Pramod suggested a special campaign about helping accident victims. Due to fear of a police case, people backed out from helping victims. “However, the law has changed as per the apex court order and people should come forward and help them. We’re felicitating those who help. More than ten people have already been felicitated by the minister,” he said.
 
 
