This fashion show might not make it to Delhi's fashion calendar, but the women prisoners of Tihar made sure that it was every bit like a professional ramp show when they presented their debut khadi collection at Dilli Haat, Janakpuri. Not only the collection, they took everyone by surprise with the confidence with which they walked the ramp, too.

  
  Tihar inmates walk the ramp at the fashion show
 
 
  
 The Tihar jail administration organised the fashion show to showcase the designs of the inmates after the completion of their certificate course in fashion designing. The inmates also paraded with models wearing their own designs. The front row at this fashion show not just had the family members of the inmates, but also the guests like, Delhi Law Minister   and  , chairperson, Delhi Commission for Women (DCW). 
 
 
  
  (L-R) Imran Zahid 
 Shailendra Singh Parihar, DIG, Tihar (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
 Sudhir Yadav, DG Tihar, said that they have observed positive changes in the inmates during the course. Even as 24 inmates joined the course, six of them had to discontinue after they were released from the prison.
 
  
 For this eight-month course, the jail administration had tied up with a fashion institute, and are willing to partner with more institutes after seeing such a good response from the inmates. The jail officials told us that the Tihar Fashion laboratory will train more inmates and will also market their designs. Shailendra Singh Parihar, DIG, Tihar, told us, "Our main purpose is the certificate course and not production. But the response to the outfits was tremendous. So, we are planning to take it to the next level. We are looking for a collaboration for production and marketing of these designs. If we receive proposals, we will definitely sell these. But it's not for our profit, it's to build confidence in the inmates by giving them a career option after they are released from jail."
 
  
  (L-R)  , chairman, KVIC
 
 
  
  Delhi Law Minister Kailash Gahlot (L) and Sudhir Yadav, DG, Tihar (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
 
 
