Shaleen Bhanot, who was last seen on the small screen as Duryodhan in  , is back with another royal character, but one he describes as "humble, polite and a great warrior." The actor went through a complete makeover and gained weight to look not just muscular, but also bulky for 'Sher-E-Punjab:  ', in which he plays Maha Singh, the father of Ranjit Singh, the founder of the Sikh Empire. 

 
 
  
  In a new TV show, Damanpreet plays the Sikh ruler, while Shaleen plays his father (BCCL)
 
 
 About his transformation, Shaleen says, "In any historical show, it is very important to have the look right. The audience has evolved now and pays attention to how history is being presented on screen. I had to work hard for months for the role."
 
 The transition from being Duryodhan to Maha Singh has been tough, but it is a welcome change for Shaleen. "When I was playing Duryodhan, I would be so tired by the end of the shoot that I could barely stand. It wasn’t just the shooting hours, but the aggression that I had to show on camera that was draining me. It wasn’t easy to be in that mode as I am not an aggressive person in real life. That is not the case with this show. I am playing a warrior, but he is also someone who is grounded and polite," says the actor.
 
 
 
  
  Shaleen Bhanot with  , who is playing the lead in the show about Maharaja Ranjit Singh, while Shaleen plays his father (BCCL)
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Shaleen tells us that he was not fond of studying history during his school days, but thanks to his shows, he has read more history than ever. "When I was in school, I was not good in history. Maybe that’s why I am being made to read up so much history now. It was still easy to play Duryodhan since we have all grown up listening to stories from the Mahabharat. But with this show, I had to read up a lot on not just Maharaja Ranjit Singh, but also the history of that era." About the show, Shaleen says, 'It is a historical show, not a religious show. I spent a lot of time with the creative team of the show to understand Ranjit Singh better. When we were travelling for the show’s promotions, people in Punjab told me some interesting stories about him. As a child, I used to come to Delhi with my grandparents to go to places like  , and on one visit, I remember reading the board of Maharaja Ranjeet Singh Marg and seeing his statue. I had asked my nani who Maharaja Ranjit Singh was. Now that I am doing this show, I am trying to find out if he actually ever visited that place in central Delhi, where the road has been named after him." 
 
 When the news of Shaleen doing a show on Ranjit Singh was out, many people thought he would be playing the lead character, but he says, "Many people have been asking me this, but I think I was chosen to play the role of his father because he played an important role in Ranjit Singh’s life.'
 
 
 
 
 
