AJMER:   like escalator and lift are priority for the divisional railways in Ajmer in the upcoming budget. Security and speed of trains are also important provisions that Ajmer division is eyeing for Ajmer, Udaipur and other railway stations.

 “We need more trains for Ajmer as well as extension of   and Nasirabad Bundi line,” said khadims of the dargah of  . 
 
 The railways has already started Ajmer-Pushkar rail service. Now, there is a demand for increasing the speed of the train as well as extension of the rail line to Merta in Nagaur. At present, Pushkar is the last station. “If direct rail service is started for Pushkar then certainly the number of tourists and devotees will increase to the holy town,” said Dinesh Parashar, a priest in Pushkar.
 
 Sources said that the divisional headquarters has sent a proposal for passenger facilities for stations like Ajmer, Udaipur, Rana Partap Nagar, Abu Road and other B grade railway stations of the division. “Amenities include lifts for passengers who want to cross railway line to reach another platform as well as escalator on every platform,” said a source.
 
 Officials said that in the last six months amenities at different railway stations of Ajmer division have been increased and divisional railway manager Puneet Chawla managed to provide the facilities through corporate social responsibility mode. 
 
 “Major work was taken up in last six months which was planned since 40 years like developing Daurai and Madar railway stations as satellite stations of Ajmer and the work is nearing completion,” added an official. 
 
 Another big plan which has been initiated is the second gate opposite the railway station to divert traffic on the main road outside the station.
 
 Officials said that the project of doubling and electrification of Ajmer division is under progress. The division is upgrading these lines to get higher speed on prevailing tracks. “Most importantly, Ajmer railway station has been given a world class look with green walls, calligraphy of Rajasthani art and round-the-clock cleanliness,” said Sunil Singhal, superintendent engineer of Ajmer Smart City Company Ltd.
 
 An innovative step is provision of authorized shoe polish service at the station, which gives jobs to youths.
 
 For this year’s budget, a railway medical college in Ajmer has also been proposed. Also, there is demand to provide work to employees of locomotive and workshop situated in Ajmer to save it from becoming defunct. 
 
 “Facilities like retiring room, waiting room and baby feeding room on the station have already been provided by the railways,” said officials.
 
 Expectations from budget
 
  rail line
 
 Nasirabad-Bundi rail line
 
 New trains from Ajmer to Pushkar
 
 New trains for Ajmer
 
 
