Nagpur: New   arrangements have recently been implemented at Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar International   by Mihan India Limited (MIL) taking into consideration the increase in traffic as most of the time porch area in front of terminal building used to get congested due to large number of vehicles using this area; hence MIL rightly segregated the traffic in four different zones.

 Appreciating this move a delegation of Vidarbha Taxpayers Association (VTA) led by its president JP Sharma met and congratulated VS Mulekar, senior airport Director and also submitted memorandum of slight suggestions to make this new system more users friendly.
 
 During this meeting also present were Tejinder Singh Renu — secretary VTA and also Advisory Committee Member of MADC, Executive Body Members of VTA Amarjeet Singh Chawla & Saqib Parekh, Abid Ruhi — General Manager, Suraj Shinde — senior Manager (AP & C), Yeshwant Saratkar — Manager (Security). 
 
 J.P. Sharma appreciated the new four zone parking arrangements and expected the citizens will soon start using them for their convenience. Sharma also said that since Nagpur has many passengers for Chennai and Jaipur, so efforts for flight catering to these sections should be carried out. 
 
 Tejinder Singh Renu requested that   being nearest to airport building is absolutely perfect; however we have observed many VIPs using this lane, which should be strictly banned for any passenger use as now we have enough free drop area where   cars can waited for their esteem guests. This area should only be used by Security, Ambulance, Fire Brigades and likewise.
 
 Renu said that General Pickup & Drop Area is presently the most controversial area as the time of 5 minutes is too less, as many times passengers has experienced huge rush at exit as we have only one RFID card and fees collection kiosk wherein most cars takes time and the cars in queue are unnecessarily taxed for no mistake of theirs. 
 
 Renu also requested that General Parking Area has VIP Lane nearer to the building which we have also objected earlier and this should be removed as now Prime Minister and Govt of India is declaring Every Person is Important (EPI), it’s high time MIL also support the call and implement accordingly. 
 
 Sr. Airport Director V. S. Mulekar highly appreciated VTA’s efforts of bringing these issues before them in public interest. He assured that another RFID card and fees collection kiosk will soon be installed at exit of General Pickup & Drop Area. He also assured that by same day evening VIP Lane in General Parking will be removed. 
 
 VTA also requested citizens to use parking area responsibly, with request to all VIPs of the city that they should not park their vehicles in Emergency Lane. Moreover citizens should not park their vehicles on Wardha Road and Airport Road corner just to avoid parking charge of Rs40; their drivers must be wasting more fuel in doing so. Likewise we should wisely choose parking lane as per our usage and avoid unnecessary confrontation with parking staff. 
 
 
