NEW DELHI: The past year began on a high for the   government as far as   is concerned with the successful completion of the odd-even road rationing scheme. But beyond that there was little to write home about on this count.

 Not a single   was added to the Delhi Transport Corporation’s depleting fleet, the promise of an addition of 3,000 to the public transport system remaining unfulfilled.   is down to 4,000 vehicles, but Delhi government struggled to even issue a tender for more buses. The cluster bus system too strengthened its fleet by just 250-odd buses instead of the promised 1,000. The government also announced intentions of bringing in midi and mini buses, but these are still just plans.
 
 Passenger information services at bus stops, a common mobility card and e-ticketing were all to have made a debut this past year. None did, at least not fully. While e-ticketing was introduced in several buses, a common mobility card remained a dream as the digitisation of the ticketing process was not completed. Introduction of GPS and Wi-Fi in buses was also confined to the pilot project. Deployment of marshals similarly took place only in a few hundred buses.
 
 The AAP government’s much-touted scheme for registration of e-rickshaws had few takers, ending with only an intake of around 3,500 vehicles, leaving thousands still plying without registration. The government, prodded by Delhi high court, however, started issuing the permits to add 10,000 more autorickshaws to the city’s roads. And having failed to formulate a comprehensive policy for taxi aggregators, app-based taxi companies are continuing to operate unhindered.
 
 Perhaps the only action that was promised and almost completed was the dismantling of the BRT stretch in south Delhi. However, the work on clearing the corridor for regular traffic is still going on.
 
 As for the opening of the new Delhi Metro lines, the deadline of December 2016 came and went. Sections of the two new corridors are now slated to start operating in June, while the extension of the Central Secretariat line to Kashmere Gate will probably be ready by March. The big bad news, however, is that many Phase III sections may miss the new 2017 deadline as well. A minor positive was the approval given to Phase IV by Delhi government, paving the way for the metro train to reach outlying Delhi areas.
 
 
