In her five-year tenure as the vice chancellor of the   (KKSU),   not only streamlined the system that had gone haywire, but also made efforts to inculcate and boost research habits among the students for promotion of Sanskrit. She literally had to start from scratch to upgrade the infrastructure of the university which has a big disadvantage of being located in Ramtek but has statewide jurisdiction. 

 Right from struggling to have Internet connectivity to getting quarters for the VC, she had to fight on all fronts. Vaidya’s sustained efforts bore fruit as the number of students who took admission grew by over a thousand that also included some foreigners in the affiliated colleges at places like Mumbai. 
 
 In a tête-à-tête with TOI, Vaidya explains about her tenure and efforts for promotion of Sanskrit in the region. Excerpts from the ...
 
 
 
 
 A. It was very fruitful, with time I could have done more. Being a Mumbai resident for over 44 years, it wasn’t easy adopt to a new place. When I arrived, the entire university was in bad shape. Right from the power connection to Internet connectivity, there was a big problem. Leave aside the bungalow for VC, even the KKSU guesthouse had just a couple of rooms. Handling two campuses (the other one at Mor Bhavan in city) was even more difficult. In fact, even the statues and ordinances of the university were not in place, even after 15 years of its establishment from 1997.
 
 
 
 
 A. I started with improving the infrastructure and facilities, and also to boost the morale of staff. There was often lack of communication between our two centres, primarily due to distance. It wasn’t possible for us every time to travel to Nagpur as it would waste a minimum of three hours. We’ve decided to install solar panels to generate power from the   funds with a view to become self-sufficient. We also set up video conferencing facility too. We got help from the Vidarbha Statutory Development Board and Sanskrit Department of Mumbai University. For the first time in 15 years, I invited NAAC and also started a website. We have become the first university in Vidarbha and only second in Maharashtra to have got exemption under Section 80G of Income Tax Act, for donors. We made it mandatory for our students to write a part of PhD theses in Sanskrit.
 
 
 
 A. I wanted to change the old methods of teaching and introduce new ones with the help of technology. I tried to re-introduce traditional gurukul method of teaching. We made it mandatory for the staff to sing the national anthem at start of the office along with some Sanskrit shlokas, including Gayatri mantra. We started a one-year diploma course titled ‘Ancient India Environment studies’ which was unique in this part of the country. We also conduct a short-term spoken and written programmes for the students and staff.
 
 
 
 A. Sanskrit is often associated with reading Vedas and Upanishads. But it’s not so, we encouraged students to explore new fields. We presented many papers during symposium on ancient Indian sciences organized at Indian Science Congress. Those were on various subjects like Vimana Shastra, ancient architecture, and Yoga Shastra. It was perhaps for the first time, efforts were made to bring these aspects to fore, which was much appreciated. We made students study old literature. We motivated them to study various ‘lipis’ which would help them to decipher various manuscripts. 
 
 
 
 
 A. An international convention centre and museum where foreign students can study will come up there. Currently, they were pursuing Sanskrit courses in Somaiyya Vidya Vihar, in Mumbai. We plan to make Nagpur, a big hub for Sanskrit-related courses.
 
 
 
 
 A. There are several. So far, it was thought that learning Sanskrit is only meant for either becoming a teacher or a priest in temple. But they can join as translators in organizations like Aakashwani. They’re much sought for compèring programmes. They can also work with archealogical departments, in museums or become Yoga instructors. Even in organizations like Tata and Bhabha, which are into research, Sanskrit graduates are much in demand.
 
 
 
 
 A. We want to introduce courses in Manuscriptology and paleography. We’re also publishing   books and so far released three volumes. 
 
