Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has added mouza Bhandewadi, stretching across 289 acre, in the proposed Smart City project. Now, the total area to be converted into Smart City has increased from 951 acre to 1,240 acre. NMC’s special purpose vehicle, Nagpur Smart and Sustainable City Development Corporation Limited (NSSCDCL), issued a notification some days ago to make citizens aware about the proposed town planning scheme in areas covered under Smart City project. The areas mentioned in the proposed town planning scheme are Pardi, Bharatwada, Punapur and Bhandewadi. Before this, right from the initial stage to approval from the central government, NMC had mentioned only Pardi, Bharatwada and Punapur under the project. NSSCDCL CEO Ramanath Sonawane told TOI Bhandewadi has been added considering the land use survey done by NMC in April. “Ahmedabad-based Hasmukh C Patel Design, Planning and Management Private Ltd undertook a survey in proposed areas and recommended addition of Bhandewadi, citing an advantage of geographical area. Another reason was town planning scheme requires larger area.” Earlier, 11,193 families residing in Pardi, Bharatwada and Punapur were covered by the project. With addition of Bhandewadi, the number of families is likely to increase to over 15,000. East Nagpur MLA Krishna Khopde said NMC’s decision will benefit not only Bhandewadi but also entire East Nagpur. “Bhandewadi comprises of unauthorized layouts, which lack basic amenities like the other three nearby areas. I was surprised to see Bhandewadi being left out of the project earlier. I raised the issue a couple of times with the civic chief and office bearers of NMC,” he said. Khopde added that the upcoming off-campus centre of Pune-based Symbiosis University and sports stadiums of Sports Authority of India (SAI) are situated near Bhandewadi, so the area will naturally align with the Smart City project. NMC sources told TOI that presence of abundant vacant land seems to have encouraged NMC to include Bhandewadi. “The Smart City project is dependent upon land pooling. Also, vacant land along with existing scattered residences is a boon for town planning schemes. All these features are in place at Bhandewadi,” he said. Sonawane also said that the plan is to prepare draft of town planning scheme by October-end, followed by submission to the state government for final approval. “We are planning to kick-off execution of infrastructure works like roads, sewage lines, water works etc in areas of Smart City project in January next year. The project may be completed in 2019 if everything goes as per our plan,” he said. The estimated cost of proposed Smart City project at Pardi, Bharatwada and Punapur was Rs876 crore. With addition of Bhandewadi, the estimated project cost will also increase. Sonawane clarified that the revision in project does not require the central government’s approval. Thus, lengthy formality is also avoided.