MUMBAI: The state plans to initiate an inquiry against   vice-chancellor Sanjay Deshmukh and the   assessment process he championed following the delay in the announcement of results. The university is yet to announce the results of around 400 of the 477 exams held in April-May 2017.

 On Wednesday, higher education minister Vinod Tawde told the legislative council that the government would initiate a probe against Deshmukh. “Students are traumatized by the delay in results. The state government will have to find reasons for the delay. An inquiry will be conducted against the person and also the assessment process,” said Tawde.
 
 The inquiry may be a prelude to Deshmukh’s exit, considering the mess in the university; its administrators stand accused of mismanaging the task of setting up an online system of assessment. TOI had reported on Tuesday that the government was considering asking governor Vidyasagar Rao,who is also chancellor of Mumbai University, to secure Deshmukh’s resignation in a bid to counter the growing perception that the state had failed to arrest the drift at the university.
 
 Vice-chancellor Deshmukh has merely completed two years of the mandated five-year term. It is rare for the government to announce such a probe against a sitting V-C -- it may be seen as the government’s open acknowledgement of the crisis in the varsity.
 
 Tawde’s announcement of the probe was in response to an attention motion moved by Congress leader Sharad Ranpise in the legislative council. Shiv Sena members Anil Parab and Neelam Gorhe too demanded the VC’s resignation. They alleged that he was responsible for the unprecedented delay in declaration of results and that the government should initiate action against him.
 
 Tawde said the government will inform governor Ch Vidyasagar Rao about the views expressed by the council members. “It would be ideal if the governor were to act on the issue rather than a political party. We will forward the views expressed by members of the upper house to Raj Bhavan,” said the minister.
 
 The minister said 5.3 lakh arts, commerce, law and management answer papers are yet to be corrected, the bulk of them from the commerce stream. “As of now, around 70% of the total papers have already been assessed and the remaining 30% will be completed by July 31—the deadline set by the governor. The government is hiring more professors to complete the task within the timeframe,” said the minister.
 
 He said assessment of commerce answer sheets was a challenging task as the numbers were huge -- 3.75 lakh commerce answer papers to be assessed as against 61,992 of arts, 40,000 of law and 28,477 of management courses.
 
 Sena member Gorhe demanded waiver of the fee of Rs 600 charged for revaluation of papers after the results saying many may opt for it. Tawde replied, “We are yet to decide if revaluation fees can be waived fully or partially. We have received a memorandum from Yuva Sena (Shiv Sena’s youth wing) and Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad (BJP’s youth wing) with a similar demand.”
 
 Parab alleged that the situation was so out of hand that a history professor was assessing commerce exam answer sheets. Tawde said he would look into the matter.
 
