PANAJI: A spate of last minute defections by candidates and rejigging of parties by opportunistic politicians just before the assembly polls marred the election process as the election commission (EC) lacks a mechanism to curb this growing malaise.

 Goa, despite being a tiny state has been a laboratory for innovations in political defections. The state along with the north eastern states were infamous for the frequent change of governments in the 1990s. This time, in Goa, political analysts and citizens saw a frantic wave of floor crossings before the assembly polls.
 
 Congress MLAs Mauvin Godinho and Pandurang Madkaikar, Goa Vikas Party MLA Francisco Mickky Pacheco, independent MLA Naresh Sawal, and former MLA Manohar ‘Babu’ Azgaonkar of Congress were among legislators, who switched loyalties for political gains. Expelled Congress MLA, Atanasio ‘Babush’ Monserrate founded a new party named  , while a crop of new faces grabbed the opportunity and tagged themselves to political outfits at the last minute.
 
 “This is not a defection as members of legislative assembly (MLAs), but a defection of persons with a fond hope of getting elected, rendering the election system into a farce,” says  , a lawyer and poll analyst.
 
 The party system is the bedrock of parliamentary democracy. But the election commission enjoined with the responsibility of monitoring the process for fair elections finds itself ineffective in preventing this brash party hopping, said Coutinho. “Such players have vitiated the political atmosphere,” the former law commission member added.
 
 A saga of political greed and opportunism in the 1990s saw 13 chief ministers take oath for short tenures in just 12 years. The dubious record ended with the Centre tightening the anti-defection law in 2003. Then chief minister,   who was heading a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led coalition government in 2003, had supported it, stemming the political rot.
 
 But politicians and aspiring candidates have continued the defections, exploiting the loopholes at the cost of the party system. “The main parties like the BJP and smaller parties have added to it by attracting some winnable candidates or setting up others only to split rival parties votes,” said Coutinho.
 
 BJP Goa state unit president Vinay Tendulkar agreed that these defections had adversely affected the Goan polity. “Goan people want a stable government,” he said. While conceding that his party had faced criticism over admitting Godinho-Madkaikar duo, he supported electoral reforms to clean up state politics.
 
 Poll analysts suggest strict rules in setting up candidates and granting recognition to parties.
 
 One of the problems identified is lack of records of elections of a political party with the EC. “Unless authenticated documents regarding organizational set-up are available with some authority, it is difficult to decide such matters,”   MP, Shantaram Naik said.
 
 The EC must update rolls of party membership at least six months before the elections. “This would help cross-check the membership of persons set up by the party,” Coutinho said.
 
 Stopping registration of new parties six months before elections, and also mandating at least six months party membership for candidates is necessary, says political analysts. “This may not eliminate the party hopping syndrome but certainly the curse of last minute switching of loyalties can be curbed in Goan politics,” Coutinho said.
 
