Nagpur: You elected them to the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to raise the problems faced by you. You expected them to take the rulers by horn when they took anti-people decision. Unfortunately, most Nagpurians say they only got disappointed on this count. In a House of 145 corporators, hardly 10 to 15 corporators effectively raised the issues. Rest silently and in many cases apathetically watched the proceedings, raising a few slogans when it was required.

 Raju Lokhande, a senior corporator of BRP-BMS, is one such example. He has been elected several times as he attends to the problem of his voters without fail. However, he is a virtual nonentity during the NMC general body meeting. In the last five years he was a member of ruling combine. 
 
 Lokhande claims that he had raised his voice when the House took anti-people decisions. “I have always fought for the rights of the public. However, it is a fact that it is better to address people’s problem directly than raise them in the House,” he said.
 
 A young BJP corporator, who held an important post in the outgoing government, said on the condition of anonymity that he did not raise any issue in the House for the fear of antagonizing NMC officials. “In most cases if you speak up, you expose some or other officer. The NMC officers are a vindictive lot. They delay sanctioning of ward works, which harms the image of the corporator,” he added. 
 
 Kishor Dorle, an otherwise active independent corporator, too was inactive in the House. “What is the use of speaking up. Leader of opposition Vikas Thakre raised so many issues. Did he achieve anything? I however, got an unjust property tax law changed,” he said.
 
 A senior BJP corporator on condition of anonymity, however, charged the corporators with simply being apathetic. “Most corporators do not want to do in depth study of NMC working. They feel that raising issues in the House only gives you publicity in the media but voters are not impressed and it is better to concentrate on solving the problems of voters directly,” he added.
 
 The corporator further said, “In many cases corporators don’t even do that and hope to get elected due to their caste or community or due to their proximity to some big leader. Most women corporators are just representatives of their male relatives. They are discouraged by their families to take active part in NMC proceedings.”
 
 Vedprakash Arya, former party leader of NCP in NMC, echoed similar sentiments. “Most corporators concentrate on their wards only, they don’t want to make efforts to understand NMC working. In many cases seniors don’t want to help the new ones like explaining how to get files approved from NMC administration. Even if they do corporators don’t turn up at party meetings,” he said.
 
 Anil Sole, former mayor, however, blamed the Congress-led opposition for not providing an opportunity to corporators to raise issues. “In the last two years, the opposition was only interested in disrupting the proceedings of the House and creating ruckus,” he said.
 
 
