PATNA:   (PU) is likely to start demolition of all the existing illegal constructions on its campus from January 16. It has requested the district administration to provide adequate police force for demolition work in the light of the orders of Patna high court.

 PU proctor and registrar G K Palei said while most of illegal structures on the campus have already been demolished, as many as 11 unauthorised constructions still exist on the campus. “These structures would have to be demolished in the forthcoming   starting Monday,” he said.
 
 The illegal structures selected for demolition include an illegal ‘math’ located east of PU Guest House on the bank of the Ganga, a ‘thakurbari’ near the main entrance gate of PU office, another ‘thakurbari’ near mathematics department of  , the defunct animal house of Science College, an illegal construction erected behind Newton Hostel and some other unauthorized constructions near G D S Hostel at Krishna Kunj and also near   on Ganesh Dutt Road.
 
 A review meeting of PU officials was held here on Thursday and it was decided to include some legal professionals in the team supposed to carry out demolition work so that the so-called owners of these illegal ‘maths’ and ‘thakurbaris’ do not create hurdles during the demolition work, Palei said. 
 
 National Youth Day: The NSS volunteers of Patna University celebrated the National Youth Day at Wheeler Senate Hall here on Thursday by recalling the contributions of Swami Vivekananda in the national reawakening. Ritu Thakur of Magadh Mahila College, Madhu Srivastava of   and Gaurav Kumar of Patna College were awarded first, second and third prizes, respectively, in a speech contest organized on the occasion. PU pro-vice-chancellor Ranjit Kumar Verma gave away prizes to the winners.
 
 Inaugurating the celebrations, PU VC Y C Simhadri exhorted the students to imbibe the philosophy of Vivekananda in their life and contribute their might in social reconstruction. PU NSS programme coordinator Atul Aditya Pandey welcomed the guests. More than 250 NSS volunteers attended the function. 
 
 
