Techies giving up seven figure salaries to turn full-time farmers or using their little urban terraces for mini kitchen gardens is often looked upon as an uber cool trend. 

 But now a handful of IT professionals in Kerala are showing how to make the best of both worlds — they have set up vegetable gardens right in the premises of their office complexes! While Msquared of Technopark now has a plot filled with various fruit trees and vegetables,   of Infopark and Prakruti group of Trivandrum have been into in-campus vegetable farming for the past few months. Kochi Times takes a walk down these IT campuses
 
 
 
 The employees of UST Global, Kochi, took up farming on campus as a means to break out of the home-work-home rut. Dipin Varghese, who coordinates the farming activities in the company, says, “In order to engage in something else other than just work, we had started an online offshoot of the Ernakulam Public Library in our office eight months ago. The library also had a krishi club. Inspired by the same, one of our farming enthusiast employees, Srinath, asked why can’t we too start a vegetable garden in our campus.”
 Many other employees were also interested in the same and the techies decided to try their hand at cultivation. They earmarked about 20 cents of land in a plot near their office. “We grew only peas and ladies finger at this phase and hardly knew anything about farming, but produced veggies costing nearly `12,000! We sold it off in the campus around the time of Onam and also took a handful, home! That was a huge motivation to continue with it,” says Akash Viswom, another techie-farmer.
 
 Similarly, the employees of Msquared in Technopark, Trivandrum, started farming after seeing the success of farming on a land near their Ranni office. “Inspired by the same, we decided to devote a little time and identified about 30 cents for cultivation on our Trivandrum campus,” says Jinu Jose, CEO of the company, pointing at the farm which is now full of fruit trees.
 Prakruti, a group of green enthusiasts in Technopark, has also been into in-campus cultivation on 15 cents of land for the past two months. “We tried farming on a land near to the campus first, and the success motivated us. Our farm has veggies like bottle gourd, bitter gourd, brinjal and more growing well, now,” says Biju Sundaran of the group.
 
 
 
 All of these techies spend a major chunk of their time in their workplace, but that doesn’t stop them from taking out some time to take care of their garden. Biju says, “We take turns to water and weed the saplings in the mornings and evenings, and also during the break time. Sometimes, we also drop in during weekends to tend to the plants.”
 
 As for the UST Global folks, they had to turn the rocky terrain into fertile land, all by themselves! Lekha Chandran from the company says, “That did not deter our spirit. From a plot of land nearby, we gathered enough of soil and levelled the area, all by ourselves. We also filled growbags with soil and cow dung on our own and planted some saplings. This time, we graduated to five vegetables – peas, tomato, ladies finger, broad beans, green chili and brinjal. And what’s more, many of us also started cultivation at our homes, alongside!” The saplings have just started growing and the joy of watching it is something else and also a stress buster, say these techies.
 
 
 
 These techies ensure that they use only organic manure in their farms. Dipin of UST says, “We have bought cow dung from local farmers and as the next step, we are trying to set up a waste water treatment facility using water from our cafeterias.” The cultivators of Prakruti are also preparing pesticides on their own, mixing green leaves and cow dung. The techies also take training from various governments agricultural services, to sharpen their farming skills.
 
