NAGPUR: The   has now officially extended the last date for   under Right To Education ( ) quota till April 5, from the initial March 20 cut-off. TOI had reported on March 22 itself that the education department will not conduct the second round of lottery immediately and will instead extend the deadline to ensure that maximum students who got selected in first round can complete admission formalities.

 As per TOI’s report, admissions kept on continuing well past the March 20 cut-off even though no official communication had come through on extension. The reason for continuing was that only 37% of the selected students had completed admission formalities.
 
 On the last day, March 20, the education department was inundated with requests from parents and stakeholders to extend the deadline as many of them were not even aware that they got selected under  . Address proof and the documents required as proof were the primary reason for conflict between parents and education department. 
 
 Those living on rent were required to furnish a registered rental agreement copy, which overwhelming majority of parents did not have. An education official said, “They claimed to be from poor economic background and did not have the financial wherewithal or knowledge to get all the formalities completed. Later the department modified the rules and government issued address proof of rental premises was accepted. So if they have an Aadhar Card or driving licence bearing the rental address then we will accept it.”
 
 It is likely that the second round of RTE lottery will be conducted immediately after the new April 5 deadline ends. All those who were selected in first round, but did not complete admission formalities, will be barred from participating in further rounds for 2017-18 academic session. 
 
 The entire RTE admission process has now been shifted online and the lottery is conducted using special software at the education department head office in Pune. While entire state’s admission process is online, dates for conducting lottery and completing admission process varies in each district according to the local requirements.
 
