Nagpur: People at Shivaji Chowk at Besa on Wednesday had to witness a shocking sight when an elderly man was dragged to the centre of the intersecting roads by two others, doused with kerosene and set on fire. As the two culprits fled, local residents rushed to put out the fire and wrap the victim with a flannel before alerting police. The onlookers were further surprised upon learning the victim was father of one of the two who had set him on fire.  Rajendra Jichkar, 56, who sustained 45% burn injuries, was set on fire by his son Chandrashekhar and latter’s friend Nitin Waghade following a verbal duel. It is learnt Chandrashekhar was upset as father is keen to divorce his mother. Rajendra had already served two notices to his wife who is a LIC agent. Police sources said that Chandrashekhar’s mother was Rajendra’s second wife. There had been a prolonged dispute between Rajendra and his wife. Rajendra is a farmer while Chandrashekhar earns livelihood as a painter. It is learnt Rajendra, a native of Warud in Amravati district, had come to city to meet his son who stayed at Besa. Rajendra is learnt to have tried to convince his son seeking his support in his decision to divorce his wife. The decision for legal separation with mother is learnt to have left Chandrashekhar disappointed. As the argument turned heated, Rajendra wanted to leave for native place and that was not liked by Chandrashekhar. The father-son duo had a scuffle over it too. As Rajendra tried to walk out, he was followed by Chandrashekhar who took his friend Waghode also along.  Chandrashekhar and Waghode soon held Rajendra and dragged him to the main square at Besa where they set him on fire and fled. Rajendra ran for a short distance engulfed in flames before collapsing. Ram Bhendare, a local vegetable vendor at Shivaji Chowk, played a key role in saving Rajendra. “I splashed water on the victim before wrapping him with a flannel borrowed from a family living nearby. The cops later rushed him to hospital,” he said. Hudkeshwar police, who have now launched a search for Chandrashekhar and Waghode, have slapped them with attempt to murder charge.