NEW DELHI: The government is likely to spend its last two years of the current term focusing on burnishing PM Modi’s pro-poor appeal while ensuring effective implementation of its initiatives to reap benefits in the 2019  .
 
  The years are crucial for the   as it seeks to widen its areas of winnability to make up for possible erosion in the north and west, where its electoral performance hit an all-time peak in 2014. Additionally, it will have to demonstrate nimble-footedness in stitching alliances while keeping an eye on possible alliances in the opposition camp. On the governance front, there is need to ensure a seamless transition to the GST regime and better-targeted delivery of welfare entitlements under the Aadhaar-enabled platform.
  
  Internal security appears to be a particularly challenging area at present, given the volatile situation in Jammu & Kashmir and the Maoists in strongholds of left-wing extremism. The Modi government would do well to ward off the temptation to present a populist budget in 2018, which will be the last full-fledged budget in its current term, ahead of the next general election.
  
  The UPA government had resorted to the populist farm loan waiver scheme in 2008 and reaped dividends in the 2009   election. Given that the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh has announced a farm loan waiver, pressure is mounting on the party in Maharashtra to go in for a similar measure while farmers in Tamil Nadu too are clamouring for relief.
  
  The Modi dispensation resisted the populist temptation in Budget 2017-18, following the demonetisation drive that caused some inconvenience to people late last year and early this year and this gives some hope on this count. On the international front, the surge in protectionism in the US and its consequences on H-1B visa holders and the Indian IT Industry, which is one of the biggest contributors to India’s service dominated economy, need to be tackled carefully.
  
  Especially so, given the fact that Modi has created an expanding constituency for himself and the BJP among the Indian diaspora abroad that contributed to his positive perception back home in the country.
  
  Tackling Pakistan sponsored terrorist strikes and ceasefire violations, which seem to have gained frequency over the past year, remains another challenging issue. With Pakistan enjoying the support of China, which has expressed its displeasure over the government’s firm stance over facilitating Dalai Lama’s visit to Arunachal Pradesh, the Modi government has a diplomatic challenge on its plate to contain any situation that could create domestic political embarrassment. At a time when Modi’s popularity is riding high, the challenge for him is to maintain the electoral approvals in the run-up to the   Lok Sabha election.
  
  Starting with the assembly elections in Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh later this year, the BJP has its task cut out in the bigger states where polls are due in 2018 – Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh. BJP can ill afford to suffer massive electoral setbacks in the party-ruled Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh, states where party leaders confide they are battling anti-incumbency. Though the faction-ridden Congress, its main challenger in these three states, provides some solace, the BJP and Modi personally will have to be attentive towards elections to these states ahead of the next general election.
  
  More than anything else, the BJP will rely on Modi’s charisma in the run-up to the 2019 Lok Sabha election, just as it did in the past three years. The mantra for the BJP, then, is to continue to cash in on Modi’s appeal, a task that the government as well as the party under Amit Shah are sure to focus on in the next two years. 
