INDORE: The  ,  ,  , college students, retired officials, businessmen, media persons, doctors, engineers, sports persons and other Indoreans will be busy teaching and interacting with   of the city. 

  As on Saturday “Mil Banche MP” (Let MP read together) programme initiated by tribal development department and state school education under the direction of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan will be held at a total of 1705 primary and middle government schools in Indore district. 
 
 Collector P Narahari will either share his reading interests with students of Government School, Aranya Nagar or Government School, DRP line in between 10am and 2 pm. He will take one period and will try to develop reading interest among the students. 
 
 While Mayor Malini Gaud will teach the students at Government Attri Devi School, divisional commissioner Sanjay Dubey, who initiated a similar campaign called Vidhyadaan in Indore, will teach Government School, Musakhedi students.
 
 For Dubey it will be more of a routine class since he teaches at this same school every week under Vidhyadaan. “I teach there every week so it’s nothing new for me. I will teach mathematics if I get to teach 8th or 5th standard students else I will take up some chapter from their text books. I will focus on making it an interactive session rather than a regular teaching period,” said Dubey. 
 
 Joint director, education department, OL Mandloi will be teaching at Government School, Aranya Nagar and has decided to hear from the students about their interests. 
 
 “I have not decided any topic or book for this session rather I would like to hear from the children about their interest and their favorite topics or books. Though I wanted to go at some government school in rural area, but moving out of the city wasn’t possible,” said Mandloi. 
 
 District planning coordinator Akshay Singh Rathore will be teaching at Government School, Nipania, who wishes to tell the government school kids that they are no less than any other private school kids. 
 
 “Students should know that they can reach anywhere they want to. Studying at government schools should not be a disgrace for them. Various government officials have studied in government schools so they should know this fact,” said Rathore. 
 
