GURUGRAM: A retired armyman,   (50), was shot dead by his neighbour on the plot behind Subhash’s house in Badshapur on Saturday morning.

 It was drizzling around 8.30am on Saturday when Subhash had gone down the alley behind his house to his plot of land. 
 
 A part of the plot is a stable for his buffaloes while the other part has a two-storey tenement with small houses rented out to tenants.
 
 After tending to the buffaloes, he came out to look at the electricity meter reading on the ground floor of the tenement when a neighbour, Bijender (35), came there and opened fire at Subhash. 
 
 Subhash’s wife said she saw Bijender fleeing after shooting at Subhash. 
 
 During the shooting, Hari Prakash, one of the tenants, opened his door and shut it immediately when a bullet whizzed past him. When he opened the door again, Hari Prakash saw a man in a brown jacket fleeing the spot.
 
 Subhash was taken to a private hospital nearby, where he was declared brought dead. 
 
 His son,  , filed a complaint against Bijender, lives a few houses away from Subhash’s, on Darbarpur road in Badshapur.
 
 Subhash, a retired jawan, was religious person, according to Hari Prakash, who was one of the witnesses who gave testimony to the police.
 
 According to SHO Arvind Kumar of Badshapur police station, the apparent motive behind the murder was bizarre. “What we have gathered so far is that Bijender, who was also a religious person and used to perform puja, thought that Subhash had prayed that he dies in an accident,” Kumar said after interrogating the brother and father of the accused who were picked up from their home. 
 
 Neighbours said Bijender was mentally unstable.
 
 Subhash had suffered five bullet injuries and Bijender had allegedly fired seven to eight shots are him.
 
 One of Subhash’s tenants said he had heard a loud explosion which scared everyone in the neighbourhood and no one opened their door. 
 
 Neighbours said Subhash was a good man and minded his own business. 
 
 One elderly neighbour, who had known Subhash for many years, said the incident has brought a bad name to the village. 
 
 
