Greater Noida: Celebrations turned into mourning in Dudera village on Saturday night as two persons attending a wedding procession died while three others received serious burn injuries when a van carrying the members of a music band hit a low-hanging 11 kV wire. A case of death due to negligence has been filed against the officials of electricity department.

 Nearly 150 people have arrived from Faridabad to Jewar’s Dudera village at around 10pm on Saturday to participate in the marriage procession, said former village headman Hari Dutt Sharma. “The groom was getting married to one Ramcharan’s granddaughter,” Sharma said.
 
 As the van, a Tata 407, hit a low-hanging high-tension wire, the driver tried to speed away, said the residents. This led to uprooting of the electricity pole and the live wire fell on revelers on the truck. Due to the loud music, the truck driver did not notice the falling of live wire, eyewitnesses recalled. The high-tension wire injured five persons.
 
 Following the accident, locals immediately informed the electricity department and the power supply was snapped. Santosh, a reveler, died on the spot, while four other members of the DJ band – Sheelu (28), Mohit (19), Sukhveer (35) and Nandu (40) – were rushed to Kailash Hospital in Jewar. 
 
 Mohit and Nandu were later rushed to a hospital in Delhi where Nandu expired on the way.
 
 Residents claimed the height of the wire was below the prescribed standard of 5.8 metre. However, Mahendra Pal Sharma, engineer, electricity department, Jewar denied the claim saying that the prescribed standards were followed.
 
 After the accident, a team of officials from the electricity department also reached the spot for repairs.
 
 Dr Ashi Attri, resident medical officer, Kailash Hospital, Jewar, said that Santosh, a resident of Faridabad, was brought dead in hospital.
 
 “Mohit and Nandu received serious burn injuries. We referred them to a Delhi hospital where Nandu died on the way. Mohit is being treated at Kailash Hospital, Noida as Delhi hospital did not admit him due to unavailability of bed,” she said. Sheelu is undergoing treatment in ICU, while Sukhveer was later shifted to general ward after his condition improved.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Sukhveer recalled the accident. “There was loud music and a number of people in the truck. I was in the front. Suddenly the electricity pole got uprooted and wire fell on us. I got electrocuted and fainted. I do not know what happened after that. When I gained consciousness, I found myself on the hospital bed,” he said. He received burn injuries on his right leg and shoulder.
 
 Jewar MLA Thakur Dhirendra Singh also reached the accident spot on Sunday and interacted with locals. The Jewar police initially had not registered an FIR in the case saying they had not got any written complaint, locals said. However, Jewar MLA directed police to register a case and investigate the matter. Singh met the injured victims in the hospital and assured help.
 
 “I am trying to meet the kin of deceased to extend all possible help. It seems the incident took place due to negligence of electricity department officials. They must be held responsible for the deaths,” he said.
 
 Based on the complaints of a local, Ram Gopal, an FIR for negligent conduct with respect to machinery, causing grievous hurt, and death due to negligence was registered on Sunday under sections 287, 338 and 304 (A) of IPC against unnamed officials of electricity department. 
 
 
