NEW DELHI: While border disputes with China are not unusual, the   flare-up has seen the Dragon adopt an unusually aggressive stance with the public articulation of its viewpoint, feels the government.

 In a briefing to the parliamentary standing committee on external affairs, foreign secretary   covered various dimensions of the Doklam standoff but asserted that the two countries were engaged diplomatically. According to some members who attended the meeting, Jaishankar said efforts were on to defuse the tension diplomatically. Twenty MPs in the panel, headed by Congress member Shashi Tharoor, were part of the discussions. The briefing was sought by the standing committee with the idea that MPs acquaint themselves with the situation on the border and know how the government perceived the flare-up.
 
 Besides Tharoor, Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi and Amar Singh are learnt to have asked sharp questions. Rahul reportedly wanted to know if China’s aggression was aimed at browbeating Bhutan, a close ally of India. He also asked about the stance of India’s traditional partners like Iran, Russia and Turkey, and if there was a sense that they were “distancing themselves from the issue”. Iran was recently in the news for raking up the Kashmir issue.
 
 Interestingly, CPM’s Mohd Salim brought up   & Kashmir CM Mehbooba Mufti’s statement that China had broken from the past to talk about the Kashmir issue, and West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee’s allegation that China had a hand in the ongoing Darjeeling agitation.
 
 The top diplomat skirted the query by looking towards a Trinamool MP and saying that such statements could complicate matters. He is also learnt to have spoken about how ‘noholds-barred’ discussions were not in the interest of resolving disputes. The government replied in the affirmative when asked if Bhutan had sought help and was cooperating, it was learnt. An MP asked why relations with China had dipped after being seen as improving over the last few years.
 
 
