JODHPUR: With a view to bring back the grandeur of the   of the state, the Marwari horse, which is rated best among the equines for its elegance,  , a large number of horse breeders,   and horse lover equestrians will converge in Jodhpur in a three-day Marwar horse show. The event will be inaugurated by the   Prabhu Lal Saini on Friday.

 About 150 pure-bred   from all over the country are expected to exhibit their gait and traits to the visitors and participants in this show which is aimed at re-establishment of the lost glory of this breed aboriginal to this land of warriors.
 
 The show will have various competitions as well as equine dance and sport events like tent pegging, vaulting, obstacles ride and many more to overwhlem the visitors. 
 
 Secretary of the All India Marwari Horse Society Col. Umaid Singh Rathore said that this show was an attempt towards bringing back the Marwari horse from its vanished grandeur and re-establish the breed by promoting and motivating more and more breeders and stud farm owners.
 
 “This is why we opened a stud book in 2006 under the helm of Marwari Horse Stud-Book Registration Society for making a pedigree of the Marwari horse and establish the breed,” said Rathore adding that this was one of its kind show where only Marwari horses are allowed to participate. 
 
 The book has so far close to 1,200 pure-bred Marwari horses registered and this show is the platform to present these horses from all over the country on a platform, where the owners, breeders and farm owners assemble and share their knowledge and understanding among one another.
 
 Referring to the stud book, he said that the initiative has proven a milestone in classification of the breed and development of its pedigree, where we start from the first registered horse and then follow it up through its progeny by way of a pass-port, containing all the details right from the beginning of the family. 
 
 Joint secretary of the society Mahesh Karan Singh said that the efforts have paid off both in terms of spurt in number of horses and its price in the market.
 
 “When the show was rolled out in 2014, first, there were only about 70 horses had participated. But the number steadily recorded a spurt and today, it has become just double,” he said.
 
 “The breeders have found a platform and the society has succeeded in triggering a global interest in the breed because of which the prices of the Marwari horse has rocketed and so have the buyers,” said Singh.
 
 Many those, who had given up breeding of horse, have also started breeding them and because of this, the number of Marwari horse has also risen in the country and they are not disappointed given the spike in the demand of this cavalry horse in commercial, religious and cultural events.
 
 
