Hyderabad: The Telangana government’s latest move to revise the crucial Eco-Sensitive Zone (ESZ) of the Kasu Brahmananda Reddy (KBR) National Park to zero metres -- from the previously proposed 25-35 metres -- has attracted strong reactions from city environmentalists. Terming it as “ridiculous”, they said that the proposal, if given the go-ahead by the Union ministry, will ultimately kill the iconic park.

 KBR Park has been caught in the midst of a crisis since 2015, when the state first unveiled its Strategic Road Development Plan ( ). Over 3,000 trees around the park were identified for felling. 
 
 “I have no words to express my anguish. What the authorities have proposed is criminal. It only shows that they have no regard for the environment and are willing to bulldoze it in the name of development,” said well-known environmentalist, Capt J Rama Rao, who has been vehemently opposing the SRDP since the beginning. 
 
 While the government, in its letter, has tried to draw parallels between KBR and the Guindy National Park in Chennai, the green brigade clearly isn’t amused. “Development around Guindy started 20-25 years ago, much before the ESZ rule came into being. Only because the already constructed structures could not be pulled down did authorities agree to reduce its ESZ to zero,” said a senior environmentalist from Tamil Nadu. “You can’t change ESZ to accommodate a new development. That’s unlawful,” he said.
 
 Environmentalist Sunita Narain said, “Though I cannot comment on the KBR issue per say, we need to understand that for some reason the MoEF has fixed ESZs around national parks and wildlife sanctuaries. If these zones were so irrelevant, then why would they have such a rule in the first place? They could just do away with them altogether.”
 
 Reactions of members from citizen’s collective Hyderabad Rising, that’s fighting a pitched battle over the issue, were equally harsh. “Zero ESZ is like telling us that we will not touch your house but will pull down the entire compound wall around it,” a member of the group said, lashing out at the government for its complete disregard for the city’s fast deteriorating green health. Like hundreds of other Hyderabadis who are part of the ongoing ‘Save KBR movement’, members of this group are now pinning their hopes on the National Green Tribunal that’s yet to deliver its verdict on the KBR Park-SRDP case.
 
 “If the government really thinks the park doesn’t need an ESZ and it should be fixed at zero, let them first establish – through hard facts -- that there’s nothing in the park that needs to be protected. If this revision, they say, is being done in public interest, then why did they earlier propose to fix the ESZ at 25-35 metres?” asked Anant Maringanti, executive director, Hyderabad Urban Lab.
 
 
