Not sure whom to vote for in the  ? Fret not. Just log on to the municipal corporation   and watch   making a fervent pitch about themselves in two-minute  . Still not satisfied? Check out the proposed area development plans prepared by candidates, if they win the election. 

 These are some of the plans drawn up for the first time by the state election commission (EC) to ensure that voters have a fair idea about candidates seeking election. Ten municipal corporations in the state, including Mumbai and Pune, will go to the polls in February. 
 
 Candidates will not be able to upload the videos on the civic body website on their own; the videos will be screened by the EC and its officials before they are uploaded. 
 
 But that’s not all. Flex boards containing summaries of affidavits filed by candidates—total immovable and movable assets and whether any criminal cases are pending against them—will be put up at the polling centres and also published in newspapers. The state EC has also prepared an additional form titled ‘Vision statement for your area’ where a candidate has to outline an area development plan if he/she is elected. This form will also be part of the affidavit.
 
 “We will announce the poll dates in the first fortnight of January. The election process will be completed by February, ahead of the board exams,” J S Sahariya, state election commissioner told TOI on Wednesday.
 
 Apart from 10 municipal corporations, 26 zilla parishads will also go to the polls in the coming month. 
 
 The EC is eager to hold the elections on the same date to bring down poll-related expenses. “We want to reduce expenses, but there should be enough staff and machinery to ensure that both elections are held at the same time. It was yet to be decided whether the elections will be held consecutively or on the same day,” Sahariya said.
 
 The state EC has also provided facilities for online filling up of nomination forms. Candidates would have to take a printout of these forms and submit them to the respective returning officers. This has been tried and tested in the council elections, which saw fewer form rejections than the previous polls, said Sahariya.
 
 
