PANAJI: The state government has decided to install a GPS-based system on the ‘108   services’ in Goa by the end of May. A Imobile-based   will also be launched to track ambulances. Finally, the authorities have decided to adopt a hospital management system at Goa Medical College ( ) and hospital, Bambolim, and at other government hospitals.

 In pursuit of efficiency, the state health minister, Vishwajit Rane transferred Lower division clerks and Upper division clerks from GMC. This staff is responsible for assigning appointments, and there have been allegations of clerks demanding money to give appointments. 
 
 “Every three months there would be a reshuffling of the staff,” Rane said, while speaking to mediapersons.
 
 On the software to be installed to track the ambulances, Rane said it will help pinpoint the exact location of ambulances, their speed and also indicate hospitals in the vicinity. “Each and every detail would be available at the head office of the   service,” Rane said.
 
 A mobile-based application will help any person track ambulance movements, get information of type of ambulance and details of the nearest hospitals. “It will take another month to launch the app,” Rane said.
 
 Rane said that the chief minister, Manohar   has sanctioned funds to upgrade the 108 ambulance services in Goa. “Now we are working to streamline the 108 services in the state,” he said.
 
 Currently, there are 40 ambulances operating in Goa, and 10 new vehicles will be replaced in the ambulance fleet. Another six will be added under national rural health mission. “We have to maintain the fleet of 40 ambulances in the state,” Rane said.
 
 He also said that Parrikar had directed him to adopt the hospital management system. “We are looking for agencies. We will see who has vast experience,” he said, and that the system with not be restricted to GMC itself, but would be installed at district hospitals and primary health centers. “This system will put accountability in place, and everything would be online,” he said.
 
 Currently, there are over 1,500 patients visiting government hospitals daily.
 
