BATHINDA: The   has fixed rates of   related to electioneering in Punjab.
Some of these articles are quite common in the  , with parties using these quite often, such as   (cap) and siropa (robe of honour).
 
 Punjab chief electoral officer (CEO) has fixed the rates of 142 items used during electioneering by political parties and individual candidates. These range from Rs 3 to Rs 1,50,000.
 
 Punjab CEO V K Singh said, “Rates of various items used in electioneering have been fixed and copies have been sent to district electoral officers to make it applicable.“ According to the list provided by the office of the CEO to district electoral officers, rate of the paper cap has been fixed at Rs 5 per piece. Rate of the cap with printing on half side has been fixed at Rs 25 per piece. The cap is synonymous with Aam Aadmi Party (AAP).
 
 Rates of T-shirt with sleeves and without sleeves have been fixed at Rs 60 and Rs 50 per piece respectively . Wearing T-shirts with AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal's photos is a common practice among party volunteers and supporters.
 
 The rate of siropa has been fixed at Rs 90 per piece and a garland will now cost Rs 15 per piece. The practice of offering siropa is common in Shiromani Akali Dal (Badal).
 
 The price of hiring a local singer for one occasion has be en fixed at Rs 20,000 to Rs 35,000.The rate for hiring renowned singers for each performance has been fixed at Rs 1,50,000 or higher. The price of hiring a dhadhi jatha (ballad singers) has been fixed at Rs 3,100 per programme. Dhadis are common at programmes of both SAD and  .
 
 A cup of tea will cost Rs 6 and the rate of a plastic chair will be Rs 8 per piece. “The topi is the hallmark of AAP and we are not perturbed over fixing of the rate. Our activists wear it whenever needed to ensure their distinct identity,“ said AAP candidate from Kotkapura, Kultar Singh Sandhwan.
 
 “We will abide by the directions of the election commission regarding fixing of rates of various items used during electioneering,“ said SAD Bathinda (Urban) MLA Sarup Chand Singla.
 
