BHOPAL:   and his wife   on Wednesday appeared before the court of   to record their statements in the defamation case filed by them against leader of opposition in  . The couple has sought a compensation of Rs 1 crore.

 In his statement Chouhan said he is chief minister of Madhya Pradesh since November 29, 2005, and has completed 11 years and 10 months, on the post. 
 
 On May 9, 2013 when he was returning home from a tour, he received numerous calls from people informing of derogatory accusations made by leader of opposition Ajay Singh against him. When he reached home a worried Sadhna Singh told him that Singh has made many baseless allegations against him and her during a conference in Sagar.
 
 “My wife could not sleep the whole night and the news was published in the next day newspapers. She said what kind of politics is this in which false allegations are levelled. There is no point in serving in such politics. I tried to pacify her that such accusations are made in public life but I too was hurt by the allegations, he added”
 
 Such accusations against family were intolerable, he said. While we were thinking of taking legal recourse, Ajay Singh hurled barbs at us once again, said the chief minister. 
 
 “I received calls from my son who asked what kind of defamatory allegations were levelled against his mother. My friends advised me to take legal action. The statements not only defamed the reputation of my wife but were an insult to women,” he added.
 
 Ajay Singh’s counsel Sajid Ali asked around 25 questions from   Chouhan during cross examination.
 
 Sadhna Singh in her statements said, “I know Ajay Singh. 
 
 When I heard that he has levelled such allegations I was hurt. I cried but my husband pacified me. But when Ajay Singh repeated his allegations in the next conference I asked him to take legal action against Ajay Singh.”
 
 Chouhan reached the court around 11 am while Sadhna Singh reached the court around 1.30 pm. 
 
 They remained in the court till 4 pm and only went back for 30 minutes during the lunch break.
 
