BENGALURU: What began as a case of suspected appendicitis turned out to be a far more serious affliction for factory worker  , 46. A searing stomachache left him strapped to a hospital bed in his  . Thanks to an  , he's on the road to recovery. 

  Eight months ago, Venkatesh was diagnosed with a rare condition called intestinal ischemia, which occurs due to lack of oxygen supply to the intestine and causes the cells to die. By then, most of Naik's small intestine was damaged and had to be removed. 
 
 "When Venkatesh was referred to us, he didn't have an intestine. He could not ingest any food and had to be fed through total parenteral nutrition (TPN), a way of supplying nutrition by bypassing the digestive system and dripping the nutritive solution directly into a vein. However this is only a short-term measure until a transplant can be arranged," said Dr  , consultant transplant surgeon, Apollo Hospitals.
 
 Cadaver donors are preferred in case of intestine transplant as the entire length of the organ can be harvested. A cadaver donor for Venkatesh was finally found last month and the transplant was conducted at Apollo Hospitals, Bannerghatta Road. According to the hospital, intestine transplant is an uncommon procedure in India. 
 
 Doctors said prolonged dependence on TPN comes with its own set of complications as it reduces the size of the abdominal cavity, further limiting the choice of a donor. Adding to the novelty of the surgery was the fact that it was performed without creating a stoma, an opening where a loop of the intestine or a bag is connected for the purpose of excretion. "Without a stoma, the patient will be able to continue his bowel function without the discomfort of carrying a bag," Dr Gopashetty said.
 
 According to the doctor, apart from the surgery that costs between Rs 15-20 lakh, most people suffering from this condition tend to exhaust their savings on TPN that costs Rs 3,000-5,000 per day. Fortunately, Naik and his family received aid from NGOs, crowd funding platforms and Apollo itself.
 
  Kin express gratitude 
 
  Venkatesh was hospitalized for nearly five months. His illness has been hard on his wife and 19-year-old son. Barely able to contain his tears, his son Vinay thanked the nearly 40-member team of doctors and nurses who nursed him back to health. 
 
 "Doctors first told us his intestine was rotten and he only had 10% chance of survival. TPN would cost us nearly Rs 10,000 for three days. We couldn't have done it for months. Life has been very difficult for my mother and me. I postponed my studies for a year because my father was sick. I will write CET and start college in June," said Vinay.
 
