KOLKATA:  's demonetisation cast its shadow over the state budget presented by finance minister   on Friday as the   government strove at the macro level to limit its damage on the state's growth and, at the micro level, offered sops to industries and sectors that it perceives to be in the doldrums following the  .

 The finance minister strained the coffers to offer balm to each of the affected sectors and groups - real estate, tea gardens, agriculture, MSME, handicrafts and migratory labour (zari workers). “Due to the tsunami of demonetisation, lives of lakhs of unorganized workers in small and micro business and dreams of farmers now lie shattered,“ Mitra said.
 
 In real terms though, the effect of demonetisation has been less severe than what the chief minister had feared. While it is true that the the state's tax mobilisation has registered a slump, at Rs 2,447 crore, the shortfall is half of what the CM had estimated.
 
 In his budget, Mitra opened his purse strings for the rural sector with an eye on the 2018 panchayat polls. The allocation for three key departments -panchayat and rural development, water resources (minor irrigation), and health and family welfare -saw substantial hikes when all other departments received moderate raises of around 10%. Taking a cue from the direct cash-trans fer model of the Modi government, the finance minister made a targeted intervention in the rural sector by increasing salaries of   workers and honorariums for Asha workers by Rs 500 a month, thus creating 2.3 lakh direct beneficiaries.
 
 Mitra's generosity comes within days of the CM announcing bounties for all members of the three-tier panchayat system.
 
 To mitigate the sufferings of farmers who had faced difficulties in procuring fertilisers and seeds due to lack of co-operative credit after demonetisation, the finance minister announced a special fund of Rs 100 crore. For migrant labourers (construction, zari and je wellery workers), who returned home after losing their jobs, Mitra provided a one-time grant of Rs 50,000 each.
 
 The finance minister didn't lose sight of the salaried middle class either. To match the Centre's sops to the real estate sector, the finance minister reduced the stamp duty on sale agreement to 2% from the existing 5%-7%.“In order to get the benefit of the reduced rate, the registration has to be done within a period of four years from the date of agreement on payment of the balance stamp duty,“ Mitra said.
 
 He also gave relief to small manufacturers with annual turnover of less than Rs 50 lakh by bringing them under the Composition Scheme. Earlier, this was applicable to traders under same turnover bracket. “These manufacturers will have to pay only a nominal tax. A total of 33,000 small manufacturers will benefit from this measure,“ Mitra said. This apart, the finance minister extended the exemption on cess payment by tea gardens for another year up to March 31, 2018 and reduced stamp duty rate on a few stock exchange transactions.
 
 Making room for the sops wasn't easy for Mitra particularly when the state's revenue deficit is again on the rise. He tried his best to marry the political imperatives with economic fundamentals banking on more revenues after the GST rollout. As of now, the state's total revenue -state's own tax and non-tax earnings plus the shares of central tax and duties and grants -doesn't match up to the State Plan pegged at Rs 64,733 crore for 201718. It leaves a deficit of Rs 28,390 crore that the finance minister will have to meet through borrowings. With a projected debt burden of Rs 36,6085.24 crore and   liabilities of anything between Rs 17,000-35,000 crore, the finance minister not only has to shed expenditure but explore new areas to increase the tax base.
 
