GURUGRAM:   was in the school   for just three minutes before he was murdered last Friday, the police   has found.

 “Our investigation reveals the boy (a Class 2 student) entered the washroom three minutes before his  . The entire incident (from the time school bus conductor Ashok Kumar entered the washroom) to the time he left the toilet happened only in 10 minutes,” police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar said on Thursday.
 
 Kumar, according to the police, slit Pradhyumn’s throat in the washroom after a failed attempt to sexually assault the boy.
 
 The police chief did not give any more details but police sources said the   is almost ready and could be filed as early as Saturday. Khirwar had promised the chargesheet in seven days last Saturday. Haryana will also set up a fast-track court for the trial. 
 
 The chargesheet, sources said, will detail the sequence and timeline of events on the day of the murder of Pradhyumn on the campus of  , copies of CCTV footage, autopsy report, fingerprint details on the murder weapon, pictures of the crime scene, statements of two students who are witnesses in the case and the ‘confession statement’ of the accused. Test reports from the Central Forensic Science Laboratory in Madhubani are awaited.
 
 The SIT on Thursday detained school gardener Harpal Singh for a few hours to question him. Sports teachers Tarun Dutta and Naveen Raghav were also called for questioning and their statements recorded. There was speculation through the day that Harpal would be arrested but police said he was called only for questioning.
 
 “We are questioning many people again and again to ensure no loopholes in chargesheet. He was not arrested in fact no further arrests have been made so far but there might be some in case of school’s negligence,” added Khirwar.
 
 Amid speculation that a handover of the case to the CBI was imminent, police sources said their only focus was on building a watertight case. The SIT is operating from the school compound and all the questioning was done there. A police team, meanwhile, took Ryan’s head of North India operations Francis Thomas to Mumbai. Thomas is among two Ryan officials arrested so far, the other being HR head Jayesh Thomas, for lapses, under Section 75 of the Juvenile Justice Act. Another police team is in Kerala to scrutinise the finances of Francis Thomas. 
 
 A video clip, meanwhile, surfaced in which Pradhyumn is being carried into Artemis hospital in which the school’s now suspended principal Neerja Batra and junior section teacher-in-charge Anju Dudeja is also seen.
 
 The child was brought to Artemis hospital, where he was declared dead at 8.38 am on Friday. The ambulance, which was coming from Life Care hospital where Pradhyumn was taken first, is seen arriving at the porch of Artemis at 8.37am.
 
 (With inputs from Gayas Eapen)
 
 
