 have arrested a 40- year- old   for allegedly cheating on her wife and threatening to kill her with a revolver. He had already been married before, and had two kids with his first wife before marrying the complainant.

 The accused has been identified as  , a resident of Wadgaon Sheri. His 24-year-old wife has filed a complaint of rape and cheating. Yerwada police have booked Dhiwar under sections 376, 420, 494, 323, 504, 506 and 506 (2) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). He was produced before the court on Thursday.
 
 According to the complainant, she got married to Dhiwar in 2013 and they lived together at Wadgaon Sheri. One day, she noticed that her husband was getting frequent calls from a lady late into the night. When she asked him about it, Dhiwar threatened her with a revolver. She also stated in her complaint that she was raped by her husband.
 
 Dhiwar had reportedly not disclosed the fact that he was already married to the complainant, and that he had two children. When the complainant came to know about his first marriage, Dhiwar even threatened to upload their personal videos on the social media. He then beat her up badly, so much so that she got an ear injury from the assault.
 
  Vaman Koli demanded seven days’ police custody for the accused. “The accused is a criminal on record and it is necessary to investigate about the revolver he used to threat her current wife. It is also necessary to find out whether he has committed any offences by using the weapon,” Koli said, adding that the court has remanded him in three days’ police custody.
 
 Inspector (crime) Ashok Kadam of Yerwada police station told Pune Mirror, “The accused is a labour contractor and a criminal on record and three offences have been registered against him, including the offence of extortion. He has a good financial background and considerable political clout. We have arrested him and remanded him in police custody. Meanwhile, the investigation regarding the revolver is on.”
 
 
 
 
  — Inspector Ashok Kadam, Yerwada PS
 
