LUCKNOW: Results of the   sprung surprises one too many as   emerged cleanest in   and Lucknow’s rank fell 10 times. Prime Minister’s parliamentary constituency Varanasi,   and Jhansi emerged first, second and third   of UP, respectively. 

 Varanasi secured 32nd rank, though it had been among the 10 worst cities of the country as per the 2016 rankings. State capital   fell much below its earlier rank, from 28th to 269th. State’s industrial capital, Kanpur, slipped from its earlier rank of 45 to 175, but managed to score better rank than the state capital with a vast difference. The industrial city has improved its ranking in Swachh Survekshan-2017 conducted by Union ministry of urban development and ranked 175th in India among 434 cities. 
 
 In 2014-15, Kanpur was on 241st position. Apart from internal improvement, Kanpur has surpassed even Lucknow and is way above big cities like Ghaziabad which was on 351st place in the list. Among big cities like Agra, Varanasi and Allahabad which are close competitors of Kanpur, except Varanasi which had bagged 32nd position, Kanpur was way ahead.
 
 Jhansi was a surprise entry in the race scoring 166th rank in the country and assessed as the third cleanest city in the state, besides being the fastest moving in the northern zone.
 
 Chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s constituency Gorakhpur is at 314th position, while Gonda fared worst with 434th rank, making it the dirtiest city of India.
 
 Allahabad’s ranking ahead of state capital Lucknow notwithstanding, the city’s performance in the Swachh Survekshan 2017 has left citizens wondering about the effectiveness of municipal agencies in maintaining cleanliness. The Sangam city ranked 247th among 434 cities in the survey, an improvement from its last year’s ranking of 383, which also makes it the seventh cleanest in Uttar Pradesh.
 
 In the survey, 600 points out of 2000 were for citizen’s feedback. The findings of the survey were released recently by Union urban development minister Venkaiah Naidu and it aimed to score cities on the basis of parameters like making areas open defecation-free, improvement in door-to-door garbage collection facilities, and processing and disposal of solid waste.
 
 The twin towns Faizabad/Ayodhya ranked 383rd in cleanliness, i.e. 51st from the bottom of the list. The temple town has no working sewage treatment plant, and industrial and domestic wastes are both flown directly into the Saryu river through many drains.
 
 The maximum population of the district including of the twin cities depends on Saryu for drinking water as well as irrigation. A sewage treatment plant established near Kashi Ram colony of Ayodhya a few years back is still in “testing mode”. A functionary told TOI, “We are testing the plant but since its establishment more than five years, it has not reached working condition.”
 
 
