CHENNAI: In what could be seen as a major boost to Centre-state ties, the   government on Friday extended financial support to the strained   government. The   has granted in-principle approval for Rs 3,000 crore loan to improve power infrastructure in the cyclone Vardah-affected Chennai, huge allocation of power from Kudankulam nuclear power plants and financial help for tuna fishing. Union finance minister   is said to have promised appointment of a nodal officer to look into TN’s demands and monitor the release of pending dues of Central share.

 The assurance was given to a TN delegation of ministers and senior bureaucrats, which reached New Delhi a day after the state presented its maiden budget breaching the fiscal deficit norms. Ministers D Jayakumar (finance), C Vijayabaskar (health) and P Thangamani (electricity), and officials prevailed upon Union ministers Jaitely,   and Piyush Goyal to extend “necessary assistance” to the long pending demands of the state. The delegation is content with the “positive approach” of the Centre towards  , which has been facing the wrath of public over lack of governance.
 
 While the state sought grants, Goyal has assured a soft loan for power infrastructure. Extended areas of Chennai need cyclone proofing. Transmission lines also need at least one underground cable so that the city does not plunge into darkness during cyclone. “The Centre is also positive about allocating 85% of Kudankulam 3 and 4 units, and finalising bids early with an option for using domestic coal to bring down the cost of power,” said a government source. If TN’s request is acceded to, the state would be assured of 1700MW from Kudankulam units. 
 
 Finance minister Jayakumar said the meeting with the external affairs minister has helped realize the sanction in no time. “Sushma promised to grant Rs 250 crore to the state for tuna fishing scheme for three years. The state has to shell out a matching grant to help fishermen convert mechanized trawlers to deep sea tuna long liners. We are confident of getting continued support from Delhi,” the minister told TOI. The previous Jayalalithaa regime had repeatedly sought the help of Centre to reduce the pressure of bottom trawling boats in Palk Bay.
 
 The livelihood issues of the fishermen in the backdrop of the recent firing on Indian fishermen also prominently figured in the meeting. TN demanded early release of 136 mechanized boats, which have been under prolonged detention in Lanka. Construction of fishing harbours at Poompuhar, Colachel, Thengapattinam and   also figured in the talks. “The Centre assured safe fishing in the traditional waters with no firing from across the maritime border, and to take steps to end the harassment of fishermen at the hands of  ,” Jayakumar said.
 
