MUMBAI: Even as education minister   assured the house that   would release its exam results by the close of this month and assessment is going on in full swing, there is a question mark over who really is evaluating the papers.

 Sources said that some nonteaching staff members were also roped in to evaluate answer scripts. For instance, the assistant director (academics) of the Institute of Open and Distance Learning, who is not a teaching staff, has been correcting papers. And not at any college, but at the main CAP centre in the exam house at Mumbai University's Kalina campus.
 
 Appointed in 1998, Sanjay   has been handling the administrative side of academics at IDOL, like selecting contact centres where faceto-face lectures can be held, the faculty who would hold lectures, set timetable, and the like.
 
 IDOL head   said she had no clue who was going for assessment from her school. Ratnaparkhi himself acknowledged that he isn't a faculty. “I don't teach, but I hold workshops for those who design study material for IDOL.Currently , the university is in a crisis. So they sent me a mail asking me if I would assess papers and I agreed.“
 
 There are three categories of staff members in IDOL: Teaching, academic and administrative. Ratnaparkhi was appointed as an academic staff. “This means, he's neither a teacher, nor an administrative staffer. He's an in-between person. But he cannot teach or assess papers,“ said a former dean.
 
 The university provided a login name and password for him. He said he has been assessing papers only since two days.When asked if he had been assessing papers of state politics, as he had mentioned in the exam log book at the entry point, he replied in the positive. He has an MA in political science.
 
 Controller of examinations   said it was the responsibly of the board of studies and the deans to draw up names of evaluators. “I will look into this matter and get back to you tomorrow,“ he added.
 
 TOI had written that some faculty members had noticed that checks at the CAP (centralized assessment process) centres' entry points are casual and some proxies are turning up to evaluate answer books. In fact, discussions and messages have gone viral on teachers' messaging groups and several of them said their principals have often nudged them to send PhD stu dents if they cannot go.
 
 “It is observed that some teachers are giving their usernames and passwords to others,“ faculty members wrote to the governor. Under the banner of Citizen for Sanctity in Educational System, faculty have informed the governor that no one checks the authorization for as sessment letter issued by the college.The forum of teachers said a university officer must check the authorization letter, the faculty's I-card and the mobile on which the message with the password is sent. “Instead, there is just one person from the company at the door and he writes the name of the assessor.“
 
