KOLKATA: His   profile says he is a foreign service officer in the   while pursuing PhD in political science at New York University. A resident of San Diego, California, he loves expensive cars and travels the world. In reality, he is jobless, has Facebook accounts of his father and girlfriend, both dead; and that of his grandfather and friends, who are fictitious. 

 That is  , the psychopath accused of killing his girlfriend and parents, a split personality who lived the life of a rich man on the web while plotting murders to meet his ends. Das, who called himself Udayan Von Richthofen Mehra, lived a life of such intricate lies that even cops are finding it difficult to unravel the truth.
 
 In a post on March 2015, he had published a Facebook cover picture of him in a red Lamborghini, with a Paris Facebook check-in. The post read: “Every nuclear power is spending lavishly to upgrade its atomic arsenal. So, I just upgraded myself from Mercedes AMG to Lamborghini that’s why, Me “UDAYAN” taking delivery of my Lamborghini...”. According to police, he was then in Bhopal, possibly chatting with girlfriend Akansha Sharma or looking for ways to draw money from his parents’ pension account. He had killed them five years previously.
 
 The post has comments from a person named Steve Von Richthofen Mehra, who calls Das his grandson and says he is proud of his achievements. Police believe this profile of a white-skinned man wrapping his hands around Udayan’s shoulder is fake. It also has a comments from Virendra Das, Udayan’s father, who says: “drive under speed limits and wear your seatbelt”. Police say Virendra’s account, too, was managed by Udayan, who regularly posted status updates and photos on the profile (photograph of a Mercedes M Class in July 2014) suggesting he was alive long after Das had killed him.
 
 Akansha’s Facebook profile (Aakanksha Udayan Mehra) also states she works with UN and lives in Washington and has a cover picture of a man kissing a woman passionately. The photograph was updated on December 17, 2016, five months after she had been murdered. 
 
 Psychiatrists say the manner in which he handled multiple accounts and posted comments and posts on their behalf suggests he suffers from split personality and personality disorder. “He has different persona before different persons. He did this so convincingly that even those extremely close to him, like his parents or girlfriend, didn’t realise his ailment and sense the threat,” said psychiatrist Siladitya Ray.
 
 In such persons, the criminal intent is hidden and erupts at some point in life. 
 
 “Such criminals are in most cases extremely shrewd, which make it difficult to catch them,” Ray added.
 
 
