THANE: As many as 100 residents majority of them women from Digha blocked the railway   between   and Kalwa blocking trains for nearly 30 minutes on Monday afternoon to protest the sealing of their homes on   land within the jurisdiction of the   Municipal Corporation (NMMC).

 The mob was protesting against the Bombay High court order directing the civic authorities in Navi Mumbai to seal around three illegal buildings in Digha area that were constructed within the MIDC jurisdiction. The mob was initially planning to stage a protest outisde the collector’s office, but the plans reportedly were changed at the last minute and they started milling on the tracks, informed an officer.
 
 The protesters blocked trains between 1:25 to 1:55pm by squatting on the tracks resulting in delay of as many as 15 trains in both directions including the trabsaharbour services that were stranded for over 25-30 minutes. The railway officials and the police were busy removing the protestors from the tracks.
 
 “We received information about 100 women blocking the railway tracks at Thane. We rushed to the spot and removed the protesters immediately,” informed a railway police official.
 
 Being non-peak hours, the impact on services was restricted, but few commuters were left stranded in trains for nearly 30 minutes. Services resumed normalcy soon after the protesters were cleared off the tracks.
 
 “I was waiting for over 30 minutes in the train ahead of Kalwa. There was no announcement following which I decided to walk down to Kharegaon and take an auto to work at Thane,” said Uma Paradkar, a commuter. Another passenger complained he got late for a meeting as the trains were not arriving at Koparkhairane during the protest time. 
 
 Narendra Patil, Chief Public Relations Officer, Central Railway, Mumbai, said, “Due to some drive carried out in MIDC area, some 100 persons, mainly ladies, came on the tracks at km no 34/1 between Thane and Airoli and blocked the tracks. The RPF and city police reached the spot and arrested 26 outsiders including 24 women and 2 men. The arrested persons were prosecuted under sections 147 & 174 (a) of the Railway Act.
 
 Central Railway appeals to the public not to disrupt train services and inconvenience rail users.
 
 It may be recalled this is the third incident where protesters have disrupted railway services protesting demolition of their homes. Last month, slum dwellers from Dombivli blocked tracks to protest gainst demolition of illegal structures by the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation. Hundreds of people living in slums near Titwala station also staged a rail roko in January against the demolition of illegal structures by the KDMC, disrupting services between Kalyan and Kasara on the central line. 
 
 
