SHIMLA: To empower the women in rural areas by exclusively discussing the issues relating to women and children and issues concerning overall development of the panchayats,   has decided to make provision in the HP Panchayati Raj Act to organize two Mahila Gram Sabhas first on 8th March and second on first Sunday of September months every year in every  .

 Acknowledging the importance of Panchayati Raj system in rural development, Himachal Pradesh government is giving added priority in strengthening the Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs). Special emphasis has been laid on women empowerment and the state has already implemented 50 percent reservation for them.
 
 In the state 58 percent of elected   are women while others states are still striving to give a minimum of 33 percent reservation to this section.
 
 Official sources said that to ensure the attendance of officers and officials of various departments in the Gram Sabha meetings, necessary amendments have been made in HP Panchayati Raj Act, 1994. As per the amendment, the Gram Sabha meetings will be held in the month of January, April, July and October in such a manner that all panchayats are covered in a district in each of such months.
 
 To ensure that development of the panchayats is not adversely affected due to want of quorum, the quorum for general meeting of Gram Sabha has been reduced from one third to one fourth.
 
 Sources said that to implement the Panchayati Raj System in an effective manner, state government has ensured infrastructural facilities, adequate staff and frequent training to them besides facilitating the gram panchayats with modern facilities like computers enabling them to work in an efficient manner.
 
 To undertake various activities under   Panchayat Sashaktikaran Abhiyan, Rs 48.06 crore has been approved. It includes Rs 7.42 crore for renovation of 226 Panchayat Ghars, Rs 750 lakh for construction of new Panchayat Ghars. State government has released Rs.1.25 crore for th construction of   at Mashobra (Shimla), Rs 1.56 crore for the construction of 13 block level resource centres and Rs 2.50 crore each for construction of District Panchayat Resource Centers at Mandi, Solan, Hamirpur, Shimla, Kangra, Kinnaur and Bilaspur. Besides, Rs 50 lakh have been issued for development of Panchayati Raj Institution, Baijnath.
 
