BENGALURU: It's a picturesque setting -clear sky, still water and vast swathes of green. Parched till a fortnight ago, the massive   is partially filled with rainwater today. Back to its former glory , it's drawing visitors in droves.Over 30km from the heart of Bengaluru, the waterbody spans more than 1,110 acres. A manmade reservoir built in 1894 across Arkavathy river -which originates in the lap of   -to meet the drinking water needs of Bengaluru, the lake is home to various migratory birds. It was   and Jayachamarajendra Wadiyar who got it built under the supervision of Diwan Sir K Sheshadri Iyer.

 Jayamma, a senior citizen who runs a small shop on the lake bund near the Durgamba Devi temple, says it's only when the lake fills that tourists trickle in, which in turn helps her business.The temple located on the lake bund has no priest. Those who come to visit the lake usually make a halt at the temple too.
 
 It's an annual ritual for residents from neighbouring villages to throng the lake every time it has enough water. Manjunath A, a villager from Itagallapura who paid a visit on Thursday , said farmers in the vicinity can expect a good yield from their borewells if the lake fills up further.
 
 "We mainly grow ragi, vegetables, grapes and maze. Though we can't use the lake water directly, the underground water table gets recharged and our borewells get more water," says Manjunath.
 
 Govinda Raju, village panchayat member, Hesaraghatta, agrees with him. "All the borewells in the 35km radius of the lake get recharged every time it fills. It's the pride of our village," he added. However, he underlined that tourists need to exercise caution. "We keep a watch over students as it is not safe to get into the water. We will shortly have a meeting with Soladevanahalli police in this regard," said Raju.
 
 Villagers are also worried about youngsters gaining access to the lake area not from the main entrance but from the other sides.
 
 
 
 The lake, maintained by the BWSSB, draws many exotic avian species. When it is full, it attracts open water-dependent birds like the northern shoveler, northern pintail and garganey, common redshank, common greenshank, wood sandpiper, common sandpiper, black-winged stilt and little-ringed plover.
 
 According to ornithologist M B Krishna, migratory ducks can be expected to arrive at the waterbody in sometime. "The ducks breed near Arctic Circle. They travel 12,000km in search of habitat," he adds.
 
 Several eagles like short-toed snake eagle, white-eyed buzzard, lesser spotted eagle, greater spotted eagle and tawny eagle can also be spotted here. Falcons like lesser kestrel, common kestrel and red-headed falcon are known to frequent the area. Also found are Indian peafowl, cuckoos, wren-warblers, pipits, larks, drongos and bush chats.
 
 
 
 In 2013, a study conducted by a team of ornithologists and road ecologists revealed that the decline of Hesaraghatta Lake could largely be attributed to increased traffic movement within the lake area. Surprisingly, the biggest threats to the lake's ecology were those who wanted a close snapshots of birds. The report had that each vehicle chasing a bird would spend over three hours on the lake bed.
 
