The Haryana government on Friday banned   in drinks and food items after a Delhi man burnt a hole in his stomach by drinking a cocktail containing the chemical at a Gurgaon pub in April. 

 Haryana food and drugs administration department (FDA) commissioner   said any drink or food whose preparation involves the flushing or mixing of liquid nitrogen is harmful for people. He said the ban has been issued under the provisions of the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006 (Central Act 34 of 2006). The department will conduct surprise checks in restaurants and bars, especially those in Gururgram, Faridabad and Panchkula, to check the use of this liquid, which is harmful for humans.
 
 “Due to its low temperature, liquid nitrogen could be extremely damaging to body tissue, causing frostbite and cryogenic burning on contact. Moreover, if ingested, it could lead to severe internal damage, destroying tissue in the mouth and intestinal tract,” he added.
 
 The 30-year-old Delhi man had ended up in a hospital with his stomach “open like a book”. It was reported that he apparently did not wait for the chemical, that creates a white smoke, to dissipate before consuming it. After the gory episode, he underwent a surgery and was hospitalised for several days.
 
 “Anyone found using this (in drinks and food items) will face criminal proceedings under the Food Safety Act. It is said this liquid is used in high end bars and restaurants, so we are focusing only in cities like Gurugram, Faridabad and Panchkula,” said  , director general, FDA department.
 
 He confirmed that Gurugram incident was behind the decision to ban liquid nitrogen in food items. “As per expert medical opinion, any drink or food article whose preparation involves flushing or mixing of liquid nitrogen is harmful for humans,” he said.
 
 Due to its low temperature, liquid nitrogen could be extremely damaging to the body tissue, causing frostbite and cryogenic burning on contact. “Moreover, if ingested, it could lead to severe internal damage, destroying tissue in the mouth and intestinal tract,” he said.
 
 
 
 Liquid nitrogen is nitrogen in a liquid state at an extremely low temperature. It is a colorless clear liquid with a density of 0.807 g/ml at its boiling point (−195.79 °C (77 K; −320 °F). It is used in bars to quickly chill glasses, freeze ingredients or provide a   to drinks. It releases a large volume of gas as it evaporates, which could “burst the stomach” if ingested in a sufficiently large quantity.
 
 
