NEW DELHI: St Stephen’s and Jesus & Mary colleges, which carry out their own admission process, have started along with the rest of  . 

 St Stephen’s, which started online registration at 9pm on Monday, has made a change in the sports quota — 5% of the seats. The weightage given to merit in sports has increased from 65% to 70% — certificates will now get 28% of the points granted under the merit category while the same for field trials have been increased to 42% from 35%. Subsequently, the Class XII marks will get 15% weightage instead of last year’s 20%. The weightage for interview remains 15%. 
 
 There’s no change in the policy for BA and BSc honours and regular programmes. Aspirants for BSc (H) physics and chemistry, and BSc Programme with chemistry must have physics, chemistry and mathematics in Class XII. The cutoff will be decided on the aggregate of physics, chemistry and mathematics marks. 
 
 For BA (H) economics, mathematics in Class XII is a must. Similarly, for BA (H) English, an aspirant should study English in Class XII, and preference will be given to those with elective English or literature in English. At least one subject will be a language for the best-four calculation. 
 
 The application fee for each course is Rs 100, while the residence application fee is Rs 200. The sports form is for Rs 250 per trial. Online payments can be made using credit or debit cards. Applications will be considered complete only after the payment has been made.The last day to fill up the college form is June 12, same as DU. “If DU extend its last date of registration, we, too, will extend ours to keep the schedules synced,” said an official. 
 
 The cutoffs for interviews will be released on June 13, followed by the publication of interview lists the next day. Applicants will have to first fill up the centralised DU registration form, which will generate a unique number that can be used for minority college forms.
 
 Jesus & Mary College (JMC), another minority institute, also started its procedure on Monday. For honours courses, candidates can calculate the best of four with English and three other academic subjects from its list. All such subjects must have at least 70% theory component or the marks should be converted proportionately to be part of best of four.
 
 For BCom (H) and programme, and economics (H), math is a must. An advantage of 1 percentage point will be given for BCom (H) if best of four has subjects like commerce, accountancy, business studies, computer sciences or economics. For BCom programme, the advantage will be 2 percentage points.
 
 Similarly, an aspirant for economics (H) will receive a 2 percentage-point advantage if it is part of best four but they should also have at least 70% in English core and math. A similar advantage will be given for History (H) if it is part of best of four. A political science aspirant will, however, get the advantage just for studying it in Class XII. In psychology, aspirants need to score more than 85% mark in Class XII to get a 1 percentage-point advantage. 
 
 In English (H), preference will be given to humanities and science students and those with elective English. For BA Hindi (H), Hindi and English are compulsory in Class XII and a minimum mark of 63% in Hindi is necessary, while the best-four aggregate should also be at least 60%. In math, an aspirant needs to score 85% in the subject in Class XII exams and the best-four aggregate, including English and maths, should be at least 80%.
 
 (With inputs from Mohammad Ibrar)
 
 
