GURUGRAM: For the biking brotherhood and sisterhood, it doesn’t get any better than taking their machines to stunning locales. But it helps to be properly ‘geared’ up for the ride. Now, the iconic  , in partnership with Wieden+Kennedy, has launched a campaign around its riding gear.

 Around Royal Enfield has grown a legend. But probably only owners of the bike would be aware the manufacturer also has a range of protective gear. So, to increase familiarity, Royal Enfield recently teamed up with W+K to make the film.
 
 Over 1:47 minutes, biker dudes negotiate the elements and arduous geography in the midst of breathtaking locations – on slushy trails through the mountain forests of Darjeeling’s Lebong Valley, across the sandy wastes of Hemalachi Tanda (in Maharashtra), and among the snowbound meadowlands of   towards Sikkim’s north.
 
 Inspired by real riding experiences, the film attempts to prove you’re in good hands, and can tackle the trickiest of terrain and harshest of weather, in this protective gear. “Ours is a country where one can ride pretty much all year round, and one needs the right gear for it to manage in all weather and all terrains,” shared Samrat Som, who heads Apparels & Accessories at Royal Enfield.
 
 Meanwhile, Wieden+Kennedy was eager to talk about authentic experiences of “real” Royal Enfield riders – in places they actually ride to. “The entire film has been shot from a riders’ perspective, from the sound and situations to the cinematography,” said a W+K spokesperson.
 
 “The point was to create a film that riders themselves can immediately identify and connect with, and showcase the seamless integration of   into everyday and intense riding situations,” he added.
 
 Founded in 2007, W+K Delhi has consistently created complete brand experiences for some of India’s most successful companies, among them Royal Enfield Motorcycles, IndiGo, Audi India, Nike India, Make In India (Government of India) and Oberoi Hotels & Resorts.
 
 Besides conceptualising and creating the campaign, Wieden+Kennedy also directed the film in-house, a first for both the agency and the brand. Recently launched on Royal Enfield’s social media platforms and digital channels, its widescreen shots are bound to make more loyalists of this rugged and robust brand.
 
 
