MUMBAI: The photo of a man in his 30s is being circulated across   of college teachers and principals with a warning message since Friday. The man, who is approaching established colleges introducing himself as an alumnus, has allegedly duped teachers and principals of a few thousand rupees. 
 
 Speaking in polished English and displaying good manners, Rohit Pitamber, as he calls himself, manages to convince them that he indeed passed out from the institute and now works abroad. He uses names of some teachers who taught him about 10-15 years ago, some of them retired ones, to make his claim sound true and seeks money for his mother's treatment mostly for a fracture.
  
 “He came to my college about 15 days ago. He claimed to be a physics student from the 2002 batch," said principal of BN Bandodkar College, Madhuri Pejaver. “He dropped names of a few teachers who taught him and who have now retired, forcing me to believe him. He claimed to be working with a reputed firm in London. Then he told me about his mother being hospitalized in Thane for a fracture. He said that he has transferred money to the hospital for the treatment, but her discharge is being held up as the hospital has asked Rs 7,000 for some formalities and he does not have money in Indian currency. Since it was not a big amount, I gave him the money and had left for Kathmandu. It was only when his photo was circulated I remembered he had come to me too."
  
 At KJ Somaiya College of Science & Commerce, Vidyavihar, a teacher gave away Rs 3,000, to the same man identified later after an alert professor clicked his photograph at AC Patil College of Engineering. Vijay Joshi, principal of the college, said that the teacher agreed to give him money as he was falling short of Rs 2,980 and had agreed to return the money the same afternoon. This happened at the college in March. “Since the amounts are not very high, no one has lodged a police complaint till now. More than money we were worried about security of students and teachers. As it was a one-off case, we did not take action, but now we know of at least six cases,” said Joshi.
  
 A teacher from Sardar Patel Institute of Technology, Andheri, was duped of Rs 12,000 in March, possibly by the same man, probably the first case that came to light. Dhananjay Kalbande, a professor from the computer engineering department, said the impostor approached him with an emotional story about his mother's treatment.
  
 “Since I did not have cash, I gave him a bearer cheque for Rs 12,000, which he promised to return by evening," said Kalbande. A few days later, when he met a colleague from Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Technology , did he realize that the man had also met him with the same story.
  
 On Friday, when the man went to AC Patil College of Engineering, Kharghar, and met professor Manoj Deshpande who asked him to get a photo clicked for the college alumni record. Deshpande said the man asked for money using the story he shared with professor Kalbande. “He asked for Rs 5,000, but we did not give. We sent his photo across groups and many said he was the man who visited their college too," said Deshpande.
  
 Joshi said the person does his homework before approaching colleges. He must be looking up teachers' names on college websites or reading old college magazines, said principals.
 
