MYSURU: A day after a   smuggler was shot dead by forest watchers for allegedly cutting sandal trees in a forest area near  , the forest department has intensified patrolling in forest areas coming under its jurisdiction. 

 Forest watchers, who were patrolling the forest, shot at the smugglers allegedly axing sandal trees in the wee hours of Saturday. Shankar, a 26-year-old member of Soliga tribe from   in Mahadevapura in HD Kote taluk, was killed on the spot after cartridge pellets, which were fired from a slide-action gun by watcher Ganesh, hit his skull.
 
 The body of Shankar was handed over to his relatives after postmortem and other formalities. The last rites were performed on Sunday evening. 
 
 Meanwhile, the department has handed over Shankar’s cellphone, which was found at the crime scene, to   police station. The police claimed that they are verifying the contact details in Shankar’s phone to arrest his partners in crime.
 
 Investigation details have revealed that Shankar, son of Maraiah and Jayamma, had married Mahadevi, and that the couple has a son. Mahadevi is expecting their second child. Shankar had been a daily wage worker in Mysuru. During weekends, he used to be engaged in agriculture in their 2acre land. 
 
 Shankar’s sister, who lives in Bengaluru, had recently come and stayed at her parents’ house in HD Kote for some days. On Friday, Shankar accompanied his sister to Bengaluru and returned to Mysuru the same day. He fell to pellet shots on Saturday morning. 
 
 Police sources said that as per the investigation procedure, some police officers visited the colony on Sunday. But to their surprise, they found that the many of the relatives and friends of Shankar had fled the village fearing police. Police could only manage to collect some details on Shankar and his activities from fellow villagers.
 
  Forest area will be fenced
 
 Following the sandal tree cutting incident, the department has intensified patrolling in the area. It has also decided to install   cameras at the entry/ exit gates and inside the forest areas to monitor the activities there. 
 
 When contacted, DCF V Karikalan told TOI that the smugglers had entered the forest area from the ring road side. Then they have walked towards the burial ground attached to the forest. There is a small unfenced space between the forest and the burial ground, and the smugglers entered the forest through that. We will fence that space. We are also holding talks with locals and leaders to fence the burial ground,” he said. 
 
 “CCTV cameras will also be installed at the gates. The works on building watchmen shed, putting up playing equipment and taking up development works will be completed by February-end. The place will soon be secured,” he added.
 
