NAGPUR: “Ability and willingness to pay and timely payment are the key aspects of credit rating. For enhancing credit worthiness, it is important to use cutting edge technology and think differently,” said  , founder director of Brickwork Rating (I) Pvt Ltd, Mumbai. 

 Speaking on ‘Enhancing creditworthiness through credit rating’, organized by   on Friday, Ravishankar said, “Growth comes with risk. If a businessman finds that some risk factors are hampering growth, then s/he should find the reason and eliminate it to become successful.” 
 
 Credit rating plays an important role when people search for selecting a company for investment purposes. In this, domestic, national and international rating assume importance, Ravishankar said. Any AAA-rated company in India could be BBB-rated at the global level. Short and long-term rating, shadow and advantage ratings were also discussed for the growth of a company.
 
 Ravishankar said that besides strengthening business model and outperforming peer groups, it is necessary that the level of management standards is raised by improving ERM quality and corporate governance. Good intentions matched with ability to manage multiple geographic areas, cultures, currencies and regulations ensure success of a business, he added.
 
 E  , director and CEO, IIFCL Asset Management Company, New Delhi, spoke on ‘Opportunities in digital infrastructure programme’. He said, "Infrastructure is the basic need of everybody and underlined the need for strengthening it for which the policy should be sound enough to sustain for long. 
 
 Rao discussed the present status of infrastructure in India and said more opportunities will be created in telecom, electricity, ports and airports sectors. More exports and less imports with domestic expansion compliments economic growth. Growth in Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and public and private sector participation with effective regulations will lead to economic development and social welfare, he added. 
 
 Rohit Agrawal made the introductory remarks while Sanket Bagdia conducted the programme. OS Bagdia, Suhas Buddhe and Naresh Jakhotia were present at the programme. 
 
 (Reporting by Shubham Nagdeve)
 
