TIRUNELVELI: A   court has directed that cases be booked against the chairman of the Indian   (IRCS), Tamil Nadu branch Chennai, Metha, former chairman of the society’s Tirunelveli branch D A Prabhakar and eight others, including the former assistant commissioner of the Thatchanallur corporation on charges made against them by a Tirunelveli advocate regarding misappropriation of funds and also illegal cremation of orphaned bodies at the electric crematorium of the corporation.

 In his petition, advocate A Brammanayagam stated that he had received information through a series of RTI applications made under seven aspects of the IRCS’s functioning, based on a report given by a former sub-collector of Cheranmadevi, V Vishnu. The first one was related to the rescue of mentally-ill people, who were admitted to rehabilitation homes in 2011, 2014 and 2015, where it was found that there was no compliance of the rules of Mental Health, 1987 and funds were swindled by the society members in connivance with the corporation authorities.
 
 The collector in his report dated December 26, 2015 had mentioned that chairman of the IRCS, Tirunelveli, in a statement on April 15, 2014 had said that 25 mentally-ill women were identified and admitted to Anbu Illam, Vadakarai and Anbin Illam,  . However, the report of the district differently-abled welfare officer (DDAWO) for the same period stated that 25 mentally-ill people, including two men were rescued. Also, the names of the people submitted for the specific period by the IRCS and the home where they were admitted did not match. The DDAWO had released funds for the rehabilitation of these people without ascertaining their names and there was no certificate of admission and discharge.
 
 Violations in Rule 17 of the Tamil Nadu Registration of Psychiatric Rehabilitation Centres for Mentally Ill Persons Rules, 2002, by the DDAWO, Tirunelveli revealed it had failed to comprehend the lapses made by the homes, where they were admitted.
 
 Also, the Tirunelveli Corporation had entrusted the operations of the electric crematorium in its limits to the IRCS, and it was specified that Form A and Form 4A, doctors’ intimation regarding the cause of death and postmortem certificate for medico legal cases were a must from February 4, 2014 in the Tirunelveli Corporation. But in his submission, the operator of the crematorium, M Murugesan had submitted that these procedures were not followed from February 2014 to October 2015.
 
 In her statement, the assistant commissioner of the Tirunelveli Corporation, Thatchanallur zone said that 1,843 bodies were cremated between February 12, 2014 and December 31, 2015. But, secretary of the IRCS, Tirunelveli, Chockalingam had stated that 1,740 bodies were cremated during the same period, resulting in the ‘missing’ of 103 bodies. The secretary also stated that requisite forms were mandated only from September 2015. Hence, he sought disciplinary action against the corporation authorities for failing to monitor the functioning of the crematorium. He also sought a CBI probe into the ‘missing bodies’.
 
 The petitioner also alleged that the IRCS had formed a separate trust and also held multiple accounts with a malafide intention and siphoned off funds under various categories.
 
 Judicial magistrate M Ramadhas, who heard the petition, directed the Palayamkottai police to investigate the same and file an FIR against Prabhakar, Chokkalingam, Metha, former project co-ordinator, IRCS, Tirunelveli branch Thirupathy Rajan, former distress management tutor Vairavarajan, former assistant commissioner, Thatchanallur, Samuel Selvaraj, retired DDRO, Manokar, director of Empower Home, Tuticorin, Sankar, director, Bishop Anbin Illam, Tirunelveli, Rev Stephen Mullor and director, Anbu Illam, Sengottah, Rev Domine Philip.
 
 
