AHMEDABAD: The   (SHRC) has reasoned that a petitioner residing in Mehsana has no locus standi to file a plea to redress trampling of dalit rights in Dehgam taluka.

 The commission has rejected the plea filed by Kaushik Parmar, who pointed out that revenue records show land allocated for a dalit crematorium in Vasna-Chaudhari village had been turned into a pond.
 
 Dalits in the village were permanently deprived of a crematorium, as some time in the past a revenue talati had also passed a resolution that a separate crematorium for dalits in the village will lead to breach of peace.
 
 On February 9, Parmar had sought that the SHRC take necessary action in the matter, as currently dalits in   village have to use private land for last rites, as upper castes objected to their use of the common crematorium built by the civic body. But his plea was rejected by SHRC.
 
 “The petitioner is a native of Mehsana district, while the issue is of Dehgam taluka in   district. As the petitioner does not have any direct relation with the issue, the petition is disposed of,” states a letter dated March 27 sent by SHRC to the petitioner.
 
 Senior advocate of Gujarat high court, Girish Patel, who is known for championing cases of human rights, said that SHRC cannot refuse to consider a petition merely on the ground of petitioner’s native. 
 
 “The issue should matter rather than the person who raises the issue. Any person can approach the commission, if he learns human rights are being violated at certain place,” said Patel.
 
 “In this particular case, villagers must be scared to raise the issue and if it has been raised by a dalit rights activist, then SHRC must intervene,” Patel added.
 
 Parmar said that he had earlier filed various pleas before the SHRC in the issues related to atrocities on dalit community that occurred across the state and all of them had been considered. “I had also filed a petition before   (NHRC) in the July 11 Una flogging issue in which four dalit youths were beaten for skinning a dead cow,” Parmar said, adding that there is no rationale for junking pleas seeking remedy to violation of human rights just on ground of the petitioner’s native.
 
