The adage old is gold seems to ring true, when it comes to the   of yesteryear Tamil hit   in contemporary times. The digital versions of many of these old films are having long runs in theatres, giving new films — many of which struggle beyond the first weekend — a run for their money.

 ‘Rajapart Rangathurai’, the 1973 film revolving around the life of a stage artist with actor   in the lead, recently completed 50 days in a theatre in Madurai and 40 days in another in Nagercoil. Last Friday, MGR’s 1969 hit film ‘Adimaippenn’ too had a decent re-release in the digital format in several theatres in Chennai even as ticket prices went up due to GST. 
 
 Rajapart Rangathurai ran houseful in the weekends at Sri Meenakshi Paradise in Madurai. When the movie completed 50 days, Sivaji Ganesan fans and the theatre owner celebrated the moment by feasting on biriyani. 
 
 Ramesh Babu, a 64-year-old movie buff, says he has watched the film seven times after the re-release and three times at Sri Meenakshi Paradise alone. He says although one gets to watch such movies on TV, it is a special experience to watch them in the theatre with friends.
 
 The trend of re-running old movies started in 2012 when Sivaji Ganesan’s ‘Karnan’ was re-released in digital format in about 72 centres across the state. 
 
 But, what makes such films click today? Distributors say it is the mix of good script, lyrically melodious songs and fabulous acting that makes these movies relevant today. 
 
 "If you take Karnan, it had a good script, great songs and fabulous acting by Sivaji Ganesan. We put in great efforts to revive it in the digital format and ensured that every sound and music byte was reproduced in the same original quality," says Shanthi Chokkalingam of Divya Films, who pioneered the digital format re-run business. While the cost for acquisition and conversion came to about `45 lakh, Chokkalingam spent `70 lakh on publicity alone.
 
 Chokkalingam went on to re-release the MGR-Jayalalithaa starrer ‘Aayirathil Oruvan’, in 2014 in 120 screens across TN. It garnered mixed response, but set off a trend and more films entered the fray. Subsequently, Sivaji Ganesan’s ‘Paasamalar’, ‘Thiruvilaiyaadal’, ‘Vasantha Maaligai’ and MGR’s ‘Ninaithadhai Mudippavan’ and ‘Rikshakaaran’ swarmed theatres across the state. But, not all had successful runs, although they re-ignited a sense of nostalgia among fans.
 
 With a chunk of the re-runs being movies of   and Sivaji, many say the films thrived because of the age-old rivalry between the duo both in films and politics. "Most of Sivaji’s films were family oriented ones. His fans, who are now parents with grown up kids, were keen to relive that nostalgia with their family. They preferred to watch these films in air-conditioned theatres than run-down ones. Karnan had a phenomenal run only because it was released in theatres like Sathyam and Escape among others," says K Chandrasekaran, president, Nadigarthilagam Sivaji Social Welfare Association.
 
 Digitally recreated films of rivals Rajinikanth and Kamal Haasan didn’t evoke the same response due to the lack of a political rivalry between the actors. Attempts to digitally re-run old hits like ‘Ninaithaale Inikkum’ and ‘Baasha’, came a cropper.
 
 "Not all old films have successful re-runs," says Abirami Ramanathan, president, Tamil Nadu Theatre Owners Federation. "But, how old films were made itself could be a lesson for the youngsters today. MGR for instance fought with a real lion in ‘Adimai Penn’. It was not only about acting and action, but also about bravery, which now has been replaced by graphics. These old films had beautiful songs, as the makers respected the lyrics and kept the sound in the background," he adds.
 
 With the cost for digital conversion of an old film hovering around `40 lakhs, Ramanathan says one can easily recover the cost in a couple of days if he has the right film with good content. 
 
 
