NEW DELHI: The Delhi government’s   department has sought details about the functioning of   from chief district medical officers after it received complaints about “irregularities” in the running of these clinics.

 The complaint, said vigilance director Ashwani Kumar, was received more than two months ago. Sources said that following the complaints, the department recently wrote to all CDMOs seeking their reply on various issues, including amount of money being paid to the consultant doctors and rent for a few of the clinics.
 
 It was alleged that private doctors, who are paid Rs 30 for attending a patient, fudged their numbers. Also, they were “unnecessarily” calling the patients to the clinics to increase their numbers.
 
 “The vigilance department has sought details from the health department on alleged irregularities after it received a number of complaints about the functioning of mohalla clinics,” a source said.
 
 This is the second time the vigilance department has sought details after it was not “satisfied” with the initial response of the Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS). Sources said that recently, another complaint was received against mohalla clinics, but the vigilance inquiry had already been initiated by then. 
 
 In its reply, DGHS had refuted all the allegations levelled in complaints addressed to the vigilance department. In response to the allegation that doctors were allegedly making patients come again and again just to make money from visits, the DGHS had termed it “false”. To another allegation that most mohalla clinics opened in the houses of AAP workers, DGHS had said, “A district-level committee has been constituted to check the feasibility and finalise the rent of the premises offered by the members of the public. 
 
 Meanwhile, state BJP chief   has sought a CBI   into alleged irregularities in mohalla clinics.
 
 The AAP government’s mohalla clinic project, aimed at providing free healthcare facility to the city residents closer to their home, has received global recognition. It was praised by eminent people like former UN Secretary-General  . It has also figured in The Lancet, one of the prestigious medical journals in the world.
 
