PUNE: The movement of organ donation has taken off in a big way in the city in 2017 with six organ donations so far in January -the highest in a month anywhere in Maharashtra.
The sixth donation was made two days ago when relatives of 55year-old brain-dead farmer donated his liver. It gave a new lease of life to a 45-year-old man suffering from end-stage liver disease on Tuesday (January 24).
 
 The donation is unique because the relatives of the donor themselves enquired about organ donation before being approached by the hospital's employees.
 
 The sixth donor of the month, a patient of hypertension, had suffered intracranial bleed on January 17, following which he was admitted to a private hospital on the city's fringes. As his condition deteriorated, he was shifted to   the next day .
 
 “His condition was extremely critical. He was unconscious and was put on ventilator support. Despite all efforts and medical care, his condition did not improve. He was declared brain-dead in the morning on January 23. His two sons -one an engineer and the other working with the police department -were very much aware about organ donation and enquired about it before we approached them to seek their consent,“ said  , the trans plant coordinator of Ruby Hall Clinic.
 
 The family were willing to donate all the vital organs. “But considering the donor's age, we could not take his heart. Besides, his kidneys were found to be unfit for transplantation. His liver was in a good condition. We retrieved and transplanted it into a 33-year-old man in the early hours on Tuesday (January 23),“ Joshi said.
 
 The recipient, a private professional, had been suffering from end-stage liver disease for the past three years. “Since last six months, the recipient had developed lot of complications and needed hospitalization multiple times. The transplant has definitely saved his life,“ said liver trans plant physician   of Ruby Hall Clinic.
 
 Aarti Gokhale, the transplant coordinator of   (ZTCC), Pune branch, said, “The rise in organ donations in the city is unprecedented. The upward trend has been there from last year, when Pune had left Mumbai behind in organ donations in the state. This year, the movement has gone a notch higher as Pune has recorded six organ donations in a month, which is among highest recorded in a month in the state this year.“
 
 Barring the exception of December last year, when the highest eight organ donations were recorded, the city registers on an avera ge four to five organ donations every month. Of the six organ donations made so far this month in Pune, three donations took place at Ruby Hall Clinic, two at   and another at Jehangir hospital.
 
 Gokhale said, “The number of hospitals with mandatory licence to perform a liver transplant has increased from the earlier three hospitals to four. Sahyadri Hospital has received a licence to perform liver transplant last year, which also led to the rise in organ donations. Besides, Ruby Hall Clinic has initiated heart donation.As many as eight donated hearts from Pune were transplanted at different hospitals in Mumbai (6), New Delhi (1) and Chennai (1).“
 
