KANPUR: The man, suspected of having killed his wife and maternal cousin in   on Monday, allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself near his native home in  , on Tuesday. 

 Police said Mohinder alias Mohit (30), a native of Pachlakh village in Satti Police area of Kanpur Dehat, accompanied by his wife Prem Lata and cousin Soni, had recently gone to his maternal uncle Rajkumar's place in   area of North Delhi. On Monday, he allegedly killed his wife Prem Lata (28) and maternal cousin Soni (24) by repeatedly attacking them with a kitchen knife and a screwdriver and escaped thereafter. 
 
 
 
 
 According to SP Kanpur Dehat Dinesh Pal Singh, Mohinder made several attempts to kill himself before he finally hanged himself to death. "He first consumed poisonous substance, but when that did not kill him, he slit veins of his wrist. When even that did not work, he then finally ended his life by hanging himself using a scarf from an iron road of a tube-well room," said SP further.
 
 The SP further said that the family members told investigators that he was short-tempered and used to quarrel with his wife, whom he married in March this year, over petty issues. "No suicide note was recovered from the spot," he claimed and added the body was sent to the district hospital for postmortem.
 
 According to reports, Mohinder’s wife, Prem Lata (28) and maternal cousin Soni (24) were found dead at the latter's father Rajkumar's home in North Delhi’s Wazirabad area around 11am on Monday.
 
 Police said that Soni had a gallbladder related ailment and about a week back visited her father Rajkumar's house along with her cousin Mohinder and latter's wife Prem Lata. While Soni was a native of Muradganj village in Auraiya, her cousin Mohinder stays in Pachlakh village of Kanpur Dehat district. At the time of incident, Soni's father and the sibling were at their native village in Auraiya.
 
 On Tuesday morning, locals of Gauri village in Kanpur Dehat under the limits of Satti police spotted the body hanging from an iron rod of a tube well room in the fields and later informed the police. Police rushed to the spot and launched an investigation in this regard. The police identified him as Mohinder, son of Harishchandra, a native of Pachlakh village located close to Gauri village, where he was found hanging. 
 
 The police going by the prima-facie evidences indicated that the man had committed suicide. They though do not rule out of foul play either and said that they are waiting for post-mortem report to reach any final conclusion. 
 
 Further investigations are on in this regard, said police further.
 
