KOLKATA: The owner of the   that apparently smashed into a   near the ATI bus stop in   late on Tuesday evening was taken away by its owner after completion of formalities with the police.With memories of last year's Red Road Audi crash fresh in their minds, there was panic among locals after they found the red sports car with a damaged front portion near the   building.

 “Even we were taken aback on reaching the spot. It was an expensive vehicle.It had clearly met with an accident but there was no evidence that anybody had been hurt. We didn't lodge any case as there was no complainant. We brought a crane and hauled the car to the police station. Later, the owner arrived with all documents and explained that the driver had lost control and smashed into the divider. After we recorded his statement and completed formalities, we allowed him to leave with the car,“ a senior police officer said.
 
 The   718 Boxster S costs anyt hing between Rs 80 lakh and Rs 1 crore. It can accelerate from 0 to 100kmhour in 4.6 seconds. According to a source, the driver of the sports car was not at fault. He was moving towards a crossing when a Ola cab came in front. The Porsche driver was forced to swerve and he hit the divider. While the police refused to provide details about the owner, the Porsche is registered in the name of R A A Arsalan Enterprise Pvt Ltd. It was registered on November 6, 2015.
 
 R A A Arsalan Enterprise Pvt Ltd is an unlisted private company with an authorised share capital of Rs 10,00,000. Its registered address is on Circus Avenue near the Park Circus crossing. The company's managing director is Akhtar Parwez and its director is Ayesha Parwez. Akhtar Parwez is also registered with the ministry of company affairs as director of two other companies, including one that produces films. According to a source, Akhtar Parwez is also a director of Arsalan chain of eateries.
 
 Though he could not be contacted, a source said that the driver of the Porsche left the spot after the accident to fetch original documents for the vehicle as he knew that they would be required to get it released.“The driver had no cause for panic as didn't do anything wrong. He just wanted to take away the car as soon as possible,“ the source said.
 
