KOLHAPUR: The   has found   it has inspected since March 15.

 The administration decided to crack down on illegally-run hospitals and sonography centres across the centres after the sex determination racket was exposed in Mhaisal town in Sangli   this month.
 
 These irregularities include violation of norms regarding the ICU and not having the required certificates and no objection certificates (NOC) from various departments of the civic body, health administration, and the state’s directorate of health. 
 
 The administration will be inspecting around 400 hospitals more. In the last two weeks, however, only 90 hospitals were inspected. The deadline for teams appointed for surprise visits and inspection ends on April 15. 
 
 District civil surgeon L S Patil, said, “We have found irregularities in 25 hospitals and   across the district. These irregularities are mostly related to technical issues such as failure in getting certificates for disposing medical waste or any other provisions as mentioned in the Bombay Nursing Act. We are yet to find any maternity clinic or sonography centre where illegal processes are taking place. Show-cause notices have been issued to the hospitals’ doctors and we have sought a reply within a week.”
 
 Inspection teams have been formed at the taluka-level comprising a medical superintendent and representatives from the revenue department, police and food and drugs administration (FDA). These teams will make surprise visits. Similar teams were formed for inspection of hospitals in the   (KMC) limits as well as village areas. A committee has been formed at the district level headed by the district collector. Patil said that a report regarding the irregularities in these 25 clinics was tabled before the committee which will soon decide the future course of action.
 
 “The teams inspect the qualifications of doctors and nursing staff operating in the clinics. Documents related to various permissions under the Act are scrutinised and various departments such as outpatient department (OPD), operation theatres, delivery sections, sonography section, medical stores, laboratories and scanning department are searched. The doctors, especially those handling pregnancy cases, have to give details of medicines prescribed to any pregnant women,” Patil said. 
 
