PATNA: Sounds strange, but the strength of teachers in the universities and colleges of the state is inversely proportional to the enrolment of students. While there has been manifold increase in the number of pupils pursuing higher education in the last five decades, the number of teachers has sharply declined during the period.
 
  In the late sixties, there were more than 15,000 teachers for less than two lakh students in different colleges and universities of  . Today, however, the number of teachers is less than 5,000 for over 10 lakh students. Even in Patna University, there used to be as many as 1,024 teachers in the early seventies to teach not more than 10,000 students, but today there are only 276 teachers to teach more than 18,000 students.
  
  Surprisingly enough, the number of courses has also increased manifold during the period, thereby, increasing teachers’ workload. Introduction of semester system at the postgraduate (PG) level in all the universities which encompasses the components of continuous internal assessment (CIA), mid-semester examinations, seminars, quizzes and oral presentations, has only worsened the situation. The semester system is likely to be introduced even at the undergraduate (UG) level from the next academic session putting additional pressure on teachers.
  
  The situation has come to such a pass that a number of colleges and PG departments under different universities are virtually running without teachers even as they have thousands of students on their roll. For instance, in Harihar Saha College, a constituent unit of B N Mandal University in Madhepura, there is not a single subject teacher except the principal, who will retire this month. The college imparts honours teaching in eight subjects besides conducting intermediate classes.
  
    at Bahadurganj under the same university has just one teacher besides the principal to manage all its academic activities. Even this college has more than 2,000 students. Naubatpur’s M D College, a constituent unit of  , has more than 2,000 students on its roll, but just two teachers. There are as many as 19 departments of arts and science faculties in the college.
  
  H R College at Amnaur, a constituent unit of Jai Prakash University in Chhapra, has more than 4,000 students enrolled at the intermediate and graduation levels, but only two subject teachers (one each in botany and economics) besides the principal. There are as many as 27 sanctioned posts in the college for honours teaching in 14 subjects, but almost all are lying vacant.
  
  Expressing concern at the dwindling strength of teachers in the institutions of higher education in the state, Federation of University Teachers’ Associations of Bihar’s (FUTAB) working president Kanhaiya Bahadur Sinha said in ancient days, the teacher-student ratio was better. In Nalanda University, there were 1,000 teachers for 10,000 students. Even if the new   regulations provide for ensuring at least one teacher for every 10 students at the PG level and one for every 25 students at the UG level, there is one teacher for more than 160 students in Bihar making a mockery of higher education.
  
  Patna University Teachers’ Association general secretary Anil Kumar criticized the reported government indifference towards higher education and demanded immediate filling up of all vacant posts of teachers. The ongoing process of appointment of assistant professors by the   is so slow that by the time teachers are appointed against the vacancies reported in 2013, all the existing teachers will retire. Necessary steps should be taken to ensure all appointments at the earliest, he said.
