COIMBATORE: The next fortnight is likely to be crucial for the textile industry as the ambiguity over duty drawbacks continues. Currently, the duty drawback benefits are available only till September 30. The industry has appealed to the Centre to continue all export benefits till the business revives and returns to normalcy. Industrialists also said that retaining drawbacks and refunding input tax credits were critical in keeping production costs low and for Indian products to remain globally competitive.

 Speaking to the media, chairman of The Southern India Mills' Association ( ) and managing director, KPR Group, P  , said the government had not yet given the mandate to the duty drawback committee to recommend the revised duty draw back rates.
 
 “With the ambiguity and uncertainty over duty drawbacks continuing, people are hesitating to take export bookings at the current rate, because the booking orders are likely to be delivered only after two months when a new drawback rate could be in place,“ said Natraj. “We appeal to the Centre to extend all export benefits till the industry revives and ensure that pre   export competitiveness is retained,“ he said.
 
 Industrialists also said that they required more clarity regarding GST Act and rules and the local authorities are often not able to provide immediate answers. “The local tax authorities should be facilitated to clarify the industry then and there, but now they only forward the issues and clarification to the concerned  ,“ said Natraj.“For example, regarding purchase of HSD oil under 2% CST and the use of C form is creating confusions, because   accepts them but Tamil Nadu does not,“ he said.
 
 SIMA also appealed to the GST council to reduce the tax on man-made fibres, including sewing thread filament yarns, from 18% to 12%. “The powerloom sector which uses yarn, pays 18% GST on buying yarn but they get to charge only 5% GST on fabrics, so they are unable to take out the input credit on it. The cost difference works out 5% to 7%,“ he said.
 
