GURUGRAM: Days after TOI reported about the monkey menace in South City I, the primate terror has once again returned to the area with the latest victim being a six-year-old autistic girl.

 Residents of South City, one of the city’s most elite colonies, told TOI how Amishi Singh, an autistic child, had a close shave with a troop of monkeys, not once but twice.
 
 Amishi’s mother, Akansha Singh, recounts the horror.
 
 “Amishi was sitting inside the room while these monkeys were in the balcony. The monkeys were trying to enter the room. I simply shudder at the thought of what would have happened to my daughter had I left that door open,” said Akansha, a resident of A Block in South City I.
 
 The first incident took place on March 4. 
 
 Again on March 6, Amishi had a close encounter with monkeys. This time Amishi had gone out for a walk with the domestic help when these monkeys started howling at her.
 
 “I heard Amishi shouting and at the same time chattering of monkeys. I ran out with a stick which the society guard had given me after the first incident. I saw few construction labourers, who were working in the society, trying to scare away the monkeys. Eventually I ran towards my daughter and frightened the monkeys away,” recalls Akansha.
 
 Residents have told TOI they have been suffering this monkey menace for years now. 
 
 “We had even roped in a Langoor whose presence wasn’t good news for the monkeys,” said Sanjay Khattar, another resident. The langoor was later released from service once the residents thought that things were under control.
 
 Meanwhile, Municipal Corporation Gurgaon officials told TOI that they have launched a drive against monkeys a month back. 
 
 “We have captured nearly 500 monkeys from areas like Sector 4, 7, 14, 23 and Basai village as well. If the problem in persisting in South City, we will dispatch a team there too,” the official said.
 
 Animal experts however blame both administration and people for this situation. “Government is not bothered to keep the natural habitat of monkeys intact. This will happen if we continue to destroy their home,” said Naresh Kadyan from People For Animals (PFA), Haryana. 
 
 Kadyan said these monkeys need to be captured using proper scientific methods are should be transferred to the rescue centres. 
 
