NAGPUR: When four-year-old Ojaswi was detected with  , her parents had no knowledge about the disease, its   and side effects of treatment.

 But two years since then, the couple knows so much about Acute Lymphoid Leukemia (ALL) that even many doctors do not. They can now counsel parents and relatives of other suffering kids or adults equally well as a doctor. They can infuse confidence in patients to fight the disease not just with medicines but with positive thinking and attitude.
 
 Chhaya, Ojaswi’s mother says that since her daughter was just four years old when she was detected with ALL, she couldn’t go to school due to weakness. Residents of Pulgaon near Wardha, the Dhobales now plan to put their daughter in a school.
 
 Dhobales are not just an isolated example.   (17), who survived ovarian cancer after surgery and chemotherapy, too is strong enough to handle the disease with courage. “We should promote the slogan ‘We can, I can’ among everyone to fight cancers which still continue to be dreaded by most people,” Choubey said.
 
 There were many parents and relatives of cancer survivors as well as those under treatment at a meeting called by Dr   on the occasion of World Cancer Day on Saturday. These patients and relatives are now a support group who stand by each other in hard times. They also guide others to fight cancers of all types.
 
 Dr Mandhaniya said that unfortunately Nagpur or almost entire Vidarbha had a huge incidence of oral, oesophageal cancers. Cancer among children, especially blood cancer, was a big threat. “But the treatment of cancer is now becoming much simpler. A new field called immunotherapy is expected to change the cancer treatment scenario and chemotherapy may be completely out,” he said.
 
 In women, breast cancer and that of cervix were the leading ones. In the rural sector, apparently due to unhygienic habits, the incidence of cervical cancer, which is caused by human papilloma virus (HPV), is increasing fast. But the overall incidence of the disease in the country is on the decline.
 
 “There is a vaccine for cervical cancer. But unless it is made part of compulsory vaccines, it may be difficult to spread as much awareness as needed among girls and women,” Dr Mandhaniya said.
 
 He specially warned the youth not to fall prey to tobacco addiction. “I believe there is some chemical mixed in the kharra eaten by people that worsens the effects of tobacco and causes oral cancer,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, a cancer awareness rally as well as an exhibition on various types of cancers, possible prevention and treatment was held at RST Regional Cancer Hospital. Dr Pankaj Chowdhary, director of RST Regional Cancer Hospital, welcomed various organizations.
 
 He wanted to show an example to the society that, ‘if cancer treatment is given properly in early stages, it can be cured’. Joint director Dr BK Sharma informed about tobacco-related diseases and cancers. He said 40% of cancer is due to tobacco. He also narrated that 90% of oral cancer is caused by tobacco ingredients.
 
