PATNA: The Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, which came into force in the country on the occasion of   in 2012 to protect children from  ,  , registered a   of just 3.05% between November 2012 and December 2016 in the state.
 
  Against 2,716 cases lodged across the state during this period, only 83 accused have been convicted and 196 acquitted despite the fact that special courts under the provision of   are functioning in all districts.
  
  Of the 2,716 cases registered till December last year, police have submitted chargesheet in 2,036 cases while in 92 cases, final forms were submitted. Altogether 1,757 cases are still pending in various special courts across the state.
  
  ADG (headquarter) S K Singhal said he will discuss the issue with CID officials. He, however, refused to comment as to what is responsible for poor conviction rate – delay in investigation or lacunae in prosecution.
  
  The Act also casts the police in the role of child protectors during the investigative process. Thus, the police personnel receiving a report of sexual abuse of a child are given the responsibility of making urgent arrangements for the care and protection of the child, such as obtaining emergency medical treatment for the child and placing the child in a shelter home.
  
  The Act also provides for mandatory reporting of sexual offences. This casts a legal duty upon a person who has knowledge that a child has been sexually abused to report the offence. If he fails to do so, he may be punished with six months’ imprisonment or a fine.
  
  According records available with state police headquarters record, the first conviction under POCSO Act was registered on October 19, 2013, in which a rape and murder accused was given capital punishment.
  
  “The incident took place at Chandra Mandi in Jamui, where a minor girl was raped and murdered on August 20, 2013 in an open field. The accused was arrested the same day. The   collected soil samples from accused’s clothes and crime spot on the basis of which chargesheet was submitted on September. The special court sentenced the accused to death within one-and-a-half month of filing of chargesheet against him,” sources said.
  
  The first case in the state under POCSO Act was lodged with Danapur police station in Patna on December 6, 2012.
  
  Data available with National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) for 2015 suggests that 1,917 cases of crime committed against children were reported in Bihar that year, which was just 2% of the national average. Bihar has a population of 44.7 crore children, the largest in the country.
