CHENNAI: A container with layers of charcoal and sand could be an effective and low-cost alternative to expensive filters to kill harmful bacteria in water and make it potable.

 Researchers at   who developed the portable water treatment system on Monday signed a memorandum of understanding with   (TANSTIA)-FNF Service Centre to take the technology to entrepreneurs.
 
 The system — designed for households in poor communities that are most prone to water-borne diseases — is easy to use and made with locally available material.
 
 Ligy Philip, a professor with the institute’s department of civil engineering, said along with the technology for the water treatment system, IIT-M will transfer to small industries two simple water test kits, one that can test 14 parameters and another to test 24. Users can test pH levels, total hardness, chlorides, dissolved solids, calcium and bacteriological quality of water samples with the kits.
 
 Philip said the researchers tested the technology for three years in Mylai Balaji Nagar slum in Velachery. “We first made something big, but improvised later and made it portable,” she said.
 
 The system’s simple technology uses one layer each of activated charcoal and sand in a 100-litre container. A user pours water directly into the container, within which the sand attracts visible impurities and the charcoal absorbs other sediments and odour. A 2mg chlorine tablet in the water kills harmful bacteria.
 
 The user can collect 20 litres of treated water in 30 minutes from the system.
 
 “The filter material can be changed depending on water turbidity levels,” Philip said, adding that the system purifies most types of polluted water but cannot treat industrially contaminated or heavy metal-tainted water.
 
 TANSTIA-FNF Service Centre will identify entrepreneurs to make the water filters and distribute it to people who need it most. Tanstia-FNF Service Centre chairman C Babu said the plan is to take the technology to 1,500 entrepreneurs in five years.
 
 IIT-M did not patent the technology and is giving it away almost free of cost.
 
 
