She heads the BJP’s TN unit at a time when there is a leadership vacuum in the state. But,   exudes confidence. She says the Narendra Modi-Amit Shah success formula would be repeated in Tamil Nadu, as the principal Dravidian parties   and   have lost their vigor. Excerpts of an interview with Julie Mariappan:

  
 
 
 It is a fact that we could not convert the Modi “magic” into votes earlier since our organization was weak. We are now focussing on areas like mass enrolment to increase cadre base and holding training camps for cadres. We have set up booth committees (for elections) with 25 members each. Our plank is corruption-free and development-oriented government. Look at Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Rajasthan, where we have made a difference. BJP is no lesser than any regional party in safeguarding the interests of Tamil Nadu. There is a myth that a national party cannot provide good governance in Tamil Nadu. We will break that.
 
 But this is the Dravidian heartland and you still haven’t begun your account.
 
 In 1982, BJP had only two MPs and now we have come thus far. We are optimistic. The situation is favourable for BJP now.
 
 
 
 
 It is wrong to blame BJP. The Centre was proactive within hours after the December 2015 floods in  , taking up rescue and rehabilitation. Ministers were in the forefront. There was no firing on fishermen under the Modi regime until the recent one. On our request, an Indian envoy immediately took up the issue with the Sri Lankan President and an inquiry was ordered. Union ministers visited Thangachimadam to prevail upon the fishermen to give up their protests. It was on BJP government’s intervention that five fishermen from Tamil Nadu, who were on death row on drug-trafficking charges in Lanka, were freed. We have plans like Colachel port, widening of ECR and railway projects. Opposition is scared of BJP gaining a foothold and hence they targetting us.
 
 
 
 
 None can match the political prowess or experience of Karunanidhi and Jayalalithaa. At the same time, the state can get to see new leaders emerging. I am educated, a doctor by profession and belong to a backward community and I now head a state unit of a national party. We shall also become mass leaders like Kalaignar or Jayalalithaa in future.
 
 
 
 
 People are dumping both parties as they do not have the vigor they did before. AIADMK split into three factions after the demise of its leader. DMK cannot be dubbed an alternative to AIADMK, as it failed on all counts.
 
 
 
 
 I don’t agree. We are taking Modi’s message to the masses. I myself covered one third of the state in the last two months, besides addressing the concerns of fishermen or farmers opposing hydrocarbon. From organizational meetings to public meetings, BJP is more vigorous than ever before.
 
 
 
 
 It is for my party to decide and there is a forum. I will do so if my party says so. I will work hard to ensure a victory for the party.
 
