NEW DELHI: The   on Monday said enemy property should not get transferred to the descendants of the erstwhile owners and must go to the government. 

 "We are of the view that enemy property should not get transferred to the descendants of the erstwhile owners. It must go to the government. We are very clear about it," a bench of Chief Justice J S Khehar and Justice N V   said.
 
 The court refused to entertain Congress   MP  's writ petition challenging the validity of the Centre's decision to re-promulgate the enemy property ordinance for the fifth time, terming it a violation of a recent constitution bench decision.
 
  "This is a very sensitive issue for the security of the nation. We have perused the constitution bench judgment. There cannot be a hard and fast rule. You are an MP. You get the debate started in Parliament. Everyone's right should be protected but you must also be sensitive towards national security," the bench added. 
 
 Senior advocate Anand   continued to plead that re-promulgation of the enemy property ordinance was contrary to the law laid down by the SC but the bench was unmoved.
 
  Finding it difficult to convince the bench, Grover withdrew the petition. The Enemy Property (Amendment and Validation) Ordinance, 2016 was promulgated by the President on January 7, 2016 to amend the Enemy Property Act, 1968 and the Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Act, 1971. A bill on the same lines was passed in   on March 9, 2016. The next day, it was laid before Rajya Sabha, which referred it to a select committee on March 15. A day later, Parliament was adjourned. 
 
 The ordinance was re-promulgated on April 2 last year. Parliament met again but no legislative action was taken. It was re-promulgated for the third time on May 31, 2016. The process continued and it was re-promulgated for the fifth time on December 22 last year and the government did not even care to specify what the grave urgency was for re-promulgating the ordinance.
 
  The petitioner had cited the January 2 judgment in Krishna Kumar Singh case by a constitution bench of the SC, which ruled, "Re-promulgation of ordinances is constitutionally impermissible since it represents an effort to overreach the legislative body which is the primary source of law making authority in a parliamentary democracy." 
 
 
