VISAKHAPATNAM: Visakhapatnam Urban Development Authority (Vuda) is still awaiting the go ahead for developing a layout for a residential housing complex for the oustees of Bhogapuram international airport in  .

 The orders were issued two weeks ago by the Vizianagaram district administration, but the authorities concerned including the revenue department of Vizianagaram and Bhogapuram International Airport Corporation Limited (BIACL) are yet to give Vuda the go-ahead.
 
 Official sources said the main reasons behind the delay of the project is lack of cooperation among the authorities concerned.
 
 Vuda officials said they were yet to receive from the Vizianagaram authorities and BIACL the information on the number of beneficiaries, area of the layout and nature of houses.
 
 “Without cooperation from the stakeholders, we cannot go ahead with the project. Besides, no money has been allocated to us to take up for the layout design,” said a Vuda official.
 
 Vizianagaram collector Vivek Yadav said they would soon give the information required to Vuda. They have identified 376 beneficiaries for the housing project. Each beneficiary may get around 5 cents of the plot. The housing project would come up in few areas including   in Bhogapuram mandal of the district, the collector said.
 
 He further added that Vuda has been asked to complete the layout design work by six months. “I will soon meet Vuda vice-chairman   to discuss the project. This apart, there will be another meeting with the beneficiaries to decide what type of houses they want in the residential layout,” Vivek Yadav said.
 
 A source from BIACL said the district revenue authorities are supposed to hand over 2,558 acres of land to BIACL for the project. But as on date, only 1,402 acres of government, private and assigned land was given to BIACL. 
 
 Vivek Yadav said, “Officials will keep nearly 695 acres of land ready within a week for BIACL.”
 
 Bhogapuram airport is proposed to be developed at an estimated cost of Rs 2,461.27 crore at 2,558 acres of land which is close to the   and 45 kms from Vizag city. The airport project includes construction of new runway, terminal building, apron, air traffic controller building among others and is expected to cater to big aircraft including Airbus A-380. 
 
 
