Biking liberates women, and especially when you are from a conservative place like the Middle East, where religion and social taboos curtail women’s mobility and freedom, being a female rider is a political stance,” says  , a   from   who was in Hyderabad recently to take part in the   celebrations.

 
 
  The 54-year old mother-of-four is a recipient of the United Nations World Humanitarian Award for Qatar 2014, for her pioneering work on empowering women. Born into a cosmopolitan Muslim family with Qatari and Mexican roots, Margarita has mentored many Arab women during her four-year tenure as Ladies of Harley Officer of Qatar chapter. She has undertaken several bike rallies with members all over the Middle East. “Contrary to the popular perception, in many middle eastern countries, like Jordan, UAE and Oman, women are allowed to ride bikes. But in Saudi Arabia women are forbidden to do so by the authorities. But we managed to ride secretly in Saudi Arabia as well. It was a night drive arranged by a secret all-women bikers group. It was dangerous, but the thrill of driving in the desert under the cover of darkness made it an unforgettable experience,” she says proudly displaying a green Saudi badge along with a slew of memorabilia from her travels to 12 countries across five continents.
 She rates her drive and trek across Peru enroute the 15th century Inca citadel, Machu Pichu, as the toughest solo bike expedition so far. “It was a one-week-long ride criss-crossing dangerous mountain passes and streams. But the amazing sight atop the mountain will haunt me forever,” she says.
 
 
 “For me biking is a quest to seek my inner soul, a kind of meditation. When the wind hits my hair, and the machine makes a vrooming sound, it’s pure bliss. Also when I wander around the world on my bike I get to see and meet people from different cultures,” shares the biker who is on her second visit to India.
 
 
 
 Looks like she feels quite at home in the city. “This is my first visit to Hyderabad. I love the vibe of the city, the people are so friendly and hospitable. We had a team of male riders, who wanted to protect us from any mischief makers on our midnight ride to Charminar,” says Margarita adding, “The food and culture is very much similar to Qatar. Since we have a seizable Indian population back home, I am used to Indian cuisine like biryani and lot of delicious chutneys.” 
 
 
 However, Margarita says her first bike ride in India in 2015 came as a big shock. “My first solo-drive was from Mumbai to Daman and Diu in Gujarat. Everything from strange glances from people, cows on roads, the Indian driving sense and the vibrant colourful life, was totally new to me. And above all, driving here is crazy and dangerous, the traffic tests your patience unlike the smooth multi-lanes in the Middle East. Once a biker rammed into my mirror and just drove away without even turning back, as if nothing happened,” she recalls. However, interacting with Indian women bikers seems to have made a lasting impression on her. “So many Indian women are entering into new fields against all odds. It was great to interact with so many women who are taking up new challenges like biking and building a new solidarity on India’s dangerous roads. I am inspired by their life-stories to make a difference to Indian society.”
 
