MUMBAI: In a first such verdict, the Bombay high court held that despite willingness of the complainant and accused, a non-compoundable   cannot be settled out of court and rejected a plea by BJP MLA   to permit such a closure in an offence of electricity meter tampering for which a trial court had convicted him and his brother in 2014.

 Compounding a non-compoundable offence would be “against public policy and amount to stifling prosecution” said Justice A M Badar. 
 
 But in a partial relief to   and his brother, Mahadev Halvankar, the HC permitted compounding of an offence of power theft against them. The Electricity Act of 2003 states power theft is a compoundable offence, where the complainant (often the victim) can enter into a compromise and agree to have the criminal charges dropped against the accused. Suresh was convicted along with Mahadev in 2014 under the Electricity Act for power theft and tampering with an electric meter in his factory. The meter belonged to the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd (MSEDCL), which had filed the FIR against the MLA, its consumer, in 2008 and Mahadev. In HC, both the accused and MSEDCL unanimously contended that the offence of meter tampering under Section 138(d) of the Electricity Act, can be compounded. The company had agreed to accept necessary compounding charges. 
 
 The HC said such an agreement is “wholly void in law”. 
 
 “Such a course of action is not permissible because when the offence is non-compoundable, then permitting it to be compounded is against the public policy and would amount to stifling of prosecution,” said Justice A M Badar.
 
 The HC observed that meter tampering was not specifically declared to be compoundable under the Act. The Electricity Act of 2003 makes theft of power punishable under Section 135 and meter tampering under Section 138(d). 
 
 But the Act itself under Section 152 prescribes that power theft cases can be compounded on payment of a fine. Counsel   appearing for the MLA and   argued that the meter tampering offence essentially deals with power theft as its objective and hence the case can be closed without criminal prosecution. 
 
 
