AURANGABAD:   Tatu is falling short of words to express his gratitude towards his teachers for gifting him a two-wheeler on the occasion of Gudi Padwa.

 A computer science student from Deogiri   of Engineering and Management Studies here, Vikramsingh does not have legs and has to undertake an arduous journey of more than eight kilometres for coming to college on a special tri-cycle for the last three years.
 
 “Riding the tri-cycle was an ardous task as the road towards the college has steep inclinations. While my teachers have always been kind, I never expected them to give me such a precious gift,” Vikramsingh, who has a good academic record, said. 
 
 Institute principal   said that the determination and tenacity of Vikramsingh in achieving academic excellence prompted the college staffers to extend a helping hand to him.
 
 “We could purchase the two-wheeler as our staff contributed Rs 2,000 each. It was modified to suit his needs by attaching necessary accessories. It was a wonderful moment for all of us to hand over the gift to the boy,” he said, on Wednesday. 
 
 The college, meanwhile, has set another precedent by saving money on bouquets and donating the same among deserving students. A sum of around Rs 80,000 was given to students from humble background.
 
 The state education department in October 2015 had ordered that books should replace flower bouquets for traditional greetings during different programmes and welcoming of guests in educational institutions. Both the State School Education Department and Higher Technical Education Department had issued separate orders, asking all educational establishments, public universities and allied institutions to make way for books in lieu of bouquets.
 
 Shiurkar said that Rs 10,000 each was awarded to eight students from money saved on bouquets. “We noted down the amount saved on flowers and deposited it in students welfare fund. We are glad to have had the opportunity to help needy students,” he said.
 
 College authorities said that they could not only implement government’s orders pertaining to bouquets, but could also mould it further in the best interest of students. 
 
