CHANDIGARH/LUDHIANA: Cellphone wielding urban voters may have very strong political views, but many of them didn't know one basic rule of electoral democracy ­ you can't make your vote public. If you do make it public, you are committing a crime under the  .

 On Saturday, many voters in Punjab used their cellphones to take photos and videos of themselves pressing the button on the electronic voting machine (EVM) for a particular party and posted them on social media. This despite the Election Commission clearly stating that cellphones were not allowed inside the booths. By late morning, many such photographs were freely floating on Facebook, Twitter and WhatsApp.
 
 Asked if voters were allowed to carry phones inside polling booths,   (CEO) VK Singh had said on Friday, “Voters cannot carry their cell phones inside polling booths, let alone take pictures. If they want to take selfies, that should be done after they cast their vote.” A voter from Patiala, 38 year-old Preet Kanwal said no one was stopped from carrying cellphones into the booths. “I didn't take pictures but I did have my phone with me,” he said. “The authorities did not focus on this issue.”
 
 At many booths, people in queues were seeing surfing the net or texting while waiting for their turn to come. A TOI team visited various polling stations under East, West, South, Central and Atam Nagar constituencies in Ludhiana. Barring a few stations, almost all voters were seen taking pictures while standing in queue and then carrying them into the booth.
 
 When TOI questioned one of the block level officers at SPG Government Senior Secondary School for Boys why phones were allowed, he simply said, “We have made the necessary announcement not to carry mobile phones.”
 
 At another polling booth, some youngsters were seen going live on Facebook and busy in chatting on WhatsApp while waiting for their turn.
 
 Additional CEO, C Sibin told TOI that though it is for the returning officers (ROs) to check that voters are not filming themselves while exercising their franchise, the commission can take suo moto notice if the identity of any such voter is established. “We will have to look into it on case to case basis.” He confirmed that carrying of cell phone was not allowed inside polling booths.
 
