NEW DELHI: You may not realise it, but the   inside your house may be much   than the air outside with CO2 and PM 2.5 levels peaking at night and early morning. A recent study conducted by the   (IPCA) across 20 households in the capital has revealed that in spite of keeping an air   inside the room, you may still be recording   due to poor ventilation, with levels touching 2000 parts per million — twice the safe standard for indoors.

 The study highlights that CO2 levels in the house start rising after 11pm (about 1000 ppm) in a tightly sealed room with an   and air conditioner on and can reach upto 2000 ppm by 5 am with two occupants in the room. The study also conducted a 12-hour reading of PM 2.5 levels both indoors and outdoors, with levels recorded highest during the morning. In fact, PM 2.5 levels indoor were higher than those outdoors at around 10.30am with air quality most ideal between 3-6pm indoors.
 
 “The study shows that air quality indoors is best between 3-6pm, while indoor pollution is at its peak between 9-12 pm and 6-9 am. In the mornings it was discovered that levels are high due to re suspension of dust, while at night due to a closed and compact environment the levels are high,” said Radha Goyal, deputy director, IPCA.
 
 The study further suggests that in order to reduce CO2 levels at night, indoor plants should be used that can give oxygen at night as well, while PM 2.5 can be improved by improving ventilation and ensuring items like carpets and sofa sets are dry cleaned at regularly. “Indoor plants need to be used in such a situation, which give oxygen at night as well. We found that pollution was highest in the kitchen where volatile organic compounds (VOCs), particles and CO were all found due to combustion and fumes. They can also be high in bedrooms if the ventilation is improper,” said Goyal.
 
 Experts highlight that VOCs remain one of the most common pollutants indoors and are generated from furnishings and paints, furniture and perfumes even. “These often remain trapped inside the house. Items like carpets have a lot of dust particles and dust mites trapped which can also lead to diseases. Quite often it is important to target such sources and ensure they are dry-cleaned or removed, while ventilation in places like kitchens should be adequate,” said Priyanka Kulshreshta, assistant professor at Lady Irwin College.
 
 
