 may be gearing up for the release of his second   film —   starring  , but the camaraderie between him and his team, and the long list of well-wishers prove that he is one among the more loved technicians in the industry. It is no wonder then that this list of experts automatically become a part of the crew of this film.
 Talking about his core team, Yogi tells us, “While I’ve known music director   over the years, this is the first time he has composed music for my film and, even before we began, he said, ‘I’m going to do whatever you want me to do for this movie’. Sure, our friendship has been one of the causes, but it was more the story that sealed the deal. One of the songs, Ondanandu Ooranalli, is one of our favourite numbers which has been dedicated to Shivarajkumar’s father the late legendary actor  . The film has six songs, of which we have released five as part of the audio. The last one will be released along with the film itself as it is a situational number that involves montages. That’ll be a surprise.”
  The cast and crew may have given their best while shooting, but a film takes final shape on the editing table. However, going a step away from this table is the film’s editor Deepu S Kumar. The State Award winner is said to have been so inspired by the rushes as and when they came in that he even took time off to be on the sets during some of the shoots. “Deepu has been one of my close friends, and he, like so many others, understands how important this film is for me. He got completely involved with the process of filmmaking, so much so that he has not let his assistants or team okay even a single scene without sitting through it himself,” says Yogi.
  There is Jai Anand, the cinematographer, who has worked with Shivarajkumar in Bhajarangi. “They understand each other a lot more because of their previous work experience,” adds Yogi.
  Another addition to this team is Effects Rajan. “People in the industry know Rajan because of his work on the effects on the editing table. He has more than 1,000 films to his credit, but this is the first time he has worked on the story and screenplay of a film too, along with me,” says Yogi.
  Additionally, Yogi says, the film would not have been as elaborate and complete without the efforts of his assistants across departments, and fight choreographers Ravi Varma and Mass Madha, dance choreographers A Harsha and Kalai, as well as art director Shivkumar. “A film is not a one man show, and while at it, it is very often the main technicians who manage to get their share of credit. But each member of the team is a contributor and therefore is an extremely important person on the set,” concludes the director..
