By  

 CHENNAI: Ranging from differential calculus to oceanography and literature, the erstwhile   run by the state government had since 1961 published at least 1,016 titles valued for high-quality content. But, little was done to catalogue at least their master copies and only 875 could be retrieved.
 
 Now, the Bureau, now   Textbook and Educational Services Corporation (TNTBESC) responsible for printing Samacheer books for 1.33 crore students, has started reprinting the old books by scanning and scrapping ink marks. It plans to expand it and have a stall at Chennai Book Fair 2018 to display 875 reprinted copies of books published between 1961 and 1980.
 
 Earlier this week, the corporation got 100 copies each of the first 25 books printed, without deviating much from the original in design and content.
 
 More than a 1,000 books, mostly English to Tamil translations, were published by the corporation launched in 1961 to benefit Tamil medium students in colleges.
 
 The importance it was accorded was such that chief ministers M Bakthavatchalam, M   and MG   were its chairpersons.
 
 “Printing and ensuring timely delivery of 10 crore textbooks annually has been our priority. In the 2016-17 budget, school education mi nister earmarked `5 crore for digitisation and reprinting books published by the bureau 40-50 years ago. Effort to collect and reprint them began a year ago,“ managing director   told TOI.
 
 TNTBESC did not have a single copy of the books, and in last September wrote to district libraries, universities and colleges in the state asking them to identify books published by the BTP and TNTS in their possession.
 
 More than 50 colleges responded with books, said TNTBESC consultant (publication) M Appanasamy. “We got multiple copies of a few hundred books and replies for about 200 saying they had books in the library but could not spot them. So we went there and fished out those books from the pile,“ he said.
 
 They managed to collect books published in 875 titles covering 32 categories and fo und the bureau published more than 1,000 books as one of them said it was the 1,016th publication.
 
 The work has just begun.Some books are beyond repair, while the rest need a lot of rework to be re-published.
 
 The pages were scanned and the underlining, scribbling and other marks removed, after which copies of 25 of these books were published earlier this week. About 300 nationalized books by 100 Tamil authors have been identified for republication.The corporation has inked pacts with international publishers and a 20-member committee is working on translating more than 40 books for courses such as medicine, engineering, law and agriculture. Publishing books for competitive exams in Tamil and bringing out children's books in Tamil on various topics are also in the pipeline.
 
