BATHINDA: Driver of the ill-fated bus, which caught fire on Saturday evening leading to the death of three persons and burn injuries to nearly two dozen others, failed to open the front door or stop the vehicle even after noticing the blaze. These startling details have emerged after the   Phool police got footage from a CCTV camera installed near the site of tragedy. Meanwhile, identity of the three charred to death could not be ascertained even on Sunday.

 In the video clip, more than a dozen panicked passengers can be seen jumping out of the rear door of moving luxury bus as it turns into a rolling fireball. Based on this evidence, police have now registered a case of causing death by negligence against owner of the transport company and bus driver though no arrest has been made so far.
 
 The CCTV footage shows that the driver of  , bearing registration number PB 19L 0555, did not stop despite the bus catching fire. Several passengers fell on the ground in the rush to get out. However, they instantly got up and started running away. Meanwhile, the keeps rolling away from the camera slowly. By the time it comes to a stop, there is thick black smoke pouring out of the windows and upper half of the vehicle is engulfed in orange flames. For a few more seconds, other vehicles keeps navigating around the  , till a crowd gathers and all traffic comes to halt.
 
 In the 1.52 minute video clip, no passenger apparently got out of the front door which was apparently bolted with hydraulic system and could not open. The driver jumped out of bus when it stopped at a distance and fled, said the police.
 
 Police are also verifying that whether the bus had permission to ply as a luxury bus and has paid the requisite permit fee after they received an anonymous complaint that it had permit for ordinary travel.
 
 “It was gross negligence of the bus driver which caused death of three passengers and injuries to 21,” said   Deputy Commissioner Diprave Lakra. He said administration was making all out efforts for the treatment of the injured and trying to identify the deceased.
 
 Bathinda SSP Naveen Singla said, “We have registered case against Rayia Transport Company owner   and bus driver Charanjit Singh for causing death by negligence, rash driving, causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others, and causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others.
 
 “The owner has also been booked for not giving proper training to drivers to save valuable lives and driver for gross negligence as he did not stop the bus and some of the passengers had to save their life by jumping off. He also did not open the hydraulic door.”
 
 Passenger Santro Devi of Rampura Phool with 77% burn injuries, Ranjit Singh of Tapa in Barnala with 40%, Neetu of Dabwali with 35% burn injuries have been admitted at Guru Gobind Singh medical college, Faridkot. Later, Ranjit was referred to PGIMER, Chandigarh. Gurpiar Singh of Machhike with 25% burns,   of   with 18%, Gaurav of Rampura with 25%, Prince Goyal of Rampura with 40% have been admitted at Adesh Hospital Bhucho. 13 injured with 10 to 30% burns have been admitted at Civil Hospital, Rampura.
 
