PUNE:   from   bagged the first prize at the   ( ), Ames space settlement contest 2016-17 held recently. 

 Team Aura consisting of Sunandan Wadadekar, Daksh Shah, Maanas Karwa, Atharva Honawale and Uday Yadav; and team Revaton comprising Arsh Maheshwari, Varul Nataraj, Prajwal Savargaonkar, Sayee Rane and Raashi Oswal participated in the contest. They were guided by their mentor Vandana Suryawanshi and principal Nalini Sengupta.
 
 The annual competition conducted by NASA, National Space Society and the San Jose University involves designing a functional colony in space. The participants are required to factor in the effects of gravity, radiation and debris in outer space.
 
 As many as, 200 winners were chosen internationally.
 
 Drama workshop
 
 Drishti Enrichment, master franchise of Helen O’ Grady International, recently conducted drama workshops at Sardar Dastur Nosherwan Girls’ High School, The Bishop’s School, Camp and A.W. Sindhu Vidya Bhavan High School, among others. 
 
 “At Helen O’Grady Drama Academy, we nurture children’s potential, build their confidence and empower them to be the best they can be”, Mansoor Virani, Drishti’s business head, said.
 
 Resource person Swati Natekar emphasized on appropriate expressions, articulation, intonations, voice modulation, right projection and quality of voice to portray one’s character effectively on stage.
 
 Drishti representative Pranati Kalkar said, “Here we do not judge anyone and let students be themselves. They are made to enjoy without the fear of failure.”
 
 . On-the-spot scenes were allotted. This gave students an opportunity to innovate, create their own scenes and dialogues as well as direct their own plays.
 
 “The workshop boosted our confidence through drama as an art form,” Ashutosh Ukale of std VIII from A.W. Sindhu Vidya Bhavan, said.
 
 Cyber olympiad
 
 Aaryan Raskar of std IV from Pawar Public School, Hadapsar stood second in the zone in the recently held Unified Cyber Olympiad (UCO), 2016. The olympiad, a curriculum-based competitive exam, was conducted simultaneously across India and 16 other countries by Unified Council.
 
