GURGAON: Citizens do not need to worry about possible ill-effects of the electromagnetic field (EMF) radiation released from mobile towers as the limits adopted in the country account for all biological effects of radiation, claimed VK Roy, director,  ,   (TERM).

 Roy further said scientific evidence suggested that EMF radiation was unlikely to cause any health hazard if its intensity was below 0.45watt/sqm, which was considered safe by the   on Non-ionising Radiation Protection (ICNIRP) as well as the   (WHO).
 
 “DoT has already laid down strict precautionary norms for Radio Frequency Field (Base Station Emissions), which is 10 times more stringent than the limits prescribed by ICNIRP and WHO. Our EMF norms are stricter than what is followed by many developed nations. Further, the government has taken adequate steps to ensure that telecommunications service providers strictly adhere to the prescribed norms,” he added.
 
 Roy was speaking at a programme on ‘electromagnetic field emissions and mobile towers’ organised by the DoT in the city on Saturday. The event was held as a part of a nationwide public outreach campaign to dispel myths about EMF emissions and quell unfounded fears of citizens through scientific explanations.
 
 In Gurgaon, the awareness programme was organised in view of the increasing number of complaints from residents against installation of mobile towers in residential areas.
 
 MCG commissioner V Umashankar said such awareness programmes would help remove myths. “People should understand the facts and myths, which are largely based on unsubstantiated reports and hinder progress,” he said.
 
 Stressing on the need for bridging the communication gap among the DoT, local bodies, public and other stakeholders, he announced the formation of a district-level committee for speedier disposal of grievances relating to mobile towers in Gurgaon following the DoT guidelines.
 
 Deputy commissioner, Gurgaon, Hardeep Sigh, on the other hand, attributed the increasing number of complaints to wrong perceptions. “Most of the complaints are lodged due to lack of clarity. Such awareness sessions should be conducted in a regular basis to clear such misconceptions,” he added.
 
 NK Chhoker, deputy director general of TERM, said: “Strict monitoring and enforcement mechanism has been put in place by the DoT for EMF-related compliances in Delhi NCR area. One may face penalty and/or closure if found to be violating the prescribed emission norms.”
 
 Chhoker added that mobile towers in the Delhi NCR area were safe and TERM Cell was fully committed to ensure compliance of the guidelines to ensure safety of citizens.
 
