His is a voice that truly transcends boundaries. At a time when Indo-Pak ties have hit a new low in the wake of the Uri attack last year,   has proved that music knows no barriers. His new single — Times Music’s Saware, a duet with Anupama Raag, which features Vartika Singh (Winner Miss Grand International 2015 2nd Runner-Up) and actor Kunal Kemmu — is already a rage. In an exclusive interview with BT, the Sufi maestro fields some tough questions about art, politics and patriotism. Excerpts...

 
 Dono mulkon ki purani music ek hi hai, which is classical. It’s not possible to separate the two countries suddenly. We are connected by emotions. There should be peace and dialogue between us and we should value and respect each other’s jazbaa. Citizens of both the countries want to live peacefully. Like music, I feel sports should also be allowed between India and Pakistan. Such initiatives will resolve differences to a great extent.
 
 
 
 The song was recorded in June; our bilateral ties worsened later. Back then, we didn’t foresee such a situation. A soldier, irrespective of his nationality, is someone’s son, brother, husband, father and beloved. Soldiers don’t have personal enmity towards each other, but are fighting for their countries with unparalleled passion and patriotism. We have to respect each other. 
 
 
 People in Pakistan have also appreciated the song. God willing, it will become a hit there, too. The lead pair, Vartika Singh and Kunal Kemmu, has done a great job. Vartika has exceeded expectations. She was completely involved in the project and has enacted the emotional scenes beautifully in the video. 
 
 
 
 We should respect the country we represent. When it’s about the country, we (artistes) are nothing; we are not above the country. We should condemn terrorism no matter where it takes place, be it in Pakistan, India or any other country, because it’s a heinous crime. We love India and any act of terrorism or dehshatgardi should be condemned. I have done that myself. 
 
 
 
 Pakistan toh dehshatgardi se poore saal guzra hai. Hum sui ke daane par baithe hue hain. What can we say about the situation? Hum toh iss cheez mein ghire hue hain. 
 
 
 
 See, nobody asked me about it (Uri terror attack). I had mentioned right in the beginning that art is not related to terrorism. I had condemned terrorism on my microblogging page. I can’t comment on why other artistes didn’t do the same; they should have ideally done it. 
 
 
 
 Did she say that? I don’t think she is an authority on the subject. So, whoever wants to listen to her advice, they can. Those who don’t want to, should not. But I do not agree with what she has to say.
 
 
 
 Why just restrict it to Bollywood? There have been artistes like Pt Ravi Shankar and Ustad Sultan Khan here. So, how can one not be inspired by India? Being a classical singer, how can one not get inspired by Pandit Bhimsen Joshi? Do you think someone who knows classical music won’t be inspired by Lata Mangeshkar? If you aren’t, you don’t even know the ABC of music. If a person is not inspired by a singer like Noor Jehan, I don’t think that person knows music. 
 
 
 
 (Laughs) I’m not that young and my voice is not the same anymore. If my voice was like Kishore Kumar’s, it would have suited Mr (Amitabh) Bachchan. But unfortunately, that is not so.
 
 
 
 That controversy should end now. I was in Goa when I was offered the song. I had no clue that it was earlier recorded in Arijit’s voice; I learnt of it being dropped only the following day. Arijit is a brilliant singer; he understands his genre and music well.
 
 
 
 Not really, but I am inspired by Spanish and Arabic music. I listen to these two genres and even some good English music.
 
 
 
 Inshallah, I will come soon. As soon as the conditions between the two countries improve, I would love to come.
 
 
 
 Well, I have never tried to create any controversy. I am always out of the country whenever there is one.
 
 
  
  
