BHUBANESWAR: Chief minister   on Saturday unveiled a three-pronged strategy to aggressively reach out to the grassroots and counter the rise of the   in the state.

 Sending out a strong signal that the party is still firmly in his grip, the   president addressed his MPs, MLAs and office-bearers in a first of its kind joint meeting here marking completion of three years of his fourth term. 
 
 He asked them to hold extended executive committee meetings in the districts and hold workshops to make people aware of his government’s welfare initiatives between May 24 and June 30. Naveen completed three years of his current term on Sunday.
 
 The BJD president announced the launch of a campaign, ‘Aama Gaon, Aama Vikas (Our village, our development), from July 1 in which MLAs along with BJD’s district and block observers will hold similar workshops in all panchayats in their assembly constituencies, constitute ward committees and report back to him by September 30. 
 
 It is being seen as a counter to BJP’s “Deen Dayal Upadhya Karya Vistar Yojna,” under which BJP president   is scheduled to be in Odisha for six days, in June and August to bolster the saffron party’s booth level presence.
 
 Thirdly, the regional satrap announced to launch ‘Biju Sathi’ programme to involve volunteers in BJD’s organizational works, what is being seen as a counter-offensive to the BJP’s newly-formed 20,000 workers for booth strengthening job as part of ‘Mo Booth Sabuthu Majboot (my booth most robust)’ programme.
 
 Hitting out at the BJP for its perceived publicity blitzkrieg, without naming the party, Naveen said, “Some parties believe in false publicity. But BJD believes in work. Odisha’s interest is above all for us.”
 
 Analysts feel Naveen’s response to the saffron surge in panchayat elections, in which the BJD lost its vote share by 3% and the BJP went on to form zilla parishad in eight districts, as a shrewd political move.
 
 From a reticent politician that Naveen is, the chief minister recently started posing for selfies with people, started responding to media queries on a daily basis and intensified his social media outreach like never before.
 
 Recently, Naveen held district-wise review of panchayat election results followed by a massive reshuffle of his ministry, dropping 10 ministers and inducting an equal numbers, earlier this month. This was seen as a move for a fresh start for the 2019 poll battle, by rewarding those doing well electorally in rural polls. 
 
 “He seems to have a solid response to the saffron game plan,” an analyst said.
 
 BJP spokesperson Sajjan Sharma, however, said “No strategy will work for the BJD as people have already made up their mind to vote it out in 2019.”
 
