BENGALURU: Here is a good news for the people visiting religious heritage and spiritual places in south India and Maharashtra.

 On the occasion of  , Chief Minister Siddaramaiah on Wednesday launched ' ', a subsidized pilgrimage tour package to various religious places.
 , 
 auding the efforts of the tourism department, Siddaramaiah said, "Karnataka is a land of diverse cultures and religions. People from different faiths undertake tours to several destinations to pay homage of their sacred deities”.
 
 He said 'Puneeta Yatre' will help people from all religious faiths to visit their religious places including temples, churches and mosques and also to explore architectural brilliance of these places.
 
 Priyank Kharge, minister of IT, BT and Tourism said, “We are providing a subsidy of 25% over actual fare which includes transport as well as accommodation”.
 
 A total of 21 tour packages has been designed to places like Shirdi in Maharashtra, Thirupati in   and Sabarimala in Kerala. As many as 24 AC deluxe buses of KSTDCC and KSRTC are deployed for operating these tours. The tours include special darshanas at temple, accommodation facilities at budget-class hotels and tourist guides.
 
 The first phase of the tour will commence on September 27 through 8 packages holy places in Dakshina Kannada, Hoysala and Gomateshwar darshan, North Karnataka pilgrimage tour, pilgrimage places of south India, special darshan of Thirupati Balaji, Thirupati and Kalahasti special, famous temples of south India, Mantralaya darshan and Shiradi darshan. 
 
 Further, second phase will begin on October 15 through 12 packages to north Karnataka tour, famous churches in Karnataka, famous mosques in Karnataka, Dattatraya Chandralamba, Sannati Raghavendra and Saudatti Yellamma darshan, Darshan of Basavanna holy places, Basadi special, Chikka Tirupathi and Kaivara darshan, Yelu Male and Nanjundeshwar Darshan, Gumbaj and Bababudangiri special, Adi Chunchanagiri, Gokarna and Sirsi Marikamba Darshan, Shiridi with five Jyotrilinga darshan, Ayyappa Swamy and Madurai Meenakshi darshan. 
 
 
