AMRITSAR: Unable to access their place of worship for 24 years, Sikhs of Karachi finally got the possession of   and installed Guru Granth Sahib. For 11 years, 11 saroops of Guru Granth Sahib had remained sealed in the gurdwara.

 Talking to TOI over phone from Karachi on Tuesday, president of Sri   Sat Sangh Sabha Hira Singh said that Gurdwara Arambagh was sealed following the court order on July 21, 1993. The action had come under the Section 145 of CrPc of Pakistan as it was a disputed worship property between Sikhs and non-Sikhs.
 
 He said that earlier this month, Sabha took back the possession of the gurdwara and on Monday installed Guru Granth Sahib as per rehat maryada (code of religious conduct). The gurdwara was in possession of police authorities and had 11 saroops of Guru Granth Sahib.
 
 In 2004, however, they managed to take possession of the holy scriptures. “Some of the saroops were old and were sent to India for cremation, while some of the saroop were sent to other gurdwaras in Sindh province,” he said.
 
 He said the gurdwara was not under the management of Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (PSGPC), which worked under the Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB).
 
 “We have our Sabha. In addition, we have formed Guru Nanak Khalsa Welfare Trust for the management of gurdwara and to work for the   We don’t want to be under the purview of PSGPC as it is not an independent body,” he said. ETPB was trying to take control of the gurdwara, he claimed, adding that their gurdwara was strictly under the control of Sikh sangat (community).
 
 “A group of seven advocates including Hindu, Sikh, and Christians has moved the court against PSGPC wresting control of the gurdwara,” he said.
 
 Hira informed that a non Sikh group of Karachi had staked claim on the property of gurdwara by registering itself as Guru Nanak   which was objected to by local Sikhs. They moved the court of Karachi demanding to declare the Mandli as illegal. The case continued for nearly 24 years and finally went in favour of Sikhs.
 
