SECUNDERABAD: Work on diverting a major   on   road has come to a standstill with the   Cantonment Board authorities redesigning their plans. This has inconvenienced residents and owners of business establishments on the road, who say the delay has turned their lives upside down.

 “Work began almost three months ago, but there has been no progress. We can’t move out as the dug-up mud has not been cleared by authorities. It is right in front of my house,” said Srikanth, a resident of Lakshmi Nagar. Residents of this colony, along with  , have been the worst affected.
 
 The change in design of the work has been necessitated due to a water supply trunk main in the vicinity. If the authorities stick to the original plan, it would affect the water supply to a large portion of Secunderabad.
 
 “It is not possible to shift the pipeline. We have redesigned the culvert diversion plan. It may overshoot the schedule by a month. The SCB is spending Rs 70 lakh for the reconstruction of the culvert,” SCB chief executive officer SVR Chandra Sekhar said.
 
 The SCB, which started the work in the second week of March, was scheduled to complete it in July. But going by the current pace, it may cross the deadline by two months. It will also have to relay   after the culvert is diverted.
 
 It was decided to divert the culvert, which was constructed over seven decades ago, as it is now in a bad shape. Its retaining walls have become weak as a large number of vehicles pass on the road above it. According to traffic police, nearly 1.50 lakh vehicles from Safilguda, Malkajgiri, Neredmet, AOC and surrounding areas proceeding towards Secunderabad railway station via Secunderabad Club pass through this road. The traffic has doubled in the last one decade, an SCB engineer said.
 
 The Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board laid the 800 mm water supply trunk main with the financial assistance of Japan International Cooperation Agency five years ago. The pipeline connects Mahendra Hills pump house. 
 
