KOLKATA: A day after the   of the Indian aviation industry announced the decision to do away with stamps on cabin baggage with immediate effect at seven major airports in the country, including Kolkata, authorities here are still in the dark over when the new norm will be implemented in the city.

 Sources said the move may have run into rough weather with the CISF opposing its immediate implementation. Kolkata airport director Atul Dikshit confirmed the   had not yet received the nod from its headquarters in Delhi on the guideline from   (BCAS).
 
 According to a security source, though the trial was successful, CISF is reluctant to roll out the new measure till it has worked out adequate surveillance measures to prevent any bag that is yet to be cleared from slipping out of the security check area. That includes human surveillance as well as CCTVs and smart cameras. “Such infrastructure deployment is not yet complete at all seven airports,“ the source said.
 
 Dikshit though felt the rollout won't be a problem as Kolkata trials in December 2016 went off without a glitch.“When implemented, it will reduce the time taken at security check and boarding gate,“ the director said.
 
 Airlines officials and CISF officers acknowledge it will eventually be a boon but expect some teething issues in the near future. Airlines ground staff are bracing up for queries from flyers perplexed over the change. “ After boarding pass is issued to passengers at check-in desks, they demand hand-bag tags. When stamping is not required, we will also stop issuing tags. Initially, the staff will have a tough time convincing passengers that tags are no longer required. That means more time will be spent at the check-in desk to service each passenger,“ an airline official said.
 
 The airlines expect confusion to persist among a section of flyers as all airports will not be brought under the ambit of the decision.
 
 “People flying in from smaller cities and towns will take longer to accept the change. After all, it has become a part of every flyer's psyche. Till now, passengers used to be sent back from the boarding gate if a CISF jawan at the security checkpoint missed stamping any tag,“ another airline official said.
 
 The first thing that regular flyers do after being frisked is check if their bags have been stamped. When the week-long trials were carried out at Kolkata airport in December 2016, the CISF men were nearly at their wit's end with flyers demanding their tags be stamped, fearing harrassment at the boarding gate.
 
 Once stamping does go, it will be a boon to passengers. It may take only a couple of seconds to stamp the bag.
 
