KOLKATA: At a time when attempts to develop ethanol-blended bio-fuel is high on the ministry of petroleum and natural gas’s agenda, an IIT-Kharagpur research has shown it is possible to extract a high percentage of fuel from  , like   and grass. 

 The research, highlighted in a recent issue of the globally acclaimed journal ‘Nature (Scientific Reports)’, claims that a pore scale phenomena can be used that results in four-fold increase in the yield of fermentable sugars and bioethanol from hemicelluloses. Hyacinth contains up to 50% hemicelluloses, which are natural polymers present along with the cellulose of plant cell walls. The research is based on the idea that in order to produce commercially viable, low-carbon-footprint biofuel, one has to supplement cellulosic ethanol with hemi cellulosic alcohols. While cellulose is used for cellulosic fuel production, hemicelluloses are often ignored as biofuel sources, primarily because surface reactions are capable of releasing only a quarter of the soluble sugars for bioethanol production. 
 
 The IIT-Kharagpur study explains that the secret to rapidly producing soluble sugars required for bioethanol production from hemicelluloses lies in their pores. The average cellulose to hemicellulose ratio in plant cell walls is slightly below 2:1, suggesting that supplementing cellulosic fuels with hemi cellulosic ones would enhance biofuel productivity and cost-effectiveness by more than 50%. This is perhaps the highest yield that any research has promised so far. Simultaneous production of cellulosic and hemi cellulosic fuels from the same biomass source would considerably improve the combined Net Energy Value (energy content of ethanol minus energy output) for cellulosic ethanol (about 21.5 MJ/lit), the article in ‘Nature’ explains.
 
 “Increasing the polymer’s porosity and swelling will eventually lead to increase in bioethanol,” said Saikat Chakraborty, faculty of the chemical engineering, department and lead researcher of the   group of the institute.
 
