KOLKATA: Prepare to shell out more to commute, be it by   or public  . A  , announced on Wednesday, will lead to a rise in cost of all commodities with the   (IRDA) bringing in up to 50% increase in premium for car, bikes, buses and trucks.

 Private bus operators, lifeline to 65% city commuters, threatened to go on strike if they fail to get the fare revised after meeting the transport minister on April 1.
 
 The goods transport sector is going for an indefinite strike from April 1. “We hope all of the 3.5 lakh trucks in Bengal keep off the road. We demand rollback of the unilateral decision of IRDA. This would lead to the collapse of the transport sector that has somehow managed to withstand the successive assault of diesel price hike,” said Mahinder Singh Gill, president of Federation of West Bengal Truck Operators Association, the biggest body of truck operators in the state.
 
 “We are already in a hand-to-mouth situation due to massive increase in cost of operation. Many have left the trade. But we are still operating as our commitment is to the society. The state government has refused to raise the fare. After profuse bleeding, the trade will have a natural death,” said Tapan Bandyopadhyay of joint council of bus syndicate. He, along with representatives of seven other associations, will meet the transport minister after an agitation in front of the Paribahan Bhavan.
 
 The diesel price hike by Rs 13 per litre in last six months in eight installments has proved to be a body blow for the transport sector. The steep hike in premium could be a death knell for lakhs of trucks and buses in Bengal. “We sincerely want the state government to raise the fare so that the trade can survive. If the government does honour our demands, we don’t have to go on strike,” said Bandyopadhyay.
 
 General insurance companies are not too happy with the extent of revision in the third-party (TP) motor insurance rates. The TP portfolio, a loss-making proposition for all the insurance companies, is regulated by IRDA. The average loss-ratio for the industry is as high as 130%, which implies for every Rs 100 income, expense is Rs 130. The IRDA started revising TP rates every year from 2013.
 
 A former official of National Insurance Company said most of the insurers are not very happy because premiums have not been revised proportionately. “Most of them feel the premium in the commercial category should have been more,” he added. Rakesh Jain, CEO of Reliance General Insurance Company, pointed out the largest category of vehicle, the under-1000cc category, has been spared despite the inflation factor. 
 
 “The chances of break-even will be less,” he added.
 
 
