BHOPAL: In a major initiative to control blood-related disorders in Madhya Pradesh, the government on Tuesday decided to set up a bone-marrow transplantation (BMT) facility at MY Hospital, Indore.

 In two crucial decisions affecting the state capital, the state cabinet approved a proposal to increase 100 MBBS seats in Gandhi Medical College (GMC) Bhopal to meet the shortage of doctors in the state and gave the nod for transfer of land in South TT Nagar Bhopal from   (BDA) to   (BMC) for Smart City development.
 
 “An ultra-modern bone-marrow transplantation (BMT) centre will be established in MY Hospital Indore for treatment of blood disorders like blood cancer, thalassemia, aplastic anemia and other diseases. The government has also selected a team of doctors and provided them training for the same,” said state legislative affairs and public relations minister Narrottam Mishra.
 
 Mishra said the state cabinet approved the proposal and government has taken up the work with immediate effect. This would be a boon for the patients suffering from blood disorders, he said.
 
 Referring to expansion of 100 MBBS seats in GMC, he said, all possible facilities will be provided to the six new government medical colleges including generating new posts, providing necessary equipment, furniture and vehicles for the colleges.
 
 “The cabinet approved a sum of Rs 119.68 crore for generating facilities and 555 new posts for medical colleges in Chhindwara, Ratlam, Shahdol, Shivpuri, Khandwa and Vidisha. The cabinet has also approved outsourcing services for this,” Mishra said.
 
 Apart from this, the cabinet approved Rs 900 crore in the state budget for a new scheme called CM rural drinking water programme. The scheme would provide hand pumps in 10,000 rural settlements and works will undertake in 5,000 rural areas in 2017-18, said Mishra.
 
 A CM young professionals for development plan was approved under which government will involve youth and utilise their energy towards development plans. For the project, government will select 51 CM research associates and 6 programme coordinators, he said.
 
 The state government also cleared the transfer of land in South TT Nagar to Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) from Bhopal Development Authority (BDA) as Smart City area based development is proposed in 342 acres here. The Smart City Project has got clearance by most of the departments, including the revenue department. After cabinet approval the project will be submitted to the Ministry of Urban Development for a final nod.
 
 The cabinet also cleared some road projects and three irrigation projects, said Mishra.
 
