NEW DELHI: A day before the 2017 Indian Premier League players' auction,   has been replaced as the captain of   by Australian skipper  , the franchise said on Sunday.

 Confirming the development, RPS owner Sanjiv Goenka said, "Yes we have opted for Steve Smith as captain of RPS for the forthcoming   season. I have been thinking about this decision since the end of the last season and discussing it with my management team. And our thought is to have a younger captain at the helm of the team this year. We have a very good mix of youth and experience in the team and feel we need a young mind and a young captain with different ideas to spearhead Rising Pune Supergiants."
 
 RPS had finished seventh in their maiden season last year. 
 
 Goenka conceded, "We could have done much better. I have one more year as a franchisee owner and I want to give it my best. I have the luxury of two current international captains in my team. I feel Steve can make a difference. He will get all the support he needs to lead Rising Pune Supergiants." 
 
 Confirming he had spoken to Dhoni about the decision, Goenka was all praise for his former skipper. "Mahi was cooperation personified when we conveyed the decision to him. I don't need to tell you that he is a great player and captain and there is no doubt he remains a backbone of the team as a batsman and wicket-keeper. From Dhoni the captain I have learnt a lot. Especially his ability to remain calm under pressure. And we will need him to be at his best this year as player. In my opinion he is one of the sharpest minds I have known and will always be there to advise and help Steve.” 
  
 Stating that the Australian skipper was excited about the opportunity, Goenka said, "Steve is keen to make a difference and has already discussed things with   our coach. He has fresh ideas and is a great player. I am confident we will do much better with a new captain at the helm." 
  
 Before being appointed as the Pune skipper last year, Dhoni was part of the now suspended Chennai Super Kings for the first eight seasons of IPL. He led them to successive IPL titles in 2010 and 2011 apart from two Champions League T20 titles (2010 & 14). 
 
 Pune had a forgettable debut season where they suffered from injury issues and will be aiming to plug the gaps at the auction by picking up a fast bowler and an allrounder.
 
 Smith has already been sounded out for inputs.
 
