LUKCNOW: One after the other, as many as six teenagers committed suicide in the city in past three months. Incidentally, all children shot themselves with firearms belonging to their family members. Child   and   in the city said it is the phenomenon of “contemporary conformity” that led them to follow the same method and end their lives. The term used refers to a situation when any news or information about the method of suicide   a person with suicidal tendency to use it.

 “Children with suicidal tendency, on hearing stories about other adolescents opting for a particular method to end life, perceive it as a tried and tested way that can be useful to them in future,” said Manju Agarwal, professor of psychology in a private college.
 
 She added, “In other words, it is called the trigger message effect when a particular phenomenon is spread in the society through various modes of communication and then people tend to follow it. For example, according to figures, the number of brutal rape cases have increased after that horrendous Nirbhaya Case was reported, it is also due to unconscious conformity in the society.”
 
 Backing the belief, Dr S C Tiwari, a senior psychiatrist and head of the geriatric department from   said while the   of conformity explained the coincidence, peer influence and availability of weapon are other major reasons of why all the deceased opted for similar way to end their lives.
 
 “It is already known that teenagers are easily influenced by their peer group and generally tend to learn through imitation, be it a novel fad or a bad habit. Similarly, children with suicidal instincts think if one has shot himself, they can do it too.”
 
 Another psychologist from the city Prof P K Khatri said, “Licensed firearms at home are like ready availability of a suicidal tool that fills the victims with certainty that their efforts wouldn’t go in vain. Sometimes the situation may be reversed, a disappointed teenager thinking of killing himself may get prompted when he sees a gun and may take the adverse step in a fit of passion.”
 
 
