SHIMLA: A woman fell for a man who claimed to be a British national on Facebook, only to be duped of Rs 25 lakh. Police tracked the accused, who turned out to be a   living in Delhi. The state   registered a case of cheating by impersonation and dishonestly inducing delivery of property and criminal conspiracy under the Information Technology Act on April 11 on the complaint of the victim.

 In her police complaint, she said the accused, who identified himself as a businessman from the   contacted her on Facebook. After some time, they exchanged phone numbers and started chatting on Whatsapp. She said the accused even proposed marriage. 
 
 One day, she said, the accused said he wanted to send her a few gifts from the United Kingdom. After a few days, she said, she started receiving various communications from “courier agency, custom department and RBI” to deposit the money in various accounts for release of the gift items. The complainant said she was cheated of Rs 25 lakh by unidentified persons.
 
 Himachal Pradesh DIG, CID-cyber crime, Dr Vinod Kumar Dhawan said during investigation, different digital and conventional methods and tools were used to collect relevant evidence against the suspects. He said a team headed by inspector Vinod Thakur, including head constable Anupam, constable Yaman and constable Ashwani Patial was sent to Delhi to investigate and apprehend the accused. He also said the team camped in Delhi for around one month and finally apprehended the accused on May 23.
 
 He said the accused was identified as Frank Oguejiofor, 31, a resident of Orj City village, Enuguwnkwu, Nampr state in Nigeria. At present, he lives in Mahabeer Enclave, New Delhi. He was remanded in police custody and will be produced in court on May 29. On interrogation, police found that the accused was involved in many such cyber offences. “He came to India on a medical visa April 2015. After sometime, he started engaging in cyber fraud,” Dhawan said. 
 
 The accused told the police he was arrested in Haryana in a similar case last year. Dhawan said police recovered six ATMs, three mobile phones and five mobile sim cards along with Rs 45,000 from the possession of the accused.
 
