Screen adaptations of books are common. But ace screenwriter   has turned that trend on its head by adapting NTR-starrer   into a novel in English. But, why would anyone want to read an English novel based on a   action drama? That too two years after it hit the screens? “Well, it might have been out in Telugu two years ago, but Temper is being remade in Tamil, Kannada and Hindi currently. That proves it has a universal appeal. As a writer, I want to take my story to a wider audience so I decided to write it in English,” explains Vamsi. Apparently, the novel, which took Vamsi six-eight months to write, will have the climax that he had originally conceived when he first wrote the story for Temper. “The book will have a different ending for sure, but you will have to read the book to find out,” he says adding, “I can assure you the climax will be more hard hitting and honest than what you saw in the movie.”
Everything else about the story will be the same as the film; only more layered and in depth. “Writing a novel gives you more liberty to stay true to the story. The novel will be more nuanced and the characterisation of the protagonist, Daya, will have more layers to it,” explains Vamsi. 
 Admittedly, it all began with the lead character, Daya. “No character is either plain good or bad, as they tend to be in our films. Morality is often a result of the environment we live in. As an orphan who takes to petty robberies to get by, Daya 
 figures that becoming a cop is better than being a thief, when he sees the policeman who arrested him taking bribes. So that is why we had no sad backstory to explain why Daya is a corrupt cop. In the same police station, Daya’s conscience is awakened when he learns about the brutal rape and murder of his girlfriend’s sister,” he explains. The process of taking a story originally written in Telugu, and re-writing it in English wasn’t so much of a challenge, he says. “Bhavam clear ga unte bhasha problem avvadu. Pekata pekate thammudu thammude lanti lines English ro rayalekpovachhu kani, essence will still be the same,” he says, signing off.
 
