Phagwara: The Phagwara Municipal Corporation has written to the Kapurthala SSP, raising bill of Rs 65 lakh for the Phagwara SP’s office occupying its rest house since 1994. The bill has been raised after the Punjab comptroller and auditor general (CAG) team raised objections and computed the rent of the premises.

 In a letter to the Kapurthala SSP, MC Assistant Commissioner Surjit Singh has mentioned that the team from CAG has held that over Rs 65.70 lakhs should be recovered as rent of the premises. The letter has also mentioned that on October 27, 1994, the MC had conducted the evaluation and the annual rent was computed to be Rs 1,32,750 and then the MC had also asked the police to deposit monthly rent of Rs 11,062, but no money was deposited.
 
 The MC official’s letter has also sent the audit department computation in which the rent was increased by 20% after every three years. Copies of this letter have also been sent to the additional chief secretary, home, and the Punjab DGP.
 
 Meanwhile, the MC has also slapped a notice on City Club Phagwara, headed by the Kapurthala DC, asking to deposit over Rs 3.24 crores as rent for land held by it. While the DC is president of the club, the Phagwara ADC is the senior vice president. It is recreational place for the officials and well-off residents of the town who are its members. The notice has been sent to the club secretary and its copy has also been sent to the Kapurthala DC.
 
 In its notice, the MC has mentioned that the rent had been computed by the CAG officials from the year 2003 to 2016. It has also mentioned that land measuring 8 kanals and five marlas was given to the club at monthly rent of Re 1 in 1966 for five years and then it was increased by 20 paise per month while extending the lease for another five years. It mentioned that in 2003, the MC passed a resolution to renew the agreement with City Club at 10% of the market rate after which the director, local government, asked that the market value of the land be get assessed through the DC. Latter, in 2005, assessed its market value at Rs 1.60 cores and 10% of this, Rs 16 lakhs became the annual rent of the club.
 
 The CAG officials computed the total rent with increase of 20% after every three years. The notice has also threatened that if this amount would not be deposited then legal action would be initiated and the club could also be sealed.
 
 When contacted, City Club secretary Naresh Bharadwaj said he had apprised the DC of the issue.
 
 
