INDORE: Indian   Association (IMA) will form a   and hold elections in all five medical colleges of the district to elect student leaders for the proposed   – Medical Students Network (IMA-MSN).

 “As per directives received from IMA, the local body will hold election in MGM, Index, SAIMS, Sevakunj Hospital & Research Centre and   to form a students’ wing in the next 15 days,” IMA’s Indore chapter president Dr Sanjay Londhe told TOI.
 
 He added that the motive behind constituting a students’ body is to provide them a platform where they can raise issues like fees, infrastructure, curriculum, etc.
 
 MGM, SAIMS and Index medical college has 750 students each while Sevakunj and Amaltas medical college has 150 students each.
 
 As decided, all medical students (MBBS students) and interns studying in India will be members of IMA-MSN and will be known as E-members of IMA.
 
 “The local branch of IMA has 1,803 members and is the biggest branch in terms of numbers. With the medical students’ body, Indore chapter is only going to increase its strength,” Londhe added.
 
 The name, email id and phone number of students will be taken down to enroll them for the membership which will be free.
 
 “IMA-MSN will have a chairman, five vice chairmen and a coordinator at a national level and one coordinator from each state, all of whom will be IMA leaders,” he said.
 
 There will be a student convenor for each Medical college as well as for each zone and state. This body is to coordinate the activities nationally. Committees may be constituted for various activities at the national and state level in addition to having other office-bearers in states to facilitate better functioning of the student network.
 
 As per instructions received from IMA, zonal meetings will be held within two months in all zones where all college and state student convenors and coordinators will participate. At these meetings, the organisational framework will be discussed and a plan of action will be chalked out.
 
 Londhe added that medical students network’s national convention is planned later this year.
 
 
