P   became an   Master (IM) last week, but it was a difficult journey for the 14-year-old Erode boy. Iniyan was robbed of his "practice ground" - the laptop - in Barcelona, as he was on his way to Lorca to take part in an event. 

 "A highly-advanced laptop is like a practice ground for a chess player. I was on my way to Lorca with my mother (P Saranya) as part of a two-month journey to   and Italy to achieve the IM title, when the robbery happened," Iniyan, who became  's 32nd IM and is currently in   to take part in the Sharjah Masters tournament, told TOI. 
 
 Iniyan and his mother still has nightmares about that cold night in Barcelona. "It was approximately two degrees and in the blink of an eye, my laptop was stolen. I just didn't know what to do," the chess player said.
 
  Explaining the importance of his laptop for a chess player, Iniyan said: "I work with the laptop for 10 hours a day. When we are on road, we can't search for partners to play and thus it becomes our playing partner as well. I had a special software installed in it. It had all the data about the players I have countered, my plans, their weaknesses, my coach K Visweswaran's inputs and my entire history from the age of seven. Losing it was a big blow." 
 
  Saranya said they had no support whatsoever after the incident happened. "I tried to reach out to the police but there was little support and we were asked to see the commissioner of police of Barcelona. We had to leave immediately as we couldn't afford to miss the tournament. My husband   advised us to head for the next venue," said Saranya, who accompanies Iniyan to all tournaments abroad. 
 
 "Even if I bought new laptop, the lost data couldn't have been retrieved. And I wouldn't have been able to download the specific software that I needed due to technical reasons," Iniyan said.
 
 The challenge for him was to achieve two norms in two months in two major tournaments - one in Spain followed by another in Italy - to become an IM. "But without my laptop, things really looked difficult," Iniyan said.
 
 Though Saranya has little knowledge about the game, she helped his son in whatever way she could. "She miraculously downloaded a couple of chess apps on her mobile. My father emailed me a few important chess files from India which helped me in my practice," Iniyan said. But he had to do go through all the date on a mobile, and staring at such a small screen for long hours led to problems in his eyes.
 
  "I started getting headaches frequently. But somehow I overcame all that. Luckily for me, there were two matches on the same day for all the participants. So my competitors also didn't have much time to prepare. I backed my instincts. I spoke to my coach through skype and got his inputs," said Iniyan, a ninth standard student in Indian Public School. 
 
 
