NAGPUR: Dr  , a medical officer at   (ESIS) dispensary in Somwari Peth, wrote his first letter to the editor in 1992 as a hobby. To date, Kamble’s 6,500 letters on various issues have been published in various newspapers. He has also submitted documents to claim the   World Record for most letters to the editor published in a year in a single newspaper.

 “I started with writing about local issues in south Nagpur — bad condition of roads, broken pipelines, lack of state transport etc. I don’t claim to be the only driving force behind the changes that occurred later, but authorities found an active citizen. Today, all issues I wrote about have been looked at,” he says.
 
 Kamble used to write in Hindi, but from this year he has also started attempting English as a medium for writing the letters. He is also eyeing foreign newspapers to get his letters published.
 
 Kamble recently submitted documents to claim the Guinness World record for getting most letters to the editor published in a year in a single newspaper. From January 5, 2016 to December 31, 2016, 224 of Kamble’s letters have been published in a local Marathi daily ‘Lokshahi Varta’. Kamble’s figures surpass the last record, which is held by   for getting 214 letters published in newspaper ‘Aaj’ in 2007.
 
 But how effective are the letters written to an editor? Kamble says, “As a writer, I want to express my views on some topics. Sometimes other readers resonate with the idea, and the topic does get the deserved attention.” 
 
 Kamble has written about issues like future water crisis, Ambedkar’s thoughts for all, entire Kashmir belonging to India, compost toilets, destruction of terrorist camps, Kalahandi’s poverty, making smaller states, global power, necessity of Atrocity Act, patriotism, and more. He hopes to bring justice to India’s Dalit, tribals, exploited, deprived people though his writings.
 
 A resident of Hanuman Nagar, Kamble, 46, has already created a Guinness record for most letters to editor published in one year in multiple newspaper in 2005. After that, in 2010, he also entered the Limca Book of records and India Book of Records. Kamble says he wants to show that he can enter the Guinness by writing in Marathi language too.
 
 “I spend about half-an-hour writing each day, in which I manage to write about 5-6 letters. I’ve become habituated to writing on various local, national and international topics,” he says. 
 
 Talking about how his interested in writing letters started, Kamble recalls seeing a Guinness book at the annual book fair held at Kasturchand Park every year. “I checked if anyone had made a record by writing letters to the editor, and found that an Israeli held the record for getting merely 192 letters published. That when I thought of applying,” he says.
 
