BENGALURU:   veteran C K   has differed from his party stand and backed   chief   for the President's post, which falls vacant in July when Pranab Mukherjee's term ends. In a letter to Prime Minister  , copies of which were released to the media on Saturday, Sharief said nobody should have objections to Bhagwat's candidature.

 “There are different schools of thought in India and it is but natural for such a vast country. Bhagwat may belong to one school of thought but there should be no doubt about his patriotism, love for the people of India and loyalty to the nation,“ he added.
 
 Sharief, 84, wrote: “As a Muslim and a person belonging to the minority community of India, I feel that minorities should not have any fear or crisis of confidence in Bhagwat's name being considered." Sharief's surprising view is contrary to the Congress party's stand on this issue. The Shiv Sena had recently suggested that Bhagwat be made the next President, but the Congress opposed it and said it would announce its candidate.
 
 Sharief said that during Indira Gandhi's regime, the RSS had supported her in her decisions after the Bangladesh war of 1971 in the interest of the nation. “Why should anyone now become small and narrow-minded to say we have no faith and confidence in an Indian, who is a patriot and who is wedded to democracy and also working for the welfare of the people?“ he asked.
 
 The letter is bound to embarrass the Congress, which suffered a setback after former Union minister S M Krishna joined the BJP recently. The Congress has been contemplating action against Sharief, former KPCC president B Janaradhana Poojary and a few others for their antiparty stance over the past few months due to their vocal opposition to the government in Karnataka.
 
 Reacting to the letter, KPCC working president Dinesh Gundu Rao said the party has distanced itself from Sharief's opinion. “It is not the opinion of the party. It's the individual opinion of a senior Congressman and does not express the view of the party." Rao said the party machinery is currently active in campaigning for the Nanjangud and Gundlupet bypolls and will consider the next step in this matter after the elections.
 
