Delhi has had its share of thieves who like the finer things in life – Rolex watches,  , Chanel perfumes and pashmina shawls. They are suave, sophisticated and stylish. And their style reflects in the things they steal, often in a fashion that could easily make it to a film script. Cops in the city tell us that though such luxury item thefts are not very common in the capital, their frequency is increasing.

 
 
 Last week, the Delhi Police arrested a frequent flyer who has a taste for expensive perfumes. But he doesn’t steal them. He buys them from the airport’s Duty Free shop with credit cards stolen from other flyers. Talking about the thief, a police official told us, "He is one of those criminals who use their brains to commit a crime." And he did it with so much sophistication, that the Delhi Police calls him the airport’s Bunty, after the infamous Bunty chor, who was the inspiration for ' Oye Lucky! Lucky Oye!'
 
 The thief, Rajesh Kapoor, purchased 16 bottles of Chanel, worth over Rs 1.5 lakh, using the stolen credit cards. Kapoor, who lived in Singapore for two years, told the police that the idea came to him while travelling. A police official told us, "He used to book flights bound for international destinations after a domestic stopover, so that he could target foreigners." Another official adds, “Most people judge others by their looks. And if someone looks well off, they don’t think of him as a criminal and let their guard down. That’s what these thieves take advantage of."
 
 
 
 
  
  Sonam Kapoor plays a con artist in   who cons rich men, gets media attention and is even labelled as ‘looteri dulhan’
 
 
 
 
 
 A case was registered last month, at Tughlaq Road Market police station, after a shopkeeper at Khan Market found one of the pashminas missing from her stock. CCTV footage showed a woman stealing it. A police official at Khan Market tells us, "Although Khan Market gets the best crowd in the city, shoplifting is still common there. However, with CCTV cameras, it has become easier to spot the thieves. In this particular case, the woman was arrested from her house in Greater Kailash, and the shawl that she stole was worth Rs 4.5 lakh! The way she picked up one of the most expensive shawls in the store was quite surprising. A regular thief would have picked up anything from the store, but she had knowledge of it. She told us that she was planning to return it after using it."
 
 Madhur Verma,  , tells us, "Such glamorous criminal acts are nothing new. Although, we don’t come across luxurious items’ thefts on a daily basis, they are increasingly becoming regular. We can’t classify these thieves under sections. While some operate as individuals, there are others who operate as gangs, this breed that steals expensive items, definitely has knowledge of it. Every year, there is one such high-end theft that makes you think of its magnitude! Last year, i Phones worth Rs 5-6 crore were recovered from multiple robbery cases.”
 
 
 
 
  
  Hrithik Roshan in   disguises himself in multiple ways to commit high-end heists
 
 
 
 
 
 In the past, thieves have also targeted expensive designerwear. In January 2015, Ritu Kumar’s entire bridal couture collection was stolen. Police sources say, "The collection, close to Rs 60 lakh was stolen from the designer’s store in South Extension market. Delhi has numerous designer stores, but this case was one of the rare ones, as we do not see thieves targeting the luxury market so often. The entire collection was stolen from the store!"
 
 Vijay Singh, the DCP who has investigated several crime cases in the north-west district, tells us, "It’s not common. We get to hear about such cases just once or twice a year. During interrogation, we get to know that a number of times, luxury cars are stolen only when there is a demand for such cars; same applies for other luxury items too. Glam thefts are different from regular cases, as they are well-planned, and executed on demand. The thieves who target luxury items are mostly without any criminal history, and want to maintain a certain lifestyle. The easiest way they think is through crime."
 
 
 
 In one of the biggest thefts of high-end items in the capital, 100 Rolex watches worth `8-10 crore were stolen from a store in Connaught Place in September 2014. The watches stolen were not only handmade, but also antique. A police officer tells us, "There was no CCTV camera in the shop, which was quite shocking for us. This case is often discussed, even today, as it was on a grand scale and it wasn’t done by a regular thief. A small-time robber would have targeted gold jewellery first. Reselling watches that cost lakhs of rupees is tough."
 
 Talking about the thefts of high-end items, a constable says, "Sometimes, it happens that some of us who are investigating the case are not aware about those high-end brands, and we think – ‘Iss chor ki bhi aukat hai!’"
 
 
 
 
 
 
