NAGPUR: Functioning of all three RTOs remained affected following the 22nd amendment of  , which was brought into enforcement from Friday with an exponential increase in fee of licence, driving test and fitness tests. The procedure of issuing of a driving licence including driving tests which used to cost Rs250 will now cost Rs500. This, however, will increase further by Rs300 every time an individual sits for a repeat driving test.

 As soon as the order reached the RTO department in Nagpur, all types of acceptance of fee for driving licence and other 27 categories were put on hold and the applicants were being sent home in the morning hours. It was only later that a fresh order reached to take fee by means of manual receipts that it was decided to continue the work as usual from Saturday onwards.
 
 Nagpur rural RTO Sharad Jichkar, who is also in-charge of Nagpur city and east office, said the fee has been increased for the first time after 1989 and this is the reason that there is a huge gap between the old fee and the new fee. According to RTO officials, the amendment was done on July 28, 2016 and had invited objections in 30 days time but as no objections came they came into force on January 6, though the official gazette was published on December 29.
 
 As per the amendment, a learning licence that was earlier issued with a fee of Rs30 will now cost Rs150 with an extra charge of driving test fee of Rs50, which was not there at all earlier.
 
 On Saturday, as the system of the RTO was not updated as per the   structures, initially the offices have stopped accepting fees and even sent back the applicants home. But later, they started accepting fees by issuing both computerized receipt (for old fees) and manual receipt (for revised fees). To a query, Jichkar said the new software will be updated by next week, especially by Monday and starting then the work can be carried out easily.
 
 However, the move has caused great inconvenience to many visitors and at east office in Chikhli area, several people resorted to raise slogans after they found fees counters closed. Similar was the situation at rural office.
 
 
