CHANDIGARH: All   have said that they will not let a drop of the state's   go to Haryana under the  . If the water is so precious to them, they better find ways of removing the muck that is floating in the same waters today.

 A report authored by   (CPCB) and   (PPCB), says all four main rivers ­ Satluj, Ravi, Beas and Ghaggar ­ have a heavy dose of   which has crossed permissible limit of 500 per 100 ml.
 
 These are startling numbers when you consider that these rivers are virtually the lifeline of Punjab with the water being used for everything ­ drinking, bathing, and irrigating the fields. Coliforms are a broad class of bacteria generally found in the feces of humans and other warmblooded animals. Their presence in drinking water can cause vomiting, diarrhea, urinary tract infection, pneumonia and other fevers.
 
 The report points out that the main cause of pollution in Satluj is discharge from Budha Nalah in Ludhiana but also discloses that sewage from sewage treatment plants (STPs) such as one in Bhattian near Ludhiana are discharging their waste into the river. The report further says that only 67 out of 199 STPs set up in the last decade are functioning. “Work of 40 STPs of 449.3 million litres daily (MLD) in 33 towns is in progress and 55 STPS of 281 MLD capacity are yet to start.“
 
 The old problem of lack of funds is holding back 37 more STPS. “Although the sewage treatment plants have been installed in major cities located on catchment area of the rivers, it is observed that many STPs are not of adequate capacity , as a result of which the untreated or partially treated sewage is discharged,“ the report discloses.
 
 The report says that the rivers are also affected with hazardous waste including iron and sulphur from pharmaceutical and drug companies with suggestions that Punjab must have more common effluent treatment plants (CETP) in Pathankot, Ropar, Jalandhar and Ludhiana.
 
 Two out of 16 points of sample collection along the Satluj have seen a meteoric increase in level of fecal coliform count (FCC). This includes the infamous Budha Nalah confluence in Ludhiana where the FCC count has jumped from 8,667 to 31,000 in the past five years while it has jumped from 6,300 to 27,000 at Boat Bridge point in Dharamkot near Jalandhar.
 
