BENGALURU: Residents in all major Indian cities -Bengaluru, Chennai, Delhi, Hyderabad, Ahmedabad and Mumbai, among others -have been protesting against unscientific dumping of solid waste, but the fact that 70% of all the garbage generated continues to be “unscientifically disposed of “every day is no good news.

 Data accessed from the   (CPCB), based on reports from various state boards, shows the total quantity of municipal solid waste generated -only from cities and towns - in the country is 1,42,870 (1.43 lakh) tonnes per day , and 9% (12,858 tonnes) of it is not even collected.
 
 Of the 91% (1.3 lakh tonnes) collected, the CPCB says: “Around 50% (65,000 tonnes) of the collected solid waste is dumped or disposed of unscientifically in the country.“ Further, only 23% (29,903 tonnes) is treated, while 27% (35,103 tonnes) is dumped into landfills, which environmentalists say , is also “unscientific dumping“.
 
 In all, 1.13 lakh tonnes or 70% of the 1.43 lakh tonnes of waste is being disposed of unscientifically. While the CPCB says that such dumping “is not area specific“, experts and activists say the increasing number of citizen protests is only because of the “pick-up and dump“ atti tude of local bodies.
 
 Conceding this, Union minister for urban development M  , in a letter dated April 5, 2017, sent to all mayors and heads of municipalities, reads: “Municipal solid waste management is one of the biggest challenges that confronts our cities. Improper and unscientific handling of waste has its impact not only in terms of environmental and aesthetics of the surroundings but also poses a serious potential threat to public health.“
 
 He further writes that beginning June 5 -World Environment Day -the urban development ministry will start a massive movement to begin segregation at source in all 4,041 towns and has urged the authorities to set a target of October 2, 2017, to achieve 100% segrega tion.
 
 Satyarupa Shekhar of the Citizen Consumer and   (CAG), Chennai, says: “Most major cities have reached critical levels of waste and are looking for solutions. Unfortunately , they invariably turn to technologies, which rather than address the problem, create new ones. On an average, waste in most Indian cities comprises 50%70% organic waste, 5%-10% sanitary waste and the rest is plastic and e-waste. Organic waste can be composted easily at household and ward levels to create valuable compost that can be used for gardening and urban agriculture.“
 
 Sanskriti Menon of the Centre for   (CEE) says civic bodies must invest in helping citizens understand the importance of waste collection and recycling. “While protests in multiple cities helped high light the problem, the pick-up and dump way of dealing with waste is no solution,“ she added.
 
 She is not alone in pointing out that just dumping of garbage into landfills isn't the solution. Activists like Leo Saldanha of the   in Bengaluru and those from Civic Action Group (CAG) in Chennai, have been advocating segregation at source as critical for waste management.
 
 However, another key indicator of the government's “pick-up and dump“ philosophy is the latest draft released by the CPCB on creating buffer zones around landfills. The buffer zone, the draft guidelines say, is defined as an area of restricted activities.
 
 While its primary goal is to “reduce impact of such dumping on environment and people“, the guidelines, released in February 2017, read: “It also ensures long-term availability of disposal sites by avoiding potential conflicts between disposal sites and adjacent land use.“
 
 But so long as garbage is just going to be dumped, people will continue to protest, warn activists. Ranjit Gadgil of Parisar in Pune says: “The way landfills work is contentious. While local bodies either do this, or spend crores of rupees on what they believe are magical solutions like big processing plants or waste-to-energy set-ups, there must be more investment in organizing and training waste collectors and educating the public.“
 
 Sanskriti adds that while agencies and the system understand the need for door-to door collection of waste and segregation -key to taking materials to the recycling sector -its implementation is found lacking in most cities.
 
