Panaji: India’s preparations for the Fifa Under-17 World Cup at home later this year have been hindered again.
 
  A scheduled training trip to the United States had to be cancelled early this month for want of sufficient time to procure visas and another trip to   has now been delayed by at least five days.
  
  The Indian team was expected to reach Mexico for three important friendlies, including one against World Cup group opponents Colombia, on July 26. But it will not be until July 31 that the team will now assemble in Mexico City.
  
  “Unfortunately, because of visa and later ticketing issues, the team is forced to leave in batches. The first batch (with nine players) left this morning, some will leave on Sunday and the last batch with about five players should be in Mexico early on July 31. It’s not an ideal situation but we were left with no choice,” All India   Federation ( ) general secretary   told TOI on Saturday.
  
  According to AIFF sources, the Mexican embassy in Delhi refused to issue visas to the team, unless the Mexican Football Federation produced their bank statement in support of the minor under-17 footballers. AIFF’s counterparts in Mexico were quick in dispatching the documents to the Mexican embassy but the courier is understood to have taken four days to reach the Capital.
  
  Once the visas were issued, there were other unexpected problems. Flights out of Delhi to Mexico City were all running full, leaving AIFF with no choice but send the team in three separate batches, the first of which left early on Saturday.
  
  Portuguese coach Luis Norton de Matos will leave with the second batch on Sunday.
  
  India have a tight match schedule in Mexico where they will play three friendlies against Mexico (August 3), Colombia (August 4) and Chile (August 6).
  
  The AIFF has now asked the organisers to reschedule their last two friendlies against Colombia and Chile by a day.
  
  The squad is preparing for the Fifa Under-17 World Cup in October to be held in six venues across the country. India will be based in Delhi and have been grouped with the United States, Colombia and Ghana.
