MUMBAI: In a strategic move which may initially look like a climbdown but will have major repercussions on the delicate political relationship between the   and the BJP, chief minister Devendra Fadnavis declared on Saturday the BJP would not contest the March 8 mayoral elections to the BMC but support Sena mayoral candidate Vishwanath Mahadeshwar. The BJP, which got just two seats less than the Sena’s tally of 84 in the recently-held civic elections, will also not contest for the posts of deputy mayor, standing committee chairman or chairmanship of any other BMC panel but support Sena candidates for these posts.

 At the same time, the BJP will not sit in the opposition, he said, adding that it will support the Sena on proposals that are in Mumbai’s interests but will act as a custodian of transparency.
 
 In the same breath, the CM said in order to pursue its agenda of transparency and corruption-free civic governance, the government would appoint a three-member panel of Sharad Kale, Ramanath Jha and Gautam Chatterjee, all retired IAS officers, to suggest guidelines to make the functioning of all municipal corporations in the state, including BMC, more transparent. While this committee will submit its report in three months, Fadnavis said, the government will appoint an Up-Lokayukta, with jurisdiction limited to Mumbai, so that a close watch can be kept on the BMC’s working. 
 
 The BJP has sought to take the high moral ground by relinquishing all top civic posts and by promising to retain its focus on transparency, observers said. It will, at the same time, not be the opposition but play a key role in all civic committees. The move to appoint a panel to examine the transparency issue and an Up-Lokayukta (on the Lokayukta’s recommendation) could well turn out to be decisive in the Sena-BJP relationship in the days to come, observers said.
 
 Some observers indicated that in order to safeguard his government, Fadnavis had to come to a decision which would be acceptable to both parties. But senior leaders from the BMC said the BJP was gearing up to give the Sena a tough time over the next five years by raising issues related to corruption and violation of rules in order to demand greater transparency. 
 
 “We will support the Sena on issues related to Mumbai but we will not keep quiet on issues related to corruption. Our corporators will act as custodians of transparency in the BMC. We will not support any issue that is against our core agenda of development and transparency,” Fadnavis said at a press conference.
 
 On the decision not to field mayoral and deputy mayoral candidates, Fadnavis said, “It would have been possible for us to win the mayor's election after negotiating with some parties for their support, but that would have meant compromising on the agenda of transparency. We are not agreeable to doing that just for the sake of a post. Transparency was our agenda, which the citizens of Mumbai have accepted, and we will not let them down for anything. We respect their verdict.” 
 
 Saturday was the last day for filing nominations for the mayoral election. It is now certain that Vishwanath Mahadeshwar and Hemangi Worlikar, the Sena candidates for mayor and deputy mayor, will sail through. 
 
 
