BHOPAL: Facing uncertainty over their future, the law students of Dr Hari Singh Gour Central University has decided to launch a protest on the campus from Monday. The university is running the course without bothering to get an affiliation from the  . In the absence of council’s affiliation, they cannot enrol themselves with the state bar council, making them ineligible to practice law.

 Sourabh Dev Pandey, a law student, said the varsity has put law students in trouble. “I took admission here since it is a central university. At the time of admission, I was told that the law department of the university has got affiliations from the Bar Council of India. Now, I have come to know that it was a false claim,” said Sourabh.
 
 Shuham Namdeo who is also pursuing a course from the varsity said that the non-affiliation has made his entire family tensed. “No one in the university is telling anything about it. I have started getting calls from students who passed out from here. My family is equally tensed as it is a matter of my career,” said Namdeo.
 
 He claimed that students have made up their minds to move the high court if the university do not solve the problem in ten days’ time. “Law students are left with no option except to move court. We have come here to study but the university is forcing us to take legal steps,” said Namdeo.
 
 Another student,  , said that the students met the advocates union for help. “They have assured us assistance. They will also file a PIL for us,” said Sahu.
 
 Passed-out students felt that their entire career is in trouble. “We are left with no options after completing our course. I do not know what will happen to my career if the university does not take affiliation from the Bar Council of India,” said a student without quoting his name.
 
 The council shot off a letter to the university on January 23 asking the university to get approval in the next 15 days. Any failure will lead to invalid degrees that were distributed since 2011. In 2010, the council had informed the university to take affiliation from it.
 
 In the letter written to the university, the council stated that the law department had approval for 3-year law courses till 2010-11.
 
