Nagpur: Picking up 40 gems from the oceanic repertoire of playback singer   was Shruti Chaudhary, a city singer known for her unique presentation of   At the event ‘Soul, Shruti Sings Lata’, held at Scientific Society on Thursday, the immortal classics of composers like Naushad, Roshan,   worked like a soothing balm for the audience who were sweating it out in the hall which did not even have coolers working.

 Composers formed the basis for the selection as Shruti said, “When I decided to have Lata as the theme for this show, I was baffled by the sheer number of songs that was there to pick from. So I decided to make a song list by picking up those compositions which gave the essence of various music directors she has sung for.” 
 
 Setting the tone of the evening with the signature song ‘aayega aanewala’ composed by  , she next sang Hemant Kumar’s extremely soothing composition ‘kuch dil ne kaha’. 
 
 Next on the list was ‘mausam hai ashiqana’, by Naushad who with his folk and classical based songs is known to have brought out the best in Lata and moved on to regale the audience with SD Burman’s hits like ‘katon se kheech ke’, ‘feli hui hain ye sapno ki bhahain’ and ‘megha chaaye’.
 
 Known for presentations that are different from the routine musical shows staged in the city, Shruti selects her songs keeping in mind the taste of her audience.
 
  The compositions of Laxmikant Payarelal, Shankar Jaikishan, Khayyam, Salil Chaudhary, R.D. Burman, Kalyanji Anandji, Ravindra Jain and Rajesh Roshan were all those numbers which essayed the style of these composers. 
 
 Shruti has a serene voice and a calm demeanour which combines on stage to create music that touches the soul. In the presentations at this event she was accompanied by singer   who supported her in numbers like ‘kabhi kabhi mere dil main khayal ata hai’ and ‘Phir chhidi baat raat phulon ki’.
 
 The lilting flow of the evening was not disturbed even by anchor Shweta Shelgoankar who remained brief in her introductions and allowed music to occupy all available space.
 
 
