India, the land of rich cultural heritage has had many patrons falling for its vivid lifestyles and landscapes. Here are 8 engaging and compelling books that beautifully capture the true essence of India. 

 Watch the video here: 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  From hating India to loving it- a wild roller-coaster journey with Sarah McDonald who suffers a fatal accident and then explores the vagaries of Indian religion to find the meaning of life and death.
 
 
  
  
  A youthful account of a transformational journey on a very, very tight budget in buses with the darkness of the night and the heat of the day, across the land in which five thousand years of Indian history jostles.
 
 
  
 
  
  Nine people, nine lives- taking different religious paths making unforgettable story. Exquisite yet simple. Depicts the transformation traditional forms of religious life in   undergone due to the region's rapid change.
 
 
  
 Naipaul approaches this shifting, changing land from a variety of perspectives where Indians tell their life stories, offering a kaleidoscopic, in a journey through metropolitan cities. 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  This is a remarkable portrait Indian politics, culture, and spirituality. Palaces of maharajas, ashrams, temples and caves, remote villages reached by tortuous journeys on ramshackle buses, find a great expression in this book.
 
 
  
  
  This collection of essays, clarifies that westernization will ruin India's indigenous traditions and critically analyses the deep-rooted ancient Indian civilization and the underlying principles. 
 
 
  
 
  
  India, the best bazaar of human experiences—monsoon and marigold, colours and corpses, snow and endless myth—is a cruel, unrelenting place of ineffable sweetness captured in a collection of stories.
 
  
  
  
 
  
  Monisha embarks on a 40,000 km adventure around India in 80 trains meeting a colourful cast of characters with their own epic stories. This is a personal journey of adventure and humour around a country built on religion. 
 
 
