NEW DELHI: Senior   justice  , who has been boycotting collegium meetings over the apparent lack of transparency in the appointment of judges, may in the “public interest” reverse his stand and participate in deliberations to appoint judges to high courts and the apex court.
 
  “There has been a rethink and for public good and in public interest, justice Chelamaswar may now participate in SC collegium meetings to appoint judges, ” a legal luminary told ET.
  
  “This way his views will get reflected during the collegium meetings and he can’t and shouldn’t continue with boycott, merely on sentimental grounds,” the person said.
  
  “For public good, it is important he attends meetings and is privy to verbal or written deliberations.” In any case, he has been attending all collegium meetings held to finalise the memorandum of procedure (MOP), the person said.
  
  Chelameswar had written to then chief justice TS Thakur raising concerns about the lack of transparency in selection of judges last year. He was also the lone dissenting judge on the bench that in 2015 struck down legislation that would have given the executive a greater role in judicial appointments through the   (NJAC).
  
  While he opted out of collegium meetings, the minutes of these were, however, forwarded to him. In fact, he recently recorded his dissent over the non-elevation of KM Joseph, chief justice of the   High Court, and Manjula Chellur, chief justice of the  , to the apex court. ET contacted Chelameswar’s office for his comments but was told, “His Lordship is not available.”
  
  Meanwhile, the Supreme Court collegium has forwarded the MoP to the government for mutual consultation and final approval. On March 10, collegium members had approved the MoP.
  
  These are guidelines to be formulated, in consultation with the government, for the appointment of judges to the high courts and the Supreme Court. ET has learnt that the collegium has proposed income criteria for advocates to be considered for appointment as high court judges.
  
  “Advocates need to have a minimum income of Rs 10 lakh per annum, in the last three years, to be eligible to be appointed as high court judges,” a person with direct knowledge of the matter told ET.
  
  Meanwhile, during the meetings held to finalise the MoP, some of the collegium members suggested initiating strict action against judges, including impeachment, in cases of misconduct or conflicts of interest with relatives practising at the bar, rather than merely transferring them out on administrative grounds.
  
  The collegium deliberated upon the transfer policy for high court judges on grounds of public interest or conflict of interest in the case of judges, whose children practice in the same court. According to a representative of the judiciary familiar with discussions on the MoP, there is need for a uniform transfer policy.
