BENGALURU: Those driving past   on Tuesday evening found themselves in the midst of a snowfall of sorts. But there was nothing to cheer about. For it was nothing but toxic foam from the frothing Varthur Lake that engulfed the air. While two-wheeler riders sped through the  , those in cars rolled up their windows to shut them out.

 With pollution levels rising due to inflow of sewage and harmful effluents, the lake has been spewing more froth, adding to woes of commuters and residents staying in its vicinity. Vehicle users say they experience itching and suffer from skin infections whenever they come in contact with foam.
 
 Gowda Kiran, a regular commuter on this stretch, took a picture of the ‘snowfall’ and posted it on the Facebook page of  , a citizen group. On March 10, chunks of foam from Varthur Lake spilled onto the thoroughfare, resulting in a virtual lockdown, as shopkeepers downed their shutters to ward off the stench emanating from the swirling foam. Traffic too had reduced to a crawl. 
 
 Following the incident, chief secretary   inspected the lake and directed civic officials to clear debris and encroachments on the lakebed within a week. He also told them to fence the lake which sees rampant dumping of garbage and debris.
 
 “All lakes in Bengaluru have become toxic, and it’s not happened overnight. It’s a reflection of the constant neglect these waterbodies face and how our politicians are only after money,” said Adhyatam, a resident.
 
 Wrote   on Whitefield Rising’s FB page: “The government should act fast and make arrangements to channelize STP water or drain water from all nearby apartments and manufacturing units so that they can be treated properly.”
 
 Varthur Lake is the second largest fresh waterbody in the city and is spread over 220 hectares. The lake, which is part of a series of connected waterbodies, has been witnessing a steep rise in pollution ue to changes in land use pattern post 2000. Every day, it receives around 500 million litres per day (MLD) of untreated sewage, resulting in frequent frothing and fire breakouts.
 
