COIMBATORE: A 35-year-old college lecturer and her lover were arrested by the police on Thursday for allegedly teaming up and killing her husband at   near Gudimangalam on June 30. 

 The   had been claiming for the past one week that her husband died of sudden heart attack. But her husband’s family grew suspicious and filed a police complaint. Investigations revealed that the cause of the death was asphyxiation and not a heart attack. 
 
 Revathy, 35, a college lecturer, and her husband Ganesan,44, a farmer, from Pedhampatti, had been having issues throughout their nine-years of marriage because the woman felt   did not look as good as her and was not as educated as her, said a police officer from Gudimangalam police station. “The couple also did not have children. But they had constant fights and were not happy,” said the official.
 
 On early Friday morning, Revathy ran out of her house and began calling the neighbours and relatives stating that   had suddenly died of a heart attack. She maintained the same statement throughout the day. 
 
 However, during the funeral, a rumour that Revathy was having an affair with another man and that Ganesan death was connected to the affair began doing the rounds. Becoming suspicious, Ganesan’s elder brother Sakthivel approached the Gudimangalam police station and filed a complaint regarding his brother’s death. 
 
 The police as part of their investigation exhumed Ganesan’s body and gave it for post-mortem on July 4. The autopsy report showed that Ganesan was strangled to death. On Thursday, police summoned Revathy. On inquiry, Revathy confessed that she was having an affair with the driver of her college bus, Sakthivel. 
 
 After Ganesan found out about her affair, he had confronted and chided her. Revathy who complained about Ganesan’s behavior to Sakthivel suggested killing him in a way that leaves no marks. She confessed that late Thursday night, when Ganesan was sleeping, Sakhivel was let inside the house. Sakthivel began strangling Ganesan while Revathy held his legs until Ganesan died. Revathy and Sakthivel were arrested on Thursday evening. 
 
 
