PANAJI: The Goa   department has been slapped with a Rs 1.5 crore electricity   from   for dues pending since 2012 for power supplied to Tiracol.

 Tiracol village has been drawing power from Maharashtra since Goa’s pre-liberation days.
 
 Electricity department officials attribute the inflated bill to Maharashtra billing Goa on industrial rates rather than domestic rates for a period of five years. There are only 158 connections in the village of which 15 are commercial connections to small shops, two agriculture connections and the rest are domestic. 
 
 “The maximum rate of power per unit for domestic consumers is Rs 2 in Goa and Rs 3 in Maharashtra but they calculated our bill based on the current industrial rate in Maharashtra. For five years they didn’t issue us any bills. They have only started issuing regular bills from last month,” the official said.
 
  Tiracol residents needn’t fear as there is no threat of disconnection of power supply to them.
 
 For many years now, Tiracol residents have been bearing with an eight-hour power shut down every Monday. They are also forced to travel to Arambol or Agarwada or Mandrem to pay their power bills, the payment for which is accepted only on certain days and for a few hours each day.
 
 “We have been paying our electricity bills regularly either monthly or bimonthly to the Goa electricity department. If we fail to pay, the department disconnects our power supply. Power department linesmen also regularly visit our homes and record meter readings,” one resident said.
 
 The village has been experiencing frequent power cuts in May and villagers went without power for three hours each on Thursday and Friday. The erratic power supply has resulted in shortage of water supply too. 
 
 The department plans to erect towers and pass power lines over the 450-metre Tiracol river were met with opposition from the locals some years ago. Plans of providing power supply via the   have come to a standstill following an NGT order that has stalled the construction of the bridge. 
 
 The department is reconsidering the option of overhead cables, while also looking at the possibility of installing underground cabling to provide supply from Goa.
 
 Senior officials from the Goa electricity department on Friday held a meeting with their Maharashtra counterparts to discuss the shocker bill. “Villagers needn’t worry about their power supply. We will settle the bill after proper verification,” a senior official said. 
 
 
