CHENNAI: With DVD sales dwindling, movie pirates are fast shifting their business to micro secure digital cards. Since many film buffs are increasingly opting for movies on SD cards and pen drives, showrooms for mobile spares and outlets for other electronic gadgets now display banners of new releases -sometimes even before they make it to the big screen.

 “There is a visible change in many shops on   and even high-end DVD showrooms in the city ,“ said  , who works at a mobile shop on Ritchie Street. “We've procured more pen drives and even 64GB SD cards.“
 
 “Many people walk into our shop and load five or six movies on SD cards in their cellphones,“ another Ritchie Street trader   said. “We charge `30 to `50 per movie according to the customers. We copy three movies for `100 and it takes just a few minutes to copy a file.“
 
 Demonetisation has put the brakes on the business, however, with many traders stalling purchases of pen drives and SD cards from China and waiting instead for March to invest in new stock.It has also hiked the price of pen drives and SD cards.
 
 “Earlier we sold 8GB pen drives and SD cards for `200 each. We've had to hike prices to between `280 and `300,“ electronic showroom owner Dawood said. There are about 50 DVD and VCD shops on Ritchie Street, a hub for electronic goods, both wholesale and retail. There are now less than a dozen such outlets.
 
 “We have moved to new businesses because customers don't want DVDs any longer,“ another trader said.“Every DVD shop has to pay a bribe of `25,000 to `50,000 a month to the local police. If we move to a new business, we can at least avoid or reduce the bribes we have to pay .“
 
 A police officer attached to the anti-piracy wing of the Chennai city police said investigators have found that sales of pirated films on DVDs have dropped drastically in the city in recent times.
 
 According to police statistics, anti-piracy wing officers have recently arrested 20 people for copying and selling pirated films in DVD format in the city . Police last Saturday arrested a man they identified as V Ibrahim, 40, a resident of   in Thiruvottiyur, for copying pirated DVDs and VCDs at his house. Police seized 2,635 DVDs and seven high-speed DVD writing machines worth Rs16 lakh from him. “This, however, is small change when compared with the business in pirated SD cards,“ an officer said. “That is where the money is to be made these days.“
 
 
