BHOPAL: Two years have passed since a   (DSP), Madhya Pradesh, posted at police headquarters, went missing. Now, the missing cop’s family works under Mahatma Gandhi Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS). What’s worse is his children had to quit studies to sustain the household.

 On February 2, 2015,  , a resident of Chandania village, Anuppur district, reportedly left Bhopal for Satna. Since then, Man Singh, posted with the complaint section, has been out of everybody’s radar. A missing persons report was filed with the  .
 
 Tekam, who reportedly gave an application for not being well that day, went back home at Ahirpura and asked a neighbourhood boy to drop him at  .
 
 Doom descended on the family with the cop’s daughter, Renu Singh Tekam, 25, quitting BCA and his son Shailendra Singh Tekam, 27, leaving B.Sc in the final year. 
 
 Now, the cop’s wife, Mohabbati Bai, who got a job under MNREGS, and Shailendra make their ends meet for the rest of the members.
 
 “My brother and mother have work under MNREGS. I also help my mother with her job. We have no other means to survive. My younger brother Dharmendra is already sick,” Renu Singh Tekam told TOI.
 
 “We had no money when our father went missing. We had no option but to quit studies. Since we were penniless, we returned to our native village in Shahdol,” she said.
 
 “We had complained to the police, but all in vain. Even the Jehangirbad police did not take the matter seriously. They had also asked us not to enquire regularly,” she recollected.
 
 “On January 31, 2015, I spoke to papa for the last time. Later on, we came to know that he was in Bhopal till February 2,” she added.
 
 “He used to remain tense after he had a fight with a politician during his posting in Panna. He had also complained about one of his senior officials saying that he used to harass him and marked him absent,” Renu alleged.
 
 When asked her if her family received any service benefits, she said, “We did not get any benefit. In fact, the police officials never took our case seriously.”
 
 When TOI contacted Jehangirabad police station in-charge Pritam Singh Thakur, he said, “Teams have been sent to find the cop. Earlier also we tried to find him. Man Singh reportedly went missing in 2014 also for few months. Later on, he came back to the duty.”
 
