MUMBAI: The state home department has amended the rules for recruitment of police constables with an aim to hire candidates who are sea  . The government plans to depute these recruits at police stations that have coastal areas under their jurisdiction so that they can help rescue people during drowning incidents. The state has 720km of coast spread over seven districts—Mumbai, Mumbai Suburban, Palghar, Thane, Ratnagiri, Raigad and Sindhudurg.

 The government has amended the Maharashtra Police Constable (Recruitment) Rules 2011 and said that candidates who fulfil the physical and educational qualification criteria may appear for the additional physical fitness test which carries 15 marks and is optional.
 
 As per the new rule, male candidates will be given a maximum of 10 marks for swimming up to 50m in sea in uniform and for women aspirants, it is 25m. The remaining five marks will be given (for both male and female candidates) for their capacity to float on sea water for three minutes. 
 
 The home department issued the order in this regard on June 23 and it will will be applicable for recruitment drives held henceforth. “The new rule will be applicable only for the new recruitment and not for those who are already in service,” said a senior official from the home department.
 
 However,there is no additional incentive, pay hike or special allowance for the additional qualification. The only benefit s/he will get is a posting at police stations covering coastal area, which is considered to be a comparatively less hectic posting. 
 
 “The state may consider announcing especial incentive or allowance for them in future, however, it depends on the response the department will gets during the next drive which will take place in 2018 for next recruitment of around 5,000 constables,” added the official. 
 
 He said that though the government intends to add manpower along beaches to rescue people from drawing, such incidents happen only during monsoon or vacation periods. A police constable, on the condition of anonymity, said, “Without incentive or pay hike, no candidate would go for the new test as it may be risky and fatal.”
 
 
