NEW DELHI: Former   leader  , who had endorsed jihad and rule of shariah in Kashmir and declared his respect for al-Qaida, will now head a new outfit in Kashmir named Ansar Ghazwat-ul-Hind.

 In a statement titled ‘Foundation of New Movement of Jihad in Kashmir’ released by an al-Qaida-linked information network, Ansar-Ghazwatul-Hind declared that after the martyrdom of “heroic mujahid  , the jihad in Kashmir has entered a stage of awakening as the Muslim nation of Kashmir has committed to carry the flag of jihad to repel the aggression of tyrant Indian invaders, and through jihad, and with the aid of Allah only, we will liberate our homeland Kashmir”.
 
 Invoking Allah and  , it announced that a new movement of jihad with the goal of liberating Kashmir had been founded by the companions of “martyr” Burhan Wani under the leadership of Mujahid Zakir Musa.
 
 Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) and   (LeT) on Thursday lost no time in slamming the new jihad-leaning outfit. 
 
 HM supreme commander   alleged the new outfit was part of a “conspiracy by the Indian establishment to create a division among the mujahideen in Kashmir and set the stage for bloodshed in Kashmir on the lines of what had happened in al-Qaeda and Islamic State-influenced theatres like Afghanistan, Iraq, Turkey etc”.
 
 LeT issued a statement on Thursday saying that “Indian conspiracies are being foiled ever since the locals and   leaders forged unity among themselves...groups like al-Qaida and IS are being brought up to label the legitimate freedom struggle (in Kashmir) as terrorism”.
 
 The message announcing the formation of Ansar Ghazwat-ul-Hind said its official media would be called al-Hurr, which means free/independent.
 
 It also released the logo of al-Hurr. Indian intelligence agencies are still trying to ascertain whether Musa loyalties lie with al-Qaida or IS, though he has earlier praised the former’s work. Even though he has never named IS, his statements have mentioned ‘khilafat’ on at least two occasions.
 
 Indian intelligence sources suspect that new outfit under Musa could work in tandem with al-Qaida in Indian Subcontinent (AQIS) headed by Sambhal resident Asim Umar. Recently, AQIS had released documents through its media wing As Sahab calling for attacks on the Indian police, military and secret agencies, apart from leaders of Hindu “separatist” organisations. This was reported by TOI.
 
 Meanwhile, in a video statement, Salahuddin made it clear that there was no space or scope for a jihadi outfit in Kashmir, be it “al-Qaida, Daesh or any other third outfit”.
 
 “Of late, there are entities that in the name of shariah and shahadat (martyrdom) are misguiding freedom-seeking youth and creating confusion in their minds...as far Kashmir movement is concerned, it is indigenous and has ‘azaadi’ as its sole aim and no other agenda,” he is heard as saying.
 
 On May 12 this year, Musa had issued an audio message, threatening to behead separatist leaders at Srinagar’s Lal Chowk for describing the movement as a freedom struggle. He claimed the movement was totally Islamic and based on “shariah and shahadat”.
 
 Hizbul was quick to distance itself from Musa's views.On May 15, Musa issued another audio message, dissociating from Hizb. He paid his respect to al-Qaida for its “good work”.
 
