BHUBANESWAR: Amidst the concrete jungle having a patch of greenery is not only refreshing but also energizing. Mini forest - a unique concept of urban gardening was displayed at the state-level annual   organised by the Plant Lovers' Association in association with the directorate of horticulture at the   (RPRC), also known as Ekamrakanan, here on Saturday. 

 "People have shown great interest in the concept of mini forest that is getting popular in big cities. The idea is to plant some trees found in forests and medicinal plants in your backyard or in farm houses. Even people can have a mini forest on vacant government lands," said  , secretary of Plant Lovers' Association. He said the city forest division has been facilitating the concept among people with space in their gardens. 
 
 "Besides, the mini forest focuses on vertical gardening. A garden does not necessarily have to be seasonal flowering plants in an open space but we can grow plants on window panes, balconies, terrace and parapet. Vertical gardening is an interesting option for those living in apartments," said Behera. 
 
 "As a welcome trend in gardening, a large number of plant lovers are showing interest in growing orchids in the city. If the trend continues we are planning to have an exclusive show on orchids soon," Behera added. 
 
 A plant bazaar has also come up at the flower show where gardening equipment, pots, and saplings of fragrant flowers, plants and flower seeds, fertilizers, pesticides, irrigation machineries are being sold. "We eagerly wait for the annual flower show as it is a one-stop solution for gardening. We get to learn latest trends in gardening and get expert advice," said  , a plant lover. 
 
 An array of plants are on display at the flower show and competitions are being organized in 30 categories, including flower display, kitchen garden, bungalow garden, children's painting and bonsai. To encourage people to have gardens, the association has organised a competition in the city in which 88 gardens participated. 
 
 
