JAIPUR: The Centre has set June 30, 2017 deadline for big cities in Rajasthan to achieve Open Defecation Free (ODF) status. 

 The task was given by the ministry of urban development, joint secretary, Praveen Prakash after reviewing the progress of swachh bharat mission in the state. 
 
 So far, municipal corporations and local bodies have entirely failed to make cities Open Defecation Free in the state. Only two cities,   and   have declared as ODF by the Centre.
 
 The state has not even achieved 50% results as compared to other cities. “Task has been given to bigger cities such as Jaipur, Udaipur, Kota and Ajmer to become ODF. A intensive programme of hundred days could easily help these cities to achieve the target. Once the bigger cities in state are declared as ODF, they could assist small cities too. District collector will also be roped in to accomplish the mission,” said Prakash 
 
 The state officials were directed to construct community toilets in 500 meter areas of slums, where construction of toilets inside the houses is not possible. He informed , the Centre government has also issued to directions to construct toilets on   and Railways land. 
 
 For municipal soil waste, 19 composting plant will be established in the state till October 2017. Three waste to energy plants in Jaipur , Jodhpur and Kota will be also established soon. 
 
 Recently , the   (JMC) had planned to set up small-scale waste-to-energy plant to generate electricity. The JMC planned to generate nearly 6MW in a day from 650 tonnes of waste. However, project hit roadblock as power purchase agreement (PPA was not signed. 
 
 It was informed , municipal corporation will prepare compost from waste , where agencies have not shown interest to install the machines. The central government has amended rules to encourage manufacturing of compost. The centre will give Rs 1500 per metric tonn as grant to a city that produces and sell 1 metric ton compost. 
 
 He further said , since long the Centre is monitoring door to door garbage collection scheme in the state and it is expected it would start soon.
 
