With the end of summer around the corner,   looms over students’ heads like an impending doom. While the prospect of returning to   might be exciting for sophomores and  , first-years that are yet to begin their journey are bound to be a scared and confused bundle of nerves. To make things easier, here are some common college myths that add fire to the fuel, debunked:
 
 
 
 A universal fear that plagues all freshers set for college, the anxiety of not meeting any like-minded people and forming new connections mostly stems from a reluctance of stepping away from childhood friends and into a whole new world. But it’s all unfounded, says Sneha V, senior at a city college. “Although the first couple of weeks may be dull and daunting, you will eventually find good companions at college — some of who may become your lifelong friends,” she assures.
  
 
 
 An idea that originated in the West and quickly spread like wildfire to the rest of world, the ‘Fresher 5’ is a term that refers to the apparent weight gain at first year of university. Although this belief is founded in actual logic, since a   is more likely to exhibit weight-gaining behaviour (like drinking and over-eating) because of his/her initial excitement or stress, statistics have shown that this five-kilo gain is nothing more than a paranoid myth.
  
 
 
 Based on what’s shown on the big screen, one might quickly presume that college entails a whole load of sacrifices. From putting up with   seniors, to living only on cereal and instant noodles, movies make it seem like college life is just one disaster after another. “But it really isn’t like that,” says Jai Krishna, sophomore at  . “All institutions have very strict anti-ragging rules. Handle your finances well, stay true to yourself, and it’ll be no different from school.”
 
 
  
  
 
 
 With hectic schedules and discipline of high school firmly in the past, it is easy to assume that college means skipping classes and leaving assignments undone, with no consequences at all, especially in the first couple of semesters. But with most universities imposing strict attendance policies and periodic evaluations, college is definitely not the place to play hooky.
  
 
 
 Considering the additional baggage that often pairs with starting out at college — such as living by oneself or making time for a long commute — it’s no surprise that college is synonymous to additional responsibilities. However, no matter how simple it all seems in theory, rest assured that everything (from budgeting to scheduling) is going to need honest, hard work.
  
 
 
 This belief goes two ways — students not only believe that school friendships last forever, but also that whoever they meet first in college is who they’re going to be friends with all through. Old relationships will undoubtedly undergo some amount of strain once college begins, and it’s equally true that bonds constantly change even within the graduate years. Rarely does it happen that who you start off your freshman year with, is who will be at your side while graduating.
  
 
 
 This one, actually, is no myth. Every single person that enrolls into a university is automatically put on one platform, with the same degree of opportunities available. “I used to think that my credentials from school would give me an edge in college, but I was wrong. If you were once a topper or a star-student, be prepared to have all that nullified, because everybody else has tons of achievements in their roster too. Nobody has an upper hand,” says Gokul V, a second-year student.
 
 — Sanjana Sindhe 
 
