COIMBATORE: The   officials, busy removing hoardings from the highways in rural areas, have also asked the district collector to cancel all permissions and no objection certificates (NoCs) given for advertisement hoardings on their roads. This also includes hoardings permitted on bus shelters.

 The national highways department recently wrote to the district collector asking that he cancel the NoCs given to advertisements and hoardings on national highways (NHs) like the   Road, Trichy Road and  . 
 
 The move comes after the NH officials were pulled up by the ministry of road transport for allowing such advertising hoardings to come up on the highways in a letter dated September 7, 2016. "We have quoted the September 7 letter and asked them to cancel NoCs for the advertisement hoardings they had permitted," said a highways official.
 
 The highways department say they have pulled down at least 1,000 hoardings from Karur to Ooty, Madathukulam to Sathyamangalam and Mettupalayam Road stretches in the past 10 days.
 
  "There are two kinds of advertisement hoardings, those put up by random shop-keepers to give themselves better visibility without getting any one's permission and there are brands and bigger companies who put up hoardings after getting the collector's and corporation's permission," said a senior highways engineer. 
 
 "It is more difficult to remove hoardings for which the collector has given the ‘no objection certificate'. In fact, in  , we had a huge problem between the locals and the staff. Which is why we have written to the collector," he said.
 
 The highways also has approached the city and rural police and requested them not to allow people maintaining the traffic signals to put up advertisement hoardings. "Institutions like the corporation and police have leased out maintenance of their bus shelters and traffic signals to private people who put up hoardings. When we ask them to remove it, it becomes a problem," said the engineer. 
 
 "They say they have paid for it," he added. "That is why they have been asked to cancel all  's given for any form of advertisement hoardings," he said. 
 
