HYDERABAD: How much does one suicide cost? It may sound absurd, but doctors have computed the 'financial burden' of a suicide on relatives at about Rs 2.65 lakh. Apart from the untold suffering and trauma of separation, a suicide will put heavy monetary burden on families leading to a   in many cases.

 A research study by a senior psychiatrist from a city based corporate hospital revealed that the contribution to 'suicide loss' by middle age group is quite high. The average cost of one suicide in Hyderabad and other places in India works out to be about Rs 2.65 lakh.
 
 The monetary value of one suicide is based on both direct and indirect costs including hospitalization, funeral and legal expenses.
 
 Though there have been research studies on the average cost of one suicide world over, this is the first time that the short-term   has been worked out in India.
 
 The financial burden is notional but indicative of the monetary and mental suffering families undergo when a member ends life. Though the research study was published in the latest issue of the   of  , the cost involved at different stages was based on 2014 figures. At the national level, suicides had put an overall financial burden of about Rs 350 crore in 2014. The burden could be more if the cost is calculated at 2016-17 prices. Official data on suicides, market rates and official estimates for different parameters were taken into account while computing the monetary loss.
 
 "The cost of suicide includes short-term and long-term costs, which can be direct and indirect. Momentous change occurs to the family in various aspects during the first year of suicide. Hence, it is of much relevance to all.
 
 Short-term costs in the first year of the act includes ho spital expense, police investigation, transportation,  , recurrent re ligious expense for the dead, family counselling, lost wages, lost taxes, compensation and potential organs lost for transplant," pointed out the study by Dr Gopala Sarma Poduri, consultant psychiatrist, Yashoda Super Specialty Hospital, Malakpet, Hyderabad. Referring to the long-term costs, the study looked at aspects like "the lost income that could have been earned by the person till retirement, tax that the government lost from that income, years of potential life lost and consequences".
 
 "Investment in educating the vulnerable, crisis intervention, expansion and easy access to psychiatric services will bring down the number of suicides even if it cannot be eliminated," the study suggested. Stating that the "cost of death is only notional", the study said the cost factors "vary from age, sex, status and capacity".
 
