India's fastest woman rally car driver, the only Indian woman to win all major rallies in the country in a single year and the first Indian woman to win the   –  's impressive resume as a rally car racer hides the fact that she has been racing professionally only for four years. The Gurgaon resident's latest achievement is a 3rd place finish (1st among women) in the over-1650cc category at the recently concluded National Autocross Championships. The 45-year-old mother-of-two has been setting new records every time she sits behind the wheel of her gypsy of late. In a candid chat with us,   talks about breaking into a man’s sport, juggling corporate career, family, and sport, and the evolution of Gurgaon from a scary forest to a concrete jungle.

  
  
 
  Bani's interest in racing stems from her father, who used to modify cars when she was young. However, despite being exposed to racing early on, she did not begin professional racing herself till the age of 43. "Initially, even though my father was interesting in racing himself, he did not support my dream of becoming a racer because back then, there was no infrastructure for racing in India," she explains. 
 
  After getting married, Bani says she got busy with raising kids and the family, and racing simply wasn't on the horizon. She tells us, "I married my childhood friend. Ours was a love marriage, and one where the families disowned us. We were financially insecure back then, so the focus was always on the next paycheck, raising the kids, the jobs. There was no time for racing. It was only after the kids had grown up and we were both financially secure that my husband pushed me to start racing, and at his insistence, I did." So, was it difficult to pick up racing a car after the age of 40, having not done it actively for decades? Bani replies, "It wasn't difficult, to be honest. I guess it runs in the blood. Ever since I have started driving, I have been driving fast. So, I just took that from the roads to the tracks."
 
  
  (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
  Rally car driving in India is a predominantly male sport with very few women competing, and even fewer winning. Bani says that it wasn't easy to break into such a world, particularly since her navigator is also a woman and they were the only all-women team on the circuit. She says, "It's a man's sport and men don't like losing to women. The Indian male mindset is that it's good that women are competing and branching out into different avenues but only as long as they aren't beating the men. They say, theek hai, hobby hai iski, let her race. But they can't digest if a woman wins. So, I did face some resistance but as I started to win rallies and titles, I started getting respect automatically."
 
  Bani currently juggles job, family and racing, all at the same time. She says, "I hardly get to practice. When I'm competing in the rallies, I am away from home for a week or 10 days in a month, so when I'm back home, I try to devote some time to the family. This means that I cannot go for training every Sunday since it's family time and weekdays are for work. So, most of my training and practice in the car happens only during competitions or right before them, otherwise it is once every 2-3 months at the most."
 
  
  Bani Yadav on a ride out in Gurgaon
 
 
 
  Bani was born in Delhi, did her schooling from Army Public School and higher studies from Miranda House but has grown up in Gurgaon, having seen the city evolve over almost four decades. She tells us, "My parents moved to Gurgaon in 1977. It was actually a gaon back then. There was a forest area and the entire city that exists on the other side of the highway wasn't there. I remember hearing the sounds of hyenas and jackals near my house in those days. It used to be quite scary. Look at Gurgaon now and you can’t say that it's the same city."
 
  Although she likes how Gurgaon has become so urban and well-connected now, the Sector 23 resident believes the city has paid a steep price by moving away from nature. "The sad aspect of the development is the greenery has been completely lost. It's just a concrete jungle now. We used to see so many sparrows and I remember being fascinated by weaver birds and their nests when I was younger. But those bird are nowhere in Gurgaon now because the trees aren't there. So, there is nothing from the nature here that I can show my kids or my grandkids in the future," says Bani.
  
  The development of off-roading culture in the city gives Bani hope that the urban concrete jungle will give rise to more rallyists in the future. She elaborates, "The facilities for practicing in Gurgaon when it comes to motorsport are non-existent. My co-competitors and I go to Banwari, an hour's drive from Gurgaon, to practice. But yes, the rise of the off-roading culture has given some hope. If more people take this up, developers will build tracks and venues for it closer to the city. There is already an off-roading facility on the Faridabad highway and it is great."
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
