MUMBAI: The Aussies are warming up for the forthcoming Test series against India with not just the ball and the bat, but with the mouth too.

 After cracking a superb, unbeaten 85 against Australia on Day Two of their warm-up tie at the Brabourne Stadium on Saturday,   revealed that he received a fair bit of lip from the fielders during his stay in the middle.
 
 Interestingly, Iyer came up with the revelation after he was asked to compare Australia's spinners with those of Bangladesh, against whom the Mumbaikar had slammed a 100 in a tour game earlier this month at Hyderabad.
 
 “I think they (Australian spinners) are way better than them. Against Bangladesh, I could predict what ball they would bowl. And here, there's also a bit of sledging that keeps happening (from) behind and that also keeps playing on your mind,” he said with a sheepish grin.
 
 Prodded to share exactly how he was sledged, Iyer said: “They (wicketkeeper   and   from leg slip) were saying, 'this guy doesn't know how to play defensive strokes. He can't defend the ball'. So I was proving them wrong.”
 
 Earlier this week, Aussie skipper   had made it clear after landing in India that he won't stop his teammates from sledging the Indians if it gets the best out of them. Not that the tactic seemed to have rattled Iyer, who learnt last year, while touring with the India A team Down Under, that on-field chatter is part of the game when you play the Kangaroos. “I've been to Australia on an `A' tour, so I'm quite used to it,” he said, while making it clear that he was focused on his batting.
 
 Despite having hammered them at will, Iyer rated Nathan Lyon and Steve O' Keefe highly. “I think they're really good, especially Lyon because he was bowling a little faster through the air, and it was really amazing playing this kind of an attack for the first time.”
 
 For someone who has plundered domestic attacks consistently for the past three seasons, Iyer felt that this was the best 'spin challenge' he'd faced so far in his career. “They (the Aussies) were a bit better. In domestic cricket, they give a bit of flight. Over here, I was barely getting any flighted delivery.
 
 “I had to step out and convert them into big shots,” he said, before explaining how he was impressed in particular by the experienced Lyon.
 
 Despite excelling in tour matches, Iyer is aware that a berth in the Test team is some distance away. “I'm just enjoying my batting at the moment. I just want to keep scoring. The Indian team is packed at the moment and it's really tough to get into that side. I have to be consistent enough,” he concluded.
 
