SHIMLA:   has predicted year’s second snowfall in Shimla after Saturday while the authorities have not been able to cope with the inconvenience occurred with the previous snowfall that happened a week back. Roads are still blocked, and electricity and water problems have not been restored. In Shimla alone, snowfall’s chill has already taken 10 lives in three days. 

 Shimla police on Thursday saved lives of two people from Uttarakhand who were staying at Talland and got asphyxiated from brazier kept in their room. The police took them to hospital in time. From Tuesday to Thursday, five labourers had lost lives due to brazier’s gas at Summer Hill’s Chaili area and five people were found dead at different locations due to hypothermia. A Sirmaur resident was found dead at Shimla local bus stand, a body was found at Khalini nullah, one died at Chakkar residence, two others at Khadrala and Rohru.
 
 Sangti resident Vasudev said they have not received water supply for past seven days and now even the snow can’t be used to quench their thirst as it is getting dirty. “This snowfall is nothing in comparison to the scenario a decade back. But now, failure of authorities to cope with snow brought lives to a standstill in the state,” he added. 
 
 Shimla Nagrik Sabha secretary Satyawan Pundir said shortage of staff in government offices is forcing the workload on employess. The state electricity department has only 19,000 workers out of 44,000 posts. Mashobra, Naldehra, Gumma, Kufri, Cheog, Chamyana and other areas of Shimla do not have electricity and water supply for past one week and Chaupal road is still cut off from main Shimla as snow has not been cleared. “Instead of giving temporary relief to people, government should focus on making strong policy to deal with disasters,” he added.
 
 Shimla deputy commissioner (DC)   said to cope with the chill, the poor can collect warm clothes from the DC office on Saturday and Sunday and people will also be provided four ambulances at Mehli, Sanjauli, IGMC and Bypass. “To cope with upcoming snowfall, extra ration including milk, bread, rice, wheat flour have been kept in stores and extra gas cylinders and petrol have also been stored in surplus quantity,” he added.
 
 Deputy mayor, Shimla, Tikender Panwar said they have removed snow from every possible road except the areas where vehicles are parked. “Now we have started sprinkling dust on snow to shun skidding and slipping,” he added.
 
 State government spokesperson said 95% power supply has been restored in Shimla, Rampur and Rohru 95%, 85% in Bharmaur of Chamba, 80% in Tissa, 100% in Pangi, 98% in Salooni and Dalhousie. In Mandi district, power supply in Karsog and Pangna areas shall be restored on Saturday and rest of the areas within two-three days. He said 529 out of 607 roads had been opened for vehicular traffic and others will be opened within next two days. All national highways except Luhri-Aut via Jalodi pass have been opened.   had deployed manpower of more than 12,000 labourers besides sufficient heavy machinery for restoration work. As many as 574 out of 728 irrigation and public health schemes have been restored and rest of water supply schemes will be restored within next three days.
 
 Met officials said on Friday, minimum temperature of Shimla remained minus 1.4 degree Celsius, Keylong was coldest with minus 14.8, Manali recorded minus 7 and Kalpa recorded minus 7.8 degree Celsius. Snowfall is predicted at state’s middle and high hills from Saturday to Wednesday while the lower hills will receive rainfall.
 
