BHOPAL: The MP chapter of  , CAPFs Youth under-19   talent hunt tournament-2017, kicked off at the at Tatya Tope in Bhopal stadium on Monday. The Chhindwara girls’ team blanked Harda 7- 0 in the inaugural match.

 The first phase of the high-voltage contest in the city will close on May 15. The second and third phases will be conducted in Goa and New Delhi. In a first this time in the state,   (CRPF) has been asked to pick players from Madhya Pradesh for the national level.
 
 Among the several who shone the curtain raiser ceremony was IG, CRPF (MP Chapter) Pankaj Kumar, president of central Reserve Police family welfare association Vinay Pankaj Kumar, brand ambassador of the tournament and international taekwondo gold medallist Latika Bhandari. Cooperative minister Vishwas Sarang was the chief guest of the event and Member of Parliament Alok Sanjar was the guest of honour.
 
 Among numerous towering athletes who were felicitated during the opening ceremony included Indian women   team goalkeeper Aditi Chauhan, karate gold medallist Supriya Jatav, taekwondo champion Nakul Malhotra, canoeing champion Prince Parmar, boxing champion, Shruti Yadav and Latika Bhandari.
 
 The tournament is being held after the ministry of home affairs instructed that the state police and Central Armed Police Forces should organise a football tournament in each state in the run up to the U-17 FIFA World Cup scheduled to be held in India this October.
 
 Under the aegis of All India Police Sports Control Board, the tournament is being organised jointly by the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) which includes CRPF, BSF, CISF, SSB, ITBP and Assam Rifles. An initiative of Prime Minister  , the tournament is called the ‘OORJA – CAPFs Youth Under-19 Football Talent Hunt Tournament-2017.’
 
 The organisers said the tourney aims to be a part of Mission XI Million to create fervour for the sport among the youth and pick champions to represent the country in the Asian Championship and to recruit young and emerging players in CAPFs.
 
