Thousands of people are arriving at the bathing ghat along the bank of river   in  , near  , to take part in the Maha Pushkaram. While   is celebrated once in 12 years, this year, it is observed as Maha Pushkaram, an event that occurs once in 144 years, due to a rare planetary position. Also, this year, the festival is happening in the same year of the 1,000 birth anniversary of Vaishnava philosopher, Acharya Sri Ramanuja. Pushkaram denotes the worship of sacred rivers. Each river is associated with a zodiac sign (rasi) and the river for each year’s festival is chosen based on the position of Jupiter. This year is celebrated as Cauvery   as Jupiter has entered Thula rasi, which is considered the zodiac sign of Cauvery.
The festival, which began on September 12, will continue till September 24, and an average of five lakh devotees are expected to attend 
 this year. 
 Facilities have been provided for the devotees, including food at specific points, special buses and rest rooms. Women, children and elderly can be seen taking the holy-dip with great enthusiasm at the Amma Mandapam.
 Sathyavathi, a 79-year-old, has come all the way from West Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh to take the holy dip. After the bath, she paddled through the water chanting Narayana Mantram. “I have not come here to seek mukhti but to pray for good rains,” she says. 
 People are thronging the place to fulfil various wishes. Vaishnavi S, a 25-year-old, says that it is the first time she is visiting a Pushkaram in Tamil Nadu. “My zodiac sign is Thula (Libra). My parents believe that taking a dip in river Cauvery will fetch me an alliance soon. Even though I do not believe in such things, I will do it for my parents. Besides, I like the kind of belief that people carry about this festival. It is amazing to see elderly people take dip with great enthusiasm. Their energy is boundless,” she says. 
 While the authorities have provided certain facilities for the pilgrims, Shylaja, a 69-year-old, finds the heat in Srirangam unbearable. “It is very hot out here unlike West Godavari. I am visiting Pushkaram here for the first time. The organisers should have provided the facility of tents across the bank for the devotees, like in West Godavari.” Talking about the importance of the festival, she adds, “People whose zodiac sign is Libra should take a dip in Cauvery during Pushkaram, as it is believed that it will absolve their sins. It is said that it will also bring bliss and prosperity in their lives.”C Ramachandran, treasurer, Cauvery Pushkaram Brahma Yajna committee reacts, “The government has taken care of all the facilities to be provided for devotees. The committee has organised the event with assistance from Hindu religious and charitable endowment department. The basic facilities like food, rest rooms, transport and health have been arranged. We have one or two ambulances at every bathing Ghat. There is a plenty of space for devotees to sit back and relax after their holy dip as there are many stone temples across the river banks. We have ensured flowing water, so there is going to be no pollution.” 
 Jambunathan Iyer, a resident of Srirangam, says, “It is quite surprising to see that the people of Andhra Pradesh are showing more interest in Pushkaram this time, than those from Tamil Nadu and Karnataka.” It seems the followers of Sri Thridandi Sriman Narayana Ramanuja Chinna Jeeyar Swamy have arrived from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh in large numbers, he adds. 
 The Maha Pushkaram celebrations include various homams, japas and yajnas, and are sanctified by Jeers and Vedic scholars from all over the country. While chanting of Vedas, Upanishads and recital of the Ramayana and the Bhagavatham are done, Azhimazhaik Kanna Pasurams are recited by Vedic pundits praying for rainfall. Every evening, mangala arti is shown to all the water bodies. Ancestor worship, devotional music and cultural programmes are also an integral part of this mega festival. 
 
