PILIBHIT: In a series of attacks on humans by big cats in the region, a 52-year-old man was killed by a tigress near the   tiger reserve on Monday night. The half-eaten body of the villager was found on Tuesday morning, around 100 metres from his hut. This is the second killing in just three days and fifth since November 28, 2016.

  According to sources, all the incidents occurred within a radius of around 4 km of Pilibhit Tiger Reserve.
 
  Nanhe Lal was killed at Piparia Karam village under Gajraula police station. His half-eaten body was found on Tuesday morning in a wheat field where he was staying for keeping a watch on the crop a local farmer who had employed him. 
 
  Principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife)  , who was in the area after another man was killed by a big cat on Sunday, has directed PTR and social forestry officials to step up efforts to trace and tranquillize the killer tigress which is said to have moved towards the nearby Khannaut river after mauling the villager to death. This was the second human killing in just three days and fifth in a span of two-and-a-half months in the villages under   and Gajraula police stations.
 
  Divisional director of social forestry Adarsh Kumar and SDO KP Singh who reached Piparia Karam village had to face residents’ ire. It took a joint force of police and forest personnel to force its way to the wheat field and take custody of Lal’s body for autopsy.
 
  According to SDO KP Singh, the field where Lal worked was about 200 yards from Vanganj beat of PTR’s Mala forest range. After killing Lal, the tigress dragged his body 100 metres towards the forest before eating some parts.
 
  Meanwhile, two elephants from Dudhwa tiger reserve have arrived at the spot to help foresters track the killer tigress.
 
  Conservator of forest VK Singh said a team of two tranquillizing experts — deputy director of Lucknow zoo   and   — and also a local vet, Dr SK Rathaur, have reached the spot.
  Four ‘machans’ (sitting platforms) have been set up atop trees to keep an eye on the tigress’s movement and a cage with meat has also been placed to trap it as big cats usually return to their half-eaten prey within 24 hours of killing, the conservator said.
 
  Singh said that a drone has also been engaged to aid search operations. “Although it is not effective in detection of big cat amid dense Sal forests or cane fields, it helps boost confidence of both forest force and the scared villagers,” the forest official said.
