Thane: While the   (BMC) will stop collecting wet waste of housing societies from October 2 to reduce the quantum of waste piling up in the landfills, Thane city, which has been trying to go in this green regard since a couple of years ago has still not achieved half of its target. 

 In an attempt to scientifically dispose the 650 tonnes of waste generated in the city on a daily basis, the Thane Municipal Corporation ( ), in February 2016, sent out circulars to all housing societies telling them that any non-segregated waste will not be collected by the garbage vans. 
 
 While this movement began over 19 months ago, civic officials asserted that only 50 per cent of the population has embraced the zero waste movement.
 
 “Waste segregation is the first step to   and we sent out notices to citizens to take up this first step so that we could do the rest. Nineteen months into the movement as much as 50 per cent of the population have started   their waste, which the garbage vans take separately for disposal,” said Ashok Bhurpulle, head of TMC’s solid waste management department.
 
 “The main obstruction in this project is the slum pockets, as they not only mix all types of waste together, but also dump it along the road and the community bins much after the garbage vans have passed. Many still throw their waste in the nullahs, which leads to choking of these drainages. We have been holding awareness drives with NGOs as well as offering property tax rebate for those willing to opt for this green and clean way,” he added.
 
 Citizen activists and societies, meanwhile, assert that the TMC needs to take more steps, including giving incentives to those managing their own waste, collect and manage the rest of the waste at ward level and other such measures to speed up the green and clean city project.
 
 Bharat Anikandi, resident of Pachpakhadi’s Centre Point housing society, which has converted over 25 tonnes of their wet waste into manure since last February, said, “While segregating waste is each individual’s responsibility, the TMC assured five per cent property tax rebate for those managing their own waste. Despite ridding the city dump yards of 25 tonnes of waste and submitting all the required documents to the TMC, we are yet to get any benefit. While we still continue with our waste management system, many others who find all this tedious may quit.”
 
 Citizen activist Dr Lata Ghanshamnani, said, “In addition to ensuring these citizens are given their rightful tax rebate and the process to acquire it is simplified, it is the civic body’s duty to guide them about the waste management process. There are many labourers working in the solid waste management teams, who are not aware about these things themselves.”
 
 She added that additionally the TMC should also decentralise their solid waste management plan to the ward level so that all the waste does not accumulate at one place and scientifically disposing it becomes comparatively easier.
 
