NEW DELHI: The   on Monday passed the   (Amendment) Bill, which seeks to reduce crashes, deaths and injuries on roads and bring reforms in the road transport sector. 

 The proposed legislation, which will now go to the   for approval, has provisions of making stringent penalties for traffic violations, checking fake driving licences and introducing measures to protect good  .
 
 The bill also has provisions of making vehicle-makers responsible for design defects, recall of faulty vehicles and also holding roadowning and maintenance agencies or contractors accountable for road deaths and injuries on account of flaws on their part. 
 
 Such agencies will have to cough up fines up to Rs 1 lakh.
 
 While most of the provisions were largely welcomed by members, there were reservations about government indirectly putting a cap on insurance compensation where victims or their kin agree to Rs 5 lakh for death and Rs 2.5 lakh for grievous injuries. In these cases, they can’t pursue the case in the   (MACT). 
 
 This has come under criticism from various quarters, though the government claims that in more than 70% of cases the average compensation awarded by the tribunal is less than Rs 5 lakh.
 
 Road transport minister   said those who don’t accept the compensation offered by insurance companies will be free to pursue the case in MACT and in those cases the insurance companies will pay the entire amount awarded.
 
 The bill was passed by a voice vote after several amendments, moved by opposition members, were rejected.
 
 Though   member Sankar Prasad Datta pressed for division of votes after moving his amendment on enhancing compensation in accident cases, his amendment was defeated by 37 votes in favour and 221 against.
 
 Gadkari said it would not be possible to increase the third-party compensation in case of death to Rs 20 lakh as it would entail substantial hike in insurance premiums.
 
 “Once we ( ) complete five years, we would be able to save 50% of lives lost due to road accidents. We are working towards it,” road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari said while insisting during his reply in the lower House that the basic aim of the bill is “to save human lives”.
 
 Annually, at least 5 lakh road crashes take place claiming around 1.5 lakh lives.
 
 Organisations that have been campaigning for a stronger law have welcomed the passage of the Bill.
 
