Panaji: Over 100 faithful from the state, along with people from around the world, will travel to Portugal for the 100th anniversary of the Marian apparition reported in Fatima, Portugal. 

 Pope Francis will go on a pilgrimage to the Shrine of Our Lady of Fatima from May 12 till May 13 and has announced that Fatima, Francisco and Jacinta Marto, the three shepherd children will be canonized.
 
 The pilgrimage marks the anniversary of the apparitions which began on May 13, 1917, when three shepherd children Lucia Santos and her cousins Francisco and Jacinto Marto reported seeing the Virgin Mary who called for prayer, penance and reparation.
 
 Proprietor of the pilgrimage travel company, Zion Tours and Travels, Paul Siqueira has been planning the trip for many months now and has more than 100 people booked. 
 
 “A crowd of 10 lakh people are expected to gather in Fatima. Pope Francis will visit the children’s houses and graves and lead a candlelight procession on May 13. This is the most recorded apparition that has ever taken place in the world,” he told STOI.
 
 The apparitions are reported to have taken place once a month till October 13, 1917, and were later declared worthy of belief by the Catholic Church.
 
 “I always had a great devotion for Mother Mary. Three years ago, I realized that the 100th anniversary would be celebrated this year and I made a personal vow to go there,” says Savio Noronha, who will be travelling along with his family.
 
 Siqueira takes two busloads of faithful, twice a year, to the shrine that is visited by people from all over the world.
 
 Archbishop Filipe Neri Ferrao has announced a diocesan celebration of the centenary on May 13 at Se Cathedral from 2.45pm till 7pm. 
 
 The celebration will end with a candlelight procession from the cathedral to the St Joseph Vaz Spiritual Renewal Centre, where a Marian Plaza has been erected. Ferrao will consecrate the diocese of Goa to the Immaculate Heart of Mary at the end of the mass at Se Cathedral.
 
 
