GURGAON:   is  , and while pints rather than drums are more suitable for the  , no doubt many in the city will be raising their tumblers to the water of life.

 From the finest of blends to aged malts, whisky remains   (or second favourite, if pottering about on fairways and greens is your idea of relaxation). It is the preferred tipple of many across the world, including the well-travelled (and well-stocked)  .
 
 No doubt a few five-star hotels, and bars and pubs, would be lining up a tribute to the best elixir known to man. As the recent enforced ‘prohibition’ proved, Gurgaon does have its share of watering holes, catering for every type of tippler. Bars in five-star hotels, swanky or elegant or exclusive, where conversations flow easily. Or, at the other end of the drinking experience, the straight-up, unembellished thekas/ahaatas, for those who prefer on-the-go boozy kicks over leisurely, drawn-out highs (though you’re unlikely to see folks appreciating an Islay malt at such joints).
 
 Now, if ever there was a whisky that reflected Gurgaon’s personality, what would it taste like? Well, it would likely ‘distill’ prominent attributes of the city’s migrant communities, creating a ‘blend’ not like any other. Only, the malts in this ‘blend’ have not been given time to mature (just like the city).
 
 And the name? While ‘Ye Old Gurugrammer’ might be a moniker more fitting for a lager of character, ‘The Guru Gram’ is the perfect label for a local whisky. It even lends itself to a funky catchphrase (‘Enjoy a ‘dram’ of Guru Gram’).
 
 The Guru Gram’s initial fiery feel gives way to a cosmopolitan-smoothness, enough to make you believe the whisky’s going down a little too easy. But then, there’s an unexpectedly desi twist, a robustly rural aftertaste that reminds you of where you are. It’s not a blend that will be to everyone’s taste, but it’s one that pretty much sums up the Gurgaon experience – a place that continues to be muddled work in progress, where the rough has to be taken with the smooth.
 
 So whether you choose to call it whisky or whiskey, ‘The Guru Gram’ promises spirited, Haddockian company. But be warned. Like pothole- and traffic-free roads, and dependable water and power supply, you might find this blend rather elusive.
 
