TALHAN/JALANDHAR: A shrine, which shot into prominence when   to representation in its management, ensued by a caste clash that catapulted careers of a few   to fame, has been reflective of the   over the years. A decade back violence had erupted here over shrine control, but now offerings of toy planes are being made by devotees of any caste. So much so,  , also known as Talhan gurdwara, is now gaining fame as Jahaazaanwala Gurdwara.

 A cash-rich shrine, Jats, Dalits and members from other communities now visit it with devotion and it does not appear to be a place of contention anymore. “There is no dispute now and anyone can visit the shrine,“ said Lal Chand, a Dalit mason and resident of the village, while coming out of the shrine.
 
 Keeping in mind the ensuing elections, parties are desperately trying to woo Dalits, who have a high population percentage in Punjab. But Talhan can help one understand the fact that Dalits don't make a homogenous vote bank and remain divided among different par ties. To back this, it has been seen that no single caste is backing any particular party.
 
 Going in the past, Talhan had started simmering over the abovesaid is sue in the last decade and reached a boiling point in 2003 when the caste clash took place. Adi-dharmi community members, who have majority in villages demanded representation it its management, which till then was dominated by Jats. The issue was finally resolved after several days of tension, which included imposition of curfew, followed by political and police intervention and inclusion of two of their members in the managing committee after they became Amritdhari (baptised) Sikhs.
 
 However, in 2006 the administration made an appointment after differences emerged in the committee.But this time caste was not the issue.
 
 Interestingly, cer tain members of the Dalit Action C o m m i t t e e, wh i c h w a s for med to spearhead the cause of Dalits with repre sentation of activists ntation of activists from different groups, became prominent leaders. Vijay Sampla was then little known be yond his vil lage Sofi Pind, P aw a n Te e n u was still a young budding leader of the BSP, Sukhwinder Kotli was locally known as a BSP leader, Manjit Bali was not much known beyond his village Talhan. While Sampla scaled heights in a party identified more with Hindus, Teenu joined SAD and thrived, and Bali is now state president of BJP SC Morcha. Baljinder Bittu, a panchayat member then, who was among those jailed and owed allegiance to the BSP, now supports Teenu and acts as a de-facto sarpanch following his wife Sunita Rani's election as sarpanch.
 
 “Though there is no tension in the village and a lot of things have changed, certain issues are still dealt with cautiously,“ said Bittu.He admitted that major development tasks in the village had been undertaken with funds from the gurdwara.
 
 “The issue of money was always there. It had led to the caste clash then as the shrine has income of lakhs of rupees,“ said an old timer, who was one of the participants in the dispute at that time.
 
 
 
 
 Some relative told us if one prays at the shrine with devotion it helps and so we have come here,“ said Harminder Singh. He has come from Ludhiana, along with Charanvir Singh, and offered two toy planes. Both want to go to Canada. As dozens of toys are offered, these are distributed among visiting kids. “Mostly, devotees aspiring to go abroad visit, but those with other wishes also come,“ said Surjit Singh, who performs ardaas. “The trend of offering of toy planes started fivesix years ago when somebody who offered a toy plane after his wish was fulfilled and the word started spreading,“ said head granthi Manjit Singh, who has been here for 25 years. “A month and half ago, a man came from Gujarat for thanksgiving. He said he took a vow if he would get visa, he would visit here again. His wish was fulfilled.“
 
 
 
 
 A bout the Dalits remaining divided, octogenarian Dalit author and Amedkarite, Lahri Ram Balley, who also worked with B R Ambedkar for sometime, said that Ambedkar tried to unite SCs but the ruling class, irrespective of its apparent identity or different organizations, kept them divided and did not allow any social engineering to happen for its vested political, social and economic interests. He admitted that the two largest SC communities in Punjab never came on same page politically.“They were being ruled and these were the rulers who rather worked to widen the rifts in them,“ he added.
 
