MADURAI/ VELLORE: In one of the biggest heists in  , 37 kilograms of  , valued at over Rs 10 crore, was burgled from a jewellery store at   town early on Friday morning. However, later in the evening, the loot was believed to have been recovered from a car in which the gang was trying to sneak out of the state, thanks to an alert driver. The gang of five managed to escape into the forest area in Christianpet along the Tamil Nadu -  .

 According to Tirunelveli police, preliminary investigation revealed that the   was committed by a gang of at least four people. The culprits had gained entry into the three-storied building through the terrace. Police sources said the gang entered the building by cutting open the grill gate with a gas cutter which was recovered. The burglary took place even though two security guards were on duty at the shop’s front gate. They did not feel anything suspicious as the burglars seemed to have kept away from the ground floor. Police suspect that the robbers reached the terrace through the scaffold erected in the adjoining building where construction work is under way.
 
 The targeted store, Alagar Jewellers, belongs to Babu from Tuticorin. The firm has several branches in Tuticorin and Kanyakumari districts. The incident came to light only when the shop was opened for sales. While initial reports pegged the loss at 50kg of jewellery, higher officials clarified later in the day that 37kg was stolen. The burglars had also looted Rs10 lakh cash.
 
 Meanwhile, in Vellore, police seized five bags full of gold ornaments from the car and launched a search for the gang which escaped into the forest area in Christianpet.
 
  The five persons, on the pretext of tourists, had approached the owner of Sam Travels, Samuel, around 5.30 pm on Friday. They hired the vehicle for Tirupathi. “We usually ask for photocopy of the ID card of the people hiring the vehicle for our safety. They said they will give the ID proof on the way. They were speaking in Hindi. Apart from this, they were also fighting among themselves,” said one of the drivers in the travels quoting Samuel.
 
