It’s one thing to perform at a United Nations event, but it’s a completely different thing to do it twice in two years, which is what Bengaluru’s very own   has managed to do. The Grammy award-winning composer performed a special piece of music for the SDG (Sustainable Development Goals) Innovation Event, organized by the President of the  ,  , on May 17 at the   in New York, the US.

  Speaking about honour, Ricky says, “I have always considered the United Nations to be the greatest stage on earth. It is such an honour to perform on the same stage that every leader has stood on, and where every major planetary summit or decision has been initiated.”
 
  As a musician who is vocal about environmental consciousness and creating awareness on climate change, this opportunity was the cause for a lot of joy. “I strongly believe that all artistes have an obligation to use their art to make this world a better place. On my part, I’ve travelled the world performing, recording and encouraging musicians to collaborate with me to spread a positive message,” says Ricky.
 
  Last year, Ricky’s album Shanti Samsara was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with the then President of France, Francois Hollande, at the   in Paris. The album was a celebration of humans’ relationship with nature and featured 500 musicians from over 40 countries.
 
  While the musician spends a lot of time spreading the message of eco consciousness, he’s particular that he doesn’t come across as preachy. Elaborating his point, he says, “I don’t consider myself to be an environmental activist, nor do I shame anyone or any group through my talks and performances. All I do is use my music as a positive reinforcement to encourage my fans and audiences to fall in love with our planet, because, at the end of the day, we will only protect what we love. All of us are in this together, and we need to work as one.”
 
  The composer has a slew of concerts lined up in countries such the UK, the US, France, South Africa, etc, to spread the message on environmental consciousness.
 
 
