RANCHI: Chief secretary   and director general of police (DGP) DK Pandey visited Saryu village under Latehar district on Wednesday to review the status of the  . 

 Considered as one of the base areas of CPI ( ) till few years ago, the former Congress government at the Centre had initiated an action plan to tackle left wing extremism (LWE) in this area. Security and infrastructure development, reach of government schemes and political mobilisation of the local population remained the main areas of focus.
 
 On Wednesday, Verma directed the local administration to hold door-to-door surveys for a number of government schemes to be implemented successfully in the region. Acknowledging the fact that the education of children in the region has been adversely affected in the past, Verma asked the district education officer to conduct house-to-house survey in 38, mostly LWE-affected villages, and ensure that every child is enrolled in schools. 
 
 “Cluster resource person, block resource person and Panchayat sevaks must be engaged to enrol the dropout school children into   (KGBV) and other residential schools,” the chief secretary said.
 
 Asking the deputy development commissioner to ensure that one woman from each household is linked to Sakhi mandal, where they are trained to become self-reliant, Verma directed civil surgeons to hold door to door survey in at least 5,000 households in the affected locality. She also directed the surgeons to ensure that women are brought to government hospitals for institutional delivery and provided the benefits of motherhood schemes. 
 
 The executive engineer of drinking water and sanitation department was asked to thoroughly monitor the handpumps so that necessary repair work could be taken up before the onset of summer.
 
 Verma also distributed cash to villagers under the   (NRLM) worth Rs18.90 lakh, Rs 56.91 lakh under agriculture department and Rs 3.56 under social welfare department. “They are with the civil administration and the government will take care of their (villagers’) requirements,” she said.
 
 The DGP, while addressing the gathering at Saryu Vikas Mela, said the police department plans to conduct a special training camp for the local youth to make them capable of participating in the recruitment drive in the police department. “We are keen on recruiting youth from this particular belt because they are aware of the terrain and have seen hardships,” he said.
 
 
