VADODARA: The   presented by   (FM)   was an eye-opener on  . This is what eminent tax expert Mukesh Patel said at the ‘Analysis of the Union Budget 2017’ programme organized by Central Gujarat Chamber of Tax Consultants in the city on Sunday.

 “For the first time, the FM shared some startling figures in terms of tax compliance. The figures reveal that there are only 76 lakh taxpayers declaring income above Rs5 lakh and only 1.72 lakh taxpayers declaring income above Rs50 lakh. This and the lifestyle and consumption patterns along with substantial deposits which got deposited between November 8 and December 30 completely belie the figures which represent tax collections,” he said. 
 
 “The loud and clear message of this budget is that tax non-compliance is rampant and the FM has made it clear that it will be strictly dealt with the help of data mining and information technology. It is going to be IT for IT. Never before any FM has so transparently pointed out compliance data,” he said, adding that it is clear that in years to come if there is improved tax compliance, the FM would have more Santa gifts to offer. 
 
 The budget continued to focus on the agenda which Prime Minister Narendra Modi described as TEC - Transform, Energize and Clean. The thrust was to give relief to middle class income taxpayers who suffered on account of demonetization and also to sectors that were badly hit by scrapping of currency notes. 
 
 “To the MSME sector, he has given five per cent tax cut which is quite significant. Another welcome change is with regard to the shifting of the base year for computation of capital gains from 1981 to 2001. And this will save substantial tax with reference to transactions of immovable property where otherwise a lot of underhand dealings were prevalent,” he said. 
 
 “The focus was also on encouraging digital economy. If a person receives cash of more than Rs3 lakh it will attract penalty of 100 per cent. In the same line, limit of donations to charitable trust entitled for deduction has been reduced to Rs2,000 and also for contributions to political parties made in cash, the limit has been brought down to Rs2,000. So the focus is to curb movement and generation of black money to the extent possible,” he said. 
 
 
