Mumbai: For the first time in 25 years, IT industry body   has deferred giving the revenue outlook for the Indian IT-BPM industry by a quarter, which reflects the state of flux that the $155-billion Indian IT sector is in. Nasscom is taking a more calibrated approach of seeking feedback from key stakeholders — IT companies and analysts — to improve its forecasting after the original one went awry.

 Nasscom president   said that quantifying positive outlook does require some more effort. “Given the kind of uncertainties and the fact that we had shared the revised guidance in November, nothing much has happened between then and now to increase or reduce the extent of uncertainty. We do hope that over the next quarter, we will give a reliable and accurate estimate. The writing on the slide is very clear.”
 
 The software body’s chairman C P Gurnani said, “If we wanted to give a guidance, we could have guided for 6-10% growth. But due to political uncertainties and state of our own industry due to digital transition, we have deferred guidance till next quarter.”
 
 Nasscom had lowered the forecast to 8-10% (in constant currency) for 2016-17, from 10-12% that it had provided at the beginning of the financial year. The move was widely expected, given that company after company was reporting lower than expected revenue growth.   had lowered its revenue guidance for the year thrice, Wipro’s growth is modest and Cognizant, which follows the calendar year, had lowered its revenue guidance for the year in the past three quarters. Unexpected outcomes in the   vote and the US presidential election had created a lot of uncertainty, resulting in delayed decision-making and deferment of IT spends.
 
 Phil Fersht, CEO of  , said that the IT services market is in a state of flux because of Trump’s impending executive order on H-1B visas and other potential immigration issues. “However, despite the uncertainty, it should be possible to factor these in and make some predictions,” he added.
 
 The softness in the BFSI (banking, financial services & insurance) space on account of US interest rates not hardening as expected has added to the uncertainty. “We have nothing new at this point to add given the huge set of uncertainties, whether it is in terms of macroeconomic outlook, currency fluctuations or the political volatility with the new government in the US. Discretionary spending by the BFSI clients has also not gone up,” Chandrashekhar said.
 
 Peter Bendor-Samuel, CEO of  , said, “I wonder if the industry deceleration we have been forecasting is catching them by surprise and they are getting feedback from the market that their original forecast is badly off. They may also be looking for a way to tell a better story given these challenging times. Another contributing factor to the uncertainty could be the pause in globalisation that is occurring as signalled by the new administration in the US and Brexit and they need more time to watch how this plays out.”
 
 Though Nasscom has shied away from giving the outlook, it expects the Indian IT sector to close the year with a growth rate of 8.6% (in constant currency) in the 2016-17 financial year to touch over $155 billion, in a year of muted global growth. The industry currently employs over 3.86 million people, an addition of 1.7 lakh people over last year. It has launched the skilling programme in partnership with the Boston Consulting Group, is working together with the industry on a two-pronged approach to enhance the skills ecosystem that aims to re-skill 1.5-2 million people over the next four-five years. 
 
 “We do believe India will continue to have an advantage — we are skill-ready. The growth is coming from BPM companies, platform services and digital, whether it is data or analytics. I personally believe the market which will probably de-grow is traditional outsourcing,” said Chandrashekhar.
 
 
