NAGPUR “If you (judges) do not discharge your duty properly, common man will have no choice but to resort to unethical means,” said  , chief justice of  , on Sunday. “Nothing should stop you from delivering justice. When you take up a case you will probably make an enemy and a doubtful friend. You are the master of your case and you have the authority to write on that,” she added. 

 “Justice is justice. Whether it is an injunction order or a matter of national security, it has no agenda and does not discriminate on the basis of caste or language. Fire cannot burn it and water cannot drown it,” she said. Judges are lucky because departments like revenue and police face a lot of external pressure, maybe from government and political parties. Judges are free from that, she added.
 
 Chellur was addressing the legal fraternity on the role of judicial officers in implementing schemes of   (Nalsa) and effective implementation of Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) mechanism at a city hotel. The address was part of a regional conference conducted by Maharashtra State Legal Services Authority, Mumbai, and others. High court judges  , BP Dharmadhikari and BR Gavai shared the dais.
 
 Justice Dharmadhikari spoke on what it means to be a judge. “As a judge, I have noticed that it is absolutely necessary to maintain an equilibrium between senior and junior lawyers. It is our duty to see that this equilibrium is there. Confidence building also becomes a part of our duty. Lawyers are individuals trying to get their clients justice. Therefore, it is of utmost importance that we listen to what they say and give it proper consideration.” According to him, the most difficult part is to show that justice is being delivered. 
 
 Speaking on ‘Empathy and sensitivity of judges while delivering judgments to marginalized sections of the society’, Justice Gavai said, “Equality does not mean equality for all. It means equal treatment to all.” Women are considered as the most backward section of the society, he said, citing a number of case laws. “Judges play an important role in the process of delivering judgment as thought by the framers of the Constitution.”
 
 Justice Patil spoke on the constitutional responsibility of judges in today’s scenario. “The position of a judge cannot be compared to a civil servant. India is one of the largest democracies of the world and in spite of the huge pendency of cases in courts, litigants have shown faith in the judicial system.” He said, “Judges should maintain sobriety. They should be fair and impartial. They should have calm and composed mannerisms along with an uninfluenced attitude and a commitment to follow the required procedure.”
 
