Fatehgarh Sahib: The police department of Fatehgarh Sahib on Tuesday claimed that a five-and-a-half-year-old murder case of a Nepalese domestic servant has been sloved. Apprantely, the servent was stabbed to death in the house of a local businessman of Mandi Gobindgarh on February 17, 2012. 

 Fatehgarh Sahib senior superintendent of police (SSP) Alka Meena said the accused Gopal Sharma alias Gopi (a resident of Gandhi Nagar) and his accomplice Sunny killed Ram Bahadur who worked for Joginder Pal Singla, in an attempt to rob the house in the absence of the owners.
 
 She said despite conducting a thorough investigation of the crime, the cops were unable to crack the case. Of late, the police received a tip-off that Gopal and Sunny were heard discussing the murder of the servent at the house of Singla. Following which, the officials re-opened the case file and started investigation.
 
 On the basis of another clue, police apprehended Gopal and Sunny, who confessed to the crime during interrogation.
 
 Accused said that they were friends with Ram Bahadur and would often visit him. A few days prior to the murder, Ram Bahadur had told Gopal that Joginder Pal and his family would not be present at the house for the next few months as they were flying abroad.
 
 On the day of the crime, Gopal and Sunny reached the house and overpowered Ram Bahadur who was taken to the basement of the house where he was stabbed to death. They told the cops that the idea was to grab the keys of the house, which used to be in the possession of Ram Bahadur, and rob the house.
 
 However, as they tried to enter the house, pet dogs of the owner raised an alarm and both fled from the spot. They called up another accomplice Chetan who reached the crime scene on a motorbike and helped the two to escape.
 
 SSP Meena said they are trying to track down Chetan, who had helped the two accused in escaping. She said during the investigations, it had also come to light that Gopal Sharma already has a number of other cases registered against him at various police stations in and around Mandi Gobindgarh.
 
 
