The twin great-greatgrandsons of Mahatma Gandhi’s “fifth son” have become billionaires riding the draft of their uncle’s motorcycle business. Anurang Jain’s net worth hit $1.1 billion, according to the  , after auto parts maker   soared 74% since its October IPO.

 His brother, Tarang, has a $1.1 billion fortune based on the valuation of  , which also makes components for motorcycles and cars. Both firms have long counted their uncle Rahul Bajaj’s   Ltd as their biggest customer.
 
 The families trace their lineage to Jamnalal Bajaj, a freedom fighter Gandhi considered his fifth son. Jamnalal, who created   in 1926, used to live in Gandhi’s ashram. Rahul is Jamnalal’s grandson. 
 
 I will be the first to shout at them (Anurang and Tarang) if I find any problem,”  , 78, said. “Bajaj Auto has always insisted on better quality and lower cost.”
 
 Bajaj, who recalls sitting in Gandhi’s lap and digging wells at his ashram, realized that what propelled his family most was a quest for success.
 
 “People say, while you are a child, you think of being a policeman or a pilot,” Bajaj said in an interview with   in 2014. “I never thought of anything else: business, business, business.”
 
 Since then, Bajaj transformed himself into the king of the Indian scooter industry and amassed a personal fortune valued at $4.2 billion, ranking him No. 433 on the Bloomberg index of the world’s 500 richest people.
 
 Publicly traded Bajaj Auto, started by Rahul’s father and run by his son since 2005, is the group’s flagship business and India’s largest exporter of motorcycles and three-wheelers. 
 
 The company is part of Bajaj Group, controlled by the billionaire and three cousins — Madhur, Niraj and Shekhar — through Bajaj Holdings & Investment.
 
 Varroc, based in Aurangabad, is India’s No. 1 motorcycle parts supplier and had revenue of $1.5 billion in fiscal 2017, according to its website.
 
 Publicly traded Endurance had revenue of $831 million in the year which ended on March 31, most derived from its aluminum casting business.
 
 Rahul’s father took control of the family business in 1942, creating the precursor to Bajaj Auto three years later and expanding the enterprise to include cement, electrical appliances and scooters.
 
 The scooter business kicked the family fortune into high gear. Built up by Bajaj during the 1970s and ’80s, it became India’s top scooter brand while expanding to Colombia, Sri Lanka and Nigeria.
 
 “What matters are results,” Rahul recalled telling his eldest son after he hatched a plan to abandon the scooter business. “The day I find in totality you are not good for the company, I will talk to you. The fact that you are a Bajaj will not save you.” 
 
