BHOPAL: Wife of an armyman from Rewa district—Yagya Pratap Singh— who uploaded a video on social media depicting poor service conditions, has claimed that her husband has started a hunger strike after his seniors disapproved of his posts. Singh was the first armyman and third jawan from forces including para-military to embarrass the forces highlighting poor food and work conditions.

 In the video, Singh had alleged the soldiers were being subjected to car-washing and dog walking at the houses of senior officials. Talking to TOI over phone from his home town, of Rewa, his wife Richa Singh claimed that Yagya Pratap has started hunger strike at Fatehgarh after his mobile phone was taken away by his senior officials.
 
 “Yesterday he managed to call me anyhow for a few seconds and informed that his mobile phone has been taken away. Today again he called me in the morning and informed that he has started a hunger strike. He said that he is doing it for the good of the soldiers and he is not scared to give his life for the cause,” Richa said.
 
 “He could hardly talk to me for a few seconds using the cell phone of another soldier as his phone has been taken away from him. Now, I have also started a strike. All I want is to talk to my husband and he should be presented before media persons, so that it is ascertained that he is safe and not in confinement. Also every soldier should be allowed to have a smartphone. The senior officials have taken away the phone of my husband and were giving him a basic phone which he refused to accept,” Richa Singh said.
 
 The video footage of Yagya Pratap Singh that was uploaded on YouTube, shows him protesting against being made to wash his superiors’ cars and walk their dogs. Lance naik Yagya Pratap Singh is with 14 Rajputana Rifles and is posted in Fatehgarh now.
 
 His wife further said, “I lived with my husband when he was posted at Dehradun. He and his fellow jawans were made to clean clothes, polish shoes, do the shopping, clean houses, and even take care of the pets of officers.” 
 
 “My husband dared to complain against this injustice and now he is being punished,” she said.
 
