NAGPUR:   is going to be next big   now with the   allotting yet another national-level institution on the land near it. The National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (NIPER) would be starting its operations from Kaladongri near Mihan.

 TOI, in its December 4 edition, first reported about the government changing its plans for setting up the prestigious institution at Kaladongri instead of earlier site at Mohgaon on Amravati Road, about 20 kms from the city.
 
 “The decision in this regard was made during recent cabinet meeting held in Mumbai. Very soon, process to hand over the land would be completed,” guardian minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule told TOI. It would come up on 40 acres near land allotted to Maharashtra National Law University (MNLU).
 
 NIPER would be sixth top level institution on the Wardha Road, after AIIMS, IIM, IIIT, MNLU, and GCOE. According to the city educationists, Wardha Road would be one of the most sought after destinations for pursuing higher education in the country, once all of them commence operations.
 
 TOI on February 29, 2015, first reported about NIPER coming up in the city, after it was announced for Maharashtra by union minister Arun Jaitley during 2015 budget. 
 
 Sources from the office of joint director of technical education in Nagpur attributed the change in place of NIPER to top pharma industries like Glenmark and Zim Laboratories, coming up at Mihan. Already pharmacy major Lupin is operating at Special Economic Zone (SEZ) of Mihan and has massive expansion plans.
 
 “Since all these majors were setting up the base in Mihan, it would be better if the top-notch institution is established in same area. It would not only provide convenience for the students, but also for the industries, as they could easily recruit them for internships. Even top officials of these companies could visit NIPER for delivering guest lectures,” they said.
 
 They added that it would be convenient for companies’ representatives to conduct placement interviews, as it would save their precious time. The students could visit these companies anytime to learn about their working.
 
 Last year, a team of Union Chemicals and Fertilizers Ministry visited the old site near Mohgaon, but wasn’t in favour of that land. Collector   then took them to Kaladongri, which they liked, due to logistics and also the fact that all top level institutions were coming up on the same stretch. After their consent, the collector asked State Higher and Technical Education Department to complete the formalities of handing over the land. The department entrusted the task to Mumbai-based Directorate of Technical Education (DTE) through which it came to joint director for technical education’s office in the city.
 
 
