NEW DELHI: The   has come down heavily on appointments made by Delhi government, many of them without the necessary permission of the lieutenant governor. The most glaring incident, which the report describes as “fascinating“, related to the appointment of Gopal  , originally as advisor (anti-corruption) at a remuneration of one rupee and later as advisor (grievances) on a monthly salary of Rs 1.15 lakh.

 There are several appointments that were thought to be suspect by the panel. Mohan's case, howe ver, is described as going through a “series of deft moves apparently designed to provide him benefits“. Mohan's reassignment after starting with an honorarium of one rupee duly approved by the lieutenant governor to advisor (grievances) on a healthy salary with retrospective effect has been called a “sleight of hand“.
 
 The report also criticised the unsanctioned appointment of   as advisor in the office of the chief minister as a coterminus post.
 
 “There was no sanctioned post of advisor on coterminus basis in the office of the chief minister and co-terminus appointments need LG's approval, which was not taken,“ the report said. Bhasin, who is described as having cleared Class XII but not completing the advance diploma course in travel and tourism, was appointed advisor to the chief minister on tourism.
 
 “Curiously in the order of appointment, the GAD makes specific mention that the chief minister desires that the person should be paid a salary of Rs 1,50,00,“ the report pointed out.
 
 Another example cited is of Abhinav Rai. Appointed to the post of OSD at a salary of Rs 87,000, the appointment, the report claimed, was shown as recruitment against the vacancy for an upper division clerk. The report said the remuneration paid to Rai on contract and co-terminus appointment, was four times that of a UDC.And in violation of rule, the LG's approval was not acquired. Also, despite being a contract employee, Rai was given government accommodation, that too one meant for a higher-ranked official.
 
 Similarly ,  's appointment as advisor to the minister of tourism has been indicted as illegal. “The due process of issuing an advertisement and making a proper selection, etc. are all given the go-by,“ the report said.DTTDC made no effort to check Shankar's qualifications and experience or verified his antecedents while appointing him at a salary of Rs 60,000.
 
 P Parija, an advocate, too did not have the requisite experience to be appointed the member (administration) of the   for a full term, according to the committee. The norm was to appoint a secretary-level official to the post, but Parija's name was cleared by the deputy chief minister without following due process, the report noted.
 
