Surat: The indefinite strike by textile traders in the country’s largest man-made fabric (MMF) hub in the city has cast a dark shadow over the Rs 40,000 crore textile sector of Surat. 

 The powerloom weaving sector, which employs over eight lakh workers on more than 6.5 lakh powerloom machines, has seen reduction in the manufacturing of grey fabric by almost 80 per cent in the last one week. While around 60 per cent of powerlooms have been keeping their units shut for three days a week and operating just one shift, around 95 per cent of the units doing job-work have been shut. 
 
 Industry experts said powerloom units have stock of grey fabrics worth Rs1,500 lying in their factories due to the indefinite strike by the textile traders. There is a visible daily loss of Rs50 crore as the grey fabric production is at 20 per cent of the 4 crore meter per day capacity. 
 
 Pandesara Weavers Cooperative Society Limited (PWCSL) president Ashish Gujarathi told TOI, “Textile traders are an important chain in the textile sector. Since the traders are on an indefinite strike since the past four days, the weaving sector has almost come to a standstill. Apart from Rs50 crore worth of daily losses, there is a huge outstanding of payments running into over Rs600 crore, which is blocked due to the traders’ strike. If the strike continues for long, textile workers will start moving out of the city and the weavers will have to shut their units.”
 
 Gurudas Tripathi, a labour consultant in weaving industry, said, “Textile workers are in a dire situation due to the ongoing strike. Most of the weavers have been keeping their units shut for three days a week and running their units in single shift. This has rendered many jobless. In the next three days, many migrant workers may start moving out of the city.”
 
 On the other hand, textile processing sector, too is in a dire situation. The sector is sitting at losses to the tune of over Rs200 crore. 
 
 South Gujarat Textile Processors Association (SGTPA) president Jitu Vakharia said, “The production of finished fabrics is at 25 per cent with losses to the tune of Rs30 crore per day. Most of the textile mills are observing shutdown for two days a week to adjust the losses.”
 
 
