MUMBAI:  , managing director and chief executive of Indian Hotels Company Ltd (IHCL), resigned from the hospitality chain of the Tata Group on Friday. Sarna's abrupt resignation comes well ahead of the five-year tenure that was to end in August 2019, which makes him the shortest serving chief of the 114-year-old chain.

 Sarna's position at IHCL remained a question mark after Cyrus   was removed as chairman of the company's parent   last October. Mistry had handpicked Sarna, a former Hyatt veteran, in 2014 to restructure IHCL, which was battling losses due to expensive acquisitions. Following Mistry's removal, Tata Sons and IHCL in October 2016 had dismissed talk of Sarna's exit as 'completely baseless' and 'unfounded' speculation.
 
 But the buzz about Sarna's departure grew louder in recent weeks.
 
 The grapevine buzzed about Sarna's exit even as a three-member independent panel gave a clean chit to him after finding no evidence to support a former woman colleague's sexual harassment allegations.   insiders told TOI that Sarna (60) would be asked to resign, though it was delayed by independent director Keki Dadiseth's resignation.
 
 Incidentally, Dadiseth, the former   honcho who headed the audit committee of IHCL before resigning last month, did not sign on the report exonerating Sarna.
 
 When TOI had reached out to Sarna on his proposed exit on May 12, the Taj chief in an e-mail said, "I'm not aware of any such development and can confirm that there are no such discussions (with Tata Group) underway." In a communique to the stock exchanges, IHCL said that Sarna has resigned from the company for "personal reasons".
 
 "Sarna has chosen to resign upon completion of his three-year tenure as MD and CEO of the company. The board respects his decision and has requested him to continue till September 30, which he has kindly agreed to," said N Chandrasekaran, chairman of IHCL.
 
 As per the employment terms between Sarna and IHCL, his contract is terminable by six months’ notice by either parties. 
 
 Besides being an employee of IHCL, Sarna, one of the best paid CEOs in the Tata Group, is also an employee of United Overseas Holdings Inc, the US-based arm, which is the umbrella company for Taj’s international properties.
 
 Sources said Sarna's closeness to Mistry made IHCL's promoters uncomfortable. There have been perceived differences on several factors, including some of the appointments made at IHCL by him without keeping the promoters in loop as well as on the strategic roadmap ahead. In the bitter corporate battle that followed Mistry's sacking, the IHCL board had initially rallied behind the former chairman, raising the hackles at Tata Sons and Tata Trusts.
 
 “It’s been an honor to serve the Tata Group and I would like to thank my board members and colleagues for their support during my stint at IHCL," Sarna said.
 
 Sarna’s exit comes at a time when IHCL is gearing up for an aggressive bid to retain Taj Mansingh Delhi, which is one of the flagship properties of the company. 
 
 Sarna is the third member to resign from IHCL board in recent weeks after Dadiseth and Shapoor Mistry.
 
 During his three-year term at IHCL, Sarna has improved the company’s financials with losses coming down from Rs 82 crore in fiscal 2015 to Rs 45 crore in fiscal 2017.
 
