MUMBAI: The teachers at the IITs across the country have been served with notices from the   tax department asking them to pay a levy for   on campus. Currently, faculty living on campus pay a licence fee to the college as per their contract. 

 Comparing institutes to public sector undertakings, the notice from the income   department, stated that housing was a perquisite and hence would be taxable. The 23 IITs have a faculty population of close to 7,500. 
 
 Both government and non-government employees have to pay tax on perquisite value when the employer provides accommodation. For non-government employees the perquisite value is up to 15% of the salary (lower for smaller towns) minus rent, if any, paid by the employees. For government employees, the perquisite value is the licence fee determined by the government minus the rent, if any, paid by the government employees. This perquisite value is added to salary income, which in turn increases the total taxable salary and the I-T liability. 
 
 The standing committee of   Council which met recently, discussed this “concern” at length, and apprised HRD minister Prakash Javadekar about it. Javadekar, in turn, assured directors that he would follow up with finance minister Arun Jaitley.
 
 Faculty members say they are contemplating shifting out of the residential colleges. At times, tests are held at 10 pm, often, lab sessions go on till late evening, some Sundays are spent working on streams of codes. But all that could change forever. The 24x7 campus, derives its mark and meaning from the fact that the lights never go off, said insiders. “The entire character of the institutes will change if faculty demand HRA (house rent allowance) and move out,” said a head. “The excellence at IITs is derived not just from the teaching, more so from the research that takes place through the day and night.” Currently, faculty members at the Indian Institute of Bangalore pay this tax “under protest” since 2013-14. The IISc has filed an appeal against this in the local court too.
 
 
