PUNE: Traffic jams, haphazard parking of vehicles and people drinking in the open outside liquor shops. The complaints are the same in several parts of the city where liquor shops, unaffected by the   order, attract large crowds.

 For Nitin Rao, who works in  , the parking mess near the area is all too familiar, and at the root of it, is a liquor shop. “I sometimes go there for snacks and tea. Especially in the evening, people park their vehicles outside the designated parking spot,” said Nitin.
 
 After the Supreme Court banned liquor stores located within 500 metres of state or national highway, people started thronging shops that have not been affected. That has led to traffic snarls at various parts of the city.
 
 For example, at the Landmark shopping centre in Kalyaninagar, a comparatively new liquor shop has had crowds milling the area. Despite the area being a no-parking zone, many people who visit the shop park their two-wheelers right in front of it, sometimes even resorting to double parking. 
 
 There are many who are concerned about the impact on young minds. “The footpath near the shopping centre is littered with empty plastic glasses and liquor bottles. This is a residential area and the route is taken by children for going to school,” lamented  , a Kalyaninagar resident.
 
 On the western part of town, at Karvenagar, residents have reported occasional fights outside a liquor shop.
 
 “It is generally peaceful, but quite often there are fights in the evening over who should get alcohol first, although the owner of the shop tries to conduct business in a smooth manner. The fights are often between drunken people,”  , a fruit seller near the liquor shop, said .
 
 Even the Citizen Reporter initiative by TOI received one such complaint from a resident. “Since the liquor ban came into effect, our society off Karve Road has been facing the menace of large number of people flocking to the wine shop in our society. It has become a huge problem for women, children, men and owners of adjacent shops. The overwhelming crowd and the presence of cars and two-wheelers make it very difficult for society members to enter and leave the premises,” the resident said.
 
 She added that with bouncers being employed by the shop owner, the situation has become a little better. “Earlier it was a house arrest for us. I had never thought that Karve Road was a state highway. Why is this rule applied within city limits? Is there any way that this shop can be moved to a commercial zone?” she asked.
 
