BENGALURU:   and   are upset over realignment of the  . Due to the tussle between   (BMRC) and Indian Railways over land sharing, the Metro facility will now be at least 250 metres away from Cantonment railway station.

 While residents feel commuting to the Metro station will take long, BMRC has its own set of problems.  , special land acquisition officer, BMRC, said: “Acquiring land from the railways is cumbersome, costly and time-consuming. We met divisional railway officials in Bengaluru but were told the parcel opposite Cantonment railway station would be used for commercial purposes. Also, Indian Railways always shares land on lease, at market rates. Above all, the railway board has to approve the land-sharing deal, which takes a lot of time.“
 
 On the contrary , R K Saxena, divisional railway manager, Bengaluru, (South Western Railway division) told TOI that they haven't got any formal proposal on a Metro station opposite Cantonment railway station. The spot currently houses a parking facility. “Land sharing with central government agencies like railways and defence needs approval at the ministry level and both BMRC and SWR have identical rules. We need a formal proposal for the Metro station, need to include that in our Cantonment station redevelopment project and get approval from the board,“ he said.
 
 
 
 
 The alternative piece of land BMRC is expecting to get is 250m away from the railway station in a playground owned by BBMP near Bamboo Bazaar, mostly for free.BMRC MD Pradeep Singh Kharola said: “We will create pedestrian facilities to connect the Metro station to the railway station.“ They hope to get more commuters from the densely populated Bamboo Bazaar and Cantonment railway station.
 
 SWR officials say the land in front of the station will be developed by building malls, a parking complex and public utilities. “The station redevelopment project has been planned at the ministry level and in order to include a Metro station in the same area, we need approval from the railway board. Both the construction projects cannot be executed at the same time. However, it is technically possible to amalgamate a Metro station with the public utility buildings. But we cannot allow them (BMRC) to use any excess land that they will require for stocking and assembling construction equipment. They have to use another location for the purpose,“ said an official.
 
 
 
 
 Vasanthnagar Resident Welfare Association (VRWA) has opposed the proposal to have a Metro station far away from the railway station and is using social media to garner support. “It makes no sense for us to wait for 15 minutes for a feeder bus or walk for long to reach a Metro station for a 10-minute Metro ride to other places,“ said Rajkumar Dugar, general secretary of the association. He also blamed BMRC for not having learnt any lessons on how to deal with the railways and defence even after having faced problems during execution of Namma Metro's Phase 1.
 
