SIWAN: The state BJP on Sunday served an ultimatum to the   government to pay Rs1,000 unemployment allowance per month to all the unemployed educated youths, failing which the party would organize protests to pursue the demand.

 “Make the doles universal, payable to all educated unemployed youths, or be ready to face their wrath,” said state BJP chief Nityanand Rai after the conclusion of the two-day state executive committee meet here on Sunday.
 
 Rai was accompanied by his predecessor Mangal Pandey, leader of opposition in the state assembly Prem Kumar, party’s chief spokesman Vinod Narayan Jha, Sanjay Mayukh (MLC) and the party’s Siwan district chief Abhimanyu Singh.
 
 Incidentally, the overarching shadow of former RJD MP from Siwan  , who is in jail, seemingly loomed large over the BJP meet. The party tried to peel off the “bloodstained image” of the district and town, calling it “not the land of Shahabuddin, but of the country’s first President  , freedom fighter Mazharul Haque, leader of the 1974-students’ movement Jayaprakash Narayan (JP) and even folk theatre artist Bhikhari Thakur.”
 
 Incidentally, even though Siwan is a part of Saran division, barring Rajendra Prasad and Haque, JP and Thakur are associated with Saran, popularly called ‘Chhapra Zila’. Also, it is a mark of the impact of long incarceration of Shahabuddin that the BJP functionaries recalled how it was difficult to hold even district level meeting of the party when he was free. 
 
 Curiously, on Sunday, a media person even wondered, “How long would Siwan continue to be seen in equation with Shahabuddin?”
 
 In reply, Rai said it was true that Shahabuddin had brought bad image to Siwan, but entire Bihar was wracked by increasing instances of crime under the grand alliance government led by Nitsh, who is also the JD(U) president. “The state had seen all-round development when the first NDA government of the JD(U) and BJP was at the helm. Under the grand alliance government, the state has seen only slow and sustained decline, including in the agriculture sector,” Rai said.
 
 Earlier, the executive committee meet adopted a resolution on agriculture, stating that the party would organize protest demonstrations at block level from February 13 and 15 to highlight the problems faced by farmers in the face of government’s indifference to paddy procurement. The party would also take up programmes as part of the birth centenary celebration of the party’s founder president Deeendayal Upadhyaya from April 6 to 20. 
 
 Rai also announced party’s expansion programme by organizing life-membership campaign from January 24 to February 10.
 
