BENGALURU:  's crucial half-century in the opening Test in Pune was punctured by an ill-timed restroom break, but on Sunday the 20-year-old Queenslander had no interruptions for over three hours (200 minutes) as he stayed rooted to the crease even as the Indians attacked relentlessly with bounce, spin and words.

 Maturity and serenity were the hallmarks of his 196-ball 60. If one thought the calmness came naturally to the towering lad, he was quick to dispel the notion. He attributed his ability to stay out in the middle to a trick he learnt while playing local cricket in his younger days.
 
 Renshaw recalled his junior days where batsmen would have to retire from their stint at the crease when they reached 50 runs. “I wasn't the biggest kid... I didn't really want to let anyone else bat so I tried to get to fifty as slowly as possible,” said Renshaw, who went through a growth spurt at 17. To say the Australians are no pushovers, is stating the obvious, but what has worked for them in this series is their planning and the execution of their carefully laid out designs.
 
 On Day 2, according to Renshaw, the idea was to wear the Indian bowlers out. Admitting it was challenging to score off both the quicks and the spinners, he added: “The plan this morning was just to try and bat as long as possible and wear the Indian bowlers down. They've come off a long summer and played a lot of Tests, so we know that if we can get them into a high amount of overs, we would be in a good position. It has been really a good couple of days of Test cricket and that's what it's all about in this Test, just trying to grind it out and beat the opposition at the long game.”
 
 While he didn't put down the numbers required to have a comfortable lead, the left-handed opener, who is on a song this year, pointed out: “I think every run is vital and we felt like we were just about to get on top of the game when I got out so it was frustrating. If we'd probably got a few more runs,   and me, we could have had complete control of the game. We know that the fourth innings chase is going to be quite hard.”
 
