PUNE:   has been the caretaker at the St Andrew’s   for longer he cares to remember. What he does remember, rather distinctly, are the early hours of November 28, 2011.

 Around 4am on that fateful day, a fire raged through the church. The cause of the fire is still in question.
 
 “Almost everything inside was destroyed. The ceiling was entirely made of wood, and was completely burned down, as were the wooden benches,” Barde said, “Some of our most prized possessions were destroyed in that unfortunate fire.”
 
 For a church that had just completed 150 years of existence, it was a monumental loss, both in terms of property and history. There were no casualties, but the church lost to the conflagration almost all of its literature, pews, pulpit, and the public address system through which the pastor would deliver his sermon. 
 
 The disaster sent shock waves through the region, reaching as far as the offices of  , then chief minister of Maharashtra, who visited the site a few days later. 
 
 In heartbreak, the congregation and the church leadership vowed to have the church renovated, up and running in three months. 
 
 They did just that. On March 31, 2012, a special mass was held to celebrate the reopening of the church.
 
 From an architectural standpoint, little separates this church, which dates back to the 1860s, from the other British-built Cantonment churches in the city. The 2011 fire thankfully spared the facade, which had also survived a renovation back in 1905. It still sports a Gothic-styled cobblestone exterior, with a high, airy front porch leading into the altar.
 
 Not much remains of the original prayer hall though. For those unfamiliar with the church’s history, it would come across as a newly-competed church, replete with freshly-painted benches for parishioners, a cutting-edge music and public address system, a new coat ofpaint, and a completely reconstructed wooden ceiling, built along as per the original design.
 
 Unlike other churches, though, the steeple isn’t very high. A rusting bell-mechanism looms almost over the main entrance to the prayer hall.
 
 No church is complete without its parishioners, and at one of the only Hindi-speaking churches in the region, services are lively, multi-ethnic events.
 
 “Over 1,000 people attend church here, and they are from every part of India. These are people who generally stay in Cantonments. Very often, we have Muslims and Hindus coming here to pray with us, especially during our festivals,” says Barde, beaming with pride.
 
 
