BENGALURU: Karnataka is now banking on  , ‘neera’, the sweet sap harvested from  , to augment its financial resources in the backdrop of a  . 

 The state government’s rationale is even if one per cent of neera is extracted from coconut trees spread over 4.97 lakh hectares in the state it could bring an income of Rs 4,500 crore. 
 
 After having removed the bottlenecks pertaining to   by making amendments to the excise rules, the government is waiting for the governor’s assent to the proposed legislation that would allow Neera to be marketed as a natural nutritional drink with rejuvenation capabilities. 
 
 “Chief minister Siddaramaiah reviewed the state’s finances last week and it was found that its revenue-generation had been affected due to demonetization. There were many alternatives listed out to overcome revenue shortfall and neera was one of them,” an IAS officer said. 
 
 Permission to tap Neera was one of the long-pending demands of coconut growers and elected representatives. However, bureaucratic confusion had put the proposal on hold following fears that neera would be fermented and sold as toddy. But with coconut prices crashing in the recent times and many farmers contemplating switching over to other crops, the economics pertaining to neera was given a serious thought. At present, neera is being tapped and marketed as a natural drink by Kerala which has the largest coconut growing area in the country. 
 
 “We want to replicate the Kerala model. If 25 per cent of the spathe is taken out from a single coconut tree for making neera, a farmer can easily earn an additional income of Rs 1,000 – Rs 2,000 per tree without affecting the coconut yield. Neera tappers could also earn around 15,000 per month. This will change the   in the coconut growing areas,” an official from the horticulture department said. 
 
 Neera can be used as an ingredient in manufacturing jaggery, sugar, honey, chocolate, cake and cookies apart from being sold as a natural drink. Neera is reported to be good for treating urinary problems and diabetes.
 
 “Neera is already popular in the coastal districts of the state. We will have to start branding it in other areas. We hope its popularity levels to rise quickly given the fact that people in rural areas are becoming health conscious,” the official added.
 
 Box
 
 State’s coconut story 
 
 * Karnataka has 4.97 lakh hectares of coconut plantation; forms around 27 per cent of the state’s horticulture area.
 
 * Karnataka has the second largest coconut growing area after Kerala in the country.
 
 * Coconut-growing districts are Tumakaru, Hassan, Ramanagara, Mandya, Chikkamagaluru, Chamarajanagar, Mysuru, Chitradurga, Dakshina Kannada, Shivamogga, Uttara Kannada, Udupi, Kolar, Dharwad and Gadag.
 
 * 40 per cent of the coconut produced is used for cooking, 20 per cent for religious purposes, 30 per cent for copra production and 10 per cent for industrial use.
 
 
