SHIMLA: With   being officially declared as the  , the   has been opposing it by claiming that the state government is hell bent on burdening 70 lakh people of the state with its “politically incorrect” decision. 

 The chief whip of the BJP and Shimla MLA, Suresh Bhardwaj, said on Sunday that they opposed the decision because of its impracticability and the mala fide intention of chief minister Virbhadra Singh. He said that this was not only an attempt to undermine the importance of Shimla but also a poll plank, deceiving innocent people of Kangra district. 
 
 He said that Himachal Pradesh was a debt-ridden state. The government had failed to eliminate revenue deficit despite the exclusive grant of Rs 8,000 crore every year. At this stage, Himachal is not at all ready to have another capital, he maintained. 
 
 Bhardwaj said Virbhadra in his last political innings should have acted as a statesman and not like a typical follower of British axiom of divide and rule. He said that instead of implementing the important poll promises, like unemployment allowance, employment generation for youth, he was announcing multiple capitals of the state to divert attention of public from the most disappointing and disgusting performance of the state government. 
 
 The BJP MLA said people of the state had been struggling for basic services like health, drinking water, roads, education and unemployment. “What will the second capital achieve for people of Kangra? Virbhadra wants two capitals whereas Punjab and Haryana have a combined capital in Chandigarh., Uttrakhand, which is geographically and demographically similar to HP, has one capital in Hardwar and Uttar Pradesh with a population of 22 crore also has only one capital,” he said. 
 
 He said the chief minister should address the problems of Kangra and adjoining districts, where health institutions were without staff and other facilities. He added that youth of the state want jobs and not capitals. He continued that on unemployment allowance Virbhadra cited poor finances as a hurdle, but was ready to spend funds on the second capital. 
 
 
