Mumbai: With the   expected to grow at a faster pace this year,   has drawn up a   for  . The strategy involves a regional language mobile   app with information on weather and mandi prices. The bank is also adopting a strategy of deploying Wi-Fi billboards around its rural branches and will have officials evangelising digital banking in rural marketplaces.

 Speaking to TOI, Anup Bagchi, head of retail banking, said that the rural economy is expected to transform with all rural areas getting internet connectivity. “We have seen how introduction of road connectivity improves a village’s economy. We expect similar changes with digital connectivity,” he said.
 
 According to Bagchi, ICICI Bank is today well placed to tap the rural market with 2,300 rural branches and a large number of business correspondents. The rural branches are an outcome of the bank’s historical acquisitions of Bank of Madura, Sangli Bank and Bank of Rajasthan.
 
 “We will be launching in 700 branches and touching 60 lakh customers immediately. Our target is to get half a million customers online by way of the mobile app in six months,” said Bagchi. ICICI Bank has tied up with RML Agtech to get information on mandi prices and weather details in districts across the country.
 
 “Instead of retrofitting the existing iMobile application for rural use, we decided to build Mera iMobile ground-up because the requirements of the rural markets are completely different. Several of 135 transactions are common, but many of them are unique for rural,” said Bagchi. The bank is also using the digital billboards and the mobile app as a customer-acquisition strategy by providing information services at the pre-login stage and available even to non-customers.
 
 According to Bagchi, the app is designed such that once it is downloaded, data usage is minuscule and customers can use it without subscribing to a data plan. For those who do not own smartphones, the bank is promoting its basic mobile banking services on the message-based platform.
 
 
