Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) Dhantoli Zone has given a plot owner permission to divert a natural water stream on RPTS Road, allegedly against all norms. The plot owner has already diverted the natural water stream, and is planning to construct an apartment scheme there now. The diversion of the stream happened over a year ago, but came to fore when a builder started pressuring NMC water works department to shift a major drinking water pipeline for the same scheme. TOI had, on September 12, highlighted that the cash-strapped civic body was planning to shift the pipeline at an estimated cost of Rs1.50 crore at a builder’s request. Former mayor and corporator Pravin Datke told TOI that natural water streams or nullahs cannot be diverted at all. “I came to know about the permission given by NMC Dhantoli Zone when I was mayor. I had ordered an inquiry in the case. I think the inquiry was not conducted even though an year has passed. NMC should take action against the officials who gave the permission,” he said. Datke added the permission has set a wrong precedent in NMC. “There will now be demands for diversion of nullahs are from all parts of the city. Such permission has never been given in NMC’s history for the sake of a private flat scheme,” he said. The area comes under ward no-16 represented by ruling party leader Sandip Joshi, Tara ‘Laxmi’ Yadav and two others. Joshi expressed shock over diversion of nullah and assured to look into the case. Demanding stringent action against concerned officials, Yadav said an inquiry should also be conducted into the land for which the nullah was diverted. “The nullah has been at the spot even before my birth. It comes from inside Neeri premises. Land on both sides of the nullah was lying abandoned since years. The nullah was diverted to the boundary of the land. Also, some portion of the nullah has been covered with cement concrete slab. All these things are not permissible at all,” she said. NMC Records show assistant commissioner Subhashchandra Jaidev gave the permission when he was posted at Dhantoli Zone. “I gave the permission after taking consent of my higher ups, and reports of engineers and officials of health department. There was nothing wrong in giving the permission,” Jaidev claims. The land is owned by Dr Ashish Bhiwapurkar, who denied any diversion of nullah. “It is a storm water drain and flows only during monsoon. It used to flow from my land. Therefore, water in the drain used to come into my land. I requested NMC to stop flow of water into my land. The nullah also did not have proper retaining wall. When NMC said it had no funds, I spent my own money and strengthened and repaired the nullah, that too as per drawings and permissions given by NMC. All works were done as per NMC directions,” he said. Bhiwapurkar added that NMC should shift the water pipeline since it was in front of his land. “I came to know about the pipeline being laid in front of my land around five years ago. The pipeline has obstructed entry into my land. Therefore, the pipeline should be shifted,” he said.