PUNE: For   Aldar, a 19-year-old Mumbai lad, life had never been easy.

 After losing one of his siblings to kidney failure early in life, Akshay was diagnosed with an   in 2015. Though he was advised a transplant then itself, financial instability, emotional turbulence and unavailability of suitable donor posed a huge challenge.
 
 However, his unflinching spirit ensured that monetary troubles did not come in way of his aspirations. Even as he was battling the life-threatening disease, he appeared for his standard X exam and cleared it too.
 
 “It was in January 2015 when Akshay experienced a severe bout of chest pain and had to be admitted. It was the most testing time for the family,” Akshay’s father Kondiba, who works as an electrician at Brihan-Mumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), told TOI. 
 
 After proper investigation, it was revealed that Akshay’s liver was badly damaged due to excessive deposition of copper, a congenital genetic disorder, requiring urgent transplant.
 
 Despite suffering from the disease that sapped all his energy and made him vulnerable to a host of other health issues, he was bent on appearing for the board exam. “He wrote all his papers and passed the exam with 47% marks due to his sheer willpower,” Kondiba said.
 
 During this time, Akshay started getting physically weak.   being the last hope for Akshay, he and his family met liver transplant surgeon Bipin Vibhute.
 
 “After doctor’s assurance that he would be alright post-transplant, we started raising funds for the surgery and help started pouring in from all quarters, including trusts, friends, fellow workers and officers. Besides, I could also get sizable amount from the Prime Minister Relief Fund and BMC health scheme as well. The hospital helped too with treating doctor waiving off his fees,” he said. 
 
 A team of experts at Sahyadri hospital performed the high-risk and complicated cadaver liver transplant surgery on Akshay on April 7, 2016. However, he suffered from a paralytic attack below his waist due to compression of nerves from neck.
 
 On the seventh day after transplant, Akshay was operated for nerve decompression by a team of doctors led by neurosurgeon Ranjit Deshmukh.
 
 With a strong will power, Akshay started walking on the second day post the decompression surgery. “Now, after a year, I am leading a normal life and can walk without any support, and perform day to day chores with confidence. I want to join college this year and pursue higher  ,” Akshay said.
 
