RUDRAPUR: Construction material heaped on the national highway 74 (NH-74) in Udham Singh Nagar has resulted in 17 deaths in two months. 

  This year, between January and March, 20 accidents have been reported on the highway between Sitarganj and Bajpur, resulting in 17 deaths and injuring 24 people, according to data available with district police.
 
 Construction work on the highway commenced three years back, and the contractor is said to have heaped several units of blue metal (broken blue stone used for road-making) and sand on several points of the highway. This forces road-users, especially two-wheeler riders, to move to the middle of the road. They have to cross the spot at high speed to avoid being hit by heavy vehicles. According to data, as many as 289 people in the district have lost their lives in road accidents between January 2016 and February this year. Besides, there are many potholes on over 100-km-long stretch between Sitarganj and Bajpur, adding to the commuters' misery.
 
 The construction firm, Galfar, however, rejected the charges. Project manager Anuj Kumar said, "We remove construction materials heaped anywhere on the highway as soon as the work is over. There are some sites where concrete mixture and cement-laden trailers have been left for construction purpose, which we will remove soon." On Saturday night, a car rammed into the bike of Vinod Gadiya, a hotel owner at   colony in Rudrapur, when he was crossing a construction site in   locality. As both bike and car were moving at slow speed, Gadiya had a miraculous escape, but he received injuries in his head and other parts of the body. He was rushed to the district hospital. Gadiya said, "It's a common sight on the NH due to scattered construction materials. But, neither the district administration nor the construction firm is serious about the loss of lives."
 
 US Nagar additional superintendent of police Manjunath T C, who asked the construction firm over phone to immediately remove the construction materials heaped on the highway, told TOI that he would inspect different spots in-person to make sure that heaped materials were removed. 
 
 "They have been ordered to fill potholes. If found negligent, the construction form will have to face legal actions," added Manjunath.
 
 Locals rued when asked about the problems faced by them due to the ongoing construction work on the NH. Amit Gumber from Lalpur says, "As you reach the highway, dusty   welcomes you due to scattered construction materials like sands, gravels etc. Besides, there are diversions after almost every hundred metre."
 
