BENGALURU: For 20 years now, the city-based   (S-VYASA), a deemed university, has been striving to make yoga a part of life for those who barely get time to catch a breath. The university, under the guidance of its founder Dr HR Nagendra, has been researching techniques that make it easy for one to relax in just a few minutes.

 The Self-Management of Excessive Tension (SMET) programme has over the last two decades catered to corporate executives, businessmen, students and homemakers among others, taking the number of beneficiaries to over 35,000. The course can range from one day to one month, depending on the participant’ schedule. One can enrol at any time of the year.
 
 Three techniques under the programme —   (DRT),   (IRT) and Quick Relaxation Technique (QRT) — are about getting everyone to engage in a few minutes of intense exercises involving deep breathing, to battle stress and attain higher energy levels.
 
 RK Vij, executive director, Oil and   (ONGC), attended the training between January 9 and 13. “From theory sessions to training on cyclic meditation, the course is exceptionally good. The arrangements made with materials, audio/visuals and practice sessions make the concept extremely powerful. SMET must be spread to every district in the state,” he said.
 
 Vinodini Nambiar, a homemaker, said the topics covered aren’t just knowledge-enhancing but real eye-openers. “The coverage and content of the course are excellent. Every topic used during the training is useful in busting stress,” she said.
 
 Asked about the implementation of the course in daily life, Dr  , director (PR), S-VYASA, said, “Of the people attending this course or any other programme in our university, over 95% adopt lifestyle changes. They begin practising yoga and pranayama on a daily basis.”
 
 “The rat race to excel has resulted in increased physical and mental stress, which has lead to various health hazards that pose challenges in society. Stress management has become imperative. Most of the national and international institutions/organizations are making use of this technique for enhanced performance and to sustain in the present-day competitive world,” he added.
 
 THE METHODS DECODED 
 
 *As part of IRT, one exercises through contraction of groups of muscles part by part — starting from the toes till the head for about a one minute. 
 
 *QRT is practised in three phases for three minutes. Starting with the observation of normal breath pattern, it moves on to synchronizing breath with abdominal movements and finally, breathing while implementing yoga aphorism.
 
 *DRT, on the other hand, allows one to focus on his/her own body and relax every muscle, joint and organ. The technique has proven effective in relaxing the autonomic nervous system by balancing the heart rate, respiratory rate, and also sets the homeostasis of the body. The final products are a relaxed body, slowed breath and calm mind.
 
