NAVI MUMBAI: The winter season is a treat for   as it is the time when migrant species like the famous flamingos flock to the coastal regions in the city and   and Karnala Bird Sanctuary. Several bird watchers and nature lovers are visiting these spots to check out these feathered species.

 Bird lovers are in for a treat as they can spot an increasing presence of greater and lesser flamingos at the mudflats of Chirner, Panje and Dongri villages of Uran taluka and also other winter birds like painted storks, ibises, herons and cormorants. The flamingos come only to feed on micro-organisms such as algae and plankton found in these mudflats.
 
 Environmentalist D Stalin said that in the next 60 days, over 20,000 flamingos will be seen along the   from Sewri to Vashi and up till Airoli. “The presence of birds is a signal that all in not yet lost. But, the state must heed these signs and do its best to protect the rich biodiversity,” he said.
 
 Paresh Mestri, an avid bird watcher at Uran said that they also get to see other beautiful birds like kingfishers, drongos and herons. “Many bird enthusiasts come here for this reason,” he added.
 
 Stalin told TOI that till about 10 years ago, Uran was considered a birds' and nature lovers’ paradise. “However, now only a few mudflats and wetlands remain, which are still visited by these migrant species. The rest have been filled up and taken over for development of SEZs and other projects. We only hope that the authorities are serious about protecting theses wetland pockets,” he added.
 
 Another bird lover, J Thakur, said that winter season is a very good time to come to these coastal areas. “We urge the government to declare these parts as a protected bird area,” he added.
 
 Nature lovers can also participate in the pan-India bird count being conducted by Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) under its Common Bird Monitoring Programme, organised on January 15. The participants will be allotted 2 sq km grids, plotted using GIS, after they send BNHS their location. They will have to record birds on the data sheet provided. 
 
 
