VIJAYAWADA: Barely a week after former TDP MLA Raavi Venkateswara Rao created a stir by firing in the air inside a club, another TDP legislator - MLC Annam   - has landed in a controversy by assaulting a government official at Haritha resort during a birthday party on Friday night. 

 Police booked a case against Satish Prabhakar after chief minister   took a serious view of the matter and gave a dressing down to him. Annam Satish was partying at the government-owned Haritha resort here with film producer Koratala Sandeep, Repalle MLA Anagani Satya Prasad and 28 others at AP Tourism Department Corporation (APTDC) resort here. While they were dancing as part of the birthday celebrations of Sandeep, Satish called deputy manager of the APTDC resort, Srinivas Rao, and started abusing him for 'poor arrangements.'
 
 In a fit of rage, the MLC, who was in an inebriated condition, slapped Srinivas thrice on his face. The resort staffers, who tried to stop the MLC, were also beaten up. Srinivas, with a swollen eye, walked away from the area and informed his higher officials. Around 10.30 pm, Srinivas along with senior officials reached the Bapatla rural police station to lodge a complaint against Satish and his followers. "Shockingly, Srinivas was detained in the police station throughout the night. The police officials refused to accept our complaint till 6.30 am on Saturday. They allowed Srinivas to leave only after our staff staged a dharna," APTDC divisional manager Gangaraju told STOI. 
 
 When contacted, Bapatla station house officer Ch Suresh said that a case was registered under sections 333 (causing grievous hurt to any public servant while discharging his duty) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC against Satish and his associates. "We are investigating the case. We shall question Satish and record his statement," Suresh said.
 
 The MLC is believed to have threatened mediapersons with dire consequences if the incident was reported. "It was only after hours of protests by the APTDC staff, the police released Srinivas and registered a case," Gangaraju added. Soon after the incident, the CM summoned Venkateswara Rao and Satish to his Undavalli residence. While Rao met Naidu, Satish spoke with him. "The CM told both of them that indiscipline will not be tolerated in the party," a source said.
 
 
