For a filmmaker whose film is releasing in a couple of weeks,   looks remarkably calm and composed. In fact, he is in an elated mood because the trailer of  , which was released recently, is generating a great response and has raised expectations around the film. In a conversation with Chennai Times, the cinematographer-turned-director talks about the film’s relevance to contemporary events, the challenges of a big-budget filmmaker, Vijay Sethupathi’s approach to acting, and the wigs his actors sport in his films. Excerpts:

 
 Actually, we finished the script by last June and the shoot by Christmas 2016. It was only after that the issues that you mention happened. So, whatever connections you find with contemporary issues are purely coincidental. The hero works in the media. And hard news media persons face different issues every day. That way, there are a few problems that this guy faces — a tussle with a corporate, an issue related to women, a political conflict...
 
 
 The film was edited and sent for re-recording by around January 10, so there wasn't room for such an idea. Also, that could work two ways — it could be a plus or a minus. So, we have presented what we wanted to talk about. But yes, there are certain sub-plots that are coincidentally similar. Like the dilemma of whether or not a news organisation can name a woman who has been sexually harassed.
 
 
 Kavan means aiming for the target. Any fiction needs a conflict and here, too, there’s a conflict. How the protagonist, who works in the media, solves it forms the plot. The protagonist of Ko was a press photographer, here he works in a TV channel. So, the film shows what kind of problems those in the electronic media face.
 
 
 Not at all. Actually, I did not want people to think of that film while watching this one. In fact, after seeing the film, people will say that there is no connection between the two films.
 
 
 All commercial films are pulpy films. In my films, the events might be one step removed from realism, but that’s that. For example, in Ko, Jiiva does a wheelie while clicking a photo. That is the level of exaggeration you will find in my films. And the stories and screenplays Suba and I have come up with are collaborative efforts. In this film, we also have Kabilan Vairamuthu on board, because we felt his experiences as a broadcast journalist could come in handy.
 
 
 The protagonist in this film is a media person, who is bold and fights for issues close to his heart. Naturally, he faces threats that get physical. But I cannot show Vijay Sethupathi finding solutions by taking on a hundred men. It was problem similar to what I faced while making Ko. But I didn’t want to repeat Jiiva again (even though he’d done a fantastic job) because it will not be new to people. I like what Vijay Sethupathi has been doing, and so, brought him on board.
 
 
 All my scripts have the dialogues on the right side and a description of the mood of the scene and the character on the left. So, if the description says ‘The hero enters a room with a heavy heart and the darkness of the place helped him hide his emotions’, Suriya and Dhanush would read that, ask questions (if they have doubts) and react in a natural way. Vijay Sethupathi will get this brief and ask if he can do it his own way. He’s particular his actions shouldn’t look like heroism. In the climax scene, he had to speak a lengthy dialogue standing opposite Akashdeep Saigal. But Akashdeep doesn’t know Tamil, so, he absentmindedly turned a bit towards a character standing next to him. Immediately, during the shot, Vijay Sethupathi tapped him on the shoulder and said ‘Hello, listen to me’ like he was telling the character. You get such moments of spontaneity from him. This approach makes a scene casual and more believable. His has an understated approach when it comes to performance; his body language — the length of a smile or the movement of eyes — convey the character’s feelings. I think he still has this style because he doesn’t think of himself as a big star. He hasn’t got the desire to strut on screen with his collar turned up or have the camera in a low angle as he steps out of a car, yet. But the other actors — leave aside Ajith, Vijay and Suriya — desire this and ask for it. Inime dhaan industry avara kedukkanum.
 
 
 There’s no sentiment or anything involved here. In Ayan, the hero is a smuggler, so he uses various looks to cheat the customs officers. In Ko, Jiiva sported one in a song just for fun. In Maattrraan, Suriya was playing conjoined twins and we shot both those roles at the same time. In Anegan, Dhanush played four different characters. Now, this film deals with three phases in the hero’s life — college days, present and another phase. So, I had Vijay Sethupathi in a clean-shaven look for one phase, made him sport a beard for another and for the third, I could only change his hairstyle with a wig because he is acting in three to five films simultaneously. Using a wig is the easiest way to present an actor in a new look. 
 
 
 At the end of the day, any film is a commercial venture, something in which a producer has invested a considerable amount. You cannot expect to do 20-crore business with the films that have recently done well, like Dhuruvangal Pathinaaru and Maanagaram, as their target audience is narrow. If they collect `5 crore, that means they have performed very well. When you do a big-budget film, you need to attract all groups of the audience. That is one of the responsibilities that I have as a big-budget filmmaker.
 
 
 As a director, I should know some business — the value of certain combinations, the overseas rights, satellite rights... I quote the budget for my film based on my understanding of these factors. For all my films, the script has dictated the budget. Ayan was about international smuggling and you cannot make such a subject in under 3 crores. Anegan was made with a budget that was above the market value of both Dhanush and myself. Ko, too, was made similarly. In fact, when we casually met Jiiva’s father, RB Choudary sir, he advised us to make it under `8 crore after hearing our budget (`12 crore) because that was how much business his son’s films did. But my producers understood that the script demanded such a budget. This is where a producer’s support matters. You need a producer who understands the script, and is willing to spend. That is why I’m working with Agoram for the third time. Piracy and stars’ salary, which takes up more than 50 per cent of the film’s budget, are the biggest challenge for big-budget films. We have spent big on this film, but even if you do not like the film, you will agree that the money that was spent on the film was on the screen. By casting a heroine like  , for whom this is her second Tamil film, I saved around `50 lakh. I chose a cameraman who is very talented but relatively new. Similarly, I have gone for a composer (Hip Hop Tamizha) instead of my usual one ( ). This way, I was able to save around `2 crore, which I could spend on the film instead. Thankfully, my producer did not insist on having a top heroine or technician.
 
 
