MUMBAI:  , the 18-year-old son of senior IAS officers   and Manisha Mhaiskar, reportedly jumped to his death from the terrace of 20-storey Dariya Mahal at   at around 7.30am on Tuesday. The Malabar Hill police found some of Manmath's belongings, including his bag, on the terrace. Police have registered an accidental death case. 

  Milind Mhaiskar is vice-president and CEO of Mhada, while Manisha Mhaiskar is principal secretary with the state urban development department. 
 
  Police said the teenager left his house at Blue Heaven Apartment, Marine Lines, at around 7am, saying he was going to meet a friend who is the son of a diamond trader. At around 7.30am, the Malabar Hill police received a call from Dariya Mahal saying a body was lying in the building compound. Police rushed to the spot and took the body to JJ Hospital, Byculla, for a post-mortem. Experts from the forensic medicine department of JJ have prima facie ruled out any foul play. "There were multiple injuries on the body, but they were akin to those a person sustains because of the fall from such a height. We have preserved the viscera for chemical analysis," one of the doctors said. 
 
  The building's terrace is usually locked but was open on Tuesday morning owing to repair work going on there. Police are examining Manmath's bag. "There is no foul play," said a senior IPS officer who did not wish to be named. 
 
 Soon after the body was identified, the police informed the Mhaiskars. "There are CCTV cameras installed in the building but we don't know if they cover all floors and the terrace area," said a police officer. Manmath's body was handed over to the family by 12.30pm, and the cremation took place later in the afternoon at Chandanwadi crematorium. CM Devendra Fadnavis, several bureaucrats, ministers and police officers were present for the funeral. 
 
  Most police officers who are part of the probe were tightlipped about the investigation. An officer attached to Malabar Hill police station said they did not know about Manmath's friend, whom he had gone to meet at Dariya Mahal. Police said they were probing if Manmath fell or jumped to his death. "Everyone in the family is in a state of shock. We have not recorded their statements. We will do that soon. We are probing whether it was a suicide case or an accident," said a senior officer. 
 
  Manmath studied up to Class X at   at Cuffe Parade and was at St. Xavier's College between 2015 and 2017. Last month, he had secured admission at Pune's Symbiosis institute for a five-year law course. 
 
  (Inputs by Sumitra Deb Roy) 
 
 
