The fans of megastar   have been waiting for April 7, 2017 ever since director   announced that he is all set to team up with the much-loved Lalettan yet again. Their latest film in the the Major Mahadevan series, '1971: Beyond Borders' hits screens at a time when Mohanlal is ruling the South film industry with back-to-back super hits in various languages. If you are contemplating whether or not to grab a ticket of the war drama, here are a few reasons for you to checkout the film! 

  
  
 
 
 The film, which is a war drama involving tanks, has a scene in which Mohanlal drove an army tank for real - and this was revealed to us by none other than the megastar himself! "I don't think anyone else has done it so far in Malayalam cinema," he had told us. The movie is set in two timelines - during the 1971 Indo-Pak war and the present, and the tank sequence should be in the first part, we take a guess. 
 
 
 
 The film will have Mohanlal in two roles - as Colonel Mahadevan and his dad Major Sahadevan. The actor, however, will have three entirely different getups in the movie - two of which are for Sahadevan's character. The portions of the Indo-Pak war in 1971 will have the actor in a younger getup. Mohanlal had recently unveiled the look for the elder version, of Sahadevan as a Brigadier. 
 
 
 
 Who doesn't like a thrilling, edge-of-the-seat war film, that too with a superstar donning the role of the protagonist? Often, such films also do their bit to ignite the patriotic fervor in the youth. The previous movies in this Major Ravi franchise, 'Keerthichakra' and 'Kurukshetra' had done just that and so, it's reasonable to expect that '1971: Beyond Borders' will also repeat the magic. 
 
 
 
 Alongside Mohanlal, the film also has top actors from other industries, such as   from Telugu,   from Bollywood, Srushti Dange from Kollywood, Neha Khan from Marathi... and more. Allu Sirish plays the role of Lieutenant Chinmay, Arunoday Singh is cast as Lieutenant colonel Rana Sharif, Priyanka Agrawal as his wife wife and to find out who else plays what in the movie, why don't you check it out! 
 
 
 
 Oppam, Pulimurugan, Munthirivallikal Thalirkkumbol, Manamantha, Janatha Garage... all of these movies, which were released in both various industries, won the hearts of audience in no time in the past few months. If his streak of luck continues, 1971: Beyond Borders can be the next film on this list and if so, would you want to miss it?
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
