MANGALURU: The focus of impending meeting of the RBI 's   (MPC) next week has to be on working closely with the government and the banks to resolve the mounting problem of the non-performing assets (NPAs) in a time-bound manner, as any more delay could prove to be very costly to the Indian economy, the   has said. 

 "There is no point living in a denial mode. Even though it may not be politically easy to allow banks to take haircuts along with the promoters of the troubled projects, the fact of the matter is that such haircut is already being taken by way of huge provisioning in the balance sheets of the banks quarter after quarter," the ASSOCHAM said in a statement. 
 
 It said, with relatively benign  , the credit offtake has remained at a historic low clearly pointing out that at this point of time, the biggest problem facing the economy is the NPAs and the stressed assets which are estimated to be above Rs 700,000 crore. 
 
 "Irrespective of the ownership, whether it is in the private or public sector, the assets which are losing value in the stalled projects, leveraged projects and non-functional firms belong to the nation. By delaying the resolution of the problem, we should not allow this asset to further lose value," ASSOCHAM Secretary General D S Rawat said. 
 
 There is great merit in the comments made by eminent banker K V Kamathm, who was candid enough to state that the hair cuts by the banks and the promoters are inevitable so that the assets, so locked up, can be nursed back to health, Rawat said
 
 Given the fact that a large part of the NPAs are concentrated in a small number of corporates in the steel, construction, power, oil and infrastructure projects, the case to case resolution can be worked by the banks under the high powered oversight committees in a transparent and the way which would enthuse confidence in the system. 
 
 Different set of solutions would be required in different cases. There would be cases where part of the debt would have to be converted into equity; there could somewhere ownership, if necessary, of the projects could be changed. 
 
 "In the next six months, if we are able to resolve the NPA issue, there would be no stopping for the Indian economy; that is for sure. It is time we faced the problem upfront," the chamber said.
 
