BHUBANESWAR: Passengers in Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Andhra Pradesh may face difficulties in getting trains in time for the next 15 days because of the modernization related works undertaken by the Railways at different sections under the   (ECoR) and the   (SECR) zones.

 Railways will cancel a total of nine trains, short terminate three and reschedule over 20 trains between May 3 and 15, ECoR sources said. 
 
 Due to safety related modernization work in connection with commissioning of third line between Durg and Rasmara stations of the SECR, four express trains will be cancelled between May 9 and May 15.  , which is a major and crowded train connecting coastal Odisha with western part of the state, will remain cancelled for five days between May 10 and May 15.
 
 According to ECoR sources, Puri-Durg Express will remain cancelled from May 10 to May 14, while Durg-Puri will be cancelled between May 11 and 15.
 
 Similarly, ECoR has started modernization work of Dhanmandal-Byree section its Khurda Road division. So the zone will cancel three passenger trains and reschedule eight trains on May 7.
 
 It has also started construction of limited height subways (LHS) between Rayagada-Vizianagaram and Palasa-Visakhapatnam route as a result it has canceled two trains and partially cancelled three trains. Besides, it has rescheduled over 18 trains between May 3 and 15. 
  
 Construction of LHS in Balangir-Titlagarh route, in Kantabanji-Khariar and Khariar-Mahasamund routes of   section and in Vizianagaram-Palasa route will block traffic for several hours in the respective routes. Doubling between Titlagarh and Kantabanji and other safety related works between Dhanmandal and Byree will delay the trains, said a senior officer of the railways. 
  
 Even on Wednesday, several trains were running late due to the modernization work. “Palasa- Paradip passenger was running one hour 20 minutes late on Wednesday. I failed to attend a meeting at Bhubaneswar,” said Prakash Behera of Ganjam. 
  
 “We understand that there will be temporary inconvenience to passengers. However, all this is for the larger interest of safety of trains and passengers. 
 
 Modernisation work is greatly required at some stations for ensuring better safety. All this is for a larger cause,” said ECoR chief public relations officer JP Mishra.
 
