PUNE: A research paper has claimed to have detected for the first time two super massive   orbiting each other in a galaxy about   light years away from Earth. 

 Karishma Bansal, an alumnus of Indian Institute of Science Education and Research Pune, is the first author of the paper__'Constraining the Orbit of the Supermassive Black Hole Binary 0402+379’, published in The Astrophysical Journal, recently. She is a graduate student at the University of   (UNM), at present. 
 
 The paper talks about a super massive binary black hole system with two distinct objects orbiting each other using very long baseline array system. Bansal, UNM professor   and colleagues at Stanford, the US Naval Observatory and Gemini Observatory, have been studying the interaction between these black holes for 12 years, a press statement from the University of New Mexico said.
 
 Speaking to TOI from New Mexico via social media, Bansal said she was happy her research work had been published. “This is a new discovery where we are able to study the orbital motion of two super massive black holes in a binary system. We believe most decent sized galaxies harbour a super massive black hole in their centre just like our Milky Way. When two such galaxies collide, they form a new galaxy with a binary super massive black hole at their centre,” she said.
 
 The research will facilitate better knowledge about galaxies. “We can understand galaxy evolution and how super massive black holes grow. These sources are important for the gravitational wave study. We expect that when they merge, they emit strong G-wave signals. Andromeda and Milky Way are on a collision course so we are seeing our future billions of years away, today,” she added.
 
 Bansal credited IISER, Pune for building her basics in the research. “I learned science from a different perspective, here. It wasn't about solving numericals. It was about finding out how nature works. The excellent course work helped me during my research. IISER allowed me to do a project which was useful. My advisor was supportive,” she added.
 
 
