PUNE: A severe crunch of injectable   (IPV) at government-run hospitals has left doctors here with no option but to rely on bivalent oral polio vaccine, making  .

 India introduced single dose of the IPV in the national immunization schedule while switching over from trivalent oral polio vaccine to bivalent in April last year. As per this regime, two doses of the IPV are recommended for the newborns in the first year of their lives. 
 
 However due to severe shortage, doctors at   as well as those from the private sector are relying only on bivalent oral polio vaccine that gives protection against Type I and Type III polio viruses. “The IPV lends protection against Type II polio virus. Since it is in short supply, a large number of babies born after April 25, 2016 who couldn’t get the injectable dose are vulnerable to the polio,” experts said.
 
 “Though the risk of wild polio due to Type II virus is remote (last case was reported in 1999), there remains a possibility of the virus coming into the sewage, causing wild polio or vaccine-induced paralysis among kids. Hence, the babies, who couldn’t get the injectable dose due to the shortage, remain vulnerable to the type II polio virus. This calls for urgency in resolving this shortage,” senior paediatrician Sharad Agarkhedkar said.
 
 He was involved in WHO’s Expanded Programme of Immunuzation (EPI) study. Based on this study, the recommendation for the switch to bOPV and introduction of injectable polio vaccine in the immunisation schedule has been made.
 
 Agarkhedkar said, “The idea behind switch from tOPV to bOPV was to decrease the number of vaccine-derived polio cases due to live attenuated Type II virus, which is there in the trivalent oral polio vaccine. However, once the tOPV is withdrawn, it needed to be supported by at least two doses of the IPV so that every baby gets full protection against all the three polio viruses. But the prevailing shortage of IPV has defeated the very idea behind it.”
 
 Sharing his view, paediatrician Pramod Jog, national president of   (IAP), said, “The shortage is responsible for partly immunized babies who were born after April 25 last year. The IPV is good for individual protection. When a child gets all the three doses of the IPV within the first year of his/her life and the fourth booster shot at 14 weeks along with recommended oral doses, he/she gets 99% protection against all the three polioviruses. Besides, the IPV is equally good for children who have weak immunity.” 
 
 When contacted, Anjali Sabne, acting health chief of the   (PMC), said, “The city’s annual birth cohort is around 50,000 babies per year. That means, around 4,200 babies are born every month within the municipal limits of Pune. However, the supply of the IPV has been less against the need.”
 
 Medical officer Suryakant Deokar, in-charge of the immunization programme at PMC, said, “Since April 20 last year, we have received 334 vials of 2.5ml each and 168 vials of 5ml each of the IPV from the state government. We have to distribute this to PMC’s 16 maternity homes and 44 dispensaries equipped with vaccination centres. Also, we have to give some vials to state-run Sassoon hospital as it is located within PMC limits. Considering the demand, the supply has always been irregular and in short supply.”
 
 Normally, the IPV is available as 0.5ml vial and is to be given by intra-muscular route. But the global short supply of the vaccine has prompted the Union government to go intradermal. When using intradermal route, five infants can be vaccinated using a 0.5ml vial, while the complete vial is used in vaccination of a single infant through intramascular route.
 
 A state health ministry official told TOI, “There is a global shortage of the IPV. The situation is likely to resolve in some days.” 
 
