COIMBATORE: The city police department inaugurated the first   in the state on   here on Wednesday. It features state-of-the art facilities such as simulators, bikes, cycles, mini amphitheatre, LED screens and traffic signals to train and educate children about traffic rules.

 Pointing out that 1,377 people had died in road accidents last year in Coimbatore, city police commissioner A Amalraj said, “Our aim is to reduce the accidents by 50% and we want children to play a vital role in this. Every day, 300 children from various schools will be trained here.” It is the 11th such park in the country.
 
 On Wednesday, children were seen excitedly picking up the cycles placed at the park and riding through the roads laid in the park. It provides a street experience with street lights, bus stops, traffic signals, check posts, watch towers and other road sign boards. The children stopped at the signals when it turned red and waited eagerly for it to turn green. A traffic cop, meanwhile, guided the children and told them about the rules.
 
 “I enjoyed the experience. We are often told not to run on roads, but we were able to run here freely,” said Karthik, a student.
 
 The park also features a screen to guide people on various traffic rules. People can relax at the mini amphitheatre, while having sessions on traffic rules. 
 
 Other attractions include 3D snake and ladder paintings and artwork on its walls. Artist J   said it took him months to complete all the paintings. “The concept of 3D painting was new for us and we are glad it worked,” he said.
 
 Children have an entire play area where they have high rope climbing, watch towers with binoculars to watch over the roads and other games. Those who want to learn riding a two-wheeler will be given training on two-wheeler simulator set up by   private limited. It has also provided a few two-wheelers and small bikes that could be used for practice. Cycles are also available for children for practicing.
 
 “This is one of the best ways to inculcate traffic discipline. Children should learn and teach their parents also,” said  , senior vice-president (sales and marketing), Honda Motorcycle and Scooter private limited.
 
