MUMBAI/BENGALURU: Web retailer   said on Monday it has decided to terminate all strategic discussions for a sale and will instead stay independent, bringing to an end months of deal talks with its bigger rival  . Snapdeal's largest investor  , which had been orchestrating the sale in a cut-price deal, said it respects the decision made by its investee company and looks forward to the results of the 'Snapdeal 2.0' strategy.

 TOI reported in its July 28 edition that the most-talked about merger in the domestic internet space was looking unlikely with little possibility of full shareholder consent coming through.
 
 The announcement comes on the back of continued shareholder disagreement at Snapdeal's dysfunctional board with regard to its sale, minority investors objecting to special payouts promised to early venture investors like  , along with the deal's terms and conditions laid out by Flipkart which were found to be unacceptable by the founders of the struggling etailer.
 
 A Snapdeal spokesperson said, "We have a new and compelling direction - Snapdeal 2.0 -that uniquely furthers our vision, and have made significant progress towards the ability to execute this by achieving a gross profit this month." SoftBank said in a prepared statement, "Supporting entrepreneurs and their vision and aspirations is at the heart of Masayoshi Son's and SoftBank's investment philosophy. As such, we respect the decision to pursue an independent strategy. We look forward to the results of the Snapdeal 2.0 strategy, and to remaining invested in the vibrant Indian e-commerce space."
 
 Earlier this year, preliminary discussions began between the largest investors of Snapdeal and Flipkart (Tiger Global) to merge the two online retailers, as we first reported on March 29. The contours of the deal would see SoftBank pump $1.5 billion (in a mix of primary and secondary capital) into the merged entity.
 
 But over the past month or so, the fate of the merger -which would have been the most definitive consolidation move in the cash-guzzling Indian e-commerce market - started to look shaky with a 100% shareholder approval unlikely. 
 
 By this time, Flipkart's exclusivity period was over and Snapdeal was free to entertain other suitors. Snapdeal's board rejected an initial $650700 million offer made by Flipkart, which was later revised to $900 million. Snapdeal also held talks with Infibeam for a potential merger, like we reported in our July 14 edition.
 
