NEW DELHI: Long time Gandhi family loyalist Makhan Lal Fotedar, who fell out with the family in his final years when he questioned Rahul Gandhi’s leadership and suggested that his sister Priyanka was better suited to lead the  , died in Gurugram on Thursday. He was 85.

 Fotedar, sources close to him said, was ailing for the past few months. He breathed his last at 1.30 pm at Medanta Hospital in Gurugram. Medical superintendent Dr A K Dubey told TOI that he was admitted on June 20 with complaints of profound weakness, drowsiness and cough.
 
 “Multiple investigations confirmed he had diabetes, hypertension, COPD, respiratory infection. He had to be put on life support later,” Dr Dubey said. At the time of death, Fotedar’s family members were by his side.
 
 Congress chief   said in a message, “In his long and active political career spanning over five decades, he tirelessly fought for the rights of people and served them with utmost integrity.” The party handle tweeted, “Our condolences on the passing of M L Fotedar Ji. Our thoughts go out to his family at this time.”
 
 Fotedar, barring the past few years, was the quintessential loyalist, having been integral to the formation of Congress (T) in revolt against then PM Narasimha Rao on behalf of Sonia in 1995. The infighting hurt Rao in the 1996 Lok Sabha elections and eventually paved the way for Sonia to take charge as party president.
 
 In the years leading up to Sonia’s leadership of the Congress, Fotedar was seen to enjoy clout in the party due his proximity to 10, Janpath and was seen to have provided inputs on her public image building which was intended to be reminiscent of  .
 
 He did not last long in the Rao government which took office in 1991 when he was health minister for a brief while. Expectations that Rao would take his cues from loyalists did not come to pass and Fotedar was dropped from the cabinet.
 
 Later, when Sonia took charge of Congress, Fotedar was back in the limelight, but did not gain prominence when the party led a government at the Centre from 2004 to 2014. A person of scrupulous personal habits, he faded into obscurity with his best days going back to when Indira Gandhi was in office.
 
 He remained fiercely loyal to Indira Gandhi and his book ‘The Chinar Leaves: A Political Memoir’ is replete with instances of his association with her. He even suggested that she had a premonition of her assassination in 1984.
 
