NEW DELHI:   did not let an uncertain future affect his focus as he came up with a near-perfect final round to claim the silver medal in   at the   in the Capital on Friday.

 This was India's second medal in the competition after  's bronze in women's 10m air rifle on the opening day .
 
 After a horrendous start to the qualification, where he missed as many as six birds in the first round, Mittal made amends quickly enough to make it to the six-man final along with another Indian, Sangram Dahiya.
 
 Mittal, 25, was in a completely different zone when the battle for the podium began. Dahiya, who had finished ahead of Mittal in the qualifiers, faded away and was the first to be eliminated.
 
 Mittal did not miss a single bird till his 24th shot in the 80shot final, which had the likes of Rio Olympic bronze medallist Steven Scott of England in the field. And it helped when he missed both the birds dur ing the fourth of the 10-shot series but still stayed in contention for a medal.
 
 He was engaged in a fierce battle for the gold with eventual winner James Willett of Australia almost till the end, but missed a bird each in three straight attempts in the penultimate series of 10-shots to settle for the silver. He finished with 74 points, just one behind the Australian. James Dedmen of England won the bronze with 56.
 
 Double trap is likely to be replaced as an Olympics event with a mixed gender trap team event in the 2024 Tokyo Olympics. “I am feeling bad that it won't be there in the Olympics. But the good thing is that there's Commonwealth Games and Asian Games next year, and the World Championships this year. Let's see what happens.“
 
 Earlier, Jitu Rai prepared for his Tuesday's event in style by claiming the top spot in the mixed team 10m air pistol gold with Heena Sidhu. They beat the Japanese pair of Yukari Konisha and Tomoyuki Matsuda in the final 5-3. The gold won't be counted in India's tally since mixed team events are being used as test events in this World Cup.
 
 In women's 50m rifle 3 positions, Tejaswini Sawant made to the final but finished seventh in the eight-player contest.
 
 
