MUMBAI: CBI filed a chargesheet against activist  , her husband   and their company for alleged violation of foreign funding rules on Friday. Setalvad, who spearheaded a campaign seeking justice for Gujarat's riot victims, described the agency's action as "vindictiveness". 

 Setalvad and Anand's statements that $290,000 received by their publishing firm,   (SCPPL), from   were "consultation fees" and not a grant received in violation of the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) are being refuted by CBI's Economic Offences Wing (EOW). CBI has cited IT returns of the foundation that show it had received tax benefits in the US by listing the sum as a "grant".
 
  The agency said according to information submitted to the foreign donor, it was mentioned that SCPPL would lobby with government to deepen and broaden the concept of minorities. CBI said lobbying with political parties was not allowed under the act. It also said that since the organisation had been publishing a monthly periodical and two of its directors were writing columns and articles, as per section 3 of the act they were barred from receiving foreign contributions. It said the organisation did not maintain exclusive books on foreign contributions, which again was an offence under FCRA. 
 
  Reacting to the charges, Teesta Setalvad said, "The accusations are false and it is just vindictiveness. We have not violated provisions of FCRA. Even if it is an offence, which we are disputing, it is at most compoundable for which one can be fined. Why should we be criminally prosecuted? This is violation of basic freedom. The authorities can pursue it in a civil manner and not make it a criminal dispute. This is only done with an intention to intimidate us. The amount is for consultation fees for which TDS was also deducted." 
 
 On Friday, copies of the 23,000-page document were handed over to Setalvad and Anand, who were present before additional chief metropolitan magistrate Laxmikant A Bidwai. 
 
  The chargesheet has also alleged that US-based Sushma Raman, the then programme officer of the foundation, was aware that the couple's organisation was not eligible to receive the grant under FCRA and that she connived with Anand to pass it off as consultancy charges. 
 
  The court granted Setalvad and Anand bail and said they were not to leave the country. It said they would have to intimate the court in case they were leaving the city and would have to be present during the trial. The matter will now be heard on May 12. 
 
  CBI had registered the case on July 8, 2015, following a complaint from Gujarat. The chargesheet was filed after the Union home ministry sanctioned it. 
 
 
