KOLHAPUR: A delegation of various organisations from the city on Friday submitted a petition to district administration, demanding immediate transfer of   land to Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) for construction of Rajarshi  .

 The state government in the interim budget of 2014-15 had sanctioned Rs 3.5 crore to begin primary work of the memorial on 27 acre land of the mill. But the land is still under textile corporation, and despite repeated negotiations between the KMC authorities, state government and textile corporation, the land is yet to be transferred.
 
 The corporation has asked the KMC to pay over Rs 60 crore for the transfer of the land. The KMC has requested the government to handle the issue at the higher level.
 
 Jaykumar Shinde, convenor of Shahu Phule Ambedkar Bahujan Vikas Manch, said, “The government has promised to construct the memorial of   whose contributions to just and equal society was unprecedented. The Shahu Mill is closed since many years and those following Shahu Maharaj's ideals had demanded that a memorial of Shahu Maharaj on the unutilised land.”
 
 He added, “The public works department (PWD) has given technical sanctions to construct the memorial. Other departments also have no objections to the plan submitted to the government and now the ball is in the government’s court. We expect the construction of the memorial should start as early as possible.”
 
 Shahu Maharaj had laid the foundation of industrial culture in the city by establishing the mill in 1906. Originally a private limited mill, it was later transferred to Textile Corporation in 1976. The mill was officially closed on August 31, 2003 and all efforts to revive the mill failed.
 
 The KMC has even appointed conservation engineer to conserve heritage structures present on the mill premises. “Now the government has laid the foundation stone for   and Babasaheb Ambedkar memorials in Mumbai. Now, we expect the government to lay the foundation stone for Shahu memorial at the earliest,” said Shinde.
 
 
