Pune: The road leading from Pune to the Konkan coast passes through Tamhini ghats. The Centre has recently sanctioned a wider thoroughfare at this scenic route to make it a national highway. 

 However, the Tamhini region supports a wildlife sanctuary and conservationists are opposed to the idea of a wider road as it may damage the forest area on which Pune’s fresh water supply depends.
 
 The National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) recently received clearance from the central government to carry out road widening along the route from Murud in Raigad to Indore in Madhya Pradesh. 
 
 The road will be converted into a national highway, and ease the movement of travellers along this route. Work on the stretch that passes through Tamhini in the Western Ghats, and Pune, is expected to begin in six months.
 
 Assistant conservator of forests (ACF) Mahesh Bhavsar said he was aware of the proposal to widen the road. However, he said the forest department has not yet received any communication seeking permission for the work. 
 
 “The NHAI will require permission under the Forest Conservation Act, as not only is Tamhini a forest area, but there is also a wildlife sanctuary,” he said.
 
 In absence of any application to the forest department, there is no clarity as to what extent the road-widening will take place in the section passing through Tamhini. “At the same time, any widening here will lead to some loss of trees as the current road is completely surrounded by green cover. If this section is widened as much as the other stretches, it could also require levelling some part of the ghats. We will consider all these aspects as and when we receive any communication from NHAI,” Bhavsar said.
 
 The change to the landscape will be certain, but it is the process of the road widening that could cause most damage, said conservationist Vijay Velankar from city-based organisation Nisarg Sevak. 
 
 “The road already exists, and there is movement of vehicles on it. So a road wider by 10 to 12 feet will not be as harmful as the process required for its widening. This will entail movement of heavy equipment like excavators, and movement of raw material, which could damage the eco-system of Tamhini,” he said.
 
 Velankar said Tamhini is an eco-sensitive zone, and any changes can affect it. An adverse effect will also be felt in the city, since the zone houses the catchment area for Pune’s fresh water. “The city’s water supply depends on this region. We will first discuss the details of the widening project before planning further action,” he added.
 
 Conservation organisations have been instrumental in securing the National Green Tribunal (NGT) order to stop illegal development on private properties within the eco-sensitive zone, which extends to 10 km in the periphery of Tamhini sanctuary.
 
 
