Mumbai: Heavy showers over the weekend have seen   resurface on several city roads. There are allegations that the BMC has got down to doing patchwork repairs of the   with   blocks, instead of going in for a scientific solution to the perennial problem.

 King’s Circle-based activist Nikhil Desai said he was shocked to find a mastic road at Sion Junction being filled with paver blocks. This, despite the BMC decision to stop the use of paver blocks.
 
 “The Sion Hospital junction was repaired only last year. One rain and a pothole has already surfaced on it. The pothole was filled with paver blocks. This is completely unacceptable,” said Desai who also found potholes on Dadar TT roads.
 
 “Since the past three years, potholes have been surfacing on the same roads. When one complains, the buck is passed from the central agency to local level ward officials,” he said. 
 
 At LBS Road in Bhandup, too, a pothole was being filled with paver blocks on a stretch laid with paver blocks. However, officials said this year the roads are in a much better shape than last year. Attempts made by TOI to get the number of pothole complaints this year proved to be futile, though. 
 
 Vinod Chitore, the BMC’s chief engineer roads, said if paver blocks are being used to surface mastic roads, then “it is not correct. In fact, we have already distributed the imported pothole mix to some of the wards. There is a set standard operating procedure which the wards need to follow while using the mix which can be used even during a wet spell,” said Chitore.
 
 Meanwhile, traffic snarls paralyzed the city on Monday. Among the worst-hit stretches was Western Express Highway. A mini tempo toppled over on Thakur bridge at Kandivli on WEH, causing jams as early as 7.30am. Andheri subway was closed for traffic due to waterlogging. “It took 35 minutes to reach Vile Parle East from Dadar via Tulsi Pipe Road and WEH,” tweeted a motorist. Congestion was also reported at Milan subway, Bandra-Worli Sealink, Link Road at Malad, King's Circle flyover, Dadar TT circle, Saki Vihar Road, NSCI to Haji Ali, Dr BA Road from Parel TT to Sion, JVLR and Seepz. CST to Dadar was badly jammed in the late evening.
 
 "It took me 37 minutes to drive from Tardeo to Haji Ali junction,” tweeted a motorist. 
 
 Commuters also found it difficult to get cabs in the evening. While Uber had surge pricing, commuters said they were unable to book Ola Cabs for over an hour. A source in Ola said that the problem could be due to unavailability of cabs during the heavy downpour. 
 
 (Inputs by Nitasha Natu & Somit Sen)
 
 
