Ghaziabad: Policemen working with   have been told it is not their job to check commuters’ vehicles and documents unless specifically told to do so by the traffic police authorities. This notification, apparently meant to remind the UP 100 staff of their job portfolio across the state, was issued in an update by the UP 100 headquarters in Lucknow in its official Twitter handle on Thursday.

 The Twitter update also mentioned that in the event of any ‘misconduct’ in this respect on the part of the UP 100 staff, people can file a formal complaint against the police constable concerned who crosses the Rubicon. The contention of the police brass is that the UP 100 must focus on the various emergency situations for which it was created.
 
 Anil Pandey, SP Control Room, Ghaziabad, said, “This notification has been issued from the UP 100 headquarters in Lucknow after some complaints were received from people who were questioned by UP 100 constables. Their interception has also clashed with the Ghaziabad traffic police’s checking and they should not do it unless they are specifically authorised to do so.”
 
 The move was made after recurring instances of overlapping of work between the traffic police and the UP 100. An officer working with UP 100 said that PRVs (Police Response Vehicles) have been chosen as first response vehicles to calls from residents and thus do not hold any responsibility to indulge in checking of documents and issuing of challans. Their primary motive is to be the first respondents in an emergency. “If they start issuing challans, who will manage the traffic?” he asked.
 
 When asked, Rakesh Kumar, SP Traffic of Ghaziabad, said, “We have used the services of UP 100 police force in times of crisis like elections when the traffic police staff strength proved inadequate for the task, but that happened after special orders were issued. They cannot practise this checking arbitrarily of their own volition.”
 
 A senior police officer, requesting anonymity, told TOI, “The move was formalised for the entire state of UP after the UP 100 officers were seen to be engaging in stopping commuters and acting as traffic policemen, instead of focusing on their own job of being alert for a potential crisis situation.”
 
 
