KOLKATA: Some things in life are timeless:  , a   and old   to take you back in time. Around 2,000-odd Presidency alumni-batchmates since 40s-walked a 1.5km, singing and joking, reliving their campus days. 

 They started off from in front Vivekananda's house on Bidhan Sarani to their alma mater, Presidency University, as part of an aptly christened, Heritage Walk, on Sunday, organised by Presidency Alumni Association. 
 
 Vintage cars and phaetons had been kept ready, to add to the sepia colour and also as a stand-by, lest a senior felt the need to rest, but most grey-haired youths preferred to walk and sing; they seemed to have forgotten all the aches and pains for the day. 
 
 Poet Shankha Ghosh, barristers Jayanta Mitra and Anindya Mitra-present and former advocates-general of the state-educationist and historian Bharati Ray, walked hand-in-hand, leading the march and greeting one and all. "I am from the '51 batch, but it feels like yesterday," said the soft-spoken Ghosh. "You bet. This has taken away at least 50 years from me," said Jayanta Mitra of the '58 batch and also president of the alumni association. "I can see professor Bhabatosh Dutta teaching us," he said. Former CEO of Prasar Bharati Jawhar Sircar of the '72 batch sprinted from one end to the other to keep order, almost like a current student. "I am from those turbulent Naxal times when teaching-learning was severely affected, but nothing could dominate the spirit of learning..." Sircar was emphatic.
 
 Some classmates like 1955 history passouts Jyotirmoy Pal Chowdhury, Subrataa Sen and Tapati Dasgupta sat in a vintage car. "We still call it the college... maybe with time, we will learn to call it a university. We had the legendary Susovan Sircar and Prof Mahmud as our teachers," said Subrataa. For Amita Chatterjee of the '72 batch, who also became the first V-C at Presidency University, both the college and university avatar are just as important. "The dividing lines have blurred," she laughed.
 
 Seated in a pheaton were two "quintessential Presidencians" though they hnever studied there: Dilipda and Promodda. Generations of students swear by their services to the administrative office and canteen. "I joined in 1960. Since then, there's been no break even for a day, though I am retired now," said Dilip da. 
 
 The Walk ended at the campus with the alumni converging on the grounds where VC Anuradha Lohia hosted a lavish lunch. It was finally time to go home, only to come back soon for other events lined up for the bi-centenary celebrations.
 
 
