Meerut: A day after two teenaged girls were spotted pulling a cart carrying their visually impaired father, the Shamli administration on Saturday provided them with a mule and financial assistance to complete their journey home at Niwada village in Baghpat district.   The two girls, Meena,15 and Moti, 16, along with their 50-year-old father Salmu Singh and 10-year-old brother had ventured out on a mule cart to trace Singh’s third daughter who had gone missing during Kanwar yatra.    A few weeks ago, someone informed the family that the missing girl was seen in Haridwar and was with a sadhu who frequented their village. When Singh expressed his desire to go to Haridwar, his two daughters took up the responsibility of fulfilling his wish despite the fact they did not have money to pay for public transport. They undertook the journey on their own mule cart.    However, as the luck would have it, someone stole their mule in Haridwar and the two girls pulled the cart, taking turns to cover 110 km to reach their village.    Singh’s daughters are the main breadwinners in the family and with the help of their mule cart they worked as daily wagers to make ends meet.    According to Singh, “I have three daughters and a son. A sadhu had taken one of my daughters to Haridwar during Kanwar yatra and she never returned, after which I along with my remaining two daughters reached Haridwar and found the sadhu also but he again ditched us. But during that time, my mule was stolen.    “We were left with no option but to walk back. All the money that we had during the journey was exhausted in arranging for daily meals as we would cook ourselves during breaks in the journey. It took us seven days to reach Shamli from Haridwar. Another 40 km is due (to reach their village in Baghpat),” said Meena.    According to DM, Shamli, Inder Vikram Singh, “Soon after getting the information about this incident, we traced the family which we found just about 15 km ahead of Shamli and on humanitarian grounds bought a mule for them and also gave them some medicines and Rs 5,000 in cash.”