GURGAON: The narrowness of Badshapur drain, Gurgaon’s main runoff channel for stormwater, was identified as the primary reason behind the monster traffic jam last July 28 and 29, now infamous as  . But as we head into another monsoon,   remains just as narrow, and the potential for another round of similar chaos just as likely.

 Gurujam was caused by widespread   that started with Badshapur drain breaching its embankments after a spell of heavy rain. It first flooded  , and water from radial drains flowed back into sectors, inundating roads and leaving thousands of people stranded on roads for hours. Gurgaon remained in a state of complete gridlock for 30 hours.
 
 After that,  , then the city’s deputy commissioner, had issued a public apology to residents and promised never to allow such a situation again. He had also promised a roadmap for infrastructure upgrade. But Satyaprakash is now in Chandigarh, posted as director of town and county planning, and the status of the roadmap isn’t known.
 
 Going by Badshapur drain’s evidence, it doesn’t seem to have made much progress. The decision to widen the drain was taken after   and Satyaprakash conducted an aerial survey of the city on August 2 last year. Yet, at hand is a situation where Huda needs at least 60 days to complete widening the identified stretch of the drain in Khandsa. That would take us well into July, assuming the work starts immediately. Monsoon arrives in NCR on June 30. 
 
 Officials admitted they might again have to look at temporary arrangements to avoid waterlogging at Hero Honda Chowk and nearby areas this monsoon. The widening is held up because Huda has not been able to get possession of land in Khandsa it needs.
 
 To get 35 owners to part with land, Huda doubled the compensation amount from Rs 3.45 crore to Rs 8 crore in the first week of April. On April 17, it allotted alternative plots to the 35 owners of equal size. But approval for the enhanced compensation is pending with Huda’s head office. “The chief administrator of Huda (Vikas Gupta) on Wednesday sought some clarification regarding assessment of structures for paying compensation. We will provide the details by Thursday,” said Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav.
 
 After Gupta’s approval, the file will go the CM for a final nod. This process could take 7-10 days, officials said. Once Huda formally takes over the land, its original owners will get a month to vacate the plots. Huda needs another month to complete the drain widening work. So, it will take at least 60 days from the date of paying compensation, approval for which is pending, for widening of the drain.
 
 “In case of a delay, we can make a temporary arrangement to dig up the drain in 10 days to ensure flow of excess water,” said a Huda official.
 
