NAGPUR: To narrow the communication gap between the patients and their relatives, the   has introduced cell phone and mailbox facility for the inmates. The hospital, which did not even have a landline before this, has become the first one in the state to introduce the concept. 

 Medical superintendent (administration) Dr   said, “There are three psychiatric counsellors posted at the hospital who have been allotted these cell phones issued by the state. Whenever the patients feel a need to communicate with someone, they can approach the counsellors. The patients are allowed to communicate only in the presence of counsellors.”
 
 Dr  , medical superintendent of the hospital said, “Indoor patients at any normal hospital stay with their relatives. But here at the mental hospital, that’s not possible. At the same time, the treatment is of longer span and eventually the stay is also a little longer.”
 
 Last year, Maharashtra State Human Rights Commission (MSHRC) had pointed out that the hospital inmates need to have a communication medium. “The implementation took a while. The cell phone facility was introduced about three months ago,” Navghare added.
 
 The MSHRC had observed that a patient’s consistent communication with their relatives is as important as their right to have food, clothing and hygienic environment inside the hospital. It could be either through letter or through the phone.
 
 Apart from the city, the state currently has regional mental hospitals at Pune, Thane and  . “All the three hospitals already had a landline facility. As per my information, we are the first in state to provide cell phones inside the hospital,” Navghare said.
 
 Currently, it’s only a one way thing, as only the patients, who wish to talk, can call their relatives. Navghare said, “That’s because, we don’t want to make the counsellors to get over occupied with it. In coming days, we will be fixing proper timing for this, which could be between 10am and 2pm.”
 
 In older days, in absence of landlines, the hospital authorities used to use their personal phone if patients had to call their relatives. “The concerned relatives used to call us frequently in the middle of our work. The cell phones have solved lot of problems,” he added.
 
 There are also inmates who would wish to write to their families. “Keeping that in mind, we created a mailbox six months ago,” he said.
 
