NEW DELHI: At a review   on different schemes of housing and urban affairs ministry in   on Saturday, a Haryana government official pushing for opening up more areas in the   for construction activities came up with startling logic. If Rashtrapati Bhawan could come up on the  , how can development be stopped in other hill areas, he is learnt to have told the meeting. 

 Sources confirmed that Rajesh Khullar, principal secretary to chief minister Manohar Lal, made this statement when Union minister Rao Inderjit Singh was holding the review meeting where the Aravali issue prominently figured. 
 
 “We were stumped to hear such an argument considering the fact that the Presidential Estate came up during the British Rule. The logic simply showed how officials in Haryana are hell-bent to ensure construction is allowed in Aravali. It’s strange that they are pushing this demand even when they have enough undeveloped land in the NCR,” said a Central government official, who did not wish to be identified.
 
 Khullar did not respond to repeated calls, SMSes and What’s App messages as TOI tried to contact him. 
 
 This is not the first time when Haryana officials offered such an argument. Earlier, they had claimed that Aravali is confined to Gurgaon district only despite the fact that official records have recognised that the hills in Faridabad, Rewari and Narnaul are part this range, one of the oldest in the country.
 
 Earlier the Bhupinder Singh Hooda government had unsuccessfully tried to allow more construction in Aravali. As per the Regional Plan 2021, construction and that too only for “recreational activities” is allowed only up to 0.5% since Aravali is treated as Natural Conservation Zone.
 
 Though after taking charge of the state, Manohar Lal had vowed to protect and conserve Aravali, the officials revived the proposal to allow more construction in the environmentally sensitive zone. This has created a face-off like situation between the Centre and Haryana government.
 
