MUMBAI: A prior commitment meant that all   could watch of the epic   between   and  , which saw the Swiss legend clinch his  , on Sunday was “the last two three games, sitting in an airport lounge.“

 Neverthless, the memorable five-set battle, which reminded many fans of the tremendous rivalry the duo enjoyed when they ruled the tennis world, struck a chord in the retired batting maestro's heart and it wasn't just for the quality of tennis on show.
 
 Federer is 35, and Nadal 30.Having suffered injuries and loss of form in recent years, both have found it difficult to replicate the success they enjoyed in their `golden years.' Few would've imagined them contesting another Grand Slam final, let alone win one.This is exactly the point that Tendulkar could relate to.Watching them slug it out on the big stage, the cricket legend's mind went into `rewind mode' as he revisited the dark periods of 2005-06 -easily the unhappiest phase in his 24year international career. It was a point when he too, was written off by critics, just as Nadal and Federer were, not too long ago.
 
 Having suffered a tennis elbow injury in 2004 which he thought would end his career, Tendulkar, after being out of the game for months, took some time to get back to his best. In 2006, he was again cursed by injury and this time it was the shoulder, even as runs dried up.
 
 Many believed that perhaps it was time for the Mumbaikar to hang his boots. The `Master Blaster' finally regained his touch during India's tour to England in 2007.Enjoying a fruitful `second wind' in his career, Tendulkar went on to fulfil his dream of finally lifting the ODI World Cup in 2011.
 
 “I had a lot of injuries and there were some tough times.In 2005-2006 (in) one of the press conferences I was asked a question `so when are you going to retire?' And the best years came after that, the biggest thing in my life happened after that, the 2011 World Cup,“ Tendulkar recalled after launching the `Sachin by Spartan' range of sporting equipment and sportswear here on Monday .
 
 “And I could actually understand what both those athletes (Federer and Nadal) were feeling and Federer actually said in his post-match speech that both of them never thought they will be standing in the middle of the court, but it was all about enjoying the sport,“ he added.
 
 Speaking like a true tennis aficionado, the 43-year-old then paid rich tributes to the two titans. “They both had done whatever they had to and we have enjoyed their tennis. This is just an extension of what they have achieved in the past, the remarkable moments they have given is something that is going to stay with us forever. I have always been a huge fan of Federer. Tennis was exciting in fact. I got excited well before the final.
 
 “The previous day , I tweeted and asked any guesses for whom I will cheer, so I got a lot of responses, obviously (I am) a huge fan of Federer,“ he said.
 
 Tendulkar is a regular visitor to London and at times catches the action at Wimbledon, a place which Federer owns, having clinched seven titles there. Tendulkar has witnessed the former World No.1's wizardry first-hand and even met up with him during the 2011 Championships. Apart from excelling in their chosen fields, both have been humble enough to keep learning.
 
 With advancing age, both also were open to make alterations to their equipment. While Tendulkar shaved off a few inches off his blade to make it slightly lighter to take on quick bowlers on bouncy pitches and improve bat speed, Federer started using a wider racquet head since 2014.
 
 “Unfortunately , I had some prior commitments yesterday , so as and when I got the time, I was watching (the final) but I was one of the guys who didn't want the match to get over, because I was sitting in the airport lounge and watching it. I managed to watch the last two three gamews and the quality of tennis was just incredible. I enjoyed it even more as I could relate to both Federer and Nadal,“ he said.
 
 
