BENGALURU: Drive long enough on any highway or district road in the state and you invariably find the stretches riddled with  . Karnataka has, in fact, recorded the fourth highest number of   this year.

 But the state government has sought to change this with the launch of some model state highways that could reduce accidents drastically and transform the way we travel. Implemented under a  , the 62km stretch between Belagavi and Yaragatti stands out. Built as per international standards and under safe corridor concepts to make them “zero accident-prone“ highways, these roads await official launch, which is expected sometime next month.
 
 “Each layer of the road has been completed in different stages to make it skid-resistant and long-lasting. It is also aimed at reducing road accidents and fatalities,“ said P Manivannan., chief project officer,   (KSHIP).
 
 Besides bringing down accidents to zero, the project aims at creating awareness regarding safe practices among road users, quick evacuation of and immediate medical aid for those injured in accidents, first-aid training for shopkeepers and labourers, who usually rush to help the injured and enforcement of rules by motor vehicles department and police.
 
 Manivannan said, the state government was, on an average, spending Rs 50 lakh to Rs 1 core per km of state highway or district road. But now it is spending around Rs 3 crore per km to match global standards in development of two-lane highways.
 
 Soon, people can also zip through Malavalli-Pavagada, Shivamogga-Shikaripura and Mudhol-Nippani state highways, all of which are nearing completion.
 
 According to project engineers, these highways have been developed using state-of-the-art design and construction. “These roads score for their smooth manoeuvrability and eye-catching stretches. Steps have been taken to remove encroachments and illegal advertisements. Excess land parcels have been identified on the stretches, which will be lev elled and used for parking vehicles. This is expected to prevent illegal parking near junctions and avoid congestion,“ they added.
 
 KSHIP officials estimate that the development of new highways would result in 30% reduction in road traffic fatalities and serious injuries by 2018, considering accidents were on the rise on these stretches. “Also, once completed, these highways will be monitored and maintained for eight years by the contractors concerned,“ said Manivannan.
 
