Gurgaon: Reeling under a financial crisis   will now going to join hands with private developers for infrastructure development in new sectors. According to the plan, private developers will build roads under supervision of Huda and the amount spent on construction will be adjusted by the government from pending external development charges ( ) of the developer. 

 Huda has completed the acquisition of land to develop   in new sectors 58-115. But due to unavailability of funds, the authority is struggling to complete its developmental work. The non-payment of external development charges (EDC), which was Huda’s prime of source of revenue, was one of the reasons behind its financial crisis.
 
 The government has to recover around Rs 12,027 crore of EDC from 350 developers, most of which is from developers with projects in  ,   and Rewari. This amount was supposed to be utilised for development work in new sectors. EDC is a one-time payment, which developers have to pay to the government for infrastructure developed by Huda like roads, water supply, sewerage systems and storm water drains, etc, in a project.
 
 To solve this twin problem — non-payment of EDC and delay in development works due to unavailability of funds, the state government has approved a scheme under which a private developer will construct the road in new sectors and the bill will be adjusted against pending EDC. 
 
 Some developers have already come forward to construct around 25 km of road in sectors 68-80, against adjustment of their pending EDC. Several residential and commercial projects are coming up in 13 sectors developed along Southern Peripheral Road (SPR). 
 
 “Some developers have expressed interest in constructing roads in sectors 68-80, against their pending EDC. The state government has given in principal approval to it. We are waiting for a formal proposal in this regard from developers, ” said Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav.
 
 Rahul Singla, director, Mapsko Developers, said the proposal is a win-win situation for both developers and the government.
 
 
