BENGALURU: The   in the   has started simmering: Veteran Congressman and   alleged on Monday that there have been attempts by the government to “oppress”   by preventing   from reaching the community.

 “Ours is the largest community in the state but our size is being deliberately underplayed. While Veerashaivas (Lingayats) are 16-17% of the state’s population, the government maintains that we are just 6-7%. This is being done to reduce the facilities provided by the government to the community,” Shivashankarappa told the Veerashaiva Panchamashali community gathering at Davanagere. Shivashankarappa is the father of horticulture minister S S Mallikarjun, and a prominent Lingayat face in the Congress.
 
 The octogenarian leader’s missive, which comes at a time when the BJP is planning to ride high on a Lingayat wave in the assembly elections next year, assumes greater importance in the context of AICC general secretary (Karnataka) K C Venugopal’s maiden visit to the party office in Bengaluru. In fact, the first task before Venugopal is to select a person for the KPCC president’s post, the frontrunners for which are incumbent G Parameshwara (Dalit), D K Shiva Kumar (Vokkaliga) and M B Patil (Lingayat).
 
 Though Shivashankarappa has not proposed the name of any fellow Lingayat leader for the president’s post, his allegation about Lingayats being sidelined by the Siddaramaiah government increases pressure on the party leadership. While maintaining that discrimination towards Lingayats should not be tolerated, Shivashankarappa appealed to the community to prepare for a massive rally against the government in November in Bengaluru. The rally is expected to be a display of strength by the Lingayat community.
 
 Shivashankarappa’s outburst is on the premise that the Congress, under Siddaramaiah, has been focusing extensively on the Ahinda (Kannada acronym for backward classes, dalits and minorities) vote bank. Moreover, reports leaked from the yet-to-be revealed caste census conducted by the government also pointed out that Lingayats are no longer a dominant community in the state. Though Siddaramaiah tried to placate the Lingayat community by suggesting a Lingayat for the KPCC president’s post, the move lacked consensus in the party.
 
 A source in the Congress said: “It is high time that party leaders speak to Shivashankarappa and counsel him or the party will find itself caught in a caste war in the coming months. In fact, the BJP suffered badly in the previous assembly elections because the Lingayats were upset that their strongman, B S Yeddyurappa, was dumped as chief minister. The Congress benefited from it then, it should now not do anything that would distance the Lingayats from the party.”
 
 
