HYDERABAD: Former champions   held their nerve as they overcame a stiff challenge from debutants   to record a 29-28 win in Zone-A league match on Day-3 of the   match at the Gachibowli Indoor Stadium, here on Sunday. Despite the loss, Steelers can take a lot of heart from their stupendous show as they had the experienced Mumbai pinned on the mat for a long time in the game. The defence duo of skipper   and   combined well to keep Steelers ahead.

 It seemed like Mumba had not fully recovered from their shock defeat in the opening match against   as they began on a cautious note. This showed in their approach towards the game. Though their raider Kashling Adake kept them ahead initially a couple of defence lapses proved costly for the Mumbaikars and that allowed the Haryana outfit to bounce back into the game.
 
 "Our defender   was nervous in the beginning," conceded Mumba skipper   later.
 
 Both teams traded raid points in the first minute to level the match at 1-1. Kashiling scored with a two-point raid in the fourth minute as U Mumba led 4-3. Shabeer Bapu scored with a raid point in the 14th minute as the Mumbai side kept the lead.
 
 However, Steelers levelled the game at 8-8 in the 15th minute with a raid point.
 
 In the next two minutes, Steelers scored two points to lead 10-8 but Anup scored with a raid and helped Mumba avert an all-out. Steelers, however, ended the first half by inflicting the first all out of the match and led 15-11.
 
 Even Anup lost his cool as Mumba seemed to be losing their momentum as they were soon trailing 15-19. Mumba took time to review the situation and brought in Nitin Madne in place of an off-colour Shabeer Bappu. This worked for Mumba as they slowly gained control of the match and inflicted an all-out to claim back the lead (29-25).
 
 Steelers scored two quick points as they trailed by a mere one point after 34 minutes. With just over five minutes left on the clock, Mumba got a tackle point to lead 26-24. A tackle and raid point in less than a minute ensured Mumba led 28-24 after 37 minutes. Though Steelers tried their best to retrieve the situation, it was all in vain as the experienced Mumbai side held its ground.
 
 
 
 
 The record-making Telugu Titans' skipper Rahul Chaudhari, who became the first player to reach the 500 point milestone, had a forgettable day on court as the hosts lost their second consecutive match in Zone-B to   31-21 at the Gachibowli Indoor Stadium on Sunday. 
 
