UNNAO: It’s an investment that dwarfs all other option one can imagine. A farmland on the border of Lucknow and Unnao which had practically no value till 2012 was being sold at Rs 50 lakh per bigha in 2013 and Rs 1 crore now -- a 20 times jump in three years. The   has brought unimaginable fortunes to those living on its both sides. Convenience that it has brought is just a corollary.

 The people living along India’s longest   were fortunate to be part of a land-acquisition experiment that created history for hassle-free execution. In the process, they got a compensation of Rs 16-52 lakh per bigha -- on an average four times more than the going rate.   said, “Farmers here never thought of selling their land as their livelihood entirely depended on agriculture. So, there was no market rate as such. But once the government proposed an expressway, a bigha of land which could barely fetch Rs 5 lakh, started getting Rs 16-52 lakh within a year.”
 
 This was a turning point in the fortunes of hundreds of villages on either side.   village says, “The lands closer to the expressway have price no less than Rs 1 crore per bigha today. The private builders are ready to pay that much whenever we say yes, but we are in a wait-and-watch mode. We think since the rate almost doubled in past two years, it may even triple or even go higher in coming years when the trade kicks off full-fledged on expressway.”
 
 Their hopes are without any basis. One can see many builders already starting plotting work in the area. Rajesh of Paraura village, which falls in Lucknow, says, “The expressway has paved way for plotting and housing projects in place of farms. A big builder has already approached us to sell of our lands as he wants to do plotting and sell off lands to people who want to buy property in Lucknow district. He is ready to pay Rs 1.25 crore per bigha to farmers.” 
 
 Few who had given their land to the expressway utilized their compensation to buy adjacent lands along the route to set up shops, garages and dairies in future. Aritlal of Madhwapur village says, “The money I got from government, I instantly invested in a land nearby to set up a huge dairy in next two years. I got Rs 25 lakh for half a bigha land, which I immediately used to buy 5 more bighas of land along expressway. Now the rate is Rs 1 crore per bigha.”
 
 The expressway has also opened doors for many facilities like electricity supply, roads and drainage network. Lalta Prasad, a farmer of Matariya village of Unnao district says, “Our village doesn’t have any electricity supply today. But with expressway coming, we hope that our village would get connection soon as builders have started doing plotting here. They would be laying infrastructure here which would benefit villages around. The facilities will further escalate rates in coming years.”
 
