GANDHINAGAR: The Gujarat   is less than 11 months away from the 2017 assembly elections. Fearing damage to its   and   votebanks — following the Patidar reservation stir and the dalit unrest following the   atrocities — the saffron party is now pinning its hopes on tribal voters in the state.

 When, led by chief minister Vijay Rupani and state BJP president Jitu Vaghani, it launched its ‘Adivasi Vikas Gaurav Yatra’ on Tuesday at Unai in South Gujarat, it stole a start on the Gujarat Congress’s planned Adivasi yatra.
 
 Of the 27 scheduled tribe (ST) reserved seats in the state, the BJP has 10, the Congress 16 and JDU has one. This is why BJP has launched this yatra so far ahead of the election. The BJP anticipates some losses in the 40 Patidar-dominated seats and 13 scheduled caste (SC) reserved seats, so it hopes to reach the 100 plus mark by maximizing tribal seats. In the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, BJP won all four of the ST reserved seats, so it expects a clean sweep in the assembly elections too.
 
 A senior BJP leader said: “Considering the possible damage to the party’s Patidar votebank due to the reservation agitation and loss of dalit votes after Una the incident, the party is looking to secure tribal and other non-Patidar non-dalit votes.
 
 “The situation has improved since the 2015 panchayat elections, where we lost badly in tribal areas. The Patidars reservation issue is not as serious now but as a precaution, we are trying to improve our capabilities in tribal areas. In the 2014 Lok Sabha election, we won all the ST reserved seats but in the 2015 panchayat elections, the party lost in tribal areas. We hence decided to start our campaign in tribal areas early through this rally. Tribals are influential not only on the 27 ST seats but also on nearby non-tribal seats too, where they make up more than 30% of the population. We hope that by keeping the tribal vote intact we will gain a two-thirds majority. Our performance has improved in tribal areas which were traditionally Congress strongholds,” the senior BJP leader said.
 
 The BJP yatra will cover 15 districts, 50 talukas and 500 venues. The yatra will highlight the efforts of Gujarat and the central government for the welfare of the tribal community. Chief minister Vijay Rupani has taken major decision to implement PESA Act in the state which will benefit tribal communities a lot. 
 
 
