PUDUCHERRY: The ongoing spat between the elected Congress government and   Kiran Bedi came to the fore again as the Puducherry legislative assembly, which convened for the first time in 2017 on January 24, began without the customary address by the Lt Governor. MLAs of ruling   and its ally DMK further upped the ante against Bedi during the first session of the year and insisted the government to pass a resolution urging the Union government to recall the Lt Governor charging that her actions have been undermining the role of the government and elected representatives. 

 Congress MLAs - K Lakshminarayanan, R K R Anantharaman, M N R Balan and T Djeamourthy and DMK MLA R Siva registered their protest against the functioning style of Lt Governor. AIADMK MLA A Anbalagan took a dig at Bedi for running a parallel government on social media. "Lt Governor has posted messages in Twitter claiming that she has absolute power in the Union territory. She has registered her protest against jallikattu. The government must bring a resolution urging the Centre to recall Lt Governor," said Anantharaman.
 
 Lakshminarayanan while terming Lt Governor's actions as unbecoming of a constitutional authority said her actions have undermined the duty, roles and responsibilities of the elected members of the legislative assembly. He charged that Bedi went on to the extent of suggesting the   to pass orders against the Puducherry government. "We have ample proof that the Lt Governor wrote to the tribunal seeking binding orders against the government," Lakshminarayanan said.
 
  Djeamourthy, while registering his protest against the Lt Governor for interfering in day-to-day affairs of the government, threatened that he will stage a fast to condemn her actions if the government did not initiate efforts to press the Centre for her recall.
 
 Speaker of the legislative assembly V Vaithilingam, and chief minister   advised the elected representatives not to criticise the Lt Governor. Narayanasamy suggested them to bring a resolution to discuss in detail about the issue. However he maintained that the rules governing the administration of the Union territory clearly demarcate the powers of two constitutional heads .
 
 Earlier, the leader of opposition and AINRC founder-leader N Rangasamy came down heavily on the Congress government, charging that the entire administrative machinery has been paralysed due to the power tussle between the government and Lt Governor. 
 
 AIADMK MLAs led by Anbalagan at one point of time the entered the well of the house and squatted in front of the speaker of the legislative assembly raising slogans against the government. AINRC and AIADMK MLAs walked out of the assembly to register their protest against the government.
 
