MUMBAI: Military records show no explosives, including  , was missing from seizures made during the tenure of   Prasad Purohit in Kashmir in 2002-04, the officer's counsel said on Tuesday.

 The claim is significant as one of the main charges slapped on Purohit by the anti-terrorism squad (ATS) investigating the   was that he had retained RDX seized during his stint in J&K and used it for terrorism. He is also accused of using the RDX for the India-Pakistan Samjhauta Express blast.
 
 Counsel Shrikant Shivade presented the information received from the army while arguing for Purohit's bail before the Bombay high court after the special trial court rejected it last year. His arguments before a bench of Justices Ranjit More and Shalini Phansalkar Joshi centred on trying to discredit the case built by the Maharashtra ATS against Purohit.
 
 In this attempt, he brought up the issue of the alleged extrajudicial killings of two absconding accused in the Malegaon case. “I have two post-mortem reports of two unidentified bodies with ADR (accidental death report) numbers,'' he said.“If recent public statements by a suspended police officer, Mahboob Mujawar, from Solapur were true that the reports were those of absconding accused Ramji Kalsangra and Sandeep Dange, allegedly killed by the ATS and mixed up with bodies of 2611 terror victims, it would cast a grave doubt on the integrity of the ATS and its case.“
 
 Shivade added that one re port shows no bullet injury although the person allegedly died in the CST station attack in which the terrorists had sprayed bullets on hapless commuters. The other shows a bullet wound that appears to be a contact wound, he said, pointing out that the ATS had kept seeking extension of Purohit's remand initially on grounds that Kalsangra and Dange needed to be traced.
 
 Sandesh Patil, prosecutor for the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which has taken up the probe now, objected to taking the post-mortem reports on record. Mujawar's allegations are being probed and that would be a “separate case'', he said.
 
 To counter allegations of conspiracy meetings, Shivade said Purohit had reported the formation of the Abhinav Bharat “political party“ and all its meetings to his superiors. He also presented statements of two military officers to NIA that cast doubts on the charge of Purohit assembling bombs in the Deolali camp. He said that the officers had “seen'' an ATS officer in a “suspicious manner'' inside co-accused Sudhakar Chaturvedi's room from where later the ATS seized “RDX traces''.
 
 He also read out statements of two co-accused, who have been discharged in the case but are accused in the 2006 Malegaon blasts. They have said they used to “assemble explosives in Manavta Nagar, Indore'' and not the Deolali camp.
 
 Purohit has sought bail, saying he has been detained for more than eight years without trial and the ATS “framed'' him by “planting RDX''.
 
 The new chargesheet filed last year by NIA says Purohit flouted army service rules by forming Abhinav Bharat in 2006. Purohit's take is that he was only acting in discharge of his duty to gather more intelligence.
 
