Kozhikode: A special council meeting chaired by mayor Thottathil Raveendran on Firday approved a detailed project report (DPR) worth Rs 221.28 crore on solid waste management for the financial year 2017-18. The DPR envisages setting up Rs 200 crore gasification project to produce electricity from non-degradable waste such as rubber, thermocol, sponges, non-woven bags, napkins, synthetic cloths etc. The civic body will submit the project to the state sanitation mission to implement it under the Swachh Bharath Mission .

 Health inspector Krishna Kumar presenting the DPR at the council hall said the project will be implemented adhering to the guidelines of state pollution control board and state sanitation mission. “Around 2.5 acres of land is required for the setting up of gasification project which envisages producing 100 MW electricity per day from 125 tonne non-degradable waste”. The spent money can be recovered within fifteen years as the project is expected to generate Rs 18 crore income per year,’’ he said.
 
 HI Krishna Kumar said a total of 300 tonne per day waste is being generated in the corporation limit. “Of this, 60 to 80 tonnes of solid waste are being transported to the Njeliyanparamana trenching ground on a daily basis. Another 100 to 120 tonnes of generated waste is either disposed at the generation point or collected for recycling purpose. And remaining 100 to 140 tonnes of waste being dumped at public places can be used to produce electricity,’’ he said.
 
 The DPR has also set aside a sum of Rs 26 lakh to purchase street sweeping equipment. The project has set aside another Rs 3.12 crore to purchase advanced waste transportation vehicles such as mobile rear loading garbage compactor, mobile jetting cum suction machine for cleaning sewer line and storm water drain with five year operating guarantee and supervision and squad vehicle.
 
 Under the scheme, another Rs 3 crore has been earmarked to popularize various waste disposal scheme which include 2000 units of biogas plants, 10000 house hold level composting units , 20 each institutional level biogas plants, community composting and public place composting methods in four years.
 
 For the disposal of non-degradable waste, twenty material recovery centres will be set up at each circle offices. A two storey central recovery centre on a 6000 square feet areas will be set up adjacent to Njeliyanparamba trenching ground
 
 The non-degradable waste such as plastic carry bags, bottles and other items will be stored making separate compartments. The health wing will be entrusted to auction the stored waste materials. The project also set-aside fund for the revamping of the plastic recycling unit at west hill. A sum of 2.80 crore is earmarked for collecting e-waste. Another Rs 10 lakh has been earmarked to carry out awareness programme for this purpose. 
 
 
