

 David Guetta’s India visit seems to be jinxed. After the cancellation of the Bengaluru show, now the Mumbai gig too has landed in a mess. The event scheduled for Friday night was cancelled at the last minute, after the organisers failed to get permissions from the police and the BMC. However, on Saturday, the organisers sent out a statement saying that the required permissions have been obtained and the event has been rescheduled for Sunday morning. The entire incident has left fans in a fix, with their plans going for a toss. 
 
 
 
 
 – Deven Bharti, Joint Commissioner of Police (Law & Order) told BT at the time of going to press 
 
 
 
 
 Music lovers are upset with the change. Says businessman Faizan Shaikh, who had planned to attend the concert with four of his friends, “We were apprehensive when we heard the Bengaluru concert was cancelled, but we still went ahead and booked tickets. We reached the venue early on Friday and found that the show had been cancelled. It was such a bummer. We had to go to other places to enjoy our night, most of which were packed since people who had planned to go to the Guetta show were all streaming into these places.” About the new timings, he says, “That’s quite crazy. We wanted to party on a Friday night, not a Sunday morning! Who goes for a   concert in the morning!” Abhishek Dasgupta, a business analyst, reiterates the sentiment. “I may just go for it, but I’m hardly in a mood for it. Who goes for a DJ-remixer’s concert at 11 in the morning? The organisers should understand that it is not always about the tickets or the money, it is about the enthusiasm also,” he argues. It’s not just city fans who have been left in the lurch. Sebtain Sultanali, who came down to Mumbai from Dubai, says he wants a refund. “I leave for Dubai on Saturday night, so the new timings just don’t make sense. It was such a buzzkill. It’s different if the party is in Goa, by the beach. But in Mumbai, a morning show is just not happening,” he says. 
 The concert’s FB page and Twitter handle were flooded with messages from people looking to sell off their tickets, even if at a heavy discount. Kshitij Shah, a student and EDM enthusiast, rued, “I’m not free on Sunday. Also, EDM concerts during the day are no fun. But if we can’t find any buyer, the tickets will go to waste.” 
 
 
 
 Guetta’s show today will clash with the Mumbai Marathon and some people are being forced to make a choice. Says Preeti Agarwal, an advertising professional, “My boyfriend, along with our friends, had booked tickets for the concert since it was on a Friday. Most of us are running the marathon today and now, the concert is clashing with it. We are left with a tough choice.” However Manuj Agarwal, CEO, Percept Live, organisers of the show, feels there will not be a clash between the two events. “The marathon won’t affect our event because it’s not taking place in the same area. We begin in the morning and the marathon will get over by then.” But what about security? Will that not be a concern with two big events demanding security personnel? “A concert like this requires only 60 policemen, not more,” says Agarwal, dismissing the concerns. 
 
 
 
 
 The Mumbai concert today will go on till 4 pm, while the show in Delhi is scheduled to start at the same time. However, Guetta is expected on stage only at 8 pm, says Agarwal. He adds, “The Mumbai concert has been rescheduled for Sunday morning at 11 am and will go on till 
 4 pm. Post that, Guetta will take a private jet to Delhi, for the second show. Though the Delhi concert begins at 4 pm, Guetta will come on stage only at 8 pm. It’s just a two-hour flight from here.” 
 
 
 
 
 
 Robin Schulz, who was to accompany Guetta through his India tour, as a asupporting act, was deported, due to lack of proper paperworks. He Tweeted, "To all my Indian fans, I am so sorry not to be with you this weekend playing with David Guetta in India. Unfortunately, I had travelled all the way from my shows in Brazil and I didn't have the 'Yellow Vaccine' paperwork which is required to be allowed into the country after spending time in Brazil. Without this information, I was refused entry and sent home again. My apologies to all my fans hoping to see me perform this weekend. I look forward to partying with you in India again soon! Sorry so much again and lots of love, Robin."
 
 
 The Bengaluru event was cancelled at the last moment, with authorities denying the organisers permission. While the authorities said that it was in light of the New Year eve mass molestation, and the authorities did not want to take any chance, the Bengaluru police were quick to hit back that the organisers did not seek the required permissions till it was too late.
 
 
  The original plan of the event being held at Mahalaxmi Racecourse was shifted to Reliance Jio gardens, only on Thursday, a day before the event.
 
  The Guetta show was originally planned for Noida, which was later rescheduled for Delhi’s Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium.
 
 
 
  On Saturday morning, just when Mumbai was trying to come to terms with the rescheduled timings, news started pouring in that the Delhi event, scheduled for Jan 15
  evening, had also been denied permission from authorities. However, till the time of going to press, Agarwal denied it, saying, “People in Delhi are spreading false news. The Noida schedule was cancelled, and even that was over five days ago and not today. We have shifted the Delhi concert venue to Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium and it will happen there on Sunday.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
