Bhubaneswar:   was packed to the brim. There was expectation in the air as the Odiya girls took their positions for the 200m final —   in Lane 5 and Dutee Chand in Lane 7. They were hoping the former would add one more to her medal tally in the relay and the latter would take her tally to three. 

 As the starting gun was fired, the silence was instantaneously transformed into vibrant cheers for the local favourites. But even before the eight competitors went into the straight, the expectations of all those gathered around looked set to get a rude jolt. While Nanda had gone into the middle of the pack, Dutee was readying herself for a late burst to run herself into contention. 
 
 But it was too late even for her stupendous acceleration to make it past the Kazakh favourites — Victoriya Zyabkina and Olga Safronova — both of whom came into the 22nd   with timings far better than the local hopes. While Dutee could still have made a podium finish, there was the burst from Sri Lankan Rumeshika Rathnayake, who clocked a personal best that was 0.06 seconds less than that of both Dutee and Srabani (23.34). The Sri Lankan’s inspired run put paid to the hopes of the local supporters.
 
 While Zyabkina (23.10) and Safronova (23.47) scripted a 1-2 for Kazakhstan, the athlete from the Emerald Isle finished third with a timing of 23.43 seconds. Dutee had to be content with the fourth spot and a timing of 23.59 seconds while Srabani could only manage a fifth-place finish with a timing of 23.67 seconds.
 
 Some still thought   would bring some solace to the eager crowd in men’s 200m but the expectation was unfounded as his field of competitors had far better timings. Having been disqualified in his earlier two events — 100m and 4x100m relay — Mallick did make an inspiring start to the race. But the slender lead, running in Lane 1, had soon vanished. With Yang Chun-Han of Chinese Taipei (20.66) taking the top spot, the second place went to Korea’s Park Bong-Ko (20.76). The third place went to the fastest man in Asia, Qatar’s Femi Seun Ogunode (20.79), who came into the championship still recovering from back and hamstring injuries. 
 
 Mallick could only finish seventh in the eight-athlete field, with a timing of 21.03 seconds, bringing to an end the chance of another medal for India from the host state.
 
 
