Nagpur: Fourteen months ago when the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) had decided to convert the road between LAD square and NMC Mahatma Gandhi School from tar into cemented one and given contract to a Mumbai-based private contractor, Disha Dynamic Buildwell Private Ltd, the residents of the localities were elated over the decision. But their excitement soon became a nightmare as the company has failed to complete the works on even one side of the 550 metre stretch even though the deadline to finish it was four months. The NMC, instead of terminating their work order and blacklisting the contractor, extended the contract up to December this year. With the civic body paying deaf ears to problems of the residents and continuing to protect the contractor, Youth Congress headed by corporator Bunty Shelke has taken up the challenge to pursue the works with the NMC and get it completed followed by stringent action against the contractor.  Youth Congress activists, along with residents of Shivaji Nagar and Gandhi Nagar have also decided to stage demonstration on the stretch on Sunday. As per the NMC’s data, the work on the stretch is a part of package no-III under Rs324 crore — cement concrete road project phase-II. The stretch is the smallest among the three roads to be covered under package-III. The remaining two stretches are Ram Nagar square to Ambazari Ghat and South Ambazari road to Ring Road through IT Park. The estimated cost of the package is Rs13.14 crore. The NMC had issued work order to the contractor in May 2016. The works on all three stretches were supposed to complete within 11 months. It took 14 months to complete the concretization on one side of the stretch. Works of storm water drain, inter-locking tiles, road-divider, footpath of one side is yet to complete. There is no sign of works on the other side of the stretch yet. A resident of Shivaji Nagar, Shrivats Sharma, told TOI that problems have aggravated after the commencement of rains. “Earlier, we are unable to move our vehicles out of our houses but now we are not able to even come out of our houses. The NMC assured to complete works in four months. Now, the civic body itself doesn’t know when it will finish off the works. Frequent accidents are taking place on the stretch,” he said. Sharma is the grandson of former mayor Rikabchand Sharma. “The stretch is named after my grandfather who has done some great job for the development of the city. That’s why I have been pursuing the works on a regular basis. Many people use the road to travel towards North Ambazari Road or Ram Nagar and Ambazari tekdi. One school and a private educational institute is also situated on the stretch. Even some VIPs are residing on the stretch. All are left to face severe problems,” he said. An NMC public works department official said that the contractor was ineligible to execute the work. “The work order was issued to Disha Dynamic seeing its experience. But the works are being done by the persons who have absolutely no experience. We cannot terminate the contract unless the completion of the works on other side of the stretch. Action will be taken once works on this stretch is completed,” he said. When TOI contacted Prashant Deshmukh of Disha Dynamic, he promised to comment on the issue but did not respond later.