NAGPUR: The head of government-appointed task force on farm distress in Maharashtra, Kihore Tiwari, has urged Union finance minister   to provide in the general budget a special relief package for dryland   and Marathwada.

 “It is the need of the hour. I hope the finance minister ensures urgent relief for farmers who depend on rain-fed agriculture. Farmers of Vidarbha and Marathwada regions are undergoing untold suffering owing to the unabated drought and failure of crops.
 
 “Farmers of these regions have supported the government’s demonetisation move even at the cost of incurring heavy losses because of inability to sell produce in the last two months. 
 
 “With the RBI and banks awash with cash collected after demonetisation, it is time the government comes out in support of the rural populace, particularly the farming community,” Tiwari wrote to Jaitley just prior to budget preparation exercise.
 
 “The best way out of the crisis for farmers is to grant a total crop loan waiver while ensuring fresh loans for the next crop. More importantly, the government should spell out remunerative minimum support prices for crops as part of union budget,” said Tiwari. 
 
 Adequate funds should also be allocated agriculture-based industrial units in rural areas, Tiwari suggested. He urged the finance minister to set up a foolproof mechanism to stall artificial price drop in the market by unscrupulous traders.
 
 Roshan Kothari, director of Wani Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC), said the MSP procurement system should be strengthened in order to procure in bulk quantities. The mechanism for fixing of MSP should be realistic, he said. He said the schemes stopped by the BJP government like NABARD funding of agriculture marketing infrastructure should be restarted. He has also suggested tax incentives for new starting agro-industry and schemes for promotion of private markets and infrastructure.
 
 Farmers leader   hoped that the government did something new and substantial to make difference in lives of millions of workers and farm labour in the unorganized sector. 
 
 “ The 7th Pay Commission has done it for government staff. Now the unorganized sector awaits a similar relief,” said Jawandhiya. 
 
 “The Modi government should fulfil its promise of doubling the farmer’s income by announcing special schemes and higher prices for agri produce,” he added. 
 
 He hoped the government addresses the problems of Patels in Gujarat and other communities who depend on agriculture and are in agitation mode for a long time.
 
 Agriculture wish list
 
 Special package sought for dryland farmers of Vidarhha and Marathwada 
 
 Crop loan waiver for farmers and adequate loans for next crop
 
 Compensation for losses suffered in November to January because of demonetisation
 
 Realistic system for fixing of minimum support prices of crops
 
 Assured income for unorganized workers
 
 Schemes to promote agro-industry
 
 
