Nagpur: Without taking any names, former MP Vilas   warned that the Congress leaders supporting   candidates in Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) would face action from   bosses. “A note is being taken of their activities and they will face the music after the election,” he told the media on Tuesday during the release of Congress’ manifesto for NMC polls. Former ministers Nitin Raut, Satish Chaturvedi and Anees Ahmed were conspicuous by their absence.

 “There were 2,000 aspirants for Congress tickets but we had only 151 to provide. A large number of people had to be denied tickets and there is bound to be dissidence. However, once the ticket has been given to a candidate, no matter who recommended it, all party leaders should support the candidate,” Muttemwar said.
 
 The ex-MP said that Lalit Bagle, who threw ink on Ashok Chavan, president of Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC), was not a party worker. Commenting on the photograph showing Bagle presenting a tulsi plant to him, Muttemwar said that a large number of mathadi workers had felicitated him in the programme and he did not know any of them.
 
 When Muttemwar was pointed out that Pravin Pote, who threw eggs on Congress leaders, was a party member, he said, “There were seven to eight such people. It was the job of the police to stop them. In spite of Ashok Chavan being a former chief minister, the BJP government did not provide him any security.”
 
 On Congress workers threatening more attacks on party leaders during campaigning, the Congress leader said, “What kind of precautions can we take against such attacks. We can’t stop campaigning for party candidates. Let them shoot me if they want to.”
 
 The former union minister expressed anguish over Congress workers performing mock funerals of party leaders. “This is not Nagpur’s culture. It is responsibility of all political parties to ensure that such incidents don’t take place,” he said.
 
 On absence of Raut, Chaturvedi and Ahmed in the manifesto release press conference, Muttemwar said that they were busy campaigning for Congress candidates and denied any differences with them.
 
 When asked whether the factionism would damage Congress’ prospects, Muttemwar said, “People will vote for the candidate if he or she has done good work. No party leader will be able to ensure the defeat of such candidates.” 
 
 
