The cliched, over-used adages about sleeping early might not be something that most people take seriously, but cardiologists and sleep experts swear by them. Doctors say that losing quality and quantity sleep is detrimental to our health. Senior interventional cardiologist, Dr  , says, “Sleep disorders cause an increase in blood pressure, heart rate and thyroid hormones, which is indicative of a stress response. This leads to increase heart attack and heart failures.” Experts reiterate that people who sleep less than seven hours per day have an increased risk of heart disease, and this is true regardless of other factors that influence heart-health, like age, weight, smoking and exercise habits.

 
 
 Sleep-deprived people show less variability in their heart rate, state doctors. Dr Gautam explains, “Instead of fluctuating normally, the heart rate usually stays elevated and that is not a good sign. It mimics a situation of heightened stress.” Lack of sleep can increase insulin resistance, a risk factor for the development of type 2 diabetes and heart disease.
 
  He adds, “Shortened sleep can increase CRP, or C-reactive protein, which is released during stress and inflammation. If CRP is high, it’s a risk factor for cardiovascular and heart disease. Shortened sleep also interferes with appetite regulation. So the individual may end up eating more or consuming food that’s unhealthy for the heart.”
 
 
 
 Research shows increased incidence of heart attack or stroke linked to sleep deprivation or excess sleep. Cardiac electro physiologist, Dr  , says, “As per a meta analysis in a European heart journal, short sleepers with less than six hours of sleep run 48 per cent increased risk of coronary artery disease and and 15 per cent of stroke. Similarly, those who sleep more than nine hours have 38 per cent and 65 per cent increased risk of coronary artery disease and stroke respectively.” A recent study also has confirmed increased association of heart attack and stroke with sleep deprivation.
 
 Doctors state that short sleepers tend to have faster heart rate and higher blood pressure which expose them to a higher risk of cardiovascular diseases. They tend to have insulin resistance leading to increased incidence of diabetes mellitus. The C-reactive protein, a inflammation marker and risk factor for coronary artery disease, stays elevated in sleep-deprived people. The coronary calcium score is more in short sleepers. All these are considered as risk factors for both heart attack and stroke.
 
 Dr S  , consultant physician and consultant, sleep medicine, says, “Obstructive Sleep Apnoea patients are prone to develop high blood pressure. They are at risk of heart attacks and also type 2 diabetes, stroke, obesity and dementia. In fact, it is advisable to evaluate patients of high blood pressure, angina, heart attack, heart failure for OSA. Management of OSA is highly rewarding since it not only treats the sleep problems but also the associated disorders are better managed. Oxygen is a basic requirement of body cells and if this is lacking, be in sleep only, it needs to be treated.” 
 
 
 Here are some important points to keep in mind to avoid heart attacks due to lack of sleep
 
 POINTS TO PONDER
 
 EAT RIGHT
 Having a healthy diet and exercising regularly is important. Experts say that eating light food at night before 8 pm is good.
 
 
