LUCKNOW: Within four months since the   began working with the UP government to prepare an action plan for the development of the state, chinks seem to be appearing in the working of the two with a number of departments raising issues over data being provided by the panel and issues being raised by them.

 The state irrigation department has challenged the claim of the Niti Aayog in its vision document that the command and catchment area of irrigation canals has been declining alarmingly in   and there was need of a time-based action plan to improve this.
 
 “This is far from facts. The department has written to Niti Aayog, saying that this claim is not correct,“ said irrigation department engineer-in-chief (projects) Kunal Kulsheshtra.
 
 Sources in the government said even the state health department is unhappy over Niti Aayog's decision of third party inspection and monitoring of implementation of plans and programmes of the government in medical and health de partment. “The plan to hire management consultants to monitor implementation of projects and prorammes has not been implemented yet and will be discussed with the chief secretary soon,“ said a senior health department official, not wanting to be named.
 
 Soon after the formation of   government headed by chief minister   in March, Prime Minister   had initiated the process of Niti Aayog working with the state government to push development in UP to get the state out of the “BIMARU“ status.
 
 Since May 10, when the Niti Aayog had its first meeting here, the panel has had three sittings in Lucknow . The two other meetings were held on July 3 and September 4.
 
 At its second meeting in July, the   submitted its ro admap -“ Action Plan for Uttar Pradesh“ -a vision document identifying eight areas including education, health, irrigation, industry and power and presented a picture of the existing scenario and future plan with a specific timeline.
 
 In the document for agriculture, the Niti Aayog expressed its concern over the shrinking irrigation area through canals.It said: “There is need to take note of decrease in canal irrigated area in the state (decline from 32.1lakh hectare in the early 90s to 25.5 lakh hectares at present).There is need to ensure proper maintenance, modernization and water delivery from canal irrigation system)“.
 
 This was seen as poor remark on the functioning of the irrigation department. “I am not sure of Niti Aayog's figures,“ said Kulsheshtra. In the health sector, Niti Aayog has chosen three states--UP ,   and Assam--to improve their health programmes and schemes, with management consultants being asked to monitor implementation.
 
 “We will hold discussions with the chief secretary and then take a call,“ said an officer with the health department.
 
