NEW DELHI: South Delhi Municipal Corporation would soon begin setting up a waste-to-energy plant and an engineered landfill site at   in Okhla. 

 The plan was approved by the standing committee after the Prime Minister’s Office mediated in transfer of land from DDA to the civic body. The project would cost nearly Rs 350 crore and is expected to generate 15MW of electricity. 
 
 At present, the 32-acre landfill site at Okhla has over 60 lakh tonnes of accumulated garbage that reach 160 feet against the recommended height of 90 feet. 
 
 Shailendra Singh Monti, the standing committee chairman, said, “The corporation is also likely to be allotted 14.2 acres of land in Tehkhand which is at present in the possession of Cement Corporation of India; another 35.33 acres will be transferred by DDA.” 
 
 The civic body says over 3,300 TPD (tonnes per day) of waste is generated by the 64 lakh people who live in areas under its jurisdiction. This figure is expected to rise to 4,000 TPD by 2020. 
 
 The functional waste-to-energy plant at Okhla has a maximum capacity of 2,000 TPD and caters to both SDMC and  . About 1,600 TPD of unprocessed waste is dumped at the landfill site. 
 
 “With the start of a few initiatives such as greater emphasis on the segregation of waste at source and at secondary collection points, the quantity of remaining unprocessed waste may decrease in the near future. Keeping these issues in mind, the capacity of the WTE plant is being kept at 1,200 TDP,” said SDMC commissioner Puneet Goel. 
 
 Another senior official from the corporation said, “Of the proposed Rs 350 crore budgetary allocation, we will receive 35% of the project cost—nearly Rs 120 crore— as a subsidy grant from the urban development ministry as part of the Swachh Bharat campaign. Also, 15% —almost Rs 50 crore—will come from the power ministry. SDMC will have to spend only about Rs 175 crore for this project. And once we start selling power from this project, we will make Rs 60 crore every year.” 
 
 
