MUMBAI: In a huge relief for the  , the   (SC) has allowed its plea to appeal against the   passed by the high court (HC) last April.The SC has also allowed the society to maintain lifts, fire equipment and the generator.

 The HC, in its hard-hitting ruling, had directed demolition of the 31-storey structure, which the Centre said had come up in contravention of green norms and posed a security risk as it was near sensitive defence installations.
 
 An apex court bench of Justices J Chelameswar and A M Sapre has fixed the appeal for a final hearing for October 2017.Solicitor general Ranjit Kumar had earlier opposed the society's special leave petition to appeal the HC verdict.
 
 The SC allowed a plea by the society's counsel,  , to let them maintain the elevators as an essential service to keep them in working condition. Last year, on July 29, the building was formally handed over to the Central government to comply with an SC order passed the week before. After the society went to the SC to challenge the HC's demolition order, the top court on July 22 directed the Centre to take possession of the building till it decided the matter. The society's secretary , R C Thakur, said the “handing over was done in compliance with the SC's order only for security purposes“. The building remains unoccupied.
 
 The government, which first opposed the plea, later relented as the SC bench at the last hearing observed that if otherwise the society were to eventually win the legal battle and the building was no longer in habitable condition, the society could then seek damages.
 
 The society , which had lost its battle against an order of demolition issued by the Union ministry of environment and forests (MoEF) for environmental zone violations, stressed before the SC that it had all development permissions and green clearances in place. It argued that the demolition order violated principles of natural justice.
 
 Senior counsel Darius Khambata, who appeared for the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority and the defence ministry , had detailed various “serious breaches of law“ to state why the demolition order must be upheld. But the society had stressed on how the MoEF had allegedly shortcircuited natural justice in issuing the demolition order in January 2011.
 
 Among the findings the society challenged was that the plot was not even available to begin with. The HC had held that the plot was created by carving out a road reservation, without following legal procedure, only after bureaucrats applied for the attractively priced flats in a prime Mumbai location. But the society said change of user and all permissions were legal.
 
 The HC had held, “Though the Backbay Reclamation plot was not available, Adarsh Society proposed reduction of Capt Prakash Pethe Marg from 61m to 18m. The request was readily accepted by the state government, though the planning authority , MMRDA, declined to initiate proceedings legally required for such deletion.The deleted area was partly included in the residential zone and allotted to Adarsh without due process of law.“
 
