HYDERABAD:   is back with a bang in the state. As many as 56 positive cases of   infection have been reported within the first 20 days itself. Four people have died, including one on Friday. But what’s worse is the unlikeliness of last-stage swine flu patients getting the best treatment in any of the state-run hospitals.

 The latest victim of the dreaded virus was 60-year-old Pushpalatha, a resident of Puranapul, who succumbed while battling for her life at Gandhi Hospital on Friday. She had been on ventilator support for three days. Three other people breathed their last at the hospital since January 5, all of them brought in the last minute in critical condition. 
 
 “She (Pushpalatha) came in late from a private hospital and had comorbidity. Besides H1N1 infection, she was simultaneously battling thyroid, diabetes, heart problem and hypertension,” said Dr JV Reddy, the superintendent of Gandhi Hospital. 
 
 Last-stage swine flu patients often develop Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS), which is why they are put on ventilator support. However, critically-ill patients can often be saved with Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO) — the last treatment option. However, the catch is that none of the government-run hospitals in the state are equipped to provide ECMO. “There is no such facility here. We are providing only ventilator support for last stage patients,” said Dr Reddy.
 
 Some of the corporate hospitals in the city have ECMO facility, but charge a bomb for it — approximately Rs 1.5 lakh per day. Healthcare experts told TOI that ECMO remains the best bet if the patient has already reached the final stage of the disease. “Any swine flu patient whose lungs are severely damaged due to pneumonia or ARDS and cannot be managed through conventional ventilation can benefit from ECMO. It is an invasive procedure with tubes going into the major blood vessels of the body for drawing out and pumping in blood,” explained Dr PNB Gopal, senior consultant intensivist at Continental Hospital.
 
 In conventional ventilation, oxygen is pumped at high concentration and pressure into patient’s lungs, which then takes it to the blood stream. It gets attached to haemoglobin and gets delivered to the various tissues. In ECMO, the blood is drawn out of the body and is loaded with oxygen in an oxygenator. This oxygenated blood is pumped back into the body. “The main advantage of ECMO is that the patient’s lungs are bypassed and are given rest. During ECMO, the ventilator is discontinued,” Dr Gopal said. More than swine flu patients with ARDS, ECMO is used during cardiac surgery to provide cardiopulmonary bypass.
 
 For swine flu patients in the state, however, ECMO is a distant reality. Ironically, they are facing problems in even getting admitted in private hospitals empanelled under Aarogyasri. This, despite the disease getting covered under the government health scheme.
 
 Private empanelled Aarogyasri hospitals have been directed to take in swine flu patients only at the last stage (when they develop ARDS) for providing them ventilator support. “We are helpless as the government’s 2015 circular tells us not to treat a confirmed swine flu patient unless he or she develops ARDS. Even if a hospital treats an H1N1 positive patient with an Aarogyasri card, no amount can be claimed later if the patient did not develop ARDS,” said Dr T Narsinga Reddy, chairman of Aarogyasri Private Network Hospitals, Telangana. It is another fact that several private hospitals do not even have ventilator facility, which is why last-stage patients are often rushed to Gandhi Hospital. 
 
 
