KOLKATA: There have been reports that Cricket Australia (CA) has offered long-term contracts to some of its key players to stop them from playing in the  , but former Australia captain   believes that cricketers from Down Under will continue to be part of the richest T20 league in the world.

 "I don't think it's fair for me to comment (on the reported offers) as I haven't spoken with anyone from Cricket Australia or individual players. But I can guarantee that I was given every opportunity to come and play in the IPL. Cricket Australia was very supportive of the decisions I made," Clarke said at a press conference to announce the tie-up between Michael Clarke Cricket Academy and newly-opened Aditya School of Sports through which talented youngsters - including Kashmiri girl Iqra Rasool - will be travelling to Sydney for a 12-day programme.
 
 "Unfortunately, I had a lot of injuries in my career which restricted my IPL appearances. I played one year with Pune Warriors and enjoyed the experience very much. And now I am back here commentating. IPL is a wonderful tournament." Asked if the possible absence of stralian players will harm IPL, Australian players will harm IPL, Clarke said, "Cricket is bigger than any individual. If Sir   can retire and the game goes on, it doesn't matter who comes in and who goes out. Cricket is the greatest game in the world. But the   and Steve Smiths will keep coming to IPL. They love it over here.
 
 "I don't know of one Australian cricketer who has not had a good time in IPL. I don't think we need to keep talking about that. I am confident you will continue to see Australian cricketers being part of IPL."
 
 The Champions Trophy starts in England on June 1 and Clarke feels conditions in the UK will play a big role.
 
 "If there is swing and seam in the pitch, the Australian fast bowlers will be tough to face. (Mitchell) Starc, (James) Pattinson, (Josh) Hazle wood, (Pat) Cummins bowl at 140-150 kmph, so if there is any swing or seam, they will be a handful. As will South Africa, who also have got good fast bowlers," opined Clarke.
 
 "But if it is hot and spinners get assistance, there are no better exponents than (Ravichandran) Ashwin and (Ravindra) Jadeja. That will favour India."
 
 Clarke felt the poor form of top Indian batsmen in IPL should not be a worry. "It's (Champions Trophy) a different format from T20. You get the chance to build your innings. I don't think Indian batsmen will be too concerned whether they have performed well in IPL or not. They will have enough time to be ready for the tournament. I am backing India and Australia to play the final," he predicted, before adding with a laugh, "and hope Australia win by one run!"
 
