Tirupur: In a third such incident within a week, an 11-year-old boy drowned in a rainwater-filled stone quarry at Iduvampalayam in the city on Monday. 

 The victim, Lakshmanan, son of Mahesh and Jayamani, was a resident of Andipalayam, police sources said. “He was a class IV student at the local government school. He had ventured into the quarry along with his friends. As none of them could swim, they were playing in a shallow area. After some time, Lakshmanan slipped and fell into the 60ft deep pit. Seeing Lakshmanan struggling for life, some of his friends ran towards a residential area and brought some adults for help. But, it was too late,” said a police officer. 
 
 Police and fire and rescue services personnel reached the spot soon. “As it was already evening and visibility was low, fire and rescue services personnel had to go back, promising to return on the next day,” president of a local residential welfare association VA Ramesh said. “But, they did not reach the spot even after 8.30am. When we contacted them over phone, a personnel said that since those who work in the morning shifts were yet to take charge, they could not reach on time. Local residents, who grew angry over the response, staged a road roko on Iduvampalayam-Andipalayam Road,” he said.
 
 The personnel reached the spot later and fished out the body with the help of local residents.
 
 M Santhosh, 8, of Allalapuram in Palladam and D Gokula Krishnan, 14, of Boomalur, had drowned in water-filled pits on September 27. 
 
 Police sources said the parents of all the three victims were daily wagers. “As they had to go to work, they were not in a position to monitor their children throughout the day. The children were not sufficiently aware about the danger associated with such places. Unmindful of the danger, they went for fishing and swimming along with their friends. Authorities should take steps to set up fences around such places and also install warning boards to prevent such incidents,” spokesperson of the Aam Admi Party, S Sundarapandian, said.
 
 District child protection officer D Vasanth Kumar said, “Similar incidents are reported during the quarterly exam holidays. We plan to create awareness among schoolchildren about the danger in venturing into waterbodies.”
 
 
