The general perception about filmi kids is that given their family lineage, which should give them an easy passage into the film industry, they will, inevitably, land up working in it. And while  , the son of filmmaker TS   and actress Nagini Bharana, has eventually made films his bread and butter, he says that he grew up with no particular liking for the industry. As he gears up for the release of his debut directorial, Pannaga tells us about his journey and how   came about.
A learning curve
 Despite being born into a filmi family, I had absolutely no interest in films, per se. In fact, when I was very young, I wanted to be a cricketer. As I grew older, I had a fascination for the stage, but as a dancer. I really envisioned myself as a performing artiste, in that sense. During my college days, I was a regular fixture at all cultural fests, which my parents did not object to. The only thing my dad told me was that whatever I wanted to be in life, I had to learn it well and excel in it. And while I won many prizes as a dancer, my college attendance took a hit and I did not get a hall ticket to appear for my second PU exams. Although I later cleared my exams, that incident provided a reality check and got me thinking what I was doing with my life.
 This was also a time when I wasn’t given pocket money. My parents, especially my mom, believed that I had to earn whatever money they gave me. Since we had an editing studio back then, I assisted there, but found the serials we worked on quite boring. She, however, chided me that it was easy to sit in an editing suite and comment, without knowing the difficulties of putting such a project together. I thought that she was making a mountain out of a molehill and landed at my dad’s film set, confident that I could do everything he did. My plan was to be on set and call ‘action and cut’, but the first job he gave me was that of a directorial assistant and that too as third assistant. While he didn’t spell it out, he taught me the importance of doing everything from scratch to be able to succeed in life. He helped keep me grounded, but I was too young back then and didn’t think it was my cup of tea.
 The road ahead
 My big plan, thereafter, was to make short films with the help of my pals. My best buddy,  , and I set out to make one, for which we pooled in money. It was only when I started directing it that I realized that I do not know anything about the craft. I figured that it’s not only about knowing how to can great shots, but also about managing people and getting work out of them. It’s a different ballgame. It finally dawned on me that I could not do it without the right learning, so I went back to my dad and told him that I wanted to study the art, for which I headed to the New York Film Academy. I got far from a red carpet welcome when I came back to India. There were no projects that my father had lined up for, instead, I had to do the rounds of meeting producers. I had a lot of narrations. Three of my films were announced, but none of them took off. I was quite disappointed. Luckily, I had started doing corporate films by then, so I decided to focus on that, as I thought my film career would go nowhere. Then, one day, a friend of mine, who is a casting  , called me to fill in as an actor for an ad, as the guy who was to do it didn’t turn up. I found it quite funny, as all my roles in my dad’s films have also been like that — if someone isn’t on set, get Pannaga to do it. The ad was well received, after which Prajwal (Devaraj) called me and asked me to be a part of one of his films. I did a couple more films with him and was just going with the flow. I wondered if I was destined to be a character artiste or if I would ever come back to filmmaking, so I began writing scripts in my freetime.
 Happy New Year gets greenlighted
 When I eventually thought it was time to turn director, I was armed with a handful of scripts. I was quite keen on making Happy New Year, as it was an anthology of five tales. At first I thought I would produce it myself, but then it so happened that actor BC Patil dropped by to meet my dad. Since he was busy, I was asked to keep Patil sir entertained, so I struck up a conversation, which also included one-liners of most of my scripts. Every time I finished one, he asked me if I had any more, and it was only when we got to the brief of Happy New Year that he was well and truly intrigued. He not only came onboard as actor, but also promised to produce it. I am glad that he liked this script and not the others, as those were more run-of-the-mill subjects. This film offered me a lot of challenges to prove myself as a director and I look forward to more such.
 
 
 
