JAIPUR:   will contest all elections—Centre and states—under the leaderships of  ,   in-charge of   said on Sunday. The new in-charge, who has succeeded  , addressed the Pradesh Congress Committee’s executive committee meeting, attended by top Congressmen from the state.

 “Rahul Gandhi is the biggest threat to BJP. Maximum stones are thrown at the tree that bears the most fruits,” Pande said, referring to the ruling party’s attacks on the Congress vice-president. Talking to reporters after the meeting, Pande said, “RSS and BJP’s policy has been to malign individual’s image, mislead people and spread rumours. They have been busy dividing the country much before independence, be it in the name of Hindu Mahasabha or Hindu Rashtra. They have not changed a bit even today.”
 
 During the meeting, some Congressmen expressed anguish at the party’s ‘weak social media’ that lacked in countering BJP and its associated organizations’ attacks on senior leaders and previous Congress governments. It was stressed that Congress’s contributions in the country’s growth were not being communicated effectively.
 
 “Congress needs to aggressively propagate Gandhian philosophy and the party ideology to counter the BJP propaganda,” Pande said, on being asked what suggestions the party leaders made at the meeting.
 
 Congress state president Sachin Pilot said the party would continue to respond with decency to the ruling party’s anti-people actions and policies. “We have forced them to keep MGNREGA and social pensions schemes going. It is because of Congress workers’ protests in the streets that the ruling party is continuing welfare schemes launched by our previous governments,” Pilot said.
 
 Former chief minister Ashok Gehlot said never before were the people as disappointed with a ruling party as they were under the present BJP governments in the Centre and the states.   general secretary C P Joshi stressed on the need to use social media to counter BJP and RSS. Besides the state’s senior leaders, the meeting was attended by newly appointed AICC secretaries Vivek Bansal, Quazi Nizamuddin, Devender Yadav and Tarun Kumar.
 
