NEW DELHI: In its ongoing crackdown against suspected money laundering by some cooperative banks, officials of the income tax department surveyed two cooperative banks in Delhi where deposits of at least Rs 150 crore were made post-demonetisation, mostly in dormant accounts and accounts of shell companies. The shell companies have drivers and clerical staff serving as directors. 

 The employees were unaware of the money laundering operations, according to the I-T investigation. Some of these shell companies were also used by a leading corporate house to transfer their non-performing assets (NPAs) and clean balance sheets. The modus operandi was to pay the accused cash, which he deposited in accounts of his shell companies and used to pay the corporates to buy their NPAs. A leading corporate house used such transfer of NPAs to enable it to take further bank loans. In a different case, I-T officials questioned the CEO of  , situated at   in Delhi, on Thursday, and found that the bank had received cash deposits of Rs 125 crore, postdemonetisation. The scrutiny of accounts revealed deposits were also made in 2,600 new and dormant accounts. 
 
 Earlier, the I-T officials had found at least 70 shell companies during a search and survey operation last week at the cooperative  , at its   and   branches. A search was carried out at the premises of the main accused who operated these shell companies. When he failed to explain the source of cash deposits of Rs 13.5 crore made in the accounts of two companies post-demonetisation, I-T officials froze his total deposits of Rs 24 crore. The accused was also found to have two bank accounts in Singapore. The accused later told I-T officials that he had been running a number of paper entities with registered offices in Delhi and Mumbai. “Most of these companies are merely lending funds to each other and are engaging in layering of funds through bank account transfers in order to mask the real source of funds and evade taxes,” according to the I-T probe. The money in these shell companies was further transferred to the accounts of various companies and individuals, layering the transactions to make it difficult for the investigative agency to identify the actual beneficiary.
 
