MUNGER: A noted musician and singer of the area was arrested on Thursday for allegedly making Rs 5 lakh extortion call to one  , a trader of Jalalabad area under Asarganj police station, on January 5. 

 When produced before   in the presence of media persons, no one believed that Pinkoo Upadhaya alias Sachidanand Upadhyay of Asarganj bazar under Asarganj police station of the district was the best singer and musician and director of an orchestra team. Even the SP could not believe it and asked Pinkoo to sing one of his best songs. Pinkoo did not hesitate for a moment and kept everyone present spellbound with his melodious voice.
 
 The SP said Laheri had received a call on his mobile phone on January 5. The caller identified himself as Munna and demanded Rs5 lakh as extortion money. Laheri did not inform the police out of fear. On Wednesday, Laheri received a fresh call with threat to face the consequences of not obliging the caller. The SP said Laheri again did not inform the police, which got a tip-off that Pinkoo had asked one person to lob a powerful bomb on Laheri’s hardware shop on Wednesday. The police laid a trap, but the person assigned to lob a bomb managed to escape.
 
 The police, however, got the call details of Laheri and tracked down the kingpin and raided a small house at Ishakchak in Bhagalpur and spotted the person who had made the extortion calls. He was Pinkoo. Deepak Upadhyay of Tarapur, who is his uncle, was also arrested. They were staying there at a rented house and involved in extortion, loot and murder, the police said.
 
 The SP said Pinkoo had come out of jail only a few months back and he was wanted in two separate cases of murder and extortion committed in Asarganj area in Bhagalpur district. “Both the Upadhyays were doing roaring business by performing music and songs through orchestra party, but even then they were committing crimes,” the SP said.
 
 The SP said Pinkoo confessed to his involvement in the crime and admitted that he used at least 40 sim cards for making extortion calls. Every time after using a sim, he destroyed it and purchased another one to make another extortion call, the SP said.
 
