PATNA: The Patna high court (HC) on Wednesday expressed its displeasure over state DGP P K Thakur’s “clean chit” to police for the arrest of former   Dr G K Singh, terming an inquiry report of the DGP as “an eyewash”.

 According to Dr Singh’s counsel Binay Pandey, a division bench comprising Justice Navaniti Prasad and Justice Vikas Jain even questioned the DGP’s “competence” to probe the episode after he submitted in the inquiry report that the arrest was made in accordance with the law.
 
 Dr Singh was arrested on November 14 last year. Earlier, an   was lodged against him by a student under the   and ST (Prevention Of Atrocities) Act on October 22 last year. Dr Singh was arrested despite a lower court’s stay on November 3 on any coercive action against him till further orders.
 
 Advocate Pandey told TOI despite the court’s protection to Dr Singh, the case IO (investigating officer) on November 8 moved the court seeking warrant of arrest against him. The IO’s plea was, however, rejected. Yet the IO arrested him soon after Dr Singh landed in Patna to attend a farewell function at  , the lawyer said.
 
 Later in response to a contempt petition of Dr Singh, the HC asked the DGP to conduct an inquiry. The DGP, in turn, assigned the probe to   Preeta Verma.
 
 IO Kamlesh Singh, who along with DIG-CID Vinod Chaudhary and SC/ST police station SHO Ramshobhit is facing criminal contempt, has been quoted in the inquiry report as saying that he arrested Dr Singh on the orders of IG (weaker sections) Anil Kishore Yadav. The IG, on his part, told the probing authority that he was not aware of the court’s protection to Dr Singh and that he was arrested without warrant because warrant was not required to arrest any SC-ST Act accused.
 
 Lawyer Pandey, however, told the HC on Wednesday the IO was present in the lower court when it ordered “no coercive action” against Dr Singh. It was also brought to the HC’s notice that Dr Singh, after the lodging of the FIR, had in a representation to the DGP feared vindictiveness and requested the DGP to keep the IG off the case. 
 
 IG Yadav was formerly posted as the deputy director (administration) of AIIMS. 
 
 The HC on Wednesday also asked state counsel Anjani Kumar, who represented the DGP, if the complainant’s accusation was found prima facie true, why no action was taken against co-accused Dr P P Gupta, who lives very much in Patna.
 
 The case will be heard again on January 2. 
 
 
