HYDERABAD: Twenty-four hours before the clarion call to capture Dharna Chowk, the man in the vanguard of the campaign, Prof Kodandaram, has gone underground along with colleagues. The 'Chalo  ' movement on Monday has the tacit support of opposition BJP, Congress and Telugu Desam Party. 

 Mobile phones of Kodandaram and other TJAC leaders were in switch-off mode on Sunday, with sources telling TOI that the professor and his comrades have shifted base to an unknown location to avert a midnight swoop by police. They are expected to emerge at Indira Park on Monday morning to lead the campaign to reclaim the rally ground. Earlier, the TRS government launched a crackdown on a rally by unemployed youth and took Kodandaram into custody. The TJAC wants to beat the government in its game this time. 
 
 Leaders from Opposition parties said the sudden demand by colony associations to shift Dharna Chowk is a sponsored counter-offensive by the ruling party to scuttle the campaign by Dharna Chowk Protection Committee and TJAC.
 
 Hyderabad Police commissioner M   told to TOI that TJAC had not applied for permission with the city police to hold protests at the site. "We are yet to take a call on whether to allow them to hold their programme," he said. On Sunday, large posse of policemen were deployed at Indira Park, Dharna Chowk and NTR Stadium, giving credence to TJAC leaders' apprehensions that government is making every bid to foil the 'Capture Dharna Chowk' programme. 
 
 BJP MLA NVSS Prabhakar said it should understood that "We are the voice of the people. If this is muzzled, it is not in the interests of the people".
 
 Congress (TPCC) president N Uttam Kumar Reddy said, it is unfortunate that there are more restrictions on peaceful and democratic protests in the new state of   than other states. Few years ago, dharnas used to be allowed even opposite Secretariat, following which a decision was taken to have a single designated protest venue.
 
 "It appears CM KCR feels his administration has not been able to deliver the goods. Hence, he is resorting to dictatorial methods to crush dissent. We are not living in Pakistan. India has a democratic tradition. KCR himself said he would stage dharna at Jantar Mantar in Delhi if Centre fails to pass Muslim reservation bill. When he wants a venue to stage a protest, why is he against Dharna Chowk," said Uttam.
 
 TDP working president A Ravenath Reddy said KCR himself had risen through the Telangana agitation from Dharna Chowk. "He visited Dharna Chowk on several occasions to extend support to protesting contract employees and others. Dharna Chowk is centrally located and delegation of protestors can easily submit memorandum. It's a venue for poor people to raise their concerns and grievances," asked Revanth Reddy.
 
