PUNE: A minor released from a correctional facility two months ago was picked up by police again on Thursday for his alleged involvement in  .

 The 17-year-old college student took advantage of being a minor under law and began burgling houses immediately after he was released from the facility in December last year. He broke into two houses in Dhayari and made away with goods worth about Rs 1.2 lakh.
 
 When he was on his way to burgle another house in the same area on Thursday, the Sinhagad Road police detained him. An iron rod and gold ornaments were recovered from him. 
 
 “The boy was sent to a   and today (on Friday) he is once again out on bail,” said  , sub-inspector of Sinhagad Road police.
 
 The minor is a Standard XI student at a city-based college. His father runs a garage, while his mother is a homemaker. The boy, originally from Kothrud, had entered a world of crime driven by an urge to become a local ‘bhai’ or gangster. He began by stealing laptops and cell phones from the students of his college. He had also started carrying a countrymade pistol with him. The Sinhagad Road police on December 19 last year detained him, when he tried to sell a stolen motorcycle worth Rs 2.5 lakh on an online sales platform.
 
 On Thursday, police constables Dayanand Telange-Patil and Datta Sonawane were patrolling Sinhagad Road, when they noticed the boy with a sack. “Seeing the policemen, the boy started to flee. The duo detained him after a hot chase. When the police checked his sack, they found an iron rod and gold ornaments hidden under a book,” Sonawane said.
 
 According to the police, the boy was brought to the police station. During interrogation, the boy revealed that he was on his way to commit another burglary. “He also admitted that after his released from the correctional home, he had broken into two houses and stole gold ornaments and cash,” he said, adding, “The boy had spent the cash on merry making and was trying to sell the stolen ornaments.”
 
 An officer from the Sinhagad Road police station said, “We are keeping a close watch on him. When our team visited his house, his parents said that the boy regularly attends college,” the officer said.
 
 Modus of the boy
 
 Sonawane said every day the boy would leave the house under the pretext of going to the college. However, he used to carry out a recce of the buildings on Sinhagad Road. “After noticing a locked flat, he would break in and steal valuables,” Sonawane said.
 
 The boy was doing it all alone. “He would break into the houses during the day as most flat owners would be at work,” Sonawane said.
 
 
