Chandigarh:   are nominated so that they can give their expert advice in the running of municipal corporation and for the betterment of city. They are not nominated just to take part in the election of mayor and indulge in vote politics. These were the observations made by The Punjab and Haryana high court in a case related to voting rights of nominated councillors in Chandigarh MC. There are 26 elected and nine nominated councillors in the corporation.

 The MC, however, justified and stated that though the voting rights of nominated councillors had not been provided under the Constitution but the President could give certain exemptions to centrally administrated states and Chandigarh being UT had this special status. The administration also stated that the administration was given these powers to give voting rights to nominate councillors as per a letter issued by the President in 1994.
 
 Advocate H C Arora submitted that such a voting right to nominated councillors amounts to hijacking the mandate of voters, which could be defeated by the nine persons nominated by the UT administrator. He argued that nominated members of the MC could not be permitted to cast their votes in the House meetings.
 
 Senior standing counsel for UT Administration Suvil Sehgal argued that provisions of the legislation could not be challenged through a PIL. As a matter of last resort, he argued that Allahabad high court had held in a judgment that nominated members could participate in the election of a mayor, though they could not cast their vote in other meetings of the MC. However, this was strongly opposed by Arora. 
 
  The petitioners have challenged the provisions of Section 4(3)(ii) of the Punjab Municipal Corporations Act, 1976, as extended to UT Chandigarh, which entitles nominated councillors to cast their vote in the meetings of the MC. According to the petitioners, the aforesaid provisions are contrary to those contained in Article 243-R of the Constitution, which mandate that nominated members of municipalities shall not have any right to vote in the meetings of such municipalities.
 
 
