PUNE: Commuters using the Dengle bridge near the   would have to take a detour from February for about a month-and-a-half as it would be closed for  .

 The repair of its surface is expected to start around the first week of February. “We have sought permission from the traffic police department to close the bridge. The work will start as soon as we get the permission,” Shrinivas Bonala, the traffic planner of Pune Municipal Corporation told TOI.
 
 According to the PMC’s plan, new bearings would be placed under the bridge surface. After the tarred portion of the bridge is dismantled, its remaining part would be lifted using hydraulic jacks.
 
 “The entire process will take around one-and-a-half months. No traffic will be allowed on it during that period. The exact timetable of the work will be published in February,” Bonala said.
 
 A group of elected members had demanded in October 2015 a ban on the movement of heavy vehicles on the bridge, stressing that it might not be strong enough structurally to handle their burden.
 
 “The bridge was built for the movement of smaller vehicles like bullock carts, tongas and bicycles. But heavy vehicles like buses and trucks are plying over it now. The bridge cannot bear the weight of these vehicles,” they had stated.
 
 A   had studied the bridge and submitted a report on its capacity. According to the report, the bridge had a low footing thickness, thereby posing a threat to the users. Accordingly, the consultant recommended that heavy vehicles should be banned on the bridge.
 
 The Dengle bridge across the Mutha connects the Pune district court to Juna Bazaar (Mangalwar Peth). Constructed in 1970, it is one of the 10 bridges PMC selected for renovation after the Mahad bridge collapse in August 2016.
 
 After inspecting the bridge, a team comprising PMC officials and elected members decided to either repair the structure or build a new bridge as its replacement. It was estimated that a new bridge would cost Rs30 crore, while the repair cost of the existing bridge would be around Rs 4 crore.
 
