SHIMLA:   chief minister   has once again accused BJP of playing divisive politics. While addressing the concluding function of ‘Sankalp Diwas’ organized by Youth Congress in Mandi, he said that BJP always believe in divisive politics and whenever elections are round the corner, it tries to divide people on the basis of region and religion.

 Virbhadra Singh said that people should not fall prey to the propaganda of BJP as its leaders do less and speak more. He said that on Monday there was a need to stand united and work together for a change. He said that BJP is an offshoot of Jansangh and is not a true benefactor of people of the state and can never be practical and think about the welfare of people.
 
 He claimed that Congress party has always believed in discipline and unlike BJP, which was struggling for their leadership in Himachal Pradesh, Congress believes in development. “I have never seen politics stoop ever low where instead of healthy politics, BJP was massively involved in mudslinging,” he added.
 
 Terming BJP’s “Parivartan Rathyatra" a flop show, he said that there was a competition amongst BJP leaders to sit in the “so called Rath”. He said doing such type of yatra won't benefit them as one need to go to people and discuss their problem at grass root level.
 
 “Hardly one can find any crowd behind their Rath,” he added.   Singh said that her has made such an impact on the minds of BJP leaders that all the tall leaders from country had gathered in the state to oppose him. “Rather it seems that they feel my presence around them all the times and I keep haunting them day and night,” he added.
 
 He said that tall claims and false promises of BJP and NDA alliance have fallen flat and every Himachali, rather the people of country now well understand their modus-operandi. He said that BJP leaders should learn decency from former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, who ruled the country like a gentlemen and kept the spirit of healthy politics alive.
 
 Virbhadra Singh said that today all the three central investigating agencies were probing his single case of income tax. He said that he had the right to fight his cases when the central BJP leaders in connivance with few state BJP leaders were framing false cases against him.
 
 He said that it is pathetic that a single case of his Income tax returns was being probed by CBI, Income Tax and the Enforcement Directorate at the same time. He said that he had never witnessed such a thing. “Three agencies were after me, but I firmly believe that truth will prevail in the end,” he added.
 
 He said that new generation would be given a chance to come forward in politics and no one should feel bad about it. They should learn from the experience of their predecessors as they have an important role to play in politics of the country, he said.
 
