KOLKATA: Union HRD minister   on Saturday said the   (RTE) Act would be amended in the ongoing session of Parliament to allow schools to keep back students in classes V and VIII from the 2018-2019 academic session. Students who fail in the annual examination will be all-owed to appear for a re-test and will be detained if they fail to clear that as well.

 The amendment, which was first spoken about earlier this year, drew immediate criticism from state education minister  , who called it an “attempt to saffronise education” as the changes were not discussed with state governments despite education being on the concurrent list.
 
 “They have not yet sent us the draft bill. Why should we accept their decision? The amendment, after being tabled in Parliament, will have to be tabled in the assembly as well. We’ll ref-rain from passing it if we have issues,” Chatterjee said. “We have agreed to do away with the no-detention policy but we have not agreed to the decision to det-ain students only in classes V and VIII. Earlier, they had shown interest to re-introduce the pass-fail system from class I. They themselves have no fixed policy in mind,” he added.
 
 Javadekar’s announcement came at a seminar, “Way Forward for Education Sector in the Eastern Region: Challenges and Recommendations”, organised by the Indian Chamber of Commerce.
 
 “We would want to keep the   system in classes V and VIII. Students will take the annual examination in March, failing which they will be given an opportunity to write the re-examination in May. However, if they do not manage to secure the pass grades in the re-test as well, they will have to repeat class,” he said, adding that the change would be effective from the 2018-2019 academic year itself. Twenty-five states have already assented to the detention policy. “This will make the system more accountable. We will not compromise on the quality of education. There has to be a genuine assessment of teaching and learning,” the union HRD minister said. Schools now have examinations to evaluate students but cannot detain them till class VIII.
 
 A senior school education department official said   would adopt a wait-and-watch policy. “We are not yet clear if it will be binding for us to follow the centre’s decision and detain students only in classes V and VIII. Our government is of the view that the detention system should be in place from class V onwards. Detention should be there in every class after V,” he explained.
 
 State education minister Chatterjee had sent a letter to the MHRD, asking it to clarify its stand. “I am still waiting for a response. Instead of making announcements to the media, I would request the HRD minister to give me a response,” he said. “The introduction of the no-detention system has resulted in a lowering of the standard of basic education, something on which we have never compromised till now. Bengal has already suffered immensely because of the previous Left Front government's decision to discontinue English in primary classes, which they had to reintroduce later. We do not want any further deterioration of standards,” he said.
 
 The government, however, does not want the number of school dropouts to increase. This would mean a complete failure of the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan scheme, Chatterjee felt. “So we would be happy to take retest after conducting remedial classes,” a state school education department official said.
 
 
