PANAJI: The state public transport,   (KTCL) has often received flak for its poor service. Yet, day-after-day, optionless citizens are forced to avail it. While the KTCL is far from providing a pleasant travel experience for its thousands of daily commuters, the depots are no Shangri-La for its staff either.

 Recounting her experience with the KTCL service, Colva-based Rochelle Pinto said she would leave home at 7.30am and reach Panaji after 9.30am. The reason: serpentine queues at Margao bus stand’s KTCL shuttle service counter. Having lost her patience overtime, she has now resorted to using private buses that bring her to the capital city within an hour.
 
 The situation is the same between 6-7pm at the Panaji bus stand when the crowd returns to Margao. Pinto said she sometimes deliberately delays her work in Panaji so as to take a bus after 7pm. “Instead of cashing in on the demand for shuttle service, KTCL’s attitude is very lackadaisical, unfortunately. It shouldn’t be called non-stop anymore,” she said.
 
 Zelia Rodrigues from Chicalim said, “We usually have to wait a while for the next bus to depart, since the time gap between departures is too long.”
 
 For Clarissa D’cruz from Salvador do Mundo the non-punctuality of these buses poses a problem. “The long buses sometimes get stuck in traffic, which messes up with the timings of other buses in-line. But, as a citizen, this affects me because I never end up reaching on time.”
 
 KTCL sources said that during peak hours, their long buses mostly get stuck in traffic between Bambolim and the Panaji bus stand. This journey of less than ten minutes therefore lasts for over half an hour, the sources added.
 
 “This shall hopefully be resolved once the new bridge is complete,” said KTCL Panaji depot manager, Anil Vengurlekar.
 
 Conditions for KTCL’s workers aren’t any better. In Panaji, they have access to four resting rooms, which 50-100 drivers, conductors and ticket collectors visit per day. The shabby state of the resting rooms has left many of them distressed.
 
 Driver Gaurish Naik said, “We don’t get peaceful sleep due to the mosquitoes and cockroaches,” who added that they have to sleep on floor since there are no beds in the resting room.
 
 “Our toilets are dirty and infested with rats,” said conductor Kusumkar Ghatwal. 
 
 M Madgavkar (name changed) from the Margao depot said, “We have a resting room, but no proper toilets. The flush doesn't work. During the raining season the resting room gets flooded,” and added that they too have to sleep on the floor.
 
 Assuring improvement in conditions, general manager KTCL, S L Ghate said, “We will be renovating the Panaji and Margao resting rooms by March-end, the estimate for which is Rs 9 lakh and Rs 7 lakh, respectively. The work will be completed prior to commencement of the monsoon season.”
 
 On the other issues, he said, “Due to the long queues we have added 7-8 buses in Panaji’s shuttle fleet, but these return empty from Margao. Similarly, in Margao, we have added 13 buses, which return empty from Panaji. This is because there is no passenger flow from Panaji after 10.30am and from Margao after 5.30pm. Travelling 30kms sans commuters results in a loss of Rs 900-1,200 per trip. Adding more buses will not be profitable for the KTCL.”
 
