Doctors are often perceived as keeping patients in the intensive care unit (ICU) for as long as they can to push up the bill, but several doctors from across the country have come together to fight for the patient's right to refuse ICU care and other aggressive modes of treatment, especially as part of end-of-life care. 

 These doctors, including neurologists and critical and palliative care specialists, are working with the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) on defining various terms used in end-of-life care, such as withdrawal and withholding of life support, 'Do Not Resuscitate' (DNR) and 'Advance Will Directive'. 
 
  The doctors came together with citizens from various walks of life to draft a declaration on end-of-life care at a meeting in Mathura on April 30. The resolution aims to promote palliative care and end-of-life care to those who are terminally ill and dying. It brought together a multi-disciplinary medical association called End of   (ELICIT) and a newly formed citizens group called Citizens' Action Needed for Dignity in Death (CANDID). 
 
 "Th is advocacy is found to be necessary against the backdrop of inadequate awareness among the public, care providers and policy makers of the complex issues around compassionate and appropriate care of the terminally ill and dying persons that impact every citizen's life. Palliative and end-of-life care is about appropriate transitioning from disease-oriented care to symptom management, ensuring comfort in the dying phase," stated the declaration. 
 
 It said that quality of life, guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution to every citizen, should be upheld even at the end of life and that palliative and end-of-life care were important means to ensure this. It pointed out that India was ranked 67 out of 80 countries in the Quality of Death Index based on a survey conducted by The  .
 
  Welcoming the government's effort to address the issue through the draft Medical Treatment of Terminally-Ill Patients (Protection of Patients and  ) Bill, 2016, the declaration called upon all stakeholders to help build a consensus for a national framework for improving palliative and end-of-life care. 
 
 "The complex and sensitive issues around care of the dying need careful discussion. Unfortunately, all discussions in India have been reduced to opinions around euthanasia. Terminology around treatment limitation in the context of end-of-life care has evolved greatly in the world. Against this background, to facilitate discussions and eventually to formulate guidelines, the ICMR has taken the initiative to convene a task force to provide definitions in keeping with contemporary concepts of the various terms used. The updated terminology will be forwarded to the health ministry for developing the draft bill," explained  , senior critical care specialist.
 
 
