NEW DELHI: Observing that   police should have acted sensibly in the Banaras Hindu University incident as the matter was related to dignity of a woman, the National Human Rights Commission has issued notices to the state chief secretary,   and Vice Chancellor of BHU.

 The NHRC has taken suo motu cognizance of alleged inaction by the authorities of the Banaras Hindu University into a complaint of eve-teasing and subsequent use of unwarranted manhandling and thrashing of agitating students, mostly women, by the UP police.
 
 The Commission has asked the state government, police chief and vice chancellor to provide details of action taken against the miscreants and precautionary measures taken to ensure that such incidents do not recur in future.
 
 It has observed that the incident is indicative of lapses on the part of the university authorities including the security guards, who instead of taking a quick action into the complaint of eve-teasing, allegedly, indulged in sarcastic comments towards the victim girl.
 
 “The students were raising their protest towards the incident of eve-teasing and inaction by the security guards and in return, they were subjected to inhuman treatment by the police personnel, which amount to violation of human rights of the students,” NHRC said in a statement.
 
 NHRC adds that “the university authorities should have acted sensibly as the matter related to the dignity of a woman”, and “police authorities resorted to rather harsh steps than the situation, perhaps, warranted”.
 
 A girl student of the arts faculty in the BHU was, allegedly, subjected to eve-teasing by three men on a motorcycle, inside the university campus, as she was returning to her hostel around 6.20 pm on September 21. The miscreants, reportedly, abused and fled, when she resisted their attempts. The security guards, as alleged by the girl student, were about 100 meters away from the place of incident but did nothing to stop them; and when the matter was brought to the notice of the Hostel Warden, she instead of taking up the issue with the superiors, asked the girl why was she returning late to the hostel.
 
 “Reportedly, the response angered the student’s colleagues who sat on a Dharna at the main gate of the university. The students were demanding round-the-clock security, making security personnel accountable for untoward incidents targeting girls, adequate lighting on roads to girl’s hostel, CCTV network and proper checking at the gates including the recruitment of women security guards and a gender sensitization panel. The students tried to meet the Vice-Chancellor but they were not allowed. The students, mostly women, were allegedly, mercilessly beaten up by the police,” NHRC said.
 
 The students have complained that they have to face eve-teasers inside the campus regularly and the administration is not taking any action to stop the miscreants. The police authorities have stated that a large number of police personnel have been deployed near the campus as a security precaution. In a statement, the BHU authorities have mentioned that the “dharna” by the students just a day before the Prime Minister’s visit, was politically motivated to malign the image of the university.
 
