PUNE: The Kondhwa police have arrested three members of the Feroz Bangali gang from Ahmedabad and have invoked provisions under the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act against them. 

 One of these gangsters   (47) was earlier arrested by the police, but had jumped bail granted by a city court. The court on April 18 had cancelled Shaikh’s bail, who was the only suspect arrested on a plea filed by the police that he was booked under the  . 
 
 A police team under the guidance of Ravindra Rasal, assistant commissioner of police (Wanowrie division), took help of Gujarat police in arresting Shaikh and his accomplices   (27) and   (35) from their hideout in Ahmedabad on April 29. A house search there led to the recovery of 12 cellphones. A special court has remanded them in police custody till May 9. 
 
 The gang members told police that they had escaped to Hyderabad and from there they shifted to Aurangabad and later to Ahmedabad fearing arrest. 
 
 The Kondhwa police on March 27 had arrested Shaikh and booked two of his accomplices for allegedly demanding Rs 5 lakh from a builder. Shaikh’s accomplices had visited the builder a week ago in   where one of his projects is going on. 
 
 Police said after introducing themselves as members of the Bangali gang, the duo had asked the builder as to why he had not met their leader, Shaikh’s brother, before starting the construction work. They left only after the builder assured them of speaking to their leader.
 
 According to the police, the builder narrated the entire incident to his elder brother who called up Shaikh’s brother and appealed to him to allow his younger brother to continue with the construction work.
 
 In his complaint the builder had stated that Shaikh’s brother demanded money for allowing him to complete the construction work since he had not taken him into confidence before starting the project. He had also threatened to stop the work if his demand was not met.
 
 “Around 2.30pm on March 26, the suspects arrived at the construction site and threatened the employees. The workers fled after the trio forced them to stop the work,” the builder had stated in his complaint to the police. 
 
 The complaint read that the suspects demanded Rs 5 lakh and a flat from the builder to allow him to continue with the construction activity. “They threatened to kill the builder if their demand was not met,” the complaint had stated.
 
