GURUGRAM: The daily regimen of  , a 30-something mother from Golf Course road, is normally wedged between tending to household chores and looking after her children. At times, she would walk into glitzy Gurugram malls and get the weekend well spent. But on Saturday, she was swinging golf club while few fellow mothers tried showing her the ropes.

 "This is new thing for me," she giggles. "I am trying my hand on this. It’s fun!"
 
 Malhotra is among the 100 odd moms from Gurugram who took time off their hectic daily schedule to stretch out muscles and have a ball playing squash, badminton, archery and even shooting at first-of-its-kind   at   in Sector 70.
 
 "I got to know about this through word of mouth," she said. "One of my friends attended this last year as well. We go to malls and multiplexes on every weekend. Today I decided trying this."
 
 The event was brainchild of   which started as a resource sharing Facebook group becoming a full-fledged umbrella organisation to assist the need-stricken mothers across Gurugram.
 
 On Saturday though, flocks of them converged a rain-whipped ground of Kunskapsskolan International, braving the morning chill and exulting in the "un-momly" stuff.
 
 While some of them flicked their golf clubs, others tried their skills at archery. Few sent the squash balls ricocheting off walls while many locked horns during grappling.
 
 "Normally I am busy at office but this day is exhilarating," said Pooja Khedia a participant. "It benefits because you have so much fun to do with other moms while your kids are engaged in drawing inside."
 
 "The idea is to shun the stereotype of a mother clad in a bib all the day while busying herself with one thing or the other," said Neela Kaushik, founder The Gurgaonmoms.com. "We started off as the social media group that connects mothers who are in need. For instance for a south Indian mother requires South Indian food or for a housewife needing a job, we act as a self-help group."
 
 Kaushik said indulging in a sports activity on a regular basis can help moms with their fitness goals. "Team sports can help them find friends and reduce stress. It can even help battle depression. It's a great confidence booster. More importantly, she can inspire her kids," she said.
 
