Nagpur: A day after Janmanch’s public audit of the newly constructed cement road on West High Court (WHC) Road exposed poor quality of work by the contractor, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has started to replace damaged paver blocks (inter-locking tiles). Also, the civic body has sought New Delhi-based Central Road Research Institute’s (CRRI) help for third party quality control audit of all cement roads in the city. NMC executive engineer Mahesh Gupta told TOI that the private contractor JP Enterprises was set to replace the paver blocks a few days ago. “We had issued a notice to the contractor,” he said. Refuting allegations of inferior quality of work, Rajan Shah of JP Enterprises said only one lot of paver blocks was not up to the mark. “The ones laid on the stretch between MLA Hostel Square and Jawahar Hall were procured and laid in hurry so that the road could be opened for the winter session in December last year,” he said, adding, “We will replace all damaged blocks.” Shah added cracks on the road were very few and a “normal phenomenon on cement roads”. “We are constructing cement roads since the last 27 years. Those done by us in city in 1997-99 are still in good condition,” he said. He claimed that the roads being constructed in Nagpur are much better than “Mumbai, Pune, Jabalpur and Dhamangaon where too we have worked”. “The NMC asked us for high grade M-45 concrete while other civic bodies go for M-40. We are using top technology and material,” said Shah. According to him, “all tests conducted by Geotech Services (quality consultant) and NMC have been found satisfactory”. The NMC has engaged VNIT as design consultant. Janmanch president Anil Killor, who is also the president of High Court Bar Association, said the stretch where paver blocks have been replaced should be concretized. “The construction of a bridge over a nullah is pending and hence paver blocks have been temporarily laid. Cement should be laid after completion of works,” he said. NMC chief engineer Ulhas Debadwar said CRRI’s help will improve quality of work. “We wrote to CRRI two weeks ago. They would suggest if any changes need to be made,” he said. Killor said Janmanch should have a representation on the audit team. “We have an expert who has designed and constructed an airport runway,” he said. The NMC’s Rs324 crore cement concrete road project-II is facing a delay. Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis had approved the project in December 2014 and sanctioned funds in March 2015. The civic body consumed a lot of time for surveys and initiating the tendering process. Now, 12 of the total 22 packages have crossed the deadline of 11 months. The NMC is planning to give extension to all contractors. It is likely to end up fuelling the project’s cost. Debadwar said contractors will be fined for delay on their part. “We will give only 2-3 months extension,” he said. Deadline over for following packages: *Package-XI | Gurudeo Nagar Sq to Bhande Plot Sq to Chotta Tajbagh, Gurudeo Nagar to Ishwar Nagar Sq  *Package-IV | Japanese Garden Sq to Law College Sq and Laxmi Bhuvan Sq to Shankar Nagar Sq  *Package-VI | Rameshwari RTO Ambedkar Sq, Trisharan Sq to Pragati Colony, Balaji Nagar to Venu Corner, Bhagwan Nagar to Balaji Nagar *Package-IX | RPTS road to WHC road to Ajni Sq, Deekshabhoomi Sq to RPTS road, Zero Mile to DCP Traffic Office, RBI Sq to Bhavan’s School *Package-X | University Library Sq to Kalpana Building Sq, Panchsheel Sq to Humyard Road, Narendra Nagar RoB to Vivekananda Nagar Sq to Deo Nagar *Package-XVII | Old Bagadganj Road to Bhandara Road, Sunil Hotel to Telephone Exchange Sq  *Package-VIII | Sakkardara Lake to Dattatraya Nagar, Gajanan School to Uday Nagar to Mhalgi Nagar Sq  *Package-XII | Shastri Nagar to KDK College to Shrikrishna Nagar, Ashirwad Nagar, Hedgewar Gate to Gajanan Sq  *Package-XVIII | Old Bagadganj Road to Ambedkar Sq to Sudarshan Sq, Lakadganj Petrol Pump to Nagpur Nagrik Bank *Package-III | NMC Mahatma Gandhi School to LAD College Sq, Ambazari Tekdi Road, Gayatri Mandir Road to IT Park up to Ring Road *Package-XX | CMPDI to Bhim Sq to Patankar Sq, Mahatma Phule School to Ashok Sq, Panchpaoli police station to NIT office *Package-XIX | NIT office to Kamptee Road, Ten Number Puliya to Awale Sq