NEW DELHI: An unknown pencil portrait of Mahatma Gandhi, drawn from life and inscribed by Gandhi, is set to be offered at Sotheby's London sale on July 11, with an estimate of £8,000-12,000. 

  According to  , director of Sotheby's books and manuscripts department, Gandhi usually refused to sit for formal photographs, let alone a portraitist, making this an extremely rare portrayal of the political leader at work. The sketch shows Gandhi writing with a look of intense concentration whilst seated on the floor, and is inscribed by him with the words "Truth is God / MK Gandhi / 4.12.'31." 
 
  Speaking to TOI from London, Heaton added that the Gandhi portrait is one of the many portraits drawn by artist   Amshewitz (1882-1942) and is from the time when Gandhi was visiting London for the Round Table Conference in 1931 to discuss constitutional reforms in India. "We are very excited about the pencil portrait of Gandhi. It's a real find and has never been in the market. The portrait was sketch- ed live by the artist while Gandhi was writing a letter," said Heaton. 
 
  At the time of the portrait, Gandhi had stayed at  , a community centre in London's East End at the invitation of one of its founders,  , who had previously stayed in Gandhi's ashram. "Gandhi wanted to stay in the working part area of the city at the time of his visit, hence the portrait was done during his stay at Kingsley Hall," said Heaton. 
 
  This pencil portrait, which was inscribed by Gandhi the day before he left Kingsley Hall, was given to a local resident who was closely associated with the Hall. Apart from Gandhi's portrait, the July 11 London sale of Sotheby's also includes a collection of unpublished handwritten letters by Gandhi addressed to the Bose family, a prominent Indian political dynasty at the time. "These are six letters in lots and are handwritten," said Heaton. 
 
  The most important letters are addressed to Sarat Chandra Bose and include key comments on the partition of Bengal in the months before his assassination, providing a vivid impression of the intense political pressures that Gandhi faced in his final months. Dating from the mid-1940s, the other letters in the collection affirm Gandhi's continued love of the Bose family where he recalls his visits to their home in Calcutta and discusses the future development of India with Amiya Nath Bose, son of Sarat Chandra Bose. Together, these letters have a combined estimate of £23,000-33,000. 
 
 
