CHENNAI: Pepsico along with its competitor is facing the ire of a section of trade in Tamil Nadu, with the traders associations stopping the sale or forcing the retailers to stop sale on the products from March 1. After being ambushed, the cola giant is trying to get its game back in the state by engaging the retailers, even as it opens channels of communication with the traders body and with the government through Indian beverages Association. In a conversation with TOI, Shiv Shivakumar, chairman & CEO, India region, Pepsico speaks of the company’s stand on the issue and of a transformation in its portfolio. Excerpts:

 Q)What do you have to say on the whole uprising against Pepsi in Tamil Nadu with the retailers stopping the sale of Coke & Pepsi since March 1?
 
 First, we want to clarify that we have no association whatsoever with PeTA, which was a petitioner against the Jallikattu. We were surprised to find that we got dragged into the protests and that our products were asked to be banned.
 
 Q) What has been the effect of the ban on your sales or strategy towards the state?
 
 A) There has not been a major reduction in sale, while there have been instances of few retailers stopping orders. However, Tamil Nadu is an important market for us where we have investing for the last 27 years and we will continue to actively invest in the state. Our channel continues to remain the same.
 
 Q) There are allegations that you draw excessive water?
 
 I also would clarify that we return more water than we consume for manufacturing. We are water positive for the last eight years. On a national level, we have returned 12.75 billion litres in 2015, through various conservation and replenishment initiatives. In Tamil Nadu, we have returned close to 1.5 billion litres of water in 2015, with our water recharge, water rejuvenation and DSR initiatives. However, we have consumed only 1/3 of it.
 
 Q) Are you trying to alter the negative perception about the company that gained strength since the protests and the subsequent ban?
 
 We are working with the Indian Beverage Association. We are constantly trying to change the consumer and retailer perception and have so far. We have organised 10 retailer meets since the uprising. We have been educating them on the initiatives we take. They seem convinced are happy with the service we have provided so far.
 
 Q) With the Patanjali onslaught, there is an Ayurveda and herbal wave in the FMCG space. Are you tweaking your products to counter it?
 
 A) Our product portfolio is changing and we are betting big on the health consciousness of the urban nuclear families that are time strapped. In the soft drink segment, we have introduced a low sugar product. We are rolling out a new variant of 7UP that has 30% less sugar (using Stevia extract), in phases starting with Gujarat. For our Oats-based brand Quaker, we have introduced a whole line of Desi variants such as Oats upma, Poha, Dosa etc. They are priced at a 10-15% premium compared to MTR. However, with 40% oats content, the taste differs significantly from the remaining brands. Besides the shift towards healthy eating, we are also helping farmers by increasing our domestic supply of potatoes and citrus fruits for the beverage and snacks categories. Currently, 65% of our sourcing is done locally for fruits including pomegranate, litchi etc. The company will increase the supply of citrus fruits and potatoes as well.
 
 Q) What is your projection for the summer of 2017?
 
 Early trends show that this summer is going to be good. We predict a growth compared to last summer.
 
 
