JAIPUR:   suggests best practices to be followed in subordinate courts to reduce long   of over five to 10 years. It directs to make concrete plan be chalked out to ensure that cases older than 10 years or more, are disposed by December 31, 2017 and five to 10 years old are disposed of by September 30, 2018.

 Among the practices suggested are the preparation of list of five years or more old cases, under trial prisoners and priority case by all the subordinate courts. The presiding officer would make monthly review of this list and in bi-monthly meetings, progress of each court be assessed and difficulties, if any, in disposal be noted, solutions be suggested for making the mechanism more effective. However it said faster disposal should not cause injustice to litigating parties and quality must not be compromised in any condition for the sake of quantity.
 
 It said order sheets in all five years’ and more old cases be drawn by the presiding officers themselves and expeditious disposal of appeals pending for five years or more old cases. Cases in which accused persons are in judicial custody be kept under constant vigil and be disposed of on priority basis. In all such cases, where the accused is entitled for the benefit of Section 436A Cr.P.C.( Maximum period for which an under trial prisoner can be detained), it must be ensured that bail order is passed without any delay.
 
 Magistrate Trial and Sessions Trial of under-trial prisoners must be completed within six months and two years respectively. Cases related to marginalized persons such as women, senior citizen etc. be dealt with not only on priority but also with sensitivity. The dignity of these persons must be maintained. All the district judges must ensure that work in all courts is properly rationalized but it should not be done in mechanical manner. The object of rationalization should not be just to equal the number of cases but the stage and nature of cases must also be kept into consideration. Report of rationalization exercise be sent to high court, it said.
 
 The cases in which proceedings are stayed by the HC or other Appellate/Revisional Court, proceedings would not be adjourned in routine manner but on every date the presiding officer would check the status of stay order. This could be easily done online. List of held up cases be sent to the HC at the end of every quarter. Bi-monthly meetings of the judicial officers posted in the district on last Friday of concerned month after court hours to take up all general issues with special emphasis on work performance and steps taken for disposal of old cases. Minutes of bi-monthly meetings be placed before inspecting judge for perusal.
 
 
