CHANDIGARH: Two days after police found around 11 students from Chandigarh and   playing  , three more students from the same school were identified by the teachers. While two students were identified after their friends shared the information on Wednesday night, another student who claimed to have played 49 levels owned up on Thursday.

 Two students shared with the teachers that the link was being circulated among them in their groups.
 
 The school authorities said the boy who had played 49 levels showed himself to be very confident that he had survived all the 49 levels. However, as a precaution, his family was asked to keep an eye on him, as they felt he might be showing signs which are just the opposite.
 
 A source from the school said, “We were told by Karan’s father (the child who committed suicide) that he looked very normal and made plans for diwali and thereafter. Taking a clue from there, we thought that the curator might be telling them to behave normal and happy instead of being depressed. So we asked this boy’s brother and the area SHO to keep an extra watch on him so that he does not take any extreme step.”
 
 School principal said the boys owned up after the teachers conducted special speak-out sessions with them. Parenting by teachers sessions have also been going on from Tuesday. The students are also being counselled by counsellors
 
 “Our coordinators and class-in-charges interacted with the students to know whether they were into playing the Blue Whale game or not. It helped identify two more students who have played two levels of the game. Around 1pm another student came into the notice of the school authorities who claimed to have played 49 levels the game,” said the school principal Vibha Ray.
 
 In-charge of cyber crime, cyber cell, Chandigarh police   met the students (who had played two levels) to gain further information about the game. He also delivered a short lecture on cyber safety with regard to Blue Whale game to the staffers.
 
 Blue Whale in child’s phone? Take it away
 
 If a parent finds Blue Whale game in his or her child’s phone, he or she should confiscate the phone and hand it over to police immediately without switching it off or putting it on flight mode, says Chandigarh Police.
 
