NEW DELHI: The All India Muslim Personal Law Board has opposed the implementation of   (UCC). A delegation of over a dozen members of the board met   chairman justice (retd) BS Chauhan on Thursday.
 
  The delegation told the chairman that the board was vehemently opposed to the code. In a meeting which lasted for a little over than 10 minutes, the board members kept reiterating their opposition to the UCC. Chauhan told the board members that the commission was still examining the uniform civil code and its feasibility in the Indian society.
  
  “The board members claimed that they have thousands of copies signed by various Muslim outfits and people opposing the code,” persons privy to the development told ET. ET has also reliably learnt that the board has already sent several signed copies of the proforma prepared by it. The one-page proforma prepared by the board has signatures from different Muslim outfits against the UCC.
  
  
 
  It is pertinent to mention here that this is the first meeting of the board members with the chairman after the Modi government referred the contentious issue of uniform civil code to the Law Commission.
  
  Despite the commission clearly suggesting that it was too premature to oppose the code since its definition and feasibility was being explored by inviting views, the board members refused to accept the argument. The board, right from the beginning, had decided to oppose the move. The board had also declared that it would boycott the stakeholder engagement questionnaire on the code released by the commission last October. In its press conference, the board had taken the argument that “uniform civil code is not good for this nation.
  
  There are so many cultures in this nation, they have to be respected”. One of the spokespersons of the   had then said: “The intention of the Law Commission seems to be very clear and the kind of questionnaire they have prepared, a fair discussion was not possible. We do not want any change in our personal laws.
  
  Personal laws of Muslims are nonnegotiable. We do not accept (any changes proposed or to be proposed).” Dispelling such apprehensions, Law Commission chairman last October, in an exclusive interview, had told ET that it was “completely wrong to insinuate that the questionnaire is loaded in favour of the code”. He had added “when we ourselves are unsure of what format and shape the uniform civil code can eventually take or not take, how can anyone be apprehensive about the issue at this stage”.
  
