Mumbai: The Reserve Bank of India has said that minority lenders who stymie a decision by majority lenders on bad debt resolution will face enforcement action. The central bank has also directed boards of banks to empower executives to take decisions to address  .

 The   has said that it will expand its current two-member oversight committee with a large number of members to endorse proposals for resolution of bad debt from banks. The large number of members brought into the oversight committee will man various benches to clear proposals from banks. The expansion of the oversight committee is aimed at providing protection to executive decisions by banks to take haircuts on loans to bring them back on track.
 
 Currently, the two-member oversight committee has a very limited role. “While the current members will continue in the reconstituted oversight committee, names of a few more will be announced soon,” the RBI said in a statement. The RBI clarified that a corrective action plan could include flexible restructuring as well as a strategic debt recast — a scheme where banks acquire stake and find new owners for defaulting business. It would also include the more recent Scheme for Sustainable Structuring of Stressed Assets (S4A). Under the   scheme, banks identify how much of a stressed debt is sustainable and provide relief by converting debt to equity.
 
 The RBI has said that rating agencies would have a major role to play in the new scheme of things. However, to prevent rating-shopping or any conflict of interest, the RBI has said that it is exploring the feasibility of rating assignments being determined by the RBI itself and pay for from a fund to be created out of contribution from the banks and the central bank.
 
 In an attempt to ensure that multiple lenders in a consortium are able to move ahead on resolving bad debt, the RBI said that consent required for approval of a proposal was changed to 60% of lenders by value instead of 75% earlier. In terms of numbers of lenders, at least 50% will have to continue to agree. Minority lenders who do not agree must either exit by bringing in a new lender or adhere to the decision of the   (JLF). All lenders have to implement the decision of JLF without any additional conditionality.
 
 Bankers say that the government has identified 50 large bad loans which account for half of the Rs 7 lakh crore of debt under restructuring. The RBI has sought information on the current status of the large stressed assets from banks. The RBI would also constitute a panel comprising majorly of its independent board members to advise it in this matter.
 
 The tough talk from the central bank comes in the wake of the promulgation of the Banking Regulation (Amendment) Ordinance, 2017 which is commonly described as the new NPA (non-performing asset) law. The new law empowers the RBI to direct banks to initiate the insolvency resolution process in respect of a default, under the provisions of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (IBC). It also enables the RBI to issue directions with respect to stressed assets and specify one a panel to advise banking companies on resolution of stressed assets.
 
 
