BJP has delivered another knockout perform ance in the latest round of assembly elections. Once again, against heavy odds,   has leveraged PM  's popularity to pull off a record-shattering win for the party. The scale of victory in politically pivotal UP may have shocked opponents and pundits, but it just about surpassed Shah's own estimate. Having fashioned the saffron sweep of 2014, when the party won 71 of the 80 (it helped ally Apna Dal bag two of the rest)   seats from the sprawling state, Shah was confident that BJP could achieve a repeat if it avoided the mistakes that led to its defeat in Bihar in 2015. Here are the 10 things BJP did to bag 312 seats this time:

 Astute ticket distribution to non-Yadav backwards who were given more than 130 nominations
 
 Targeting of non-Jatav Dalits, with Pasis getting 25 tickets and Dhobis cornering nine. This amplified the signal given by Shah's earlier decision to appoint Keshav Maurya, a Kushwaha, as state party president
 
 Induction of other backwards and non-Jatav dalits in the central ministry like Krishna Raj, Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti and Apna Dal's Anu priya Patel
 
 Poaching of influential BSP members like Swami Prasad Maurya and R K Chaudhary . This made BSP look like a party of Jatavs alone. The same tactic was used to highlight  's dependence on Yadavs
 
 BJP used demonetisation and surgical strikes to project Modi as a leader capable of taking decisive action and pro-poor measures
 
 Speedy implementation of welfare schemes like Ujjwa la, subsidy for toilets, and better supply of urea. Promises of more populist measures like farm loan waiver and interest-free loans were a hit
 
 Stoked resentment against SP's perceived tilt towards Muslims and Yadavs and benefited from a backlash. Modi and Shah promised end of “discrimination“ in “rozgar and FIR“
 
 A not-so-subtle messaging to Hindus through promises to shut down mechanised abbatoirs and set up anti-Ro meo squads
 
 Denial of any tickets to Muslims helped it present itself as a Hindu party “correcting“ its rivals' politics of “appeasement“
 
 Did not project a CM as it had no leader to match either Akhilesh or Mayawati. Any choice would have led to caste rivalries and unravelled the coalition. Focus remained on Modi who trumped rivals.Modi's interventions, BJP feels, boosted its prospects in 50 marginal seats.
 
