NAVI MUMBAI: The long-pending repair work of a   connecting   and Vashigaon across busy   has now been taken up at a cost of Rs 22 lakh. 

  corporator, Divya Vaibhav Gaikwad, who had relentlessly followed up the issue with the administration and urban development department, said, “The subway work is just an instance of how development works got stalled because we did not have ward committees.”
 
 The general body on Friday approved the formation of eight ward committees.
 
 “I thank the commissioner for taking up the work as it will benefit pedestrians and also de-congest the main Vashi road. Projects below Rs 25 lakh come under the ambit of the commissioner’s power of sanctioning the work. But, had the ward committees been constituted earlier, the issue could have been pushed in the monthly meetings. The committee can, however, recommend works less than Rs 5 lakh,” said Gaikwad.
 
 The subway benefits motorists, who are forced to take the lengthy main Vashi road and then take a left turn on the Sion-Panvel highway for Mumbai, as the exit provides for a connecting point to the highway to go to Mumbai.
 
 “The subway near NMSA ground in sector 6 is a boon for those living in sectors 4 to 8 but it used to get clogged with rain water flowing from the slope of the highway. The water-logging problem will now be contained with the construction of a culvert,” the MLA said.
 
 Seepage of water on the pedestrian track will be checked and this subway will provide for two-lane vehicular movement. The alignment of the road in the subway will also be fixed by extending the cement road so that there is no water accumulation at the intersection point of the cement and tar road, Gaikwad added.
 
 The issue of forming the ward committees goes back more than one-and-a-half years, when the general body passed a panel formed by   when D T Waghmare was the municipal commissioner but the opposition was not satisfied as it described the move as “politicisation of the committees by the ruling NCP-Congress coalition” and approached the state government and the chief minister.
 
 
