NEW DELHI: It has been a year since JNU’s  ,   and   were arrested allegedly for sedition. 

 Kanhaiya Kumar was elected   president from AISF. A PhD student from Bihar, he became a figure of dissent on the strength of his oratory. His rousing ‘azaadi’ speech gave the site of the speech a new name — ‘Azaadi Chowk’. With his new-found celebrity status, a book on his life and invites to literary and political events, he feels “scarcity of time”. 
 
 He also finds it “impossible” to “go out and eat at restaurants or watch a movie” like he did earlier since the cops have to be informed every time. He says he came here thinking he would complete his PhD — his current focus — and look for a job but “you see yourself being dragged into this whole issue and you have become the centre of this political game”. He says the entire incident was planned to divert the country’s attention and silence students’ voices. “There is no clarity in the case and no investigation into who were the people who shouted those slogans. If students are out on bail, why were charges of sedition slapped on them,” he asks. 
 
 Umar Khalid, a PhD student at Centre for Historical Studies, was accused of organising an ‘anti-India’ programme on February 9 last year in support of Afzal Guru. He was arrested on charges of sedition for which he is still awaiting a chargesheet. His life has changed a lot. “One year down the line, there are restrictions on my movement since wherever I go, people ask me questions,” he says.
 
 A rumour was spread that he was a Kashmiri “whereas I am from Maharashtra and have spent most of my life here in Delhi,” says the 28-year-old. He has been called “anti-national” and “more often than not I answer them back in the same manner,” he says, forcing a smile. He believes the ‘Stand down JNU’ campaign against the university carried out on social media has not abated, citing the recent UGC notification which will lead to “discrimination” in the admission of PhD and MPhil students. “The cap on researchers will make sure that there aren’t any admissions after five years,” he claims. Khalid says it’s an “insidious attack on democratic processes and JNU’s unique admission policy.” 
 
 Anirban Bhattacharya, a student of history at  , is the son of a former professor of genetics. Sedition charges against this former student of St Stephen’s have had a lasting impact on him. “The manner in which the government raked up the issue has caused a lot of changes in my life,” he says. No longer seen on the campus, Anirban, claims that he can no longer move around freely. “It is very tough to visit movie theatres or restaurants without being pointed at by random people,” he says.
 
 Anirban rues his ‘celebrity’ status and says that “none of us wanted to be villains. We said and did what was right”. He, however, accepts something positive too came out of the incident — more people are ready to listen to what he says. “Many have now started questioning things which they would take for granted. And the targeting of students and those from marginalised sections are met with protests.” No chargesheet has been filed, he points out, in a case which he claims was the administration’s ploy to create a spectacle.
 
 
