CHENNAI: AIADMK (Puratchithalaivi Amma) led by former chief minister   has evolved ingenious ways to keep former chief minister   alive during the campaign for the April 12  .

  delivered by Jayalalithaa have been adapted to suit the current political situation and the forthcoming byelection. The faction’s IT wing leader ‘Aspire’ K Swaminathan said voice neutralisation technology was used to maintain the same pitch and tone of Jayalalithaa’s speeches. Old MGR songs have been modified to include names of Panneerselvam and its R K Nagar candidate E Madhusudhanan. 
 
 The latest campaign audio is a speech by Jayalalithaa. Bits and pieces of her speeches in which she mentions Madhusudhanan’s name as presidium chairman and   (during her earlier campaigns) have been stitched together with a change in the name of the symbol. So, the audio sounds like Jayalalithaa is campaigning for Madhusudhanan. The speech ends as usual with Jayalalithaa evoking the names of DMK founder C N Annadurai and AIADMK founder M G Ramachandran. 
 
 “A team of 3,000 technical and non-technical persons is involved in the campaign. Some of the volunteers are based abroad and we connect with them through Facebook and Twitter,” IT wing secretary Singai G Ramachandran told TOI.
 
 “In the latest audio clip of Jayalalithaa speaking, another person’s voice is used only where the party symbol is mentioned. At the end of a day’s campaign, we get feedback from people based on which we release new speeches,” said Ramachandran.
 
 “The IT wing has a good collection of Amma’s old speeches. They are modified and some are edited to include the symbol name (electric pole or two lamps). The rest is the original speech. On the face of it, the speech will sound like Jayalalithaa campaigning for our candidate. Only if you listen closely you will detect the modifications,” said Swaminathan. 
 
 The IT wing’s strategy is to reach out to voters either through street campaigns or through mobile phones. “We are planning to circulate the audio clips to almost all the voters in the constituency through Whatsapp or as a voice call. The idea is to get people to listen to Amma’s voice as it would influence their voting,” said Swaminathan. 
 
