KOLKATA: Milan Mela opposite Science City is the most secure area in the city this weekend with armed guards, plainclothes cops, watchdogs and 24x7 electronic surveillance. But such security is not unusual when the fair ground is playing host to east India’s largest business-to-business jewellery exhibition.

 Usually the venue for book and handicraft fairs, when threat perceptions are minimal, Milan Mela’s latest event has gold and platinum ornaments studded with diamonds and other precious stones on display, making security the top priority for organizers. Fair organizers UBM India, a wing of UBM Plc that specialises in B2B events, exhibitions and conferences, is unwilling to disclose the net worth of the jewellery displayed by the 115 exhibitors, but sources said it was worth anywhere between Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 crore.
 
 “We’ve surveyed the Milan Mela grounds in advance, identified porous areas to secure them with barricades, plugged potential weak points and put in layers of security at entry and emergency exits. Vaults have been installed to hold the jewellery during the non-business hours. The vaults have a separate layer of security with CCTV cameras and breach alarms. The control room has a backup power supply and the CCTV feed runs on UPS,” explained Max Fernandes, head of India operations at UBM and in charge of the security at the fair.
 
 Yogesh Mudras, managing director of UBM India, said the support from the state was a great help in providing an additional sense of security to the participants. “The police are involved in the security detail and monitoring activities at the venue. They have done their own bit to ensure there is no untoward incident,” he said.
 
 According to officers at Lalbazar, besides regular arrangements, like plainclothes cops, CCTV coverage and comprehensive checks at entry and exit points, cops have established armed pickets at strategic locations and direct links with live CCTV feed. 
 
 “Policemen of the rank of sub-inspectors and above assigned duty in Milan Mela and surrounding areas have been provided with the live feed on their cellphones. This is to ensure instant action in case of any incident. A staggered feed is also being sent to   police station and Lalbazar headquarters,” an officer said.
 
 What makes the task of both police and private security personnel challenging is the very nature of the venue — an open-air fair ground that can be monitored from multiple locations, including under-construction buildings in the vicinity and the flyover that runs by it. That Kolkata has witnessed a string of heists in recent times with robbers striking at jewellery shops in the outskirts of the city is on the back of everyone’s mind.
 
 With such extensive security coverage, breaking into Milan Mela may well be impossible. And there is no denying that the men on duty will be wary of someone emulating   (‘Mission Impossible’) or our very own Waseem Khan (‘Special 26’) and Aryan Singh (‘Dhoom 2’).
 
 
