JAIPUR: The National Board of Examination’s notice of lowering down the   for qualifying in mop up   has come as a relief for candidates of  , who were left out in first two counselling as they did not secure required percentile in   which was required to become eligible.

 But, those taking part in mop-up round of counselling to be held on May 30, they do not have much choice left with them. All seats of branches considered as lucrative or most-sought after, have already been taken up in first two rounds of counselling in government medical colleges. Out of 23 total brnaches, only eight branches have 96 seats left in government medical colleges. 
 
 According to the list of vacant seats issued after second round of counselling by the chairman, NEET PG medical/dental admission board 2017 and principal SMS medical college, Jaipur, no seats in seven government medical colleges are left for MD courses in braches such as anaesthesia, general medicine, paediatrics, pathology, psychiatry, radio diagnosis, radiotherapy, skin, TB and respiratory medicine, ENT, general surgery, obstetrician and gynaecology, ophthalmology and orthopaedics. 
 
 In SMS hospital, only 16 seats are left including seven of MD Physiology, three of MD biochemistry, five anatomy seats and one forensic medicine seat. A total of 96 seats in government medical colleges are left vacant after two rounds of counselling of biochemistry, forensic medicine, microbiology, pharmacology, physiology, PSM and anatomy. 
 
 In the state, two counselling for PG medical courses have already been completed but still there are PG seats, which are yet to be filled. A mop-up round for counselling for left over seats will be held on May 30.   issued notice of revised result cum score card of NEET-PG 2017 — Revised All India NEET-PG 2017 rank on Thursday.
 
 The notice says, the minimum qualifying percentile have been revised. It says that for general category, the qualifying percentile was 50 earlier. Now it has been lowered down to 42.50. For SC/ST/OBC, it has been reduced to 32.50 from 40. For persons with disability, the revised qualifying percentile is 37.50, which was 45 earlier. “Ahead of mop up round of counselling for PG medical courses, which will take place on May 30, the notice of revised qualifying percentile has come as a relief for candidates who were unable to participate as they did not qualify the eligibility criteria earlier. Now, they have become eligible,” Dr Jitendra Bagaria, an in-service doctor, who appeared in the NEET 2017 said. 
 
 The NEET PG medical/dental Board 2017 and principal Sawai Man Singh medical college Jaipur issued list of vacant seats after 2nd round of counselling. Now, the candidates, who have become eligible for taking part in mop up round of counselling, will get the seats.
 
 The result of NEET-PG 2017 was declared on January 2017.
 
 
