New Delhi: The government on Wednesday cleared dilution of 25% stake in the five state-run   companies —   Company,  , Oriental and   apart from reinsurer General Insurance — to help them raise funds and also increase public oversight.

 The decision to shed stake had been announced in the budget and the government decided to give a go-ahead for paring its stake, which will include fresh issue of shares — which will expand capital base — as well as offer for sale, resulting in disinvestment of government equity.
 
 The government will reduce its shareholding in tranches with the timing to be decided by the companies, finance minister Arun Jaitley told reporters after a meeting of the cabinet committee on economic affairs (CCEA), which cleared ‘in principle’ the listing plan. Details about size of the issue and price will be finalised by a ministerial panel comprising Jaitley and road transport and shipping minister Nitin Gadkari. The extent of reduction is in line with the guidelines prescribed by Sebi and Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI), the minister said.
 
 
  
 
 Although a timing for the issue was not indicated, no offer is expected before at least the next few months given that the process would involve hiring bankers and following other norms laid down by the regulators. Currently, ICICI Prudential Life is the sole listed insurance company and other private sector general insurers are not listed although they have been making profits for the past few years.
 
 While all the issues are unlikely to hit the market in one go, the first one will set the tone for the sector. 
 
 “This (CCEA) approval also comes at a time when the primary markets have shown great interest in IPOs from financial services sectors over the past few months. As and when these general insurance companies go for IPO and get listed, it will bring greater transparency and enhance governance standards, apart from helping them meet capital requirements from sources other than the government,” said Sai Venkateshwaran, a partner at consulting firm KPMG in India.
 
 “As these companies become accountable to public shareholders, their performance parameters will be subject to greater scrutiny, which in turn may force them to become more efficient and competitive. It will certainly be good for the industry as a whole and it will ultimately pave way for some of the larger private sector general insurance companies to go for IPO,” he said.
 
 Traditionally, the state-run general insurers have lost money in their core business but given the stock of blue-chip shares, the firms have a healthy investment and treasury income.
 
 
