NEW DELHI: The new owners of   following divestment may not have to worry about its gargantuan debt as the government has decided to move much of this into a special purpose vehicle (SPV) before selling the carrier, senior aviation ministry officials said.

 The committee on Air India’s divestment led by Finance Minister   took this decision at a meeting on August 30, they said.
 
 “The committee decided to transfer all debt and assets of Air India to an SPV that will be managed by the government The airline will be sold only with aircraft debt on its books. This will make the airline a much more lucrative proposition,” said one of the officials.
 
 Air India has a total debt of Rs 52,000 crore and about Rs 33,000 crore is on account of working capital loans, which will be transferred to the SPV. The remaining is against aircraft purchases, which will be with the company that’s put up for sale. Another official said the valuation would improve significantly if the working-capital debt is transferred to the SPV.
 
 “Either the government decides to sell the company with debt, which would not fetch any money, or the government sells it without the debt — that would fetch money,” the person said. 
 
 “Selling the company at a lower or nil valuation would create a much bigger controversy than selling it at a valuation.” It’s also been decided that Air India’s assets are on lease to the carrier and ownership vests with the government.
 
 So the seller will be the government and not the national carrier. ET had reported this first on September 18.
 
 Another key decision was to allow airlines with up to 49% foreign partnership to bid for Air India. “This will improve the interest in Air India,” said one of the officials.
 
 Another official added that the current foreign direct investment ( ) norms that don’t allow 49% foreign investment in the national carrier can be amended as and when required.
 
 Currently,   is the only carrier that has officially shown interest in buying Air India. The  , which has stakes in Vistara and   India, has also been mentioned as a possible suitor.
 
 Companies like Bird Group and Celebi – both of which are involved in ground handling — have shown interest in that part of Air India’s business.
 
