CHENNAI: An online travel company and a US airlines have been imposed Rs 2 lakh as compensation payable to a woman whose betrothel had to be cancelled, as she was disallowed from embarking on   at Minneaopolis in the US despite having a valid travel ticket.

 District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum, Chennai (north) slapped the fine of Rs 2 lakh on MakeMy Trip (India) Pvt Ltd and  , after applicant T A Prasanna said her daughter T A Indira Priya’s betrothel could not be held on February 8, 2013.
 
 To ensure that she is here in Chennai for her betrothel, the applicant had booked a Delta Airlines flight from   to Amsterdam on February 5, 2013, and from there to take a connecting Delta flight the same day to New Delhi on February 7, 2013. He had booked all tickets through MakeMy Trip.
 
 However, when Indira Priya approached Delta Airlines ground staffs at Minneapolis terminal, they refused to issue her boarding pass saying no seat was available in the flight. She spent additional Rs 2.8 lakh and travelled by a Lufthansa Airlines on February 21, 2013 from Minneapolis to Chennai.
 
 “The act of MakeMy Trip and Delta Airlines amounts to negligence and unfair trade practice,” the petition said, seeking refund of Rs 91,000 from MakeMy Trip, refund of the ticket fare of Rs 2.8 lakh, besides Rs 5 lakh as compensation.
 
 MakeMy Trip submitted that she reached airport late to board the scheduled flight and the booking was marked as ‘no show’ by the airlines. Also, the portal said it had acted merely as a facilitator for booking airlines and hence, it was not liable to pay any compensation.
 
 A bench comprising forum president   member and T Kalaiyarasi, however, said Indira Priya had a valid ticket but the airlines failed to issue the boarding pass, which was deficiency in service. MakeMy Trip also equally liable for Delta Airlines not issuing boarding pass, it further held, adding that cancellation of betrothel posed untold sufferings and mental agony to Indira Priya.
 
 The bench then directed MakeMy Trip and Delta Airlines to pay a compensation of Rs 1.96 lakh, including refund of Rs 91,000 to the woman and her father.
 
