I am working abroad since last 8 years and I recently got married, but I don't have any feelings for my wife. She loves me a lot but I don't get excited when I am around her. However, I have formed a few intimate relationships with some female colleagues at my work place.

 I consider myself a ' ' as I always want more of it, but strangely my wife can't arouse me. I have gone to the extent of subtly putting the same across to my wife and desperately want to come out of this marriage. Despite my efforts, my wife is not ready to leave me as she is really concerned about the society and reputation of her parents. Please guide me on the future course of this relationship. - By Anonymous
 
 
  It can feel very stressful and exhausting to be in a long distance marriage which doesn’t seem to be working for you. Dealing with the guilt of sexual involvement outside of marriage can get confusing too.
  
 Living apart can work for some couples, but it isn’t easy. It requires both commitment and excellent communication which your relationship probably hasn’t yet established. With no foundation laid, a long distance marriage can get more lonely and disconnected. Connection is built and strengthened daily when you share your values, thoughts and feelings which help to understand your partner’s perspective. A deep emotional connect will foster sexual intimacy too.
  
 Couples who live apart often experience increased difficulty with commitment. Without an established connect the biology takes over and acts on the attraction. Then the social restrictions take a back seat as there is no emotional involvement with the spouse yet. However, there is a part of you that is aware of the commitment made with the marriage to remain loyal and faithful to your spouse leading to feelings of guilt.
  
 You are probably unable to connect with your wife sexually because there are too many conflicting emotions – there is a marriage – but an un-established emotional connect, which brings loneliness and there is the guilt of infidelity too. Thus each time you find yourself having sex outside – you think of yourself as a sex addict.
  
 Sex addicts use sex as a quick fix to relieve anxiety, loneliness, pain or other forms of stress, and this cycle has to last over six months before it can be diagnosed. Reflect on whether you are completely obsessed with sexual behaviours, thoughts or even feelings. If the answer is yes – I would recommend you to seek help for it because it will interfere work, health, relationships and other normal activities.
  
 On whether to stay or leave – Your wife’s reason to stay is fear based – the social repercussions on the family of a divorce. However, the underlying reason for you is also fear – will I build emotional and sexual intimacy with my wife ever. Moving from fear to action is what can make the marriage work – action would mean what can I do to bring a connection or a glue factor in the marriage? How can we bring common goals in the marriage to make it work? Long term marriages don’t work themselves out – it takes work from both the spouses. Without attempting any work or action towards it – if you find yourself wanting to give up, it could be indicative of your attitude towards challenges, difficulties and commitment in general. And it is likely that you may be someone who gives up easily on a slightest sign of challenge or discomfort.
  
 I believe, like anything worth having in life, long-term relationships are hard work. Put in some honest effort for a chance to have any long term relationship. You could consider couple counseling as a starting point.
 
 
 
 Want expert advice for your relationship? Send us an email at expertadvice.toi@gmail.com
 
 
