VADODARA: In an era when   comes at a cost, this 65-year-old woman has been   to lawyers and visitors for free in Laal Court since more than five decades.

 Ask any lawyer where Puniben is and a quick reply would come – “Beside the temple.”   has been coming to court daily except on holidays since 55 years and her daily job is to fill bottles of water from the cooler and serve to lawyers and visitors on all three floors of Laal Court.
 
 “My father was a peon here and I started to come with him when I was 10. Since then I have been coming daily except on holidays and health reasons. Earlier, I used to clean belongings of lawyers but later started to serve them water,” said Trivedi.
 
 As years passed she got a job in public prosecutors’ office as housekeeping staff but when her brother did not have a job she gave it up for him. She then continued to serve water. “During the initial years of Laal Court there were around 10 lawyers and there were no tables, all used to sit on floor. As the number of lawyers increased   came in and typists also started to sit,” she added. Thus, along with lawyers she started to serve water to typists.
 
 She says now she also serves water to cops and criminals who come to court for hearing. “There is only one cooler and it is difficult for all to go there and drink water so I fill bottles and roam on all three floors,” said Trivedi. She does not charge a single penny from anyone for water. “I do not ask for money from anyone, if anyone gives voluntarily then I accept it. But I serve water only to get their blessings,” she told TOI.
 
 Trivedi also found her life partner at the court. Her husband Suryakant Trivedi was a peon in district court. However, he passed away some years back and she lives with her two sons. “My elder son drives auto rickshaw and asks me not to come here now but I have spent my entire life here. There is no question of stopping now,” she said.
 
 The courts will shift to the new buildings in Diwalipura in some months but that does not deter Trivedi to go all the way till Diwalipura from her house on R V Desai Road. “So what if the courts shifts, I will continue going there too. I will serve water till I am fit,” she said as she left for filling the water bottle.
 
