MUMBAI: Even before the battle for the Mumbai mayoral polls heats up, another battle has broken out between the BJP , MNS and   over the 'selfie point' at Shivaji Park, the brainchild of local MNS corporator Sandeep Deshpande.

 On Wednesday , MNS had announced that it would shut down the popular selfie point because of shortage of funds for maintaining it. Deshpande said that it took around Rs 12 lakh to maintain the space annually .
 
 On Thursday , BJP Mumbai chief Ashish Shelar jumped into the fray , saying on Twitter that the BJP would continue with the selfie point “in a more attractive way .“ He further tweeted, “Please note: The selfie point in   is going to be continued. BJP will support it. Have a great time polishing selfie skills!“ Later in the day , Shelar also made public a permission letter from the BMC G North ward office granting him permission for setting up the selfie point.
 
 However, Deshpande also took over to Twitter after Shelar had put up his tweet, saying that as per  's directives, the selfie point would not be shut but be continued to be maintained by him. He also said that others did not need to poke their noses in the matter. “The selfie point was a brainchild of the MNS and we will continue with it even if it means I need to fund it myself. Other political parties should try out their own ideas and implement them rather than jumping into other people's areas,“ Deshpande said. He added that he was surprised to see the local ward office grant permission to the BJP at such a fast pace. “Had the BMC worked on clearing encroachments and hawkers at such a fast space, it would have helped the public at large. Anyway , if other parties want to set up a selfie point, then Shivaji Park is huge, let every party do it,“ he said.
 
 Not to be left behind, the Shiv Sena then said it was keen to develop the selfie point.Vishakha Raut, former mayor and newly-elected corporator from the Shivaji Park area, said the Sena was capable of doing it. Commenting on Ashish Shelar's tweet, Raut said, “Shelar should have had shown some political ethics and basic courtesy by asking me before he announced any work in the ward I am representing. The Sena is capable of doing this work. Shelar should look after Bandra while the Sena and Raut will look after Dadar.“ Raut further said she had had a round at Shivaji Park and was “upset over seeing the condition of the Aaji-Aajoba Park.“
 
