THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state committee of the   (DYFI) welcomed the Supreme Court verdict to give compensation to the   and said it was a historic judgement by the apex court. 

 "The verdict finally grants justice to the thousands of victims in Kasaragod, following the petition filed by DYFI. It is a happy moment for all of us as our fight for them turned fruitful, and we welcome the pronouncement wholeheartedly," said DYFI state secretary M Swaraj MLA at a news conference here.
 
 The Supreme Court bench, presided over by Chief Justice J S Khehar on Tuesday, pronounced that the rehabilitation of the victims of the use of endosulfan at Cheemini village in Kasaragod is the responsibility of the government. 
 
 The apex court further said that the compensation of Rs 5 lakh, pronounced by the Human Rights Commission, should be given to each victim within three months. 
 
 The court has asked the state government to get the compensation from the pesticide producing company. 
 
 Swaraj said that it was as a response to the PIL filed by DYFI, that the apex court, on May 13, 2011, has banned the use, manufacture and sales of the endosulfan pesticide in India, citing its harmful effects on human, animals and environment.
 
 "We took the fight further by filing a petition demanding the rehabilitation of the victims and now considering our petition, the Supreme Court instructed the state and central governments to rehabilitate them within three months," added Swaraj.
 
 Meanwhile, DYFI state president A N Shamseer said that DYFI extended solidarity with writer M T Vasudevan Nair and filmmaker Kamal to fight against the recent verbal attack on them by RSS and BJP.
 
 "No fundamentalist force can stop the citizens of India from commenting on the fake-nationalism propagated by RSS and BJP, who are trying to destroy the societal unity," he said.
 
 KPCC president V M Sudheeran also welcomed the verdict of the apext court.
 
 Sudheeran urged the state government to step up all measures to provide the compensation at the earliest. 
 
  The Congress leader said that the verdict has come as a big relief for the victims. 
 
 The government should take legal measures for getting the compensation from the company, he added. 
 
 
