AHMEDABAD: Deputy commissioner of   Sandeep Singh who was based at custom house,  , is still absconding in a corruption case registered against him on Tuesday. Now it has come to light that an inquiry was initiated against Singh in March 2015 into allegations of corruption, physical assault and harassment against him.

 Sources said that the inquiry report had advised major penalty against Singh. Yet he continued to hold an important post. “We are looking for him. We have inputs that he has fled to his native place,  , in Punjab. We are in touch with our counterparts in   to arrest him,” a source in the CBI said.
 
 On Tuesday, CBI had arrested a middleman and custom house agent, Hiten Thakkar, who along with Singh had allegedly demanded a bribe of Rs 20 lakh from Kutch-based trader for clearing his import of non-vegetarian protein consignments.
 
 “The CBI search did not result in recovery. However, Singh had already left his house and office. We are also in the process of issuing a lookout notice for him at all airports across the country,” a source in the CBI said.
 
 Sources said that in March 2015, a copy of the complaint against Singh was received through Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) by deputy director DRI, SJ Singh, at the DRI office in Gandhidham. The complaint accused Singh of harassment, physical assault and corruption. At the time, Singh was posted in DRI. 
 
 “The complaint was forwarded to Additional Director General (Vigilance), Ahmedabad zone, on March 19, 2015 for investigation. An investigation report was sent to the CVC on June 3, 2015 from the office of the director general of DRI for information. On November 25, 2016 a major penalty was advised against Singh ,” a source said.
 
 Sources in the customs said that Sandeep was in touch with several customs house agents and was widely involved in large-scale corruption. Customs sources said that before the CBI conducted searches at his office and residence, Singh had fled raising suspicion that he had received a tip-off.
 
