NEW DELHI: The newly-elected mayors have directed the health departments of their respective municipalities to prepare a comprehensive action plan to control vector-borne diseases. Over 35 dengue and 92 chikungunya cases have been reported so far this year.

 The areas with the maximum number of dengue cases will be dealt with by a separate team to ensure that   is eliminated before it spreads. Preety Agarwal, mayor of the north corporation, warned that no laxity would be tolerated in this regard and directed the officials to monitor the situation and submit weekly reports.
 
 “Health department officials have been directed to conduct regular meetings and monitor mosquito breeding on a regular basis. Domestic breed checkers (DBCs) are already on field to ensure that residents are apprised of the precautionary measures required to be taken. We have issued advisories to all educational institutions and office complexes to follow guidelines,” said Agarwal.
 
 South corporation mayor Kamaljeet Sehrawat said the primary focus was to ensure that cleanliness was maintained and stagnation of water was avoided. “The larvae of dengue breed in fresh water so residents should ensure there is no stagnation of water. Also, we have directed the department to ensure that by May-end all drains are desilted to avoid any waterlogging during monsoon.”
 
 Neema Bhagat, mayor of the east civic body, pointed out that RWAs should come forward to sensitise the residents on dengue control and prevention measures. The corporation will initiate awareness programmes soon, she said.
 
 The north corporation said residents can find information on vector-borne diseases on its website. Information like jurisdictions of DBCs, their shifts and how to lodge complaint about mosquito breeding can be accessed from their portal. The east and south corporations will post similar information on their websites as well.
 
 “Information about DBCs and complaint registration are available on the homepage of our website. People can upload pictures or videos to register their complaints and action will be taken by the department immediately,” said a senior official from the north corporation.
 
 So far, south, north and east corporations have sprayed anti-larva insecticides at 62,704, 24,476 and 9,929 homes, respectively. The south corporation has issued 10,738 legal notices to individuals, offices and buildings for flouting guidelines. Similarly, the north and east civic bodies have issued 4,386 and 2,528 notices respectively. 
 
 
