PANAJI:   (AG)  , in his opinion given to the state government on Monday, said there is no need to either dissolve the   or convene an assembly session as polling has already taken place on February 4.

 Chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar received the legal opinion from the advocate general on Monday evening. Parsekar had sought the AG’s legal opinion on whether he has to recommend to the governor to summon the assembly or dissolve the  , as it would be more than six months since the last session by the time the new government is formed.
 
 Lotlikar said the present legislative assembly could transact no business in view of the fact that polling has already taken place and in this situation non convening of the legislative assembly session within six month cannot be considered as breakdown of constitution machinery. The status of the existing assembly can continue till the new assembly is put in place after declaration of the assembly results, he added.
 
 “In my opinion, there would not be any breach of article of the constitution if no session of the legislative assembly is called before February 28, 2017. It is also not necessary for the cabinet to recommend to the governor to dissolve the legislative assembly merely because in the existing situation the assembly session is not being called,” Lotlikar said in his opinion.
 
 “The dissolution of the assembly under article 174(2)(b) is not automatic upon non-compliance of article 174(1) of the Constitution. In the given case, it may become necessary to recommend to the governor to dissolve the assembly under article 174(2)(b), but the present situation is not one which warrants such a recommendation. Therefore the status as existing today can continue till the new assembly is put in place after the declaration of the results,” Lotlikar said.
 
 He also said that there is a need for holistic and pragmatic interpretation of the Constitution and not an unrealistic interpretation.
 
 Goa Pradesh Congress Committee (GPCC), on Friday, demanded that Governor Mridula Sinha dissolve the state legislative assembly and impose President's rule in Goa, since the meeting of the legislative assembly has not been convened for six months, which is against Constitutional norm.
 
 "Even I am happy to call the assembly. But it must be noted that elections have just been held, after which, ethically, it is not appropriate that the outgoing government convenes the assembly session. Opposition MLAs have decreased by four or five. And since it is a new session of the year, it has to be addressed by the governor. The governor’s speech will be on the government’s policies. Which government’s policies is she going to speak on?” Parsekar questioned.
 
 
