NAGPUR: Curious young minds from the Jain International School (JIS) had answers to all their queries as to what happens in a newspaper office, how news is gathered and presented to the readers etc during their visit to the office of The   (TOI). 

 The School Buzz editors from the JIS were pleased to receive their certificates for this season’s Buzz and to interact with the TOI staff. The students were delighted to meet the real life editors, reporters and photojournalists and getting their doubts cleared while they had a good peek into the world of print media.
 
 While sharing about the experience during his involvement in Buzz, Aadarsh Chourasia, executive editor, said, “Buzz made me realize that a variety of opinions exist on a particular topic and I learnt how you can gain knowledge and obtain a different viewpoints on anything and everything. Not only that, I also learnt the importance of teamwork and about how to form proper sentences. I had fun while I was getting educated.” 
 
 Vaibhav Mundra, a resident editor, who wrote on the topic ‘Marathi as a language’, told how he learnt to explore and research during his participation in Buzz.
 
 Shreya Torvi, an associate editor, conveyed about how Buzz taught her to accept opinions of other people and said, “Teamwork was the best part about School Buzz and I got to communicate with new people. Also, I was surprised at the quality of thoughts that I was able to present and it felt really great.” Another associate editor, Mahek Kalani, who conducted the first period on ‘Under-17 Football in India’, said she learnt the art of question formation and how to scoop out the information through minimum questions. “I was also enlightened a lot about the topic during the interactions I had. It was great to converse on topics that you generally do not talk about. I thoroughly enjoyed my Buzz time,” added Mahek.
 
 Parents, who accompanied the students, also shared their views on Buzz while talking to TOI. Indu Chourasia, mother of editor Aadarsh, was of the opinion that Buzz gave a boost to her ward’s confidence and improved his writing skills. She said, “Even I love to write and looking at Aadarsh’s work, I felt like he is somehow fulfilling my dream.” 
 
 Mother of editor Shreya, Padmaja Torvi said, “Buzz gives a great platform to participate in something other than the academics. I felt really proud and it was like an assurance to us parents too that our child is capable enough to do more than what we expect from them.”
 
 Kiran Joshi, staff from the JIS, who has been associated with the Buzz for six years, said, “Providing a practical approach is very important and Buzz does it well. Students can now look at journalism as a career option in the future.” 
 
 Anmol Badjatia, principal, JIS, also appreciated the Buzz team and the hardwork put in by the students.
 
