MYSURU: The poor performance of   district in the recent   topped the agenda at the   general meeting here on Monday. The council unanimously decided to initiate stern action against teachers who failed in their duty to ensure good results. 

 Raising the issue, BJP’s Hanchipura ZP member Venkataswamy said that the district, which was eighth in the state previous year had plunged to 21st position this year. “Chief minister Siddaramaaiah, education minister Tanveer Sait, the ZP president and the   and officials from the district should be ashamed of this result. Ironically, no action has been initiated against teachers who have failed in their duties,” he said. 
 
 Ventakaswamy also expressed his displeasure over discrepancies in filling the vacant posts of teachers. “While HD Kote taluk had 94 vacancies, the education department has recruited just 9. Krishnarajanagar taluk had 29 vacancies, and all of them were filled. The shortage of teachers and the disparity have led to poor results in government schools, especially thoses on fringes of forest areas, and along the border,” he alleged. 
 
 Endorsing Ventakaswamy, former ZP president and Congress’ Bannikuppe member Pushpavathi Amarnath said that the members of School Development Monitoring Committee (SBMC) and the panchayat should also monitor the progress of government schools. 
 
 “An experts team comprising education experts, retired teachers and ZP members should be formed to resolve the problems of teachers so they can better train students, right from the beginning of the academic year,” she said. 
 
 Reacting to the concerns, ZP CEO P Shivashankar agreed that there is inconsistency in allotting teachers to each taluk in the district, which has caused the imbalance. “As it is a government decision, we will write a letter to provide more teachers to taluks which lack teachers,” he said. 
 
 Commenting on the SSLC results, Shivashankar said that Mysuru is considered a VVIP district, which draws more focus and attention. “I believe coastal districts perform better in SSLC as teachers there show a lot of commitment in their work. This is lacking in teachers working in Mysuru district. Children fail mostly in mathematics, English and science subjects. We have to concentrate on weak children so they score minimum marks in tough subjects,” he said, adding: “We have prepared a blueprint, according to which teachers will have to identify weak students in Class VIII itself and are trained well ahead of SSLC exams. We are also preparing a short-term plan for students taking SSLC exams, and those who are appearing for supplementary exams,” he said. 
 
