NEW DELHI: A 20-year-old man was   for more than 500 metres before being bludgeoned to death by three men in full public view at   railway station on Thursday night after he had allegedly snatched Rs 20,000 from one of them. The accused have been arrested. 

 Rahul, who used to work as a loader at Subzi Mandi, was   off an overbridge. 
 
 He was repeatedly kicked in the stomach and private parts, and hit with bricks, said the police. 
 
 A constable who rushed to the spot hearing the calls for help caught the three men, identified as Ravi, Lalit and Rajender. Rahul was taken to a hospital where he died during treatment. 
 
 “A murder case has been registered based on the statements of eyewitnesses. We are trying to determine the actual cause behind the murder,” said Parvez Ahmed, DCP, railways.
 
 The accused claimed that Rahul was known to Rajender, a truck driver, and had tried to flee after snatching Rs 20,000 from him. After Rajender chased and caught him, Rahul said he would soon return the money. But this led to an argument following which Rajender started thrashing him. In a bid to escape the attack, Rahul scaled a wall, jumped into the station compound and started running. 
 
 Rajender called in his friends, Ravi and Lalit, to help him nab Rahul and followed him to the overbridge. Eyewitnesses have told the police that he was beaten up brutally for 10 minutes. Despite this, Rahul tried to get up and flee, but was pushed by an accused and became unconscious after falling off the overbridge.
 
 An autopsy revealed that Rahul was kicked several times in the stomach and private parts that had led to internal haemorrhages, which eventually killed him. The police said no money was found on him. 
 
 The CCTV footage retrieved by cops showed that even as Rahul was being thrashed, nobody intervened as the accused threatened to harm them. An additional police force had to be sent to chase the onlookers away.
 
 Rahul had come to Delhi from Bihar along with his brother, said the police. His body will be handed over to the family once they reach Delhi. The police are trying to verify if the accused have any criminal antecedents.
 
