 JAISALMER: A report on the functioning of the   centres in   reveals that a large number of sub-centres in rural areas are lying closed and several others are not functional as the staff is 'missing'. 

 The report was compiled following directives of the district collector Sudhir Sharma who had received several complaints against the non-functional health centres in rural areas in Barmer. 
 
 Sharma received complaints regarding poor health facilities at night chaupals, following which he had ordered random checks by the deputy chief medical and health officer (CMHO) who then compiled a detailed report.
 
 As per the information, the report states that on April 2, during the national pulse polio campaign, nine health centres were checked in Barmer block and all of them were found closed. 
 
 When information was sought from villagers, it was found that in these villages, the auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs) had not administered polio drops for the last five years and neither was any publicity material on polio displayed there.
 
 Similarly, at   block of Barmer, an ANM was found roaming at a bus stand and when she was taken to the centre and the lock was opened, there were no   display and no list of beneficiary children. Even the quantity of medicines was very less. At Dungron Ka Tala, the villagers reported that the ANM was available at the centre only for an hour.
 
 Similarly at  , many irregularities were found on inspection. The staff had signed the register but was missing. The entire centre was covered with dust. The condition of the labour room and ward was very pathetic. Many sub-centres and PHCs including Mangla, Shobhalar Jetpal, Udasar, Koshle Ki Dhani, Loharva, Dudhwa, Akoda, Kurja and others were found closed and ANMs absent. 
 
 At many centres, polio drops were not administered, while at others, despite getting money for cleanliness, the centres were lying dirty. Several irregularities were also reported. Taking serious note of it, Sharma had ordered a detailed investigation and issued directions to hold back the salary of staff missing from the duty. The collector also issued show-cause notices to the missing staff.
 
