KANPUR: After  ,   vets got another success in   which belonged to   and are protected under the  , 1972. For the first time since the zoo's inception, the vets have hand-fed the 7-day-old chicks of Barn Owl and Jungle Owl species. 

 The chicks were handed over to Kanpur zoo about two months ago by villagers who had seen them lying outside a nest. The zoo vets got the chicks admitted in the hospital for their upkeep and treatment. 
 
 Taking it as a challenge to ensure their survival as they were tiny and about 15 grams in weight, the vets began feeding them very tiny pieces of meat through long surgical forceps and served them water by using a syringe. But this was not an easy task as they would get terrified when vets ever came close to them. 
 
 There was always a fear of their dying due to shock. Extra precaution had to be taken while feeding them. They were also given multi-vitamins to keep them fit.
 
 Sincere efforts on the part of vets ensured their survival, and now the chicks are two months old. They have now started consuming small pieces of meat on their own. They have become friendly with the vets and respond to their whistles. 
 
 "While a bigger chick is Barn Owl, the smaller in size is the Jungle Owl. Both of them are rare. As the owls are under threat they are protected under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. When they were brought to the zoo they were about 15-20 grams in weight. We had to hand-feed them to make them survive. The meat pieces were kept in their beak with precaution. Their thirst used to be quenched by water given through a syringe. The exercise had to be repeated twice a day. But all this was not easy. We first had to study the way a mother owl feeds its chick before applying our tricks to them. These efforts bore fruits", said zoo vets RK Singh and Mohd Nasir while talking to TOI.
 
 When asked if they had hand-reared owl chicks ever before, the vets said that it was for the first time that they had hand-fed the owl chicks in an attempt to save their lives as their numbers are dwindling. 
 
 "The chicks were handed over to Kanpur zoo by some villagers who had spotted them, and since the last two months they have been taking care of them", the vets said and added the chicks have gained weight and are now hale and hearty.
 
 They said for the first time they had hand-reared the owl chicks because the zoo never had a jungle owl in its animal kingdom. 
 
 "The horned owls when grow up gain a big height and weight. They can weigh up to five kgs. Jungle owls are very rare and not easy to find now. Owls are endangered specie of birds", said Dr Singh.
 
 Assistant Conservator of Forest at Kanpur zoo, Keshav Prasad informed that owls form an important part of the ecosystem and feed on snakes, rats, ants, termites, pests and insects. "Had there not been owls in our ecosystem, snakes, rodents, insects would have increased in an abundant number. They therefore, balance the ecology", he said.
 
 Since owls are nocturnal in nature, they target their prey especially during the night hours. The zoo has a large number of free ranging owls. They can even swallow an entire rodent. Their life span ranges from 15 to 20 years", Keshav Prasad said.
 
 
