KOLKATA: The   and retailers are thrashing out a turbo-charged four-day   beginning Republic Day to end its first innings with a bang. Other than the   and the cineplex, nearly all the shops will shut from February 1 as the mall goes into makeover mode.

 Sources told TOI that the mall management team and retailers were discussing the possibility of announcing an across-the-board 65-70% flat discount on all products, making it the city’s biggest ever sale. At the end of season sale that is currently on, the average discount on offer is 30-40%. On Sunday, stores at   hiked the discount to 50%.
 
 “Retailers need to clear the stock or incur additional expense in transporting and holding the stock in a warehouse,” a retailer explained.
 
 Going by Sunday, when 1.5 lakh people visited South City, the next two weekends will be challenging for the mall staff. Usually, end-of-season sales attract 80,000-120,000 people on a weekend day.
 
 “On Sunday, footfall was 20% higher than the corresponding Sunday last January. Usually, we have such high footfall in the festive season. Anchor stores like Pantaloons and Shoppers Stop are recording 30% higher sales compared to last year,”said   chief operating officer Manmohan Bagri. 
 
 It is the final weekend when the mall goes into countdown sale offering eye-popping deals and the crowd count could touch new records. Till now, the highest crowd on a day was 2016 Christmas when South City recorded a footfall of 2.5 lakh visitors.
 
 Even as Bagri’s team prepares the detailed timeline for the mall upgrade, a sub-team has been formed to handle the challenges leading up to the closure. On Sunday, the mall’s parking lot turned full by 5pm. “The mall is equipped to handle around 2-2.5 lakh people. If the rush is greater, entry has to be restricted. Food court will be another challenge as part of it is currently out of bounds. But we hope to make these last 15 days memorable for the patrons and whet their appetite for exciting times when the mall reopens,” Bagri said.
 
 
