PUNE: The Maha-Metro Corporation is eyeing integration with railways, PMPML and MSRTC while developing its stations for two   — Pimpri-Swargate and Vanaz-Ramwadi — to ensure smooth movement of passengers.

 The integration is planned at the crucial junctions like Pune railway station, Shivajinagar and Swargate wherein metro network will run into existing public transport utilities.
 
 Maha-Metro’s managing director Brijesh Dixit said that integration was on the cards to ensure daily travellers do not face any problem while commuting.
 
 “It is obvious that travellers will benefit if there is integration among the services. A passenger travelling in metro should get services of PMPML or MSRTC without any hassle. For this, we are working on integration”, Dixit said.
 
 The Maha-Metro’s routes are along Shivajinagar,   and Swargate where there are established public transport services. The metro corporation is now working on integrated models to connect its services to existing utilities. 
 
 According to the plan, multi-modal transport hubs are expected to come up at Shivajinagar and Swargate.
 
 The Maha-Metro has planned interchange terminus at Shivajinagar foodgrain godown. Incidentally, PMRDA’s Hinjewadi-Shivajinagar metro line also runs through the same place. The Maha-Metro will work in coordination with PMRDA to establish a multi-modal hub. Similarly, a multi-modal transport hub will be developed at Swargate along with MSRTC and PMPML.
 
 Dixit said that models of multi-modal hubs were still to be finalised, however, Maha-Metro will play major role in designing the hubs. The hubs will be commuter-friendly and provide all necessary facilities for smooth transport, he said.
 
 Regular travellers have pointed out that existing public transport services are not interlinked and lack basic amenities. 
 
 Nilesh Raja, who often travels on local train up to Pune Station, said that he has to walk a lot to board a   towards Nagar Road. Integration is necessary to reduce the hardships faced by commuters regularly, Raja said.
 
