MANALI: Be it young, elderly, physically challenged or overweight, the tourists who want to see snow are required to   for about two hours from Gulaba, the point on  , beyond which   are not allowed.

 “We had not expected that getting a glimpse of some snow will force us to work hard on hiking. This area is very far from Gulaba and is reachable only after steep climb. Only a physically fit person can reach here,” said Radhika Patel, a tourist from Gujarat.
 
 With beginning of the month of May, thousands of tourists have made beeline to Manali to get respite from scorching heat of plains and to have glimpse of snow. Snow in the lower areas has melted away and is available in Marhi, Rohtang and upper areas. Small patches of snow are available in Rahla fall which is quite far from Gulaba. As tourists have spent huge amount on their trip only to see snow, they are forced to walk uphill for hours.
 
 Dattatri, a tourist from Bangalore, said he had come to Manali with his family of five including their parents. But their parents could not climb and had returned to Gulaba from midway. “We are told that vehicles are not allowed beyond Gulaba and trek to this place is the only option. The reward of the hard climb is small patches of snow which have turned muddy,” he said
 
 Him-Aanchal Taxi Operators Union president Raj Kumar Dogra said tourists are not happy and are returning home with a negative message that snow is not for all in Manali. “Administration should allow tourists till Marhi where snow is in abundance. We shall meet the deputy commissioner on Tuesday and request him to start issuing online permits for Rohtang. We are ready to go only till Marhi on the same permit after paying permission fees. Only then we can appease tourists,” he said.
 
 Believing that driving beyond Gulaba is not safe, district administration has ordered not to let any tourist vehicle move beyond the check post at Gulaba. Only the vehicles going to Lahaul with local people are being allowed to go towards Rohtang. Soon the limited number of tourists would be allowed to go towards Rohtang after obtaining permits online. Administration is making the permit issuing and checking system completely digital and is preparing for its first trial. Daily limit of online permit to go to Rohtang is 400 diesel and 800 petrol vehicles.
 
 
