GUWAHATI: All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) chief and MP   has accused the BJP-led state government of being 'biased' by targeting a particular community in the name of eviction from encroached government lands in the state. 

 
 Saying that his party is never opposed to freeing government land from encroachers, Ajmal said, "There are proper procedures laid down for carrying out eviction drives on encroached lands. The recent evictions were carried out without proper rehabilitation or compensation packages in place," added Ajmal.
 
 AIUDF general secretary   said even as government records state that 23.3% of state's land is under encroachment, authorities concerned are only targeting char lands (river islands on Brahmaputra) and a particular community for carrying out eviction drives.
 
 According to statistics, 1,71,86,897 bighas of government land spread over Dhemaji, Lakhimpur, Kamrup (Rural), Kamrup (Metro) and many other districts is encroached, he said. He added that a large chunk of land has been encroached upon by tea gardens.
 
 "Assam's land is encroached by neighbouring states too. But we do not see the government taking any steps in this regard. Rather, a selective approach is being made for eviction in places where a particular community has been dwelling. This is not right. There are also huge chunks of forest land encroached upon by powerful people. But we don't see any action," Islam said.
 
 Ajmal also accused both the Centre and state government of going slow in updating the   (NRC) despite clear instructions by the Supreme Court to expedite the process.
 
 "The pace of NRC update is slow. At this speed, we don't think the draft NRC will be ready by March this year. The Centre is not releasing the necessary funds for NRC update. As a result, work is getting affected," said Ajmal.
 
 Asked about AIUDF MLA Aminul Islam's suspension for live-streaming his speech in the assembly through the social media, Ajmal said he made a mistake by not taking prior permission from the speaker on this matter. 
 
 
