The luxury sedan that comes to a halt on the busy   road does elicit some curiosity from onlookers. When four youngsters, dressed in their blingy best, alight, the curiosity is compounded. But before the crowd can enquire, another car rolls in carrying a camera crew and a director yelling ‘Cut!’ 

  
  Anshul (L), who plays a fashion designer, giving the protagonists tips on how to dress
 
 
  The cast and crew of the upcoming web series The Desi K have been shooting in Greater Noida’s Sector 127 for the past week. The show deals with four Delhi youngsters who become the desi version of the Kardashians and go viral on the internet. The show’s title is itself a reference to the Kardashians. 
 
  Talking about the show’s theme, the director,  , tells us, “It’s the story of four friends from simple backgrounds who stay together in a rented house, and to escape their dull lives, they decide to turn their lives into a reality show along the lines of 'Keeping Up With The Kardashians'.”
 
  
  An outdoor shot featuring Anshul (in black hoodie), who plays a fashion designer, taking place in Sector 127, Greater Noida (BCCL/ Lokesh Kashyap)
 
  Kanu Priya adds, “The show follows their journey through their transformation from simple students and young professionals into the desi Kardashians.” The cast and the crew have been shooting at a housing project in Greater Noida’s Sector 127 that doubles up as the luxury villa the protagonists stay in. Some outdoor shots have been taken on the   as well.
 
  For the actors, most of whom also worked together in the campus drama Karmbhoomi before this show, it was quite a contrast and challenge getting used to the flamboyance of this show. Noida’s Guncha Dwivedi, one of the show’s four leads, says, “It’s very different from my previous show Karmbhoomi, which was a simple campus show. Here, the focus is so much on how you look and the extravagant sets and costumes. It’s all so new.” Some of the outdoor sequences of the show have earned the cast and crew quite a few surprised reactions from the locals, since they shoot mostly with luxury vehicles like limousines. Jasvinder Singh, one of the show’s leads, recounts, “We shot on the Expressway in a limousine the other day, and the attention we got was amazing. For a moment, we felt like stars with so many people mobbing us, but later, we realized ki unko sirf car se matlab tha. They didn’t care who was inside.”
 
  
  
 
  While the principal cast consists of actors who have some experience in front of the camera, much of the rest of the crew comprises students and interns from NCR, barring a few experienced veterans. “We have architecture students in the art direction team, photography interns as part of the photography team... even some of the people looking after costumes and production are students,” says Kanu Priya. For most of these youngsters, it was their first experience being part of a TV production and they were quite excited about that. Raghav, an architecture student from IP University who was part of the set design team, said, “I always wanted to get involved in something like set design and art direction, so this was a good opportunity, and quite exciting because I have never done anything like this. It has been fun working with such experienced people and learning new things.”
 
  
  
 
 
 
