NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind   on Monday denied in the high court that he ever instructed   to use   against Union finance minister Arun  .

 In an affidavit filed before Justice Manmohan, the AAP convener — who is facing defamation cases filed by Jaitley — clarified that he has written a letter to   to refute the veteran lawyer’s claim that he had the CM’s authority to use the words before the joint registrar on May 17.
 
 Kejriwal has said it is “inconceivable that he would even think of instructing the senior counsel to use such objectionable words” and denied the charge. He has also informed the court that he even instructed his counsel on record, Anupam Srivastava, to remind Jethmalani that no such instructions were issued to him during his meeting with him.
 
 Jethmalani, during the May 17 proceedings, had claimed that the words were used by him in pursuance to instructions received from the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief.
 
 The cross-examination of Jaitley by Jethmalani on May 17 had witnessed heated exchanges between them.
 
 Jaitley, who had filed the civil defamation suit claiming Rs 10 crore damages from Kejriwal and five other AAP members, filed another defamation suit of Rs 10 crore against the chief minister following Jethmalani’s utterances.
 
 Due to the May 17 incident, the proceedings in the first lawsuit had been adjourned till July 28.
 
 The BJP leader also filed an application, through advocate Manik Dogra, to expedite the recording of evidence in an orderly and fair manner in the first Rs 10-crore defamation suit against Kejriwal and the five AAP leaders for allegations of corruption made by them against him.
 
 The application for expedited hearing claimed that “numerous irrelevant and scandalous questions have been asked during the cross examination” of the Union minister and that “abusive and defamatory statements have been made” on the instructions of Kejriwal.
 
 In response the CM has stated he never delayed the proceedings in the present civil suit and argued that Jaitley’s charge is misconceived, more so since the main suit is moving at a pace faster than most of the suits pending in the high court.
 
 
