Vasudevan Baskaran’s voice is laced with pride when he talks of his Loyola College, Chennai, alumnus. The legendary Vijay Amritraj and the late tennis pro Jay Royappa. 

 “We were called dark, darker, darkest,” Baskaran, the captain of the Moscow Olympic gold medal-winning Indian hockey team says. He pauses before adding, “I was ‘darkest’.”
 
 The energetic declaration is followed by an infectious laugh that echoes through the telephone line.
 
 “Blacky played 287 matches for India,” Baskaran says, “They couldn’t break my spirit.”
 
 Nicknames like ‘kaala’, ‘karuppan’, ‘kariya’ and ‘blacky’ are carelessly attached to those of a darker skin-colouring. As if it were a stamp or a badge.
 
 It is nasty, but it can be an endearment, too.
 
 In a country where fairness creams rank among top-selling cosmetics, with special edition features for men, sobriquets based on the colour of one’s skin may be par for the course, but nevertheless is a disturbing social trend.
 
 It’s not a comment on the colour of one’s shirt, but a judgement on the shade of a person’s skin. It’s abusive, it alienates.
 
 India cricketer  , who wears a scrumptious cafe au lait on his skin, recently called out the bullying pattern. In his tweet, Abhinav said he was writing ‘with the hope of changing the mindset of people about an issue I feel strongly about’. He went on to state that though he has ‘toughened up’ now, these comments affected him when he was young.
 
 The 27-year-old told TOI Sports that his tweet – which incidentally was backed by his captain Virat Kohli, who will no longer endorse fairness products because of its racist slant -- was triggered by a comment on the same platform which went to the tune of, ‘You are from south (India) and everyone from south are kaala.’
 
  
  
 
 It’s a poignant revelation of a permanent scar when Abhinav says, “Over the years, it has become normal to be called ‘Blacky’.”
 
 How dare! How wrong! How unfair!
 
 Abhinav adds with a tone that doesn’t falter or betray emotion, “Growing up, I was often told I was getting darker because I played an outdoor sport. Do they expect you to give up your dreams just so that you don’t get darker?”
 
 And so what if you get darker?
 
 “It’s my skin,” as Baskaran says, “the colour I was born with.”
 
 Racial slurs, sledging and bullying aren’t new to sport, but colour-coding is largely an Indian, perhaps even Asian, feature. While none of it should have any place in society or sport, this sectarian slander has a way of invading the psyche of an athlete, especially when the going isn’t good.
 
 Former India cricketer Sujith Somasundar, now a mental toughness coach, says it can alter the mindset of an athlete as a ‘distraction or a disturbance’.
 
 “People are different, and so are their reactions, but if these comments find a way of inhabiting your head, for whatever reason, it can result in an error of judgement. Picking the wrong ball, a slight hesitation,” he says, “Sometimes because you are lacking in confidence, maybe due to a string of poor performances, it becomes an additional distraction. Then you start trying too hard and it can become a complex situation.”
 
 US-based sports psychologist and mental conditioning coach Badri Narayanan -- who works with a range of Indian athletes including cricketer Shikhar Dhawan – talks of the mind-body sync, saying one can get infected with a thought that they are ‘not worthy or good enough’. Badri says it’s not uncommon for athletes of a darker skin tone to be abused on social media when they express themselves, making perfectly sensible comments. “These trolls, when taken personally, take one out of the zone. They can make an athlete stiff and uncomfortable, despite having an excellent game that can challenge or beat anybody. It affects performance and even potential.”
 
 Man or woman, no one is spared on social media. With the latter, it’s more veiled than direct and is often brushed aside, rather than dealt with. Which again doesn’t hold true for everybody, because it’s still an individual thing, action and reaction.
 
 Dhanraj Pillay, former India hockey captain who represented the country in four Olympic Games, says he wasn’t yet a teenager when the issue of colour first stained his mind space.
 
 Then. “I looked into the mirror and I saw my colour wasn’t like everybody else,” he says.
 
 Pillay, who ran with the wind and weighed in with the force of a tornado before opposition goalposts, adds, “I became a lot more comfortable in my skin after I gained recognition. So many people praised my skills, so many clubs from all over the world wanted me to play for them, Australians and Europeans... I thought then that it was ok.”
 
  
  
 
 Pillay, mercurial and maverick and who turned out for India 339 times, points out, “I was in a team of beautiful players -- Pargat Singh, Jude Felix, Edgar Mascarenhas... I saw that I didn’t look like them, I was dark. I felt even worse when we travelled away, to Australia and Europe, because everyone is so fair. You feel inferior in a social situation, but when I got the ball with the stick in my hand, all things became equal. I was in charge.
 
 “Even now, in red-carpet events, people treat you differently, the organizers, the media,” the 49-year-old says with a laugh that’s smattered with bitter. “They always put the picture of the good-looking fellow. Friends call you ‘kaala’… I used to tell them, black is beautiful. Now I don’t mind, I don’t care... This is the colour of my skin.”
 
 Psychologists are quick to fall back on social constructs or research which shows that good-looking people find it easier to get jobs or make money, which may well be the case, but looks don’t win matches. Besides, dark can be dazzling, too.
 
 Ask Inivalappil Mani Vijayan or   -- whose international football career spanned three decades, and whose considerable attacking skills won him a Pied Piper-like following across the country -- if he considers himself good looking.
 
 He responds with a completely apposite question. “Why is that important?”
 
  
  
 
 “Pele, Mohammad Ali, Michael Jordan, Usain Bolt.... The best of athletes, all dark-skinned. I’m in good company,” Vijayan says, adding that colour was never an issue for him. “If anyone said anything, I would give it to them twice as bad,” says the man who along with Bhaichung Bhutia made up the country’s strike force in the 90s.
 
 The Chennai-born former Indian pacer Lakshmipathy Balaji, 35, says growing up, he didn’t know what sunscreen meant.
 
 “I didn't allow colour taunts to bother me. It didn't matter what people thought of me or if I was getting darker. The only thing that mattered was cricket and the joy I derived from playing the sport,” he says. “People may try to get under your skin, but it is very important, especially for youngsters, to understand that is the colour you are born with. It is you. You have to take pride in who you are and how you look.” 
 
 Balaji was quick to count his blessings. “I come from a protected family environment where I got nothing but love and support,” he says. “I was raised with the concept of beauty being a state of mind. I've played for my country, won people's love and admiration not because of the way I looked, but because of who I am on the field. I’ve always been a proud Indian cricketer. That's my identity.”
 
 Somasundar seconds Balaji. “It is not enough to accept it,” he pointed out. “You have to embrace it, be proud of it. That pride then reflects in your personality, in your walk and talk which you can then carry onto the field.”
 
 There’s an illicit understanding that comes into play when friends or family indulge in ‘good-natured banter’. You want to understand, ignore it, brush it aside. Smile with them. It’s a whole different equation when it comes from the unknown. But is society so lacking in imagination that one must fall back on the colour of another’s skin for a nickname?
 
  Blacky, really? Or ‘kaala’, ‘karuppan’, ‘kariya’? Is that the best you can do?
 
 Somasundar says it must be eliminated at an early stage, be it school or social circumstances. Then, the chances of it spilling over to the unknown are that much less.
 
  Abhinav says, “In this time of computers and smart phones, people hide behind gadgets and get abusive. That's why I used the same platform to express myself.” Interestingly, much of the kudos the Chennai-based bat got was from the fraternity. “A lot of former players spoke to me after my post. They had also endured the same slights, but didn’t have the platform that I now have to express their views.”
 
 Basakaran, 67, often gets calls from contemporaries, who greet him with, ‘Hey kaala’. The man who led Indian hockey to its last global triumph some 37 summers ago makes it a point to respond with, ‘Hey gora’.
 
 “I’m proud of who I am,” he says, adding that he hoped the man at the other end of the telephone line also felt the same.
 
 
