KOLHAPUR: The   of Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) has been losing Rs 5 lakh per day due to illegal passenger transport on various routes in the city and rural areas. 

 Kolhapur division of MSRTC comprises 12 depots at the taluka level and the illegal passenger transport operating in these areas affects the daily revenue of the division. 
 
 Divisional controller Kolhapur division Navneet Bhanap said, "The illegal passenger transport has crippled state transport services in rural areas. Even the important routes in the city have become vulnerable to illegal passenger transport. We have been losing minimum revenue of Rs 5 lakh per day." 
 
 Yellow-black jeeps and taxis have permit to operate on specific routes in the district, but they openly flout the rules. They often also ferry extra passengers on their routes, depriving the MSRTC of customers. 
 
 "Illegal transporters operate freely in rural parts as they hardly punished. We have demanded strict action against illegal transport by the Regional Transport office (RTO). One of our vehicles and officer has been deployed to assist the   to take action against illegal transport," he said.
 
 Abhay Kadam, in-charge of Central Bus Stand (CBS), said many routes offering connectivity to the city have illegal passenger transport services. "Routes like Kolhapur-Rankala, Rankala-Bhambvade, railway station-Malkapur, Kolhapur-Ichalkaranjia and   have many illegal transport operators. They operate vans, jeeps and newer passenger vehicles. The transport office should take strict action against owners of such vehicles," he said.
 
 Another MSRTC official said the illegal operators are aware of frequency of buses and target passengers who reach the bus stops ten or fifteen minutes ahead of schedule. "The illegal operators offer concessional rate to passengers. The RTO officials hardly act against such vehicles," he said.
 
 Manager of Ichalkaranji depot D S Patil said, "The illegal transporters, such as six seaters and vans, snatch passenger standing outside bus stand and offer concessional rates. They operate on Kagal, Kabnur,Hupari and Sangli routes." 
 
