PUNE: Rise in   due to the   has Puneites, especially students and their parents, worried.

 Doctors TOI contacted confirmed the rise in cases over the last two weeks. Depending upon the area, they claimed of treating between 5-6 and   every day.
 
 The chickenpox (varicella) is a   that causes an itchy, blister-like rash and high-grade fever. It is highly contagious to people who haven't had the disease or been vaccinated against it, the doctors said.
 
 Paediatrician Jayant Joshi, who practises in the Vishrantwadi and the Karve Road areas, said, “I am seeing about 15-16 patients of chickenpox every day. The cases this year are higher when compared with the last three years. Majority of these patients are in 5-15 years age group. Schoolgoing children are the worst affected.“
 
 Fluctuating temperature provides fitting atmosphere for the growth of all types of viruses, including that of chickenpox, paediatrician Sharad Agarkhedkar said. “Besides, the vaccine against the disease was in short supply last year. This may have led to susceptible population that is getting infected this year,“ he added.
 
 Senior general practitioner Prakash Mahajan operating in the Sahakarnagar area claimed of treating about 5-6 patients every day. “There has been a significant rise in chickenpox cases in the last 15 days. People in the age group of 5 to 25 years are worst affected. Since it's exam time, there is lot of anxiety among students and their parents,“ he said.
 
 An infected person develops water-filled rash called vesicles from the very first day of onset of fever. This distinguishes chickenpox from other viral infections with rash such as measles, hand foot and mouth disease where rashes appear on the third or fourth day.
 
 “These water-filled rashes are very contagious and any contact with them can spread the infection,“ Mahajan said, adding that once bacterial infection occurs, it can lead to permanent scars especially on the face of the patient. “Hence, it is advisable not to scratch or rub the rashvesicles despite itching,“ he said.
 
 The severity of the infection occurs when the patient is an adolescent or an adult in the age bracket of 15 to 25 years. “Infected patients in the age bracket of 15 years and above need to watch out for chicken pox associated pneumonia that can occur towards the end of the infection,“ Mahajan added.
 
