NEW DELHI: “Read on....,” said the   on Wednesday when advocate   was stressing the entry ‘Guj CM’ and ‘Modiji’ in the Birla-Sahara diaries and the names tumbled out to include the who’s who in politics.

 As Bhushan read out the names in the jam-packed courtroom before a bench of Justices Arun Kumar Mishra and Amitava Roy, senior advocate and   leader Salman Khurshid faced embarrassing moments as his name figured four times in the hand-written ‘payment list’ allegedly recovered during   raid on Sahara group companies in 2014. Khurshid was sitting in the second row before the bench.
 
 The other names mentioned in the list were —“Sushma Swaraj ji, Chandrababu ji, Mulayam Singh ji, Mayawati ji, Pramod ji’s daughter, Shivraj ji, Chief ministers of Rajasthan and Bihar, Lalu ji, Advani ji, Ravishankar, Shinde ji, Farooq Abdullah ji, Udhav Thakrey and Raj Thakrey and Digvijay Singh.” Another acronym “DADA” figured four times in the list and no one dared to guess who it could be. Against each name, an amount was mentioned. It bore uncanny resemblance to the Jain-hawala diary entries which created a turmoil in the political circles in the mid 1990s after a CBI probe, monitored by the Supreme Court, led to filing of chargesheets against top political leaders. Only difference between the Jain-hawala and Sahara-Birla diaries is that in the former, initials of political leaders were written, while in the latter full names are mentioned.
 
 The trial court had framed charges against the accused politicians including L K Advani and V C Shukla. But the Delhi high court quashed the cases terming the diary entries as inadmissible evidence. Ironically, the SC, whose monitoring of the probe had led to filing of chargesheets, upheld the HC order discharging the politicians from Hawala case.
 
 When this case was relied upon by Bhushan to drive home the point that mere mention of initials in the Jain-Hawala diary was sufficient for the SC to order registration of FIR followed by investigations, the bench said: “It was an intolerable irony. On one hand the SC said investigate and prosecute, on the other hand it said no evidence, so discharge. What role the Vineet Narain case played at that point of time, it is not for us to judge.”
 
 Answering Bhushan’s argument based on Lalita Kumari case judgement that FIR registration was a must when a document revealed cognizable offence, the bench recalled that a false sexual assault complaint was lodged against a Chief Justice and the SC had quashed it saying if such frivolous complaints were entertained, it could spell doom for democracy. “We have personal experience of many lawyers filing false cases. We had proceeded against them. To treat a complaint gospel truth to make registration of FIR a must would be dangerous,” the bench said.
 
 
