NEW DELHI: Turkish President Recep Tayyip  , on his two-day tour to India, will be presented with an honorary doctorate degree at   Millia Islamia.

 “Erdogan will visit the campus as Jamia is the only institution in the country which provides academic courses in Turkish language and literature. We have certificate as well as diploma courses and advanced diploma covering both Ottoman and modern Turkish language,” said Mohsin Ali, founder of Turkish department Jamia.
 
 Speaking on the relation between Turkey and India, Ali said both the nations have an old relationship. “Our Bhakti movement and the teachings of Maulana Jalaluddin Rumi, both talk about intolerance and peace.” “This event will boost the educational relationship between the countries. More than 30 students of our university have gone to Turkey for the student-exchange programme so far,” he added.
 
 Some students and alumni, however, have opposed the decision claiming that Erdogen has been involved in “blatant human rights violation and has become a dictator in Turkey.”
 
 There are campaigns against the felicitation. On a website, change.org, started by a Jamia alumnus, Shuddhabrata Sengupta, an appeal has been made to reverse the decision.
 
 In the petition directed to Jamia VC Talat Ahmed, Sengupta said, “Erdogan, who has won a fraudulent plebiscite in order to crown himself an unchallenged dictator of Turkey, is a toxic influence in Turkish public life, in west Asia and in the world. He has stifled dissent, cracked down on the rights of working people, women and minorities in Turkey and is conducting a brutal war on the people of Kurdistan.”
 
 Criticising the campaign Ali said “This is done by a section of students who are supporters of Islamic preacher Fetullah Gulen.” Gulen, the exiled preacher and politician has blamed Erdogan of attempting a coup against him in July last year.
 
 Saima Saeed, deputy media coordinator Jamia said “The President’s visit is part of a state visit and those protesting against the honour have no idea about it. One should not give cognizance to these fringe elements.” 
 
 The President will be in the county on April 30 and during his visit, both the nations will be exploring ways to strengthen anti-terror cooperation and deepen trade ties.
 
