NEW DELHI: Survival instinct often forces people to make behavioural changes in times of fear and anxiety. And the killing of engineer Srinivas   in Kansas seems to have prompted a similar response from an Indian group. 

 An association of Telangana NRIs has issued an advisory on its Facebook page asking those from the state in the US to avoid confrontation or speaking in their mother tongue in public spaces. The general secretary of the Virginia-based   (TATA), Vikram Jangam, offers the following “tips”: “Do not get into argument (sic) with others at public places. Should someone be provoking you, avoid confronting (sic) and please leave the place immediately. As much as we love talking in our mother tongue, it can often be misconstrued. Please see if you can communicate in English in public places.” It further goes on to advise community members to avoid deserted areas and to call 911 in case of an emergency. 
 
 TATA president-elect Mahender Reddy Musuku sees a need for greater participation by Indians in American society, “which is lacking now”. He plans to organize awareness drives, online and on the ground, about India and Indians. “We’re taking a multi-pronged approach to create awareness among Caucasians to understand our culture and peaceful nature of Indians,” Musuku repiled to TOI’s queries.
 
 In the light of the current political climate, clinical psychologist Dr Avdesh Sharma sees the response as prudent as long as it does not slip into paranoia. “It’s like how we say that in an airplane, don’t even joke about bombs. In a free country, it shouldn’t be a problem. Given the present circumstances, these are things (not speaking in the mother tongue in public, not getting into confrontations, etc) that one learns over time. It is prudent caution, though it shouldn’t mean living with paranoia,” says Sharma. “Probably what needs to be done is to reduce the tensions that seem to be felt by people of nondominant religions, or people who think they stand out,” he says. 
 
 Sociologist Dipankar Gupta sees some of these suggestions as similar to what one would recommend against muggers. As far as the advisory on language is concerned, he doesn’t see it making much of a difference. “When you speak in English, even then it can be clear that it isn’t your own language. With those of second generation (settlers) there, it may create an ambiguity. This is very contextual,” he says. 
 
 Kuchibhotla and his friend Alok Madasani were at a bar in Olathe, Kansas last week when a 51-year-old American, identified as Adam W Purinton, called out to them to get out of the country and shot at them. Kuchibhotla did not survive the attack, while Madasani was injured. A 24-year-old American, Ian Grillot, was also injured in the scuffle as he tried to apprehend the shooter. 
 
 The incident took place weeks after US President Donald Trump introduced changes to the country’s immigration policy.
 
