Nagpur: If Mahametro manages to begin commercial operation of Nagpur Metro’s at grade section by December, it will be the fastest one in the country. Lucknow Metro made a 8.5km stretch operational in 36 months. Mahametro may make a 5.4km stretch operational in 30 months. It promises to make another 5 to 6km stretch operational in another six months. The formal trial run of the at grade stretch will be held on September 30. According to Mahametro managing director Brijesh Dixit, the commercial operation will start in December end. Work on the project had started on May 31, 2015. Commenting on the overall project, Dixit said that 50% work had been completed and 32% financial progress had been achieved. “We have so far spent Rs2,000 crore. This amount was received from central government, state government and lending agencies KfW and Agence Francaise de Developpement (AFD).” Dixit showed the Nagpur Metro coaches to the media on Thursday. The coaches have a TV screen above the door. “This will display the digital route map and indicate the position of the train,” he said. “The coaches will have other screens which will display advertisements or Metro messages. They also have chain pulleys for emergency door release. If a passenger wants to stop the train, he or she can contact the train operator (driver) through a mike,” Dixit further said. Each coach will have four close circuit television (CCTV) cameras. There will be total 12 such cameras in the train and the driver will able to see the footages of four of them at a time. “The carrying capacity of the three coaches is around 950 but they can accommodate up to 1,200 persons during peak hours. There are 144 seats in the train,” a Metro official said. Mahametro is launching Mahacard, a common mobility card, in association with SBI. It will be an open loop card, which can be used anywhere. Other Metros have closed loop cards that can be used only for Metro travel. However, for those not comfortable with using the card, Mahametro will print bar coded tickets.