PANAJI: Putting an end to speculation, the   formally announced that chief minister and former defence minister  , would contest the   , his ‘home turf’- for the  .

 While confirming the development, state BJP president   said the party has begun preparing to ensure Parrikar wins from the constituency. The bypolls will have to be held before September. 
 
 Last week, TOI had reported that Parrikar had finalised his plans to contest from Panaji. 
 
 Sitting BJP MLA Sidharth Kuncalienker resigned from the state legislature on Wednesday leading to speculations that the bypoll might be held earlier than expected. The other constituency where bypolls will be held is Valpoi as Vishwajit Rane who is the health minister resigned from the Congress to join BJP. 
 
 Parrikar, who took over as the chief minister of Goa after the March 11 election results, is expected to resign from the Rajya Sabha after the presidential elections.
 
 The BJP’s central leadership is focused on the presidential polls as it will have a President of its choice after a thumping win in the recent assembly elections. Parrikar, therefore, has been asked to hold off his resignation till President Pranab Mukherjee’s successor is elected in July.
 
 “On March 11, when the results came, an unanimous decision was taken to have Manohar Parrikar as the CM. Given that a fractured mandate had been given, a strong and capable leader was required for Goa’s future, someone who could take all the leaders and the people ahead,” Kuncalienker said after submitting his resignation.
 
 Kuncalienker who is currently the chairman of Goa Economic development corporation (EDC), is being considered by the party for Rajya Sabha. The term of Goa’s lone member in the house of elders, Shantaram Naik (Congress) ends later this year. “Chief minister will take the call on whether KUncalienker will be nominated for the Rajya Sahba polls”, a BJP official said.
 
 As Parrikar’s protege, Kuncalienker was virtually gifted the Panaji constituency after Parrikar was elevated to the post of defence minister. However, the drubbing received by the BJP in the recently concluded assembly elections forced the BJP’s central leadership to allow Parrikar to return to the helm of state affairs. Parrikar had been wanting to come back to state politics for more than a year now since early 2016 and the opportunity came when the alliance partners gave a letter o f support with a condition that they would support the BJP-led government only if it was led by Parrikar.
 
 Though Parrikar was sworn in as the chief minister, he requires to be elected within six months of his appointment.
 
 “We will wait for the election commissioner to declare the byelections for Valpoi and Panaji. In both the seats, we want to win with the people’s support and the party’s strength. And we will win. I have no doubt that Parrikar will win the elections with a comfortable margin. The people are with him,” Tendulkar said.
 
 The party has yet to formulate what role Kuncalienker will play in the party. Kuncalienker and Curchorem MLA Nilesh Cabral had volunteered to resign to make way for Parrikar.
 
 “The MLA has just submitted his resignation from the post of MLA and it is being processed. Once it is processed by the legislature secretary, he will be relieved of the post. He has not given any reason,” speaker of Goa assembly Pramod Sawant said.
 
 Mayor of the Corporation of the City of Panaji, Surendra Furtado, who contested and lost against Kuncalienker in November 2015, said he was open to contesting against Parrikar if the Congress approached him.
 
 “No party has approached me with a ticket. I am a Congressman and if I contest, I will contest on the Congress ticket. I will meet the Congress leaders in Goa and in Delhi and discuss my terms and conditions,” Furtado said.
 
 
