BENGALURU: More than two years after a veteran of the 1971 Indo-Pak war was found murdered in his house in Huskur off Hosur Road, Bengaluru rural police have cracked the case. Five men arrested by the cops re cently have confessed to the crime.

  commodore   was a decorated officer and the former director of the   (LCA) programme.
 
 Khokhar was found dead in his villa at a gated community in community in Huskur on November 24, 2014. Srinivas, 21, Girish, 33, Subramani, 29, Nagaraj, 28 and   were arrested on February 9.
 
 Interrogation revealed that the accused had closely watched the IAF officer's house for two days before breaking and entering it. The five are a part of a larger 12-member gang, police said. Superintendent of police, Bengaluru rural, Amit Singh said, “On November 23, 2014, the five arrived at Khokhar's community by an SUV , which they parked near the entrance of the gated community .Four of them ventured inside the colony , while Satyanarayana remained near the vehi cle. Once they reached Khokhar's house, Girish stayed outside to signal them in the event of trouble.“
 
 He added that the men entered the house from the terrace after failing to open the front door. “They had gone through two rooms in se two rooms in search of valuables, when they were spotted by the officer.When Khokhar tried to nab them, they overpowered him.They tied his hands and legs using a cloth and sealed his mouth. It doesn't appear to be a case of planned murder,“ Singh said. However, the thieves found no valuables in the house. The murder was cracked by a special team that was formed to investigate a series of break-ins in Bengaluru Rural that were reported last year. One of these was the break-in into the house -located 500m from Khokhar's -of a prominent builder on July 20, 2016, where the thieves made away with gold, a pistol, 20 bullets and land documents. One of the five arrested men confessed to Khokhar's murder during interrogation “We questioned them separately, and asked them to recreate the crime scene, just to confirm if they were telling the truth. Their versions of the incident matched, and we were sure we had solved the case,“ Singh said.
 
 The arrest of the gang has brought as many as 19 cases to their conclusion. Valuables worth Rs 1.25 crore, in addition to a pistol and 21 rounds of ammunition have been recovered from the men. Land documents worth Rs 60 crore have also been seized.
 
 
