NEW DELHI: With   approaching the   on Monday to stake claim to Samajwadi Party’s poll   ‘cycle’ and the   faction planning a similar claim on Tuesday, there is a likelihood of EC asking the two groups to contest as two different parties with a set of new symbols. 

 Sources in Nirvachan Sadan indicated that the EC, after studying the conflicting claims by Mulayam Singh Yadav and Akhilesh Yadav to representing the real   and with the UP polls round the corner, may opt for freezing the symbol for the time being. The EC may, in a speaking order, ask both factions to contest under different names — for instance, Samajwadi Party (Mulayam) and Samajwadi Party (Akhilesh) — and choose a new set of symbols from its list of ‘free’ symbols or suggest a symbol of their choice. 
 
 “The EC may allot the suggested symbol if there is no objection,” said an officer. “A close precedent is the split in Janata Dal before the 1999 Lok Sabha election. The EC had then ‘frozen’ JD’s poll symbol ‘wheel’. It recognised the two split factions as Janata Dal (United), alloting it the symbol ‘arrow’, and Janata Dal(Secular), which got to contest on the poll symbol ‘farmer driving tractor’. The ‘wheel’ symbol remains frozen till date,” said a senior EC officer. 
 
 While the ‘cycle’ symbol may be frozen, EC can resume hearing on the claims as to which of the two factions should be allowed to use the nomenclature ‘Samajwadi Party’ and retain the original symbol, once the UP polls are over. This adjudication process is likely to be a protracted affair and a final verdict may take months to come. 
 
 Incidentally, while asking the two SP factions to fight under a different party name, EC may forego the normal process associated with registering a political party. In the normal course, a party has to submit its claim and put out a public notice regarding floating of the party and inviting objections. 
 
 “This process may not be required in this case and the EC may immediately register the two split factions as separate parties under names chosen by them,” said an officer.
 
