Cleared/Ali

 Coimbatore: The   (CFI), a student organisation, and Left parties in the city wanted the state government to initiate criminal action against city police commissioner A Amalraj after he labeled some outfits as anti-national and anti-social. 
 
 Amalraj who had met reporters here on Tuesday had said that the police had evidence to prove that members of CFI, Makkal Athigaram, Naam Tamilzhar and other anti-social outfits infiltrated into the pro-jallikattu protest venue and raised seditious slogans. He said after the police disbursed the crowd, members of these outfits indulged in violence.
 
 The CFI plans to take legal action against the police commissioner. State general secretary of CFI L Abdur Rahman said they had been part of the protest since Day 1. 
 
 “We have been fighting for the student’s rights and their education for several years. We also indulge in social service and involve in serving the society constructively. We do not understand what the commissioner means by anti-national? Does fighting for Tamil tradition and to help students’ anti-national?” he asked. 
 
 He said they were present at VOC Park for six days and why was it that only on the last day when they tried to forcibly remove the students, there was violence on our part. “If we were anti-national, why did they not take action for six days?” he asked. 
 
 He said the outfit condemned the statement and would take legal action against the commissioner. “This is just an attempt to divert the attention of public from the police atrocities. There is video evidence of police setting autos on fire and beating up innocent women. This is proof that they were responsible for the violence,” he said. 
 
 The outfit also requested the state government to take action against Amalraj for indulging in violence and lathi-charging at innocent students.
 
 State secretariat of CPM K Kanagaraj said the police department across the state had indulged in excesses on January 23. “Even in Coimbatore, police lathi-charged peaceful protesters and there were incidents of police crossing their limits. But Amalraj had labeled a few organisations as anti-social and anti-national. The outfits that he mentioned have not been banned by the government. If they were anti-nationals, the government should set up a committee and look into it. He also specifically mentioned some of the Communist outfits such as DYFI, SFI and also used the word tholar,” said Kanagaraj. 
 
 He said all officers when they join the service take an oath to not be biased based on religion or caste. “We want the state government to suspend Amalraj and take criminal action against him,” said the members. 
 
 The party members also said that just because a few students made some comments in the crowd, he cannot blame an organisation and label and brand these organisations. 
 
 
