CHENNAI: Chennai is among the country's hottest cities, not just because of its   but also because it's second on a heat index (HI) as evaluated by a government study analysing maximum temperatures and   levels in 25 megacities.

 The higher the heat index, the hotter one feels -`real feel weather' -because high humidity causes sweat to evaporate at a slower rate.
 
 The authors of the study released their results at a time when the city is still recovering from a failed northeast monsoon this year that produced only about 40% of its average rainfall.
 
 Among the top 12 hottest cities in the study are four in the south, including Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Visakhapatnam -which tops the list.
 
 Chennai experiences temperatures as high as 43°C at the peak of summer. The study finds that the city touches 49.5°C on the heat index (HI, or real feel weather) in the summer and 49.9°C HI during the rainy season. In comparison, Visakhapatnam reaches 50.4°C (summer HI) and 47.5°C (monsoon HI).
 
 Madurai records 47.6°C (summer HI) and 45.3°C (monsoon HI), while Trichy posts 48.4°C (summer HI) and 45.6 °C (monsoon HI).
 
 Heat index is a measure of stress due to rise in temperature as well as moisture levels.The study used a monthly average maximum temperatures and relative humidity records from 283 surface meteorological stations in India to analyse the heat index during the summer months of March to May and during the monsoon months from June to September over the past 60 years (from 1951to 2010).
 
 The summer heat index is in the “very hot“ category in 17 of the 25 megacities including Mumbai, Pune, Kolkata, Ahmedabad, Hyderabad and Nagpur. An interesting regional phenomenon is the stilling of winds in India. Wind helps evaporate sweat and cools the body,“ said former IMD official A K Jaswal, lead researcher in the study. “Spatially , the rise in the heat index is significant across the country , suggesting a substantial rise in human discomfort and illness aggravated by climate change.“
 
 The country's average heat index has shown a significant decadal increase over the past 60 years. It has risen at a rate of 0.56°C in the summer and 0.32°C per decade in the monsoon.
 
 Perception may also play a part in a real feel weather rise in the city this summer. After Cyclone Vardah made landfall on December 12 just north of the Chennai coast, its extremely powerful winds flattened much of the city's green cover. This, some weathermen averred, may increase ambient temperatures.
 
 However, experts like Regional Meteorological Centre former deputy director general Y E A Raj say the loss of the tree cover is unlikely to cause a rise in temperature.
 
