JALANDHAR: Walking a   from the  , the surroundings change all of a sudden, acquiring that colourful,   typical of   Tamil hoardings about the festival at   greet the eye and sounds of chaste Tamil waft through the street bounded by houses built in the  . 

 This is Madrasi Mohalla, a Tamil settlement near the railway station. Madras may have been renamed Chennai in 1996 but the area continues to be called Madrasi Mohalla. Even the area councillor is from Chennai. 
 
 "We all belong to the same community in Salem district of Tamil Nadu and our settlement is now more than 50 years old," said Ramasamy Settu, owner of a food joint selling south Indian goodies. "Some people from our village had already settled here when I landed around 50 years ago. I also started living here at the time. Now, this is my permanent home," he said.
 
 His wife Mukkar also grew up here. "I was very small when my parents came. Even though we live here and are part and parcel of Punjab, we also keep our identity alive. Television is a major help in this. We watch Tamil news and Tamil shows, it helps us stay abreast with developments in our native place," she said.
 
 Even though the settlers have incorporated two cultures in their lives, they are yet to find a firm foothold in the state. As of now, they are living on the fringes.
 
 "Many of the men work as safai karamcharis in the MC. Some are into odd jobs. We talk in tamil to each other and in Punjabi with the Punjabis," said Ganesh. Incidentally, Ganesh was born here and cannot read or write Tamil.
 
 However, most of the other community members can. "We teach Tamil to our children at home and send them to our home state during vacations. We visit once a year or so," said Mallika. 
 
 The area councillor, Pallanni Swami recounts the struggle faced by the original settlers. "My father told me that our elders migrated to Kanpur and then went to Bathinda before finally settling here. He said our elders were very poor when they came here," he said. Swami is the third Tamil councillor from the area. 
 
