HYDERABAD: The Telangana government has made its contribution towards honouring the legacy of  . Officials of the Telangana State Archives & Research Institute have handed over documents, photographs and books related to the Iron Man of India for display in a museum coming up at Gandhi Nagar, Gujarat, which was Patel's home state.

 The lawyer-turned-freedom fighter, who went on to become the first home minister of independent India, had played an instrumental role in the integration of Hyderabad with the Indian Union. It was he, along with the country's first Prime Minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, who ordered `Operation Polo' to take on the seventh Nizam's army in 1948, forcing   to surrender to the Indian government's authority .
 
 In the years following independence, Patel visited Hyderabad twice and was part of numerous correspondences with the Nizam. It is these photographs, letters and documents that have now been sent to the   (SVPRET).
 
 The trust has made requests to all the state governments to hand over material related to Patel so as to display them in a museum coming up near the proposed `Statue of Unity' in Gujarat. A delegation, including the principal secretary of Gujarat's general administration department, and Sanjay Joshi, the chief manager of SVPRET, had visited the Telangana state archives in Tarnaka in May 2015 with a request for the material available there.
 
 Officials at the state archives spent six months collating the articles. “We found 10 rare photographs of Patel that were taken during his visits to Hyderabad, including one in which he is being welcomed by Osman Ali Khan at Begumpet airport. We also handed over a few rare letters written by Mahatma Gandhi to former prime minister of Hyderabad state Sir Muhammad Akbar Nazar Ali Hydari. All these will now be displayed in the  ,“ said M A Raqeeb, assistant director, State Archives & Research Institute. “Copies have been retained.“
 
 Joshi told TOI that the archival material will be showcased prominently in the Gujarat museum, with specific mention of Telangana's association with them.
 
