DEHRADUN: In the 16 years of existence of Uttarakhand, 2016 was a year which the Congress leaders will never forget. From being witness to the biggest rebellion within their party (when 10 MLAs switched sides) to showing unity under   of central rule, Congress went through various ups and downs in the year that was. Besides, the differences between CM   and state chief   remained in the limelight for most of the year.
 
  Dissent among Congress leaders in the last few years has not been hidden. Barely few months before the   elections in 2014,   had quit the party and the differences between former CM Vijay Bahuguna and his successor Harish Rawat were visible on several occasions.
  
  Finally, Bahuguna led a team of 9 rebel lawmakers against the party during the   in the state assembly on March 18. It was followed by the imposition of central rule in the state, which was withdrawn after Rawat proved his majority in the House on May 10. The move of the rebels came as a major surprise and shock to the party as it comprised senior leaders like Bahuguna, minister Harak Singh Rawat, former minister Amrita Rawat and Subodh Uniyal.
  
  Congress state chief Kishore Upadhyay termed 2016 as a nice learning experience with the loyalists standing by the party and opportunists deserting it. “For us it was good year as we faced some tough times but eventually were successful in sailing through. We can say that all’s well that ends well,” he said. According to Upadhyay, 2016, however, was not a good year for politics. “Rebels have served a wrong example and the state had to suffer because of it. Several projects got delayed only because of the childish approach of the rebel MLAs,” he added.
  
  Upadhyay’s recent statement on one ticket per family left several seniors in an awkward situation as the children of a number of senior members, including the CM, Indira Hridayesh and Yashpal Arya are in the race for tickets.
  
  On being asked about his differences with the CM, Upadhyay said that both were dedicated members of the party and there were no differences between them. “It is only a difference of opinion, which is healthy for the party and the state. This shows people have right to express their opinion in the party,” said the Congress leader.
  
  By the mid of 2016, things started looking better for the Congress as party nominee Pradeep Tamta won the Rajya Sabha seat in June. But the move to appoint him party candidate had left minister Yashpal Arya and Kishore Upadhyay disappointed. Arya met party chief Sonia Gandhi over the issue, whereas Upadhyay had accused the CM of favouring Kumaon region as the CM, speaker, senior ministers and the Rajya Sabha member – all were from the area. Rawat then inducted Navprabhat and Rajendra Bhandari – both MLAs from Garhwal – in his cabinet.
  
  While 10 MLAs of Congress walked out of the party, two lawmakers of BJP came out in support of the ruling party. Ghansali MLA Bhim Lal Arya and Bheemtal legislator Dan Singh Bhandari went against BJP to back the Congress.
