BENGALURU:   on Monday, disrupting normal life, leaving several roads waterlogged and reducing morning peak-hour traffic to a crawl.
The city received 54mm of rain till 8.30am, all of it after 1.30am. According to the Karnataka State  , Bagalakunte recorded the highest rainfall (88mm), followed by Shettihalli (73.5mm), Nagapura (72.5mm) and Varthur (70mm).
 
 One tree fell on Jayamahal Road in the forenoon, affecting traffic movement towards Mehkri Circle. Mysuru Road, roads in Koramangala, BTM Layout, Majestic and Shettihalli were severely waterlogged, causing  . Shettihalli, Bagalakunte, Chokkasandra, Nagapura and Varthur were the worst affected, while parts of central, south, east and west Bengaluru received rather heavy rain in excess of 4cm. Sri Annamma Temple in Gandhinagar was also waterlogged.
 
 Those living around Sarjapur Road complained of waterlogging of roads. “We spent a sleepless Sunday night, waiting for water to enter our home. While the road in front of our house did not get flooded, the next road was waterlogged and slushy,“ said Prakash Singhvi, a resident of Koramangala 4th Block.
 
 Bellandur Lake was frothing again, with residents saying that foam floated on to the road. “It took me one-and-a-half hours to travel the 6km from Carmelaram railway station to Bellandur. Sarjapur Road was flooded, so traffic was crawling.To make matters worse, officials seemed to be fixing potholes at the same time, and cement was flowing on the roads. When I was driving to work, there was 1ft high water on the Bellandur-Varthur Road behind Intel, making it difficult for cars to navigate,“ said Sonali Batra, a resident of Bellandur.
 
 Residents of Green Villa Layout in Junnasandra, off Sarjapur Road, had a hard time accessing the main road. “The main road is full of water, which entered empty plots. Ever since it started raining earlier this month, the main road has been flooded. It was dug up for some work, and this has worsened the situation. Connectivity is hit, with only two-wheelers being able to access the main road. People prefer to walk through the water and use public transport as their cars have got stuck in the mud earlier,“ said Binay Mohanty, a resident.
 
 Those commuting from Hebbal had to contend with traffic jams stretching for hours, as service roads and underpasses were waterlogged. “At Hebbal underpass, there was water-logging for one week, and the situation worsened after Sunday night's rain,“ said P Shivakumar, a resident of Hebbal, who took more than 50 minutes to reach the flyover from Esteem Mall on KIA Road.
 
