PUNE: Small-time traders as well as consumers in the city are facing a strange dilemma. With the easing out of the cash situation, they are in two minds whether or not to use e-wallets.

 Sadashiv Thakur (43), who runs a paan shop along  , stays quiet when enquired repeatedly if he has an e-wallet. “I have my doubts regarding this (digital) mode of payment and therefore have chosen not to tell my customers that I have an  ,” Thakur said, adding that most of his customers insist on making payments through e-wallets.
 
 “However, I want to wait and watch before starting to accept payments through the medium again,” he said.
 
 With more than two months since demonetisation and subsequent crisis, many still want to stick to cash payments even though the situation has far improved.
 
 Akil Pathan, an autorickshaw driver registered with  , said, “I stopped accepting fares via digital mode in the first week of December itself since the money was going into my bank account and I had to face a tough time withdrawing the same owing to the serpentine queues at banks and few functional ATMs. Though the condition has improved now, I am still not open to the idea. Perhaps, I will wait for a month before start accepting payments through Ola Money.”
 
 Shyamrao Tambe, a small-time vegetable-cum-grocery seller in   shared the same opinion. “I need cash every time I visit wholesalers to buy supplies since they do not accept payments by e-wallets or cheques. As far as the cash situation is concerned, it is still far from normal due to shortage of Rs500 notes. The government may have increased the withdrawal limit from ATMs, but most kiosks are still non-functional,” he said. 
 
 Tambe said he will start using the e-wallet once all the ATMs are operational and the withdrawal limit of Rs10, 000 in one go is restored. “Also, the number of customers paying only by e-wallets has to come down,” he added.
 
 However, the consumers TOI contacted were of the opinion that the time is still not ripe to return to cash payments completely. 
 
 “I am sticking to e-wallets or   at least till January-end. Many ATMs are still not operational and also not all shopkeepers are open to the idea of digital payments. So, I need to keep some cash with me all the time, which I use only during emergency situations. For now, wait and watch is the best option,” Sameer Sharma, a professional from Vimannagar, said.
 
