KOLKATA:   will be turning 94 this Sunday. It is a happy coincidence that on that day three films directed by Sen will be screened at a retrospective of his actor-wife Gita Sen. The three-day-long cinematic tribute to Gita will begin at the Satyajit Ray Film & Television Institute on Friday evening with a screening of her 'Khandhar' starring  ,   and  .

 Losing one's better half is always painful. For the iconic director, the void became acute when Gita passed away in January this way. "Physically, he is doing as well as you can expect of a 94-year-old person, but mentally he looks very depressed. Understandably, he feels very lonely since my mother died," said son Kunal, who will be arriving in Kolkata from Chicago a day ahead of Sen's birthday.
 
 According to Debamitra Mitra, the director of SRFTI, it is privilege to be able to host this retrospective in association with National Film Archive of India. "We are paying our respect to her. It is also nice to be able to host it around the time when the world of cinema celebrates Mrinal Sen's birthday," Mitra said.
 
 NFAI director Prakash Magdum is also happy to be supporting this endeavour. On Saturday, SRFTI will be screening Ritwik Ghatak's 'Nagarik', Sen's 'Akaler Sandhaney' and Shyam Benegal's 'Aarohan'. On Sunday, three films of Sen - 'Calcutta 71', 'Ek Din Pratidin' and 'Chalchitra' - will be screened. On being asked if Sen is aware of this retrospective, Kunal said, "I have informed him but am not sure if he remembers it. He did ask which films are being shown and commented that her role in 'Nagarik' was rather insignificant. In any case, he cannot attend the programme."
 
 Gita was born in the suburb of Kolkata. She lost her father, an independence movement activist, when she was just 15. Reeling under extreme poverty, she had to accept the responsibility of her two younger siblings and her mother. Around the same time, she got involved in the activities of a splinter group of IPTA and started acting in political plays with some of the stalwarts of Indian theatre. 
 
 Gita started acting in films from the late 40s. Incidentally, Gita's first film role was in 'Dudhara'. The writer of the story was Mrinal Sen. She went on to marry him in 1953. During this period, she also acted in Ritwik Ghatak's 'Nagarik'. However, she dropped out of acting after Kunal was born in 1954. In 1966, Gita resumed theatre acting with Utpal Dutt and returned to film acting in 1971 with 'Calcutta 71'. Her last acting role was in 1991 for 'Mahaprithibi'.
 
 Researcher Praba Mahajan, who has conceptualised and curated this retrospective to acknowledge Gita's unique and memorable contribution as an actor, has received a message from Shah that will be read out before the screening of 'Khandhar'. In that message, Shah has said: "Gitadi's face mirrored the enormous amount of compassion she had for every human being. As an actor, her splendid craft was invisible while her eyes spoke volumes. I treasure the few moments of the only time I acted with her in 'Khandhar'." On hosting this retrospective, Shah has said: "Her modesty prevented her from celebrating herself. I think, she would have been embarrassed by the idea of a retrospective of her own work! Though this tribute is belated, no one deserved it more."
 
 Meanwhile, Mahajan has asked film scholar Moinak Biswas to introduce 'Nagarik' before the screening. "Her face reflected the hardship in the lower middle class existence. That melancholia is so evident in 'Nagarik' which she had done at a very young age," Biswas said.
 
 Organising a retrospective wasn't that easy simply because of the unavailability of the good quality prints. Said Mahajan, "The National Film Archives of India has been extremely helpful in providing us with blue ray versions of 'Calcutta 71', 'Ek Din Pratidin', 'Khandhar' and 'Akaler Sandhaney'. Through an online retailer, SRFTI has acquired digitised version of 'Aarohan', 'Chalchitra' and 'Nagarik'," Mahajan said.
 
 Though her acting assignments were limited in number, Kunal points out that she gained the respect of the audience and fellow actors through the "depth of her emotional performance". "Almost all of her roles were to portray lower middle class women, struggling to survive, and she portrayed them with unprecedented dignity and depth. During her life, she was often approached by many other eminent filmmakers to work in their films. But for some reason, she backed away from most of them. It remains a pity that we did not get a chance to see her in a wider body of work, but she left us with a small collection of haunting performances," Kunal said.
 
