BHUBANESWAR: It's hard to believe that there were no political discussions when two chief ministers of   and   parties met. 

 But   chief minister  , who met his Odisha counterpart at the latter's residence over a cup of tea during his visit to the state on Tuesday, said they did not discuss politics. 
 
 "We share a personal relationship and so talked about personal issues. I came here to attend the last rites of Rabi Ray. How can I return without meeting Naveen?" Nitish told reporters outside   Niwas.
 
 Earlier, replying to queries about the formation of an alternative alliance, Nitish said he had come to pay tribute, not to discuss politics. JU (U) leader  , who also met Naveen, barely 15 minutes after Nitish left, said they had discussed the current political scenario, including the crucial Uttar Pradesh election, among other things.
 
 To queries about the BJP's growth in the recently-concluded panchayat poll, Yadav said he had discussed it with the BJD president. "I had been informed that infighting within the BJD had led to such situations. But it would not have any impact in future," Yadav said.
 
 Regarding an alternative force at the Centre without the BJP and Congress, Yadav said he would comment on it at an appropriate time.
 
 Though the Odisha chief minister kept mum about his discussions with the Bihar chief minister and the senior JD (U) leader, sources said Yadav proposed to reunite the Janata pariwar at the national level to counter the BJP. 
 
 Delighted to meet Bihar CM @NitishKumar ji and senior leader Sharad Yadav ji. We reminisced association with Biju Babu and discussed many issues, Naveen tweeted. The bonhomie of Naveen with two senior JD (U) leaders raised many brows. Political observers feel that talks regarding the formation of an alternative front could be taken forward following the announcement of the results of the Uttar Pradesh polls.
 
 Most of the regional parties are keenly waiting for the results of the Uttar Pradesh election. If the Akhilesh Yadav-led alliance succeeds, there could be further discussions, said a BJD leader requesting anonymity.
 
 Though the BJD chief has never showed any interest in national politics, Naveen earlier on several occasions had stated that the formation of an alternative alliance would be a healthy option.
 
 
