NEW DELHI: With most general category seats filled up in most  , they have now shifted their focus on filling up reserved category seats. Principals said the cutoff now will drop substantially in the fifth list for reserved category, though there will be a marginal drop in general seats, if any.

 According to Rama, the principal of Hansraj College, most courses in the general category have closed down, and so there will be no change in the cutoff for the fifth list, in case any course does remain open. However, there will only be change in the reserved category, she said.
 
 In Indraprastha College for Women too, the cutoff for courses in general category is expected to come down only by 0.5% points to 1% points at the most. “But there will be a substantial drop for the reserved category,” said principal Babli Moitra Saraf.
 
 Colleges, however, are also planning to open a few courses in the fifth cutoff list.  , for example, is planning to open some of its courses because there are, albeit, marginal seats still left in general category. Acting principal Promila Kumar said general category will see only a dip of upto 0.5% points, if at all, but it is the ST and SC seats that need to be filled.
 
 In Aurobindo College, the authorities are mindful of last minute withdrawals from the BCom courses, with the results of BMS entrance tests expected soon. “Usually students shift from BCom courses after the BMS results come, and we need to mark our cutoffs keeping those withdrawals in mind. We want to limit the dip to 0.75% points in BCom,” said Vipin Aggarwal, the principal. “But we have to still fill a lot of seats in the OBC category here, because in BCom (Hons) we have around 20-22 seats of which only 5 have been filled. So we plan bring down the cutoff there by around 1.5% points,” he said.
 
 Aggarwal added that most ST students prefer going to arts courses like BA and honours subjects, because of which commerce and science seats remain empty. He said if the seats don’t fill up, there may be a chance of a sixth list too.
 
 
