DHARAMSHALA: A permanent campus of the   of   was earlier a bone of contention between BJP and Congress only, but now for the first time, a non- political outfit - Snagharsh Samiti for the Central University has been launched over issue. At present the temporary campus is in Shahpur area where people have formed this outfit to retain the university campus. BJP wanted the campus in Dehra and Congress was lobbying for Dharamshala.

 The outfit includes people running accommodation for students and eateries, milk suppliers, cleaners and shop keepers and all others who benefited by the presence of around 4,000 students in the campus. 
 
 Rahul Sondhi, one of the members told that he along with some of this friends are collecting a data about the number of people who got employment in this campus. “We are collecting the factual details. Every section of the society has benefited. should remain here only. This is also a part of the state,” he said.
 
 Shahpur, Sihun, Kyari, Manjhgran, Bhanala are some of the villages where people have erected buildings taking loans from banks to provide accommodations to students and teachers. The   has two wings- male and female.
 
 Ashish Patial, president of this Samiti told TOI that the place where the campus is located is a land donated by the people of the area. It is 86 kanals of land. “We have collected documents from our own sources which revealed that there are more lands available in the area,” he said adding that they will go to any extent to get their demand approved.
 
 The outfit was formed in March this year and is going to start its struggle very soon. “We will take out processions soon. The documents regarding availability of land has already been sent to state and central governments,” said Patial.
 
 The Central University has been waiting for its permanent campus since 2008. The Congress government had earmarked a land in Dharamshala at   but it is awaiting forest Another site in Dehra has been transferred in the name of varsity.LEAP
 
