Kolkata: Two films that released on Friday, and which attack two different political parties, have prompted members of Tollywood to wonder if the Central Board of Film Certification ( ) only exists to protect BJP’s interests. While Anik Datta’s ‘Meghnad Bodh Rahasya’ (MBR) has two direct attacks against the ruling Trinamool Congress, the content of Sankudeb Panda’s ‘Comrade’ — based on the land revolution of Nandigram-Singur — has a scathing attack on the erstwhile Left Front government. 

 However, CBFC member and BJP leader George Baker said, “BJP will never issue such directives to CBFC. Those making these allegations are trying to get cheap political advantage.”
 
 Director Utsav Mukherjee, who has co-written the screenplay and dialogue for ‘MBR’, said there was a pattern followed by CBFC. 
 
 “I don’t want any censorship and am glad that CBFC has retained Abir Chatterjee’s line insisting that though he is a celebrity, he will never be seen at any ‘sarkari mancha’ (government stage). But I was surprised when CBFC beeped ‘Ram’ and ‘ban’ from Abir’s ‘Ramrajya’ dialogue but went easy on Abir and Sabyasachi Chakraborty’s dialogues that attacked Trinamool. In the name of being fair, I noticed that CBFC is following a pattern to protect BJP’s interests,” Mukherjee said.
 
 Incidentally, a blink-and-miss character is shown saying the government he voted for has taken away all his money. “But this is said in passing and many might even miss it. By clearing this, CBFC has kept an alibi for claiming to be fair. But it’s another story when it came to protagonists’ dialogues, CBFC has followed a pattern,” Mukherjee said.
 
 Actor Anindya Pulak Banerjee, who has played a caretaker in ‘MBR’ and a goon in ‘Comrade’, said, “CBFC cleared the anti-Trinamool lines in ‘MBR’ because it didn’t hurt the sentiments of BJP. I presume that the lines my character has said in ‘Comrade’ was cleared only because it was an attack on the Left. I don’t think if my character was attacking the BJP, this film would have been cleared.”
 
 Director Saron Datta said, “ It (CBFC) will comb the Cinematograph Act to find guidelines that can help beep the word ‘Ram’. But they will not find anything that’s defamatory or violates their guidelines when it comes to ‘Comrade’, which shows a chief minister ordering goons to rape women in Nandigram-Singur. There is a method in CBFC’s madness. By maligning the Left, BJP is using the CBFC to strengthen its position in Bengal.”
 
 
