MUMBAI: Poor awareness about   among a few policemen allegedly turned into a harrowing ordeal for a   that had kept their grief aside to donate the organs of their patriarch. The family spent nearly five hours haggling with the   about the legality of the process and their noble intent.

 The organ donation that finally took place early on Wednesday saved four lives.
 
 The family of Dilip Parekh, 68, was always aware of organ donation but never imagined they would find themselves in the role of a giver. Two weeks ago, Parekh suffered head injuries after he collapsed at the CST outlet of a multinational fast food chain. He was rushed to the nearby St George Hospital and later shifted to  , where he was declared brain dead on Tuesday.
 
 His family was informed about the brain death at around 12.30pm on Tuesday. Within an hour, they had taken a decision to donate his organs and approached the hospital to initiate the process. As any incident of ‘fall’ comes under the ambit of medico-legal case, the family was asked to get a no-objection certificate from the Azad Maidan police station (the location of the fall incident) to go ahead with the donation. This is where their ordeal began. 
 
 Parekh’s brother Jayant went to the police station with a consent letter from Saifee and a detailed summary of the case around 4.30pm on Tuesday. “I thought it would hardly take 30 minutes as organ donations have become fairly common in the city,” he said. Instead he was met with a barrage of questions. “I was asked how his organs could be removed when he was still breathing and on ventilator. I was also asked to produce a death certificate,” said the brother.
 
 Dr Shabina, medical administrator at Saifee Hospital, said the NOC was handed over to the donor’s brother only around 10pm. That too after the police civil surgeon and several other seniors were asked to intervene. “It is unfortunate that a family that is trying to do a selfless deed is put through such an ordeal. It is of utmost urgency that stakeholders of organ donation come together to streamline procedures in medico-legal cases,” she said. After much persuasion, they managed to skip the autopsy.
 
 The family was finally handed over the body on Wednesday at around 8.30am, almost 19 hours after they had consented to donate his kidneys, liver and corneas. “There are certain steps that the lawmakers must ensure to make things less strenuous for the donor family. Primarily, the donor family should not be sent to the police station for the NOC. Either the hospital should do it or the police should facilitate it in the hospital itself,” said Jayant.
 
 Manoj Sharma, DCP, zone 1, however said there was no delay at their end as the procedures take 3-4 hours. “If there’s an accident case which we are aware of, NOCs are issued within 30 minutes. In such cases where no reports were filed previously, we have to do due diligence. The hospital initially refused to issue a death certificate that further delayed matters,” he said, adding that police are sensitive and aware of organ donation. 
 
