While   has worked with a wide variety of actors, Subhash Kapoor’s ' ' will see him with a host of co-stars, who are either the alumni of the   ( ) or the   ( ). 
Besides  , who plays the senior legal counsel against whom the protagonist fights his biggest case, the film also features Saurabh Shukla, Kumud Mishra, Inaamulhaq, Sunil Palwal, Sayani Gupta and Ram Gopal Bajaj, the ex-director of NSD. And much to Akki’s delight, all these senior actors have appreciated his performance. 
 Annu Kapoor, who has worked with Akshay previously too, says, “He is hard-working and committed. In fact, he is the only contemporary star I have worked with.” 
 Saurabh Shukla says, “Akshay is observant and he inspired us. I remember, after I delivered a particularly long dialogue, he hugged me saying, ‘How do you manage to remember such a long dialogue? I’m so jealous of you’. That was very touching.” Kumud Mishra, who has previously worked with the star in Airlift, says, “Akshay is a thinking actor. He is very intuitive and he helps his co-actors improvise. He also has a different approach to every subject; 'Jolly LLB 2' has him perfectly balance humour and intensity.” 
 
  
  
 Kumud adds, “He has done fantastic work in comedy, but that genre is taken lightly.” Inaamulhaq, who played the Iraqi general in Airlift, says that Akshay made him comfortable from day one. He says, “He doesn’t let a co-actor get influenced by his star aura. He speaks straight from his heart. His tapasya-like discipline is inspiring.” Sunil Palwal loves the action star’s warmth. “There’s never a dull moment with him around. When he’s not regaling you with anecdotes, he’s pulling a trick with cards, pens, and you name it.” Ram Gopal Bajaj had the toughest scene with Akshay — he was required to slap the hero. “I was so nervous, I told him it’s impossible for me to slap him. He comforted me saying that he’ll avoid it at the last moment. ‘Nahin toh lag jaane do’, he told me,” recalls the veteran. 
 Director   tells us, “More than me, it was Akshay who made the film happen with ease. When we started shooting, he’d joke about what he’s doing amid a bunch of trained actors from theatre background. By the end of it, however, he had made friends with most of them. His strength lies in the way he puts others at ease.” 
 
  
  
 
 
