NEW DELHI:   has received support from various quarters on social media.  's  ,   and CPI(ML)'s Kavita Krishnan were among those who tweeted in favour of the former reality TV show contestant. 

 Other tweeple took the opportunity to slam the religious groups and also to question the silence of what they called the "azaadi gang". This was a reference to political groups who spoke in favour of free expression during the JNU controversy of February 2016.
 
 Afrin, 16, trended on Twitter on Wednesday and Thursday.
 
 "I was and will be with A R Rahman, Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan, Mohammed Rafi, Javed Ali. I am with Nahid Afrin and Zaira Wasim," tweeted @sdeepakdas.
 
 Deora referenced a song by another young singer from the UK, Birdy, and wrote on Twitter, "You think that you're deep under my skin You're trying to keep me suffering You use your words as a weapon ~ @birdy #NahidAfrin #NahidAfreen". "Support Nahid Afrin in her fight against bigots. No to cultural cops of any colour," wrote Krishnan, while Prasad said he "fully stands" with Afrin.
 
 A pamphlet was issued by over 40 Assamese clerics, opposing Afrin's singing. Circulated in Udali, central Assam, it came close on the heels of the release of her music video against terrorism with footage of the so-called Islamic State.
 
 Environmental activist Nityanand Jayaraman questioned the moral policing of women and minorities by regressive, culturally conservative groups in a public Facebook post. "Is it that the music is un-Islamic, or that these men that issued the call are bigoted, misled, boring and dangerous? Hindu, Muslim or Christian, why does the loony fringe derive its power only through moral policing?" reads a part of the post.
 
 A few tweets compared her with Zaira Wasim, the teenaged Kashmiri actor who played the role of wrestler Gita Phogat in the recent Aamir Khan film Dangal. 
 
 In January, Wasim found herself in the middle of a controversy after pictures of her meeting Jammu and Kashmir CM Mehbooba Mufti were posted online. Here, she had been projected as a "role model" for Kashmiri youth. Those sympathetic to the separatist cause in the state took exception to the meeting and flooded her with rude comments.
 
 
