PANAJI: Six heavyweights, including chief minister   and five other ministers, were routed and the party strength shrank from 21 to 13 in the 40-member House, but all seven   won as the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party survived the anti-incumbency to initiate government-formation moves. 

 Cadre-based BJP has not been known to give tickets liberally to minority candidates in other states, but in Goa the party’s strategic social engineering in 2012 to woo Catholic voters appears to have worked in their favour.
 
 The six Catholic MLAs, deputy chief minister Francisco D’Souza, former science and technology minister Alina Saldanha, Calangute MLA Michael Lobo, Curchorem MLA Nilesh Cabral, Aldona MLA Glenn Ticlo and Vasco MLA Carlos Almeida were all re-elected in the February 4 polls, some of them by huge margins. 
 
 After the results were declared on March 11, even former Congress MLA Mauvin Godinho, who had been inducted additionally during the run-up to the elections, came in handy to increase the overall tally. Godinho’s entry had even kicked off criticism as defence minister had filed a case against him in an alleged power subsidy scam.
 
 The party, dominated by Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) members, generally issues tickets largely to is members but did not meet with much success. The deputy chief minister was among very few Catholics issued tickets in the past, and continued to be the lone Catholic MLA for more than a decade till 2012.
 
 While RSS rebels headed by Subhash Velingkar were one of the factors for the heavy loss suffered by the party, its heavyweightswater resources minister Dayanand Mandrekar, tourism minister Dilip Parulekar, forest minister Rajendra Arlekar, industries minister Mahadev Naik were among those toppled in the recently-concluded election.
 
 The minority community had been wary of the BJP ever since it gained a toehold in the Goa assembly, winning four seats in 1994. This was largely in the minority-dominated Salcete taluka where it has still been unable to make much headway with eight constituencies, barring a lone victory either in Margao, Fatorda or Cuncolim in the past. 
 
 Salcete, a Congress bastion, hold political significance as the taluka holds a booty of eight seats. 
 
 While its lone BJP MLA Rajan Naik in Salcete also lost in Cuncolim and the party drew a blank in five talukas, the Catholic MLAs winning outside this coastal taluka have propped up the party’s fortunes. 
 
 While the deputy chief minister romped home with a huge margin in 2012, he carved a comfortable win with a 6,808-vote margin. Nilesh Cabral achieved the highest margin of 9,088, Lobo 3,745 and others on a lesser scale.
 
 D’Souza was the lone senior member and his chances of heading the BJP government as chief minister appeared bright. But he may have to wait his turn for a second time as defence minister Manohar Parrikar has claimed the post with Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) agreeing to cobble an alliance. 
 
 Previously with Parrikar being summoned to the Centre, even a few non-Catholic party MLAs had supported their minority colleagues in D’Souza’s claim to the CM’s post but Laxmikant Parsekar turned victor. 
 
 (With inputs from Nisser Dias)
 
 
