CHENNAI: Even five days after the   ordered his arrest, Justice C S Karnan of the Calcutta high court remained incommunicado, with legal circles agog with reports that the embattled judge might surrender before the  . He might add a bit of drama to the surrender event by giving himself up before a   statue on the campus, they said.

 While it did not materialise till evening on Saturday, a senior advocate insisted that he was still at a farm near Kalahasti in Andhra Pradesh. A former staffer of Karnan was said to be in touch with him through WhatsApp. The personal security/protocol official attached with the judge during his Chennai hours visit was stationed in front of the state guest house where   was last seen.
 
 The talk of Justice Karnan turning himself in gathered momentum after the seven-judge bench of the Supreme Court headed by Chief Justice of India Justice J S Khehar made it clear on Friday that his plea for recall of their order imposing six-month imprisonment on Justice Karnan had to be posted before the same bench. “It virtually ruled out any immediate relief for Justice Karnan, as the apex court has entered its six week-long summer vacation,” the senior advocate said.
 
 Born on June 12, 1955, Justice Karnan has exactly a month to retire from the constitutional position.
 
 “With his judicial and administrative powers having been already withdrawn, and an arrest order issued by the highest court of the country pending against him, he would not have much options left with him now,” a senior jurist said, adding that since the media too had been restrained from publishing or airing his statements and ‘house court orders’, he would not have any means to hit out at top judicial institutions as is his wont.
 
 Chennai police sources said the DGP-led police team from   had been closely working with Tamil Nadu intelligence agencies to pick digital leads to trace Justice Karnan. In the initial couple of days, they were able to locate signals from the picnic location of Tada on Andhra Pradesh-Tamil Nadu border, but signals fell silent soon after.
 
 
