BATHINDA: Power consumers in Punjab will soon receive their bills on e-mail and phone. Punjab State Power Corporation Limited ( ) has instructed its   to collect e-mail ids and phone numbers of consumers to create a data bank to further digitalize the functioning of the power corporation vis-a-vis its 85 lakh consumers in the state. 

 As part of its digitalization programme, the PSPCL has worked out a road map to directly connect with consumers to send details about electricity bill, outstanding amount, bill payment date and receipt of payment through mobile and email. The corporation, in the next one year, wants to use technological advantage to track the collection of at least Rs 15,000 crore in power bills. The corporation collects bills worth nearly Rs 30,000 crore in a year. 
 
 The mobile numbers will also be used for apprising consumers of any emergency repairs or maintenance in any particular electricity feeder. Corporation’s chief engineer (commercial) on Wednesday sent a communication to all chief engineers and executive engineers of the corporation to direct meter readers and cashiers to start collecting the mobile numbers and email addresses of consumers.
 
 Apart from meter readers, the cashiers at PSPCL offices too have been instructed to collect mobile numbers and email identities of all those who pay bills in person. Putting up their mobile number for applying new connection has been made mandatory whereas putting up email address is optional.
 
 PSPCL chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) A Venu Prasad told TOI, “The corporation aims to ensure better consumer centric services and hence we have made plans to digitalize the system from arranging bills to its payment mobile.”
 
 
 
 The database will also be used to alert consumers in case of a breakdown. A Venu Prasad said apart from sending out information about bills, the corporation will link mobile numbers to electricity feeders. This will help consumers directly contact the feeder instead of whenever a problem occurs in any feeder or any urgent repairs have to be made. 
 
 
