Panaji: After reviewing the CCP’s proposed design for the new municipal building, CM Manohar   proposed that the Massano de Amorim heritage structure could also be included in the development proposal to form a massive precinct in the city’s core business area.

 According to Parrikar’s proposal, the 18th June Road could terminate at the Dr Pandurang Pissulekar Road and 18th June Road intersection. The Praca de Igreja avenue would then be pedestrianized.
 
 On Monday, Parrikar chaired a review meeting of CCP’s proposal to build a new municipal building estimated to cost Rs 68 crore. 
 
 Offering his suggestions after going through the comprehensive architectural urban design for the   Church Square and CCP precinct, Parrikar asked the Indian Institute of Architects-Goa (IIA-Goa) to consider the Massano de Amorim for redevelopment too.
 
 The Massano de Amorim houses the department of social welfare and an urban health centre. 
 
 “Why not have pedestrianization of the entire square. Take into consideration Massano de Amorim building as part of the project. Then the middle road disappears and from National Theatre to municipality, two squares can be merged,” Parrikar said.
 
 Parrikar asked IIA-Goa, which has designed the new building for CCP, to submit updated sketches based on his suggestions within 15-20 days. Parrikar has also asked CCP and the IIA-Goa to meet with LKS India and officials of the Smart City Mission to incorporate common aspects.
 
 If the suggestions made by the chief minister are incorporated, the project’s cost could go up exponentially but Parrikar has promised to “provide the finance for the project”.
 
 He did ask the planners to consider conservation FAR rules and maintenance costs. Parrikar urged IIA-Goa to factor maintenance costs for 10 years into the project estimate. He also suggested that a sinking fund for maintenance could be created out of the revenues earned from the rent.
 
 “I have told them to expand the concept for a walk zone while keeping the heritage aspect intact and they can consider taking the Massono De Amori area as part of the full development so that the in between road can be taken in and the outer road could be expanded. Plus the church square zone can be making a pedestrian zone,” Parrikar said.
 
 The entire block adjacent to CCP which houses the department of social welfare, urban health centre, BSNL’s commercial office and a government school. Parrikar has offered to shift all the government buildings out of that location. “National theatre belongs to corporation and they can work out a solution without dispute and give them some place. So right from that point to this block, you get two blocks that can be merged so that more spacious movement could be considered. And then convert the whole thing into a walkway,” Parrikar said.
 
 
