INDORE: Expressing your love for your mother with chocolates, cakes or greeting cards is passé. This Mother’s Day, children have found new ways to say ‘I love you mom’ with   like tour packages, gadgets,   cards and investments for a   and online portals are coming to their aid.

 “The online world makes it easier to add more sentiment to special days like Mother’s Day and it helps us gift something more than flowers and chocolates,” said Shraddha Raikwar, a software engineer.
 
 Shailja Pillai was left speechless when her 25-year-old son gifted her package tour to Kerala. “My son has just started earning and I have never received such a gift from him before. Though I never expected anything, it is definitely a feeling words can’t describe. I feel special,” said Pillai.
 
 Shivani Garg, a mother from the city, is all set for her trip to Bali which she got as Mother’s Day gift from her son.
 
 “We have never celebrated Mother’s Day but I don’t mind being made to feel special once in a while. My son is 25 years old and he has grown up to be so thoughtful.” said a happy Shivani.
 
 Innovative online portals have easy options for gifts and also provide the younger generation with ideas, she added.
 
 Sandeep Goyal, an employee at an online platform which allows people to customise travel packages and gift them to near and dear ones, said there was a spate of bookings in the week that led up to Mother’s day.
 
 “We realised a lot of people wish to gift tour packages to loved ones. Kerala is a popular destination for domestic travel because of the weather. People also book Bali and Shimla packages for their parents,” he said.
 
 While working professionals have left no stones unturned to please their mothers, students — who have limited sources — dug deep into their pockets to make their mother’s happy. Some of the ideas include professional photo shoots with their moms.
 
 “My brother is an aspiring photographer and he will take pictures of me and my mom. We are going to Maheshwar for it,” said Aarushi Wadhera, a homemaker.
 
 Flowers are also in demand for Mother’s Day. “I have 50 advance home delivery bookings. We received special demands for flowers like carnations, lilies and gladiolus,” said Ramesh, a florist from the city.
 
 Poems go hand in hand with flowers and gifts and they add that special touch that money can’t buy. “I have written some poems for my mother to make her realise that she is indeed very special. I have also ordered a bunch of flowers. When the flowers arrive in the morning, I am sure she’ll be surprised. I’ll take her for a movie too in the evening,” said  , a college student.
 
 Some working professionals have said they will gift investment plans to their mothers.
 
