It was a regular Tuesday afternoon for Sector 14 resident Arun Kumar as he sat inside the KFC outlet in Sector 14's main market waiting for his meal, when at 2.30pm, 20 men entered the restaurant, shouting orders to the staff to pull down the shutters. "Initially, I thought they were from the health department, but later I realised it was some sort of protest from a political group. It was quite sudden and scary. They shut off the power, forced customers to vacate and then closed the restaurant," Arun tells us. The men were members of the local unit of the  , who were demanding that fast food joints and restaurants serving non-veg food, as well as  , remain closed throughout the Navaratra and even every subsequent Tuesday.

  
  (L)The letter sent by the Shiv Sena's Gurgaon members to meat shops and restaurants selling non-veg ; (R) Several meat shops and restaurants selling non-veg have shut down after the Shiv Sena 'raid' (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
  The 'raid' at KFC wasn't an isolated incident. On Tuesday afternoon, around 200 Shiv Sainiks went to markets of  , as well as places like Sector 14 and Sushant Lok, forcing around 500 meat shops and family restaurants selling non-veg to pull down their shutters. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  Ironically, calling the forced shutting down of joints a "good gesture" from restaurants, Ritu Raj, who claims to be Shiv Sena's Gurgaon spokesperson, says, "Our drive was directed at meat shops initially, but later, we extended it to restaurants and fast food chains. Since most Hindus observe fast during these nine days and do not eat meat, we feel it would be a good gesture on part of these joints to stop their operations or at least pull non-veg off their menus."
 
  An employee from the KFC in Sector 14 says, "Our management decided to close down at that time but we re-opened at about 5pm later that day. We didn't want any confrontation so did not protest. Hopefully, the administration will sort the matter out. We can't close the outlet for all nine days without orders from high up." The managements of fast food joints in the city are also not pleased with the uncalled for 'raid', and say that shutting shop for nine days is impossible. A staff-member at another KFC in Gurgaon says, "Our sale already dips during the Navratras. Incidents like these will drive more customers away. If we close down for nine days straight, that will mean massive losses for us."
 
  
  
 
 
  While the KFC outlet in Sector 14 re-opened that same evening, many shops in the area remained closed for 24 hours after the Shiv Sena's intimidation drive around town. Shopkeepers say that they were afraid and decided to play safe. Some shops opened the following day, but after pulling non-veg off their menus. The owner of a kebab and rolls shop in the market says, "I can't close the shop for nine days, so I have made it a veg-only menu. I do not want to stand up to these guys and get my business attacked." Representatives of fast-food chains have said that although no police complaint was filed initially, senior executives did ask cops to intervene. The manager of a McDonald's outlet in Gurgaon, who requested anonymity, says, "After the KFC incident, and since we had also received the notice from these guys, we reported the matter to our seniors, who took it up with the authorities. We have been told that the matter will be sorted and we will not face any problems now."
 
  Initially,   stated that they couldn't act on the situation as they hadn’t received any formal complaint. However, top Gurgaon cops held a meeting with Shiv Sena leaders on Wednesday afternoon, instructing them not to use force or take the law into their own hands. 
 
  
  
 
  However, despite reports that they used force to shut venues down, Ritu Raj insists that it was through "mutual agreement." "We talked to the owners or management. They agreed with our demands and co-operated with us. We did not have to use force anywhere. It was done through consensus and we appreciate the spirit of our brother shopkeepers in support of our campaign," he claims. The management of the restaurants, though, say that they had no option but to extend support as they felt intimidated. An owner of a restaurant in Old Gurgaon that is now closed for the Navaratra, says, "There is not much protest you can do when 20 men enter your shop and intimidate you to close it. If we don’t give in to their demands, they might damage our restaurant."
 
  Adding that they plan to extend their 'campaign' to places like DLF, Udyog Vihar, and even Cyber Hub in the coming days, Ritu Raj says, "We want these restaurants and shops to be closed on every Tuesday as a mark of respect and social harmony. We will see to it that this is carried out across Gurgaon."
 
  On the other hand, reports say that the Shiv Sena has distanced itself from these 'raids'. "There's no spokesperson by this name (Ritu Raj) in Shiv Sena. We didn't carry out any such drive in Gurugram," Harshal Pradhan, media advisor to Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray, was quoted as saying.
 
  Interestingly, after the recent incident went viral, Twitter users were quick to point out that in 2015, Shiv Sena members sold meat on streets to protest the ban on sale of meat by the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM) during the Jain fasting period of Paryushan.
 
  --With inputs from Divya.Kaushik@timesgroup.com and Niharika.Lal@timesgroup.com 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
