Several   shed licensees in   are set to lose part of their residential premises after they were unable to prove that they owned a minimum of 20 cattle in the City Civil Court.

 These licensees had moved the City Civil Court after the state government's Competent Authority had served them eviction orders for the rooms allotted to them by the state. According to a 1953 policy, one room could be allotted on a temporary license to a person holding 20 or more cattle.
 
 Among the 70 residential quarters kept aside for cattle shed licensees inside Aarey, numerous residents have been served orders to vacate the allotted premises.
 
 Abbas Vazir, 76, had moved the local court after he was handed over an order of eviction for a bungalow that he currently resides in with his brother, on 28th August 2015. The order stated that they did not have enough cattle to occupy the bungalow.This bungalow had been allotted to Vazir's father by the state government. Vazir and his brother also have four more rooms under the 1953 policy.
 
 The lawyer appearing on behalf of the Compentent Authority and  , contended that Vazir and others were allotted the premises since they were supplying milk to the Aarey Milk Dairy. However, as of today the milk is being sold in the open market. While speaking to Mirror, Vazir's lawyer Sunil Shukla said, “Aarey themselves stopped taking milk from my clients. We are ready to provide the milk even today.“
 
 However, principal judge of the  , SB Aggarwal said, “Father of appellant had 100 buffaloes and was allotted four rooms and the bungalow. Thereafter, father distributed his 100 buffaloes between the appellant and his brother equally and as such the appellant was having 50 buffaloes and as such he was entitled to only two rooms. Thus, the bungalow is clearly in excess as per the policy.“
 
 The judge further observed that, “It is abundantly clear that the premises was allotted on a temporary license that has now been revoked...not just the allotment was contrary to the said policy, it was merely on a temporary license and upon revocation of the said license, appellant cannot claim any vested right in the premises.“
 
 Recently, two other licensees of Aarey lost a similar case in High Court and were asked to vacate the premises. Sources at Aarey said that these vacant plots are likely to be used for development.
 
 
 
 
