Rajnish Wattas

 Le Corbusier, the iconic architect-planner of Chandigarh, described architecture as ‘frozen music’. Many years later eminent Indian architect Charles Correa after visiting Capitol Complex wrote, “His buildings were great gestures… extraordinary decibel level. Compared to the sotto voce tone of most 1950s architecture, this had the brutal, primordial (yet urbane) thunder of Stravinsky in the concert hall”.
 
 But there was a sotto voce that complimented Le Corbusier’s symphony at Chandigarh. And that was the soft, low key work of   (his cousin and associate) who shouldered the burden of designing most of the housing and civic buildings of the Phase I of the city. In addition, he established the on-site chief architects’ office leading the team comprising: Maxwell fry, Jane Drew and the young Indian architects. The first office a temporary building (now preserved as Le Corbusier Centre) was set up by him in the heat, dust and grit of the project site. Le Corbusier did most of his designing at Paris and visited Chandigarh to oversee them regularly.
 
 In fact, the real image of the city that as perceived by citizens in the early days of Chandigarh was the low, horizontal skyline and architecture created by Jeanneret’s team. Most government housing ranging from the lowliest to the highest category was done under his guidance. And so were the schools, health centres and other civic facilities.
 
 The challenge of designing buildings in Chandigarh, especially housing, was the major constraint of tight budgets and dealing with extreme climatic conditions. But Jeanneret turned these limitations into assets by creating poetic cadences with the humble, warm, earthy local building materials like brick, stone and cement plastered surfaces. Brick jallies ( trellis work) inspired by local traditions allowed winds to pass through without rain to come in. Small fenestrations with sun-breakers created dapples of light and shadow both inside as well as on the textured brick facades outside. This was minimalist art maximising available resources and local technology. It gave dignity and beauty to the dwellings of even the loweliest.
 
 However, the piece de resistance of the architectural oeuvre of this quiet, soft spoken, self-effacing architect was the epic red sandstone Panjab University campus designed by him, crowned by the sculptural Gandhi Bhavan placed amidst a large water body. 
 
 Jeanneret was a simple man seeking no grandeur or spotlight in history. He spent most of his spare time in collecting sculptural drift wood, pebbles from the seasonal streams flowing by the city or designing low-cost furniture, durries-- and even the first paddle boats for Sukhna Lake.
 
 Perhaps his one indulgence was sipping a well-earned glass of wine at the end of a hard day. He even experimented with making some from the local Indian grapes— which one hopes Monsieur Le Corbusier’s immaculate French nose too toasted!
 
 Jeanneret’s great commitment to the Chandigarh is eternally, if poignantly, embedded in this city. Upon his demise on December 4, 1967, in Switzerland in accordance with his wishes his ashes were especially brought here and immersed in the deep, silent waters of the Sukhna Lake to rest forever.
 
 As the city cherishes his great contribution by inaugurating a museum dedicated to his work on his 121st birth anniversary, it salutes its other, lesser sung Swiss born French architect. 
 
 Rajnish Wattas, former principal Chandigarh College of Architecture is a heritage expert and architectural critic.
 
 
