NEW DELHI: Promptly addressing complaints against hospitals that were allegedly overcharging for stents, the   (NPPA) has issued show-cause notices to Max Hospital, Saket (New Delhi), and Nidaan Hospital, Sonipat (Haryana).

 While the regulator said that the action is based on the findings of its preliminary investigation, both the hospitals denied the charge and maintained that they have “not overcharged a single patient” for stents.
 
 On Thursday, the regulator had initiated a probe against some reputed hospitals, including PGIMER, Chandigarh, Lilavati Hospital in Mumbai; Max Hospital, Metro Hospital in Faridabad (Haryana) and Shri Ram Murti Smarak Institute of Medical Sciences in Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh).
 
 The regulator said it is still examining the rest of the complaints and will move further only if the preliminary investigation indicates violation.
 
 Meanwhile, two more hospitals — the Bharat Heart Institute, Dehradun (Uttarakhand) and Oxygen Hospital, Rohtak (Haryana) — have come under probe following complaints received through NPPA’s helpline, the regulator said in fresh tweets on Friday.
 
 “After receiving complaints, we are seeking bills and other documents to examine the complaints and see if prices charged from patients are more than what has been fixed. Only if preliminary investigations indicate violation, show-cause notices will be issued,” NPPA chairman BhupendraSingh told TOI.
 
 Max Hospital said, “We have not overcharged even a single patient for stent. We have complied fully and immediately with the NPPA order on the stent pricing. We are positive that we will be able to demonstrate our compliance to the NPPA order on the ceiling price of coronary stent (sic)."
 
 Authorities at Nidaan Hospital said the complaint was made by a patient based on a provisional bill containing old prices issued by the hospital on February 14, a day after the NPPA fixed prices. “We issued a fresh bill based on new prices to the patient on the day of discharge, i.e. February 16, and also refunded the extra money on the same day,” said B B Rawal, administrative officer, Nidaan Hospital. He said the alleged discrepancy was because of procedural delay as stent-makers took some time to send the fresh price list.
 
 Official sources said NPPA will allow seven days to companies or hospitals to respond to its show-cause notice, following which it will examine the case in detail and if it is not convinced about compliance, a “demand notice” will be issued.
 
 The regulator said that if a hospital under probe refunds the overcharged amount before NPPA generates a “demand notice”, the matter will rest unless there are new complaints.
 
 If a hospital is found guilty of overcharging, the NPPA has the power to recover the overcharged money along with 15% interest under the provisions of the Drugs Price Control Order.
 
 In case of repeated violations, the regulator or government may also revoke licences under the Essential Commodities Act.
 
 Earlier this month, the regulator capped the price of bare metal stents at Rs 7,260, while both drug-eluting stents and biodegradable stents will now cost Rs 29,600.
 
