MUMBAI: Over 100   from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)-run peripheral hospitals have held on to their postings for years and decades altogether in blatant violation of rules, an   has revealed. This is despite the transfer policy of the municipal corporation clearly stipulating a tenure of not more than three continuous years in a workplace.

 As of today, the transfers of 114 medical officers from 16 peripheral hospitals have been overdue. It has emerged that medical officers work for an average of 6-7 years in one centre. In extreme cases, the tenure can be much longer. One of the extreme cases is that of medical officer Dr Payanwar Sacchidanandan’s who has been working at the Rajawadi Hospital in Ghatkopar for more than 22 years. The same hospital has more than 16 officers who are eligible for transfers. 
 
 Among the other peripheral centres, the Bhabha Hospital in Bandra has 12 medical officers who have been working for more than three years. Senior medical officer Dr Sanjay Patil, for instance, has been working in the hospital for ten years now. At least six other doctors have been working for more than seven years. Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Municipal General Hospital, Kandivli (west) has four medical officers, while Bhagwati Hospital in Borivali has five medical officer and one assistant medical officer working beyond three years. 
 
 Activist Chetan Kothari who filed the RTI said that such practices often breed corruption in the system. “It is common knowledge that doctors often divert patients from the corporation hospital to the nearby clinics or nursing homes,” he said. A BMC insider further added that postings often depend on favoritism and proximity to political leaders. “There is an absolute lack of transparency in postings and therefore scope of corruption,” the source said. 
 
 The violation of MCGM’s transfer policy does not end here. Most hospitals admitted in the RTI that they do not even prepare the mandatory annual list of candidates who have completed their tenure. Authorities at the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Municipal Hospital, Vikhroli (east) said that the list is prepared only when the higher-ups ask for one. 
 
 Chief medical superintendent of peripheral hospitals Dr P Jadhav, however, said that only a handful doctors would probably be working beyond their stipulated tenure. “Many people retired and the rest are promoted. There are very few doctors who work in one hospital for more than three years. Also these are mostly non-clinical posts so there is no question of holding them back for their medical acumen,” he said. Executive health officer Dr Padmaja Keskar could not be reached for comments. 
 
