HYDERABAD: Residents thronging ATMs in the city on Monday in the hope of finding cash were left disappointed with most of them being forced to return empty-handed. 

 When TOI went on a recce around Hyderabad's central business district, spanning Banjara Hills-Panjagutta-Somajiguda-Ameerpet, it found that the nearly two dozens ATMs in the area were either shut or had no cash to dispense. 
 
 There was frustration written large across the faces of customers hopelessly waiting outside these centres. "I visited more than five ATMs so far, but have still not managed to withdraw a single paisa of my salary," said Yadigiri N, spotted waiting outside the SBI ATM in Banjara Hills. He said, "I expected the woes of demonetisation to be short-lived, but that has not been the case. It now appears to be otherwise."
 
 Such tales of despair were in abundance on Monday. Outside the Andhra bank ATM within the Nizam's Institute of Medical Sciences' premises (NIMS), the situation was much as same. "Medical stores are accepting cards but we need cash for food and transport. I have visited almost all the ATMs in Panjagutta, Sri Nagar Colony and Ameerpet, but have failed to withdraw any money," said Md Zakair, who has a relative admitted at  . "I have now sent my brother to Himayathnagar to try and see if he can get cash there," he said. 
 
 Like Zakair, there were others too who had been running from one ATM to the other, in desperation to withdraw money. The out-of-cash ATMs either forced many to queue up outside bank branches (to withdraw by cheque) or scared those who had turned up to deposit their earnings. 
 
 Another problem that left many complaining at the SBI branch in Banjara Hills was the dysfunctional cash deposit machine. People visiting the branch to deposit money were faced with a 'technical glitch', which, in turn, didn't allow them to withdrawing money. "I was waiting for the person in front of me to deposit money, so that I could withdraw 5,000 from the same machine thereafter," said a customer. 
 
 Bank staffers said the reason was rooted in poor inflow from the RBI. "Our first priority is to provide cash to customers visiting branches. Loading cash in the ATM machines is our second priority," said Chandra Mohan, manager at SBI's Banjara Hills branch. 
 
