The   is as much about votes as it is about the   symbol. The two-leaves icon is like a royal seal – whoever has it becomes the ruler. Village folks stamping the two-leaves symbol with little hesitation is part of TN   folklore. And the two factions fought a bitter battle to own it.

 Symbols were introduced as many of the voters couldn’t read or write, says noted writer Su Venkatesan. “In a country like India, where illiteracy is still widespread, election symbols will continue to command importance for ages to come,’’ says the Sakitya Akademi award winning writer.
 
 From being tools of identification, symbols have since outgrown their purpose and have emerged as powerful political tools. Not long ago, the second edition of   launched by G K Vasan fought a failed battle to get back the cycle symbol made famous by his father G K Moopanar in 1996. TMC cadres then rode bicycles to every nook and cranny of the state, accompanied by superstar Rajinikanth’s song `Vanthenda Paalkaran,’ from the blockbuster movie `Annamalai’ to seek votes. Not just the Rajini factor, but cycle, as the vehicle of the poor, also struck a chord with voters. Vasan was instead allotted the coconut farm symbol in 2016 elections.
 
 The DMK’s rising sun has worked well for it. Forever pitching itself as an alternative, then to the Congress and now to the AIADMK, the rising sun seems to symbolize a party that would remove the `darkness’ cast by existing rulers. DMDK’s Vijayakanth steadfastly wanted the drum symbol, which, to him, symbolizes a war cry that loudly exposes the wrongdoings of others. Not many know that All India Forward Bloc’s Lion symbol commands respect equal to that of the rising sun or two leaves in   constituency where the party has won eight times since 1962.
 
 Barely days after his faction was given the symbol of an electric pole with two lamps, O Panneerselvam sought to make the symbol more than what it is. “One lamp is MGR and the other is Jayalalithaa,’’ he said on Sunday.
 
 “Initially, symbols don’t make any difference, like in the present case of R K Nagar. Only after successive victories over a period of time, a symbol gains more prominence than personalities or parties,’’ says branding professional Krishna Iyer.
 
 
