CHANIDGARH: You don't expect high courts to decide disputes over roommates on the campus on an educational institution. But the case of   at Mahendergarh is different. One of its teachers ­   ­ has approached the   after he was made to share accommodation with another teacher.   stayed the university's orders and issued notice seeking a reply from the administration by April 17.

 At the heart of the issue is the controversy over the department of English and foreign languages staging well-known playwright  's play `Draupadi' in September last year. Kumar was one of the coordinators of the play which was critical of the Indian army and had led to protests by locals.
 
 Kumar, an assistant professor, has accused the authorities of targeting him for staging the play . He has alleged that he has been forced to share one-room accommodation with another faculty member.
 
 Kumar and another teacher, Snehsata, had objected at the university imposing “unethical censorship“ after it sought an explanation from them over the play being staged. Kumar submitted that the university was shifted to the present campus in 2013 and due to limited accommodation, it was decided to allot some portion of students' hostel to teachers temporarily . In his petition, Kumar has claimed that he was married and was living in the room with his family , including his parents. On December 21, 2016, he was asked to share accommodation with another teacher. Kumar has informed the court that several teachers junior to him are living alone in similar accommodation but they haven't been disturbed. He has even provided details of rooms lying vacant. Alleging that the administration had mala fide intentions, Kumar has submitted that he has been deliberately targeted because it was criticized by various organizations and scholars of foreign universities for its action against him and Snehsata.The university's action was termed as an attack on the freedom of academic expression of the staff and students.
 
 Kumar also claimed the administration is tracking his personal life, which is a violation of his fundamental right to dignity as a human being and encroachment into personal life.
 
 The play , staged on September 21, had a scene portraying Army men committing rape. This had led to widespread protests by ex-servicemen and ABVP members. Administration had issued warning to Kumar and Snehsata. Snehsata had raised the issue of patriarchal attitude of state through epilogue of the play giving data about atrocities on tribals, especially alleged sexual crimes against women by the Army .
 
