JAIPUR: The women’s wing of the   ( ) received mixed response from   on their stand on  .

 The first-of-its-kind meeting with prominent non-Muslim women was held in the backdrop of the two-day workshop of AIMPLB that concluded in the city on Sunday.
 
 The interaction was organized to educate women from other communities about triple talaq and to also seek their support in fighting social problems faced by women.
 
 At the session on talaq, Yasmin Farooqui, a member of AIMPLB, opined that triple talaq helped to reduce lengthy legal procedures for couples. But half of those who participated in the session disapproved of her arguments and termed the practice uncivilized.
 
 Prof Amla Batra, former principal of Maharani’s College, accused the board of creating a barrier in the development of Muslim women. “Legal recourse should be made the only criteria for divorce. My close friend had suffered due to this practice when her husband married other women by claimed it as a right of being a Muslim,” said Batra.
 
 But her observation that Muslim women were forced to wear burqa was countered by social activist Deepa Mathur who claimed that there was no hindrance for Muslim women from wearing clothes of their choice.
 
 “I closely work with a Muslim girls’ school in Ramganj. Most of them wear clothes of their choice and it is part of their culture,” said Mathur, who won the President’s Nari Shakti award last month for her contribution towards women’s empowerment.
 
 After hearing arguments and case studies presented by participants, she said that the practice of triple talaq may be required in cases of immediate dissolution of marriage to make women more secure. “The questions is not whether triple talaq should be made valid or not. Focus should be on creating awareness about married life. Counselling should be made a must before marriage to minimize the menace of divorce affecting all communities,” said Mathur.
 
 A graduate from Delhi University, Meha Bangia took part in the meeting to better understand triple  . “It appears that most of the Muslim women are happy being oppressed. Talaq via WhatsApp, email, text message and email can’t be justified. The board has listened to various views on this practice and I am sure they will take initiatives to make women more confident,” said Bangia.
 
