MUMBAI: Governor   is likely to swear in AIADMK legislature party leader   as Tamil Nadu CM on Thursday. He may be asked to prove majority on the floor of the house in a week, thereby ruling out the possibility of a composite floor test, a Raj Bhavan insider told TOI.

 The source said after meeting Palaniswami and caretaker CM O Paneerselvam on Wednesday, the governor accepted Palaniswami’s claim on the basis of numbers the two leaders presented. “Palaniswami submitted a list of 124 MLAs, while Paneerselvam claimed support of eight. The governor has no option but to invite Palaniswami to form the government,” the source said.
 
 He said the governor examined all aspects, including reports that a section of legislators have held captive in a resort, before concluding that Palaniswami has the support of the requisite number of legislators. “The allegation of MLAs being kept in a resort against their will did not sound very convincing,” he said.
 
 Palaniswami, who joined the AIADMK in 1983, had remained with   when the party split in 1988. Gaining access to   through her relative R P Ravanan, Palaniswami won her confidence. His loyalty will come handy for Sasikala as she tries to remote-control the party from prison.
 
 On Sasikala’s orders before she left for Bengaluru, Palaniswami and nine senior leaders of his group met Rao around 7.30pm. “We hope the governor will call us to form the government at the earliest,” former minister D Jayakumar told reporters outside Raj Bhavan.
 
 Soon after the AIADMK team left, OPS reached there with his nine men and sought the governor’s intervention to “set free” MLAs from the Koovathur resort before taking a final call. “We explained to the governor that most of the MLAs are unlawfully confined to the resort for nearly a week,” a leader said. He added that OPS enjoyed the support of a majority of MLAs in the resort.
 
 A party leader said  , who joined the OPS camp on Monday, explained to the governor how he escaped from the resort and how many others are held captive there. AIADMK spokesman Nanjil Sampath, who is with the Palaniswami camp, said his group which has a majority was given only five minutes audience with the governor, while Panneerselvam was allotted half an hour.
 
