AHMEDABAD: Three persons died and six persons sustained severe injuries in a   on   near Loliya village at 10 pm on Saturday. All three deceased are from Ahmedabad.

 According to  , the accident took place when a mini truck tried to overtake a car. In the process, the truck went off the road. The driver steered sharply to get it back on track when it obstructed the road and two cars coming from opposite direction hit the truck, toppling it.
 
 “The truck was carrying a group of devotees from Ahmedabad going towards Radha Swami temple at Loliya. 
 
 All three dead were seated in the truck. They have been identified as Tarun Manglani, 26, a resident of Sardarnagar, Harsish Parmanandani, 51, a resident of Juna Vadaj, and Karan Talwani, 36, a resident of Naranpura,” said a Koth police official.
 
 Six others, Ashwin Solanki, 40, Bharat Solanki, 30, Upendra Patel, 42, Jay Patel, 28, Ravi Vaghela, 38, and Naitik Jani, 32 - are shifted to Community Health Centre at Bagodara by EMRI 108 teams. A few others were given first aid treatment at the spot. Koth police said that while one car was from Ahmedabad, another has Dadra and Nagar Haveli registration number plate. Police have registered a complaint against the truck driver and have started investigation.
 
 
 
 
 A 43-year-old woman was hit by a speeding bike near Akhbarnagar crossroads on Sunday morning. As she fell, an AMTS bus crushed her under its front wheels. She died on the spot.
 
  According to Naranpura police, Rita Rathod, 43, a resident of Nirnaynagar, was passing by Akbarnagar petrol pump on her scooter at 11.15 am on Sunday. At that time, a bike came from a diagonally opposite direction and hit her.
 
 “The impact was so great that she was flung from her vehicle and fell on the road where an AMTS bus coming from behind her hit her before the bus driver could put on brakes. We, however believe that the accident took place because of the earlier collision,” said a police investigator.
 
 Locals called up EMRI 108 but the paramedics declared her dead on the spot when they arrived. 
 
