MUMBAI: Even as the   is pushing the  ,600-crore   in the Arabian Sea, questions are being raised about the project and its viability. APLI Mumbai, a   that aims at making the city more liveable, accessed documents through RTI and concluded that the memorial site is unviable and tender conditions almost impossible to meet.

 APLI (A Port Lands Initiative) Mumbai is a group advocating the development of the city's neglected eastern waterfront (Wadala to Sassoon Docks). It is the group that sometime ago exposed massive coal dumping at Hajibunder on Mumbai Port Trust land.
 
 The government received three bids on February 24 from L&T, Shapoorji Pallonji-AFCONS and Reliance Infra for the memorial. The contract has to be awarded within 60 days. The timeframe for project completion is 36 months in the tender document.
 
 “The tender has listed impossible milestones for completion of each stage... under pain of liquidated damages--up to 10% for any delay . For instance, the coffer dam of 1.2km perimeter, with cells of 12m diameter, is to be completed within six months of award of contract.Relaxation of these stipulations now will attract a legal challenge from those who did not bid because of the falsely stringent conditions,“ said vice-admiral (retd) I C Rao, who is part of APLI Mumbai.
 
 “My assessment is that the government will continue postponing the commencement of construction of the unviable project. Nevertheless, it will continue wasteful expenditure to satisfy political compulsions, and lead the bidders on a fruitless chase of perceived glory ,“ Rao said. But Vinayak Mete, chair man of the state governmentappointed committee to oversee the project, said, “The site has been finalized after enough thought and research. Engineers from the government as well as private consultants have approved of it.“
 
 The APLI report said the statue's height will pose a challenge for the structural design to withstand winds. It said the project's environment impact assessment did not take into consideration the demands it will put on natural resources. “The memorial will require 10 lakh tons of rock for the breakwaters and seven lakh tons of sand for creating the island,“ said the report.
 
 Reacting to a TOI report last week about a plan to increase the statue's height from 192m to 210m, Rao said the consultants assigned for the task were given to study 192m. “The consultants' fee is Rs 89 crore. Any change in the project will require new drawings and more fees,“ he said. Another hurdle is that the site is unapproachable by ferry during the monsoon (May 25 May to August 31).
 
 Mete said the project has huge tourism potential and will show the legacy of Shivaji.“All necessary steps have been incorporated in planning the project. It will be an iconic project, a one-of-a-kind project.“
 
 The group has approached the government with its concerns and proposal for an alternative site. It has also met Mete.
 
