With all hell breaking loose between   and Gaythathri-Harathi duo, the men in the   house only seem to be spectators. No one seems to have the guts to get into the situation and find an end to it. Despite Vaiyapuri noticing   calling Julie as nurse all the time, which he says in a discussion with  ,   and  , he never seems to openly express his thoughts to the housemates involved.

 Shakthi who acknowledges that that calling Julie a nurse all the time is wrong also prefers to keep quiet rather than solving the issue. Ganja Karupu was the only one who tried solving the issue, but he was in support of   and Harathi and demanding respect from Julie for them. It is very clear that the film fraternity inside the house, minus   and Bharani are totally together and don't want to argue even for the right reasons. They all seem to gang up against Julie or just keep quiet when a few of them gang up on her.
 
  
 While Shakthi warns Ganja Karupu that it was wrong on his part to demand respect for Harathi saying she is as artist, Arav also joins in to refrain Ganja Karupu from getting involved in these fights. Shakthi says it is enough to give it back when there is a problem with us and not get involved in others' fight. He also believes that Julie is being poked all the time.
 
  
 Ganesh Venkatram tries to console a crying Julie, but he too doesn't want to take up the issue. He seems to be a person who tries to do counseling for individuals but doesn't talk it out with the other person. Even while Julie is seen saying sorry, Arav and Shakthi acknowledge that she is a good person who is being cornered all the time. Snehan is seen keeping quiet when Shakthi and Arav are talking about this. Later Arav tries to explain Gayathri about Harathi's sarcasm when it involves Julie. 
 
  
 Wonder why all these men in the Bigg Boss house keep their mouth shut. Looks like they don't get that it's only 10 days. There will be situations when they will have to take a stand for the right things. Let's wait and watch when these men open up.
 
