There is not much variation in number of voters for civic and other elections. Last year, the turnout for city’s civic   was around 55% — almost the same as state elections. Only half of the city’s valid electorate voting is a cause of concern.

 
 This percentage represents people’s will. Politics has become a bad word — people are perplexed and just want to stay away. The kind of candidates they would like to see are mostly not fielded by parties. Not influenced by public opinion,   parties do not put forth an issue-based agenda which is why citizens tend to be detached from elections.
 
 
 The city is now housing the state’s chief minister and this has added a different kind of an aura to the elections. The mood change might help in increasing the voting percentage. On the flip side, the constituency has expanded with 38 wards and this might result in a weaker democracy. Till now, the candidates had better proximity and accessibility. But now political parties will have more play rather than independent candidates. Local issues might just get diluted. 
 
 
 The agendas that will be put on board will be more organized. Parties should give first priority to candidates who are close to people. Absence of issue-based politics has always been a curse for   and focus should be on shifting towards it.
 
 
 To a certain extent, yes. Nagpur is very cosmopolitan — minorities like Sikhs, Buddhists, Muslims and OBC’s are in majority here. While the propagandists of separate Vidarbha feel that the region has remained isolated from development, the movement also draws a line between Marathis and others. Since the latter are present here in large numbers too, the movement could not gain the momentum. Same reason why Maratha morcha did not get a huge response — the Kunbis are more in numbers. This divide can turn into a counterview in the polls. What matters is how inclusive a party will be.
 
 
 The intention is good but it’s a very subjective issue. For example — low-caste politics is purely based on caste and this judgement can put politics in jeopardy. I am not sure how well it would be implemented here but it will certainly tone down the sharp edges of political campaigns that are centred on caste and religion.
 
 
 National issues like demonetization, that have the potency to affect every individual, play a vital role in local polls. But the biggest advantage with civic elections is that people see first-hand results. Candidates who are re-contesting should be judged on the work they have done for the city. People need to see candidates beyond their parties. It’s not necessary a party that is doing well nationally would give same results here.
 
 
 Nagpur’s politics has been a bit peculiar. With RSS and BJP having strong roots here, it is mostly rules by right-wing. While earlier RPI was one of the overpowering parties, the left-wing has now faded away. But post 1980s, BJP and Congress are the major game-players. It might be hard for a party like BSP to reach its earlier tally. Politics also saw a mass shift. Though traditionally the ball was in Congress’ court, the local politics largely shifted to BJP, major trigger dissatisfaction. 
 
 (  is a senior assistant professor at department of political science,  ).
 
 
