JAIPUR: Startling new facts emerged in the alleged   story on Thursday after police completed two days of investigation, including physical verification of facts and studying technical surveillance data.

 The 22-year-old woman has not only confessed to fabricating the alleged rape story along with her boyfriend (whom the police refused to name), it was allegedly done to implicate another youth for blackmail.
 
 In her story, the woman had claimed to hire and share an autorickshaw from the railway station along with four men who allegedly took her to a park in the city and gang-raped her.
 
 The police also checked other loopholes in the story and are studying legal angles to book both the woman and her boyfriend in the blackmailing case.
 
 Since the matter came to light on Tuesday morning, the   had maintained that there were some loopholes in the ‘victim's’ narration of the alleged gang-rape.
 
 These included how the woman took an autorickshaw, which was already carrying four men, and why she called up her brother to say that she would be late and asked him to have his dinner.
 
 As the police were unable to get the initial claims made by her verified physically, they collected her mobile call details, which actually proved handy to solve the mystery behind the gang-rape.
 
 “All I can tell you at this point of time is that the woman never hired an autorickshaw with four men in it already. Secondly, she was not taken to any city park for gang-rape,” said  , additional commissioner of police (crime), on Thursday.
 
 The call details of the girl suggested that on Monday evening while she was travelling she was constantly in touch with a cell number. “It was found to be that of a youth who is acquainted with the girl. When this youth was detained and questioned, he told us that the both of them had chosen a boy identified as Sandeep (22), a native of Chomu, as a soft target for blackmailing. The duo invited him to a flat where the girl had consensual sex. A camera was installed in the room as well. At 4am, the boy Sandeep left the flat. The duo then cooked up the story of gang rape and sensationalised it so that they could extort a hefty amount from the youth,” said a senior police officer on condition of anonymity.
 
 Senior police officers claimed that the girl too had confessed to fabricating the whole story to blackmail the youth. “There are still certain facts which we need to verify. But one thing is clear. She has not been gang-raped or raped at all the whole night,” said  , police commissioner, Jaipur.
 
 “We will have a clear picture of the case by Friday morning,” he added. The police have recorded fresh statements of the woman and confiscated the videos.
 
