KOLKATA: The latest addition to the piracy menace is live streaming of movies on  . On Wednesday, live streaming of ‘Tomake Chai’ had close to 1,400 viewers illegally watching the movie on social media till it was pulled off after a complaint. The industry is now grappling to find ways of tackling this new problem.

 Producer   said: “A single-screen theatre doesn’t even have a capacity of 1,400 viewers. A person can just go to a theatre can live stream to 1,400 or more viewers. Earlier, with pen rive or CD piracy, the viewing was limited. But with live streaming, the industry is going to bleed badly.”
 
 Director  , whose son Bonny acted in ‘Tomake Chai’, said live streaming of old movies might not be a big issue. 
 
 “My son’s film was released last year and has already been shown on television. But the problem will be if new films are streamed this way,” he said.
 
 In the early 90s, Sengupta had his first brush with this menace when prints of his Tapas Pal-starrer ‘Sinthir Sindoor’ was pirated. “When the prints were physically transported, a person assisting in the move helped pirate them. The main culprit was then tracked to  . Today, with technological advancement, it is no surprise that social media tools are adding to piracy woes. This is bad news for the industry.”
 
 Last year, a student in the US took a mobile phone to the premiere of ‘A Aa’ and began recording the movie and live streaming it on Facebook. But the infringement was reportedly monitored by an anti-piracy team in Hyderabad and a complaint was lodged immediately. On April 12, 2016, Facebook introduced a tool called Rights Manager that enabled a copyright owner to upload parts of a film — or an entire film. If someone tried to live stream this content, the video matching tool would spot it and send a notification to the film’s owner. If the copyright holder wanted a video that matches his/her reference files to be removed from Facebook, he/she would then submit a Takedown Report.
 
 The creators of Rights Manager initially had to manually take action every time a video was matched. The revised format now allows an owner to set an action to happen automatically when a match to their content is found on Facebook.
 
 However, Soni isn’t too convinced about the benefits of the tool. “We had thrice applied for access to the Right Manager and was rejected twice. Besides, we make so many films in a year, how much of content are we going to upload on Rights Manager? What’s the guarantee that this content too will not be misused there?”
 
 Sengupta said the only way to tackle this issue is to have a wide release of movies so that the business is done way before piracy can attack. Producer   of Anik Dutta’s ’Meghnad Badh Rahasya’, which releases on July 14, said, “Bengal Film and Television Chamber of Commerce will be hosting a general committee meeting of   in Kolkata. A Chennai-based company has developed a software to curb online piracy. I want to use their services to protect my film.”
 
