NEW DELHI: "UP ko yeh saath pasand hai".   are set to inaugurate their alliance for the UP elections with this slogan focussing on the partnership between chief minister Akhilesh Yadav and Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi. 

  The slogan will be unveiled when the Yadav and Gandhi GenNext share the dais on January 29. It will be a joint press conference followed or preceded by a shared event, possibly a public meeting. As the duo comes together, poll managers are trying to tell voters through the slogan that on offer in this contest is the  , not merely their parties. 
 
  According to sources, the campaign will revolve around the two leaders. The strategy is to brand the alliance as a novel offer and help dilute the anti-incumbency that SP is bound to be saddled with. Having announced the tie-up, the challenge before the two parties is to ensure a collaboration on the ground which transcends the seat-sharing arrangement and results in transfer of votes. 
 
  In keeping with the objective, Rahul and Akhilesh are likely to stage joint rallies during the protracted campaign over seven phases. While bringing the duo together on the campaign trail, the alliance will target PM Modi -- who is set to scorch the state to lobby support for BJP - as the "outsider" pitted against the "local boys". 
 
  According to strategists, the alliance has a few positives going for it. The backing of a national outfit like Congress for "secular" SP will boost its standing with minorities and check the drift of Muslims to rival BSP. 
 
  Managers said they were highlighting the "youth quotient" of Akhilesh and Rahul to woo young voters across caste barriers. 
 
  Akhilesh, by trumping the Yadav old guard, is seen to have softened the coarse caste identity of SP while his alliance with "moderate" Congress will further add to his "identity-neutral" appeal for non-Yadavs, strategists claimed. The launch slogan flows from the whole-hearted embrace of the alliance by Congress. No sooner was the tie-up clinched last Sunday that Congress unveiled the hashtag "Rahul Akhilesh saath saath" to indicate where it was headed. 
 
 
