BAREILLY:  , the truck driver who said his relative Syed Imtiyaz Qadri had impersonated him in court to say he was the one driving Dr Manish Rawat’s Audi that killed four on January 28 in Indirapuram, filed a   against the duo in Bareilly on Tuesday.

 Ishaq said the complaint was for “misuse of my driving licence”. He added that on January 28 at 1pm, he had paid tax at a toll plaza in Ahmedabad, “which can be easily verified”. Police said an FIR would be registered after an inquiry.
 
 In his written complaint to the Bareilly senior superintendent of police (SSP), Ahmad claimed that Qadri, his co-tenant at Peer Bohra village in Bareilly, had tricked and cheated him. Qadri, using a photocopy of Ishaq’s driving licence, had surrendered at a Ghaziabad court on January 31, maintaining that he was the one at the wheels of Rawat’s Audi. The court had granted him bail after which he quietly went back to his village in Bareilly. Hours before raids on his house by the local police on Sunday, Quadri disappeared once again.
 
 Ishaq added in his complaint: “It also appears that my driving license was used with the support of Rawat and others. Hence, I want police to book them. I have also been getting threat calls for reaching out to the police and lodging a complaint.” He has demanded registration of an FIR against Qadri and Rawat, and police protection for himself. 
 
 SP (crime) MP Singh, who received Ishaq’s complaint on behalf of the SSP, said, “I have ordered circle officer (Nawabganj) to conduct a probe into the matter. We will take further action accordingly.”
 
 Meanwhile, cops from Ghaziabad reached Bareilly to record statement of Ishaq’s family members. Ishaq could not meet the police team as he was recording his statement at the SSP’s office. “I will leave for Ghaziabad on Wednesday to inform them about the truth,” he said.
 
 Ishaq’s father Jameel said, “I told the Ghaziabad police team that my son drives a truck and that he was in Ahmedabad at the time of the incident.”
 
 Station officer at Indirapuram (Ghaziabad) SK Mishra, who came to Bareilly to meet Ishaq and trace Qadri, said, “I have asked Ishaq to record his statement at Indirapuram. We will lodge an FIR against Qadri at Indirapuram as the incident took place there and not in Bareilly. However, we can't book Rawat for misuse of license as he has nothing to do with it.” 
 
 Asked why Rawat didn’t match the photo on the driving licence with Qadri, Mishra said, “He checked the name and address but didn't focus on the photograph as it was hazy. Qadri was using Ishaq's driving license in Bareilly too. During investigation, it came to light that people here know him as ‘Ishaq’. However, the real Ishaq said he was unaware of it. We are trying to nab Qadri.”
 
 
