KOLKATA: Huge demand and inadequate supply. It was the same story at most of the highway liquor shops, which reopened on Tuesday evening. The retailers — both off- and on-shops — which got a new lease of life following the state government’s highway denotification order on Tuesday were seen doing a brisk business on Wednesday as customers started pouring in for their weekly quota of alcohol. 

 Partha Chatterjee, owner of a liquor shop on BT Road near Dunlop, welcomed the state government’s decision on denotification of some stretches of state highways passing through municipal areas. “It is a good move of the state government which has saved liquor industry in and around highways. Otherwise, this industry would have hurt badly,” he added. 
 
 However, Chatterjee pointed out that the main problem of the liquor shops that resumed operation on Wednesday was inadequate stock. “We have not added stocks in the last one week because uncertainty was looming large. The demand is quite high now but we do not have much stock,” he said. 
 
 A veteran member of West Bengal State Excise Licensee Association pointed out that there was a surge in demand for liquor in the 750-odd liquor shops and bar on state highways. “But, lack of stock is becoming a big worry for us,” he added. 
 
 B Saha, a shopowner in  , said that his shop was empty and he purchased a truck of beer and wine worth Rs 10 lakh for the forthcoming summer season. 
 
 However, some liquor retailers are in a dilemma before reopening their shops. Madhu Mondal, a liquor seller in  , though lauded the decision of the state government but pointed out that he was yet to have any official paper for reopening the store. 
 
 A K Saha & Co, the famous liquor shop in Serampore on G T Road was opened on Wednesday morning and did good business. 
 
 R Samanta, a bar-cum-restaurant operator on Kalyani Expressway, was a relieved soul on Wednesday. “There was hardly any business in my restaurant in the past four days as we could not serve liquor,” he added. 
 
 Owner of another liquor shop in the area said that there is a definite surge in sales since Tuesday evening. “We used to sell Rs 1 lakh a day now. It has gone up to Rs 1.25 lakh,” he added. 
 
 M Bhowmik of Classic Inn Hotel and Restaurant in Haldia admitted that his business is mainly based on liquor sales and Tuesday’s order from the state has saved him
 
