Even as official data showed that the GDP (gross domestic product) grew at 7.1% in the third quarter of 2016-17 belying fears about the impact of demonetisation on the economy, the Indian ‘Sales Managers Index’ (SMI) released by London-based World Economics, which produces data and analysis on the global economy, fell to its lowest level in three years in February.

 The February headline SMI has fallen to an index level of 60.2 in unadjusted terms. “Managers are reporting a big drop in monthly sales for both the consumer and industrial sectors, with small to medium size businesses that predominantly deal with cash transactions, being hardest hit,” World Economics said.
 
 “The Indian Sales Managers Index for February, shows the after effects of the demonetisation policy which was intended to crack down on corruption and black money,” it said. “Overall, February SMI data suggests an erratic situation for Indian businesses as they meet market challenges with considerably lower levels of confidence, slower monthly sales and higher prices caused by the currency situation.”
 
 “The cash policy has had the effect of forcing up the overall ‘Prices Charged Index’ to levels not seen since spring 2013, when the rupee was valued at ₹53.92 against the US dollar, it is now trading at ₹67.29,” World Economics said.
 
 Micro, small and medium enterprises continue to bear the brunt of demonetisation with loans given by banks to these segments declining over 8% on a year-on-year (y-o-y) basis in January. Credit to small and micro enterprises fell 7.4% y-o-y and to medium enterprises by 10.2% y-o-y, down for the twelfth straight month, RBI data showed. Credit to industries declined 5.1% y-o-y in January compared to a of 4.3% y-o-y drop in December 2016.
 
 “We believe the ill effects of demonetisation on consumer durables, vehicle and home loans will be felt in Q4 (fourth quarter) FY17 (2016-17), which is likely to put pressure on overall credit offtake,” said Parag Jariwala, vice president, Institutional Research, banking and financial services, Religare Capital Markets.
 
 The SMI provides indication of the speed and direction of economic growth in India each month. It covers all private sector activity. The SMI is a composite index of business confidence, market growth, sales, prices charged and staffing levels.
 
 
