GURUGRAM: A day after the   Sarvekshan 2017 was announced, Gurgaon’s civic bosses claimed they were working on a multi-pronged strategy to help the   get rid of its ‘dirty’ image and improve the overall state of  .

 In the nationwide   survey,   City has ranked 112 among 434 cities, slipping sharply from its 36th position (out of 73 cities) in 2016.
 
 To start with, MCG, which now seems to have woken up from its slumber, has decided to build 200 public or community toilets by mid-June to help the city achieve open-defecation-free status by September 30. With only 38 such toilets currently in place, the city scored only 85 (out of 300) in the category of ‘open-defecation free’.
 
 MCG officials said efforts were being made to restart the solid waste management plant at Bandhwari, near the Gurgaon-Faridabad toll plaza. The plant, which has been lying defunct since a fire in 2013, receives around 500 tonnes of waste on a daily basis.
 
 “We are expecting to start plant again in six months or so,” said MCG commissioner V Umashankar. He added that Rs 87.1 crore had been set aside for the purpose of sanitation during the current financial year, up from Rs 31.5 crore earmarked in 2016-2017.
 
 To ensure better solid waste management, civic officials have decided to lay more stress on segregation and composting of garbage locally. Sources claimed one of the main reasons for the city’s poor performance in cleanliness parameters was a poor door-to-door garbage collection mechanism, failure to segregate garbage and untrained sanitation workers. 
 
 “Composting at complexes or residential societies helps reduce the amount of waste lying on city streets, and lessens the load on waste management plants. Proper segregation makes the job easier for sanitation workers and improves cleanliness,” said Umashankar. 
 
 According to the MCG commissioner, two such composting units are already operational at Chakkarpur and Nathupur, while 16-odd societies have expressed willingness to set up similar mechanisms to manage waste. The civic body will bear the cost of these composting units. “The corporation is planning to establish such composting sites across the city by March 2018,” he claimed. 
 
 While a door-to-door garbage collection mechanism is already in place, MCG is planning to impose levy on societies that do not have their own composting units and depend on the civic body for day-to-day cleaning. A plant to manage construction waste is set to become operational by May 10, and MCG will carry out a citywide drive to remove all concrete waste soon. 
 
 
