 tehzeeb as well as the zubaan has always been the center of curiosity for many. Even movies typecast Urdu speakers as only nawabs or poets, garnering even more interest. But if you feel Urdu language needs revival in India,  , the founder of   counters by saying that the interest in the language is growing robust by every passing day. "Based on the demographics on our website, rekhta.org, we find that over 70 per cent of visitors are in the age group of 18-35 and the number is simply soaring.   witnesses young poets and poetry enthusiasts every year whose passionate enthusiasm drives us further to continue our commitment to our first love, Urdu poetry." Here are excerpts from the interview:
 
 
 
 The festival has been critically acclaimed by scholars and connoisseurs of the language, and has received support from the literary, film and music fraternity from across the globe. However, our most cherished memory is of the massive participation the festival enjoys by youth from diverse linguistic, religious, social and cultural backgrounds. By being free and open to all, the Jashn has ensured that the celebration of Urdu remains an inclusive project. Many among our audience have embraced Urdu as their own despite it not being their mother tongue, while others have expressed a deep inclination to learn it. We feel that the festival opens up a sensory experience to live and love the language, thereby strengthening its roots in the public consciousness. The festival has grown organically to reach more than a lakh people since its inception in 2015.
  
 
 
 The Jashn has endeavoured to preserve the rich cultural heritage of Urdu and bring its diverse flavours to the masses. The traditional Urdu poetry game of Baitbaazi−which is otherwise neglected−will enjoy a grand presence at the festival this year. The session, ‘Urdu ka Adaalati Lehja’ will explore the contribution of Urdu to the Indian judicial discourse and vocabulary over the decades, and will attempt to situate the history of the language as it replaced Persian as the court-language. We are hosting a Tamseeli Mushaira where the artists impersonate other poets in dress and recitation style, and put across a dramatized representation of a traditional mushaira. Apart from the ancient craft of storytelling- dastangoi, the audience will witness tazmin, which has been one of the celebrated old literary practices. This art features a poet honouring another poet by creating and reciting poetry following the metre, rhythm and rhyme of the latter as a standard.
  
 
 
 Jashn-e-Rekhta 2017 is honoured to host the best in the field of literature, academia, music, film and television. However, for us the biggest highlight of the festival is that we have made it more inclusive and participative this year. Open forum spaces like Khuli Nishist and other interactive sessions have been planned with the objective of encouraging the audience to write and give voice to their heart-felt expressions. As a part of ‘Alfaaz Aapke, Awaaz Hamari’, RJ Sayema has invited ghazals and short stories written by people, many of which will be read by her at the festival. We wish to encourage people to understand literature as an art they can live and the reactions, responses have been overwhelming so far. Additionally, we have given a prominent space to young and fresh talent this year- be it an 11-year old music sensation from Bangalore or a motley group of young poetry enthusiasts from Pune.
  
 
 
 There has been a continuous stream of poets, fiction writers, critics, linguistics, lexicologists, chroniclers who have made invaluable contribution to shaping and enriching the Urdu language, literature and culture. Even then, post-independence poets like Jigar Moradabadi, Raghupati Sahai, better known as Firaq Gorakhpuri, Ali Sardar Jafri, Manchanda Bani, Shahryar, Nida Fazli and fiction writers like Krishna Chander, Ismat Chughtai, Rajinder Singh Bedi, Balraj Menra who have been on the forefront of literary creativity.
  
 
 
 Premchand is one of the founder-writers of the Progressive Writers’ Movement. He holds the honour of being the first story writer in Urdu who later turned to writing in Hindi, thereby gifting both the languages an inimitable storyteller. He laid the foundation of progressive Urdu stories which touched upon the previously unexplored world of Indian villages, the plight of the lower castes, the struggle of the downtrodden and the sentiment of a commoner. His legacy continues to inspire writers and his readers even today.
 
 Jashn-e-Rekhta is a celebration of Urdu culture. To limit it to one language would be to undermine the presence and depth of Urdu in the sub-continent. The language has borrowed more than 99 per cent verbs from Sanskrit and Prakrit and enjoys a heavy influence of the Arabic and Persian literary and cultural traditions. The Jashn is a celebration of the culture that finds synthesis in Urdu, with the language being a tongue of the masses, one where smallest of regions of India find themselves represented.
 
 
 
 Certainly not! There has been a rich Urdu poetic tradition in India with many kings and nobles who were patrons of the art. Urdu poetry is not simply a literary exercise, but also a part of our cultural memory. Several poets have also been those who embraced Urdu much later in their life and endeavoured to amalgamate their inner expression with the lyrical possibilities the language offers. Urdu poetry has successfully opened itself up to both- romantic and revolutionary sentiment and has inspired millions with its feverish charm. It is no surprise that poetry of  , despite over a century having passed since its creation, is still quoted in our cinema, our households, our classrooms and in our everyday exchanges.
  
 Jashn-e-Rekhta witnesses young poets and poetry enthusiasts every year whose passionate enthusiasm drives us further to continue our commitment to our first love, Urdu poetry. In our perception, there is a resurgence of Urdu, especially among what are commonly known as non-Urdu wallahs.
  
 
 Urdu is not merely a language in India, rather it is a fusion of myriad cultural sensibilities. Languages do not belong to any borders, laws, governments or divisive forces. They reside deep inside the ordinary sentiments and shared cultural memories of the people, and have an intuitive way of seeping into their intimate lives. Post-partition politics has certainly impacted acceptance of the language, as it has been identified with a particular religion. Also, there is a perception that Urdu is a foreign language. Both these perceptions are erroneous as Urdu is spoken across the entire sub-continent by people of all religious communities. Also, Urdu vocabulary has a majority of words from the sub-continent and the remaining have been borrowed from Arabic, Persian and Turkish languages. One of the primary aims of Rekhta Foundation is to correct these misconceptions and reclaim the heritage we celebrate as Urdu, bringing it back to the masses.
  
 
 
 Urdu is a shared cultural heritage of our sub-continent and has been born and evolved and nurtured here over the last many centuries. While partition may have drawn a line on land, the language has no nationality. The absence of participants of Pakistan this year is definitely regrettable. While we had invited a number of people to participate in the festival, there is an apprehension about visiting India at this time. We would hope that the situation improves in future.
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
