THANE: 

 
   Iqbal Kaskar 
 
 , arrested by the Thane police in an extortion case, has refuted claims that his elder brother and India's most wanted, 

 
   Dawood Ibrahim 
 
 , is unwell, said policemen interrogating him.

 There have been reports that the global terrorist, now in his sixties, suffers from a chronic illness and could be negotiating a deal to return to India. On Thursday, MNS chief   said the BJP is working on such a "settlement" with  , who is "quite ill", in a bid to improve its poll prospects.
 
 Earlier,   told his interrogators that Dawood is presently in Pakistan, and shared four-five addresses of the don in the country. He claimed Dawood moves around with security but without any physical difficulty.
 
 Kaskar, arrested on September 18 with two of his aides after a Thane builder filed a case of extortion against him, has also claimed that Dawood's wife   met his wife Rizwana in Dubai last year. "She had travelled on a Pakistani passport, and he claimed he does not remember the name on it," said a police officer.
 
 
 
 
 Kaskar said he last spoke to "his bhabhi" at that time over Rizwana's mobile phone.Rizwana lives mostly in Dubai with their four grown-up children. Earlier, cops had said Kaskar claimed Dawood had stopped calling his family in India for fear of phone tapping.
 
 Investigators are trying to gather information on the bank accounts of Kaskar and his aides in a bid to figure out the extortion money trail. "Kaskar told us he does not hold any bank account, neither has he given or received cheques from anyone. It is likely that most of the transactions were made in cash or he could be using his ai des' bank accounts," said a police officer. A Thane jeweller has also filed a case of extortion, which Kaskar is accused of running in nexus with some local politicians.
 
 They are also looking into the possibility that besides Thane, Navi Mumbai and Mumbai, the extortion ring could have been operational in Nashik. "One of Kaskar's relatives is involved in criminal activities in Nashik, Kaskar has told us. We are trying to find out if the extortion racket ran there too with his help," said Abhishek Trimukhe, deputy commissioner of police (crime).
 
 Asenior police officer said they have identified a couple of more accused in the extortion case who are likely to be arrested in a day or two.
 
 
 
 
