MANIPAL: It can be wearisome for patients to walk around with a catheter – a narrow tube inserted into an orifice of the body to remove fluids — tied to them in a hospital. Moreover, moving around with a catheter also increases chances of contracting catheter urinary tract infection (CAUTI). However, a simple device designed by faculty members of  , Manipal not only hides the catheter making it less of a burden to walk around with, but also reduces chances of contracting CAUTI.

 Designed by  ,   and  ,   eases unobstructed flow of urine through the catheter, and prevents traction when patients are mobile.
 
 Pointing out that common occurrence of CAUTI among patients inspired the teachers to come up with the device, Manipal College of Nursing dean Dr Anice George said, “A large number of CAUTI cases can be prevented by properly managing the indwelling catheter and the urine collection bag. Securing the catheter and the bag to the body helps in flow of urine.”
 
 Urosac Comforter is a non-slippery, adjustable and comfortable system that can easily be secured to a patient’s thigh. “The device is prepared using two inches of stiff cotton bandage, with a cotton ring being used to tie around the Urosac bag. The rear side of the device has an adjustable Velcro that can be fastened around the thigh. Since the device is made entirely of cotton, skin is spared of any irritable feeling. The patient will be more comfortable with the device,” Dr George said.
 
 One of the designers of the device, Janet Alva said, “The comforter is washable and re-usable. We have tried it on patients, and the device will be manufactured commercially with some modifications.”
 
 Hopes of generating employment with Urosac Comforter
 
 Once the device is ready for mass production, Manipal College of Nursing plans on creating jobs for women, who will be employed to make the Urosac Comforter. Elsa Sanatombi Devi, professor and head Department of Medical Surgical Nursing, Manipal College of Nursing, Manipal said that they were in talks with the Bharat Vikas Trust to initiate mass production of Urosac Comforter. “They will be sold to hospitals across India, and will help women with little education get jobs,” she said.
 
