PUNE: The political campaigning, loaded with allegations and counter allegations, ended on Sunday but voters are yet to get a clear idea on the parties’ vision for the city.

 Various citizen groups in the city said that though the party manifestos addressed a number of issues, they were not communicated properly to voters, leaving many residents disappointed. 
 
 “None of us are clear on what the political parties will do for the city. Many core issues were not touched upon during campaigning. While some local problems were addressed, larger issues were not touched,” Shymala Desai, secretary of  , said. 
 
 The Samiti had recently arranged a meeting of 32 candidates from their three wards, but only 22 turned up. Desai said that the candidates were unable to give an answer to many queries on local issues. 
 
 Desai added that the areas are big, leading to uncertainty in residents’ minds about how the issues will be addressed when four corporators come up for one particular ward. “Will they have a common agenda or will there be chaos,” she wondered, adding that they have motivated all residents to vote in the election. 
 
  said they have handed over a long list of demands to candidates in their area, which extends from Bopodi to Pashan. “Whether these demands will be fulfilled is something that has to be seen,” said D V R Rao of the mandal. 
 
 Residents feel that besides parties’ agenda, the four-ward system is also adding to the overall confusion. 
 
 “The four-ward system is almost a violation of the 74th amendment distancing the voter from governance. However, we have urged people to vote and explained the system to them,” said Satish Khot, member of the National Society of Clean Cities.
 
 Maithilii Manakawad, secretary of Wanowrie Residents’ Forum, said that they had arranged a ‘know your candidate’ event in the area but then realized that the voters were confused about the ward system. “The process had little time to reach voters. Moreover, candidates were also not able to reach out to all voters with in the given time frame and explain the system,” Manakawad said.
 
 She added that the process would be even more confusing for voters from lower-income, underprivileged backgrounds.
 
 While voters have been complaining about their issues, political parties point out that little time and uncertainty over names in voters’ lists added to confusion among voters. 
 
 “With the booth-wise list seeing a new sequence, distribution of voters slip from parties was delayed. Candidates who had to focus on campaigning had to instead address this issue,” MLA Medha Kulkarni said. She added that 80% of candidates have been able to reach out to their voters.
 
 First-time voter Megha Shimpi said that she has been able to understand the four-ward system through newspapers but some political parties insisting that the same symbol must be used for all four groups has created confusion. 
 
 “Voters have to be told that they have the option to choose different people for different groups, and only if they feel a candidate is good enough should they vote for the same symbol,” Shimpi said. 
 
 Earlier on Friday, citizens’ groups had drawn the attention of election authorities to the confusion created by political parties about the voting process by saying that unless voters cast all the four votes for the candidates of one party, their votes will be invalid. The campaigners, quite cleverly, had stressed on voting for the same party symbol in the panel of four candidates, a fact that many voters felt was an unethical practice.
 
 
