PUNE: A sessions court on Tuesday extended the   of Sanatan Sanstha sadhak  , the lone suspect arrested in the   murder case till January 17, after the   sought time for filing its reply on his plea for production of certain documents to ensure proper probe. Tawde is lodged in judi cial custody since his arrest on June 10 last year for alleged criminal conspiracy , murder and common intention. The CBI filed a chargesheet on September 7, 2016 and the matter is since due for framing of charges and commencement of trial.
On November 16 last year, the CBI's counsel had made an oral submission that the opening of the case by the prosecution be kept in abeyance for at least three months as the probe agency was awaiting receipt of a ballistic report from the  , UK.
 
 Additional sessions judge P Y Ladekar then refer red to CBI's assurance to the Bombay high court on September 29, 2016 that it will get the ballistic report within six weeks. “I do not find any justifiable reason to keep the matter in abeyance for three months. If forensic report is awaited, it can definitely be filed in the interim report if it is relevant to the case,“ the judge said. The court then deferred the framing of charges to November 28, 2016.
 
 On December 23, Tawde's lawyer Virendra Ichalkaranjikar filed a plea for production of certain documents by the CBI, arguing that the same were relevant to the investigation of other angles in the murder case.That, the CBI referred to notings and statements from these documents in the chargesheet, but avoided producing the same before the court, the plea stated.The court then directed the CBI to furnish a reply on this plea by January 3. On Tuesday , the CBI stated in a fresh application that its appeal against the trial court's November 16, 2016 order to proceed with the framing of charges against Tawde is due for hearing before the Bombay high court on January 24.The agency filed this appeal on December 13, 2016.
 
 As such, it needed some more time to file a reply on Tawde's plea. The court granted the plea by extending Tawde's custody .
 
 A hearing related to the high court-monitored probe in the murders of Dabholkar and veteran leftist Govindrao Pansare is also due on January 20. At the last hearing on December 16, 2016, the CBI had informed the high court that apart from the ballistic report from the Scotland Yard, it was seeking a third-party independent expert opinion on differing views taken by the forensic labs at Kalina in Mumbai and in Bengaluru over the forensic evidence collected by the agency .
 
