NEW DELHI:   supply was hit in several parts of the city as “dangerously high” levels of ammonia in raw water forced suspension of operations at Chandrawal and   treatment   on Sunday. Areas in north and central Delhi, Delhi Cantt, parts of south and   and those under   were affected. The   is likely to remain disrupted for a major part of Monday too.

 At the same time, a breach in the Munak canal affected supply at Haiderpur and Dwarka. Officials said the problem started due to a leak in the canal on Saturday night. An official said: “Other than Yamuna, two channels bring water to Delhi from Haryana -- Munak and the Delhi sub-branch. DSB’s capacity is much lower than Munak’s.” 
 
 The canal had to be closed for repairs after the leak. “As a result, production was down 50% at Haiderpur and almost completely halted at Dwarka.”
 
 Meanwhile, the share of Delhi’s water that comes via Munak was diverted to the river to be received at Wazirabad pond. “Here we encountered another problem. The water coming from Haryana is massively polluted with levels of ammonia fluctuating between 3 ppm and 4 ppm against a highest permissible treatable level of 1 ppm. We had to shut down Wazirabad and Chandrawal because it was impossible to treat the water,” added the official.
 
 Usually, water production starts getting curtailed if ammonia levels cross 0.5 ppm. In March 2016, an ammonia neutraliser plant was set up at Wazirabad, which, officials said, could work only for 1-1.5 hours and for levels as high as 1.5 ppm. 
 
 “Treatment of raw water needs to be suspended as ammonia, with the treating agent chlorine, gives rise to trihalomethane, which is carcinogenic in nature,” said the official.
 
 A team from Central Pollution Control Board picked up samples of Yamuna water from 10 locations. High levels of ammonia in raw water have led to shutting down or partial closure of WTPs on numerous occasions. In 2016, after three such closures, DJB chairman Kapil Mishra had written to water resources minister Uma Bharti, complaining about the frequent disruptions in water supply. However, no steps have been taken till now to rectify the problem.
 
 “Haryana has agreed to release 600 cusec water for Delhi through the DSB by Monday. Additionally, we are expecting the Munak canal to be repaired by Sunday night. Haryana will start releasing water through it from Monday morning. We hope to be able to resume supply in Dwarka and south and southwest Delhi by the evening. For other areas fed by Chandrawal and Wazirabad plants, we will have to wait for the ammonia levels to drop and cannot say how long that will take,” said another official.
 
 
