VADODARA:   (GM) that shut down its plant in Halol last month has extended its voluntary retirement scheme (VRS) offer for the workers. 

 The automobile major said on Thursday that it will accept fresh applications for VRS from the workers. But, the move hasn’t impressed the   (GEMU) which said that the amount of compensation is very less. 
 
 GM India president and managing director   said the step has been taken after a number of employees at the unit had individually approached the management seeking reopening of a separation scheme offered earlier. “As we continue to consolidate GM India manufacturing at our Talegaon plant, we are listening to our employees and supporting them through the transition,” Kazem said in a statement.
 
 He further said the company will consider fresh applications for the separation packages, which remains unchanged, but only for only a short period of time. “We are mindful of the impact on our workforce of ceasing GM production at Halol, but we need to ensure our manufacturing consolidation remains on track. 
 
 Halol employees have the option of a generous separation payment or continuity of employment at our Talegaon facility,” he said.
 
 The company’s employees who have so far not signed on for the separation package have received communication about transfer to Talegaon. The transfer process, including pre-transfer visits, begins early May, the company said. 
 
 GMEU, however, said the company is resorting to pressure tactics. “Not many are interested in taking the VRS. The workers are ready to shift to Talegaon plant if their salaries are increased to Rs 50,000 per month but the management isn’t making any promise. Workers are being told to join the Talegaon plant first and then their salaries will be negotiated. The extension of VRS scheme is just one of the pressure tactics by the management,” said Bhavesh Jaiswal, vice-president,  . 
 
 GM had earlier kept a deadline of March 28 for the workers seeking VRS. “The compensation amount is too less for the workers who have little scope of finding gain employment at this age,” Jaiswal added.
 
 
