PUNE: From official  , it appears the shadow of the erstwhile   still looms over it. 

 On January 19, the   led by   promulgated a new order to prescribe limits for procurement of cars. As per the order, the governor, chief minister, deputy chief minister, chief justice of the   and   will have no upper limit for purchase of cars and can buy cars of their choice.
 
 For cabinet members, ministers of state, judges of high court and up-lok ayukta, the limit has been fixed at Rs 20 lakh. Finance bureaucrats have probably forgotten that the post of deputy chief minister (DCM) was abolished when Fadnavis took over on October 31, 2014. In initial months, since it was a single party rule, there was no question of appointing a DCM.
 
 However, when the Shiv Sena joined the government, there was pressure on Fadnavis to create the DCM's post for Sena. But CM had rejected the proposal saying he did not want a parallel power centre. State of affairs State of affairs DGP Satish Mathur, one of the most distinguished IPS officers in the state, has missed the bus. 
 
 A few weeks ago, when the process to select the CBI director began, Mathur was in the zone of consideration along with Delhi police commissioner Alok Verma and Archana Ramasundaram, an IPS officer from Tamil Nadu.It was believed that Mathur stood a good chance. 
 
 However, he has lost to Verma on grounds of seniority . Incidentally , it was during Mathur's tenure as joint commissioner of police (traffic) that the campaign against drunken driving gained momentum; for the first time, offenders were sent to jail for a period ranging between one and seven days along with a heavy fine.
 
 Incidentally , it does appear that by and large, Maharashtra cadre IAS and IPS officers are reluctant to take up assignments in Delhi as they grow accustomed to a comfortable life in Mumbai. In the recent past, more than a dozen bureaucrats have been empanelled for central deputation, but barring one or two, none of them have taken up assignments. For the first time not a single secretary to the government of India is from Maharashtra. It may be a good idea if Fadnavis takes the lead to revive the tradition and ensure that officials from the state gain exposure to the process of policy-making in the higher echelons of government. 
 
 Beyond border For Union minister of state for defence Subhash Bhamare, it was a huge achievement when Pakistan sent ja wan Chandu Babulal Chavan back to India. Chavan belongs to a small village in Dhule district in north Ma harashtra, which is also Bhamare's hometown. A day after Chavan inadver tently crossed the line of control and entered Pa kistan from Mandher vil lage in Jammu and Kashmir, he was detai ned by the Pakistan ad ministration. 
 
 When Bhamare was informed that a soldier from his home town had been deta ined in Pakistan, he immediately initiated mea sures to secure his release. Bhamare assured Chavan's family members and the Lok Sabha that no stone would be left unturned.Bhamare repeatedly communicated with authorities in Pakistan on the subject. It was submitted that Chavan was not part of the September 29 surgical strike and that he had crossed the line of control by mistake. Simultaneously , talks were also held at the secretariat level. Chavan was finally handed over to Indian army officials at the Wagah border and when he reached his village, there was a huge celebration.
 
