PANAJI: Almost all   in Goa have been left to function without a headmaster or a   as a state policy over the years, as the government felt the funds would be better utilised elsewhere in the education sector.

  But, directorate of education (DoE) records show that close to 400 new posts have been created since 2010, yet no need was felt to revisit the policy on ‘no headmaster for government primary schools’, and accomodate a few for these positions.
 
 In July 2014, the state created the post of additional director of education to allow the promotion of education official Anil Powar. Interestingly, posts for 11 drivers were created in June 2011 to ferry education officials around, when 18 drivers’ posts already existed at the time.
 
 Similarly, five new posts of drawing teachers were created to add to the already-existing 64 posts of drawing teachers and 10 positions for computer teachers were created to increase the tally of that category to 100.
 
 Posts created after 2010 also include 325 positions for English teachers for government primary schools, a need for which was felt following the debate being triggered in Goa on whether English or   is the right medium of instruction at the primary school level in Goa.
 
 Among the old posts, DoE has created 145 posts of lower divisional clerks over the years and 16 junior stenographers, while only five of the 730 government primary schools in Goa have a full-time headmaster to oversee its functioning. Posts of three other headmasters has been left vacant and only where the student strength is ‘good enough’, one of the teachers is appointed as a head teacher at a meagre payment of Rs 200 per month in addition to their salary.
 
 Educationists says that most government schools, due to low enrolments, are not provided administrative staff and teachers have to multitask. 
 
 In absence of head teacher, they have to respond to correspondence, manage the overall affairs of the school, teach and act as peon, clerk and head teacher.
 
