BHUBANESWAR: Fear of   in Karlapat wildlife sanctuary in   district has forced the forest personnel to shun night duties in the sanctuary. 

 The tourist spot at Jakham, which is located close to the core area of the sanctuary, has a watch tower for the forest personnel to monitor trespassers, smugglers and poachers, but the personnel vacate it before sunset. 
 
 They shift to the entry gate of the sanctuary, located about 10 km from Jakham, and spend the night there. 
 
 In March, Maoists kidnapped four persons from Karlapat village and killed one of them after keeping them in captivity for three days. The other three were freed. The Maoists of Bansadhara-Ghumsura and   division had claimed responsibility for abduction and murder of the villager, who they alleged was a police informer.
 
 The renovation of the tourist rest shed following the incident has also been hit. "We know about the Maoist movement in the sanctuary. The pace of renovation work of the rest shed has been slow after the incident. However, since we have been doing development works by taking the villagers into confidence, we don't think Maoists will disrupt it," said divisional forest officer (Kalahandi, south division) Viswanath Neelannavar.
 
 Sources said in 2015 the Maoists had set ablaze construction machineries of a contractor near Jakham. The machineries were kept to complete the construction of a bridge. 
 
 The Karlapat sanctuary, located to the south of the district has come under Maoist attack since the past five years. Since then the rebels have been trying to motivate the villagers by purchasing goats, vegetables and grocery items from them by paying double the market price for these commodities.
 
 The villagers, who rear goats and take them to the nearby weekly market to sell them, get Rs 2,000 to Rs 3,000 a goat. But Maoists offer them Rs 6,000 for the same goat.
 
  "Since Karlapat has dense forest and a contigous forest cover with neighbouring Rayagada and Koraput districts, the Maoists have the advantage of moving to safety after committing a crime," said a senior police officer of the district adding it has been a challenge for the forest and police department to work despite their presence. 
 
