GHAZIABAD: A five-year-old girl was allegedly raped and killed in Kanawani’s Mohidinpur area in   on Friday night. Her body was found later in an under-construction building, nearly300 metres from her house.

 The victim, daughter of a priest, went missing on Friday afternoon following which a complaint was lodged with Indirapuram police station. However, her body was found in the night.
 
 The child’s body bore injury marks and the police said the postmortem report showed that the girl had been raped and strangled. Afroz, a 19-year-old mason and a resident of the same locality, is suspected to have committed the crime. He has been missing since the day the child went missing. The crime soon acquired a communal hue when residents began protesting and a heavy police force was deployed.
 
 The victim’s father said, “I had gone out for some work when I got a call from my wife in the afternoon saying that our daughter has been missing since morning. I rushed home and by that time our relatives and neighbours had already started looking for her. Even by evening there was no trace of her. So we lodged a missing complaint with the police.”
 
 The search went on and around 10pm, the body of the girl was found on the first floor of an under-construction building. “There were blood stains on her body and her clothes were torn,” said her father.
 
 The girl’s mother told TOI, “I suspected Afroz from the very beginning because he was the last person to be seen with my daughter as he had come to our house to have a glass of water and she had served him water.”
 
 She said, “He was also a part of the search party. But when I confronted him and told him that I had last seen her with him, he panicked and has been missing ever since.”
 
 Their neighbour, Dharmender, said, “The accused bought some juice and wafers from a shop and lured the girl into the building.”
 
 Hundreds of people gathered near the priest’s house and demanded the arrest of the accused. Deepak Kumar, SSP,  , said, “The father and brother of the accused live nearby and we feared that they might be attacked. Hence, we have deployed a heavy police contingent in the area and ordered senior personnel to camp in the area to prevent any untoward incident.”
 
 Kumar said, “I have suspended  , chowki in-charge of Kanawani, who failed to handle the communal tension triggered by the crime, and have detained Afroz’s father and brother for questioning.”
 
