THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The   is not known to have   to customers in most of the complaints.

 Lack of an independent authority to address the grievances of borrowers is a major reason that allow fleecing of customers by banking institutions in one way or the other. “In a majority of cases pertaining to the delay in handing over apartments to customers, there is stark violation of the tripartite agreement among the builder-bank and the customer. In most cases, it is found that the banks credit the entire loan amount in the account of the builders, much before the builder completes the construction work as per the conditions in the tripartite agreement.The banking ombudsman is not known to have rendered justice to customers, so far, in most of the complaints,'' said S Reghukumar, one of the leading advocates specialising in consumer rights related cases in the state.
 
 According to him, most borrowers fail to note that their banks have violated the tripartite agreement, according to which they are supposed to release the loan amount in a phased manner. “If the bank managers stick to the conditions in the agreement, the financial loss and burden on consumers would be much less. But since many bank managers release the full loan amount in advance to builders, the customers are often forced to pay EMI for the entire amount for the flat which is not even constructed fully , '' he said. e said.
 
 It's not just the unholy nexus between a good number of bank officials and builders that cause harm to genuine custom ers. The lack of necessary training to new recruits, shortage of staff and the laxity on the part of cleri cal staff in many bank branches are reasons that lead to the bitter experience of consumers.
 
 In the current situation, the only thing a consumer can do is to ensure the   on time. If there is even a slight lapse, the impact of the same on the consumer would be huge. “There is no mechanism that ensure the speedy delivery of justice to consumers duped by banks. Since the conditions of the banks and their explanations to the consumers are drafted in highly ambiguous language, even courts take too much time in delivering justice on time,'' said A  , general secretary , consumer vigilance centre.
 
 According to a newly recruited manager of a   in the capital city , many banks do not provide necessary training to their employees. “I was given training for six months after I joined the service. Many of us learned the work on our own or with the help of colleagues. Even a small mistake by the staff would cost the customer dearly . In several such cases, the mistakes go unnoticed unless such acts cause financial loss to the bank,'' he said.
 
