* “Zyada ooncha mat ud, kat jayega” (Don’t soar too high, you’ll fall flat), the Modi head mounted on a character from the film delivers a cold warning. 

 * The retort from the character with   head: “Agar katne ka dar hota na, to patang nahi chadhata, phirki pakadta” (Had I been scared, I wouldn’t be flying kites…) 
 
 LUCKNOW: A creative brain here has essayed a peppy 2.45-minute spoof on Shah Rukh Khan’s hit, ‘Raees’, to underline the point that   is the SP’s new star attraction.
 
 Animator Faizan Siddiqui’s clip smartly takes the film’s trailer and morphs   and Akhilesh Yadav into the characters. The UP CM’s face superimposed on SRK’s torso matches Modi word for word, the background score adding to the surround sound of their duel. Faizan’s creation adds a dash of colour and merriment into the campaign and has received more than 2.5 lakh hits across social media platforms since its Saturday release. In one hurried shot, Rahul Gandhi’s head is morphed on to SRK’s, but it’s just a passing shot.
 
 It opens with Akhilesh delivering these punchy lines: “Ammi jaan kehti thi koi dhanda chhota nahin hota, aur dhandhe se bada koi dharm nahi hota” (Mother would say no work is small and there’s no religion bigger than work). Modi breaks in: “Jisko tu dhandha bolta hai na woh crime hai …” (What you call work is crime…). He weighs in with: “Isko bandh kar de warna saans lena mushkil kar doonga” (Stop, else I’ll make it difficult for you to breathe.)
 
 Cut to the next visual — a grab from a news show. Akhilesh stings Modi: “Meri saans to rok loge…lekin is hawa ko kaise rokoge” (My breath you can stop, but how will you stop the big wave...) The repartee is accompanied by insertions of supporters carrying posters rooting for the SP chief and snapshots of the mega Rahul-Akhilesh show announcing their alliance.
 
 Titled ‘Akhilesh Yadav, in and as Raees’, the viral   also encapsulates the Samajwadi Pari-War thus: Bemused Akhilesh faces dad Mulayam’s reprimand for failing to rein in corrupt ministers, the CM being challenged by uncle Shivpal, whose frame is morphs into that of the dogged police officer’s from the film. And he whispers into Mulayam’s ears conspiratorially: “Aap hum ko kaheen bhi transfer kar do…main   ko nahin chhodunga” (Transfer me anywhere, but I won’t spare Raees). The message: Shiv Pal isn’t letting go of his clout so easily. He’ll snap at Akhilesh’s heels.
 
 Dimple Yadav, in a cameo, emerges in an all-new colour. She isn’t the coy, filmy bahu, but tough talking, a personality who has a say. Her makeover is captured in two words: ‘battery saala’. 
 
 The video ends with perhaps the most talked about dialogue of the film where Shahrukh Khan says: "Baniye Ka Dimaag, Miyan Bhai Ki Daring" and portraits of Ram Gopal Yadav and SP's Muslim face Azam Khan pop up on the screen. The final shot on the screen ends with a ‘fading-in’ profile shot of Akhilesh with Shah Rukh Khan's voice over “Aa Raha Hoon”. The usual “The End” caption is replaced by “Raees is available...March 17th, 2017,” hinting at the probable date on which the next chief minister of UP is likely to be sworn in. 
 
  “Barring the visual theme, there’s nothing political about it,” says Faizan. “I’ve been following the SP and was watching Raees, when I realised that the film’s dialogues could be used for a clip of political relevance,” he says.
 
 The video started as a YouTube upload and a post on Faizan’s   page on Saturday. The SP media cell has liked it, so has the Akhilesh Yadav Fans’ Club.
 
 
