 is no stranger among dog lovers in the city. The lady, who runs a shelter for abandoned and rescued dogs at Selvapuram, Veerapandi Panchayat in the outskirts of the city, is fondly known as the dog lady of Coimbatore. Geetha Rani takes care of around 400 dogs at her shelter for stray, abused, abandoned dogs. And now, a city-based filmmaker has captured her life in a documentary titled  . The 45-minute documentary delves into the trials and tribulations of Geetha Rani in bringing up the dogs.

 “We had earlier made a short film on Geetha Rani and her shelter titled  , which won accolades at the film festival circuit. Though the film got a lot of recognition, her work didn’t get its due. Hence, we decide to capture her efforts toward animal welfare in a documentary,” says filmmaker TR Vijay Anand. He adds, “When we shot Gnamali, she had only around 250 dogs. But now the number has increased to around 400 and a bigger space is required to take care of them. Hence, the title Kaani Nilam Vendum.” The documenatry was recently launched in the city.
 
 The protagonist of the documentary, Geetha Rani tells CT, “It’s been 12 years I have been running the shelter and the number of dogs being left at the center is only increasing every year. We give away some of these dogs for adoption, but majority of the female pups stay at the shelter. My one-acre shelter is a rented property and hence, I have been approaching government officials to provide me a piece of land where I can take care of the rescued animals.”
 
 Geetha Rani has a small team that manages the shelter. “’Right from rescuing a dog, to feeding, vaccinating and sterilizing them, we manage our affairs on our own. I shell out from my own pocket and savings to take care of the animals. As a child, I yearned for love from my family and friends, and it was the dogs that came to my support. I grew fond of them and years later, I still share the same bond with them. Dogs are indeed man’s best friend,” says the animal rescuer.
 
