Ranchi: Chief minister   on Monday said the   has deteriorated in the state over the years as students do not form a vote bank of politicians. "If we want to change the state, we will have to change the education system. It is after 14 years that efforts are being made to fill teachers' vacancies. Over 18,000 teachers have been recruited already and the process is ongoing. We are also working towards providing better   in  ," the   said.

 Speaking at the concluding ceremony of the   on Monday, where he was the chief guest, Das said, “All the schools will be provided with tabs in the academic year 2017-18 so that teachers can be technically advanced. Also, electricity will reach all 40,000 government schools in the next two years.” 
 
 The CM also informed that benches and desks would be provided to all schools before April. Focusing on providing quality education, he said, "Teachers will be relieved from all non-academic work. To provide quality education to students of government schools, teachers will be provided training at national and international level for which government will sign MoUs (Memorandum of Understanding) with various agencies."
 
 A number of programmes were organised during the four day Kasturba Sangam and Baal Samagam here, where students of government schools were allowed to showcase their talent. The CM announced an appreciation prize of Rs 25,000 for 7-year-old Ruchi Kumar, who sang the National Anthem on stage. Ruchi is a student of Class I in Middle School Pandra, Ranchi.
 
 An amount of Rs 1 lakh was allotted to each of the eight Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalayas, whose students participated in the band display. An additional award of Rs 1 lakh was announced for each of the four cultural activity groups which performed various programmes including Ganesh Vandana, Rajasthani folk dance, Assam’s Bihu dance and a programme on the Centre’s Beti Bachao Beti Padhao programme.
 
  School education and literacy department secretary Aradhana Patnaik said, “This is the third year of the programme. Till now, we focused mostly on extra-curricular activities in these programmes but from next year, we will include academic competitions too.”
 
 Now that the best performing students from every district have been identified, the secretary added, the department will direct the district level officers to form a sports and cultural team and include these students. “These teams would then be sent to participate in the national level programmes,” Patnaik said.
 
 
