A spacious room sans anything fancy, filled with light and a performing artiste. 

 Eric Van Leishout, the contemporary Dutch artiste, walks around this room kneeling down, enacting a goat. When he has enough people as audience, they too join him, and the room becomes a ‘goat shed,’ as he calls it. The bleats of ‘goats’ fill the air and both the performer and the audience de-stress in the process, letting themselves go, embracing the innocent and amicable little animal.
 
 Why is the performance inside a vacant room? The artiste says, “I find the personality of a goat to be very interesting. They appear delicate and shy, but they are known to have a strong thinking capacity. Goats might always be in a group, but a single goat can have its own sense of space too. As I perform as one in this art studio, I observe the audience to learn how each one among the audience reacts in depth and being on the goat mode, I think deeply about the whys and hows of it too.”
 
 He also says that as the room is mostly empty with just the artiste in it, the visitors often feel insecure. “Adding to that is my foreign white male persona and loud voice. I have often felt that Indians are soft-spoken and shy. But in a conversation, they open up more. I often discuss women’s issues and about the art scene in India in the goat shed. My final purpose is to make a film about all these reactions and observations,” Eric says.
 
 The artist, who studied at the Academy of Art and design in Hertogenbosch and De Ateliers in the Netherlands has been to Biennales across the world, to hold both solo and group exhibitions. He is generally renowned for his films and multi-media installations with a political or satirical overtone, though what he has been showcasing at   is completely different. “I want to make a film about the life of women in India and I’m interacting with my audience to learn about the same. Women tell me that they have a very tough life in this country. But when they step in here, this is a free country in which they can share their issues with me openly. That’s what I’m doing at the goat shed, at the moment,” he signs off. 
 
 
