Day 34 on Bigg Boss Tamil lacked the usual hyped-drama as the housemates largely kept to themselves.   was seen talking to a frog in the morning, which got stuck inside one of the rooms outside.   removed the frog from there and left it outside. 

 Housemates were seen gossiping about Julie saying how she was making the most of playing the girl on the red carpet. They say that Julie is trying to create unwanted sympathy by being glum in the house. Julie comes out of the confession room and says that the Bigg Boss had asked her to rest as her task wasn’t over yet. Julie continues to use the red carpet. While sitting in the living room, she calls Arav and asks him to spread the red carpet for him as she has to use the rest room. Arav refuses to get up. Meanwhile, Ganesh, who enters the room, asks Oviya to do the needful. Oviya says that unless Julie calls out her name, she won’t do it. Julie finally calls Oviya and she spreads the red carpet for her. 
 
 
  Later, Bigg Boss asks the housemates to split themselves into two groups and play a scene from Kamal Haasan’s Bigg Boss. While Shakthi, Gayathri, Julie and Arav are in one team; Ganesh, Oviya, Vaiyapuri and   are in the other.   plays the host.   begins the show with both groups enacting the show. After they wrap up the performances, he asks the housemates about their experience putting up the show. He asks Julie, in particular, what she learnt from the show. Julie says that she shouldn’t lie like the character in the scene did. Others reveal that they were scared to act in front of Kamal Haasan. 
 
 Kamal, then asks Julie, is she wanted the 5- second clip to the played again as she has been asking for it. She says ‘no’. Kamal Haasan, then clarifies that unlike what the housemates thought, there was no need for Kamal or the channel to take sides and show only certain sides of each housemate. He says that the camera is only a medium. He then asks Raiza why she had been sulking for the last two days and she says that she didn’t like luxury budget cycling task. And, she added that she didn’t realise she had hurt Snehan during the conversation about the same. She apologizes for the same.
 
 The attention then shifts to Oviya and Kamal reprimands her pulling the carpet aggressively while Julie was on it. Ganesh explains that he had already warned Oviya, but, she didn’t listen. Oviya says she did that only in jest and didn’t mean to cause any physical injury to Julie. She tells Kamal Haasan than Julie never apologizes from the heart and only puts up an act in front of the camera. She adds that she is the next Nayanthara. However, when Kamal Haasan says that Oviya should try making up with Julie, she agrees. Julie and Oviya hug each other. 
 
 
  Later, the contestants nominated for elimination are asked whom do they voted against them. Oviya says that apart from Arav and Vaiyapuri, others would ha ve voted her name. Raiza says that she is more than happy to go home as she was feeling homesick. The show ends with Kamal asking the housemates to save one person out of the four nominated for elimination.
  
 
