In a free wheeling chat, the lead pair of the reincarnation-themed love saga,   spoke to Hyderabad Times about an array topics ranging from rebirth, onscreen nudity, film censorship, their alleged link-up and more. Excerpts: 

 
 
  I never believed in rebirth. All the movies on the subject that I have watched couldn’t impress me either. It so happened that I had just finished shooting for Dibakar’s (Banerjee)   and was chilling in Goa when I first read the script for Raabta. It was so engaging and despite not believing on the very concept upon which the movie is based, I was glued to it. 
 
  Well, for me the idea of playing two different characters in two completely diverse time periods was exciting. 
 I play an introverted yet independent young girl, Saira who owns a chocolate shop in Budapest. She isn’t your typical girl-next-door, there are layers to her and that’s what appealed to me. But there is something off about her; there is a certain abruptness in her behaviour. Saira gets nightmares and is hydrophobic but doesn’t know why; there are more questions in her head than answers. I hope people will like it. 
 
 
 
  Dude. That’s just boring pre-release gossip. I think we must all learn to look beyond it. 
 
  There is no truth behind these link-ups. I’m tired of clearing the air about it.
 
 
 
  I think Dinesh was very courageous in picking a concept, which, if you ask me, is a little dicey for a first time director. When you are making your first film and you are already a successful producer, you have a reputation to save and that’s why I think Dinesh has done a very gutsy thing. He was so thorough with the script that he knew exactly what he wanted from every technician, actor and everybody working on the project. The best part is that Dinesh is a team player and he trust you fully. 
 
  Dinesh is purely an emotional director. For instance, if he feels a take is adhering to his imagery, he won’t go for a retake. But if it doesn’t, he will make you do it again and again no matter what you think until he is satisfied. And yes, he is not afraid of trying something new.
 
 
 
  Well, Everybody thought it was outlandish to think wormholes exist, but they still loved Christopher Nolan’s Interstellar (which was based on wormholes). Everybody thought it is outlandish to think that animals communicate with each other, but Jungle Book showed us how. I think when it comes to cinema, being outlandish is not a problem but being not convincing is. And Rajkumar excelled in it. The way he played the character, I think he could have pulled off a 624-year-old’s role.
 Sushant, pictures of you doing the Full Monty for your upcoming film Drive have become the talk of the nation. Did you really go completely naked in front of the camera? 
 (Laughs) Well, I didn’t exactly go the full, full monty, so to speak of. You will have to watch the film to find that out for yourself.
 
 
 
 The healthiest way to show nudity in a film is to show it the way it is. One shouldn’t use metaphors until and unless it’s the filmmaker’s intention to put it in a context and make it rhetorical. The censor board should not try to tell us what to say and what to do just because it thinks that everyone watching the film is so naive that they will get influenced by its content. Every opinion is subjective — what is right for you may not be the same for me. As a board all you need to do is certify the film and leave the decision of watching it to the audience. Art cannot survive in such an atmosphere.
 
  I do understand that certain kind of content might not be appropriate to be watched by people under certain age, but how will you stop those who want to. After all everything today is available on the Internet.
 
  If I have the right to vote and choose my government when I am 18, why do they think we don’t have the maturity to choose what to watch and what not to. This is completely ridiculous.
 
 
 
 A lot of people can multi-task and it’s good, but having said that only those who know they are good should sing and shouldn’t rely on auto tune to make them sound enchanting. I’d just say, ‘If you know you are a good singer then go for it; it doesn’t matter if you are a cricketer or an actor.
 
 Barring two or three actors, whom everybody knows, many of us need to first work on honing our acting skills first before opting to playback or sing. And that includes me too. First get your acting sorted and then do whatever you want to. You can’t fool people like this.
 
 
 
