NEW DELHI: Looking to mount pressure on Delhi CM  , BJP said on Tuesday his government’s preparedness to pay a fat fee to lawyer   in a private defamation case amounts to plundering of public money and said the saffron party will oppose it tooth and nail. 

 Flanked by Delhi leader  , HRD Minister Prakash Javadekar held a press conference in which he said it was a personal case involving Kejriwal and the government had no role in it. Hence, the government treasury should not be used to pay fees running into crores to Jethmalani. 
 
 "The process to pay from the government is nothing less than a scam, which will be opposed tooth and nail. The party will explore all options to thwart this bid to pay," said Javadekar. 
 
 He said there is no government involvement at any stage in the case raising questions over the state treasury. "Case is personally against Kejriwal and he should pay from his own pocket," Javadekar said. 
 
 Drawing a contrast, the minister said the complainant in the case,   Arun Jaitley, had paid Rs 10-lakh from own pocket as stamp fee while filing the defamation case against Kejriwal. "Jaitley ji has been making all the payments from own pocket where is the point of involving government?" Javadekar questioned. 
 
 The minister said Kejriwal has some seven similar cases pending against him. "Does that mean that he will pay around Rs 100 crore from people's fund to fight his private battles after making reckless allegations?” Javadekar asked. 
 
 The saffron party has decided to make the fee demand a major poll issue in the MCD polls to highlight what it says is the double standard between Kejriwal’s words and deeds. "We have already lodged a complaint with the LG and BJP will be on the streets against the move," said Vijender Gupta. 
 
 Kejriwal is fighting a high-powered legal battle with Jaitley, who has sued him for civil and criminal defamation. Kejriwal's counsel, Ram Jethmalani, has raised a bill of Rs 3.42 crore for his services so far though the lawyer has now said he could waive off the fees if his client cannot pay.
 
