KOCHI: Concerned over the incident at the Regional   Centre (RCC), where a child being treated for blood cancer tested positive for Human Immunodeficiency Virus after a blood transfusion, experts have called for introduction of Nucleic Acid Testing (NAT), which can detect HIV ,   and C, in at least one government facility in each zone in the state.

 Neighbouring Karnataka has set up a NAT lab where samples from all government hospitals are collected and rewports are emailed 247. The turn-around time from collection to reporting is less than a day .
 
 “It is disheartening to hear that hospitals like the RCC don't have NAT facility, which can detect viruses like HIV and various Hepatitis strains in its window period, said Dr Abraham Varghese, IMA blood bank officer, Kochi. IMA Kochi and a couple of private super-speciality hospitals in the state have installed NAT machines.
 
 NAT is advisable as conventional enzymelinked immunosorbent assay (Elisa) cannot detect very early stages of infection of HIV , Hepatitis B and C, which have a `window period'.
 
 “The window period for HIV is usually between three weeks and three months. NAT is comparatively safe since it can reduce the window period to seven weeks,“ said Dr M Narayanan, paediatrician and president, IMA Kochi.
 
 IMA Kochi officials said that all the 13,000 blood samples in their blood bank were found safe in ELISA tests done in past five years. “But ever since we introduced the NAT testing facility , 12 blood samples were found infected with viruses like HIV and Hepatitis B, C in window period,“ said Dr Sunil Mathai, secretary of IMA blood bank, Kochi. Office bearers of the Kerala Blood Donors  , with more than one lakh donors and 3,000 direct members, say that some hospitals threaten patients if they don't bring blood donors. This leads to paid blood donations which could be unsafe. “Voluntary blood donation is the key to safe blood transfusion. At least a few government institutions across the state should have hitech testing facility,“ said  , joint secretary .
 
 “There have been several instances when bystanders have called and offered to payall we had to do is to ensure blood donors. But we don't do it.We have a dedicated network of highly motivated individuals offering donation voluntarily ,“ Raj said.
 
 Unnikrishnan Panicker, former blood safety officer, Kerala, said attempts should be made to network all blood donors under the Kerala Blood Transfusion Council ( ). He said that a local area network and a state network can be created and any person volunteering for blood donation should be given a card, the credentials of which can be checked in any facility across the state.“Since the state has rules in place for blood donation, voluntary blood donation can become the accepted system,“ Panicker said.
 
 “We had proposed a model adopted by Karna taka government which introduced the centralised facility. We could replicate a similar system with one centre each at government medical colleges in Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode and at the regional blood transfusion centre in Aluva. These centres could function as nodal points for checking blood safety,“ said Dr N Vijayakumar, medical officer in-charge.
 
 However, state government officials say need of the hour is to spread the message of voluntary donation among the population from 18 years to 65 years. “This will not just ensure safety but also keep donors healthy as their blood profile will be checked frequently .As of now only 60-65% of the blood donated comes from voluntary donors. The rest are from replacements. The state needs about 4-5 lakh units of blood annually,“ said Dr R Ramesh, project director, Kerala state AIDS control society (KSACS).
 
