NEW DELHI: Police have registered an FIR under sections of abetment to suicide (306 IPC) and SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act on a complaint by family members of a   who allegedly killed himself on Monday.

 The FIR stated that preliminary inquiry indicated that the student, J Muthukrishnan, committed suicide due to “caste-based harassment”. In the complaint, Muthukrishnan’s father, Jeevanandam, alleged that he had come to know from his son’s friends that he was being subjected to constant caste-based harassment and discrimination at JNU.
 
 The postmortem was conducted by a five-member team on Wednesday and the whole process was videographed. Initial reports suggested death due to asphyxiation.
 
 Earlier in the day, the Centre had directed police to probe all aspects related to the suicide, including whether the case should invoke provisions of the SC/ST Act as well as abetment to suicide. According to preliminary findings, no injuries were found on the body. An internal examination of the stomach’s content found “no specific abnormal smell”.
 
 “Prima facie, the probe reveals the incident to be a case of suicide by hanging.” However, the circumstances in which the student committed suicide was a matter of investigation, the report added.
 
 MPs from Tamil Nadu who had reached the mortuary later lodged their protest with Delhi Police as the body was taken away from AIIMS allegedly without informing students who were waiting outside.
 
 Family members said that to get admission to JNU, Muthukrishnan had taken up odd jobs in Salem. He had enrolled at Hyderabad Central University and, in July 2016, managed to get through after several attempts. “My son planned to pursue a career in civil services,” said the father in his complaint. “My son was not diagnosed with any mental illness and was not under any medication for depression,” Jeevanandam said. “He was social enough; it is unlikely that he would commit suicide.” 
 
 Friends and roommates claimed Muthukrishnan was in financial difficulty and had to borrow money from time to time, which he usually returned. A friend said he had complained of feeling “alienated”. 
 
