NEW DELHI: The government on Tuesday proposed to ban all cash transactions above Rs 2 lakh, instead of Rs 3 lakh announced in the budget, and said   would be mandatory for filing tax returns and getting a permanent account number (PAN) as it sought fresh checks on black money.

 The proposals were part of the 44 amendments to the Finance Bill moved by finance minister   in Lok Sabha. The large number of changes sought by the government attracted criticism from the opposition benches with some calling it unprecedented.
 
 Jaitley has proposed amendments to the Companies Act, mandating disclosure of election-related donations in company books besides making such donations compulsorily by cheque, bank draft or through electronic means. The step was part of reforms announced in the budget to make election funding more transparent. 
 
 The move to reduce the   to Rs 2 lakh was announced as the government was of the view that the earlier cap was too high. “The Rs 3 lakh ceiling was high given the level of per capita income in India when there are developed countries which restrict cash transactions above $100,” said a government officer explaining the rationale for reducing the ceiling. 
 
 “The penalty for violating this is a fine equivalent to the amount of transaction,” revenue secretary Hasmukh Adhia tweeted. Elaborating on the proposal, he said it would be illegal to undertake cash transactions above Rs 2 lakh.
 
 Similarly, officers said the move to make Aadhaar mandatory for tax returns was necessitated as the income tax department had come across instances of individuals having multiple PAN and using them to open several bank accounts. This also helped them evade taxes. With Aadhaar made mandatory, the government is hoping to track returns better and act against those misusing the provisions. The use of Aadhaar has been mandated from July 1.
 
 The raft of amendments proposed by the finance minister was opposed by the RSP, Trinamool Congress and Biju Janata Dal which accused the government of incorporating non-tax proposals in the Finance Bill to do away with the need to seek Rajya Sabha’s approval. It termed amendments to laws governing sectoral tribunals as legislating through the “back door”. 
 
 Jaitley, however, staunchly defended the move, arguing that they were “incidental provisions” to the Finance Bill and were linked to budget announcements such as merger of tribunals and putting in place uniform service conditions. 
 
 
