 Few months back, I broke up with my   who was a divorcee and 4 years elder to me. Being more experienced, she always had an upper hand over me. We broke up thrice in one year of courtship and have finally arrived at a stage where we are bidding our final goodbyes. What's worse is the fact that the our last breakup didn't even have any substantial reason. I tried to give some buffer time to our relationship, hoping things would settle between us. Sadly, it never happened. Meanwhile, my parents arranged for a meeting with a girl. I agreed to marry her because my family liked her. In fact, I also consulted my ex before going ahead. Now, it's getting too complicated for me to pull myself away from one side and push to the other. Although, the girl is pretty and sweet and has developed a liking for me, I am still waiting to develop feelings for her. Moreover, the social constructs in Indian society don't leave you with much autonomy to say 'no' once your family has officially said 'yes' for a 'rishta'. Now with this background, I am just hoping in good faith that things turn up well in this new relationship. Your expert advice is deeply solicited. – 
 
 
  
  
  
  Congratulations on your engagement. It seems that you are ready to get married to this person suggested and selected (also with your consent) by your parents. In my opinion, you have put yourself in a position where "others make the decision for you".
  
  About your on and off relationship, if in the limited period of being together you have been through three breakups, it's best to let go of the relationship. Also, kindly refrain from asking her about what you should be doing in your life. Move on.
  
  Regarding the present scenario of being engaged to this person, if you feel you are hurrying into this new relationship, please communicate to your parents that you would like to take some time to rethink. It's about time that you take your own decisions. All the best.
  
  
 
 
 
  
  Want expert advice for your relationship? Send us an email at expertadvice.toi@gmail.com
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
