MUMBAI: Senior railway officials in Mumbai are under the radar as the   (PAC) of   has recommended an inquiry by the BI into advertisement contracts allotted on first come first basis (FCFB). 

 Based on the findings of the Comptroller and Auditor General's report of 2013 on 'Commercial Publicity in  ', the PAC focused on the performance of zonal railways in exploiting the potential of advertising media on stations, trains and level crossings to enhance earnings.
 
 The committee noted, "There were irregularities in awarding contracts of advertisement on FCFB, which was prevalent in CR and WR's Mumbai divisions for the last 25-30 years. There was no clarity on identification of contracted site, about innovative ideas for selection of new sites and displays of advertisement."
 
 The committee noted that there was no transparency in awarding of contracts. Following a complaint by MP Kirit Somaiya in July 2014, CR's vigilance department carried out an investigation. Following consultation, the   (CVC) advised action against seven officials, cut in pension of two officials and administrative action against one.
 
 As regards the role of other officials, a report has been received from CR and the same is under consideration of a competent authority. The matter will be consulted with the CVC and action will be initiated.
 
 The committee noted, "It is established that the fraud in award of contract in advertisements has been detected by the CVC and action against the officials taken. The committee, therefore, desires that contracts allotted on the basis of FCFB should be terminated with immediate effect. CBI should be ordered to conduct inquiry."
 
 The committee said that it was of the view that unless and until exemplary punishments are awarded to corrupt officials from top to bottom, irregularities in commercial publicity in Indian Railways cannot be rooted out. The committee exhort the Indian Railways to introduce awards of excellence to the best performing zones so as to encourage them and set an example.
 
 
