CHENNAI: Ahead of the   in July, the   is likely to go all out to garner the support of  , even as the DMK has planned an opposition unity meet on M  's 94th birthday in June, to discuss the issue. Political observers say that BJP is assured of support from 
  .

 The value of each elected TN MLA 's votes is 176 and it is 708 for all elected members of the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha. 
 
 The AIADMK has 134 MLAs — chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami commands the loyalty of 122 MLAs, while the rival O Panneerselvam faction has support of 12 MLAs. 
 
 A majority of the 50 AIADMK MPs back the CM. The DMK and its allies have 97 MLAs, and four MPs while Left parties have one MP each. 
 
 The BJP has been wooing both factions. In the recent past, the Centre sanctioned certain long-pending demands of the state to keep the EPS camp happy. 
 
 Political commentator Gnani Sankaran says that both AIADMK factions “will support the BJP“.
 
 Meanwhile, DMK working president M K Stalin and Rajya Sabha MP Kanimozhi have invited opposition leaders from across the country, including Congress president Sonia Gandhi, to come together on June 3, a meeting that will coincide with their 
  . 
 
 In an unexpected development, the BJP's national president Amit Shah put off his scheduled three day visit to   beginning May 10.
 
 BJP national secretary H Raja said there was nothing wrong if his party sought the support of AIADMK. 
 
 Though he did not comment on whether the BJP has already reached out to the AIADMK, Raja said they would seek the support of “everybody“. 
 
 The BJP is hopeful that AIADMK would back its candidate, given the fact that opposition DMK will back the Congress candidate. 
 
 CM Palaniswami is believed to have 
  while the Panneerselvam faction too has cordial relations with BJP leaders. 
 
 BJP state president Tamilisai Soundararajan said the issue will be “handled by the party's Central leadership“. Former minister K Pandiarajan, from the Panneerselvam faction said, “We have close to 0.95 % vote share (for the Presidential poll), while overall, for the AIADMK it is 5.72%. We will respond when they approach us. We will consider the credentials of the candidate,“ he said.
 
 
 
 
