They recharge the groundwater table, act as sponges during floods, and nurture unique flora and fauna. Marshlands are vanguards of ecology, yet they are encroached upon. These sensitive ecosystems are under threat, especially from real estate developers near growing cities.

 Perceiving the danger the disappearance of marshlands would bring, the   government recently issued an order that stated that no documents relating to marshlands in the state would be registered. The state government, however, is yet to map and identify these eco-sensitive areas and doesn’t have a single authority to monitor them, which environmental experts say are concerns that may make implementation of the order difficult.
 
 "Despite the intention to preserve marshlands, the state seems ill-prepared to make any immediate difference on the ground. TN has 44 freshwater marshlands and 42 saltmarshes. The elaborate work of mapping these spots has to begin with teams at the district level. The presence of these marshlands has been identified as part of creating a national inventory and assessment of wetlands," said Jayashree Vencatesan, founder of Care Earth, a Chennai-based biodiversity research organisation. Though the national survey provides the numbers, no measures have been taken to protect these tracts of land. "None of the marshlands in the state have been mapped and accorded protection status. Only those existing in forest areas such as Vedaranyam are protected," said S Balaji, former principal chief conservator of forests (research and education).
 
 The way forward is a clear demarcation of territories. "Mapping marshlands will make the job of the registration department easier. Once they are demarcated, marshlands can be declared as no-entry zones and steps will be taken to avoid encroachments on them," Balaji said. 
 
 The state government’s decision to ban registration of marshlands came after the Madras high court in a 2016 ruling prohibited constructions of any kind on the Pallikaranai  . Though the area was declared a reserved land in 2007, putting an end to large-scale encroachment by software firms and apartment complexes, illegal dumping of waste and sewage on the land continues till today, say conservationists. 
 
 In TN there is a blanket ban on registration of property on waterbodies, grant of ‘patta’ or regularisation of encroachments over waterbodies that have irreversibly dried up. The courts, in the past, have emphasised that the government should revive the waterbodies. 
 
 But to implement the present government order the problem is not just a lack of machinery to identify and study the marshlands, but also the absence of a single authority to monitor them. "These marshlands are under various government departments. So the power to manage them is vested with a variety of people. Ideally, all the marshlands should be brought under a single body like the state wetland authority," said Balaji.
 
