HYDERABAD: Rise in temperature and poor attendance has taken a toll on the academic calendar, with many school managements foreseeing an early closure this year too. Last year, all schools, including those affiliated to CBSE, ICSE and   boards, had closed for summer holidays by April 16 due to the heat wave that swept through the state. 

 Attendance in a majority of schools have fallen after the annual exams. "Attendance in all schools is hardly 40-50%. The whole purpose of starting the academic calendar early is lost as a majority of students go out for vacations with their families after the exams get over," said Srinivas Reddy, president of Telangana Recognised School Managements Association. Attendance is much lower in rural areas and government schools, sources said.
 
 But the biggest hurdle seems to be the sweltering heat. The temperature across the state is hovering above 40 degree Celsius. While state-run schools are functioning only half-day, Kendriya Vidyalayas and a few CBSE schools continue to function till afternoon. "Despite the half-day schools, very few students turn up. We revise basic concepts as we know that we will have to repeat the syllabus once the school reopens in June," said B Rajitha, a teacher at a private school in Mehdipatnam. 
 
 Parents are worried about the health of their children. "Starting the new academic year soon after the annual exams is not right as it leaves children exhausted. The government must reschedule the academic calendar and break for summer vacations from mid-April," said Sangeetha Rao, a parent. 
 
 There is a growing demand among teachers and parents to start the academic year only in June, a proposal that has seen support from the members of the fee regulatory committee too. In the meeting on Tuesday, all stakeholders agreed that schools, irrespective of their board of affiliation, must break for summer vacations soon after the annual exams. 
 
 "Since there is no gap between two academic years, parents find it difficult to change schools. We have asked the committee to begin new academic sessions in June," said Ashish Naredi, executive member of Hyderabad School Parents' Association (HSPA). 
 
