Today is all about “Instant” gratification. Instant noodles, Instant Pasta, Instant Oatmeal. Admittedly,   are good for the health, but instant oatmeal is not, as they may have added sugar, flavorings and are generally high on sodium.
  It is highly processed and in the process losses most of its fiber.
    cause a slower release of sugar in the blood stream lowering the potential spike in blood sugar after meal.
  However, since fiber is almost non-existent in the instant oats, the carbohydrates are converted to sugar when digested and increase sugar levels in the bloodstream. 

 The best form of oats are the groats, the clean edible grain after the hull is removed. This is coarse and very often takes a long time to cook. Chopped groats cook more quickly. Crunchier than the instant oats, these are considered far better than the instant oatmeal. Softened when cooked, instant oats mainly comprise processed carbohydrates that digest quickly in the absence of fiber. Foods that digest quickly can cause a sudden increase in the blood sugar especially when eaten alone
  and therefore a strict no-no for diabetics. Loaded with dietary fiber, groats have a range of healthy cholesterol-lowering properties. The possible benefits of oats include lowering blood pressure, reducing the risk of coronary artery disease, lowering levels of cholesterol and reducing the risk of colorectal cancer
 . 
 
 Oats can be best had along with vegetables, fruits and other whole grains that contain complex carbohydrates full of fiber and nutrients. The fiber gives a feeling of fullness and satiety and the nutrients provide sustained energy. Mixing these with proteins and healthy fats can the healthy way to begin a day. Cow Milk or Soy Milk can be an excellent addition for fortifying oats with the necessary proteins. Almonds, or walnuts can provide the healthy fat.
  Oats are rich in various nutrients and is packed with minerals like iron, magnesium, phosphorous, copper, manganese, selenium in addition to healthy fat, carbohydrates, fiber and protein
 . 
 
 Savory or sweet, oats are a delight in any form. Let oats be the good word, today onward.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
