KOLKATA: There has been a   in success rate in the the   ( ) this year but those who managed to sail past have set sights on   or one of the  , just like the previous years. 

 “The total number of candidates who applied for GATE 2017 were 9,22,167. Just 1,29,149 candidates qualified in the exam,” said Govind Chakrapani, chairman of GATE 2017 committee from IIT-Roorkee – the organizing institute.
 
 Himadri Sekhar Bandyopadhyay, a Institute of Engineering and Management – Salt Lake student, has ranked 15 in computer science and engineering. “It’s a tough call between IISc-Bangalore and IIT-Bombay. I would prefer technological research more than academic research,” he added.
 
 Several students from aerospace engineering department in IIEST-Shibpur has bagged top positions in GATE this year. Institute director Ajay Kumar Roy said: “ I am delighted to see that our students have succeeded in the GATE exam. India is one of the few countries that have exhibited their potential in space science and technology. With successful completion of Chandrayan and Mangalayan, the country is second to none in design and development of indigenous, low-cost space borne system”
 
 Suryadeep Nath from the aerospace engineering department has ranked 11th. “I will do my PG from IISc-Bangalore. I didn’t expect such a result. This year, the cut-off in our subject has gone down considerably, so has the highest score,” he said.
 
 Anwesha Bhattacharyya, Suryadeep’s batchmate, has ranked fourth. “I will have to choose between IISc Bangalore and the IITs in Bombay or Kanpur. These are the best institutes that can make me achieve my dream of becoming a scientist,” said Anwesha, a resident of Srirampore.
 
 Saumik Kumar Dey, also from the same department, has ranked seventh in the aerospace engineering exam. “I haven’t decided yet but would want to join IISc Bangalore,” he said. 
 
 This year, GATE had 23 subjects. The highest number of candidates appeared in civil engineering, electronics and communication engineering, electrical engineering, computer science and IT engineering and mechanical engineering streams. Each had more than a lakh candidate.
 
 
