CHENNAI: Had it not been for the  's  , the   could have materialised four years ago. Instead, the corporation only last month completed the second trial on a project it conceived in 2012.Rather than making futile attempts to  , the corporation may have been able to raise the project's Rs 55 crore cost in a shorter period of time by issuing  , say experts.

 Dependency on state and central government grants for infrastructure projects and their maintenance has affected the quality of civic services provided to residents.According to the 14th  , the Greater Chennai Corporation will have to share the central government grant of Rs 505 crore for the year 2017-18 among 11 other municipal corporations in Tamil Nadu. To call this inadequate would be putting it mildly.
 
 While the central government has been encouraging urban local bodies to raise finances from non-traditional resources, the city corporation appears to be reluctant to explore the potential of municipal bonds, something that it last attempted in 2005. According to highly placed sources in the corporation, the civic body had in fact written back to the central government expressing its inability to raise funds via municipal bonds.“It is not that we won't issue the bonds. But even if we did, we won't be able to raise capital required to fund big infra projects,“ a source said.
 
 The source added that the local body's “situation concerning (our) liabilities“ is not too favourable and that it was one of the reasons why they were “not in a position“ to issue these bonds. However, commissioner and special officer, D Karthikeyan, denied this was the case, when TOI contacted him.
 
 TOI had reported last year that the corporation was in the process of getting its creditworthiness assessed by rating agency Crisil. This is mandatory due to the corporation's participation in the Smart Cities project. Karthikeyan said, “We are expecting to receive the rating by third week of March. Following this, we will definitely be issuing the (municipal) bonds.“
 
 The corporation is estimated to require over Rs 30,000 crore over the next decade for various infrastructure projects.The smart city project would consume around Rs 1,400 crore.Other projects like the Integrated Storm Water Drainage Rs 4,034 crore) and the many (` multi-level parking lots and elevated expressways planned will require significant funds which the central or state governments cannot pledge.
 
 According to A Shankar, a senior official at Jones Lang Lasalle, the corporation stands a better chance of raising revenue through municipal bonds than it did in 2005.Then chief engineer in the corporation A Swaminathan told TOI that the local body had to retract the bonds after it failed to find a purchaser in 2005. “The apprehensions of 10-15 years back may not hold water now. But if they (corporation officials) feel that the risk is higher with municipal bonds, they can explore revenue options through advertising,“ Shankar said.
 
