CHANDIGARH:   president   was on Wednesday named the party’s candidate for the Gurdaspur   bypoll scheduled for October 11. He will file his nomination papers on Friday. A statement by Janardhan Dwivedi, general secretary of All India Congress Committee (AICC), said that party president Sonia Gandhi has approved Jakhar’s name.

 Jakhar’s nomination was approved as chief minister Capt   too endorsed his name. This despite Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa rooting for his wife Charanjit Kaur’s nomination. “Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, on recommendation of Captain Amarinder, reposed faith in me and I am confident that we will be able to take up this challenge,” said Jakhar.
 
 Sources said after Jakhar met Sonia on Tuesday, she discussed his nomination with Rahul, who is on a visit to the US.
 
 Stakes are high for the bypoll as it is being touted as a “referendum” on the six-month old Amarinder-led Congress government. The Gurdaspur seat has traditionally voted for BJP since 1998, except in 2009 when Bajwa defeated Vinod Khanna.
 
 Son of former Union minister and Lok Sabha speaker Balram Jakhar, Sunil is an ex-MLA, who has represented Abohar assembly constituency thrice (2002-17). He is a prominent Hindu face of the party, who was Congress legislative party (CLP) leader in Punjab before he stepped down in 2016 ahead of the assembly elections. He took over as Punjab Congress president in April this year.
 
 The 63-year-old had unsuccessfully contested the 2014 Lok Sabha election from Ferozepur, finishing second with 4,56,512 votes. He had lost to Akali leader Sher Singh Ghubaya.
 
 Sources said when local Congress leaders from Gurdaspur first proposed his name earlier this month, Jakhar was reluctant to take the plunge but as the chorus for his nomination grew, he is believed to have given his consent. “Jakhar is an apt candidate for the Hindu-dominated constituency. Being a senior leader of the party, his candidature will also ensure that there is no factionalism in the party and the Congress leadership unitedly contests the election,” said a party leader.
 
 Jakhar will begin his campaign in Gurdaspur on Thursday and file the nomination papers on the last day on October 22.
 
