PATIALA: After  , the number of wards in   has increased from 50 to 60. However, the   and   who belong to Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) have been raising objections. The Patiala municipal corporation till now has received four such objections since it had notified the increase in the wards. 

 The local SAD members have alleged that the ruling Congress in the state had gone ahead with the delimitation by ignoring the norms. They alleged that this was done to help the local Congress leaders win upcoming elections of the municipal corporation (MC).
 
 “To favour their own men, the delimitation was carried out with votes of a number of residents shifted in those wards where Congress is hopeful of winning the elections. But for this, they had ignored all the norms and we are studying the matter thoroughly. We will raise objections as there are numerous errors. However, only 10 days have been given to raise objections. We have also sought the census of all wards under RTI Act to go through a comparative study and find out more violations,” said, Patiala mayor Amarinder Bazaz.
 
 However, the MC authorities claimed that everything was done in accordance with the laws and in presence of the councillors as well as the mayor during the process of delimitation. 
 
 There has been increased in women quota too from 33%to 50% this year. Out of a total 60 wards, eight wards have been reserved for scheduled caste (SC) category while two wards have been kept reserved for backward classes. It is learned that SAD councillors will also raise objection over two wards for backward classes where no seat has been reserved for women of backwards classes whereas in SC wards half of the seats are reserved for women.
 
 “In process of delimitation an equal representation was given to councillors of both the parties including Congress and SAD while Aam Aadmi Party as per norms cannot participate as it has no councillors,” said Patiala MC commissioner G S Khaira.
 
 Patiala SAD urban president Surjit Singh Kohli said, “The delimitation has been done without calling us or any other political parties for consent.”
 
