KOCHI: The students from   With Special Needs had an unforgettable day on the cruise ship Costa neoClassica that was docked at Kochi. 

 The entertainment crew was moved to tears by the innocent cheers and appreciation they received from the children on Wednesday.
 
 The Italian cruise ship docked at Kochi for a few hours, as part of their tour package. 
 
 When most of their guests had left the ship for sight-seeing, the crew invited the students over for a special day at the ship, during which the entertainers performed for children before they departed for Maldives. 
 
 Students, aged between 3 and 31, were shocked to see the massive ship which can accommodate as many as 1,700 passengers. 
 
 Some were reluctant to enter the gigantic ship and insisted that their teachers should hold their hands as they entered the ship.
 
 "Opportunities such as these help them overcome their fear of socializing," said  , secretary of the Smrithi School's trust.
 
 They witnessed a performance that combined acrobatics, magic and music. The overjoyed students were jumping on their seats as the performance continued and later joined the crew on stage for a dance.
 
 "Normally, after a performance, we get really tired but not this time. Twenty years of practice and moments like this makes it really special," said the acrobatic entertainer,  , who later joined the children with other members of the crew for singing and dance session.
 
 After the visit came to an end the crew accompanied the students to their bus.
 
 "One of our students, he has cerebral palsy; people sometimes question why we take him on our excursions. But he understands what is happening around him, and he was so happy to be here today," said  , principal of the special school that educates children with special needs for no cost at all.
 
 "I am glad that they have enjoyed the day. It was an unforgettable day for us; we will be watching these videos of today several times after this because these moments will be amongst the most memorable ones for us. It helps build the positive energy in the ship," said  , hotel director at Costa neoClassica.
 
 
