MUMBAI: And he's back like a tracer bullet! You could say   looked to play on the front foot all the time, even as his captain   chose to take a backseat in  's pre-departure press conference on Wednesday. It was also Shastri's first interaction with the media since his re-appointment as coach.

 Before India left for their first full-fledged tour to Sri Lanka in eight years, Shastri seemed prepared to face questions surrounding the controversial coaching and support staff issues. In his typical firebrand mode, the former all-rounder-turned-commentator didn't hold back while hinting about the difficulty he faced in getting his own choice of support staff -essentially bowling coach  ."I have matured since we last went to Sri Lanka. I feel have matured a lot in the last two weeks," he thundered.
 
 The 55-year-old insisted that he had moved on from the past, but didn't forget to remind that if Team India did well recently, it was solely due to the efforts of the players and not the coach.
 
 "Mine will be the refresh button. I don't come with any baggage. The team has done exceedingly well in the last three years, they are the people who deserve credit. The Ravi Shastris and Anil Kumbles will come and go. If India are the No.1 Test team today, it is because of the effort of the players. People will come and go. The fabric of Indian cricket will remain," he stressed.
 
 To those who're still doubting his preference of Arun over   to help out Team India's bowlers, Shastri had a strong answer. "There's track record there. Fifteen years of his life have been spent coaching. He has been with A teams, U-19 teams, junior World Cup teams. He knows the boys better than I do. In the 2015 World Cup, our bowlers took 77 out of 80 wickets. If he was a big name, you would have put him on the top of the tree. I don't need to elaborate too much on what he is good at. It's there for everyone to see."
 
 Answering a question about the importance of clear communication between the captain and the coach, Shastri gave one a fair idea of his coaching philosophy. "I will answer the same question wearing two hats and there is no conflict of interest here... one as player and one as a former captain," he started off.
 
 "When you play the game, you want your mind clear, you want to be able to focus inwards without a care in the world t to anything on the outside. And that haps pens with good communication with the support staff. "Now, I will go on the other side as head coach. My job is to do put every e player in a frame of mind (so) that he is. thinking about his role and the team and of course the opposition which we always respect, and that's his job."
 
 Almost a year has gone by since he was dumped in favour of Kumble, but going t by Shastri's demeanour in Wednesday's interaction, it seemed clear that he hasn't taken long to take guard. 
 
 
