PUNE: One-way traffic on many roads of the city is at the root of the wrong-side driving problem, city-based traffic planning and design experts pointed out. Notification of roads as one-ways must be backed by a thorough study of the spot and by eliminating all risks of its misuse, they advised. 

 The inherent vehicle flow system on   and   encourages road users to drive on the wrong side for the sake of saving a few minutes and to overcome the hassle of navigating through chaotic traffic on connecting by lanes, the experts stated.
 
 Vehicles moving along the wrong side of the road make the roads notoriously difficult stretches, the circumstances aren't too different on other thoroughfares in the city, where one-way traffic has been introduced recently.
 
 One-ways should not be encouraged unless there is a time-bound and specific purpose in mind, emphasised Pranjali Deshpande-Agashe, state programme manager for the Institute for Transportation and Development Policy.
 
 "A road may require conversion into a one-way if a Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) corridor is being developed on it. Otherwise, one-ways are a complete failure because they actually make the stretch more inconvenient and dangerous for cyclists, pedestrians, even public transport. It's unfortunate that one-ways in the city only facilitate and encourage private vehicles," she said.
 
 Countries all over the world are going back to two-way traffic, explained  , founder of the NGO Parisar.
 
  "One-ways are a short-sighted solution to provide convenience for private motor vehicles that are a part of the problem, not a solution to the traffic chaos in the city. One-ways not only encourage speeding and dangerous driving but even tempt otherwise law-abiding citizen to break the rule for the sake of a shortcut," he shared.
 
 A detailed study of the on-ground situation combined with regular review and enforcement of traffic rules is the only way to ensure that one-ways work, said traffic consultant Pratapsingh Bhonsle. 
 
 "It is important to study a spot before deciding to impose one-way in the area. Views of local residents and those likely to be affected by the change should also be factored in democratically. Besides, a real-time review of the traffic situation at the spot is a must to understand if the change is working. Enforcement, of course, is the key to ensuring the change works without a hitch," he said.
 
 Bhonsle cited the example of   where an experiment to reverse the one-way rule was carried out in early 2016 and received mixed results.
 
