NEW DELHI: Although the trash dumps are yet to spill over into the streets, the residents’ welfare associations of trans-Yamuna colonies are apprehensive that pre-poll one-upmanship will aggravate the situation created by the indefinite strike over unpaid salaries by sanitation workers of the   that began on Friday.

 “Delhi government and EDMC have made such strikes an annual drama. How long are the people to tolerate this?” fumed BS Vohra, president of the federation of East Delhi RWAs. “This time, we are more apprehensive as municipal elections are due and the parties might bring their political differences to bear on the issue.” 
 
 In a similar vein, members of most RWAs in the areas affected by the sanitation strike pinned the blame for the recurring problem on the political tussle between BJP and AAP. They apprehend that AAP, which will participate in a full municipal campaign this year for the first time, could stymie BJP by refusing to bail out EDMC for electoral benefits. Fed up with the repeated strikes, which leave street reeking and covered in filth, they appealed to the stakeholders to find a permanent solution to the financial woes of the civic body.
 
 Concurring with them, VN Bali, president of RWA Federation of Delhi East, wondered why the civic body did not prioritise its responsibilities, given its strained budget. “BJP and AAP just throw   at each other instead of sorting out civic problems,” he said. “The sanitation workers are low-income employees who can’t survive without salaries for two months.”
 
 Raj Kumar, president of the Preet Vihar RWA, said that because sanitation is a critical service of the municipality, such strikes should be banned altogether. “You cannot play around with people’s health,” he declared. At Geeta Colony, the RWA president, Vijay Kocchar, reported that no sweeping had been done on Friday. “We took care of the garbage within our blocks, but we can’t manage the streets too,” he said. Last year, a similar strike had led to uncollected garbage spreading diseases, he claimed. 
 
 The entrance to West Vinod Nagar on Narwana Road had heaps of   on the first day of the strike. 
 
 “The stink is already becoming unbearable,” complained RK Verma, member of the RWA who lives near  . When the muck dumped at the gate remained uncollected, corporation workers told residents that they were protesting the non-payment of their salaries. “As long as BJP and Kejriwal keep on squabbling, the citizens will continue to suffer,” rued Verma.
 
 There are fears of the strike spreading, with some RWAs of colonies in north Delhi getting hints from workers of the similarly cash-strapped   that trash disposal might be affected in the coming days.
 
 
