AMRITSAR: As many as 50 NRIs, who arrived in Amritsar on Tuesday, staged protest against the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) demanding that it should come clean on matter of funds received. Chicago-based doctor  , who led the group of NRIs discontented with  , told TOI that they were upset with the party for hiding its donations received from the Indian Diaspora since June 2016.

 Interestingly, in October 2013, Dr Raizada, a neo-natal specialist, had taken a sabbatical to work as a volunteer with AAP in Delhi. He coordinated with potential NRI donors at that time. He was part of the team that gathered from different parts of the world to campaign for AAP during the Delhi assembly elections.
 
 “A political party can never fight corruption if it can’t keep its own money clean,” Raizada, while advising that the group of NRIs, who had arrived to support AAP in Punjab, to rethink over their decision.
 
 He and other NRIs staged a silent protest holding up banners with slogans like: “We are ashamed that AAP has fielded maximum (16) tainted candidates”, and “No list, no donation”. The group is calling their protest, “Chanda Band Satyagraph (No Donation Campaign)”.
 
 Raizada, who has been suspended from AAP, regretted that those who had come to change politics had become “a part of the same dirty game”. He said that on November 26, 2016, the foundation day of AAP, he had written an open letter to the party to make NRIs donations public on its web portal.
 
 He met social activist   at his village in Maharashtra and then wrote a letter to AAP convener  , but to no avail.
 
 Raizada said that he had in all donated around Rs 8 lakh to AAP from his personal resources over a period of time, besides mobilizing funds for the party. “At one point, 25% of AAP’s total donations were from the US,” he said.
 
 The NRIs intend to continue their ‘No Donation Campaign’ in Punjab right up till the assembly elections. They distributed pamphlets among general public urging them to be aware of AAP’s alleged corrupt practices.
 
 An octogenarian volunteer of AAP from London, Jainath Mishra, said, “The aim of the campaign is to create awareness among people in Punjab against AAP’s corrupt funding practices before the upcoming elections on February 4.”
 
