BENGALURU: Several aspiring   with good   (NEET) scores were shocked on Thursday when they saw that the   did not have 845   from 11 medical colleges.

 The failure of the   to send a complete list on Thursday morning saw KEA uploading an incomplete list which had 845 medical seats missing from the merit quota. Compounding the confusion was KEA blaming the department when students asked about the missing seats.
 
 “We were shocked as it would mean we go under the management quota where the fees is nearly six to eight times higher than that of a merit seat. A merit seat fee is Rs 77,000 while management quota is Rs 6.32 lakh,'' said students.
 
 Students noticed the error in the KEA website on Thursday morning. Most of these colleges were removed from the list and were found to be under the linguistic minority category .
 
 Vydehi Medical College and Research Centre in Whi tefield with 62 seats under the government merit quota, Rajarajeswari Medical College and Hospital at Kambipura on Mysore Road with 38 seats, MVJ Medical College and Research Hospital in Hoskote with 38 seats are some linguistic minority colleges whose names have been removed from the seat matrix. The candidates and their parents pointed out that the names of these 11 colleges with 845 seats were included on the KEA website.
 
 Siraj K (name changed), a techie and father of an aspiring medical candidate, said: “While the brochure has 53 medical colleges offering 3,282 seats under the government merit quota, we were dumbfound to see only 42 colleges offering 2,437 seats under the government quota on the KEA website after the medical seat matrix was published.“
 
 
 
 
 “There isn't any error in our website and names of these institutes have been removed as per the list sent to us by the director of medical education. The list did not contain names of these institutes and hence we did not publish them. However, we are not aware of the reason why the names of these institutes have been removed,“ said K S Manjunath, executive director, KEA.
 
