PUNE: Voters from the city seem to have taken a shine to New-Age technology which was introduced for the first time ahead of the   elections.

 Special mobile applications designed to help voters search for their name proved a hit, with 50,000 people. Even the online search facility received a good response, with more than 10.67 lakh people making use of the option.
 
 “The new facilities were made available so as many people as possible can take advantage and search for their names, thus finally increasing the voter turnout,“ said  , election officer.
 
 According to the civic officials, the voter outreach programmes conducted by the state election commission, NGOs, political parties and housing societies resulted in a 4.5% increase in turnout, from the 51% in 2012. The civic admi nistration was aiming for a 70% turnout.
 
 As per PMC's IT department, new technologies like auto scaling and load balancing, a fast search engine and cloud technology were used for this purpose. It has made the process easy and reliable.
 
 “Before launching this online service we were anticipating a good response. The por tal was designed based on that response. Even the mobile application was developed to deal with high inflow,“ said Rahul Jagtap, an official of PMC's IT department.
 
 The turnout in Pune has been consistently low in the last four municipal elections, with a little more than half the electorate exercising its franchise. Even in the 2014 Lok Sabha and Assembly elections, Pune had recorded a near-similar voter turnout of 53.46% and 56.14% respectively.
 
 The performance of Peth areas was, however, noticeable this time. The highest number of votes (62.6%) were cast in   ward, while the adjacent Kasba Peth-Somwar Peth panel was second-highest at 62.1%.
 
 Elections for as many as 10 municipal corporations including Pune were conducted on February 21. Around 26.43 lakh voters were registered for this election in Pune.
 
 As per the political observers, the surge in the voting has helped BJP in becoming the single largest party after the results were announced on February 23. For the first time in history of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, the twin cities will have a BJP mayor as the party has trampled the ruling   (NCP) which was in power in civic bodies for the last 10 years.
 
