CHARMINAR: As the Haj-2017 season is set to begin next month, medical experts call upon Indian Muslims, particularly diabetics, to take precautions to avoid severe health complications during the annual   to   and   in Saudi Arabia.

 The rate of morbidity (illness) and mortality (death) is relatively higher among Indian pilgrims compared with those from developed nations.A substantially large number of Indian Hajis suffer from various chronic ailments, including diabetes and renal, cardiac and pulmonary issues. Also, most pilgrims in the Indian contingent are senior citizens.
 
 A team of Indian doctors studied health complications and   among Indian pilgrims to the Islamic holy cities of Mecca and Media in the last three Haj seasons -2014, 2015 and 2016 -and came out with many recommendations to reduce morbidity and mortality in the 2017 Haj season. About 1.5 lakh pilgrims from India perform Haj every year.
 
 The research study by experts from the   and Base Hospital, New Delhi, among other research institutions revealed that the crude mortality rate for Indian pilgrims in Mecca and Medina is about 12 per 10,000.
 
 “This is slightly higher when compared with other countries,“ Dr Inam Danish Khan, the corresponding aut hor of the research study , told TOI. The study was published in the latest issue of the   (JIPH).
 
 The researchers obtained data about Indian pilgrims from the various medical and health camps organised by the Indian government during Haj. Data was also obtained from secondary care and referral hospitals during AugustOctober, 2016.
 
 According to the study , diabetic pilgrims from India “largely presented with pneumonia and cellulitis foot. There was inadequate glycemic control at presentation due to poor medication and precautionary compliance despite prescriptions of insulin and oral antihyperglycemics from India“ Dr Khan suggested that diabetics should carry their medicines, their own glucometer and medical record to avoid complications. “Diabetics should use protective footwear and avoid exposure to intense sunlight during the Haj. Poor blood sugar control may cause problems related nerves and lungs. Their immunity levels are relatively compromised,“ Dr Khan added.
 
