AURANGABAD: A 30-year-old man was rounded up on Saturday morning for targeting women while they were walking in areas surrounding   and Nirala Bazar.

 The crime branch of the city police and the   conducted a joint operation to arrest the suspect. The arrested has been identified as Shaikh Aminuddin, a Jaisingpura resident and a labourer by profession. Sleuths have also seized the two-wheeler he used while targeting the women.
 
 The accused used to target women on deserted streets and touched them inappropriately. If the residents of the area are to be believed, the miscreant has been targeting women over the past few years. Apart from the morning walkers, he also targeted women pedestrians during the day on deserted streets.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (Zone-I) Vasant Pardeshi said, “The situation reached a stage, where fearing social stigma, victims preferred staying indoors and did not lodge any official complaint.”
 
 A few unofficial complaints had been lodged against the accused before. After a series of attempts to bring the victims on record about the bike-borne suspect, senior police officers decided to take a call on the situation.
 
 DCP Pardeshi, along with DCP (headquarters) Sandeep Atole, crime branch inspector Madhukar Sawant and Kranti Chowk police station inspector Dhananjay Yerule on Friday evening conducted a reconnaissance in the area and decided to lay a trap.”
 
  said, “The suspect kept us on our toes for months. We got footage of him on   cameras sometimes, it was an uphill task identifying him as he does not have any criminal record.”
 
 A senior police officer decided to lay a trap for him on early Saturday morning and nab the suspect red-handed. Several police teams were deployed on the stretch where he was known to strike. He was caught red-handed while harassing a woman.
 
 Crime branch inspector Madhukar Sawant said, “After working on the case for the past few years, police had CCTV footage as the only lead in the case. It was an uphill task to nab him, but on Saturday morning our efforts paid result and he was arrested.”
 
 Kranti Chowk police inspector Dhananjay Yerule said, “After arresting the accused, a 36-year-old woman mustered the courage to lodge an official complaint against him on Saturday, following which a case has been registered against him.”
 
 The officer said that the accused will be produced before the court and his judicial custody would be sought so that an identification parade is carried out by the woman complainant.
 
