GOA: Meet  , a 74-year-old ‘young’ man, who is extremely particular about looking picture-perfect before being clicked.

 Sitting inside one of Goa’s oldest typewriter shops located at Rua St Tome, Panaji, Luis wonders if an article from his store holds any value in the present era, where almost every task is computer-driven. One, however, can’t dismiss the old-world charm his shop exudes. From Remington, to Hermes, to Godrej, the little outlet holds 10-12 vintage  , one of which has even crossed a century of existence.
 
 Luis, a man with an endearing smile and a warm demeanour, makes everyone who walks into his shop named after his father,   feel comfortable, be it a customer or a curious passer-by. He has been striving to keep his father’s dream alive for the last 65 years, more out of passion than compulsion.
 
 Domingos, Luis recounts, lived in Mumbai for a considerable period of time, during which he served at the renowned American typewriter manufacturer, Remington Rand. He travelled to Goa and subsequently set up his typewriter shop in 1938, becoming the official dealer of Remington Rand typewriters in Goa. He was also the official typewriter supplier to military establishments and government offices.
 
 A lot has changed since then, but Luis says the store still attracts customers who wish to show their children what a typewriter looks like. “Some come to get their grandfather’s typewriter repaired. Although we now focus on repairing and servicing, availability of parts has become a concern,” he adds.
 
 That’s not all he has to worry about, however. The septuagenarian, who moved to Panaji from Chorao in 1953, says he is likely the last member of the Abreu family to keep the business running. “I have a house a few metres away and have got enough to lead a happy life. But I have chosen to continue this business. I’m the second-generation custodian and perhaps the last one, because although I have four children, all of them have their own professional passion to follow. So, I guess this legacy won’t continue,” laments Luis, also a musician who played the violoncello in an orchestra for one of the celebratory events during Pope John Paul II’s visit to Goa in 1986.
 
 One can sense a tinge of sadness as he reminisces how, as a child, he would live in a boarding facility nearby and help his father with the trade. “Bullock- and horse-drawn carts used to ply along the muddy road. Times are different now,” he rues.
 
 In fact, the only person who has lent an unwavering support to running the business is his wife, Jessie.
 
 Luis says he introduced parcel-packaging into the business around six years ago just to sustain the shop. “I also deal in ink, carbon ribbons etc,” he adds.
 
 What’s next up his sleeve? “I would like to work as long as I can and retire gracefully,” he signs off.
 
 
