NAGPUR: While adjourning the hearing, the   of  , on Thursday, observed that ‘it don’t want to give much importance’ to controversial lawyer   and ‘he is not a criminal’.

 The specially constituted division bench of justice   and justice Zaka Haq adjourned the hearing till April 7 stating that they were not in a hurry. “The assistant public prosecutor (APP) pointed out that other division bench in suo motu contempt petition (No 2/2017) had issued a bailable warrant against the contemnor on Wednesday. It was done to secure his presence on April 5. The police commissioner is directed to ensure that warrant is served to respondent. In view of that, we deem appropriate that his matter be adjourned till April 7 till 2.30pm,” the judges said.
 
 Earlier, APP Ketki Joshi informed that protection granted by the court to Uke stood cancelled after he failed to turn up and deposit Rs4.12 lakh imposed on him with the registry. The judges then pointed out that unless warrant is executed goes, they can’t proceed ahead.
 
 Joshi then informed that the court can evolve its own procedure and its role was not limited to Civil Procedure Code (CPC) or Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). “He is avoiding warrant and concealed himself. Other steps could be taken as warrant wasn’t executed,” she said.
 
 On Wednesday, a division bench comprising justice   and justice Indira Jain asked Uke to pay Rs10,000 before April 5. The APP was asked to communicate the court’s order to commissioner of police K Venkatesh. The CP was told to ensure that warrant is served to contemnor before deadline.
 
 Uke achieved a dubious distinction of becoming first lawyer in the city’s history to be convicted for the contempt of the court. It was also the first case in Nagpur court’s history where proceedings are video recorded. Fed up with his perennial habit of making reckless allegations against sitting judges and lawyers and his delaying tactics, the judges slapped another suo motu contempt on Uke on February 22, asking him to deposit another Rs2 lakh towards as cash security with the registry.
 
 
