BHUBANESWAR: The 22nd   Championships will remain engraved in the memory of people of Bhubaneswar for many more years to come. In the last five days around 100000 spectators watched athletes in action on tracks and fields. They cheered and sighed for them. Many youngsters got their inspirations and idols among the sportsmen and women while many vowed to bring laurels for the country like them.

 "We could have never feel and realise that athletics could be so interesting and entertaining. There were nail-biting moments. We also got disappointed when we missed medals and also emotional moments when Indian athletes kissed tracks after winning gold. It was an amazing experience," said  , a sports lover. 
 
 Sports frenzy has gripped the capital city of Bhubaneswar like never before as all roads led to   the venue for the 22nd Asian Athletics Championships that concluded here on Sunday. Jam-packed galleries and long queues for tickets outside the stadium are evident of the craze and interest for athletics the big-ticket event could stirred among the general public. 
 
 "Around one lakh people have witnessed the events in Kalinga Stadium during the last five days. The world class infrastructure created for hosting the events will help in nurturing sporting talents of the state in days to come," said R  , director sports and youth affairs. 
 
 Odisha government completed all arrangements for the event in a record 90 days and created infrastructure to host the Asian Athletics meet. Even though the stadium has a capacity of 13,000 the craze for the events was witnessed outside the stadium as well. "The games are the talk of the town in the last five days. At hotels, shops, markets, tea stalls everywhere people are talking about the championships. Roads and markets wore a deserted look during the evening hours. The response to the games is unexpected and overwhelming," said  , an engineering student.
 
 In a city where people never showed much interest in sports except cricket and hockey the madness for athletics is certainly a positive sign for the growth of sports in the state. "The championship has changed the mindset of people towards sports and it is going to stay for some years now," said  , sports teacher of DAV Public School, Chandrasekharpur. 
 
 The championship was also a great opportunity for school children who watched world class athletes performing in various tracks and field events. "It has been a great learning experience for us and we really feel motivated to play athletics after watching the sportsmen in action. We did not know many things about athletics and also learned the way technology is being used in the games. The stamina and fitness level of the athletes is incredible," said  , a class VII student.
 
 However, many sports lovers who came from places across the state to witness the events got disappointed for not getting tickets or passes. "It was a big disappointment for my kids as they came with lots of hope to watch national and international athletes. But no tickets were available neither online and offline," said  , who came from Cuttack.
 
