CHANDIGARH: Scholarship hunters have found a fertile fishing ground in the United Kingdom. To draw more Indian students into higher studies in the UK, the British Council has floated the ‘Great Scholarships 2017’ scheme. “Is it any worth?” you ask. Well, how about Rs 8.38 crore?

 As part of the ‘Great Britain’ campaign, the council has come up with a new proposition: ‘Study UK, Discover You’, wherein students can avail themselves of 198 ‘Great scholarships’ in fields ranging from art and design to engineering, law, and management. Of these, 29 are undergraduate and 169 postgraduate scholarships.
 
 The campaign’s participating universities include London’s University of Arts, Aston, Edinburgh Napier, Middlesex, Kingston, Warwick, London Metropolitan, and Bristol.
 
 The British Council mobile app ‘Study UK, Discover You’ delivers information about the UK institutions and the way to apply. “The UK hosts four of the world’s top 10 universities. The number of visas to Indian students has increased by 6% in the previous three quarters, from the corresponding intake period last year. Nearly 20,000 students from India visit the UK for higher studies every year,” said Gagandeep, education counsellor from IDP.
 
 “After graduation in business management, I now look for foreign universities with good scholarship offers and quality education. There are some   available in the UK,” says Pulkit Bathla from New Delhi, who had come to a British Council exhibition in Chandigarh last week. There are many ways indeed to a great scholarship. We list a few.
 
 
 
 
 A scholarship application contains the university’s or the sponsor’s selection criteria generally. Do a bit of research, go to their website, and study the criteria well. Select a course that is interesting and comes with a good number of scholarships. Also, look for the organisation’s/sponsor’s mission statement and tailor your application accordingly; you will stand a good chance.
 
 
 
 It’s a numbers game and even among the most accomplished students, luck counts. So, apply to as many universities and programmes as you can. You need to give the names of references. Check with them beforehand and brief them about yourself, your educational accomplishments, and interests. Many institutions will crosscheck it with them.
 
 
 
 Often, the applicants get lazy and avoid scholarship contests that require them to write an essay. Writing a good essay increases your chances of success, so don’t shy away from it. Give it your best shot.
 
 
 
 In the scholarship essay, write details about yourself—the person you are, your aim, and aspirations. It’s a good idea usually to focus on a problem and explain how you solved it. Anything that highlights your skills and problem-solving abilities is likely to impress the universities.
 
 
 
 
 Many sponsors, non-profit organisations especially, often look to support students who have a track record of volunteer work or community service. Get into social work. It makes your scholarship application more impressive.
 
 
 
 Look around for local scholarships. Check bulletin boards at financial-aid offices and the other likely places. Local scholarships, though small in amount, are easier to win than the national ones for which the competition is stiffer.
 
 
 
 
 A word of caution: don’t just go by the scholarship amount. See the worth of the course, its market value, and job potential, and your interest in the subject.
 
 
