HYDERABAD: Applicants of the Layout Regularization Scheme (LRS) are crying foul over   (NALA) tax being collected by   (HMDA) for regularizing their open plots.

 The authority has been collecting 4.5% NALA tax from the applicants despite it not having received any order from the municipal administration and urban development allowing it to do so. But the authority , which has been facing severe financial crisis for some time now, has decided to augment its income by levying the NALA tax on 1.65 lakh LRS applicants.
 
 For instance, to get a 200 sq yard plot, an owner in   near LB Nagar, has been asked to pay `23,000 towards NALA charges apart from his total penal charges and open spaces charges which come to about `87,000.
 
 Official sources said that earlier, the NALA tax was just 3%, but the HMDA initially fixed NALA charges as 9% of the land value. Due to resentment from both land owners and developers, the HMDA later reduced it to 4.5% but many say this tax is unjustified and a burden on plot owners.
 
 NALA charges are introduced to discourage indiscriminate conversion of agriculture land for other purposes . “In Hyderabad metropolitan master plan, there is no mention of agriculture land usage. How can the authority charge land conversion charges on people without provision for agricultural land in the urban area? NALA charge is a matter that pertains to the revenue department.HMDA cannot collect it. Even if it does, it has to remit the amount to the revenue department,“ M Venkat Ram, a citybased developer said.
 
 Interestingly , the   (GHMC), which regula rizes open plots in authorized layouts, has not been collecting any NALA tax.
 
 “A few months ago, the HMDA had written a letter to the revenue department to delegate powers to the urban authority to collect NALA charges.But the department has not responded yet. NALA charges are being collected from applicants under layout approval rules of the authority ,“ HMDA director (planning) K   said.
 
 Meanwhile, applicants allege that even after paying the total penal amount, they were not getting final proceedings. Officials say the delay in site inspections and final approvals were due to lack of manpower.
 
