NEW DELHI: The long-neglected   in north-west Delhi will get a new lease of life — not as a typical tourist rendezvous, but as a natural water body. The rejuvenation plan for the lake got a fillip last week after the visit of union culture and tourism minister Mahesh Sharma and area MP and union science & technology minister  . With the tourism ministry’s assurance of monetary assistance, the   is now ready to proceed with the revamp of the few surviving water bodies in the capital.

 The earlier proposal of turning the area into a typical tourist spot with power boats, zorbing and laser shows has been junked because, as Gupta pointed out, “the lake is in a residential area and such activities might disturb both residents as well as the aquatic life”. The effort will be to restore the natural ambience of the lake. “The ecological rejuvenation of the water body will incorporate the inputs submitted by professor CR Babu, an environmental expert who was also involved in the  ,” said commissioner PK Gupta of the North Corporation.
 
 Based on the ideas finalised at a meeting on Monday, the engineering department will submit a detailed plan to ensure work will begin this month. While Babu’s plan estimated a cost of Rs 16 lakh, the additional projects envisaged now will entail a cost of up to Rs 1 crore. “We will use corporation funds to start the work. The union tourism ministry will reimburse us,” said an official.
 
 Methods use to redevelop Ahmedabad’s Kankaria Lake (Hauz-e-Qutub) will be replicated at the Model Town lake. In the first phase, Naini Lake, whose depth varies from 4 to 10 feet, will be de-silted and aeration enhanced through pumps and showers to increase dissolved oxygen levels. “A small effluent treatment plant will be erected and aquatic plants proposed by Babu will be planted,” informed Gupta.
 
 Naurang Singh, chief engineer of the North Corporation, said, “The current brick-and-mortar drains are choked. Along with new drains, we will also construct inlets and outlets that will harvest rainwater from the surrounding areas to recharge the lake.” Singh added that inspired by the peripheral illumination at Kankaria Lake, the Naini Lake too would be beautifully lit up without disturbing the aquatic life after changes being made in the rectangular lake to give it a more aesthetic circular look. 
 
