Panaji: The headmistress of a   school—where, in 2013 a minor girl was raped— was discharged after the children’s court held that she was not solely responsible for ensuring a safe environment for the students.

 The accused, including the headmistress, a clerk and a teacher of the school, were charged with ‘rash and negligent act’ for endangering the personal safety of a student who was sexually assaulted in the school toilet. 
 
 The clerk and the teacher were charged with destruction of evidence for washing the victim after the assault. 
 
 While discharging all the three accused, the court held that there was no prima facie evidence against them.
 
 “Thus, the accused No 1, who is the headmistress and one of the members of the management, cannot be solely made liable for the safety and security of the school children, by excluding the other members of the management and, more specifically, the then secretary,” children’s court president Vandana Tendulkar, said.
 
 The earlier secretary was relieved soon after the incident and was not made party to the proceedings.
 
 A statement made by the present secretary of the education society mentioned that it was the duty of the secretary to look after the administration of the school and that the management comprises 12 members, including the headmistress. 
 
 The court observed that the prosecution had produced nothing to show that it was the duty of the accused persons to employ sufficient security persons to deploy at the school’s two gates. It further observed that while one CISF security personnel was deployed at one gate, material on record did not show that the accused had left the other gate unguarded. 
 
 The complaint had stated that there are two gates to enter the school premises and that while one gate was manned by a CISF security personnel, there was no guard at the second gate. 
 
 The liability of one of the accused is limited to clerical work while that of the third accused is limited to teaching work, the court observed, adding that the headmistress deals with administration and is a part of the management committee. 
 
 Regarding the prosecution’s claim that two of the accused had destroyed a vital piece of evidence by washing the victim, the court held that the actual offender was an unknown male person and therefore “there is no intention on the part of the duo (accused in the case) to destroy evidence”.
 
 Public prosecutors N Marathe and K Sanzgiry argued on behalf of the state, while advocate A Viegas argued on behalf of the headmistress and the clerk. Advocate Raikar argued for the teacher. 
 
 The CBI had filed its closure report in the main minor girl rape case in February even as the accused remained untraceable.
 
 
