MUMBAI: In a major relief for residents moving into their new   after redevelopment, the department of registration and stamps has ruled that they need not pay  .

 The circular issued by Inspector General of Registration (IGR) and Controller of Stamps, N Ramaswamy, last week will help flat owners save over Rs 1 lakh.
 
 Property market sources said the biggest beneficiaries will be redevelopment projects in suburbs like Mulund, Ghatkopar, Chembur, Goregaon, Kandivli, Borivli and Andheri. The   duty for a 2BHK flat payable by each old member in a newly constructed building was around Rs 1 lakh.
 
 Developer Hitesh Thakkar said the saving could even be as high as Rs 1.5 lakh for a 2BHK flat in some suburban localities. Stamp duty is generally paid by the flat owner, but in some cases developers take on the onus of paying it. “It all depends on how the agreement is signed between the builder and society,” added Thakkar.
 
 The National   Development Council (Naredco) had been lobbying with the department of registration and stamps since some time to remove this levy. It claimed that in case of redevelopment projects, builders and residents were being made to pay stamp duty twice. The new circular pertains to paying stamp duty in Permanent Alternate Accommodation Agreement between society, developers and flat owners (tripartite agreement).
 
 Earlier, when this agreement was signed, the department levied stamp duty. This levy is based on construction cost for rehab component, rent for temporary alternative accommodation paid to society or its members, corpus amount for allowing utilization of transfer of development rights (TDR) paid to the society, transportation charges and brokerage for finding temporary alternative accommodation. On the basis of this, stamp duty is calculated for redevelopment agreement and same is paid by the builder redeveloping the property.
 
 When the developer completes the project and hands over the redeveloped building to the original residents, another tripartite agreement is signed for the new premises between the builder, society and members. The department would again charge stamp duty on the newly constructed building based on the construction cost. Housing experts said this amounted to double duty and had been urging the department to abolish it.
 
 Rajan Bandelkar of Naredco said the organisation had pointed out this anomaly to the department. “If stamp duty on cost of construction is already paid on redevelopment agreement then how can the department charge the same stamp duty again while registration of Permanent Alternate Accommodation Agreement with old members. And why should old members pay such a large amount of stamp duty again?” he said.
 
 According to the March 30 circular, stamp duty on the new premises will be applicable as per provisions of Section 4 of Maharashtra Stamp Act. The amount varies between Rs 100 to Rs 1,000 for each new flat.
 
 Society or developer is now required to submit one Permanent Alternate Accommodation Agreement in the collector’s office for authentication.
 
