NAGPUR: In order to throw light and address the problems prevailing in villages, Agrovet-Agroengg Mitra Pariwar (AAMP) held a panel   on ‘Rural Development and Objectives for 2025’ at Nag Vidarbha Chamber of Commerce (NVCC), Civil Lines, on Monday. 

 Chairman of the committee for road map of rural development of Maharashtra, Sudhir Thakre (IAS) presided over the panel discussion.
 
 Representatives from many NGOs of the city including Janmanch, Rotary Club, Gramin Shikshan, Red Swastik Society etc participated in the event. Rural issues of employment, education, health facilities, transportation were discussed during the programme.
 
 Veterinary and technical officer at Zilla Parishad Deepak Kadu said, “The quality and purity of seeds is degrading. The agricultural development department should look into the matter.   should be given the ultimate power to make decisions and political interference should be avoided.”
 
 AAMP president Dilip Mohitkar talked about the need for increasing farmer’s cooperatives. “Previously the money generated through milk production would remain with the farmers as they were marketed through farmer’s cooperatives, the number of which have now declined by 60%.” 
 
 Mohitkar also revealed how demonetization is still affecting the villagers. “While the government is promoting a cashless economy, it should ask banks to reach out to rural areas too. There are no ATM branches in interiors and District cooperative   (DCCB) are shutting down. Demonetization was announced during the loan recovery period and many DCCBs couldn’t stay afloat,” he said. 
 
 Allotment of fertile land for commercial purposes is a great problem, said Pranay Parate, secretary, AAMP. “Authorities are responsible for this. Only non-agricultural land should be given for such purposes. Also, there is an urgent need to open schools in rural areas to secure the future of children,” he said.
 
 Farming alone will not be helpful and side businesses like poultry farming and dairy should be set up, said  , retired Dr Panjabrao Deshmukh Krishi Vidyapeeth (PDKV) official. 
 
 Mohitkar suggested that government should seek help from NGOs already working for agricultural development. He said “We conduct awareness campaigns, demonstrations and seminars to enlighten villagers about proper techniques of farming and guide them.” Former director of Central Institute for Cotton Research, Bhairosingh Kairo, Narsimha Parlawar associate dean, PDKV, Arjun Gugal, a doctorate in agriculture were also present.
 
