CHANDIGARH: The Union home ministry on Friday told the   high court that as a Y-plus category state protectee and senior Congress leader   would be entitled for the same category of security cover in all other parts of the country.

 An affidavit in this regard was filed by the MHA official in response to a petition filed by the Kaithal MLA regarding his security cover. “Surjewala is present a Y-plus (earlier called Y threat) category protectee in Haryana and has been provided with full component of entitled security by the state government… he will be entitled for the same category of security cover in all other parts of the country, including in the state of Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Manipur and Goa, where electioneering is going on, except in Delhi where he would be entitled for ‘Y’ category protection as a visiting protectee,” the ministry has told the court. 
 
 “Besides during his visit to other states, the security personnel deployed with him may also accompany him during his tours outside the state, if the tour is not more than three days,” the affidavit reads.
 
 The Union ministry, however, made it clear that the threat assessment to Surjewala had again been obtained from central security agency and as per its report, the fresh assessment did not indicate any specific threat to him from any terrorist or militant outfits.
 
 The ministry told the court that in absence of any specific input of threat to the Congress leader, inclusion of his name as a categorized protectee in the central list in Delhi was not warranted.
 
 Counsel for Surjewala, however, expressed apprehension that at any stage or at any point of time, the government may place him in a different category and in that eventuality, the he may be afforded an opportunity of hearing.
 
 Hearing that, Justice Amit Rawal of the HC ordered that in case the Centre or state deemed it appropriate to change the category of his security cover, permission from the court may be sought. With this the HC has disposed of the matter.
 
