The   ( ) may schedule class X and XII board exams in the second week of March this year after the assembly elections in five states. The dates of the exam will, however, be declared early next week by the board. The exam usually commences from March 1every year.

 Last year, the board released the exam dates on January 2. This year, it is yet to announce the dates. Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh,  , Punjab, Goa and   are scheduled from February 11to March 8.Many of the teachers will be deployed on election duty in these five states. The board is, therefore, considering scheduling of the exams in the second week to avoid any clash.
 
 An official, however, said that the dates will be announced early next week and students should wait until then.
 
 However, students of class XII are worried that they will have to attempt the board exam and the joint entrance exam simultaneously if the exam commences late. JEE (Main) is scheduled to be held in the first week of April. Class XII exam usually begins on March 1 and ends in April. Principals, however, said that the board usually avoids any such clashes and a delay of a week will not affect the results and other schedules. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has further clamped down on the way schools recruit principals by making changes to the bylaws governing superannuation. Now only national awardee principals will be eligible to continue at their post after the age of 60 and that too only with prior approval of CBSE.
 
 Until now, the process was fairly simple with even state and CBSE awardees being allowed to continue as principals till the age of 65, and that too without any intervention from CBSE.
 
 This is the second change CBSE has made in the last one month to its bylaws that controls recruitment of principals. Though CBSE did not give any reason for the changes, sources say it's part of the central board's ongoing drive against familyowned schools that promote their kin as principals. The other decision includes rejigging the principal selection committee to include CBSE plus state government nominees. This effectively finished off the monopoly school management had on principal hiring.
 
 The decision on superannuation has come with another rider of age cap. CBSE has pretty much made it clear that after the age of 60, principals can get an extension of only two more years. The board's secretary   has written to schools saying that the candi date “may be considered for a further extension of service for two years after attaining the age of superannuation subject to meritorious service, impeccable character, sound health, good leadership, and outstanding results throughout“. While the board leaves a window open for the principal to get an extension, it as mandated that such a proposal will again have to be routed to it.
 
 TOI has learnt that this entire exercise is focusing on schools where the principal and management belong to the same family .
 
 A senior academician said, “The board is looking for such `family' schools. In fact, we heard that some official from CBSE was making discreet inquiries with principals if they are aware of such institutions in the state.“
 
