MUMBAI:  , the globe-trotting CEO of Indian software major TCS, is also a world traveller when it comes to running long-distance races. From Berlin to Amsterdam, from Boston to Tokyo and from Mumbai to New York, Chandra, as people close to him call him, has run more than a dozen marathons in these cities since he took to running about seven years ago. 

 Running a $68-billion company, which is also the most valued one in India, needs professional dedication and stamina — that Chandra has demonstrated well since he took over as TCS’ MD in 2009. He demonstrates the same traits while running marathons, during which one has to cover 42.2 kilometres in one go. “He (Chandra) is one of the most dedicated runners who trained under me,” said Praful Uchil, a trainer for several top corporate leaders who have taken up long-distance running. “Whenever he’s in town, he’s the first to hit the track, at about 5am, and trains for about one and half hours without a break,” Uchil, who works for Striders Miles, said.
 
 It was in 2011 — a couple of years after Chandra started running — that he realised the need for a professional trainer. And that’s when he met Uchil, and the student-teacher relationship has blossomed over the years. 
 
 There have been instances during marathons that showed Chandra’s go-getter mentality. It was the 2015 New York marathon when Uchil, Chandra and another runner decided to run at a certain pace. “We had decided to follow a plan. Conditions were cold and windy, and not the ideal setup for running, especially over all the bridges on the route,” said Uchil.
 
 “Our plan was to run slow and take the race thereafter. But as soon as the hooter went off, he (Chandra) took off. It was so atypical of him. We tried to keep up with him, and then the two of us decided that we should just let him go. That’s how he is. When he decides something, he has to achieve it,” the trainer said. “But that doesn’t mean he does his own stuff during training. He is one of the best students and always listens and follows our instructions to the T.”
 
 Chandra’s passion for running has also prompted TCS to bid for sponsorship rights for some of the marquee marathons around the world. Currently, TCS is the title sponsor for New York and Amsterdam marathons, a rare accomplishment for an Indian company. It’s also the associate sponsor for Mumbai marathon. Some of the leaders from India Inc feel this to be a great marketing strategy for the software major since such sponsorships give TCS a huge visibility among global audience.
 
 
