PATNA: Real estate sector in Patna, which boomed after Nitish Kumar came to power in 2005 but had been stagnating for almost four years since 2012, seems set to revive with the Patna Municipal Corporation ( ) resuming the process of map approvals.

 Sources said while 44 maps of residential and commercial buildings were okayed last year, the maps sanctioned till June this year numbered 17.
 
 According to PMC’s director (urban planning) and chief engineer Ashok Kumar, the corporation received 350 maps this year. While nine maps have been rejected, 324 ones are in the process of approval and the rest have been approved.
 
 In the year 2016, the PMC received 141 maps. While 44 were okayed and ten rejected, the remaining 87 maps are in the process of approval. 
 
 Asked about the slow pace of approvals, PMC’s commissioner Abhishek Singh said the process involved multi-level scrutiny so as to prevent illegal constructions. “We are at least permitting constructions which had been hanging fire since December 2012,” he said.
 
 Singh said 30% of the projects submitted to the PMC had one or another shortcoming pertaining to either inadequate width of the road to the plot or violation of building bylaws. “Low-risk projects like residential construction and G+3 (ground floor and three floors above it) are being approved faster,” he said.
 
 Official sources said the state government had stopped approving building maps in Patna from December 2012 to August 2015 for various reasons, including non-approval of the master plan of Patna. 
 
 The state urban development and housing department in August 2015 gave its go-ahead to the PMC to approve building maps in accordance with the Bihar Building Bylaws- 2014. However, it was only in late 2016 that the online process of submission and approval of maps began. 
 
 “Realty business in and around Patna suffered an estimated loss of around Rs 40,000 crore, which also adversely affected around 300 axillary industries, during the three years when the maps were not being approved,” said Builders’ Association of India vice-president Sachin Chandra.
 
 Though Chandra expressed happiness over the resumption of the process of map approval, he rued the pace was slow and needed to be expedited. “A realtor spends no less than Rs eight to 10 crore on buying a plot for construction purposes. The huge sum remains blocked till the project map is approved,” he said.
 
 
