BHOPAL: Four days after rats gnawed at the fingers of a newborn at a government-run healthcare centre in Shivpuri district of  , another horror has been reported from  ,   where a woman’s eye was found missing when her body was taken out of the morgue.

 While woman’s family members suspected, her eye was gouged by the hospital for transplant without intimation, hospital authorities blamed it on geckos (lizards). A similar incident reported from Hamidia hospital in the state capital had invited the wrath of chief minister   in December 2016.
 
 Raksha Katare, 26, resident of Gole Ka Mandir area had consumed some poisonous substance after a domestic feud on Thursday and was admitted to JAH hospital where she died during treatment on Friday evening. Her body was shifted to the morgue for autopsy scheduled next morning.
 
 On Saturday, when her family arrived and claimed her body after post-mortem they noticed that one of her eyes were missing. When her father inquired about the missing eye hospital authorities failed to give a satisfactory answer. This led to suspicion.
 
 “She was admitted at JAH hospital for treatment. We are not sure if she consumed poison herself or was fed by someone. Today when we went to the post-mortem room and got her body, we found that her right eye was missing. When we asked doctors, they said lizards must have taken it away,” Raksha’s uncle N P Awasthi told media. They left the hospital after a few hours. Senior authorities including the hospital superintendent did not turn up at the hospital to meet them.
 
 JAH hospital had been in the centre of controversy over multiple issues in the last four years. In one of the recent incident, when doctors allegedly junked donated corneas. The matter was reported to the MCI and a high-level inquiry was conducted. Three senior medicos were suspended by divisional commissioner while the medical college dean and JAH hospital superintendent escaped action. Investigations revealed that doctors had conducted only single eye transplant in six years though 80 organs have been donated in the same period. It is alleged that top hospital authorities escape action because of their ‘high contacts’.
 
 In December 2016, appalled over the incident of rodents nibbling a woman's corpse in the premises of state-run Hamidia Hospital, additional chief secretary of   department and the dean of   (GMC) were removed by the chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan.
 
 Last week, rats had gnawed at the fingers of a newborn at a government-run healthcare centre in Shivpuri district. The baby girl was born to Sunita Bai, a resident of Shivpuri’s Kolaras area, around midnight on May 14. Her family says hospital staff put her on the floor, saying there was no vacant bed in the hospital. On Tuesday, she suddenly spotted wounds on the child’s little finger. The family says doctors ignored their complaint until they took it up with senior officials. The mother and infant were then shifted to the paediatric unit.
 
 
