FATEHGARH SAHIB: Once an imposing landmark built in the shape of a 17th-century ship, the legendary "Jahazi haveli" of Diwan   is fighting for survival, despite the role it is said to have played in Sikh history 300 years ago.

 Today, the crumbling haveli could well be mistaken for one of the many ruins of history, even though Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has started restoration work.
 
 Diwan Todar Mal, an ardent follower of the tenth Sikh Master, Guru  , is said to have sold the haveli, his home, to buy land for the cremation of the two younger sons of Guru Gobind Singh,   and Fateh Singh, aged 7 and 9 and their grandmother Mata Gujari, by covering it with gold coins.
 
 Zorawar Singh and Fateh Singh were executed on the orders of Nawab Wazir Khan, governor of Sirhind on December 12, 1705 and Mata Gujri died of shock.
 
 Despite its significance, the haveli, located on the western end of Fatehgarh Sahib, has been facing neglect. The SGPC took over the building in 2008 but intermittent renovation work has failed to ensure restoration of the original structure.
 
 Over the years, the ground floor of the building was buried underground and is yet to be excavated. Only two rooms have been rebuilt in the last five years. Efforts to strengthen the dilapidated structure from the base and then reconstruct it are visible, but the project is hanging fire. Temporary support pillars in the two rooms are yet to be removed as work appears to have come to a standstill because of lack of funds.
 
 Maintenance work began in 2010, after SGPC took over the building. The contract for restoration was given to well-known Muslim craftsmen from Bihar through a Delhi-based company involved in the restoration of ancient structures.
 
 The corroded structure is on the verge of complete collapse and parts of the building have long disappeared. Restoration experts are of the view that the original structure should be preserved without alteration. Joginder Singh, one of the caretakers of the haveli said it was being reconstructed in accordance with 17th-century architecture.
 
 "Not much could be achieved till date as it is complicated work which needs a high level of dexterity," said Joginder Singh, caretaker of the haveli. A S Chawla, general secretary, SGPC said, "There are plans to hand over the next phase of restoration of the haveli to local Muslim craftsmen involved in maintaining heritage buildings. Two rooms were re-constructed while work on other parts of the building will start soon," he said.
 
 In line with modes of construction followed back in the 17th century, no cement is being used. The bricks, which are known by the name, "Sirhind," are tiles half the width of bricks used today. The haveli caretaker said bricks being used now are 17th-century tiles taken from other buildings of Sirhind which have collapsed completely. "With each passing year, collection of these bricks becomes more difficult. As restoration is to be done using these bricks, work is interrupted from time to time," he said, adding that the considerable delay in release of funds has also affected restoration work.
 
 
 
 
 Todar Mal, a local businessman, was diwan in the court of Nawab Wazir Khan, governor of Sirhind. Still, he was an ardent follower of the Sikh gurus.
 
 On December 12, 1705, Mughal authorities executed the sahibzadas for not renouncing their faith and refused to give land for their cremation. Todar Mal, a wealthy merchant, covered the ground needed for cremation with gold coins and purchased land from Chaudhuri Atta. It is believed that Todar Mal sold his Jahazi Haveli and a few other properties to buy the small piece of land.
 
 But there is no evidence of the sale and successor of Jahazi haveli. The break in the past was precursor to the haveli losing its relevance.
 
 
 
 
 In 2003, the decaying haveli was taken over by a private charitable trust run by family members of then Fatehgarh Sahib ADC. On April 29, 2008, SGPC took over the heritage building from the private trust.
 
 Now, Jahazi Haveli is registered in the name of Guru Gobind Singh's mother, Mata Gujri and her two grandsons, Sahibzadas Zorawar Singh and Fateh Singh.
 
 "The then ADC made a private charitable trust by the name of Punjab Virasat Charitable Trust, Mohali and made his wife and other relatives its members. On learning about this, the SGPC wrote to the trust to get the building back. But it took more than two years for the building to be handed back to the SGPC," said Amarjit Singh, then manager of Gurudwara Fatehgarh Sahib, through whom the building was registered. 
 
 Before the private trust took over the building, land measuring two kanals and 17 marlas, on which Todar Mal's mansion is situated, was shown in the name of Balraj Singh and Shivraj Singh of Harnam Nagar. It was learnt that the trust transferred the haveli in its name without  
 
 
 
 Diwan Todar Mal secured quick promotions by dint of merit and rose to be the "amin" and "faujdar" of Sirhind. Historian  , in his book, "Sirhind through the ages," describes Todar Mal as a businessman from Sirhind who got title of 'Rai' along with the 'diwani' and other titles. In the 14th year of Shah Jahan's reign, the faujdari of 'Lakhi Jangal' was also conferred upon him. Todar Mal was remarkably successful and in 1648, he earned the title of Raja.
 
