KOLKATA: The state government is all set to change the character of   following the  's model. Education minister Partha Chatterjee on Saturday echoed what chief minister Mamata Banerjee had said a few weeks ago in an interview with a private television channel. 

 "Students' first priority should be their studies. The union activities should come after that. We don't want students with 2%-3%college attendance to lead student bodies. We are taking a relook at this and help students' unions follow the St Xavier's model," Chatterjee said while speaking at a programme at   at Garia. The minister, however, said the government didn't want to impose its views on students. "We want you (student representatives) to come up with suggestions before the government firms up its decision," said the minister.
 
 Taking the cue from the CM who described the yearly students' union elections as "a waste of energy", Chatterjee said the colleges in   might follow the system in place (apolitical students' union) at St Xavier's as the model. At St Xavier's, student organisations with political affiliations have no role to play in union elections. Students decide how they want to contest the polls, independent of leaders outside. "I think holding college union elections every year is a waste of energy. I will ask the education minister to consider if the St Xavier's model can be adopted. The Xavier's model is good," Mamata said in March. Governor Keshari Nath Tripathi had also lauded the Xavier's model.
 
 The higher education department has also issued guidelines for constitution of college governing bodies. The government under the new rules clearly states that employees and students of the government-aided colleges will have no right to elect the president of the college governing body. Instead, the government will nominate the president - a person interested in education either from among the governing body members or from outside. The eligibility clause for nomination of the president may not be a foolproof system to prevent politicians and local MLAs like   from occupying the post, but the government's holding the key is likely to make a difference, say educationists. The government will have two of its representatives in each college governing body and the   Higher Education Council will also have one nominee who will act as the eyes and ears of the government.
 
