NEW DELHI: Hospitals cannot abandon a patient brought to them in a critical condition because of unavailability of life-saving facility. They will have to ensure that the patient is shifted to the right facility. 

 Chief minister Arvind   issued directions to this effect on Sunday, two days after TOI reported the death of a newborn after the family failed to get a ventilator bed in four state-run hospitals. 
 
 Kejriwal took cognisance of the report titled ‘Newborn dies as family gets no ventilator bed in 4 hosps’ and directed health minister   to submit a concrete action plan within a week to ensure that critical patients requiring life support don’t have to struggle to find a hospital.
 
 “Health minister, call a report from all hospitals concerned ... devise a system – and discuss with me before month-end,” Kejriwal wrote in his file noting to Jain. Sources said the primary objective of the proposed action plan will be to ensure that live data of functional critical care facilities in all the Delhi government hospitals is readily and easily available. 
 
 Officials said it has been noticed in a number of cases that family members, relatives or friends of a patient in a critical condition are turned away, with hospitals citing excuses of either lack of facilities or non-availability of beds. And then the ordeal starts for the family as they don’t know where such a facility will be available. 
 
 The family members are forced to rush between different hospitals till any hospital, if at all, agrees to admit such a patient. “It is unacceptable...helpless family members keep running from pillar to post and critical time, in which a life could be saved, is often lost. In the case of the newborn girl, born in   on Wednesday, the family members alleged she required ventilator support which wasn’t available there. 
 
 “They did nothing to arrange the same. I went to Lok Nayak, Chacha Nehru Baal Chikitsalaya and Guru Tegh Bahadur Hospital. All of them refused admission citing lack of ICU beds,”  , the deceased child’s grandfather said, adding that the newborn died at around 4am on Thursday. The Delhi high court took suo motu notice of the TOI report. 
 
 A bench of acting Chief Justice   and Justice C   also recommended putting all information on bed occupancy and other facilities online so that patients know where the nearest best medical assistance could be availed. 
 
 “Perhaps, if this information was available to the family of the newborn ...the life of the child could have been saved,” the bench observed. 
 
 It said that the report “highlights difficulties faced by the patients for want of information regarding facilities and capacity of the hospitals and also the status of utilisation of these facilities on any public platform,” the court observed, adding that such information would “obviate” distress to public and “ensure availability” of medical help at the earliest. 
 
 The bench issued notice to the Centre, the Delhi government and the three corporations, who run hospitals in Delhi, and asked the authorities concerned to examine the issue and file their report within four weeks. The matter was fixed for hearing on November 21. 
 
