BENGALURU: Even as tension in Mangaluru and   taluk simmers, top leaders of the   and the BJP are engaged in a slanging match over "communal and marriage politics." 

 A taunt by chief minister Siddaramaiah in   on Tuesday that the BJP instead of indulging in drama of visiting Dalit houses and having food there, should demonstrate the concern by making them part of the family-marrying off their girls to upper caste boys- triggered the verbal duel. 
 
  BJP MP Shobha Karandlaje hit back by asking: "Do you know who   president G Parameshwara (his wife is an Iyengar) and party's working president Dinesh Gundu Rao (his wife is a Muslim) are married to?'' 
 
 In a hurriedly convened news conference on Wednesday, Rao hit back at Karandlaje saying: "Everyone knows who I am married to? She is a Muslim. Has that sent a wrong message? If I had fallen in love with a Dalit girl in 1994, I would have married her. Karandlaje still has an opportunity to do so."
 
  His wife Tabu took to   where she said: "It is no secret that I was born a Muslim and my husband Dinesh Gundu Rao, a Brahmin. We have been happily married for over two decades now and not once has the issue of community crossed our minds. We live a perfectly balanced life, though neither of us has converted...respecting all religions is a practice followed by us... We represent the unity in diversity that India stands for. As a homemaker and a mother of two daughters, I take strong umbrage to Karandlaje trespassing into our private lives for her narrow political gains. The fact that she has derisively referred to our family in a totally unconnected issue indicates that her sole intention is to create communal disharmony in society." 
 
  Karandlaje went a step ahead and called the Congress government headed by chief minister Siddaramaiah as 'Shandara samaja' (group of impotents) for not being able to check the communal flare up in Mangaluru. Her colleague, BJP MLA Vijaya Kumar said: "The CM should be welcomed with a garland of slippers." 
 
 Reacting to this, Siddaramaiah in Bengaluru said: "I am not one such. This shows their culture. With the use of such words, the BJP is trying to stoke communal violence for political gains.'" 
 
