MUMBAI: A one-in-the-world   is responsible for Egyptian woman   (36) weighing over 500 kg until recently. She is considered to be have been one of the heaviest women in the world. 

 Results of Eman's gene study analyzing 91 different types of genes related to obesity, found that she has a mutation in the LEPR gene (the c.1055G>A, p.(Cys352Tyr) variant). She has another genetic mutation, but it isn't contributing to her obesity.
 
 Doctors of Saifee Hospital, Charni Road, where she was admitted on February 11, told TOI on Wednesday that the gene controls hormone leptin or 'satiety hormone'. 
 
 Bariatric surgeon Dr Muffazal Lakdawala, who operated on Eman on March 7, said, "Because of this leptin receptor deficiency from early life, this patient's brain has perceived that she is constantly starving. That has led her to constantly seek food, store it avidly in her body as fat and conserve energy."
 
 Experts from the Universities of Washington and Cambridge consulted for Eman's diagnosis said this LEPR gene variant was previously detected in an American who didn't have any leptin deficiency disease. While this patient had the mutation in only of the LEPR genes (genes always in pairs), Eman has it in both. Incidentally, 
 
 Eman's other genetic mutation (in the SDCCAG8 gene) is of "uncertain significance" and unlikely to have caused obesity, ruled the expert panel. Such mutations are usually seen in people born of consanguineous marriages. Eman's parents were first cousins, said the Saifee Hospital doctors.
 
 Regarding her March 7 bariatric surgery, Dr Lakdawala told TOI that while it has had some beneficial effects, it would not help deal with the underlying problem. The team is now seeking to enrol her in a global clinical trial to tackle the leptin receptor problem. This trial can begin only after six months as she has undergone bariatric surgery. 
 
  An expert from the  , Dr David Cummings, said, "Although Eman has abundant leptin in her bloodstream, it can't bind to its receptor and tell the brain it's there. Now that the genetic reason for her obesity is known, however, it is possible that special medicinal therapy might allow her to continue to lose weight in the future." 
 
 Dr Cummings said, theoretically, Eman should respond to these new medicines. "But if that medical approach isn't sufficient, Dr Lakdawala might consider performing a second, more powerful bariatric operation."
 
 However, Dr Lakdawala has another short-term goal. "My immediate aim is to get her to undergo a CT scan so that we can find out why she has seizures," said Dr Lakdwala.
 
 
