MYSURU: Following the setback in the nationwide ranking of the cleanest cities, the district administration, which has taken up various initiatives to promote tourism, has launched a massive drive to curtail the use of plastic carry bags in the city. 

  Along with Mysuru City Corporation ( ) on Thursday, the officials led by deputy commissioner D Randeep, conducted a major drive to seize plastic carry bags raided shops at APMC yard, off Mysuru-Nanjangud highway. 
 
  The raid was conducted after receiving complaints from the public that shops in APMC in Bandipalya are using plastic in large quantities. More than 20 men from MCC's Abhaya team, along with  , MCC commissioner G Jagadeesha and health officer H Ramachandra conducted the raid and seized five tonnes and 50 kgs of plastics items. 
 
  Health officer Ramachandra told TOI that they have managed to seize six truckloads of plastics including carry bags, spoons, cups and other materials worth lakhs of rupees. "We started the raid at 8 am and continued to seize the plastic materials for five hours. The entire task ended by 1 pm. By that time, we filled six trucks and three Abhaya vehicles will plastic covers. This was the biggest plastic seize ever in my service," he said. 
 
  Some of the shops owners who got a tip-off about the raid, did not open their shops. DC Randeep suspecting that some of the locked shops possessed plastic covers, was sealed. "We have sealed three shops. The owners have been intimated on the action," Ramachandra said and added, "The plastic materials which were seized from the shops have come from manufacturing units in Bengaluru," he said. 
 
  Meanwhile, MCC officials have given the details of the raid on plastic covers to   authorities and directed them to file complaint against the shop owners. 
 
  On Wednesday, MCC officials raided several shops across the city and seized 123 kgs of plastic bags and sealed four shops. 
 
  Punish those who waste water: DC 
 
  Deputy commissioner D Randeep directed Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) officials to take stern action against people who waste water in its jurisdiction. 
 
  DC Randeep, who chaired a progress review meeting of local bodies on Thursday, said that even though there is drinking water problem in the district, some people are found unnecessarily wasting water. 
 
  "MCC authorities should monitor and take action against people who waste water. The officials should also create awareness among public on saving and conserving water and installing rain water harvesting at their houses," he said. 
 
  MCC deputy commissioner (development) BK   said that the reduction in the supply of water from Kabini reservoir has caused scarcity for drinking water in the city. The repair work at pump station has added to the woes. "In another two days, the problem will be resolved," he said. 
 
