RAJKOT/AHMEDABAD: At a time when mob lynching by self-proclaimed   has created an atmosphere of fear, a Muslim man from Kutch has come forward for the cause of the cow protection. 

 Making a unique bid for cow protection, Jabar Jat (27) from Kudbay village of Nakhtrana taluka has announced that he would sit on fast for 48 hours beginning July 20 at Kutch district collectorate.
 
 Jat is a cattle-rearer and owns 16 cows and nine buffaloes. In a letter to the district collector, he demanded grazing land in each taluka of Kutch. He also demanded framing a law that mandates every farmer to keep two bullocks and that government give them subsidy. The state government should bear 50% cost of each gaushala and it must buy fertilizer made of cow urine and cow dung from the farmers. The state government must take initiative for conservation of stray cows and cow progeny, he demanded.
 
 Talking to TOI, Jat said, “In the last two to three years, cow has become a tool to spread hatred, which is hitting the business. Besides, no gau rakshak himself rears a cow and merely indulges in hooliganism in the name of cow protection. In such scenario, no one from the   brigade ever talked about welfare of stray cows. So, I decided to take up this cause,” added Jat.
 
 The gau rakshaks, who are lynching innocents, must rear at least one cow or cow progeny to justify their cause.
 
 Jat said that he also wanted to send out a message of communal harmony by sitting on fast for the welfare of cows. “I want to tell the gau rakshaks that let us sit together for gau raksha because killing in the name of cow will lead us to a barbaric society, which will never serve the true purpose,” he said.
 
 Salimkhan Pathan, convener of the Muslim wing of RSS-Rashtriya Muslim Manch’ (RMM) in Gujarat, said, “We believe in promotion of gau raksha and appreciate the efforts of Jat. We will urge the state government to come up with such infrastructure for welfare of stray cows.” 
 
 Vallabh Kathiria, chairman of Gujarat State Gauseva Ayog and  , said, “The state government will make efforts to increase economic viability of cows so that people will not let their bovines loose in the city. Once they start earning more from cow dung and cow urine, they will keep their cows at home instead of letting them stray on the roads.”
 
