The   (WIM), women's wing of   (SDPI) has alleged that Shivashakti Charitable Trust, Tripunithura, has been carrying out atrocities against Hindu women who have married outside their religion, as part of a planned `Ghar Wapsi' campaign.

 WIM state president   alleged that recently a woman named Athira, who recently converted back to Hinduism after embracing Islam, was living at the yoga centre, Shivashakthi Yoga Vidya Kendra at Kandanadu, Tripunithura, run by the trust and she converted due to the pressure from the institution. “The inmates are being subjected to physical and mental harassment at the institution.There is a torture room on the trust premises, “ she alleged.
 
 She said a petition filed by one Dr   before the high court stated that women who appraoch the centre for counselling have faced atrocities including sexual harassment during the sessions. The aim of the institution is to bring the women back to the Hindu fold. “The petition states that around 65 women living in the yoga centre were subjected to sexual harassment, “ she said.
 
 Meanwhile, Udayamperoor police have received a complaint from a woman, a Kannur native, against the yoga centre. As per the complaint , the woman, who is an advocate, was detained at the centre for nearly a month. The woman was married to a man belonging to a different religion and she was taken to the centre by her brother-in-law (sister's husband) Manu. The complaint also said that yoga master Manoj alias Guruji and his aides Sreejesh, Sujith, Sumitha and Lakshmi forced her to return to Hindu religion.
 
 Following the complaint, Udayamperoor panchayat has issued closure notice to the yoga centre. “We have issued closure notice as it doesn't have licence issued by the panchayat, “ said panchayat president John Jacob.
 
 It has been functioning in a residential building and more than 45 inmates are living in congestion. “We have got many complaints against the centre including missing cases of inmates, “ the panchayat president noted.
 
 However, neighbours have never noticed anything unusual about the institution. “We never heard any cries or screams. The inmates and tutors often celebrate special occasions like Independence Day and other festivals, “ said Biju, who lives next door. “They impart training in yoga and also offer counselling to inmates who were brought by their parents, “ said Anilkumar, another resident of the area.
 
 By Monday afternoon, parents of most of the inmates arrived to take them back home.Now just five or six inmates are at the centre,which is under police protection.
 
 “Earlier we got an anonymous complaint against the centre. The complaint filed by the Kannur native is a genuine one, “ said P S Shiju, Tripunithura circle inspector.
 
 On Monday morning, Youth Congress activists took out a protest march to the yoga centre, which was stopped by the police.
 
