HYDERABAD: Pointing to an uncertainty over continuation of the alliance between the TDP and   in the 2019 elections, Andhra Pradesh chief minister Chandrababu Naidu made it clear on Wednesday that the TDP will decide on alliances in both AP and Telangana just before the polls are held. 

 "The TDP will decide about tie-ups with other parties only before the next elections and not before," Naidu said while addressing the Telangana TDP Mahanadu, the party's first in the new state, at Exhibition Grounds on Wednesday.
 
 Naidu's statement comes in the backdrop of confusion over whether the TDP will continue to be an ally of the BJP with leaders from both sides muddling the picture with their comments over the past few days. "The TDP is in a unique position. In AP, we are in power. In Telangana, we are the opposition party. At the Centre, we are an alliance partner of the ruling party. Political developments will keep happening. We should not rush into making decisions," he said.
 
 Naidu also took pains to explain to the party cadre that he has not abandoned it in Telangana. 
 
 For the party leaders and cadre, wondering over the past year or so whether they and TDP had any future in Telangana, Naidu's assurances that he would never abandon his party or its workers, were received by loud cheers by the few thousand party workers in the audience and a slew of leaders seated on the dais.
 
 Responding to pleas from some TDP leaders to provide a direction to the party in Telangana, Naidu dug deep into the party history by saying, "It is in Hyderabad that the TDP was born. And it was not born in pursuit of power but to uphold the Telugu pride and serve the people. It was the TDP that led development in Telangana and in Hyderabad. I will not leave you to fend for yourself. In fact, I will visit the city frequently from now on," Naidu said amidst cheers.
 
 In an apparent attempt to regain his legacy over the city that the TDP feels is being usurped by the ruling TRS, Naidu said, "Hyderabad of today is my brainchild. You are the proof of that. We struggled and worked hard to build it. When you look at Hi-Tec City, the   airport, Cyberabad, the ORR and even the Metro (rail), you are looking at what I did for the city."
 
 "There was a time when I walked from office to office, door to door in New York requesting people to come and invest in Hyderabad. What you see today in the city is a result of efforts and hard work like that," Naidu said.
 
 Taking aim at the TRS on issues related to irrigation, Naidu said it was the TDP government that laid the strong foundations for irrigation in the state. Devadula, Nettempadu, A Madhava Reddy lift irrigation project and   were started by us. "It was the   government that came after us which neglected them," he said.
 
 Declaring that each party worker is a 'Bobbili Puli' and a 'Kondaveeti Simham', Naidu said despite being in the opposition in Telangana, each of them have been carrying the party flag without flinching in the face of several challenges. "Your excitement here today makes this Mahanadu much bigger, much more important than the Mahanadus we held in united AP," he said.
 
 It is in Hyderabad that the TDP was born. And it was not born in pursuit of power but to uphold the Telugu pride and serve the people. It was the TDP that led development in Telangana and Hyderabad. I will not leave you to fend for yourself. In fact, I will visit the city frequently from now on
 
 It is in Hyderabad that the TDP was born. And it was not born in pursuit of power but to uphold the Telugu pride and serve the people. It was the TDP that led development in Telangana and Hyderabad. I will not leave you to fend for yourself. In fact, I will visit the city frequently from now on.
 
