BHOPAL: Suffering on account of lack of clarity,   and helplessness forced residents facing eviction from Ahata Rustam Khan to stage a protest for the third consecutive day on Monday. The Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) squad on Saturday and Sunday removed commercial structures to pave way for   from   to Depot Chouraha. 

 Angry over alleged insensitivity of the civic body squad to handling of issue, angry residents confronted the BMC staffers near Polytechnic Square. Dissatisfied with response of civic body staff led to a heated discussion and later a minor clash between locals, mostly women and civic body staff. Senior BMC officials were not present on the spot when residents clashed with the civic body squad. 
 
 Upon learning about the ruckus, Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) commissioner Chhavi Bhardwaj reached the area. “We have given people another week to shift to temporary housing at Jawahar Chowk,” she said. Earlier, Tuesday was the last day for eviction notice. 
 
 BMC ward corporator Sabista Zaki argued with civic body officials over the way in which demolition was being handled. Later in the evening, Zaki approached   Human Rights Commission (MPHRC) over the eviction and demolition of private houses for construction of smart road. 
 
 In last two days, the BMC demolished around 100 semi-commercial properties in the area. Residential rooms are next on the demolition list, which would displace around 800 people, including women and children. 
 
 “More time is given for eviction as many of affected are children and have school examination,” Bhardwaj said. 
 
 Affected people argued with the BMC commissioner over lack of clarity and transparency in the process. 
 
 “Besides politics, there is human suffering to all this. There is no clarity from BMC over its plans. How long would we have to live in a transit camp,” said Hina Rizvi who along with her sister Bushra waited for BMC officials to explain their plans.
 
 “We understand our house will be demolished. Shouting slogans will not provide a solution. I wanted to meet the BMC commissioner, but other officials did not let us meet,” said Bushra. Both sisters are college students and conversed in English with BMC officials, who were shocked by their direct questions. “We can help you only if the family first shifts to transit camp,” said a BMC official to their queries. “This uncertainty is creating more problems. There’s nothing smart about this project or people,” she said.
 
 Contractual staffers from smart city wing were seen carrying out a survey of affected people. The survey will help affected people get permanent house under the ‘housing for all scheme’ of the Union government. However, no time limit is set within which the affected families would be allotted permanent housing.
 
 *** 
 Unsmart move, BMC conducts double survey
 
 BMC officials were pulled up by municipal commissioner Chhavi Bhardwaj for lack of coordination. Sources said Bhardwaj termed it ‘complete lack of application of logic’. The BMC had already conducted a site survey of the affected on Sunday. It would have been the basis for allocation of housing to affected families in transit camp at Jawahar Chowk . However, under directions of senior BMC official, another survey was conducted by BMC staffers, a move resented by locals. BMC staffers were unprepared to answer any query of locals. In many instances, residents turned away the survey team.
 
 ***
 
 Hot tin sheds await displaced 
 
 As temperature begins to rise, over 115 families face prospect of staying in temporary location in harsh summer conditions. 
 
 Covered on all four sides nearly the size of a car garage, new homes of the affected would be like boiling pot in summer season. Describing it as a car garage, a resident, Deepak said, “It has a GI sheet, no fans or room for ventilation. It is fit for parking a car or a jeep.” Deepak is one of the affected living in Ahata Rustam Khan. 
 
 On Monday with temperature hovering around 40 degree Celsius, the transit camp at Jawahar Chowk on an open land were a shade less than oven-like condition. Spread over three locations, there are about 190 such tin sheds that will be given to displaced families. 
 
 The empty room comes with two power connections. Drinking water tap is shared between four sheds. Washroom and other facilities are common. Cooking for women will be a difficult task as the accommodation lacks ventilation.
 
