HYDERABAD: One of the four women shifted to   from the   four days ago after she developed `sepsis', is critical, said doctors on Tuesday . Twentythree-year-old   was also suffering from   and severe respiratory distress when doctors at the maternity hospital performed a cesarean-section on her.Rajitha has now been moved into the   (RICU) at Gandhi Hospital.

 “When she was received at the Gandhi Hospital here she was already infected with dengue, sepsis and was experiencing respiratory distress.The sepsis made her condition critical. Her platelet count too was very low at 18,000,“ said Dr P Shravan Kumar, superintendent, Gandhi Hospital. He said, “For the last three-and-ahalf days we have been strugg ling to ensure that her condition improves. Doctors are supervising her condition round the clock. This morning too her condition was critical, but by afternoon she started showing some improvement. We are hoping for the best now.“ Rajitha's haemoglobin count was a meagre five when she was shifted to Gandhi.Normally , this count among women is in the 12-14 range.
 
 Rajitha of course will need continuous monitoring. “Due to her low platelet count, Rajit ha had to be administered blood transfusion. Since the components weren't available at the hospital, alternative arrangements had to be made.Even medicines are being brought from outside,“ said Ramanatham, the patient's brot her-in-law.
 
 Meanwhile, an inquiry in the case involving Rajitha and three others who were moved to Gandhi on developing sepsis -allegedly on being administered fungus-infected saline -is currently under way.
 
 Baby at ashram as dad runs around
 
 As the young mother continues to battle for her life within the confines of the RICU, Rajitha's family is fighting a fierce battle, for existence, on the outside.
 
 Caught in the midst of the crisis, her five-day-old baby boy is at the Seva Bharathi Aashram within the hospital premises as his father and grandparents have no choice but to stay put at Gandhi to keep a close watch on Rajitha.
 
 The patient's husband, D Jaipal, a cab driver, has been running between hospitals, blood banks (to get necessary blood components) and shops to cater to his wife's medical needs. His child's food and sanitary requirements are another matter.With the doctors giving them some hope about his wife's condition improving over the next few days, Jaipal is mulling taking the child home on Wednesday.
 
