GURUGRAM: Power   DHBVN will prepare ground to light up almost all New Gurgaon   before August 15 this year, officials told TOI on Monday.

 Currently, there are 79 villages across New Gurgaon. All of them receive only 13 hours of   in a day. The reason is that consumers on Rural Domestic Supply feeders (RDS) do not use meters and resort to direct hooking as a means to draw power. “As a result of which our power supply to the rural areas goes unaccounted for,” said KC Aggarwal, superintendent engineer, DHBVN. “We have been suffering tremendous line losses amounting to crores.”
 
 Aggarwal said the discom had decided to finish the process in four steps. “First all the defective meters would be replaced,” he said. “There are old electro-mechanical meters that we need to replace. As second part, we will replace them with modern electronic meters. It will be followed by relocating the meter out of the premises of consumers. In rural areas, meters are inside the consumers’ houses making them susceptible to getting tampered with. We will be relocating them first so that we collect proper reading.”
 
 Aggarwal said they will also replace bare conductors with insulated cables.
 
 There are also 5-6 villages in Gurgaon with no electricity at all. “We will also give them the connections,” he said.
 
 The scheme under which discom hopes to executes this milestone is Mhara Gaon Jagmag Gaon launched by chief minister   in July 2016. The scheme hopes to give all villages 24 hours of power supply in four phases, but there are strings attached. 
 
 On each feeder where the scheme will be applied, the line losses should come down below 20% so that discom stops incurring losses for the unaccounted for power units. 
 
 The scheme is being implemented across the Haryana state and will benefit 83 rural domestic supply feeders. It shall cover 310 villages in total. Discom officials told TOI they had made all the necessary interventions in almost 15 villages in new Gurgaon. “We have only 63 villages pending now,” Aggarwal said.
 
 Official documents with TOI reveal that almost 8 RDS feeders in Gurgaon will be lightened under this scheme. 
 
 These are: 11 kV Teelki, 11 kV Darbaripur, 11kV Rithoj, 11 kV Nimoth 1 and 11 kV Nimoth 2, Berka Feeder, Harchandpur and Chamanpura.
 
