KOLKATA: The   Sadar police has submitted the chargesheet against triple murder accused  .

 Though he allegedly killed his parents as well as girlfriend Akansha Sharma, the Bankura police's chargesheet pertained only to Akansha's death as she was a resident of Bankura.The Indore police have filed a separate chargesheet for his parents' murder, suspected to have taken place there. “We filed the chargesheet, keeping the April 30 deadline in mind.We will submit a supplementary chargesheet soon,“ said Bankura SP Sukhendu Hira.
 
 In the chargesheet, which ran into 565 pages and cited 31 witnesses, Das has been charged with murder, kidnapping and concealing evidence. The police said they included Udayan's confessional statements recorded before a magistrate on their list of evidence. But investigators said they were yet to get their hands on the forensic reports of two crucial pieces of evidence: the first were the Whatsapp messages Das reportedly sent to Akansha's parents and acquaintances, pretending to be her, when he had already allegedly killed her. Second was the DNA report to establish the bones recovered from Das's   home was that of Akansha. her remains were found in a “tomb“ built inside Das's home. “Both are pending with the central forensic lab. We will submit the supplementary chargesheet as soon as we get them,“ said an officer.
 
 Reacting to the accusation of delay , given at least three police forces were pursuing the reports with the CFSL, an officer said, “We were ready with our details at least a month earlier. We waited beyond 60 days.But as we want to keep Das in jail custody , we decided to file initial chargesheet in 82 days.“
 
 Das allegedly killed Akansha at his Bhopal home on July 15, 2016, after the Bankura girl learnt about him murdering his parents. Akansha had told   she would return to Bankura on July 23 and divulge that he had killed his parents, sold their property off for huge money and that he was not a   employee residing in the US, as he posed to be.The motive behind Akansha's murder was, claimed the Bankura police, the “pressing need to hide Das's previous crimes“.
 
 “From Das's almirahs at his Bhopal home, she found fake passports of his parents, Indrani and V K Das, originally from  's Salkia. Das tried to convince her of his innocence but later, confessed to his crime. When he realized she would not listen, he plotted her murder,“ Hira added.
 
