NEW DELHI: The police have initiated an inquest into the alleged suicide of a 29-year-old   research scholar, J Muthukrishnan, who hung himself from a ceiling fan at his friend's house in south Delhi’s Munirka Vihar on Monday evening.

 As no suicide note has been found, the cops are scanning his Facebook posts, mobile phone and call records to ascertain why he resorted to the extreme step. Sources say one of the calls made to a female friend around 11.30am is being probed and the cops would soon approach her to ask about the conversation she had with him. Another call made around this time was to a friend in HCU. He has been contacted too. Both calls are of long duration and lasted around 15-20 minutes each, sources say.
 
 His roommates have told cops that he seemed quite worried about submitting his thesis on Modern History for the past few days. In one of his Facebook posts, he had said that in the past four years he has been trying to enrol himself at JNU but could not do so as he was weak in English. Sources say that he wasn't able to complete his assignment due to this and was worried.
 
 Muthukrishnan had joined JNU in October after clearing the entrance in August. He was pursuing M.Phil from Hyderabad Central University. 
 
 Treating the case as that of unnatural death, the cops have launched inquest proceedings under Section 174 of CrPC. A complaint given by his father, who has alleged foul play, is also being investigated. “A five-member medical board has been constituted for the autopsy,” said Ishwar Singh, DCP, south. The board comprises of doctors from the SC and OBC categories in accordance with a request from his parents.
 
 After reconstructing the sequence of events that preceded the suicide, the police have found that Muthukrishnan had visited his Korean friend, Goman Kim, and his wife around 1.30pm. Kim had invited him and two others, Lakhyajit and Isaac – both pursuing BA from JNU -- for lunch with his family. Kim has told the cops that Muthukrishnan looked morose and said that he had not slept through the night as he was completing his assignments. He asked him to take rest while his wife was preparing lunch. Muthukrishnan then went into a room and locked it from inside,” said a police officer.
 
 Around 2.30pm, when the others arrived, Kim tried to call him but got no reply. So, first they had lunch and then they watched a movie. Kim said that around 4.30pm, he got suspicious and managed to push the door a bit and peep through. To his horror, he found Muthukrishnan hanging from the ceiling fan.
 
 The PCR was informed and cops from the Vasant Vihar police station reached the house and broke open the door. Muthukrishnan had used a quilt to hang himself and his knees were bent and feet almost touching the ground. He was brought down and rushed to AIIMS where he was declared dead on arrival.
 
 Kim, who works with a private firm, said that he knew Muthukrishnan since December after they had met at the Sabarmati dhaba. He used to mimic different south Indian actors, including Rajnikant.
 
 The police have searched both this room and his hostel room but failed to find anything. 
 
 Some of his Jhelum hostel mates have told the cops that on Monday morning, he had left around 7.30am and had breakfast with a few friends at the dhaba, during which he was singing along with them. Later, he also participated in the Holi revelry with some of them after which he was seen speaking to someone for a long time on his phone.
 
 Police sources say the autopsy will be conducted on Wednesday as Muthukrishnan’s father, Jeevanandam, has registered a complaint alleging that he was forced to commit suicide. The family had reached the AIIMS mortuary on Tuesday morning.
 
 
