BHUBANESWAR: People of the state celebrated Odisha day with great fervour, with every government building illuminated and a variety of  , food festivals, photo exhibitions, book releases and competitions held across the state. 

 Prime Minister   wished the people of the state on the day on Twitter. "I pray for Odisha's bright future and prospects of growth," he wrote with a photo of him coming out of the 12th century Jagannath Temple at Puri during his visit to the state in February last year. 
 
 Chief minister   launched digital version of Madhusudan Das's 'Madhu Barnobodha'. He also released a special edition of 'Ame Odia,' an encyclopaedia of biographies of eminent Odia personalities andthe state government published 'Odisha Review'. "Amidst those we have continued our struggle for development Odisha has become a happening state today. Visible improvement has been seen in sectors like industry, education, agriculture, health, infrastructure, sports and economy. Fifty thousand women have been elected and taken charge of the development of the state, which is a historic development," said chief minister Naveen Patnaik, while speaking at an event to mark Utkal Divas here. Popular Odia singer Rituraj Mohanty, Sonam and Harihara presented a colourful cultural programme on the occasion. 
 
 On the eve of the day, noted Koshali poet Haldhar Nag inaugurated a photo exhibition on   at Janata Maidan. "Our history, tradition, language and culture are the soul of our people. We never hesitate to learn and speak Hindi or English as those are national and international languages. But our mother has the first right to be honoured," Nag said.
 
 Photographs of independent Utkal, freedom fighters, poets, political leaders, social reformers who had fought for Odisha's identity, along with those of ancient temples were displayed in the exhibition organized by the Kalinga Association for Protection of Cultural and Heritage (Kapoch), a cultural association. Union oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan and union agriculture minister Radha Mohan Singh were chief guests and Bollywood singer Udit Narayan performed on the occasion. 
 
