NEW DELHI: Battling incumbency in a three-way fight for the civic bodies, BJP on Thursday kickstarted its campaign with a roadshow that was flagged off by Union minister M Venkaiah Naidu and state unit chief Manoj Tiwari. 

 The "Vijay Vikas Rath" commenced its journey from Khayala in Rajouri Garden constituency. Tiwari will use the "rath" to unleash a continuous campaign across the city over the next 16 days. "No matter how hot it gets, I will not separate from this rath till April 22. BJP is already in heart (dil) and it will be in Dilli too," said Tiwari. 
 
 A public meeting organised just before the roadshow had top BJP functionaries, including Naidu, Tiwari and Vijay Goel, in attendance. Though there was much speculation over a possible rebellion by Parvesh Sahib Singh Verma, the local MP too attended the meet, which saw party workers and supporters turning up in big numbers. 
 
 "Today is the sthapana diwas (formation day) of BJP. There was a time when we were mocked as a Brahmin-Bania urban party. But through tireless efforts of workers like you, we have become the world's largest party that is now winning election after election," Naidu told party workers.
 
 The BJP's campaign song, "bhajpa dil main dil main, bhajpa dilli main" sung by Tiwari himself, played in the background. Naidu also took potshots at CM Arvind Kejriwal over "misuse" of public money on advertisements and for fighting "personal legal cases". Steering clear of party's performance at the corporation level, he chose to highlight the "achievements" of the Modi government at the Centre. 
 
 "We send thousands of crores of money from the Centre but it gets leaked through the pipeline (the administrative system). In country, we need governments to supports Modi from Dilli to gully (streets)", he said. 
 
 The byelection to Rajouri Garden is also slated for April 9 and Naidu used the meeting to push BJP-Akali candidate Manjinder Singh Sirsa's case. Attacking Congress, he asked: "Do I need to tell what Congress did with the Sikh community in 1984?"
 
