NASHIK: Medicine wholesalers across the district resorted to an indefinite strike from Wednesday in protest against Food and Drugs Administration’s (FDA) “autocratic way of functioning”.

 Office-bearers of the   and   (MSCDA) said the strike would continue if the FDA did not meet their demands.
 
 Around 500 wholesalers have shut their shops to protest the “one-sided” action of the FDA officials.  , organising secretary of the MSDCA, said “The retailers are also willing to join the strike. However, considering that patients in need of medicine may face problem, we have requested them to stay away from the strike.”
 
 He added, “Over the past few weeks, the FDA has initiated action against wholesalers in the city. The officials found some transactions with the drug wholesalers and a company, which they considered as violation under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act. Recently, the FDA officials issued a show-cause notice and instructions to stop sale and purchase without giving any opportunity to the wholesalers concerned to explain his side.”
 
 Bagrecha said over the past couple of weeks, the FDA has cancelled licences of 12 wholesalers and went on to file criminal cases against two wholesalers.
 
 The office bearers said there were certain items from a pharmaceutical company, which had heavy demand in the market.
 
  The items are sold at a value lesser than the selling price. The wholesalers then claim compensation from the company concerned for distributing the medicine at less than the selling price. This is a practice everywhere and does not amount to violation of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act.
 
 “The strike will continue if the FDA does not stop action against the wholesalers and withdraw criminal cases filed against two of them. We have also written to several ministers about the problems faced by us,” said an MSCDA office-bearer.
 
 “We are not protesting against the action against the drug wholesalers. But the action against a few members is an indication that other members too would face similar action due to some technical error. Hence, it was necessary for the association to make its point clear to the administration and if need be intensify the agitation,” the office-bearer added.
 
 Bhushan Patil, assistant commissioner of Nashik FDA (Drugs), said, “The FDA has taken action against some wholesalers only after finding violations of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act. We have taken action against 12 wholesalers and licences of eight of them have been cancelled. If we find more wholesalers in the same practice, they too would face similar action.”
 
 
