NEW DELHI:   presents a queer challenge for the “secular“ opposition, best described as a cleft stick, and demonstratively evidenced in the absence of “muscular“ criticism that normally follows the selection as chief minister of a man defined by his acerbic anti-Muslim rhetoric.

 Barely had their whitewash in UP elections sunk in that   hoisted on the hapless opposition another surprise in the 
  with an unapologetic Hindutva persona.
 
 Congress, the lead “secular“ player, has limited its reaction to laboured sarcasm about “pressures“ within BJP delaying the selection of the CM, coupled with a seemingly statesman-like hope that the BJP government would focus on “sabka saath, sabka vikas“. There has been virtually no response, forget criticism, worth the name from the rest of the “secular“ bloc, barring the barely visible Left and outliers like Digvijaya Singh.
 
 
  suggest improvisation has started in earnest. In 
  , BJP is looking to cement the immediate Hindu consolidation, with eyes on the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. With the possibility of a “
  ' for the parliamentary contest, the elevation of a hardliner appears aimed at undercutting the potential unity of “social justice“ groups -Dalits, OBCs and Muslims -by strengthening the wider, subsuming umbrella of religion.
 
 For the “secular“ firmament, it poses a big dilemma. A strident tone that the “social justice“ parties are used to against BJP would risk further Hindu consolidation, which is the saffron game plan, while an absence of it would mean abdicating their political role which is also the time-tested strategy to win over Muslims in a competitive field.
 
 The SP-Congress decision to steer clear of “polarising“ issues during the assembly campaign despite provocations like “shamshan-kabristan“ and “Eid-Diwali“ was premised on these very apprehensions. That the caution did not help indicates the force of politics of perception in the context of SP's political baggage.
 
 Many believe post-Adityanath pressure may influence SP's pick for “leader of opposition“ since its seniormost MLAs are Muslims and Yadavs — targets of BJP's charge against “appeasement“ and “lawlessness“.
 
 But even tempered “secularism“ would be tested by future provocations. Hindutva polarisation, it is not surprising, accompanied a heightened thrust on “development“, an antidote to caste polarisation. In future, the state is likely to amplify talk around “goonda raj“, a laudable governance plank which is also seen as a dog whistle. When a ban is ordered on mechanised abattoirs, it will clearly hit a community .
 
 For long, Yogi Adityanath championed the fight against “love jihad“, the agenda of his incendiary campaign in byelections in western UP in September 2014. Given the restraints of high office, the issue may morph into another respectable plank of governance.
 
 How will   or Akhilesh Yadav or   react? Political leaders concede these are testing times where the “secular“ bloc is caught between a rock and a hard place.
 
