PATNA: The postgraduate departments of   (PU) are facing great hardships in transacting their day-to-day business owing to acute financial crunch. PU has not released a single paisa towards annual contingency grant to any department for the last two financial years and, consequently, some departments do not have funds even to buy chalk and duster.

 These points were raised by the heads of PG departments at a meeting convened by PU vice-chancellor Ras Bihari Prasad Singh in the academic council hall here on Wednesday. Any talk of quality improvement is meaningless if the departments do not have even the minimum basic infrastructure, they said.
 
 Almost all the heads of the department bemoaned the acute scarcity of teachers, telling upon the academic progress of the departments. PU history department head Amar Nath Singh said there were only seven teachers, including one each in B N College and Patna College. The department is engaging all the undergraduate and postgraduation classes in different colleges and postgraduate departments of PU despite the fact that history draws maximum rush of students. 
 
 Statistics department head R N Mishra said he happened to be the lone teacher in his department and would retire in a couple of months.
 
 Both the state government and the   have been advising the universities to hire part-time teachers on payment of remuneration at the rate of Rs1000 per class, but the university is not paying even one rupee to the guest faculty. However, the faculty members engaging classes in self-financing courses are paid regularly by the departments concerned. 
 
 The heads of the department demanded that the self-financing courses should not be allowed during normal working hours. They should run either in the morning shift or in the evening shift in order to avoid dislocation of classes of the conventional courses running in day schedule.
 
 They further pointed out that the remuneration paid to the teachers engaged in various examination works, including paper setting, evaluation and PhD viva voce examination was the minimum in the country, about one-tenth of what is being paid to the teachers in other universities. And, even this meagre amount is not paid to the examiners in time as a result of which many outside examiners have stopped coming to PU.
 
 The heads of social sciences departments located in   complex complained that even though there were about 18 departments, there was not a single sweeper. Many heads pointed out that property worth lakhs of rupees have been stolen from   campus following the withdrawal of night guards from the campus.
 
 The vice-chancellor assured the heads that all their genuine problems would be resolved soon. The contingency grant for 2015-16 would be released to the departments within a fortnight and the rates of examination remuneration would also be revised. He would find ways to hire the services of NET qualified scholars for academic activities as per rules.
 
 PU pro-VC   and registrar G K Palei were also present in the meeting.
 
