NAGPUR: Hope and despair continue to dog iron ore mining companies in Surjagarh area of Naxal affected Gadchiroli district.   (LMEL), is the only entity operating in the area at present. After 80 vehicles deployed by LMEL were allegedly torched by Naxals in December, the company revived mining last week only to stop again on Friday.

 The area is estimated to have 400 million tons of iron ore reserve. Early geological studies also indicate availability of precious stones further south of  .
 
 However, naxal threat is not the lone problem. Last year a local activist Nirmala Angulwar filed a PIL against mining in the entire area. The contention is that since Surjagargh is a tribal area, village bodies’ permission has to be taken. 
 
 Apart from LMEL, there are other private companies too that are keen to start the mining with their plans held up at different stages. The other players are Adhunik Group, Gopani Iron and Jindals’ JSW.
 
 In JSW’s case, the state’s directorate of geology and mining is waiting for a clarification from the union ministry on a technical issue since last four years. The iron ore block was originally allotted for prospecting to Ispat Limited which was taken over by JSW. The state government wants a clarification on whether the next steps like granting mining lease should go to JSW or Ispat. There has been no response from the central ministry so far, said sources.
 
 The new mining laws of the state call for taking back the block, if the mining lease (ML) was not secured till January 2017, after getting a letter of intent from the government. Gopani Iron recently got a relief from the high court on this front, said a source in state government. 
 
 The letter of intent is issued after a private company finishes prospecting for which a separate licence is granted. However the company has now got a relief on the grounds that the ML was not there as the forest clearance was not secured, said the source. The state government has also taken back block from four companies for not having secured the ML in time.
 
 Meanwhile, Lloyds has mooted a proposal to get land for starting a steel plant in an area of 100 to 150 acres. The district administration has identified an area at Ashti around 50 kms from the mines for the plant. However, the company is depending on the   (MIDC), for acquiring the land. This is because over 70% of the area in   district is tribal land, which cannot be directly purchased by a private entity.
 
 The industries department has sought clarification from the company on the jobs to be created for the local farmers and project affected persons (PAPs).
 
