Nagpur: To realize the ‘Digital India’ and ‘Green India’ dreams of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, a group of city’s young professionals has developed a fully digital plant pot, probably the first of its kind. The unique pot can automatically provide water to hundreds of plants at a time without any manual effort.  Though crores of saplings are planted in the country every year, the survival rate is very poor due to insufficient water supply. The digital plant pot, which has been developed by ‘Designitezy.com’ — a firm set-up by Nagpur and Pune-based engineering students, uses technology at its best to take care of the plants. The same group of young engineers had earlier developed a digital aquarium. The pot has soil moisture sensors that provides digital signals, informing about the presence of moisture in the soil. “There is an in-built reservoir having a capacity of 25 litres. The pot can be connected with a tap through a regular water pipe. The best part is that once the reservoir is full, water supply stops automatically by an overflow valve. It works just like an automatic washing machine,” said electronics and telecommunications graduate Prateek Malhotra, one of the founders of Designitezy.com. The set-up is ideal for homes having huge gardens as it can be connected to a few plants or hundreds of plants at a time. “A sensor can be put inside every pot. Whenever the plants need water, the flow will start automatically,” said Prateek Harde, an IT expert. Water stored in the reservoir can be easily drained out at the time of cleaning the pot. “Gardeners usually don’t water the plants properly; they only spray on the surface and waste a lot of water. In this pot, water actually goes to the roots,” he added. Different types of plants require varying water content. As the sensors available in markets have a standard threshold, the young engineers innovated special sensors for the pot. “If a sensor has a standard limit of 40% and a palm tree requires only 30% of water, 10% would have gone waste. Hence, to save water, we developed customized sensors that gauge moisture requirement for different plant species, be it indoor or outdoor,” said Richa Malhotra, a graduate in computer science. The equipment, which will soon be available for sale, can be customized as per the interiors of one’s house. “We have attached remote-controlled LED lights. The model will be available in around 200 colour shades,” said Richa. The starting price of the pot will be around Rs1,000. “We are completing the copyright formalities after which we will apply for a patent,” she added.