Hyderabad: A 45-minute session of certain Yoga postures, five days a week, can help keep blood glucose levels under check. Health experts, who have studied a number of people suffering from diabetes, recommend Yoga postures like `Balasana’ and `Sarvangasana’ to keep the body and mind healthy.

 These special postures not only help relieve stress, but also help keep vital systems like digestive, nervous, respiratory and reproduction in good condition.
 
 With an increasing number of Indians falling prey to the dreaded lifestyle disease, Yoga experts point out that high blood sugar can be brought down to optimum level by spending less than an hour daily doing specific Yogasanas.
 
 Dr  , chief medical officer of LifeInControl, recommends Yoga for non-medical management of diabetes as it does not involve any medication and is just based on physical exercise and meditation. Dr Ashwini, who recently conducted a Yoga camp in the city, told TOI that daily practice of Yoga as a way of life rather than just to manage a condition will yield better results.
 
 “Even doing a 45-minute session five times a week could have a huge impact in maintaining the health of a person. There are also specific yoga postures that help manage a patient's glucose level, if practiced daily along with other measures to manage the disease,” she added.
 
 Since diabetes affects almost every part of the body, the better way to manage the disease is to practice Yoga, which is holistic, said herbo-meditation expert Swami Satyaveer of Suvigna Ashramam.
 
 He said experiments conducted by him revealed that certain Yoga postures also help keep blood pressure under control. It also helps maintain a healthy body mass index by reducing obesity and the waist circumference. “Yoga reduces the severity of diabetes symptoms, slows down disease progression, and reduces the chances of complications. Then, of course, there is stress, which increases the secretion of glucagon, a hormone responsible for increasing blood glucose levels. Consistent practice of Yoga and Pranayam, along with a few minutes of meditation every day, can effectively bust stress,” said Dr Ashwini.
 
 She said a sustained lifestyle change can go a long way in keeping diabetes and other chronic health diseases under check. “An app has been developed for constant monitoring of diabetes and better compliance,” she added.
 
