DHARAMSHALA: India never lose when   gets an opportunity to flash his sword, that trademark celebratory twirling of the bat he unleashes on getting to a half-century.

 This was the most telling statistic on a day the allrounder, already the World's No.1 Test bowler, evolved as a Test batsman in a single session.
 
 Jadeja showed rare character and weathered a torrent of pace in between moments of imposing himself on the opposition in the morning. His nuanced 63 enabled India to take an unlikely lead, turning the fourth Test on its head and rattling the Aussies.
 
 Although it's his left-arm spin which is talked about more often, it's worth noting that Jadeja has six half-centuries this season, the same number as  , Murali Vijay and KL Rahul. More importantly, India have won all five previous games in which Jadeja has crossed 50 with the bat: against the Kiwis in Kanpur, against England in Mohali and Chennai, against Bangladesh in Hyderabad and against the Aussies in Ranchi.
 
 Jadeja's one-handed sword dance was in full view again on Monday , probably the herald of a sweet series victory for India on Day 4.
 
 It seems with bat, ball or in the field, Jadeja is by far the Most Valuable Player in the team, a tag he seems to have taken a liking to. “Bahut achcha lagta hai jab log mujhe responsible player kehtey hain (I like it a lot when people call me a responsible player),” he said. “My biggest achievement is contributing in winning causes. It was a tough situation, there was seam and bounce. I told (Wriddhiman) Saha we will have to bat it out and see this through. Today I realized what exactly it is that people mean when they talk about the challenges of Test cricket.”
 
 The improved batting is icing on the cake for Jadeja, who as a bowler too has gone from playing a more containing role to often being the lead strike option. For someone who was used to playing second fiddle to R Ashwin, this improvement has ensured India haven't suffered on the spin front during this long home season.
 
 Since the Chennai Test against England this season, Jadeja has taken a mind-boggling 41 wickets from 6 Tests at an average of 18.68, getting a wicket every 52 balls. Ashwin, in contrast, has just 28 scalps in this period, at 34.03, with a strike rate of 75.7.
 
 In this ongoing series, Jadeja has 25 wickets and two five-wicket hauls. “There are no easy matches when you play for the county,” he said. “It's a good feeling that I am doing well in Tests. It's satisfying to think I am good in both Tests and ODIs now. The confidence increases that I can back myself as a Test player.”
 
 On Monday, after his batting heroics, Jadeja polished off three Aussie wickets. He is also hoping there will be more victory-shaping bat-twirls in the near future. “Yeh toh aapko ab har baar dekhne ko milega (You will get to see this every time now),” he said about the celebration).
 
