RANCHI:   was quick to pat himself on his injured right shoulder soon after   made a mockery of playing spin bowling and lost his off-stump to   as Australia made a disastrous start to their second innings.

 Kohli was duly returning the   taunt of his injury from the day before. The Indian skipper could afford to. Needing to first wipe off a 152-run first-innings deficit in an effort to draw the game, Australia lost Warner and nightwatchman Nathan Lyon to a fire-breathing Jadeja for 23 runs to leave Kohli and Co salivating at the prospect of wrapping up an unlikely victory on the fifth and final day here on Monday.
 
 The game which was progressing on a sedate note, following the pattern of the first three days, burst into life in the final session. First, Wriddhiman Saha, unbeaten on 99 at the tea break, duly completed his third Test hundred. Cheteshwar Pujara's third career double hundred - his second against Australia - followed soon after.
 
 After having crushed Australia's spirit with their 199-run stand for the seventh wicket which lasted five-and-a-quarter hours, both Pujara and Saha perished in their quest for quick runs before Jadeja stepped in to up the ante.
 
 They had, however, done their job. India were already 76 runs ahead of Australia's first innings tally of 451 when Pujara fell for 202. The gallant Saha (117) followed his partner back into the pavilion 14 runs later, but not before giving the Aussies a lesson two in the art of playing spin. The diminutive Bengali often danced down the wicket to Lyon and Steve O'Keefe, lofting them over the in-field to the boundary, while being quick to sway away from the short stuff dished out by the pacers.
 
 After Saha's departure, Jadeja wielded the willow like a scimitar and cut to shreds a tired Australian attack. His quickfire unbeaten 54 off 55 balls, with five boundaries and two sixes, enabled Kohli to declare India's innings at 6039 with just about 30 minutes play remaining in the day.
 
 Having toiled in the field for 210 overs over two days, the Australians were always going to find the task of saving the Test physically and mentally challenging on a fifth-day pitch. However, the manner in which they batted in their second innings convinced one and all that the art of survival even on a slow turner continues to be alien to their thought process.
 
 If India do manage to pull off an incredible victory, the lion's share of the credit will go to Pujara. As always, he was the fulcrum and the others batted around him.   (67), Murali Vijay (82), Saha and Jadeja all played their parts to perfection, but Pujara stood out as the sheet-anchor.
 
 He batted for 11 hours and five minutes, playing a record 525 balls, hitting just 21 boundaries in his epic knock. Pujara thus surpassed his role model Rahul Dravid, who previously held the record for most balls faced by an Indian in an innings - 495 in making 270 at Rawalpindi against Pakistan in 2004.
 
 The first session produced 75 runs in 31 overs and the second 68 in 27 as India slowly but surely took a firm grip on the game. And in spite of being peppered by short-pitched deliveries by both   and Josh Hazlewood, neither Pujara nor Saha flinched. Saha and Pujara were also buoyed by a successful review each during their mammoth stand.
 
 From Australia's point of view, O'Keefe toiled the hardest, sending down 77 of the 210 overs Australia bowled. His returns of 3199 clearly don't do him justice as he tried hard to check the flow of runs. Interestingly, O'Keefe, who had bowled 147 overs in his career before coming to India, has bowled an equal number of overs in two-and-a-half Tests, picking up 18 wickets.
 
 Cummins, in his comeback game after five years, pegged away for 39 overs with dropping his pace, but a fifer still eluded him.
 
