MARGAO: The young and old came out in droves to exercise their franchise on February 4. Taking their duty very seriously were the  . In South Goa, two centenarians—102-year-old Dumelina Mascarenhas e Rodrigues of Colva and 101-year-old Lawrence D’Costa of Sirlim-Chinchinim—were assisted by their sons as they made their way to the polling stations.

 In Benaulim constituency in Salcete, Rodrigues, who resides with her second son Agostinho, 74, was brought in a wheelchair to the polling station at the government primary school, Colva, around 1pm. She was accompanied by her three sons. Agostinho told STOI that although she had successfully cast her ballot in previous polls, this time, she faced a hurdle with presiding officer Oswald Da Costa firmly refusing her son Laureante to assist her.
 
 Da Costa told STOI that the centenarian’s sons had sought to accompany her to the polling booth on the pretext that she could not see and he feared that her son would vote on her behalf. “I cannot permit this. She has not mentioned in the declaration form that she cannot see,” he said. 
 
 Earlier in the day, another centenarian Lawrence D’Costa accompanied by his octogenarian wife, Amelia, was driven to their polling station in the government primary school, Sirlim-Chinchinim in Velim constituency by their son Ernest D’Costa and daughter-in-law Vera, who made the journey from their Taleigao residence in North Goa.
 
 After he got down from the vehicle, D’Costa, who walks steadily with a walking stick, proudly went to the polling booth and cast his vote around 12.15pm. Later, the former government veterinary doctor gladly posed for a photograph along with his 86-year-old wife. 
 
 Interestingly, this polling station in the quiet village of Sirlim in South Goa witnessed many senior citizens casting their vote. Residing in Dandvaddo-Sirlim, 93-year-old Sacramenta Carneiro e Rodrigues was brought to the polling station by her son. 
 
 Despite her 103 years, all it took was a little coaxing from family members, especially her grandson, to get Espiciosa Gouveia D’Souza of Carona, Aldona, to go and cast her vote at the Auxillium School polling station. Accompanied by her daughter-in-law Sylvia, the centenarian was transported to the polling station in a car. Once there, she was immediately escorted inside, the pre-voting formalities completed and she was allowed to cast her vote. She has been a regular voter every election and was not going to let her age stand in the way this time either.
 
 The vibrant village of Aldona too saw its fair share of senior citizens making their vote count. Ninety-three-year-old Felix D’Souza hopped onto his cycle bright and early to cast his vote. His 88-year-old wife Hortencia was not far behind, albeit without a cycle. And as long as their health stays with them, they have every intention of keeping up this practice.
 
