HYDERABAD: Though Indian Premiere League (IPL) tickets are available online, thousands of cricket fans have been waiting outside the   at Uppal on match days to get their passes.

 Cashing in on the craze and ignorance of fans, people have started selling tickets in black for triple the actual price. This came to light when detectives of Special Operations Team (SOT) of the Rachakonda police arrested 13 persons selling IPL tickets in black at the stadium and seized 52 tickets from their possession on Sunday afternoon.
 
 “We arrested 13 persons selling   (SRH)-Gujarat Lions (GL) IPL match tickets in black. They were selling a '1,000 ticket for '3,000-''4,000 and 'tickets for '5,000,“ SOT inspector K   said.
 
 Police seized 52 tickets and '32,060 cash from the possession of the accused, who were operating from parking lots near the stadium.
 
 The accused were handed over to Uppal police for further investigation.
 
 The SOT detectives told TOI that the accused were all locals and they were yet to find evidence of organised gangs in the fraud. “Most of them are unemployed youth. There are students, petty vendors and private employees too. All of them are individuals and no organised gangs are involved,“ SOT inspector Naveen Kumar said.
 
 On interrogation, the accused confessed that they had booked tickets for good seats well in advance to sell them on day of the match for a profit.Police said that during two match days so far this season, about three to four thousand fans were found waiting outside the stadium looking for tickets at the last minute.
 
 Though SOT detectives claimed the IPL tickets for the matches to be held at the stadium were sold out and this had encouraged the accused to sell them in black for profit, when TOI checked for the availability of tickets for future IPL matches, they were available in most categories. “If tickets are available and people are still selling them in black, that means fans, who are purchasing them, are either those who decided to watch the match at the last moment or those who presumed that tickets will be available over the counter at the stadium like cinema tickets,“ Narsinga Rao said.
 
