AGRA: Police have arrested a   who chopped his uncle to pieces and dumped them at a railway track, as the accused was infuriated over been scolded in front of his family members for   of  .
 
  The arrest came two days after the torso and a leg of the victim, identified as  , were found by the police. Sandeep, originally from Kasganj district, was an engineer with a private company in Faridabad. Rajat Kumar, the accused, lived in a rented flat in Agra.
  
  Speaking to TOI,  , an uncle of the victim said, “After Rajat’s father died, Sandeep’s family was taking care of the youth. It was Sandeep who got Rajat employed as salesman at his younger brother’s (Divender Kumar) garment outlet in Agra. But Rajat was a spoiled brat. He used to bet and lose money in gambling and often showed inflated bills of the garment outlet to Sandeep to avoid suspicion.”
  
  “Two weeks ago some notorious elements confined Rajat in Firozabad after he lost Rs 15,000 in gambling. Rajat called Sandeep and asked for help, after which Sandeep paid the money and took Rajat to his mother. In front of the entire family, Rajat was scolded by Sandeep and warned to stay away from gambling. The reprimand seems to have infuriated Rajat and he developed hatred for Sandeep,” said Rakesh.
  
  According to the police, to avenge the insult, Rajat hatched a plan. When Sandeep visited Rajat’s apartment in Niravkunj in the KK Nagar area on May 7, the youth bought two airbags from a shopping mall and paid for them using Sandeep’s debit card.
  
  Shlok Kumar, circle officer of Hariparvat, said, “On the evening of May 8, Rajat offered a sedative-laced drink to Sandeep, after which he fell unconscious. Rajat then smashed his uncle’s head in with a stone, killing him. To dispose of the body, Rajat chopped it to pieces with a meat carving knife and packed them in the bags. He then took the bags on his motorcycle to Sikandra flyover and dumped the victim’s body on the railway track. We still have to recover the victim’s head and the other leg.”
  
  “In order to deceive family members and the police, Rajat went to Kosi Kalan in Mathura and sent a text message to the victim’s younger brother Divender Kumar from Sandeep’s phone, claiming to be Sandeep and saying he was drugged and locked in a car’s trunk along with a corpse, by a group of men,” the police officer added.
  
  Later when Kosi Kalan police filed a missing person complaint for Sandeep and started investigations, Rajat felt the pressure. To dodge police suspicion, he arranged for a new SIM card and made threatening calls to his family, claiming that Sandeep had been killed because of his relationship with a girl.
  
  “His phone conversation was recorded by us, after which we informed the police. Later Rajat confessed,” said Rakesh.
  
  Police said Rajat was the only accused, although he tried to rope in a friend as an accomplice and failed. He was booked under sections related to murder and destruction of evidence of the IPC.
