CHENNAI: Opposition parties on Tuesday criticised the AIADMK government in Tamil Nadu – which has completed one year in office -- for doing nothing except involving in corruption. 

 In a letter to cadre,   working president M K Stalin said the time had come to change the government democratically. "This government has not done anything for the sake of people. Food and water are not available for people," he said.
 
 “In its 2011 manifesto, the AIADMK promised to provide 20 liters of water to each residence. But the promise hasn’t been fulfilled so far,” he said.
 
 "People in the state are staging protests on issues like shutting down of liquor shops. Transport employees are seeking a hike in their salaries. But the government has not taken any steps to stop the protests," said Stalin.
 
 Stating that Tamil Nadu was at the last place in all departments, Stalin said, “The time has come for the state to have the sun's light.” (The rising sun is the DMK’s symbol.) 
 
 The   has also criticised the AIADMK government. In a statement, PMK founder S Ramadoss said, "The worst government in the state since 1921 was that of J Jayalalithaa's 1991-96 government. But the present government under Edappadi K Palaniswami has outdone Jayalalithaa's government. There is corruption in all departments, and people are waiting for this government to go," said Ramadoss.
 
 
 
 
 TNCC president S Thirunavukkarasar the AIADMK-led government is a rudderless ship, without a captain at the helm. With former ministers and MLAs rebelling against the leadership, there is a question mark over the future of the party and the state, he said in a statement.
  
 He recalled that in the last one year, the state had suffered several disasters such as the December 2015 floods, cyclone Vardah in 2016 and the severe drought this year.
  
 He said though the state government had sought a much higher amount, the BJP-government at the Centre granted only Rs 4,000 crore, despite the fact that Tamil Nadu is facing its worst drought in 140 years.
  
 He alleged that the AIADMK-government did not have the strong leadership or unity to raise their voice against the alleged “injustice” meted out by the Centre. “As the country's third biggest party, why are they not speaking up for the state,” he wondered.
  
 The TNCC chief also raised the issue of the state government not taking a strong stand on issues such as NEET, Cauvery Water Management Board and joining Central schemes. He alleged that new companies and investments are going to other states.
  
 On education, he alleged that the state government was taking unilateral decisions and should appoint a committee to discuss important issues.
 
 
 
 
