CHENNAI: More than 25 years after   attacked the   in   and took away  , the   has confirmed life imprisonment for three ultras. A division bench of the court also acquitted six other ultras of all charges.

 On April 6, 1991,   Liberation Army (TNLA) members barged into the Puthur police station and attacked the policemen present. While constable Rajendran died in the attack, a sub-inspector and three other police personnel suffered grievous injuries. The Puthur police registered a case punishable under the Explosive Substances Act and Arms Act. The case was later transferred to the CBCID.
 
 The breakthrough in the case came in 2000 when the suspects were tracked down to Ponnamaravathi in Pudukottai district. A special court in Poonamallee on March 24, 2014 awarded life sentence to nine accused.
 
 It sentenced Su alias Sundaram alias Ramasamy alias Anbalagan to undergo seven years rigorous imprisonment (RI). Another suspect, Lenin alias Mahasangamam, died during the trial.
 
 The HC bench has now confirmed life term only for Suba Elavarasan alias Pandian alias Vallavan, Kumar alias Gopalsamy , and Amulraj alias Selvam.
 
 The judges have set aside the lower court's verdict in respect of Venkatesan alias `Radio' Venkatesan, Murugesan, Maran alias Manimaran alias Senguttuvan, Nallarasu, Ravi alias Velmurugan and Ilango Mani.
 
 The origin of the TNLA can be traced to the activities of Pulavar Kaliyaperumal, a former school teacher and left-wing extremist.Within the Naxalite ranks, he began a debate on Tamil nationalism, which led to differences of opinion between the TN unit and the all-India unit of the   of India -Marxist-Leninist (CPI-ML).
 
 While state leaders like Pulavar Kaliyaperumal, Thamizharasan and Anbazhagan alias Sundaram advocated a separate Tamil Nadu, the all-India leadership rejected the idea. This led to a formal split in the CPI-ML and the formation of Tamil Nadu Communist PartyMarxist-Leninist (TNCPML) in 1984-85. The TNCPML's armed wing was named TNLA.
 
