GAYA: Following the submission of faculty-wise seniority list of teachers by the   (MU) registrar, the race for the post of MU’s   has hotted up.

 The incumbent VC, Prof Md Ishtiaq, was appointed on January 31, 2014 for a three-year period. He joined on February 9, 2014.
 
 According to sources, regular appointment to the post of MU VC is unlikely to be made before the expiry of the tenure of the outgoing VC and, therefore, an interim VC is likely to be appointed on the basis of seniority from among the serving teachers of the university. The process for appointment of the regular VC has not gone beyond the advertisement stage and at least two months may be required for its finalisation.
 
 In response to an earlier communication from the Raj Bhawan, MU registrar Nalin Kumar Shastri has submitted six lists of faculty-wise teachers. The faculties are humanities, social sciences, science and commerce. Separate lists have been submitted for the category of principals in the professor rank and deans of different faculties.
 
 Kusum Kumari, professor of Philosophy and a former dean of the faculty of humanities, tops the list of the humanity faculty. She is followed by D D Rai, professor of Hindi and the present dean of the faculty of humanities. The science faculty list has Mohan Prasad, professor of Chemistry, T P S College-Patna, on the top. Nalin Kumar Shastri, professor, PG department of Botany figures at the second slot in the list of science faculty teachers.
 
 In the social science faculty,  , professor, department of economics at J J College, Gaya, figures at number one position followed by Ashok Kumar, professor of political science, Gaya College, Gaya. The commerce faculty seniority list is headed by S N Singh, professor, department of commerce, Gaya College, Gaya with S S Gupta of PG department, MU Campus, at number two position.
 
 The combined list of serving faculty deans puts D D Rai at the top followed by N K Shastri. Usha Singh, principal of Arvind Mahila College-Patna, and Babban Singh, principal of Commerce College- Patna, figure at the first and second positions in the list of principals in the professor rank. 
 
 According to the sources, education minister   favours the continuation of serving VCs till the appointment of their successors in the regular manner. However, according to  , an expert on university laws, Section 10 of the Universities Act forbids continuation of VCs beyond their three-year term.
 
