TRICHY: Ahead of the northeast monsoon, the   in Nagapattinam district need to produce just a few tonnes more to reach the annual capacity. This should have been music to the ears of salt producers as the season did not experience much interruption from unseasonal showers either. But, they are unhappy for fear of losing out to their Gujarati counterparts. As the salt produced from Gujarat is offered at a comparatively cheaper price, several customers of Vedaranyam salt pans have shifted their purchasing base, resulting in the plummeting of salt demand as well as price.Thanks to the poor emphasis on the sector and absence of proper infrastructure, Tamil Nadu, from being the second largest salt producer, has slipped to the third spot behind Gujarat and Rajasthan.

 Salt produced from the pans in Gujarat is being sold at least 20%-30% cheaper than Vedaranyam. “We cannot compete with them ( ). Their production cost is around Rs 200 per tonne while it is Rs 450 per tonne for us. Salt pans in Gujarat are mechanised and they have the best rail and sea network to market their produce, minimising production and transport costs," said V Senthil, secretary of small and marginal salt producers association in Vedaranyam.
 
 In the final week of September, 4.5 lakh tonnes of salt was produced in Vedaranyam. Home to the second largest salt producing pans in the state after Tuticorin, Vedaranyam salt pans spread over 9,000 acres, including 6,000 acres of corporate firms, with an average annual yield of 5 lakh tonnes, including edible and industrial variants. The production that begins in January would go on till early October.
 
 Owing to poor demand from market penetration of Gujarat salt, prices of salt produced in Vedaranyam have dropped to Rs 400- Rs 500 per tonne this year as against last Rs 600-700 per tonne year's “Our markets in Kurnool in Andhra Pradesh and Mangalore in Karnataka have been swept away by the salt producers from Gujarat. We need the state government here to develop the salt industry by  ," Senthil added.
 
 Sources with the Union ministry of commerce and industry that monitors salt production through a separate department said that Gujarat and Rajasthan in the recent past had drastically improved their production and marketing capacity whereas in Tamil Nadu, it was the other way round. The southern state ,which had ranked second in annual salt production in the country, has lost its place to Rajasthan, they said.
 
 “There is no primary mechanism to decide salt price in Tamil Nadu, and for that matter, no dedicated department is in place to support the salt producers. The state government should concentrate more on improving transportation facility for marketing the produce," the official added.
 
