JAIPUR: Three years ago, when nearly 400 women joined as bus conductors in   (RSRTC), they were reluctant to take up duty during late evening hours, especially in  .

 However, they have now ‘graduated’. They are not only demanding overnight duties, they can also be seen in long-distance buses to Kota, Udaipur and other parts of Rajasthan.
 
 Twenty-five-year-old Sunita Mahawar, who usually does duty in the Sawai Madhopur-Jaipur express bus, recalled how she would get angry with crowds when she started work. “Initially, I was disturbed when I had to handle heavy crowds in the bus. Now I am used to managing them properly. Though one has to strike a balance between family and work, I’ve been able to do so properly,” she says.
 
 Earlier, women were given jobs by RSRTC on compassionate grounds. They usually took up non-field jobs and could be seen working in offices.
 
 These days, they can be seen in long-distance express and air-conditioned bus. Many have performed well in their new roles and attributed it to husbands and in-laws.
 
 “Generally, there are chances of money ‘leakage’ with men conductors. Since women joined as conductors, revenue has improved and they have proved to be more honest and dutiful,” said a senior officer of operations on the condition of anonymity.
 
 Sarla Rani (26), another bus conductor, gets up at 6am and joins for duty on the 8am bus from Churu to Jaipur. “After we joined the service, the men, especially fellow drivers, are very cooperative. They take care of our food and help us whenever there are issues with passengers or any other crisis,” she added.
 
 Even passengers are very cooperative and do not create problems for women travelling in the bus. “When a woman is around, one has to be courteous. During my trips to Kota, I have found women bus conductors many a time. I have had no issues,” said Nishant Singh, a student from Jaipur who’s studying for IIT entrance in Kota.
 
 New women recruits too are excited about join the service as bus conductors. “We have women bus conductors in Delhi, Gujarat and southern parts of India. Why can't it be so in Rajasthan? I am excited to join this service,” says Sunita Kumar, a successful RSRTC candidate from Dholpur.
 
 
