NAVI MUMBAI: The now 25-year-old   survivor, who was also a key eyewitness in the rape-cum-murder of her friend under the Belapur flyover in May 2012, is reportedly unaware about the Thane district session court’s death sentence for the two accused. The rape   had appeared only once during the trial, when she was examined by the public prosecutor and cross-examined at length by the duo’s lawyer. 

 Public prosecutor Sangita Phad said, “I am unaware of the rape survivor’s whereabouts. She had attended the trial in August 2015, as she was the also the complainant and prime witness. She was poor and earned petty amounts by collecting plastic waste from streets. She was not present in court when the judge found the duo guilty and awarded them capital punishment for their barbaric and inhuman act of raping the women and stabbing them several times, which led to the death of the other woman, aged 28 then.”
 
 Head constable Ashok Palkar, who was assigned documentation of court cases, said, “The survivor was admitted to Sion hospital. After treatment, she was sent to Seal Ashram in Panvel but she left it as she wanted to work for a living. Even today, she can be spotted rag-picking near Vashi railway station.”
 
 Phad said, “The session court judge convicted the duo based on the survivor’s statement and that of 11 witnesses. The court ordered the convicts to pay Rs 15,000 compensation to the legal heir of the deceased. The amount was nominal, considering the source of income of the accused, who were helpers with a   agency. The court even directed the government to pay compensation to the victims as per the policy.”
 
 She said, “The court has not ordered rehabilitation for the survivor as she was not a minor and it was not a Prevention of Immoral Trafficking Act (PITA) case. While there was some negligence by the investigating police officer, as he had not recorded the statement of an auto driver, a witness, and hence he was not examined. Even the survivor’s medical certificate was not collected. I had to write to the correspondence medical officer and police station and collected documents. Thereafter, I summoned the medical officer as it was a major mistake by the investigating officer. Actually, collecting the medical certificate was the responsibility of the investigating officer, whose approach was casual in the serious offence of rape-cum-murder.”
 
 The then investigating officer, inspector Shekhar Tore said, “I had submitted all documents, including the medical certificate, to the previous public prosecutor, who may not have handed them over to the new prosecutor. The reason being that the court convicted the accused even under Section 326 of the IPC, for voluntarily causing grievous hurt with a dangerous weapon, which was inflicted on the survivor, and the verdict has been given based on the medical certificate of injury to the complainant. Thereafter, I got transferred to Nashik.”
 
 The rape survivor is locally known as a no-nonsense, gutsy woman. “She was well-known in the Vashi station area for being hard-working and friendly. She was ready to fight with anyone if the situation demanded,” said an elderly   woman at Vashi. Many told TOI she often comes once a week to Vashi station to meet up with friends.
 
 In January 2013, TOI had briefly met her at the ashram. Despite the trauma, multiple stab injuries and friend’s murder, she smiled. She said cheerfully, “Ab sab theek hai (Everything is fine now).”
 
 A local crime branch official had recalled, “The survivor was bleeding profusely from her neck and other parts but she used all her inner strength to crawl out of the cavity under the flyover and alert passers-by and police. That is how we got to know about the rape and murder. She is certainly tough as nails and was determined to make the offenders pay for killing her friend.”
 
 Currently, most local rag-pickers and hutment dwellers near the station are aware about the death rap but they do not know if she also knows about it.
 
 
