They are the two giants of contemporary Tamil cinema, who have often taken on the role of saving their country, their people or the underdog in various films over the last four decades. After dropping numerous hints and making dramatic statements, the people of   are now waiting to see whether   and   will don the same role in real life as well, battling it out democratically at the poll booths instead of taking on villains at street-corners. Equally significantly, will they face off against each other?
 
  There has been no official announcement from him yet but there need be no doubt that Rajinikanth is laying the ground for his political entry, says Tamilaruvi Manian, a former Congressman and founder of Gandhiya Makkal Iyakkam, a party espousing Gandhian ideals. Manian should know — in August, he had convened a meeting in Trichy attended by a sea of people, where he said the superstar would be entering politics soon, though he did not specify when.
  
  The meeting was called with the blessings of Rajinikanth, who had previously met his fans in May and told them he would call upon them when it was time for “war”. At his modest apartment in Chennai, Manian says Rajinikanth is in “stealth mode”, preparing for the plunge, and establishing a base in all 234 constituencies in Tamil Nadu using his network of fan clubs.
  
  “He has been talking to experts in various fields and taking their views on different issues. He will be meeting his fans in mid-October in the run-up to the release of Kaala and he could make an announcement then,” he says. The star had called Manian, too, for advice and had met him at his Poes Garden residence multiple times.
  
  
  
  
  The three main planks Rajinikanth will fight on are the interlinking of rivers in the southern region from Mahanadi to   to solve the problem of drought, a government free of corruption and transparency in governance, says Manian. The rumours that Rajinikanth would ally with BJP are just that, he says. “Even a common man on the street knows that BJP is allying with  . And Rajini believes the system has been corrupted by both the Dravidian parties and he won’t align with either of them,” he underlines.
  
  Rajinikanth has thus far spoken only through Manian about his political entry and obliquely to his fans, apart from the occasional tweet. But Haasan has been more direct, giving various TV interviews over the past week where he has confirmed he will be joining the fray. Yet, despite the best efforts of the anchors to wring it out of him, he has refused to commit to much else, including when the party would be launched and who he might align with.
  
  While he has been extremely critical of the ruling AIADMK, using Twitter to attack its policies, he has not committed to much else. Last month, when he visited Kerala Chief Minister  , he told the media that his colour was not saffron. He has also said, on multiple occasions, that many of his heroes are from the Left. Delhi Chief Minister   visited him in Chennai, setting tongues wagging, but there was no dramatic announcement following their meeting.
  
  
  
  
  In interviews, he has said that no party is untouchable and that he cannot stop having dialogues with other parties. “I would rather be in the centre — that’s the best point of view, in politics or in a storm,” he told one interviewer. He has said that he has his differences with Rajinikanth but has also mentioned that he would join hands with him, the equivocation making it hard to pin down what exactly he stands for.
  
  
 
  This skittishness in committing to an ideology need not be a hindrance, feels SV Srinivas, author of Politics as Performance and a professor at Azim Premji University.
  
  “His reluctance to declare allegiance might be the recognition that it is not easy to directly be in politics. But (former Andhra CM) NTR did not have an ideology when he entered politics — the plank of Telugu identity and his manifesto came later,” he points out. The same criticism had been levelled against MGR when he stood for elections but, in Tamil Nadu, celebrities are not about ideology, he says. More interesting is the fact that he might influence the electoral outcome even without directly contesting the elections.
  
  “He has been using Twitter and television interviews to get his views across.” His new TV role as the host of the hugely popular Bigg Boss Tamil on Vijay TV has given him one more platform, which the astute actor has been using effectively to air his views and establish a connection with prospective voters.
  
  
  
  
  The canny TV strategy might be working, at least in some quarters. Seethalakshmi, a 65-year-old hawking strands of jasmine on a footpath in Kilpauk in Chennai, says she is an avid viewer of Bigg Boss and will vote for Haasan if he stands for elections.
  
  “The entire country knows about him now, after Bigg Boss. He is a good man,” she says. Earlier, she had been a loyal voter of Jayalalithaa but now she might also consider Stalin, who she says goes to his voters’ homes whenever there is an occasion. What about Haasan’s cross-town rival? “He talks a lot but doesn’t seem to be doing anything,” says Seethalakshmi. Suresh Babu, an autorickshaw driver, also says that between the two, his vote would go to Haasan. “At least Kamal Haasan has made an announcement about the elections. Rajinikanth hasn’t said anything yet. I’ll vote for Kamal,” he says.
  
  
  
  
  Political analyst and writer Gnani Sankaran says Haasan also has the advantage of being single, as was Jayalalithaa. “If Rajinikanth’s family interferes in his politics, voters will not look on that favourably.” But he also acknowledges that Rajinikanth’s fan base is much wider, spreading across the state, while Haasan is seen more as a more cerebral actor.
  
  It is this wide fan base that the actor and his supporters are hoping to harness, once they have launched the party, says Manian. “He has fan associations in every village in the state.” The two major parties in the state, the   and the AIADMK, have booth-level committees in every constituency. To give them a serious run for their money, any rival would need to have a similar infrastructure in place, which is where the associations would come in handy, says Manian.
  
  
 
  It is the ardour of these fans that gives film stars the confidence that they would have a fighting chance for the highest office in the state, says former producer and veteran director Muktha Srinivasan, who has directed films starring Sivaji Ganeshan, Rajinikanth and Haasan. “The actors’ fans are stronger than the political party workers. After all, if you had an hour to spare, would you rather listen to a lecture by Subramanian Swamy or go watch a Kamal Haasan film?” says the 87-year-old.
  
  The political ambition of the actors can only be fulfilled with the strength of their fans. The lengths to which Rajinikanth’s fans go is the stuff of legend, whether it is having his picture on their wedding invitations, queuing up at the most unearthly hours for tickets to a first-day, first-show screening of their idol or spending exorbitant amounts for a chance to meet him.
  
  It is a strength other stars have ridden on in Tamil Nadu, a state whose political landscape has been closely connected to its cinema since its formation. Its first chief minister, CN Annadurai, wrote the script and dialogues for several films which he used to propagate Dravidian principles. DMK leader  , too, was known for his skill in writing scripts for films and plays.
  
  His associate-turned-rival MG Ramachandran, or MGR, was successfully able to convert his onscreen persona of a man of the masses off-screen as well, winning three successful terms as chief minister. MGR’s confidante and successor in the AIADMK, former CM Jayalalithaa, was also an actor though she took great pains to distance herself from her film career and image of a heroine, once she became the party leader. Most recently, Vijaykanth, or “Captain”, was able to successfully launch his own party, the DMDK reaching a peak vote share of 10% in 2009 though that shrunk to 2.4% in the 2016 Assembly elections.
  
  
  
  
  But while these are the success stories, there have been spectacular routs, too, of others who attempted going down the same path, highlighting that box office victories need not be a guarantee of one at the voting booth. The most infamous of these is possibly that of matinee idol Sivaji Ganesan, MGR’s contemporary and on-screen rival. Initially aligned with Annadurai and then Kamraj, he launched his own party in 1989 but it lost all the seats it contested, including Ganesan’s own.
  
  While the rumours of Rajinikanth entering politics has been doing the rounds for years, a combination of circumstances has made the current climate favourable for both the stars’ entry. Jayalalithaa’s death in December 2016 and the subsequent factionalism and squabbling among its ministers and her confidante Sasikala’s family members has left the AIADMK in complete disarray.
  
  Its rival, DMK, has a succession plan with Karunanidhi’s son, Stalin, readying to take over but he is not held to have the charisma of his 93-year-old father, who is ailing. As long as Jayalalithaa and Karunandhi were feuding for the CM’s chair, no rival stood a chance. But now, the political climate is greatly altered. “There is a vacuum in Tamil Nadu because of the lack of leaders and both Kamal and Rajinikanth are in the advantageous position of already being well-known to the people,” says Sankaran. The question now is how they will go about it.
  
  Though Rajinikanth might have appreciated Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “Swachh Bharat” campaign that need not be interpreted as support for the BJP, says Manian. Haasan’s comments suggesting an alliance between the BJP and Rajinikanth were uncalled for, he feels.
  
  While welcoming his prospective entry into politics, Manian also says that if Haasan were to contest independently, he would meet the same fate as Sivaji Ganesan, since his support base is confined to the upper and upper-middle class. “His options are limited. If he joins the DMK, he will lose credibility. He is a vociferous critic of the AIADMK and an atheist, so he won’t align with BJP either. His only practical option is to join hands with Rajinikanth.”
  
  Haasan himself has been ambivalent about this, indicating that he is open to all options. But regardless of alliances, the next elections could be Tamil Nadu’s opportunity to look beyond the two Dravidian parties that have been taking it in turns to be in power, for decades. And one or both of its silverscreen heroes might just be instrumental in scripting that historic change. 
