NAGPUR: Government has included chronic respiratory diseases in its national non communicable disease programme and is trying to implement the WHO guidelines even at the primary health centre level.

 Dr Randeep Guleria, the new AIIMS director credited with the establishment of India's first centre for pulmonary medicines and sleep disorders said that there was a big shift from communicable to the non-communicable diseases in the country and hence the government was keen on management of lifestyle diseases including the COPD (Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease).
 
 Dr Guleria was in city for a national meet on pulmonology organized jointly by the Academy of Medical Sciences, Association of Physicians and Indian Society for Critical care Medicine in collaboration with the Breathe Trust. He delivered the Dr Dheeraj Gupta Oration on Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA) which was chaired by Dr S K Jindal and Dr D Behera.
 
 “Patients are still reluctant for the inhaler therapy. They need to know that newer drug with minimal side effects are now available in inhalation therapy,” said Dr Guleria who also happens to be the first DM in pulmonology in the country from PGI Chandigarh.
 
 Stress is also been given to sensitive as well as drug resistant tuberculosis. But now with availability of molecular techniques like the ‘gene Xpert’ which can pick up resistance to the TB drugs in just two hours diagnosing the MDR TB has become easy. Government is installing these test machines at primary health centres too.
 
 In his talk on OSA Dr Guleria said that it was a wrong notion that people who snore have a good sleep. In fact these people are very prone to fatal cardiovascular attacks, metabolic disorders, imbalance of lipids or dyslipidemia. Studies have shown that the oxygen saturation levels in these patients falls much below the required level causing intermittent hypoxia (less oxygen), insulin resistance in diabetic patients, sleep deprivation and non-alcoholic fatty liver. In obese people 40% of the OSA patients have diabetes.
 
 The meet discussed pulmonary infections, diffuse parenchymal disease, obstructive airway disorders, respiratory critical care, sleep disorder breathing and lung cancer.
 
 Dr  , senior pulmonologist was the organizing chairperson for the  . Dr Chandrashekhar Cham, Dr Sachin Suryawanshi, Dr Deepak Jaiswani, Dr   and DR   were the main organizers of the meet.
 
