LUCKNOW: A triangular battle of ballots between two warring ranis and a tainted minister in   is not the only thing making the electoral contest in the VIP district a must watch. The proverbial Gandhi turf, where the BJP is putting in all its might to queer the pitch for the Congress-SP alliance, also has curious contests building up in the neighbouring assembly constituencies of Gauriganj, Jagdishpur and Tiloi. Salon, the other seat in Amethi, has already polled along with Rae Bareli on February 23. 

 Much has been said of the Amethi contest -- where SP’s Gayatri Prajapati hopes to benefit from the division of votes between the warring ranis -- Garima and Ameeta. The BJP, however, has played up Prajapati’s criminal record -- he was charged with rape -- to dent his chances. In 2012, the Congress had won two and the Samajwadi Party the remaining three assembly seats that fall under the Amethi Lok Sabha constituency. 
 
 If Amethi is headed for a nail-biting finish, there’s also a plenty of drama unfolding in Gauriganj. Union minister Smriti Irani, who contested the 2014 Lok Sabha polls from Amethi, wielded her clout in the BJP to elbow out four-time MLA and RSS worker of over three decades, Tejbhan Singh, during ticket distribution for the UP polls. Instead of Tej Bhan, the BJP fielded Uma Shankar Pandey, the party’s district president and Irani pick. 
 
 An upset Singh did not contest as a rebel, but has since also refused to campaign for the BJP. The local RSS and BJP cadres have pulled out support too, giving Mohammed Naeem, the local Congress candidate a virtual walkover. With palpable anger among the cadres in Gauriganj, the news has also reached the power circles in Delhi. Though prime minister Narendra Modi was to campaign for Pandey in Gauriganj, his programme was called off. 
 
 Irani, in Amethi on Saturday, also avoided visiting the district headquarters, unwilling to face an open show of dissent. “Dada has tremendous respect here. BJP would have won comfortably if he had been fielded. But since he was asked to stay home, we too have stopped going to canvass for the BJP,” said Munna Singh, an RSS worker in Gauriganj. 
 
 While Prajapati hopes to benefit from the division of votes between the warring ranis, the popular local sentiment appears swinging in favour of   whose poll pitch has focussed on “seeking justice” for the wrongs done to her. 
 
 This time, though, the BJP hopes to dent the SP-Congress combine in both Tiloi and Jagdishpur. This other Battle Royale is being played out between Mayankeshwar Saran Singh, the ‘Raja’ of Tiloi and debutante Mohammed Saud, the son of incumbent MLA Mohd Muslim, who defected from the Congress to Bahujan Samaj Party in 2016. Congress’s Vinod Mishra is pitted against the duo in this constituency. 
 
 In neighbouring reserved Jagdishpur, Radhey Shyam ‘Dhobi’ is fighting to preserve his grandfather’s Ram Sevak Dobhi’s legacy in Jagdishpur. A Gandhi family loyalist, Radhey Shyam had defeated the SP candidate in 2012. This time, with the SP and Congress in an alliance, he is hoping to save the seat in a tighly fought contest against BJP’s Suresh Pasi and BSP’s Jugdutt Kori.
 
 
