MUMBAI: In a bid to tackle the menace of  ,   government has finally provided more teeth to its motor transport rules. On Thursday, the state legislative assembly passed a Road Safety Measures bill aimed at lowering vehicular noise levels, regulating traffic and streamlining the process of acquiring driving licences and registering vehicles.

 Noise pollution is currently governed by rules under a central law known as the Environment Protection Act. These rules which are meant to be enforced by police, include notifying zones under various categories classified as commercial, residential and silence. To make enforcement stricter by state agencies such as traffic police and the road transport wing, similar rules have been incorporated in the bill drafted by the state transport department.
 a harsh, shrill, loud or al
 With regard to restrictions on honking, the bill says that a driver of a vehicle shall not sound the horn in silence zones, needlessly or continuously or more than necessary to ensure safety; he or she shall also not make use of a cut-out by which exhaust gases are released other than through the silencer; use of multitoned horns making arming noise has also been barred.
 
 The bill also mentions that every driver shall on the approach of an emergency vehicle such as of the police, fire brigade, ambulance, allow such vehicle free passage by drawing to the side of the road. The bill has also suggested setting up of a mobile court for the purpose of trying cases registered under the provisions of the Act.
 
 The bill was passed unanimously without a discussion.
 
 Transport minister   said the new rules would be as an addition to the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, which is a central law. The latest provisions would help consolidate and amend laws relating to motor vehicles.
 
 The Act also contains provisions relating to licensing of drivers, registration of vehicles, fitness of transport vehicles, permit for commercial vehicles, control of traffic and penalties for breach of provisions.
 
