The organisers of the   got some shock therapy on Saturday after a hue and cry over their depiction of Mahishasura, one of whose many avatars has been shown as a doctor.Though the organisers claim this is a depiction of the scourge of fake doctors, after photos of the idol went up on social media, seven medical associations have complained against this. It has now been removed. 

 The park was kept out of bounds for pandal-hoppers on Saturday . Said organiser  , “Fake doctors are a reality in Bengal. We trust doctors with our lives and this is what we get in return! Through our Puja, we want to hold up a mirror to society .“
 
 In June this year, CID identified 500 fake doctors practising in government hospitals and private clinics in Bengal.The order for the idol was given to   & Sons around that time. Another organiser,  , said, “We are showcasing different strata of society -so there's depiction of atrocities on women, priests who hoard money , political netas who make false promises and fake doctors who extract moolah from patients. The portraits adorning the pandal also convey the message of peace and we are using light to signify the illumination of our minds.“
 
 The problem, he said, was with people jumping to conclusions before the inauguration of the Puja. “Visitors who came to our pandal before it was thrown open must have uploaded pictures on social media. We are not ready and last-minute work is on. We have not labelled the fake doctor yet,“ he explained.  , son of Kushaddhaj Bera, who made the idol, said he was given a brief to depict the six vices -kam, krodh, lobh, hing sha, ahonkar and matsarya -this Puja. “The concept this year is shororipu and we have shown `lobh' or greed through fake doctors, who are nothing more than extortionists.They are a blot on society and have been causing immense harm to ailing patients,“ he said.
 
 Till Saturday , there was nothing on the idol to identify it as a fake doctor, and after the social media backlash, a team of medical practitioners visited the Puja. Dr Sajal Biswas, general secretary of Service Doctors Forum (SDF) came calling on the organisers with a complaint raised by seven medical associations. “I squirmed in my chair when I heard that a doctor has been shown as the asura! It's a pious profession and no one can take it for granted. Such a portrayal can create an environment of mistrust and sour the relationship between doctors and patients,“ he said.
 
 At a time when hospitals are vandalised every other day, this will cause immense harm, he felt. “I wonder how Md Ali Park got police permission! If there's nothing to differentiate doctors from fake doctors, we will either lodge a police complaint or move court,“ said Dr Biswas, pointing out that there are rotten apples in every profession. For organisers, it will be a tough run-up to Durga Puja.
 
 
 
