KANPUR: As soon as voting for the   began on Monday morning,   remained glued to their   to capture each and every moment as  , who hails from this village, is contesting election for the country's top office. Expectations were high that he would finally defeat the opposition candidate  . 

 Even as Kovind's family members and relatives were away in New Delhi, the villagers expressed happiness in their own way. Elderlies organised 'puja' and 'anusthan' at Pathri Devi temple for the success of the 'son' of their village while youngsters danced on the beats of 'dholak' synchronised with melodious tunes of harmonium and voice of folk artistes by squatting in front of Kovind's ancestral house in the village. 
 
 "We have been praying to the Almighty for Kovindji's victory...we are sure that he will head the nation. It will be a great achievement for him and a proud moment for all of us," said Jaswant Singh, a childhood friend of Kovind and a local of Paraukh village.
 
 It is expected that Ram Nath Kovind will visit Paraukh soon after his victory. "We have planned a grand welcome for him. A grand ceremony will be organised to felicitate him on his success", said Anil Kumar, Kovind's nephew.
 
 "We will raise a grand welcome gate at the village entrance. He will be welcomed with great fanfare. Not only people of Paraukh, but everyone in the region is happy about his expected entry in RashtrapatiBhawan", said Pushpa, another villager.
 
 "There has been non-stop celebration in our village since June 19 as feas. Almost every day the villagers are seen feasting and dancing", said Suresh, native of Paraukh village. 
 
 Kovind's sister-in-law Vidhyawati, who stays in Jhinjhak area of Kanpur Dehat, had thanked God, when her brother-in-law, was sworn-in as governor of Bihar. Little did she realise that he would soon be on the country's top position.
 
 "I have been praying to God since he was nominated for the country's top post. I am sure, Kovindji will win with a comfortable margin," said Vidhyawati. Many villagers have even booked taxis and buses for going to Delhi to meet Kovind in person after results are declared.
 
 The scene was same in the industrial city where enthusiastic people organised a 24-hour long 'hawan' at Vaibhav Lakshmi Mata temple. "We are organising a 24-hour long special puja and 'hawan' here for the health and success of Ram Nath Kovindji," said Anup Kapoor, priest of Vaibhav Lakshmi Mata temple. "If he gets elected, we want him to make his first official visit to Kanpur," Rajendra Gupta told TOI.
 
 Ram Nath Kovind was born October 1, 1945 at Paraukh village in Derapur tehsil of Kanpur Dehat. 
 
 
