Singer-actor-politician   is busy with his political responsibilities, but he managed to spare some time out for his first love - films - to shoot for ' '. In the upcoming Farhan Akhtar-starrer, Manoj Tiwari will be seen playing himself, and he is very excited about it. "I had so much fun playing this part, though it was a single-day shoot. I wouldn't have had so much fun if I had a full-fledged role in the film," says the BJP Delhi chief, adding, "'Lucknow Central' is about optimism. It is about how one should strive to make their dreams come true. Sapne sach hone mein kaynaat lag jati hai, aur jab sapne sach hote hain toh alag hi khushi hoti hai!"

  Not just in the film, Tiwari says in real life too, he has met fans who were in jail and aspired to be like him. He tells us, "Since I tasted stardom in 1996, I have met seven-eight prisoners who told me that they wanted to be a singer. Out of these, some were convicted in false cases, while others resorted to ill activities because of wrong company in jail." 
 
  The Bhojpuri star believes it's not impossible to change someone for good. He says, "Music has the power to transform any person. Everyone has a right to dream, whether they are free or are in jail. Bande qaid ho sakte hain, sapne nahi. One can't bar anyone from dreaming."
 
  The politician, who had contested the 2009 UP elections from Gorakhpur on SP's ticket, shares a special connection with the state and thinks Lucknow is the first city in UP which is thoroughly planned. He says, "For the people who come from the Purvanchal region, Lucknow is the first planned city in their region. It is a big city with all basic amenities and therefore, people aspire to come to the 'tehzeeb ki nagri' and reside there."
 
  Apart from Manoj Tiwari, another Bhojpuri star, Ravi Kishan, is also part of the film. Talking about his camaraderie with his once arch rival, Tiwari says, "We might have been rivals, but it was never like we wanted to cause harm to each other. There was always a healthy competition. We have done a film together in 2006, which also had   ji and   ji. After that, we never got an opportunity to work together. But I really want to do films whenever I get time from politics. I'm planning a film with Ravi Kishan, which will be on floors in February next year and if everything works well, it should be in cinemas by May or June."
 
 
 
  
  
 
  The ex-Bigg Boss contestant is not a 'Bigg Boss' follower now, but thinks that the concept of allowing common people to be a part of the house is a good move. He says, "This is the new India. New India ki kalpana mein common people ko hi hero banaana chahiye. It is a great platform for young people who aspire to become a celebrity."
 
 
  
  
 
