JAIPUR: Sariska leopard attacks may not be a mystery after all. Call it a folly or emotional conservation but the department recently released two ‘man-eater’ (termed) leopards, so long confined in the Jaipur zoo. 

 Experts term this as a mistake as the animal’s behaviour in the wild changes drastically after having lived in captivity.
 
 In hind sight, it was after two attacks on humans, on September 28, 2016 and October 20, 2016 that two leopards were trapped from Sariska on the October 13, 2016 and on November 4, 2016. It was based on the then DFO Balaji Kari’s letter to Dr   CWLW requesting that since these leopards had become very aggressive and started attacking humans, they be kept in the Jaipur zoo. They were even termed as ‘man-eaters’. The leopards were then surgically castrated and kept in the zoo till they were released again in Sariska, allegedly at the behest of senior official, in the Kalighati area of Sariska on January 26 and February 1.
 
 Till then it was all calm and peaceful in Sariska and there was no man-animal conflict. The next attack that happened was when the leopard attacked and killed Virdi a villager in Kalalanka, Sariska on the February 5, 2017. Ever since four attacks took place in an area of about three km and wildlife experts suspect that it could be the job of the leopard released. 
 
 Till yesterday the higher ups in hierarchy denied having sent back the leopards. When TOI spoke with the CWLW they were told out of the two leopards one had succumbed to injuries and the other one was still in the zoo.
 
 But a forest official on conditions of anonymity said it was done under pressure from the higher authorities. “We had asked the officials permission to release the leopards in the wild which the department got in the last week of January. First they were to release them in the Jhalana, but since it was not their territory, it was decided to leave them back in Thanaghazi in Sariska,” said a source in the forest department. This however is taken adversely by the tourism stakeholders in Sariska, who feel it was done more to harm than benefit  .
 
 “It wasn’t a wise thing to do. First a wild animal should not be captured. And even if it was really required it should be left nearest to where it was picked from. Animals have a strong homing instinct and would travel miles just to go back to their territory. In the process they can harm themselves and the people that come in the way,” said Dharmendra Khandal, a conservation biologist.
 
 When spoken to  , forest minister he said, “The leopard was left 50 km away from where it was picked up. How can it go back there so soon?”
 
 The policy to pick and shift animals from their territory and leave them elsewhere should be changed. “The attitude of the animal changes towards humans and they can be more harmful. If they had to leave the animal in the wild then a chip should have been inserted or the leopard should have been radio collared so that the animal could be tracked once left,” he said.
 
