New Delhi: To the young and eager in the 1980s, Chanakya wasn’t just another cinema hall. It was the place to be. Visiting Nirula’s, part of the same structure, was almost mandatory after watching a  .

 Those who didn’t have the taste for the fast food joint’s chicken pot pie or couldn’t afford its salami footlong, just walked over to the dozen odd eateries peddling momos, thukpa and chowmein in the complex.
 
 In those pre-PDA (public display of affection) days, it would be common to see couples lounging in the sun, bodies rarely in touching distance. College students flaunting the latest in street fashion — attires often bought from   — came from all over Delhi. Grunge too was in, especially in JNU. Many came for late-night shows taking DTC’s 062, a late night special, back to the outskirts of the university. At the hostel, a cold dinner, kept on request to the mess staff, awaited them. Sometimes resident cats would have tasted it first.
 
 But Chanakya wasn’t just the blooming generation’s haunt. In those pre-multiplex times, the state-of-the-art theatre was also the preferred choice of the embassy crowd and the city’s urbane gentry. Ramashankar Singh, a seller of paan and cigarettes in the complex for over four decades, says top politicians and actors of the time would visit the theatre though the names, barring Sheila Dikshit, escape his memory. What he remembers clearly is then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi visiting the adjacent commercial complex Yashwant Place. “She used to visit an art gallery accompanied by two cops,” he recalls.
 
 At Yashwant Place, you can buy leather garments, stone jewellery and other things that adorn the lives and living rooms of the well-heeled. The commercial complex was hugely popular among matronly tourists cum business people from the erstwhile Soviet Union. Even today, some shops have their nameplates in Russian.
 
 Chanakya, which had opened in 1970, shut down in 2007. From all accounts, business in shops located in the complex suffered in greater or lesser degree. How much the collapse of Soviet Union and the rise of mall-multiplex culture also contributed to the decline is open to guess.
 
 On Thursday afternoon, when TOI visited Yashwant Place, most shops were bereft of any customers. Bittu Bhatt, employed with a handicraft shop, said sales were down 90% from the times when dozens of ‘foreigner ladies’ would haggle over necklaces and paintings. “We suffered for 10 years. One only hopes business will improve now,” said Singh, who can speak a smattering of Russian too.
 
 With cinema coming back to the Chanakya complex on Friday, Bhatt is guardedly optimistic about an improvement in prospect. “We are hoping that some PVR filmgoers will also visit us and become our customers,” he says. Another shopowner, who sells Chinese food, isn’t so sure. “The multiplex also has a food court. Let us see if some of them come to us,” he says.
 
