BENGALURU: Nearly a third of the rowdysheeters on police radar claim to have reformed but operate under the cover of social work, according to sources in the force. 

 The rowdies claim to have turned over a new leaf by taking to social work as   activists, office bearers of organizations that are overtly driven by religious, linguistic and cultural motives, small-time politicians, middlemen for medical and engineerning colleges and even arbiters in civil disputes. Interestingly, some have even started women’s organizations helmed by women members of their families. 
 
 Police sources said at least 2,700 of 8,956 rowdysheeters say they have reformed and are into social activism. However, in most cases, social work is only a mask for these anti-social elements to indulge in illegal activities.
 
 Citing the case of  , a rowdy-turned-tabloid journalist-turned-social activist, sources said how views about him have always been deceptive. Sridhar’s name had cropped up in the chargesheet in the recent case of the in-house corruption in Lokayukta. According to the chargesheet, the main accused had claimed he entered into a deal with Sridhar to get a top Lokayukta police officer transferred. 
 
 Sridhar is on police radar after unlicensed fire arms were seized from his residence. He is the founder of a Kannada organization and one of its office bearers has been arrested in connection with a threat-to-murder case.
 
 Additional commissioner of police, crime, S Ravi said they will not spare any anti-social elements irrespective of the masks they wear. “Whatever they may profess to be, they are rowdysheeters at the end of the day. We will deal with them legally,” he said.
 
 The racket involving ‘reformed’ rowdies typically works like this. An RTI application is filed either by a rowdy or his associates to know the particulars of government work in a particular locality. After identifying the loopholes in the process, the goon approaches the official concerned and threatens him/her of blowing the whistle on their misdeeds. Most of the times, the officials bow to the pressure and hand over some money to the goon after bargaining. 
 
 The official then becomes part of the ‘reformed’ rowdy’s network and a source for other government projects and corrupt officials, leading to the spread of the extortion racket. 
 
 
