RAJKOT: Middle-order batsman   had earlier in the season mentioned that he wanted to shoulder more responsibility and focus on consistency. For that, he had even compromised on his attacking instincts. On the second day of Mumbai's Ranji Trophy semifinal against Tamil Nadu, No.3 batsman Shreyas Iyer had to be taken to the hospital after he went down with a bout of food poisoning. Yadav walked up to Mumbai coach   and volunteered to fill in.

 Mumbai had to pick up four TN wickets which they did in just over an hour. TN eventually managed to put 305 runs on the board. Shardul Thakur and Abhishek Nayar added a wicket each to their overnight tally of three scalps to wrap up proceedings. In reply, Mumbai were 171-4 at stumps.
 
 Mumbai's innings started just about half an hour before lunch. Debutant Prithvi Shaw took strike and after hitting a boundary to open his account, the youngster perished chasing a wide delivery outside off stump. That's when Yadav, who regularly bats at the number four position, arrived at the crease.
 
 Within minutes off arriving, Yadav started attacking the TN bowlers. He looked in total control and found good support in Praful Waghela, who rotated the strike efficiently. At the tea interval, Mumbai were 111-1.
 
 The situation changed dramatically for Tamil Nadu post-tea. Yadav, frustrated after Tamil Nadu bowlers dried up the runs, got out playing a very ordinary shot to   when he was 73.
 
 Yadav's wicket pumped up TN a great deal. With a brilliant effort in the field, Ta mil Nadu then had opener Waghela (48) run out while stealing a quick single. Siddhesh Lad (0) later holed out to short covers. At 128-4, the situation looked grave for Mumbai. Iyer was forced to join skipper Aditya Tare and the duo saw the day through for Mumbai. When play ended on Day Two of this five-day clash, Tare was batting on 19 and Iyer despite a stomach bug, was batting on 24.
 
 “We sort of regrouped during the tea-break,” Vijay Shankar said post-match.“We gave away too many runs before tea and we desperately wanted to check the flow of runs. It was decided that we would bowl a containing line and we reaped the benefits,” he added.
 
