Life changes drastically after a break-up, and everyone takes their own time to forgive, forget and let go. Sometimes the time is not right, and sometimes the person is not right. But when the relationship is actually over, the only option in hand is to get over this taxing time, and bounce back to life—stronger and smarter! 
 We know it’s easier said than done! Ergo, rather than bombarding you with philosophical stuff, here are some pragmatic and effective ways to fall back in love again—this time with your own life.
 
  
 
  
  
 It is the biggest myth that you can be friends with your ex immediately after you have called it quits. Your first day post break-up should kick start with cutting off all the contacts from your ex, including mutual friends (at least for some time). 
  Challenge yourself to not stalk him online, and use that time in reading interesting articles, watching cool tutorials, binge watching your favourite series, rediscovering your hobbies, or whatever that floats your boat.
 
  
 
  
  
 Investing time in a relationship generally makes you ignore your own friend circle, and this is the perfect time to mend this mistake. Whether you have the ‘love of your life’ in your life or not, your buddies should always be there. Catch up with them and plan a fun outing. It’s a gentle reminder to you that your life can be awesome without him/her as well. 
 
  
 
  
  
 Since now you have the time to completely focus on yourself, make a mental note to become the best version of yourself in the coming months. Gear up to get into your fittest (and sexiest) avatar ever, and start working towards this goal. A fit body and healthy mind will distract you from all that happened in the past, and amp up your confidence level like never before. 
 
  
 
  
  
 If you religiously follow the stuff above, you’ll eventually start feeling more optimistic and happy in life. And once you have reached this stage, it’s the time to take a solo trip. The idea may seem scary initially, but it will all be worth it. 
  The trip will help you to spend some ‘me’ time, and rediscover the purpose of your life—amidst surreal mountains or a sunny beach. Assess your present situation, take some valuable lessons from your past, and chart out a future plan. Realise your dreams, set new goals, and go fetch them! This trip will completely cut you off from your regular routine for some time, and will charge you up to deal with your life ahead like a total boss. 
 
  
 
 
  
 This one is your secret and the most effective weapon to get over this tumultuous time. Nobody understands you better than yourself, and writing down whatever that goes in your head in a journal is a great idea. Trust us here, give it a try. This practice is really comforting and helps you to find solutions yourself. 
  Plus, it will help you to air your views unabashedly, and no one will ask you stupid questions in return. Ahoy!
 
 (Images: Shutterstock)
 
 
