CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday issued notice to advocate R K Anand on a plea filed by media mogul   seeking dismissal of his election petition challenging his (Chandra’s) election as   member on the grounds that petition was not been filed in a prescribed format. 

 Anand has been asked to file reply on March 15 on the contentions raised by Chandra.
 
 In his plea, Chandra submitted that election petition filed by Anand has alleged corrupt practice and questioned election process for the Rajya Sabha seat held on June 11, 2016.
 
 Appearing for Chandra, former additional solicitor general of India and senior advocate Mohan Jain argued that as per the mandatory provisions of the law under Section 83 (1) of the Representation of People Act, 1951 where the election petitioner alleges any corrupt practice, the petitioner is bound to file an affidavit along with the election petition in the prescribed form in support of the allegation of such corrupt practice and the particulars thereof.
 
 The counsel specified that Section 83 (1) (c) of the Representation of People Act, 1951 read with Rule 94-A of The Conduct of Elections Rules, 1961, clearly stipulates that the affidavit should be filed along with the petition in prescribed form “FORM 25”. But Anand has not filed any such affidavit in the prescribed format.
 
 “As per provisions of law and the law settled by the  , since the petitioner alleged serious allegations in the petition, he has to specifically mention his allegation in the affidavit as prescribed in Form 25,” Jain argued, while seeking dismissal of Anand’s petition.
 
 Election for the two seats of RS from Haryana was held on June 11, 2016. Anand, who was backed by INLD and  , has been alleging that he had learnt through reliable sources that Chandra had met the returning officer at the   in the presence of several people a day before the election. He alleged that Chandra was shown the pen – a violet-coloured sketch pen – that was to be used for marking votes on ballot papers the following day. Anand stated that the official pen was removed from the polling area in a clandestine and dishonest manner in an effort to sabotage the election.
 
 
