PANAJI: I-League champions   have warned the   ( ) that they are willing to go to any length to ensure that they feature in the new unified top-tier league next season.

 Aizawl scripted the greatest-ever triumph in Indian football by winning the I-League, India's premier football competition, against all odds on Sunday but have since been rocked by news that they will not have a chance to defend their title. Next season, the AIFF along with marketing partners IMG-Reliance hope to launch a new unified league which will have all eight existing franchises from the ISL and three I-League teams.
 
 Despite Aizawl winning the I-League, they are not assured of a place in the top tier simply because they do not have the financial muscle to compete in the ISL. The AIFF too have made this clear as they have openly engaged in talks with  , East Bengal and  , while leaving the rest out of the equation.
 
 Aizawl will be relegated to the second tier which club president   told AIFF in an official letter on Tuesday is totally unfair and unacceptable.
 
 "Amidst unprecedented success, it has been widely reported that AIFF is intending to include three I-League clubs, Mohun Bagan, East Bengal and Bengaluru FC, while it is silent on the inclusion of the reigning champions Aizawl FC in the proposed top league. It would be totally unfair and unacceptable to relegate the champions of the top league due to its merger with unrecognized 'inter-city' tournament," club president Robert Royte wrote in a letter to AIFF president   on Tuesday.
 
 Aizawl FC won the I-League with an estimated budget of Rs 2.5 crore while franchises in the ISL are understood to have incurred a minimum loss of Rs 25 crore in each of the three seasons so far. All participating franchises pay the organizers anywhere between Rs 12 to Rs 18 core as participation fee every year. "We will do whatever it takes to ensure that Aizawl play in the top league. There is every possibility that there will be protests, hunger strikes and fast unto death across the country and even abroad. We will do everything," the club president told TOI after dispatching the letter.
 
 
