CHENNAI: A galaxy of stars, including   and  , landed on the grounds of the state actors union (Nadigar Sangam) at T Nagar on Friday to lay foundation for the long-awaited headquarters building. The old headquarters building, inaugurated by former chief minister and actor M G Ramachandran in 1977, was demolished in 2011 when Sarathkumar and Radha Ravi headed the sangam. 

 Speaking at the ceremony, Rajinikanth said, "This is a victory. It will continue." The current office-bearers Nasser and Vishal came to power in October 2015 on the election promise that they will construct the headquarters building. 
 
 Kamal Haasan, who had nominated the candidacy of Nasser for the post of president, said, "I am happy about the unity among the actors here. This building will be a fortress for actors."
 
 South Indian Artistes' Association (Nadigar Sangam) general secretary Vishal said that construction of the headquarters building will be completed at a cost of 26 crore by September 2018. 
 
 The building will comprise of a marriage hall, an auditorium, a preview theatre among other facilities. Rent earned from the facilities will be used to fund welfare schemes for the 3,000-odd film and stage actors who are members of the sangam. "We are expecting revenue of about 50 lakh per month." 
 
 The sangam had organised a star cricket event last year to raise funds to cover construction cost. Vishal and Karthi (treasurer) have agreed to raise 10 crore by acting in a film. 
 
 The grand inauguration event has been organised just two days prior to the Tamil Film Producers Council election. Vishal is contesting for president in the April 2 poll. In the run up to the poll, contestants like Vishal and Prakash Raj made visits to Delhi to offer support to   famers who are protesting for waiving of farmer loans.
 
 The foundation-laying ceremony was attended by leading actors and representatives from the South Indian Chamber of Commerce, Film Employees Federation of South India (FEFSI) and other cinema unions.
 
 The film personalities in attendance included Sivakumar, Vikram, Suriya, Sivakarthikeyan, Simbu, , Jayam Ravi, Prakash Raj, Vijayakumar, Sathyaraj, Baghyaraj, Pyramid Natarajan, Sundar C, Sachu, Dhanishka, Mansoor Ali Khan, producer A L Alagappan, directors K S Ravikumar, R K Selvamani and S P Muthuraman.
 
 After demolition of the old headquarters building, Sarathkumar and Radha Ravi signed a 30-year lease with Sathyam Cinemas (SPI Group). The multiplex chain group was to construct a seven-storey complex but Vishal terminated the lease contract since coming to power 18 months ago.
 
 Nadigar Sangam which was formed in 1952 functioned under a thatched roof until 1972 when its president Sivaji Ganesan raised the need for a permanent solid structure. It was producer and director K Subrahmanyam who came up the idea of bringing artists together under a body during the 1930s. 
 
 Subrahmanyam who directed the likes of M K Thyagaraja Bhagathavar was one of the founding members of Nadigar Sangam.
 
 
