NEW DELHI: At least 43 children and teens below 18 get killed everyday in road crashes in India, according to the latest National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data. Though there is no specific category to monitor their share, it’s evident that a substantial number of these are in the school going age.

 NCRB data also shows that Uttar Pradesh had the maximum number of children and teens killed in road crashes in 2015 - 2,610 out of total fatalities of 15,633. Traffic safety experts said the increasing number of such incidents reveals the existing policy gaps with regard to  , especially the safety of this highly vulnerable road users group. 
 
 The existing central Motor Vehicles Act (MVA) has no provisions to address the safety of children. Though the government has introduced amendments to the law incorporating stricter provisions for traffic offences and also has provisions for protection of children, but it has been languishing with the parliamentary standing committee for the past five months.
 
 "There is no regulation of school buses, their drivers and conductors... We urgently need major reforms in the way our children are transported and their safety on the roads. Stricter penalties for traffic offences involving children, regulation of school buses, vans and other vehicles which children use for commute to school, and most importantly, accountability of drivers and conductors need to be defined in law and strictly enforced," said Saji Cherian of  , an NGO working in this field said.
 
 Though automotive standards for school buses have been laid, which every manufacturer is bound to adhere to before a vehicle is rolled out the factory, officials admit that there is lack of monitoring by the agencies concerned that these meet the norms while plying on roads. 
 
 Since regulation and enforcement lie with the states, the Centre has so far confined itself to issuing guidelines. Following two major fatal crashes in 2011, it had advised states to include provision of mandatory annual fitness test of vehicles as a permit condition besides ensuring installation of speed limit device. 
 
 Terming Thursday’s school bus episode in Etah as one of the saddest days of Indian road safety history, road safety expert Rohit Baluja said, "The central government should create a school bus transport policy."
 
 
