NEW DELHI: The wait for a long flight to land could never have been more desperate than for the almost 340 people on board Air India’s   nonstop on Saturday. A   777 was released for the 16-hour journey with four toilets closed before take off itself and ALL the remaining eight others also packing up by the time it was a good two hours away from the destination!

 The condition of passengers on the aircraft – that had 324 adults and seven infants as passengers apart from 16 crew members – was understandably bad as the plane had taken off at 2 am in the morning from Delhi. A hearty breakfast, full meal and alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages were served during the course of the flight. First there were long queues at the eight operational toilets and then there were no queues as all the lavs were unusable!
 
 Things got so bad that hectic parleys went on between the cockpit and AI operations whether it should divert to Toronto. It was decided that the plane will continue to its destination where it landed with the toilets closed and most on board holding on to their full bladders and stomach!
 
 “The Boeing 777-300 (VT-ALJ) flew into Delhi from Hyderabad on Friday night. Four of its 12 toilets were clogged and we tried to clear them by nitrogen flushing but could not do so. Since the aircraft was booked to take a full of passengers to Chicago from Delhi and no alternate aircraft could be arranged at such a short notice, it was felt that the eight servicable toilets will be enough for the journey and the plane was released under minimum equipment list (meaning with an issue that can be tackled later),” said a senior AI official.
 
 But this calculation proved very wrong. By the time the plane crossed the Atlantic and was over Canada (AI nonstop flights take the polar route between India and America’s east coast over the Atlantic), the other toilets started packing up. When about one or two hours away from the destination, ALL the toilets got full and could not be used.
 
 All those on board – passengers and crew – then had no option but to just hold tight and wait for the plane to land at Chicago O’Hare Airport to get access to toilets.
 
 “In Delhi we tried to clear the four toilets using nitrogen flushing. But the toilet pipes were choked with passengers flushing all kinds of stuff like plastic bottles and sanitary napkins into the toilets. Opening up the system would have taken time and so the plane was released under MEL. Now once it lands in Chicago, the plane will be grounded and the toilets serviced in entirety. It will be released for the flight back to Delhi only after the entire system is clear,” said an official.
 
 AI has now decided that it will not release an aircraft for a full passenger-load long flight ever again in the future. “It was a learning for us. Airlines in some parts of the world, including India, face the issue of passengers flushing all kinds of stuff in toilets that leads to choking,” said the official.
 
 This is not the first time that AI long flights have faced toilet troubles, raising questions over maintenance. Last August, its Newark-Mumbai nonstop with over 300 people on board had to make an unschedule stop at Istanbul as none of the toilets on the plane were flushing. And before that, an Australia-Delhi flight had to be grounded in Sydney due to all toilets getting clogged.
 
 
