Nagpur: For the first time in the corporation’s history, an adjournment motion was tabled in the general body. It was moved, on Thursday, by Congress corporator Praful Gudadhe who demanded a discussion on the heavy rains that lashed the city on July 17 and 18. After the general body question (GBQ) hour, Gudadhe asked mayor Nanda Jichkar to take a decision on the discussion. 

 But the BJP-led ruling alliance declined to allow the discussion. Condemning the ruling group, Congress corporators alleged Jichkar was inexperienced in running the House affairs and had also violated norms.
 
 Ruling party leader Sandip Joshi said discussion should be held after decisions are taken on proposals on the agenda. Jichkar accepted Joshi’s demand while ignoring Gudadhe. 
 
 Gudadhe alleged that Jichkar was violating the general body norms and tore up rules to run the general body in the well of the house. Gudadhe and Congress corporators began sloganeering. Jichkar began reading proposals on the agenda and announced all of them as approved. Later she adjourned the meeting sine die.
 
 Gudadhe later told reporters the ruling alliance had run away from discussion fearing being exposed. “Jichkar should have gone for voting if she did not want discussion,” he said.
 
 On the other hand, Joshi said mayor refused discussion as Congress corporators were not ready for it after discussion proposals on the agenda. “Gudadhe was supposed to give notice of adjournment motion an hour before commencement of house but he submitted it only at 11.30am.” he said.
 
 Gudadhe clarified he had sent notice to mayor, civic chief and secretary at 9.30am through mail and message.
 
 Congress corporator Harshala Sable said NMC was supposed to conduct inspection along with district administration’s team to assess loss due to heavy rains. “State government gives compensation in case of loss due to 65mm or more rainfall. City witnessed 135mm rainfall on July 17,” she said.
 
 District administration officials told TOI no compensation or survey will be done as preliminary report after July 17 rains revealed no loss to life or property in the city. 
 
 
