CHENNAI: The   on the properties of state health minister C Vijayabaskar has left the OPS camp buoyant and the   camp on a fire-fighting mode.Barely 24 hours before campaign ends, the poll plank for one of the fiercely fought by-elections in the state has shifted from the death of J Jayalalithaa to the IT raids.

 The raids couldn't have come at a better time for the rebel   led by  . The political fodder yielded by IT department's searches in one of the senior minister's residence has come as a huge morale booster for the rebel AIADMK camp.
 
 But the T T V Dhinakaran camp appears unfazed by the raids and continued with the campaign with confidence.Dhinakaran added starpower to his campaign on Sunday with actors Sarathkumar and   vigorously de fending them.
 
 “The raids will bear no impact on the voter perception or the election outcome. People in R K Nagar know we will deliver the promises given to them on improving their livelihood rather than get swayed by such raids,'' said V K Sasikala camp's IT wing secretary V V R Raj Sathyan.
 
 AIADMK men say they will not just win the battle of perception but also the election. The Dhinakaran camp says even if the EC counter mands the bypoll, it wouldn't be a setback for them. “Annan Dhinakaran would have more time to meet people of the constituency ,“ said a senior AIADMK functionary .
 
 Though using a dummy of Jayalalithaa's mortal remains during the election campaign backfired, the OPS camp leaders hope there is a groundswell of opposition to Dhinakaran, especially after the raids.
 
 “As far as we are concerned, the election should be held as scheduled. Allegations of bribing voters, though, should be inquired by CBI to expo se the corrupt,'' O Panneerselvam, campaigning for his candidate E Madhusudhanan, told reporters.
 
 “Our victory was sealed even before the raids. But now, people outside R K Nagar have also realized the corrupt designs of Sasikala faction,'' said an MLA from OPS camp.
 
 As Jayalalithaa's death has turned out to be the poll plank for election, the DMK joined the bandwagon raising the pitch. On Sunday , DMK working president M K Stalin alleged there was mystery in Jayalalithaa's death. “The first thing that the DMK government will do when it comes to power is to institute a probe into her death,“ Stalin said.
 
 The BJP clung to I-T raids in its campaigns on Sunday , demanding a through inquiry into allegations of voter bribing. On Sunday , Pon Radhakrishnan who campaigned in the constituency , said candidates “found to be bribing voters should be debarred from contesting elections for life.“
 
