What was supposed to be another inspirational speech from the   Bhupendrasinh Chudasama during the 6th GTU convocation which was held last week, turned out to be a major embarrassment for him. The minister was in for a rude shock as the   kept failing while he was addressing the crowd. Chudasama’s speech got interrupted thrice due to a poor sound set up which enraged him; the education minister has asked GTU authorities not to pay the organiser for the sound set up.

 The minister could be heard complaining, ‘Vadharano awaj bandh karvane badle, maaro avaj bandh karo cho’ (Instead of blocking external noises from the background, you are blocking my own voice). “The convocation is a grand event where various dignitaries are present. It was embarrassing to be interrupted due to sound issues, that too not once but thrice. I have clearly told GTU authorities not to pay the bill for sound system,” said Chudasama.
 
 Sources from GTU said, “There was a crowd of around 8,000 people in the convocation. As it is there were many operational snags and to top it off the loud speakers were not loud enough to carry the sound till the end of the ground. The organiser should have kept a stabilizer. Chudasama has asked us not to pay the bill for sound.”
 
 
 
 
 The   was to the tune of Rs 35 lakh while the bill for sound management is around Rs1.18 lakh. Before leaving the venue, Chudasama had informed GTU in-charge Registrar JC Lilani not to make any payments for sound. VC of GTU Navin Sheth said, “The minister has communicated with the in-charge registrar that the payment is not to be made for sound set up. But I will have to go through the terms and conditions of the tender. I will also have to look into the explanation provided by the organiser.
 
 Only then I will take the decision if the payment needs to be cut or not.” JC Lilani refused to comment . Hemendra Bagdi, owner of Kunal Décor and Events Private Ltd, has been the organiser for all the last six convocations at GTU. He had also organised convocations at Gujarat University. He said, “After all it is a machine and at times it becomes difficult to control it. The main reason behind the sound issue was power fluctuation, as we drew power directly from the private power company. Despite fluctuations, we ensured that the speeches were not interrupted.”
 
