Proud of her Telugu roots, Suchitra never loses an opportunity to remind people of her Teluguness. “Often people think I am a Tamilian but my mother tongue is Telugu,” she says, adding, “I have even included a few Telugu lines in  !”
Returning to   after a long sabbatical, Suchitra admits that enacting the play based on her memoir, Drama Queen, was an “exciting and nervous” experience for her. “Hyderabad is the second city where the play is being performed after Mumbai. This city is my second home, my family lives here and I visit them often. So it’s only natural that I perform here. We’ll be touring India after this,” Suchitra says.
 The play is an unabashed and unapologetic take on the five eventful years post her divorce from actor-director  . It touches upon her   fame, emotional ups and downs, all in a highly dramatised manner.
 Suchitra shares, “The book and the play are exactly what was on my mind, but highly dramatised versions of it — like an exaggerated reality. And they do play out very well on stage. Most of it is indeed a part of my life and even many characters are real ones. Some of them were gracious enough to let me use their real names too,” adding with a grin, “I realised how much of a drama queen I have been while writing the play!” 
 But, she admits that enacting intimate and emotional moments of her life on stage was a daunting task. “I just focused on my creative ventures instead of getting into their emotional backgrounds. I have made mistakes in my past and when I feel I was wrong, I made amends too; I don’t hesitate to apologise,” she says, adding, “You know, I think all of us worry too much about what other people think about us. Instead, we should think more about ourselves. We should lead life according our best abilities.”
 May be Suchitra is doing exactly that; singing, acting, dancing and writing — fully immersing herself to untrodden paths where her imagination could take her. “ I am a very restless person and I have to be doing a number of things at the same time. I cannot stay idle to save my life,” she says.
 When asked what she enjoys doing the most — write, sing, dance or act? Suchitra says, “I can’t choose!” They are all a part of my personality. Just like in the play, all of those sides of mine had to come out to complete the act. I don’t think I would be able to let go of any of them,” before signing off.
 
