NAGPUR: The Nagpur bench of   has issued contempt notice to Maharashtra Airport Development Corporation (MADC) and its concessionaire,   Group, for violating the status quo granted by the HC in case of Mihan-based Kloud   Labs.

 Kloud Data had entered into an agreement with MADC and obtained office space in Mihan’s central building in December 2010. MADC had promised uninterrupted power supply at the rate of Rs2.97 per unit to all consumers in Mihan on the basis of its agreement with Abhijeet Group. MADC had signed a concession agreement with Abhijeet in November 2007, wherein it was agreed that latter will supply power at the rate of Rs2.97 per unit to all the consumers.
 
 Kloud Data has alleged that Abhijeet failed to supply power at the stipulated rate. It further charged that MADC was involved in illegal trading of electricity as it has, without proper tariff order, supplied power to the consumers in Mihan after buying it from MSEDCL.
 
 Kloud Data was billed by MADC to the tune of Rs14 lakhs during the period May 2011 to January 2013 at the rate of Rs13 per unit. Therefore, the company filed a civil suit against the billing. The civil court granted status quo in July 2013 but the suit was dismissed in April 2015. The petitioner filed first appeal to challenge the order of civil court and got a status quo from the HC in October 2015. However, in spite of the status quo, MADC raised several bills with the disputed amount and also issued a disconnection notice in October 2016.
 
 Kloud Data’s counsel   contended that MADC had violated the orders of the HC as well as breached its own submission that tariff was regulated by clause 14.1 of “concession agreement” and power was to be supplied at the rate of Rs.2.97 per unit to industries in Mihan. Sending disconnection notice in October 2016, thereby threatening the consumer, amounts to contempt of court in the backdrop of the status quo granted by the HC. The HC issued notice before admission in this contempt petition and asked replies to be filed by April 21, 2017.
 
 
