BY- Shrinivas Sharangpani

 Sometimes, you come across some great individ ual without knowing who that person really is. And then, much later, you realize that the person had you had met was a great personality. Then you recall the whole incident and that is called a total recall. Total recall one
 
 I was reading a book in my hostel room -obviously a borrowed one. We didn't have the luxury of buying books then. It was a thick book--some 1,000 pages or so. Those days, I was reading novels by Irving Wallace, Arthur Hailey or even Chase and short stories by Maupassant or Chekov . Not to forget, there was science fiction too. With much effort, I readied myself to read that enormous historical treatise -I was asked by the owner to finish it in four to five days. I wondered because he himself had urged me to read it and it was he who asked me to finish it pronto. The title of the chronicle was The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich, by William Shirer.
 
 To my surprise, I could finish the book before its owner's deadline. I was overwhelmed. I had never before read such an engrossing narrative. Towards the end, I discovered how Marshal Georgy Zhukov, the Russian general, achieved the siege of Berlin and the eventual fall of the Third Reich.
 
 That was the first total recall. My mind raced back in time some 12 years. I was an eight-year-old boy and we had come to stay in our newly-built house on   just three years before. One day , my mother told me to go out (we were staying on the first floor) and stand on the kerb as a Russian dignitary was set to pass by in a convoy. I didn't know who the dignitary was until my mother told me his name -Marshal Zhukov .
 
 I stood there on the kerb. A sizeable crowd lined both sides of the road. Those days, it was a two-way road and the traffic wasn't even one-tenth of what it is today . There wasn't any banister either and the traffic was diverted for the procession. A few moments later, a motorcade turned up and a couple of vehicles passed in front of me. Then, inside an open car, I saw Marshal Zhukov in the rear seat. I think he was wearing an army uniform. The car then stopped -right there in front of me. Instinctively, I waved. Marshal Zhukov looked intently at me and smiled. He waved back. The car started moving, but Marshal Zhukov turned his head and smiled at me again before going out of sight. People were showering him with flowers and there was quite a bit of noise. Though Zhukov impressed me, I didn't know who he was nor did I ask my parents. Perhaps I would not have understood his role in history even if they had told me.
 
 Years later, when I read about his heroics in World War 2, in the book, I realized it was him -perhaps the greatest hero in contemporary history .And I had waved at him as a child. I felt goose-bumps on my whole body . I was one of the luckiest persons in the world to have seen this conqueror from such a close distance.
 
 
 
 It was 2010 and I was touring   with some people. On a pleasant morning, we visited Moscow. Our bus halted at a distance from   and we walked up to it. It is really an imposing view. On one side is Lenin's Mausoleum (which we could not see because of long queue); behind it was Kremlin; and on the opposite side was a nice mall. On the far side, was the notorious execution site behind which is a cathedral and beyond it... the Moskva river.But at the entrance on the northern side is an imposing equestrian statue of a warrior.
 
 As I was moving towards the centre of Red Square, I noticed this grand statue. I looked at the plaque on the pedestal and once again, my heart started thumping. On the bronze plaque was inscribed the name of the great warrior -Marshal Zhukov . The inscription was in Russian but I had enough knowledge of the language to understand what was written there. I was looking at the statue of my hero after having come face-to-face with him half-a-century ago.
 
 I couldn't stop myself and told my co-tourists that I had once seen this great man. Few guys in the group knew who Marshal Zhukov was and they were not convinced. I then told them the whole story . But that didn't ease the skepticism.
 
 I mustered enough courage, stood in front of the statue and gave a speech. It was maybe a half-a-minute speech in English, intermingled with some broken Russian.
 
 “I am proud to have seen this great soldier from very near and we exchanged pleasantries. Eto moi tovarisch. (He is my friend)...“ I talked about how he had saved the world with the siege of Berlin and in the end, thanked our lady guide by saying, “Spasibo za pomosh, moya podruga (thanks for your help [in bringing us here], my lady friend)." She appreciated my speech and shook my hands.
 
 Back home, I did receive a call from one of the skeptics.He said he was sorry to have cast aspersions on my story . Obviously , he had checked if Marshal Zhukov was ever really in Pune in 1957. But I didn't care -the memory of a smiling and waving Marshal Zhukov was etched in my mind forever.
 
 (The writer is an expert in innovation and product development)
 
