MANGALURU: For budding engineers across the country who want to have a sneak peek into the National Institute of Technology, Karnataka, Surathkal, here is an opportunity. The country’s premier institution will offer an all-paid month-long `The NITK -Summer Internship Program (NITK-SIP)’. 

 NIT-K, Surathkal is the only NIT in the country to offer a  . According to NIT-K officials, the NITK-SIP programme will take 50   from non-NIT colleges into various departments in the institution from across the country. “The aim of this internship is to make budding engineers industry-ready, and also train them in their interested area. Since students waste their holidays doing nothing, this programme helps them utilize time and energy fruitfully,” says K N Lokesh, director (in-charge), NIT-K, Surathkal.
 
 The selected students will get an opportunity to work on research mini-projects under the mentorship of NIT-K faculty from May 22 to July 5. With increased demand for NITK-SIP over the years, the intake was increased to 50 last year.
 
 Students who are completing the third year (or sixth semester) BTech/ BE, and students completing the first year (or second semester) of MTech/ ME/ MSc/ MBA are eligible to apply for NITK-SIP. Selection will be made based on academic performance. 
 
 During internship, the students will be given a stipend of Rs 200 per day. Prasad Krishna, dean, Alumni Affairs and Institutional Relations, said a stipend of Rs 100 per day will be paid to each student during the contact period, and Rs 100 as food allowance. The interns will be provided access to the library and computer centre on the campus. Accommodation will be provided to students in its hostels. A faculty mentor will be allotted to each student selected for internship, from the relevant department. On successful completion of the project, the intern will be awarded a commendation certificate by NIT-K, added Prasad. 
 
 Send research proposals
 
 Interested candidates must send research proposal along with the application form and necessary enclosures by speed post to the head of the department where the student wishes to do the internship before May 4. For details, log into: www.nitk.ac.in. 
 
 
