KOLKATA: The Airports Authority of India’s (AAI) decision to revoke the clearances issued to two skyscrapers and order demolition of several floors has sent tremors through the industry. While AAI claimed the buildings came in the way of its navigational aids, developers are shocked at the “irrationality” of the order and questioned why the original height was cleared when it posed a threat to flight safety.

 ‘The 42’, the city’s tallest   in Chowringhee, has to demolish 12 floors while the 141-metre ‘The V Kolkata’, a service apartment in  , has to do away with five floors. Both developers — a consortium in ‘The 42’ and Shristi in ‘The V’ — have moved Delhi high court with former finance minister   arguing their case. 
 
 The   Act, 1994, requires tall buildings to get plans approved by AAI. The latter issues NOC for five years, which is usually extended for three years. But in a departure from the usual practice, AAI revised the approved height when ‘The 42’ and ‘The V’ sought extension. “The location of a radar (MSSR) and a VHF Omni Directional Radio Range were shifted within the airport, requiring a fresh assessment. Both the buildings were obstructing signals. Had the construction been over, we would have had to accept them,” said an AAI official. 
 
 Developers find the logic hard to swallow.   of Alcove — a part of the ‘The 42’ consortium — reasoned, it is impossible for any skyscraper to finish construction in five years. “The AAI approval is the first. There are scores of others approvals. Expecting a building taller than 20 stories to complete construction in the three remaining years is ridiculous,” said Shroff. 
 
 While ‘The 42’ has moved the high court this March, Shristi are battling the case for over two years. “I could have understood the rationale had the originally approved height been flouted. But to demand a change midway through a project because navigational aids were repositioned at the airport doesn’t make sense,” an official said.
 
 Construction of ‘The 42’ began in 2012 and 95% of its work was completed by the time the revised NOC came in January. Ditto for ‘The V’ when they received the new height restriction in 2014. It had started construction in 2009. Developers pointed out that no company would agree to reduce height midway. “In 100 years of AAI’s existence, it has never done something like this. Why do something so bizarre now?” wondered Shroff.
 
 Interestingly, AAI has no issues with   that is an identical tower next to ‘The V’.
 
