HUBBALLI: NMR Curie Centre will organize a free health check-up camp at is premises behind Revankar Maruthi showroom, TB Road, Deshpande Nagar, Hubballi, on Sunday. Doctors will screen participants for ENT related problems. A random blood sugar test will also be done. Call: 9901737332.

  Dance performance: Students of Radhakrishna Academy of Fine Arts and Education and Prerana Dance School performed bharatanatyam and folk dance during the cultural programmes organized by Sri Siddharoodha Mutt and Kannada and culture department on Friday. Danseuses Manish Shindhe and Prerana Shindhe were felicitated by the trust committee members. Committee chairman  , members Jyoti Salimath, Yellappa Doddamani, Mahendra Singhi and others were present on the occasion. 
 
  Blood donation camp: 
 
 A blood donation camp was organized at all the three units of Jinabakul Forge Limited factory at Honaga Industrial Area. Dr Ashvini, head of public health department,  , and team collected the blood and briefed about the advantages of blood donation. Managing director Gopal Jinagouda, Kiran Jinagouda and others were present.
 
  Lecture on budget: 
 
 Prabhuddha Bharat, Belagavi, will organize a special lecture on 'Union budget 2017-18 and global economic crisis: Implications on India' at KLEs centeneary hall on Saturday at 6pm. Professor of finance and controller Dr Vaidyanathan will deliver the keynote address.  , chairman, CIRC of ICAI, Belagavi, will be chief guest.
 
  Tatkal special train: 
 
 Railways will run a weekly tatkal express special train between Yeshwantpur and Visakhapatnam to clear extra rush of passengers. Train No. 06579 will depart from Yeshwantpur at 18.35hrs on all Fridays from March 3 to June 30 and arrive at Visakhapatnam at 14.35hrs on all Saturdays. Train No. 06580 will depart from from Visakhapatnam at 13.45hrs on all Sundays from March 5 to June 25 and arrive at Yeshwantpur at 09.05hrs on all Mondays. 
 
  Painting exhibition: The Hubballi Round Table will organize a painting exhibition 'Art for Heart-2017' on Sunday at Hotel Gateway. MLA Arvind Bellad will inaugurate the event at 11.30am. Over 100 works of eight eminent artistes will be on display. The price of the paintings ranges from Rs 2,500 to Rs 15,000. The money generated from sales will be used for charity and social work, said  , president, Hubballi Round Table. There is no entrance fee for the public, he added. 
 
