BENGALURU: Taxi-hailing aggregators Ola and Uber and their driver-partners have been given three days to resolve their differences, failing which the government will intervene.

 The directive was issued at a meeting covened by the transport department with Ola and Uber representatives and aggrieved driver unions at its   on Wednesday evening. After the tripartite meeting, department officials met the aggregator representatives and drivers separately.
 
 “Many of the concerns raised are about things which can be worked out between the drivers and the companies. Why do they have to take to the streets? There are a few issues which come under the  , like sharing of cabs and operating with a white licence plate, which are not allowed. We will wait till Monday and then intervene,” said MK Aiyappa, transport commissioner.
 
 The drivers stayed off the roads on Monday, disrupting cab services across the city. About 60 drivers from Ola and Uber registered with various unions voiced their grievances against the companies. They demanded the cabs must be equipped with meters displaying the distance and fare. They accused cab aggregators of using a system of “software and leasing mafia” to oppress drivers. Discussions between department officials and drivers revealed that the latter didn’t have a copy of their contract agreements, which are in English.
 
 “We don’t have the copies so we don’t know what we are entitled to. When we dial the call centre number seeking a solution, we are either made to wait for long or the representatives say they are facing some software trouble. When we go there in person, we are roughed up by the bouncers. We are not getting any money from the surge pricing system,” said a driver, echoing the others’ views. 
 
 Ola and Uber representatives were unable to provide satisfactory answers. At first, Uber representatives refused to negotiate with the unions, stating the grievances could be addressed during  . However, they later told the transport commissioner they would talk to the drivers.
 
 ‘Will seek suspension of ops’
 
 Tanveer Pasha, state head of the Ola, Taxi4Sure, Uber Owners and Drivers Association, said the drivers will have no choice but to resort to illegal means to get what they want, if a truce is not reached by Monday. The lives of thousands of people are at stake, he said.
 
 “We will submit 50,000 applications to the court asking for the temporary suspension of the companies’ operations. They are playing with the lives of drivers and their families. If nothing happens by Monday, the companies must bear the responsibility for the consequences,” he said.
 
