KOCHI:   operators in the city are having a tough time as people living in the city's   object to sourcing of water from depleting sources.
 
  drinking water tankers welfare association president Sakir Husein said that there was an increased demand from apartment complexes for water supplied through tankers.
 
 “When we draw more water from the sources located in suburbs, it affects water level in the wells of nearby houses in the region. Due to lack of rains, groundwater is not recharged. Residents fear drought, and raise objection against tanker trucks drawing water from their region," he said.
 
 The tankers mainly depend on regions in Aluva, Kalamassery , Kakkanad, Thiruvankulam and Tripunithura for sourcing drinking water.They said that quality water is available in these regions.
 
 “Though most flats have one  's (KWA) connection, this water is used only in kitchen. This is limited supply ," he said adding for all other needs they depend on groundwater or rain water.
 
 “In this situation, they are forced to depend on tankers and we are also helpless," said Husein.
 
 There are about 400 water tanker trucks operating in Ernakulam.
 
 Ali P A, joint secretary of the welfare association, said several panchayats have issued stop memo against sourcing water from their regions.Others have imposed severe time restrictions.
 
 “While they allow us to draw water during day time, it is not allowed at night," he said. It is pointed out that there are many apartments in the city which do not have a KWA connection. In such cases, residents have to buy drinking water.
 
 “It is yet unclear whether the cost of water would increase in the coming days," said Reni James, a resident of a city apartment.
 
 A 2,000L-capacity tanker charges around Rs 700 to supply water to the city . The cost increases as distance increases. KWA's bay at Aluva supplies water to tankers at a cost of Rs 60 for 1,000L.
 
 As there are only two bays, it is not possible for all 400 tankers in the district to source water from the bay.
 
 
