On Monday, AIADMK general secretary   railed against the  , took on chief minister O Panneerselvam, and hinted that the BJP ruled Centre was responsible for the delay in her taking over as the chief minister of Tamil Nadu ­all in an apparent effort to assert her position and project herself as the successor to J Jayalalithaa.

 Sasikala sought to portray herself as not just an aide to Jayalalithaa but an associate who gave Jayalalithaa strength and sage political advice. Jayalalithaa had decided to quit politics after she was pushed off the gun carriage, beaten, abused and insulted during the funeral procession of the party founder MGR, she said. “I begged her to continue," she said.
 
 In the morning, Sasikala addressed hundreds of cadres at her Poes Garden residence - twice within the space of an hour. “Amma was a perfectionist. There was no place in Tamil Nadu she hadn't visited. She worked to build the party. Today, the AIADMK has more than one crore cadres. I always encouraged her.“
 
 Sasikala said at least five ministers, including O Panneeselvam, wanted her to be the CM on the night Jayalalithaa died. But she had refused since the CM post did not seem important to her. “I am telling you this because you should know. You were not there at that time. I wanted to be by the side of Amma's body," she said. But after seeing the easy camaraderie between OPS and the rival DMK, she decided to make a bid for the CM post, she said to cadres amidst thundering applause. She said chief minister Panneerselvam was an ordinary man and he was raised to his current position by Jayalalithaa. “He is now trying to divide the AIADMK.He has proved he was never a loyalist," she said.
 
 After addressing the cadres, she drove down to Koovathur, toured the village before she went to the resort, where she decided to spend the night. “They (OPS camp) have been threatening women MLAs of dire consequences if they don't move over to his camp. But we had decided to deal with everything peacefully because we will have to rule the state for another four years. He (Panneerselvam) doesn't have to do it,“ she said at Koovathur.
 
 Before meeting the MLAs, Sasikala toured the Koovathur village and met a few residents. “I walked into one of the houses and saw a portrait of Amma (late chief minister J Jayalalithaa) in the house. They had garlanded the portrait. It shows how Amma continues to live in the hearts of the people,“ she said.
 
 She announced that a memorial would be built at the burial site of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa and a memorial arch will be built at Ramavaram Gardens to commemorate the hundredth birth anniversary of MGR.
 
