NEW DELHI: Tough action against religious leaders known for anti-India “hate sermons” along with promoting “nationalist” content in moderate madarsas are part of hard and soft options the Centre is weighing in the context of Jammu & Kashmir. 

 As the Centre considers measures to reduce alienation, apparent during the protests following the death of Hizbul terrorist Burhan Wani, the view in official circles is that a tough line is needed towards political and religious hardliners who repeatedly play a disruptive role and are unlikely to be impressed by any peace outreach. 
 
 The hardening of stance against separatists is seen as a political signal that the government is firm about dealing with elements it sees as trouble-makers and obstructionists and feels are usually aligned with Pakistan’s interests. This political line is in sync with Army chief Gen Bipin Rawat’s statement that locals who attempt to disrupt anti-terrorist operations by stone pelting will be treated as abettors of terrorism and is a signal to the valley and Pakistan. 
 
 On the other hand, exposing madrasa students to “nationalist” content and message of unity as well as opportunity could be part of the way ahead and the suggestions are part of a set of actionable points likely to be put up before the political leadership. Demonstrative legal action against leaders who spew anti-India rhetoric and radicalise the youth is high on the list as the government is keen to check radical maulvis from Pakistan-occupied Kashmir or from within India. 
 
 A source said around 8,000-10,000 moulvis in J&K, who earn paltry sums of around Rs 5,000 a month, can be approached and engaged in a conversation on nationalist issues and NGOs could play a role too. It is understood that some NGOs were willing to offer their services towards this end. In madrasas, too, students may be exposed to animated videos on highly cohesive rather than divisive issues and introduce a focus on issues like community life and social harmony. 
 
 As part of an attempt at social inclusion, it has been suggested that NGOs promote Sufi culture that was a strong element of the state’s cultural ethos before the rise of religious extremism and jihadi terrorism. Rallies in areas like Rajouri and Doda may be held to promote a sense of being Indian and highlight the traditions of Gujjars, Bakarwals and Pahadis. 
 
 Other important suggestions include a review of detentions made under J&K’s Public Safety Act (PSA) to ensure that committed instigators are acted against. As for first-time offenders, it is suggested that PSA cases against them be withdrawn, followed by counselling. Similarly, the idea is to keep minor offenders in a juvenile facility rather than in jails where they face the risk of radicalisation from other inmates. 
 
 Suggesting a crackdown on hardline separatists, experts have backed legal action by keeping a track of cases pending against them to ensure proper prosecution. The measures on the table also include engaging more moderate separatist through talks. Also, in what could really hurt the separatists, the experts have suggested that state security extended to them by the Centre or the J&K government be withdrawn.
 
