We’ve gone beyond the usual murse, people. That’s right, the man purse that became famous with The Hangover, has other competition, now. Portuguese soccer star Cristiano Ronaldo has often been spotted with a clutch under one arm, actor Jude Law has also been seen with a yellow leopard-print minaudière, no less!   actor Robert Downey Jr is said to be a repeat   offender as he’s got a collection of these, pop singer   carries around a number of luxury bags and hip-hop stars Snoop Dogg and Jay Z have shown off their man bags on the front row at fashion weeks abroad. If you’re heading out around town, how about sporting a crossbody satchel a la Indiana Jones? Whatever you choose, it certainly seems like man bags are redefining the metrosexual trend...

 
 Call it what you like — either a carry all or cross-body bags, messengers, pouches or portfolio bags, the   or murse is getting to be a popular sartorial choice. If manbuns and guyliners can exist, why not a mote? Here’s a lowdown on the top five styles. Choose one that suits you.. 
 
 
  
  
 Forget that stiff briefcase to the office. The man tote is increasingly appealing to male sensibilities. From sturdy canvas to smooth leather and suede, the mote can go with a bathing or a business suit. Heading out to a meeting? We suggest you carry one in navy, dark grey or classic black. 
 
 
  
  
 An alternative to the larger backpack, the square messenger is getting to be another staple in men’s fashion. Toting old-school charm, it has moved from just being a handy bag for students to stylish, luxe alternative for corporates.
 
 
  
  
 Very similar to a woman’s clutch, the man clutch is changing the game for cocktail dressing for men. From envelope sizes to wristlets, these of rectangular male clutches are as neat as they can get. Popularised by football icon Cristiano Ronaldo, the man clutch can be used for formal occasions, too.
 
 
 
  
  
 With the trend of athleisure, locker room fashion has jumped out onto the street. A long, duffel bag or gym bag is now used to carry stuff to work and while commuting. Once used to carry leggings and tracks, this bag is no longer about sweaty clothes, but work essentials, too. We like!
 
 
  
  
 You had the fanny pack, seen on   and Kendal Jenner, and this alternative is for the guys. The bumbag, called the sister of the rucksack, can be worn over the shoulder or across the chest. It has become a hot trend at music festivals abroad.
 
 
 
 
 
 
