PANAJI: Until a decade ago, the practice of garba and dandiya dance was not as much of a celebrations as it has become in recent years. However, Navratri celebrations in Goa, accompanied with these Gujarati dances, have transcended the boundaries of ethnic communities and regionalism. So much so, that even rural areas are holding the nine-day dance festival on par with cities.

 In Vasco and its hinterlands, 12 places host this festival for a population of two lakh people; even though there are only 250 Gujarati families in the region. Some of these are accoutred with commercial Gujarati film songs, Bollywood music, etc.
 
 Members of the Gujarati community in Goa, however, ensure that the sanctity of the authentic Navratri tradition is maintained. “We still have the sthapna (installation) of the devi, Goddess Amba’s idol in   for nine days. The main pooja is held on the first day of Navratri wherein the idol is placed in the centre of the hall. Everyone performs the garba and dandiya around it with folk music,” said  .
 
 Keeping with the traditional attire, women are also seen wearing the chania choli, while men come dressed in kedia with koti (jacket) and dhoti. Some purchase these clothes when they visit Rajasthan or Gujarat, while others rent the dresses from costume designers in Goa for the festival. A few are also available clothing stores in Goa during the festival period.
 
 “The traditional dress is simple and suitable for Indian climate owing to the breathable material. The outfits are designed in such a way that the wide pleats contribute to one’s comfort while dancing,” said  , President, Shri Gujarati Samaj Margao.
 
 Kanubhai Lakhani, president of Vasco Garbi Gujarati Samaj who has been organizing the event for over 20 years in Goa, said that the secret behind the success of this nine-day festival is that it offers a perfect package for family amusement.
 
 “People from all sections of society attend this festival because these dances are appealing to them. Moreover, the environment is safe for women and children. We charge no fee for entry and our team ensures that no one in an inebriated state gains access to the event,” he told  . 
 
 “The passion for these dances has spread so much in Goa that many people of other communities now dance better than Gujaratis,” Lakhani said.
 
