KOCHI: The government has approved the formation of a special purpose vehicle (SPV) for the 'slow tourism water project' that will cover the 450km-long coastline of Kerala. The project undertaken by Cochin international airport (Cial) - which will be monitored by chief minister   - is expected to be completed by 2020.

 The government had passed an order on this project two weeks ago and Cial began a survey to finalize the route and budget of the project. Cial will have 49% stake in the project that can change the face of water transport and marine tourism in Kerala. The state government too will have an equal share and the remaining 2% will be private stakeholders.
 
 The waterway linking 11 districts from Kasaragod to Kovalam will have stops at tourist-centric destinations. The SPV will contemplate possibilities like building tourist facilitation centres and hotels at hop-off points. Once the project fructifies, tourist can rely on boats at important tourist destination in Kerala for transport. The waterway will help traders, as they will have a less expensive alternative to road transportation.
 
 To make the project a reality land acquisition, construction of new canals, reworking of existing canals are necessary. Thiruvananthapuram-Shoranur canal, Parvathy Puthanar and Varkala tunnels will be reworked.
 
 For the project, a new 26km waterway must be established in north Kerala. At present, only 205-km long Kottapuram-Kollam national waterway stretch is ready. The waterways for the project is expected to 20m deep and 70m wide.
 
 Chairman of CGH Earth group Jose Dominic felt that a project of this magnitude would be a gift to Kerala tourism. "It will breathe new life into important historical sites like Varkala tunnels, which was essential for transportation in olden days. Furthermore this greatly help as freight movement via water will reduce traffic in city. Water transportation will also have a lesser carbon footprint," he said.
 
 Former MD of Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation (KSINC) SKK Nair said that similar projects always figured during talks over the past 20 years. "Most governments announced such projects and nothing materialized till date. There will be a lot of challenges such as inland fishing and land acquisition before the team," he added.
 
 Nair felt that Cial was a company that had proven its credentials by taking up challenges and executing them in a timely manner. "Financially returns from the project will take time. But this is a project that the government must undertake as it will greatly impact the state. For instance, one 1,000 tonne freight consignment via water can take almost 100 trucks off the road," he said.
 
