Today, when our lives are ruled by TV, instructed each day who to root for, when each day we are told that sporting activity transcends the idea of sport, here is an experience that outlives that very diktat simply by being what it is. This is the contest for ages, a clash of aesthetics of all time where you do not know whose corner to show up at.

 Just when we had almost given up on the idea, we sit on a cusp of a   final once again, senses heightened at the almost organic entity a wildly delicious feeling that whips up nostalgia of a past decade. It's like an old pair of worn denims that begins to fit once again, unannounced, out of the blue.
 
 The pragmatic will argue that a Federer-Nadal clash is not exactly the order of old. Yet, in today's world a bygone decade is a long time ago, and so, we will reclaim this one as ours. It must be happening, when wizened 40-ing men whip up imaginary birthdays for Sunday with Do Not Disturb signs on their social media feeds.
 
 This is what the   final is doing to a whole lot of us, still ill at ease with the current social order of tweets and live streaming, making the best of us jog back into the not-so-distant past.
 
 The timelessness of this unique rivalry is making the world full of yearning again. Fewer meetings in sport ­ outside of the hyperbole that is de rigueur in the industry today ­ retain such a contextual fullness to it. Pushing beyond age, injury, accompanying pain and fatigue, the laying bare of ambition and skill is what makes the Federer-Nadal marriage such an enduring, almost heart-breaking affair.
 
 In the manner of most supreme rivalries, the end may make you sad, but seldom leaves you bitter. Maybe, that is the everlasting takeaway.
 
 A modern-day Ali-Frazier if you may, other parallels do not measure up. The heavy supporting cast in the Becker-Edberg, Sampras-Aggasi plots distracted us. Like that great boxing rivalry that went beyond the ring in the three great fights in the 1970s, Federer-Nadal serves as the epitome to match others with. Not many match up.
 
 In a tennis analogy, maybe the Borg-McEnroe rivalry and the mental and emotional torment one party brought while the other remained irritatingly ice-cool (even if it ultimately consumed him), is the closest comparison. Borg needed the madness of McEnroe and vice-versa, for either's aura to be complete, but even there their conflict never matched up to the sheer quality of the current duo's game.
 
 Yet, a Federer, for all his gliding, ethereal quality on court, would have remained an absolute paradigm, any relative comparison unworthy of him, had Nadal not barged the aesthetic equilibrium and humanized this strange sequences of strife for all time. Today, both are fused as one.
 
 For the longest time, Nadal had to shrug off the label of a disruptor. Here was a scurrying, never-tiring destroyer of those invisible angles that Federer effortlessly illuminated. But like he showed against  , there is still another facet of beauty to Nadal's game. Had it not been for Federer, the world would have always willed Nadal to win. This time, we are not so sure. Despite the lengthening shadows of age and time, as they bask in each other's light, a world stops its hurtle and sits back to soak it all in. You should too. You never know if you'll ever see it again.
 
