PANAJI: The Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum, South Goa, has passed orders in two separate cases directing a builder to execute deeds of sale for apartments he sold in 2010 and 2011 in   and pay compensation for not building a swimming pool as agreed.

 The forum has also directed Amit Prabhu, proprietor Prabhu Real Estate to pay a sum of Rs 2 lakh with ten percent interest from the date of filing their complaints till its realization, to each of the parties, towards denial of the amenities of a swimming pool. 
 
 Both complaints were filed in 2013 and were disposed of last month. The builder has also been directed to pay Rs 50,000 to each of the complainants towards mental agony for not providing all the amenities, provide a children’s park in Sunset Lagoon and make arrangements to drain out the rain water which gets accumulated near the complex. 
 
 Ravi Mishra booked a double bedroom flat for Rs 25 lakh and   a triple bedroom flat for Rs 29 lakh which was inclusive of fittings, fixtures in the flat and common amenities like swimming pool, children’s park and proportionate area in the property beneath. 
 
 Mishra paid the Rs 25 lakh and in different stages and stated that in order to obtain the possession of the flat paid the additional amount of Rs 1.10 lakh towards maintenance charges and also forced to deposit a sum of Rs 50,000 and Rs 12,000. 
 
 According to Mishra’s complaint non providing of amenities and facilities to him and not submitting accounts, amounted to deficiency in service and unfair trade practice. 
 
 Prabhu stated that the brochure supplied to the complainant is not binding on him as it doesn’t form part of the contract. He stated that he had informed the complainant that it was not possible to construct the swimming pool as the customers were not interested in making additional payments for the swimming pool. 
 
 The forum in its order stated that since the opposite party received the full and final payment of Rs 25 lakh towards the sale of the flat, "There are no reasons for the opposite party to deny the execution of the sale deed in favour of the complainant". 
 
 Where the matter of the swimming pool is concerned, the forum stated there “there is nothing on record to prove as to what prevented him not to construct the swimming pool inspite of taking a sum of Rs 25,00,000/- in the year 2010 for a flat from the complainant. 
 
