Gurgaon: ‘Khwaab Sa’ is an Indian – and thoroughly modern – adaptation of ‘A Midsummer Night’s Dream’. But it might just induce palpitations in lovers of traditional Shakespeare.

 This is less play and more avant-garde performance art. And on an unusually chilly March evening, ‘Khwaab Sa’ hypnotised those who had gathered at the   for Day One of  . Atul Kumar’s opus sparkled with electricity and seethed with an erotic charge. It boasted a sinewy, soaked-in-electronica score that positively muscled the action along. Oh, and it was funny too; uproariously so.
 
 This was Shakespeare shaken and stirred, and shot through with a grungy psychedelia. It came across as an absurdist rereading of one of the bard’s finest comedies. If there was anything like LSD available in Stratford-upon-Avon back then, this is probably how ‘A Midsummer Night’s Dream’ might have turned out, a series of hallucinatory episodes that are closer to reality than you might think.
 
 ‘Khwaab Sa’ is introduced as a brew of nautanki, Hindustani classical and contemporary dance, in which lovers use the language of their bodies to convey tormented emotions, actors converse in gobbledygook (which has a not-so-remote resemblance to Hindi), and the fairies communicate through raag. But it’s actually much more than that. After two-and-a-half hours of unrelenting frenzy, the effect mirrors that of the gut being punched (and the loins more than stirred).
 
 In Kumar’s words, the script has been turned on its head. Chronology exists only to be tampered with (anyway, when is life ever in sequence?). Scenes have been added that bear no relation to the Shakespearean original. Nothing is as it seems here. Kumar has taken the plot of ‘A Midsummer Night’s Dream’ and made it plotless. He tiptoes around the storyline, stomps across the topography of the narrative, and injects it with a barely-disguised lust.
 
 There’s no structure here (just as there is no structure to dreams). The choreography switches from funky and screwball to prowling-with-menace and loose-limbed balletic. Meanwhile, the raag-drenched cameos of Oberon and Titania, king and queen of the fairies, embrace desire at its most animalistic. Kumar refuses to play safe, and there’s an invigorating physicality to the whole show.
 
 The breezy vibe and arboreal setting of the original is dispensed with, its place taken by a world in penumbra, a world full of impenetrable realities and lurking dangers. But levity is provided by the actors, whose nonsensical names – Bajarbattu, Hiplata, Hamiya, Thosur, Tapak and Thesauri – and innuendo-laden prattle guarantee belly laughs aplenty. 
 
 The soundtrack, performed live (backstage), adds another dimension to ‘Khwaab Sa’, taking it into another space. Blustery drums weave in and out of the action, stabs of guitar burst through eerie calms, while loops and samples meander in and out of the thunder-and-lightning mix. The raags come as something of a relief from the tempest.
 
 Inhale, exhale. ‘Khwaab Sa’ is not an easy watch, for it challenges every orthodoxy of theatre. It’s akin to a clamber up a particularly perilous mountain. But the view from the top makes it worth all that while spent being immersed. Take a bow, folks.
 
 
