Visakhapatnam: New Year is the time for new beginnings and new resolutions one of the commonest being promising oneself to quit smoking or drinking or cutting down on calories. But within a few days, all such resolves go for a toss. Medical experts therefore give suggestions on how to quit the bad, unhealthy habits as well as sustain the resolution.

 According to health experts, the resolution of total abstinence from smoking or drinking or both becomes tough as the locus of control depends on both internal and external factors. Besides one’s self control and will power to quit, one has to deal with physical issues of withdrawal symptoms as well as surroundings or one’s immediate environment, which often acts as a triggering factor. Moreover, due to their biological constitution, women get more easily addicted to alcohol and smoking than men and therefore thinking of long term instead of instant or short term gains, they should rather stay away from addictive substances. Smoking and drinking are neither a statement of women empowerment nor freedom, quip doctors.
 
 Medical superintendent of Government Hospital for Mental Care (GHMC) Dr S Radharani said, “Since the body gets accustomed to nicotine (in case of smokers) and chemical ethanol (in case of alcohol takers), depending on the severity of intake, within a few days, withdrawal symptoms start manifesting in the form of lack of concentration, irritation, restlessness, agitation and in some extreme cases seizures. Thus within a few days, the person goes back to his former bad habits despite resolution.”
 
 On top of this physical dependence, there’s also the problem of peer group pressure, social dos, personal and professional stress, which trigger relapsing into the bad habits.
 
 “Since withdrawal symptoms are common when one tries to quit alcohol or smoking, one can consult a specialist be it a counsellor or psychiatrist and if required the person can be put under medication. If there’s a family history of alcoholism and one has been addicted for a long time, they should also seek medical help. Simultaneously, it’s imperative to divert the mind by taking up new hobbies, spiritual and social activities, reducing the stress through yoga and meditation and finding time for leisure, doing social service and so on,” said Dr Radharani.
 
 City-based neuro-psychiatrist Dr C Radhakanth also emphasised the need to learn alternative behaviour and manipulate the disturbing environment and social and material reinforcing factors in such a way that one doesn’t feel the urge to drink or smoke. “A systemic and disciplined approach is needed. Firstly, to avoid peer pressure, choose or mingle with friends who are teetotallers or don’t have any bad and harmful addictive habits. Secondly, avoid hitting the bar-cum-restaurants or pubs that one was used to but instead go to a restaurant where there’s no provision for smoking or drinking. If one is in the habit of hitting the bar at 8 pm, instead watch a movie with the family or go out for dinner with friends and family to restaurants. Spend that extra money daily on charity works or in some other hobbies instead of buying liquor with it. Further, the resolution should come out of the deepest conviction and commitment. One needs to internalise in one’s brain that drinking and smoking are not the coolest thing but there are many alternate ways to be socially acceptable and ‘happening,” he added.
 
 Health experts also offer advices to family members and close friends about their interaction with the addicted person who is trying to quit the habit. It’s not advisable to argue with them or warn them about cancer and other health hazards of substance abuse. “Such addicted people have illogical logic and convince themselves psychologically that no health hazard would befall them with a don’t care attitude and therefore would still continue their addiction. They should rather be motivated and shown the pleasures of non-drinkers so that they gradually change the fundamental beliefs and thought process of the individual. They should be made to realise that smoking and drinking neither makes one fashionable and smart, nor improves prestige and personality in anyway. So, when the person indulges in smoking and drinking, instead of arguing, withdraw from him/her, switch off totally but reward them with social reinforcement or social acceptance when they are not indulging in bad habits. This way, they will slowly get the message and become more disciplined,” averred Dr Radhakanth and added that spiritual motivation by visiting healing retreats/ashrams or spiritual gurus and therapeutic connection with mental health experts also help in de-addiction.
 
 
