Like a typical Gurgaonwalllah, TV actor   is into fitness, and not only does he hit the gym but also cycles around the   whenever he is in town. "Cycling is my new-found love as it is another form of cardio. Whenever I come to Gurgaon, I enjoy not only the weather but also  , because this is actually the place to be in winters. I used to cycle as a kid and had also installed dynamos on my cycle, but when I shifted to Mumbai, I couldn’t take my cycle there. Wahan possible bhi nahi hai cycle chalana,'" he says.
 
 But as he shifted to Gurgaon, Maniesh resumed his love for cycling. "Though I like to ride alone, there are times when my elder brother (Vivek) and my group of friends, who also have cycles, accompany me. Though I go out with my hoodie on while I am cycling, even then there are times when people recognize me. Ab aise mein bhi koi pehchaan le, toh selfie toh banti hai unke saath," he adds.
 
  
  Maniesh Paul poses for Gurgaon Times (BCCL)
 
 
  
  
 
 
 He also shares that cycling is very Gurgaon specific because there are many open spaces where people can move around easily, unlike Delhi. "Delhi has also become very cluttered, and the traffic is such that you can’t even cycle there. But in Gurgaon, you have so many open spaces like   and Sohna Road where you can easily enjoy your ride. I think cycling is very Gurgaon specific because there are many corporate offices here and people stay close to their offices. Office itna paas hai toh gaadi kyun nikalna? I have also convinced many of my friends to not use their cars for shorter distances. If the office is nearby, they can cycle and obviously help in curbing pollution as well. Not everyone can plant a tree, but at least they can do this," he says.
 
 When Maniesh posed for a shoot for GT, he also picked up his bicycle. He told us that he often does this after cycling. "When you cycle, you burn a lot of calories, so whenever I feel like doing more, main squats kar leta hoon. Tab bhi lagta hai ki kuch heavy karna hai, toh aise cycle utha leta hoon," he adds. 
 
