KOLKATA: All the nine members of the   that had held the first meeting at   to chalk out the   in   gave a miss to the   from College Square on Monday where cops in mufti had been waiting for their prized catch. The news had reached Alik Chakrabarty and three others from Delhi — Shilpi, Bulandi and Swapan — beforehand. The organisers thus chose to keep others at the front — Manoj Bhattacharya of RSP, CPI-ML state secretary Partho Ghosh, PDS leader Samir Putatunda, rights activist Sujato Bhadra backed by villagers from Bhangar’s Tonga, Polerhat, Khamarait, to tell the city that the agitation was far from over.

 Some Maoist activists were also among the crowd while a huge police force escorted the rally. The posters read: “Protibader tinti naam — Bhangar, Singur Nandigram” to convey the message that the stir against the “forcible land purchase” by the Power Grid is but a continuation of the anti-land acquisition movements in Singur and Nandigram. So, organisers took care to keep the CPM at bay. And though Left activists, including many from CPM, participated in the rally, their leaders stayed away.
 
 Like in Singur and Nandigram, state intelligence agencies had no clue to what was going on in the city’s backyard since September. While some saw a hand of the local Trinamool leaders in bringing in “outsiders”, a section wondered why Trinamool minister Purnendu Bose and MP Dola Sen couldn’t foresee the development despite having a Naxalite background.
 
 A recent report from the state intelligence branch (SIB) indicates sabotage by some Trinamool men who looked the other way when the nine-member team was taken to the areas where villagers were growing jittery against the land purchase. In a bid to give fillip to the agitation, the team gave an environment twist to the campaign, telling villagers with video presentations about how this 400/220 KV high-tension power line would damage their crops, fish ponds and cattle. And all this happened in an area where villagers had gone with Trinamool in the last assembly elections. Even some Trinamool activists at the grassroots, including panchayat members, had actively participated in the agitation and suffered police torture the day before they blocked roads making the police beat a retreat on January 18.
 
 So much so that local minister Abdur Rezzak Molla and Trinamool heavyweight Mukul Roy couldn’t reach out to the families of those who died in the firing. Prodded by Roy, Furfura Sharif pir Toha Siddique sneaked into the village at the dead of the night and made the government announce compensation for the victims. The compensation diplomacy worked little to melt the ice. A few days later, Trinamool leader and Bidhannagar-Rajarhat Corporation mayor Sabyasachi Datta entered with a huge police force and removed the blockades. The next day police picked up Sharmistha Chowdhury of CPI-ML (Red Star) from Panapukur. The villagers took two steps back and removed all the blockades on the Bhangar-Haroa Road. They ganged up again on January 28 and chased away the cops.
 
 The SIB report states that as many as 30 organisations, including ultra-Left outfits, have gathered under the banner of the Jomi, Jibika, Poribesh O Bastutantra Raksha Committee. The organisers held a meeting at Sarat Sadan in Howrah on January 7, attended by more than 1000 people. The decision to start indefinite road blockade was taken at this meeting. The report said at least 150 ‘outsiders’ had been troubled zone for the last couple of months before the movement was unleashed. Though most of them were from Jadavpur University, but some were from Delhi and Kerala, the report mentioned.
 
 
