AHMEDABAD: It's early morning in the ancient town of   as the city slowly wakes up beginning routine activities. A group of 100-odd artists, however, are already setting their easels to capture landmarks such as Hatkeshwar Temple, Kirti Toran and   in watercolour.The eclectic group consists of famous and budding artists, professional and amateurs, men and women ­ but what binds them all is the will to broaden their boundaries and paint landscapes.

 Earlier this month, the 11th annual national-level artist workshop organized by Suratbased Gujarat Kala Pratisthan (GKP), was held in Vadnagar.Over past 11 years,   has tried to lend a different dimension to the state's art-scape with free workshops at places such as Saputara, Tulsishyam, Idar, Bhuj, Nargol and Palitana, among others. Some 1,000 artists created over 11,000 landscapes in that time ­ a record of sorts.
 
 Ramnik Zapadia, an art teacher and founder general secretary of GKP , said that the primary aim of the organization was to bring artists from far-flung regions into the mainstream and enrich art with their unique visual language and interpretation.
 
 “While Gujarat has a long tradition of fine arts , it's still difficult to survive only as an artist, especially in towns and villages,“ Zapadia said. “Today , Bengal and Maharashtra are considered powerhouses of fine arts due to their long tradition and strong institutions. It is our attempt to fill the void,“ said Zapadia, adding, “At the moment, GKP has 811 artists, all from Gujarat.“
 
 What sets GKP's camps apart? The participants say it's the military precision ­ all participants have to be up at 5 am and start off at 7 am with their packed lunch for the daylong exercise.
 
 C T Prajapati, member of GKP, said “The initiative has created an entire generation of artists conversant with watercolour.“
 
 Mayur Mistry , an Ahmedabadbased artist, said that he started attending the camps in 2014. “I had started working on digital medium, but seeing over 100 artists from different states ignited my passion of painting. It helped me win Gujarat State Lalit Kala Award and exhibit my works in Spain as part of a watercolour competition,“ he said.
 
 Many are just driven by passion. Dr Ulhas Navlekar is a Bhuj-based urologist.He had taken a four-day break from his practice to participate in the camp at Vadnagar. “The camp at Bhuj was also a turning point for me. Seeing the artists at work inspired me to take up the paintbrush again at the age of 72,“ he said.
 
 Just conducting the camps doesn't solve fund issues. Zapadia said he had to use all his influence and goodwill to convince diamantaires, textile barons and builders in Surat to set aside funds. GKP so far has managed to raise Rs 70 lakh through donations and art proceeds.
 
 “We recently distributed Gujarati art encyclopaedia free of cost. We also have Kala Nidhi Fund that helps artists in dire need of money ,“ he said. “At the end of the day , it's about society's approach to art,“ said Zapadia.
 
