AHMEDABAD: In a swift late-night operation on Friday, the animal husbandry department culled more than 159 birds, including a duck and three pigeons, at the makeshift bird rescue centre at   situated near  . Three infected birds, including a duck, a rock pigeon (common pigeon) and guineafowl, were also among those culled.

 Animal husbandry department officials said that the decision to cull the birds was taken after officials received a mail from the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases ( ) in Bhopal. The mail stated that the samples of   sent to them were bird flu positive and infected by the  .
 
 It was on January 3 that one Banarasilal Sonkar, a resident of Allahabad, had left these birds in a shallow wasteland on SP Ring Road, Vastral. Of the 1,400 birds, around 155 were brought to the makeshift rescue centre in Memnagar locality.
 
  However, despite the protocol mandating that the area should be sealed, neither the AMC nor the animal husbandry department carry out an awareness exercise. Ramesh Prajapati, a paan seller, has his stall touching the boundary of the culling site.
 
 “My stall is near the affected site,” Prajapati said. “On Friday, I came here and set up my makeshift shop with other vendors. There was no one to tell us anything. We set up the shops as usual, just touching the grill of the affected site.” He further said that he came to know about the culling from the media.
 
 Kishan Sharma, a senior citizen, said they were not even aware that birds had been culled in the area. “I usually come here with a couple of friends. There is no one in the area to even tell us about the culling apart from those distributing masks,” Sharma said.
 
 However, most residents of the area refused to talk about the incident. A woman resident of nearby apartments said they could see a huge fire and that some operation was going on. “But when we asked the cops, they told us that some birds were being killed by the corporation. We were, however, not told about bird flu,” said the woman. She also said that life was normal in the area since morning till they saw a flash of fire.
 
 A senior officer of the Sarva Dharma Raksha Trust said that the trust was given space opposite the AMC garden for a token amount to carry out rescue operations during Uttarayan festival.
 
 “Our trust does not have its own hospital or building but has been involved in rescue operations during Uttarayan. On December 3, the animal husbandry department asked the trust to take these birds since we have good cages,” said the officer.
 
 The animal husbandry department has completed the survey within 1 km area of the affected site and has not found any NGO, or even the backyard poultry. Later on Friday, the department sealed the site and declared it dangerous to go inside.
 
