IDUKKI: To ensure protection of vegetation at  ,   and  , these areas should be handed over to forest department and afforestation scheme should be implemented there, said a report by former Devikulam sub collector  . The report was prepared as per a direction from district collector G R Gokul. 

  Two weeks ago the sub collector had submitted a proposal to the district collector, pointing out, "Over 1,124 acres of revenue land, including in Bison Valley and   villages, should be taken over for afforestation. The area included 864 acres of 'porampoke' land at Chokramudi, 250 acres at Gap Road, reclaimed by the V S Achuthanandan government, and 70 acres of land at Chinnakkanal. The Chorkramudi area is considered to be the habitat of Nilgiri Tahrs and 'neelakkurinji' (Strobilanthes kunthiana). Once the areas are handed over to the forest department, the government can assure their protection and its vegetation," said the proposal.
 
  "Many groups are already conducting illegal trekking and camping at Chokramudi, affecting the vegetation and habitat of Nilgiri Tahrs in the area. Once the area is changed to afforestation scheme, it will help assure the protection of the area," the proposal recommends.
 
  Gokul said: "We are planning to include some non-human habitat areas to the afforestation proposal. Former Devikulam sub collector Sriram Venkitaraman has submitted the first proposal and we have directed   to submit a proposal on afforestation project."
 
  However, some cases need to be settled before the land is handed over to the forest department. Power minister M M Mani's brother Lambodaran's son Lijeesh has already submitted a complaint to the Munnar tribunal, claiming the ownership of six acres of land at Chokarmudi.
 
  Earlier, the revenue department had encroached over 70 acres of land at Chinnakkanal from  . But claiming ownership of 36 acres of land in the area, he has approached the high court which has authorized the state government to take a final decision on the issue.
 
  "Encroachment normally hits worse the revenue land and it is comparatively safe once handed over to the forest department. When the land status is changed to the forest department, any encroachment will be a criminal offence. Once the proposal is a reality, it would help prevent land encroachment and illegal construction in the area," said a revenue official.
 
  "As per our assumption, there are a lot of non-human habitat areas in and around Munnar. Once they are changed to afforestation areas, it will help increase the habitat of wild elephants which in turn will reduce the tusker menace in human habitat areas. We also plan to take some forest land from the town areas. We will submit the proposal to the government soon for further action," said Gokul.
 
 
