Mumbai: The General Anti-Avoidance Rule (GAAR) provisions will apply from the financial year 2017-18 without any further deferral, despite lobbying efforts by many stakeholders. Past budgets had deferred implementation of  .

 GAAR will also override the provisions of tax treaties entered into by India with other countries. In fact, the recently signed protocol with Singapore explicitly mentioned a treaty override.
 
 If at all,   could propose an increase in the threshold limit.   (I-T) rules currently provide that GAAR will apply to tax avoidance arrangements or transactions where the tax benefit arising to all parties concerned exceeds Rs 3 crore in the aggregate. In June last year, I-T rules were also amended, under which income from transfer of investments made prior to April 1, 2017 will not be covered by GAAR provisions. It should be noted that only income from transfer of investments is covered and not any other tax planning arrangement.
 
 A section of foreign investors are apprehensive as regards treaty override (which means that the beneficial provisions of the tax treaty do not apply in cases of treaty abuse covered by GAAR). Punit Shah, partner, Dhruva Advisors, says, “The CBDT should clarify that wherever specific anti-avoidance regulations (SAAR) are specified either in the I-T Act, such as transfer pricing provisions, or in tax treaties, such as limitation of benefit clause, GAAR should not apply. Compliance with SAAR should be sufficient to qualify as a genuine business arrangement.” For e.g., the revised treaties India signed with Mauritius and Singapore have stringent limitation of benefit clauses. However, it appears that as of now, the MoF is sticking to its stand relating to treaty override.
 
 While India Inc was seeking a further deferral of GAAR provisions, especially since final guidelines have still not been issued, government officials say the guidelines will follow soon after the Finance Act, 2017 is enacted.
 
 Some recommendations of the Shome committee are likely to be adopted in the final set of guidelines, say government sources. The committee had highlighted various scenarios where GAAR should not apply — such as existence of tax holiday benefits or merger between a profit- and loss-making company with high court approval. It also said that the onus of proof that the transaction is abusive should rest with the tax authorities and not the taxpayer. Sudhir Kapadia, tax leader at EY India, says that “GAAR should be invoked by tax officials only in rare cases to deal with highly aggressive, egregious and artificial pre-ordained schemes. It should not come in the way of the right of the taxpayer to choose and make commercial decisions — such as financing by debt versus equity, or form business, say company versus a limited liability partnership”.
 
 
