New Delhi: Delhi Police has recovered 735   cellphones that are high-end and worth over Rs 1.3 crore, and arrested eight people, including an engineer. 

 These men, belonging to two different gangs, used to unlock the phones, change   numbers and sell them off in the grey market. The individuals were identified as Shakil Ahmed, Aslam, Gaurav Mittal, Rajender Aggarwal, Khalid, Irfan, Gaurav Kumar and Rinku. While the rest of them are buyers, Kumar is the engineer and Rinku the thief who stole the phones. Police said they were looking for several other members of the two gangs. 
 
 The phones were sold in Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and even Nepal. 
 
 “On February 21, SHO Atul Kumar’s team had received information that three men from Mewat in Rajasthan would come to Delhi in a stolen WagonR to buy the mobiles. A trap was laid, and Shakil, Aslam and Rinku were arrested. 18 stolen phones were found on them,” said DCP (southeast) Romil Baaniya.
 
 Aslam and Shakeel used to receive stolen phones from one Qayyum, who runs a cellphone shop in Jurhera, Rajasthan. Qayyum was getting the supply of these stolen mobile phones from one Kallu and Mittal who have phone shops in Delhi.
 
 Mittal and his partner Aggarwal were arrested and 520 branded phones seized from them.
 
 “Mittal disclosed that he used to change IMEI numbers at Gaffar Market, Karol Bagh, with the help of Kumar, a shopkeeper-cum-engineer,” additional DCP Rajiv Ranjan said.
 
 Mittal would then sell these phones to various dealers in Mewat, Punjab, Delhi and Himachal Pradesh.
 
 Kumar also used to erase IMEI of   phones through shopkeepers in Mewat and Punjab, and charged Rs 200-300 per phone for IMEI change and Rs 50 for flashing and unlocking a phone. 
 
 Khalid and Irfan, who ran a shop at Nuh (Mewat), Haryana, were also arrested from Kumar’s shop when they came for changing IMEI numbers of stolen phones. The software used by the gang and 70 phones were seized from them.
 
 Mittal also received stolen phones from various gangs of pickpockets in Delhi. The bosses of two such gangs, Amiruddin and Kallu, are yet to be arrested. 
 
