

 I'm a  . After 26 years of service to the country and 10 years with Hindustan Aeronautics Limited in Bengaluru, I picked Pune to settle down with my family and that was in the year 2000. 
 
 Pune was a great choice, with its leafy neighbourhoods, vibrant culture and quiet, breezy mornings. But after 17 years in the city, I still feel a little lost - and that's because not all roads here, have names. 
 
 Apart from the military area, where most of the main roads are maintained by the Army, most other lanes lack proper signs that indicate street names. Citizen are forced to resort to guesswork and today, it's not always possible to stop in the middle of traffic to ask for directions from pedestrians - unless you want to be deafened by angry honks. 
 
 In the military area, even the residences of senior offices have house numbers assigned and names of the road written clearly across gates or pillars. There's this sense of discipline... an order that makes commute easy. Instead of forcing commuters to rely on app-based maps, clear signs are being maintained as a sense of service towards citizens. Senior citizens, for example, can guide themselves to destinations while relying on those signs. 
 
 In stark contrast are Pune's internal roads. They are a confusing maze of unmarked turns, filled with traffic violations that are encouraged by napping law enforcement agencies who don't seem concerned about bikers taking off before the change of lights. But violations aside, these roads have little to no signage. It's near impossible to guide outstation guests home and it's chaotic when you're behind the wheel. I live in Keshavnagar and to this day, I have no idea where Mundhwa Road starts from and ends. 
 
 On important roads like Sholapur Road, overhead signs are hidden by tree branches and it takes one a few minutes to figure out the details behind the foliage. At a few localities such as Koregaon Park and the Deccan Gymkhana area, clear signboards have been set up for every road and lane. But I understand the installation of those boards was part of citizen initiatives. Residents of these localities erected those signboards using their own money and others were, subsequently, installed by PMC. But it took an entire movement by citizens to get the basics right. After all, indication of road names are basics of good urban planning. 
 
 Consider this example:   was once Main Street but you ask anyone now and Main Street is a mystery. Why can't a simple sign, erected by the PMC, clear this confusion? 
 
 At Laxmi Road, again, there's no indication of a start or finish. Years ago, shops with street names helped with directions but now, thir boards are just bright lights. For some reason, the practice of writing the street's name on your shop, was discontinued. Adding to this confusion is the changing of familiar street names to convoluted new ones - a new-age nightmare. It would be so much easier if the old, familiar names of main roads were preserved and internal simply numbered. 
 
 Laxmi Road, Bund Garden Road, Shankar Sheth Road and Mundhwa Road are important routes being used by thousands. A lack of a system that provides directions is a serious miss. I was a fighter pilot. But today, I find myself at sea. 
 
 Which is why I'm sincerely requesting the PMC and Government of Maharashtra to take up this issue up urgently and set up clear and permanent indicators that specify names of roads. This would help road users and more importantly, this infrastructure will truly help Pune become smart.
 
