NEW DELHI: Do robots steal jobs and leave people poorer? 

 China has the second largest army of industrial robots today, and its real wages have increased about 1.5 times in the past 10 years. In both Germany and Mexico, increasing   has created more jobs, a United Nations report released on Thursday says. “…it is interesting to note that some countries where robot density is large, including Germany and the Republic of (South) Korea, as well as countries where the accumulation of robots has been rapid, such as China, experienced an increase, or only a small decline, in the share of manufacturing in total employment,” says the report by   ( ). 
 
 “China and Germany also experienced an increase in the absolute number of manufacturing jobs, while the Republic of Korea recorded a small decline.” Pointing to the automobile sector in Germany, the report concedes that some of the adverse impacts of automation on employment and income could be transferred to other countries, but it also discounts the idea that use of robots will result in relocation of manufacturing to countries such as the US. “…an important part of new manufacturing activities in the US relates to offshoring by European and Asian firms in relatively advanced manufacturing sectors, rather than to a re-shoring by firms in the US of labour-intensive manufacturing from developing countries.” 
 
 This may be good news for developing countries that have a large number of labour-intensive manufacturing units. While companies are increasingly looking at automation, studies suggest robot use benefits sectors such as automobiles, electronics and transport equipment more than labourintensive low-wage sectors such as textiles and apparel, and food and beverages. As a result, five industries — auto, computers and electronics, electrical equipment and appliances, rubber, plastic and chemical products, and machinery —have the highest concentration of industrial robots. 
 
 In recent years, there has been a spurt in the use of robots in manufacturing, especially since 2015, although Unctad says, “despite the hype”, use of industrial robots remains low at around 1.6 million in 2015. This is expected to rise by about half to 2.5 million by 2019. Of the current stock of robots, around 60% are in developed countries, with Germany, Japan and the US accounting for 43%. Three Asian countries — Japan, South Korea and China — have about 46% of the global share, while China has shown the most rapid increase. Japan has the highest number of industrial robots, followed by China.
 
