PATIALA: The   on Thursday acquitted 14 persons, including 12 aspirants of  , in the 2002 cash-for-job scam involving the then chairman of the   (PPSC), Ravinder Pal Singh Sidhu.

 Those acquitted include Kamal Kumar, Jiwan Kumar, Captain Sukhwinder Singh, Deepakar Gakhar, Subash Gakhar, Randeep Singh, Harbans Lal Bansal, Upinder Sharma, Amarjit Singh Bharat Bhushan, Kuljeet Kaur, Rahul Gupta, T C Gupta and Tejinder Kaur.
 
 They had been booked by the state vigilance bureau on September 5 in 2002 under Section 8, 12,13 (1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act and Section 468, 471,120-B of the IPC.
 
 While pronouncing the verdict, judge Deepak Kumar Choudhary put on record that the prosecution failed to prove the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt and as such the accused were given the benefit of doubt and were acquitted of the charges.
 
 The court also observed that two witnesses Prem Sagar and Randhir Singh, who had made statements before the court regarding payment of money for job, had not stood by their earlier version. They argued that the statements were made under duress and threat of the vigilance bureau.
 
 The court said as the two witnesses had not revealed in their earlier statement that they were forced to make the statements under pressure from the officials, they were liable for punishment. The court said they committed offence for which they should be punished under Section 193 and 195 of the IPC and ordered that a case be filed before the chief judicial magistrate for trial of Prem Sagar and Randhir Singh for giving false statements in the court.
 
 In April 2015, Sidhu was sentenced to seven years of rigorous imprisonment and fined Rs one crore in the cash-for-jobs scam which was unearthed in 2002. A former journalist who became PPSC chairman in 1996, Sidhu had almost completed his six-year term when he was held on March 25, 2002.
 
 A team of Punjab Vigilance Bureau had caught him in Chandigarh while accepting a bribe of Rs 5 lakh from an excise inspector in lieu of PCS job. he inspector had struck a deal for Rs 35 lakh. During a raid on Sidhu’s bank lockers in April 2002, Rs 8.16 crore was recovered. The major fallout of the scam was that the Punjab government cancelled the recruitments of 639 persons who had been selected during Sidhu’s tenure.
 
 
