JAIPUR: The police on Saturday seized 20 quintals of sub-standard kalakand (milk cake) and sweets from a vehicle at Kotputli. The products were allegedly made of soyabean oil.

  officials said that the truck had been coming from Khairtal and heading towards Phulera. The police intercepted the vehicle and immediately informed the health department officials. The team of food safety officers reached the spot immediately to check its quality.
 
 Health department officials said that the seized kalakand is adulterated. It is sold at Rs130 per kg to retailers. The retailers sold it at Rs350 per kg.
 
 Officials said that it should be made of only milk and sugar. But, in this case, it is suspected that the manufacturer has used soyabean oil and skimmed milk powder. “We have collected samples of kalakand and sent it to laboratory for testing,” the official said.
 
 Transpiration of Kalakand in huge quantity in a truck put it in suspicion. The police suspected that it requires a lot of milk to produce such a huge quality of kalakand. 
 
 Earlier, food safety officers inspected mawa manufacturing units in Chitwari in Chomu area and collected seven samples.
 
 It took almost whole day for the health department officials to inspect the mawa manufacturing units in the village as almost each and every house in the village is engaged in producing mawa.
 
 A health department official said that Chitwari is a village, which has 900 houses. “We have taken seven samples of mawa from Chitwari,” a health department official said.
 
 However, officials claimed that they have not found any evidences of adulteration in the mawa during the inspection but they have taken the samples for quality testing.
 
 The food safety officers were conducting inspection when they received information from the Kotputli police about the vehicle carrying 20tons of Kalakand.
 
 Chitwari village totally depends on mawa production. Almost each house in the village is linked to mawa production.
 
 The prominent markets for Chitwari village are Jaipur, Chomu and also some places in Sikar. The daily requirement of mawa in Jaipur is approximately 60,000 kg. Chitwari supply around 15-20,000 kg.
 
