THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A consumer has landed   (KWA) in a  . When   approached KWA with an application to disconnect his water connection, the authorities acted swiftly. But knowingly or unknowingly, the KWA was obliging to the demand of a man, who was not just a consumer but also an estranged husband who wanted to   on his wife and two girl children. 

 Taking KWA’s act as a case of human rights violation, state human rights commission chairman   has directed KWA PH division south executive engineer to reinstate the domestic connection within three months.
 
 The order was issued based on the complaint of a woman from Karakkamandapam. The domestic connection of KWA was in the name of her estranged husband Sukeshan Achari. He approached KWA to get the supply disconnected at a time when the divorce case between the couple was going on at the court. Sukeshan had left the house around seven years ago.
 
 The KWA took the decision to disconnect the domestic connection considering the fact that the agreement is between KWA and the consumer. “We are helpless in this situation as the owner approached us with the request. If we hadn’t agreed, he would have approached the court. The agreement is between the owner and the KWA. We can reinstate connection if the residents can provide a consent letter of the owner,” said a KWA official. 
 
 In an explanation given to human rights commission, the KWA said that they received an application and the owner had paid Rs 65 as disconnection charge. 
 
 The commission has noticed that court has not taken a decision on the ownership of the house, where the complainant is staying. Denying water to the family is a human rights violation, commission observed.
 
 Commission noted that the owner’s act of disconnecting the KWA connection was like taking law in his hands. “If he attempts to deny water, next he will disconnect power supply,” the commission noted.
 
 The commission has asked KWA to rectify the human rights violation it had committed.
 
