NEW DELHI: In fresh trouble for Congress leader Sajjan Kumar, the   (SIT) probing the 1984 anti-Sikh riot cases has reopened a case of murder of a father and son in Punjabi Bagh in which sources said there appeared to be clear evidence against Kumar.   had filed a case at   in the matter in 1991 but closed the probe in 1993. 

 Jaswant Singh and his son were brutally killed by rioters in Punjabi Bagh in November 1984 and the incident was reportedly witnessed by Singh’s wife. Official sources said Singh’s wife had identified Kumar as the one who instigated the mob, which government sources said was a major evidence for the SIT. 
 
 In fact, the three-member SIT – headed by IPS officer Anurag, retired district judge Rakesh Kapoor and Delhi Police DCP Kumar Gyanesh -- questioned Sajjan Kumar on Tuesday. Kumar has been questioned four times since last year in connection with the anti-Sikh riots. 
 
 An official told TOI that “there is strong evidence in this case against the Congress leader and we have a witness”. The case was initially registered at Punjabi Bagh police station in 1991, which was shifted to Saraswati Vihar police station later but Delhi Police closed the case in 1993, sources said. 
 
 Officials said they had reopened this particular case as they wanted to take it to its logical end. 
 
 The SIT has filed chargesheets in four anti-Sikh riot cases which were closed either by Delhi Police or the CBI. 
 
 In a recent report filed in the Supreme Court, the government said the SIT had re-investigated 59 anti-Sikh riot cases out of which 38 were closed due to lack of evidence. It said investigation was being carried out expeditiously in the remining cases. 
 
 Around 3,000 people were killed, mostly in Delhi, in the anti-Sikh riots that broke out following the assassination of then PM Indira Gandhi on October 31, 1984.
 
 The SIT, which was formed by the home ministry in February 2015, has been given an extension till August to complete its probe in all the cases. It has so far scrutinised around 300 cases registered by Delhi Police and police forces of other states for attacks on Sikhs in 1984. 
 
 It is learnt to have recorded the statements of around 1,000 witnesses. 
 
 
