NEW DELHI: A 26-year-old Army jawan, posted in Rajouri of Jammu and Kashmir, recently died in a road accident. However, his   were harvested for transplantation with permission from family members, which helped save at least four lives. This included a young IAS aspirant battling for life at BLK super-specialty hospital suffering from end-stage heart failure.

 The jawan’s heart was transported to BLK hospital through a green corridor created by Delhi Traffic Police.
 
 Dr Ajay Kaul, chairman and head of cardio thoracic and vascular surgery (CTVS) department at BLK hospital, said the 28-year-old IAS aspirant was admitted on March 5 with complaints of difficulty in performing daily routine activities. “His heart was highly dilated with very poor pumping action. There was severe left ventricular dysfunction and without timely heart transplant the patient would have died,” Kaul said.
 
 “The donor heart was a perfect match for the recipient as their age, body built and haemo-dynamics were the same. Surgery started around 2.35am and lasted till 6.30am,” Dr Kaul said, adding that the recipient has recovered well post-surgery. The jawan’s kidney and liver were used at Army Research and Referral (R&R) hospital, where he breathed his last. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, the jawan’s father said his son had come to Saharanpur for vacations. “He met with a fatal accident while going to the local railway station to buy a return ticket,” he said.
 
 Recently, the family of a 22-year-old ITBP jawan, who died after suffering from severe head injury in a road accident in west Delhi’s Dwarka, donated all his organs, including his intestine, to Safdarjung hospital. This helped save the lives of at least five patients, including one who suffered from intestinal failure.
 
 Dr Jagdish Prasad, director general of health services, said this is a positive trend. “We can save more lives by donating organs. There cannot be a bigger service to humanity than donating the organs of a person who is   or declared brain dead,” he said.
 
 
