Gurgaon: Two snakes were spotted in the corridor of the main building of General Hospital in Civil Lines on Friday triggering chaos and panic among staff, patients and visitors. The hospital employees present in the corridor reported the matter to the hospital management and both the snakes were captured within a couple of hours.

 The snakes, which were about two feet long, were first spotted around 10 am near the kitchen wing of the hospital by some employees. Soon the forest and wildlife department was informed. The snake catchers arrived around 11 am. However by then, one of the snakes was already killed by some bystanders. The situation was finally brought under control by noon when the second snake was also caught.
 
 According to an eyewitness, the snakes came out from the bushes near the rear end of the main building where the laundry is located .
 
 A patient, Ram Singh, was furious over the incident. “One doesn’t expect to encounter snakes in the corridors of a hospital. We come here for treatment and expect the place to be safe, ” said Singh.
 
 Prabha, who had brought her five-year-old son to the government hospital, said she was worried. “There is always so much crowd in the hospital, what if there was a stampede due to panic. I am really relieved that the snakes did not appear in one of the busier sections of the building.” 
 
 A doctor told TOI that it was good fortune of those present that the snakes didn’t harm anyone. “The snakes came out in the kitchen wing. Imagine them falling into the huge vessels while the food was being cooked. It could have led to numerous deaths due to poisoning, ” the doctor said.
 
 The doctors and other employees are now demanding that a there should be thorough search in the whole hospital complex to make sure no more snakes are there.
 
 Dr Kanta Goyal, Principal medical officer of General Hospital told TOI, “ We will again call the experts to avoid a reoccurrence of such an incident. Many doctors including myself live in the premises and it is not at all safe for us as well as patients admitted in the hospital.”
 
 
