NEW DELHI: Two 22-year-old women from Mizoram died under mysterious circumstances at   on Friday morning, having allegedly fallen sick after partying in Vasant Vihar, south Delhi.

 Cops suspect the two, identified as Clara and Rakim, died of some sort of poisoning possibly triggered by a concoction of drugs. Preliminary investigations have ruled out assault.
 
 The two were brought to hospital by a common friend and one of the women's cousins. They told police that Clara was gasping for breath when brought to Safdarjung, while Rakim was unconscious. Doctors later declared them dead after examination.
 
 "Their friend also told the medical staffers at the hospital that both women had a probable history of drug abuse," said Chinmoy Biswal, additional DCP, south. Clara was currently job less while Rakim worked in Lucknow and was visiting over the weekend. Police were informed about the women's serious condition around 9.20am, when the duo was admitted in the emergency ward.
 
 It was found that Clara and Rakim knew each other for the past few years. Clara used to work at a BPO but had later quit. She was staying with her friend Jenny and the latter's cousin, Liankhanmang, also from Mizoram, at a rented flat in Munirka for the past one year. Rakim worked with a private company in Lucknow and had come to Delhi to meet Clara and Jenny.
 
 According to Jenny , Rakim arrived around 6pm on Thursday and went out with Clara to have food. When they returned, the four partied till 11pm after which Jenny , who works at a BPO in Delhi, left for work along with Lian. She said Clara and Rakim were still drinking when they left.
 
 Jenny returned home around 6am and found her room bolted from inside. She tried calling Clara and Rakim, presuming they had fallen asleep. However, when they did not respond, she and Lian managed to push open a window next to the entrance door and found the two women lying on the floor. "We could hear Clara gasping for breath. We informed the landlord and broke open the bolt and tried to revive them," said Jenny .
 
 The duo called their other friends and managed to carry the women downstairs. They hired an autorickshaw and took them to hospital.
 
 Jenny told the cops that Clara had come to Delhi a year back and was jobless for the past few months. She did ran dom jobs that came her way .She had invited Rakim to join them over the weekend.
 
 A team from Vasant Vihar police station later reached the apartment and sealed the room where the two were found. A crime and forensic team was also called in to lift evidence.
 
 Senior police officers said the deaths, prima facie, were related to drug overdose coupled with consumption of alcohol. Cops have requested the hospital authorities to constitute a medical board to conduct an autopsy. The family of the girls have been contacted and asked to reach Delhi.
 
