PUNE: With the   having suggested a rainwater harvesting facility at the   building to deal with any form of water crises, airport officials said that space will not be an issue with the airport already having received additional land from the   for carrying out expansion plans.

 At a meeting held late last month chaired by   and committee chairman Anil Shirole, the issue was discussed and it was decided that apart from notifying the Pune Municipal Corporation about any water shortage at the airport, rainwater harvesting should also be taken up by the authorities.
 
 "The issue is under consideration. However, for any new project we need a proper viability study and also see and select a suitable spot or site. The study is expected to be conducted soon. As far as space is concerned, the IAF has given a total of 31.84 acres of land to the airport to go ahead with the expansion plan, which includes setting up of a new and improved terminal building. However, it will be difficult to come up with a time frame for the same," an airport official told TOI.
 
 The IAF provided land to the Pune airport earlier this year. First, 15.84 acres of land were given while in the next phase, 16 acres of additional land were provided. The state government and the   (AAI) have to provide the IAF some land near the airport in lieu of the same.
 
 "Rainwater harvesting is important in the current scenario. The city of Pune witnesses severe water shortage in several areas during summer months. The airport, at times, faces water problems too and water tankers have to be called in. A tender was floated in May for supply of water through water tankers at Pune airport during 2017-18. So, with rainwater harvesting, one can save the money spent on tankers and be self-sufficient, if not fully. Technical details on how much water can be saved, how the plan will be implemented etc cannot be divulged unless a study is done," another official pointed out.
 
 According to the AAI website, the built-up area of Pune airport's terminal is 19,500 square meters. It has been estimated that a total of 80 lakh commuters will be flying in and out of the airport in 2017-18 and the total number of flight movements presently stands at 158.
 
