NAGPUR: In a bid to making Nagpur a Smart City, the   of   (NMC) has proposed   in all 38 prabhags of 10 zones.

 However, the   is sitting on the proposal, revealed a source from the NMC’s health department. The delay is set to effect the NMC’s ranking, the source said. 
 
 The contest was proposed in view of the urban development ministry team reviewing the city’s   in December. The health department has made a list of zone-wise competition, which included awareness programmes on segregation of garbage (dry and wet at doorsteps) and proper lifting of segregated waste.
 
 TOI carried out a survey across the city, which revealed that lifting of garbage was not managed properly. It even spotted that garbage is not being cleared in many areas for days together.
 
 TOI has been reporting how not only vacant plots, but even roadsides have turned into a dumping yard in many parts of the city and have become a nuisance in residential areas. The city generates around 1,100 metric tonnes (MT) of garbage every day. As against it, the NMC, through a private firm, treats only 200 MT while 900 MT is being dumped at the Bhandewadi-based yard.
 
 In 2015, the city was ranked 20 among 73 cities (with a population of 10 lakh or more or state capital), while in 2014 the NMC bagged the 256th rank of the total 476 cities. This time, the civic body will have to prove its standing from among 500 cities across the country.
 
 However, the civic body failed to make it to the top 10 cities due to poor solid waste treatment and bad community, public and household toilets.
 
 The officer said the proposal was prepared aiming to make the city clean and beautiful. “The proposal was prepared focusing on sensitive areas on priority basis as there is much need of cleanliness there. We also wanted the people to support the NMC to keep the surroundings neat and clean,” he said.
 
 Another important component of the proposal was that the department also focused on lifting of debris or waste material lying on roads or public property in various areas.
 
 “Had the civic administration implemented the proposal, the entire city would have been cleaned in a phased manner. On completion of this drive, our city would be much cleaner. In fact, the contest would have helped the NMC to improve its ranking,” the officer said.
 
 The NM’s previous cleanliness drive last year was unsuccessful, as claims of the authorities did not meet reality.
 
 Additional municipal commissioner R Sonawane admitted that there was a proposal to hold prabhag-wise competitions, but it could not held due to some reasons. He said though NMC is ready for the ranking, citizens should also actively participate to make Nagpur a Smart City.
 
