' ' actor   made a surprise visit to Delhi for the   last month, where he spoke about 'Baahubali', his love for Delhi's food, why Indian films need to be promoted more at places like Comic Con, and the growing market for big fantasy films in India, among other things.

 
 
 "Delhi is a place I identify with great food. It's very rare that I land in Delhi in a personal capacity. It's always for work, so I hardly get to explore much. But whenever I'm here, I try to get as many meals as I can, and at as many different places as possible. I particularly like the restaurants in  , near  , but I keep discovering new places every time I'm here."
 
 
 
 'I used to go to so many comic book shows and Comic Cons across the country, and we'd see stalls of Marvel and DC promoting their films. After the first film came out, we knew there was a second in the franchise, we decided what better way to take it to people than through comic cons, and thought of promoting Baahubali at Delhi Comic Con. It's a step forward for Indian cinema. I'm hoping there will be many more franchise films in Indian cinema, similar to this format, and we will have more fans of homegrown Indian superheroes.'
 
 
 
 "I started my career in films as a visual effects supervisor. From then, till the time I became an actor, there was always some hope that somebody in India would make such visually spectacular cinema. With 'Baahubali', my prayers were answered. Getting a chance to be a part of it was like the cherry on the cake."
 
 
 
 "While some of us grew up on Marvel and DC, there are a lot of us, like me, who grew up on Amar Chitra Katha. A film like 'Baahubali' is a reflection of the generation that grew up on these comics. In the west, they are making grand movies with their established superheroes, it's time we utilised the treasure trove of comics that we have to create more franchises here. If Baahubali ' a story that was new to people ' can do so well, why can't others?"
  
 
 
 "What you see right now is a shrunken down version of me! I was about 20 kg heavier, all bulked up. When I gained weight, I feared that I would never be able to get back to my former size. It needs a lot hard work. We train with weapons, learn a new language and warfare tactics, etc. It's like you are inside your own little world, and during that time you are just shooting, nothing exists outside that world."
 
 
 
  
