KOLKATA: East Bengal club gave under-fire coach   some breathing space, saying he would continue till the end of the season at a time when fans have started calling for his head.

 Two days after the 1-2 loss to   in Siliguri, which virtually knocked East Bengal out of I-League title race, Morgan was asked to meet the club officials on Tuesday. Following an hour-long closed-door meeting with him, football secretary   said the Perth-based Englishman would be in charge of the team for the remaining three I-League matches.
 
 "Nothing about his sacking came up for discussion today. Yes, we are unhappy with the team's performances and some players' commitment has also raised questions, but the coach will continue to be in charge of the team until the end of I-League," Bhattacharya said.
 
 "Our aim is now to win the next three matches and finish as close as possible to the top of the table," he added.
 
 Will he also manage the side in the Federation Cup?
 
 "The club's contract with him runs until the end of the season (May 31) and we are keen to honour it. But you never know what happens next day," Bhattacharya replied cryptically.
 
 Federation Cup - a trophy Morgan had helped East Bengal lift twice in his first stint - starts at Cuttack on May 7.
 
 Earlier in the day, Morgan faced "go back" calls from a section of supporters at the club ground when he took his players for a training session. While he kept a distance from the agitating supporters, some senior players stepped in to douse the protest.
 
 Hours later, following his meeting with the club officials, a grim-faced Morgan also drove away from the club without facing any queries from the newspersons.
 
 While Morgan survived his job, his assistant Warren Hackett's fate seems to be hanging in balance. Hackett is now serving a four-match suspension, meaning he can't sit on the dug-out in any of the remaining I-League matches. Goalkeeping coach Abhijit Mondal is also set to get the boot in a fallout of the team's derby debacle.
 
 "We have left the matter about Hackett's future to the coach's hands. We are expecting a decision from him (Morgan) soon," Bhattacharya maintained.
 
 However, following Morgan's recommendation, the club is set to impose a financial penalty on Trinidad and Tobago striker Willis Plaza, who was red-carded for hitting Bagan defender Anas Edathodika during the derby, forcing East Bengal to play with 10 men in the final 25 minutes.
 
