NASHIK: Three spots here with mythological references to Lord Ram would be developed as part of the Centre’s Ramayan circuit plan under the Union   ministry’s   Scheme. 

 “The tourism department will prepare a detailed project report on this and all stakeholders will be involved in the project. It will include infrastructure and tourism amenities,” Valsa Nair-Singh, principal secretary of the state government’s tourism and culture department, told TOI on Thursday. 
 
 “We will have a Ramayana circuit in Nagpur as well. We are still in the initial stage and will prepare the   for both the cities,” she added.
 
 On Wednesday, the Union tourism ministry announced inclusion of Nashik and Nagpur in the Ramayana circuit of its Swadesh Darshan  . It sought a DPR for the two cities on the Ramayana circuit plan that aims at boosting religious tourism. The other 11 destinations are Ayodhya, Nandigram, Shringhverpur and Chitrakoot (UP), Sitamarhi, Buxar and Darbhanga (Bihar), Jagdalpur ( ), Bhadrachalam (Telangana), Hampi (Karnataka) and Rameshwaram (Tamil Nadu). 
 
 On the locations to be developed in Nashik, Nair said they have just begun the project work and the spots were yet to be finalised. “For each circuit, a minimum three destinations will be developed. It will be like cluster development. The tourism department will share it with all stakeholders,” said Nair.
 
 On the possible areas of development in the three destinations, she said, “Basic infrastructure, tourism amenities and a facilitation centre, bathrooms and washrooms, an information centre, railing, pathways and parking will be the focus areas. We have just started with the work. All the places will be explored before we finalise the spots in accordance with the feasibility. We will have a clear picture by 10 days.” 
 
 There are a number of locations in the city that can be developed as part of the circuit plan with Ramkund being the obvious choice. Besides, locations such as Ramgaya Kund or Ramgaya Tirtha in front of Naroshankar temple, where Lord Ram had performed the last rites of ‘pind daan’ of father King Dashrath (as mentioned in the Nashik Gazette), Seeta Kund, Laxman Kund, Sarvateerth in Taked, around 22km from here where Jatayu had a war with Marich demon, Seeta Gumpha — the resting place for Ram and Seeta, Ramshej fort and Tapovan can also be developed. The locations will be finalised only after the feasibility of the these places, for which a consultant will be appointed. 
 
 Nashij is also on the Union government’s Swadesh Darshan map. Ramkund, being the hub of various rituals, brings lakhs of Hindus here from across the country and even beyond every year. Mythology has it that during his exile, Lord Ram had spent a significant time in Nashik. The city’s religious significance increases when it hosts Kumbh Mela every 12 years.
 
