NAGPUR: The top brass of the city cops are fuming after government pleader   failed to file an affidavit in the   (VCA) case even though a draft was submitted to her office on Monday. The high court judges, who had earlier accused the cops of being extortionists, had threatened to hand over the case to CBI on Thursday for their delay in filing the reply.

 The cricket body had gone to court after the police registered two offences against its top office-bearers like, president, secretary, vice-presidents et al. In the FIR, it was mentioned that the India vs England T20 match was held on January 29 without the necessary permissions in place. 
 
 In its plea before the court, VCA accused the cops of bullying them for passes to watch the match at the Jamtha stadium. The station in-charge of Hingna, DCPs Deepali Masirkar (Zone-1) and Ravindrasingh Pardeshi (special branch) were made the respondents.
 
 A top police source told TOI that they were surprised that their affidavit was not filed even though they had handed over the final draft to Dangre. “We are also shocked that the contents of the third and latest VCA affidavit is a point-by-point rebuttal of our reply which has not been filed,” said the source, adding, “It clearly indicates our reply was leaked from Dangre’s office.”
 
 In its third affidavit, VCA had replied on the issue occupancy certificate not granted to the stadium. “This was one of the points mentioned in our draft reply. Now, unless there has been a leak from Dangre’s office, how did VCA reply to it,” asked the source.
 
 Police claim that they got an acknowledgement from Dangre’s office after submitting the papers on Monday. They kept waiting for the next two days for a confirmation from Dangre that the affidavit had been filed. When it did not happen, they were hopeful it would be done on Thursday, which was the day of hearing. 
 
 At Thursday’s hearing, Justice   and Justice Indira Jain tore into the police for their casual approach. “If you don’t file a reply, we will transfer the case to CBI,” they said.
 
 Strongly refuting ‘leak’ charges, Dangre said, “No affidavit was handed over to me on Monday. We are not in clerical service to issue receipts. My office takes instruction to prepare the affidavit. We are communicating with the senior officers on a daily basis. The affidavit was not filed as the probe was not over,” she said. 
 
 It is learnt the three respondent cops are now planning to hire the services of private counsels. They have asked the law and judiciary department to allot them separate public prosecutors. There are also rumours that a prominent private counsellor may represent the three cops.
 
 The police source said that the three cops were also going to seek permission to appear in person or be allowed to clarify their stand on the allegations made against them by VCA. 
 
 Taking a non-controversial stand,   told TOI the probe was under way. “It would be completed soon after which the police affidavit will be filed. I have no idea about any leak from the government pleader’s office,” he said.
 
