KOLKATA: A rare genetic   — Niemann Pick Type C — that has no cure has struck a 24-year-old city youth, prompting his family to launch a worldwide search for medicines, including those still under trial in the US. Niemann is a crippling disorder that affects one in 10 lakhs, triggering hallucination, loss of limb and eye movement, loss of speech, eventually leading to death. 

 Baguiati resident   is probably the only patient to be detected with the terminal illness in the last decade and a half in Kolkata. Now under treatment at the   (INK), Debaneel’s ailment was detected two years ago. His first symptoms started showing nearly a decade ago when he was in school. But despite seeking treatment at multiple hospitals, the disease could not be diagnosed till 2014. Debaneel had lost much of his limb movements by then, his eyesight was failing and he had difficulty in swallowing food. 
 
 “The diagnosis left us devastated but we decided not to give up without a fight. I got in touch with several experts around the country and abroad. After numerous e-mails to doctors in USA, UK, Australia and Turkey, I have managed to identify a US institute that is now experimenting with a drug. Even though it’s still at the trial stage, they have promised to send us the medicine,” said Reeha Paul, Debaneel’s elder sister.
 
 “The initial symptoms are similar to that of a psychiatric patient. But they keep proliferating and the diagnosis is not easy. In this case, it took years to detect Debaneel’s ailment. There is yet no medicine for Niemann, other than one that helps to control the symptoms. It has to be imported from Singapore or the USA,” said Hrishikesh Kumar, head of the department of neurology at INK who is treating Debaneel.
 
 A DNA test conducted at NIMHANS in Bangalore detected Debaneel’s ailment. His family was asked to take him back to Kolkata since the disease was untreatable. “We consulted doctors at INK and came to know about the medicine. Then, I started searching the Internet and identified hospitals around the world that were working on Niemann drugs. The   (NIH) in Maryland, USA is one. They not only responded to my queries, but even put me in touch with a doctor in Mumbai who will assist in getting the under-trial medicines,” said Reeha.
 
 But time is running out for the youngster who had to give up studies after Class XI. Debaneel has lost 20kg in the last eight months and weighs a mere 44kg now. He is confined to bed and can’t consume anything other than liquids. Even though the US medicine costs $2500 a file, NIH has promised to send it free of cost. “Since it’s an under-trial drug they can’t sell it. Even though its effectiveness is yet to be proved, this is probably the only option for Debaneel now,” said Kumar. 
 
