MUMBAI: A special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act court on Monday convicted two brothers arrested in 2015 for sexually assaulting their minor sisters. While the younger one (21) was sentenced to 10 years' imprisonment for raping the 16-year-old victim, the older brother (23), has been sentenced to seven years' imprisonment for sexually assaulting his 12-year-old sister. Their mother (42) too was convicted and sentenced to two years in   the victims and inflicting   when they tried to confide in her. 

 The matter came to light after the older of the two victims confided in a neighbour about the repeated assaults. Special public prosecutor   said that the confident testimony of both victims helped nail the accused. In her deposition before the court, the 16-year-old victim said that she had nine siblings. She further stated that three of her sisters were married and she never confided in them. 
 
 The victim said that some members of the family used to sleep on the mezzanine floor of the house. She told the court that during one such night in 2011 her brother tried to rape her and when she pushed him, he fled. She further said that the next day she confided in one of her other brothers who beat up the accused. The victim said that the brother who saved her however died three months later. She said after his death the accused began to rape her. 
 
 The victim further stated that her younger sister too later told her that one of their other brother's too had been sexually assaulting her for over a year. The minor said that when she decided to leave the house, her mother beat her and accused her of running away with a boy. She submitted that in April 2015 a neighbour saw the burn marks on her face and hand when she went to fetch water and questioned her about them. She then confided in the neighbour.
 
 The victim further told the court that later she again tried to flee the house. However, she was caught by her mother. When her brothers arrived home they assaulted the victim along with their mother. 
 
 The neighbour who also deposed, told the court that sometime in April 2015, the victim came to her crying and said she was afraid her brothers would kill her. The neighbour said the minor pleaded with her to save her life. The woman deposed she then spoke to others in whom the minor had confided and they decided to call the cops. Cops then arrived and rescued the two girls. Both victims were then taken to the   and their statements were recorded. The cops arrested the accused.
 
