NAGPUR: Sending a stern message, Maharashtra Real Estate Regulatory Authority (MahaRERA)   Gautam Chatterjee on Saturday made it clear that builders and developers won’t be getting any   once the 90-day registration window is over.

 After becoming the first state to implement the central real estate Act on May 1, the government had given the industry players time till July 31 to get their projects registered on its website maharera.mahaonline.gov.in. 
 
 However, the real estate watchdog has so far received lukewarm response from the industry.
 
 Chatterjee, who spoke to the media during an interactive session organized by CREDAI Nagpur Metro, said that only 10 online applications, including one from Nagpur, were received in May
 
 Sharing the dais with CREDAI representatives, Chatterjee directly asked them why their members have failed to get the registration done.
 
 “A few days ago, a forwarded post landed in my WhatsApp account. Probably, they assumed even I was a builder. The message asked builders not to worry as there are indications that the deadline of July 31 is likely to be extended. I want to make it clear that the government has no such plans. Once the window is closed and we receive any complaint, strict action would be taken against violators,” Chatterjee said.
 
 CREDAI representatives clarified that they have already welcomed the   but gathering accurate information is taking time. The members are busy working out contents of agreement, expenses of different projects, estimated possession date, etc. The data has to be accurate as it can’t be changed later and also it attract heavy penalty. Therefore, it is taking time for builders and developers to register their projects, they said.
 
 Chatterjee responded that merely uploading details will not be considered as registration but builders will need to have the certificate in hand. “I am not a super human being. Each application will take at least 45 minutes to be processed so if 10,000 requests come in a day it won’t be possible to check them. It is better they don’t wait till the 89th day but do it as soon as possible,” he said.
 
 CREDAI officials said they have already told their members to apply between July 15 to 20.
 
 Chatterjee, a senior IAS officer who has been holding consumer awareness meets across state, said henceforth citizens shouldn’t buy   in unregistered projects. “The Act is a game-changer and will get the consumers to make a well-informed choice. The industry shouldn’t think of it as another regulatory hurdle. The Act will give them a seal of authenticity. While promoting their projects, builders can proudly mention ‘MahaRERA recognized’ to gain the trust of buyers,” he said.
 
 The newly-appointed MahaRERA chairman also said that he will be soon creating a new e-mail ID for receiving complaints.
 
