Pool cars ferrying schoolchildren have been in the news for flouting multiple traffic rules and causing a spate of accidents. But what is not known is that many of these cars are resorting to one of the most unsafe practices on our roads -using resoled tyres -to cut costs even though this is a leading cause of accidents.
Resoling is the process where a new strip of tread is pasted on the worn-out tyre, giving it a fresh lease of life. It also costs a fraction of a new tyre. But the scary part is that this practice, though rampant and illegal, was only restricted to commercial vehicles like buses and trucks till recently . Now cars that ferry schoolchildren are also getting tyres resoled to save money . “Earlier, it was only trucks and buses, but now many small cars also come to us. These vehicles are mostly commercial,“ said Md Jamin Ansari, the owner of North   Tyre Service near Raja Subodh Mallick Square.
 
 Ansari however claimed that resoled tyres from his shop were as good as new and would run more than 25,000 km.
 
 Most shops that resole tyres in central Kolkata pointed to this change in customers. “I sell at least six-seven tyres daily and that includes   and small cars as well. I have also seen drivers of private cars installing resoled tyres from my shop and taking the money of a new tyre from their employers,“ said Md Iqbaal, a tyre trader from Mullick Bazar.
 
 The reason is that resoled tyres are much cheaper. While a new car tyre costs around `4,000, the same tyre can be resoled for as little as Rs 600 or less.
 
 Though it is primarily the duty of the motor vehicles department to check the roadworthiness of a vehicle, which includes the condition of tyres, hardly any steps are taken to stop the use of resoled tyres. “It is impossible to check the tyres of each bus on the road. When they come for a fitness test, the owners and drivers of these buses simply hire original tyres for a few hundred bucks and go back to using resoled tyres once the test is done,“ said an inspector from  .
 
