UDAIPUR: Ranked 417 amongst 476 cities in the country in August last, surveyed under the   Survekshan conducted by the Central government, Udaipur is eyeing to improve its performance in the second edition of the survey. 

 Though Udaipur has earned praises from chief minister   herself many times for the cleanliness seen at public places, however, the residents are sceptical on getting any improved ranking in the national survey that would be carried out in 500 cities till February 4. 
 
 The cities evaluated will be given points out of 40 for solid waste management, out of 20 for waste disposal and out of 30 for adequate number of toilets which will include household, community and public toilets. Udaipur city profile comprises 55 wards in the municipal area, including markets, temples, public toilets, bus stands and railway stations. 
 
 Most of the interior city areas see unabated littering and disposal of garbage, thus lowering standards of hygiene and sanitation in these areas. “Slum dwellers at Machhla Magra, City Railway station, Sevashram choraha and many other places around Pichhola lake continue to defecate in the open. The sever lines continue to pollute the lake waters,” complained Anil Mehta, an expert on water engineering. 
 
 “Though there have been lot of programs undertaken under the smart city project, there isn’t much hope of seeing a big improvement in ranking as all the programs are running on papers and not implemented actually,” claimed Mahesh Sharma, retired professor and member of task force on wetlands. Directors and consultants have not been appointed as per the provisions under the smart city program. 
 
 The garbage disposal system is not satisfactory and there is a shortage of employees, he added. Against the requirement of 2,400 sanitation workers, the UMC has just 1500 staff. Of the 55 wards only 19 has the door-to-door garbage collection system. Only 11 vehicles are enabled with GPS tracking. On an average 90 to 125 ton garbage is collected from the city area daily, however, spilled trash bins and animals rolling over them is a common sight. 
 
 Residents rue the situation of garbage disposal in the city. Prime residential locations like Ashok Nagar, Bhupalpura, various sectors of Hiran Magri are haunted by the menace of stray animals. Instead of making efforts to check the nuisance from these creatures, the   appears to have stopped its drives against dogs, pigs and orphaned cattles. Communities continue to rear pigs in the city limits undeterred by laws. However, authorities claim there have been many positive changes in the city in past six to eight months. 
 
 “There was a total of 90 odd modules that were converted into 35 projects till October last. Detailed project report for 24 hours of water supply has been prepared. Project management consultants are in place and experts including waste water, heritage, urban infra have already assumed their positions. So a lot of efforts are already underway,” Sidharth Sihag, commissioner UMC informed.
 
 Swachh Survekshan-2017
 
 It is a survey commissioned by the ministry of urban development and conducted by the Quality Council of India to assess sanitation and hygiene conditions of 500 cities. Cities with a population of one lakh and above each, heritage and tourism cities, capital cities with less than 1 lakh population are included in this survey, the second since the launch of Swachh Bharat Mission.The cities will be evaluated by collection of data from municipal bodies, data collected from direct observation by a team and citizen feedback.
 
 
