GURUGRAM The   has stayed the allotment of plot in Gurgaon by   to a senior  . The state government in June had approved the allotment to Suprabha Dahiya, IAS, allegedly in violation of Huda’s own statute. In their order dated July 27, the two-judge bench of justices S J Vazifdar and Harinder Singh Sidhu also said a date for draw of lots (for allotment of plot) shall not be finalised till any further court order.

 In his petition, Gurgaon resident Hemant Kumar, the aggrieved party, had highlighted that Huda had violated its own rule to favour Dahiya while allotting plots, even as it had denied similar treatment to others with similar grounds for plot allotment, namely himself. “In June, the state government had approved the plot allotment to the senior bureaucrat, overlooking a letter by the Huda chief administrator, warning that differential treatment in allotment of alternative plots to senior IAS officers may lead to litigation,” said Kumar.
 
 The controversy originated in 2004, when Huda had invited applications for allotment of plots in the then newly-carved Sector 57. Huda allotted plots on a portion of the sector’s land which was under litigation. Subsequently, it failed to give possession of these plots. In February 2014, following direction of Punjab and Haryana high court, Huda conducted a fresh draw for affected people, and allotted them alternative plots in Sector 50.
 
 Once again, the allotted land was under litigation. Yet again, allottees did not get possession. Hemant Kumar approached the high court in late 2015, following which the court asked Huda to settle the case in three months. 
 
 Huda then allotted alternative plots to Hemant Kumar (plot number 1,374), Suprabha Dahiya, IAS (plot number 1,376) and Tripta Sachdeva (plot number 1,377) in Sector 51. “The plots are in an area with no approach road or other civic amenities,” said Kumar.
 
 Meanwhile, Dahiya approached Gurgaon’s consumer dispute redress forum and pleaded that the fresh plot she had been offered is not similarly situated with respect to her earlier allotment in Sector 57, and refused to accept it. In February 2016, the forum directed Huda to allot her a suitable plot.
 
 Citing the forum’s order in Dahiya’s case, Sachdeva also approached the forum. In June 2016, it passed a similar order. “Unlike with Dahiya, in my case the authority challenged the district forum’s order in the state forum,” said Sachdeva.
 
 Hemant Kumar, who has been fighting the case for 13 years, said, “When I approached Huda and requested my plot be changed as well, they said only two plots of same size (1 kanal) is available in Sector 51. Mind you, Huda had offered 13 plots, in sectors 43, 46 and 51, to Dahiya.”
 
 Documents in possession of TOI show when Dahiya had requested Huda to allot her plot number 601P in Sector 43, Huda had proposed 13 alternative plots, including in Sector 43. In case of Kumar, though, Huda had offered only two alternatives in Sector 51. “In case the plots in sectors 43 and 46 are to be considered for Dahiya, it will be in the authority’s interest to provide similar options to others, to avoid litigation,” reads a letter by the Huda chief administrator in April 2017.
 
 Kumar said going by Huda’s policy, alternative plots can only be allotted in adjoining sectors. “Sector 43, which is on Golf Course Road, is not adjoining Sector 51. Yet, the state government allotted a plot in it to Dahiya,” said Kumar.
 
 A senior Huda official in Panchkula said there is no irregularity in the matter. “It’s sub-judice. We’ll file a reply in court,” he said.
 
