PUNE: Families pay   when their girls are “ugly” and “handicapped”, the HSC (Std XII)   for sociology states. Under the head, “Consequences of dowry”, the book speaks about negotiations by families during a son’s marriage to fund the wedding of one of their daughters. It also talks about the bride’s family turning into “criminals” to arrange for dowry.

 Other reasons for giving dowry, as listed in the book, include religion, the caste system, social prestige and the compensation principle. 
 
 Three years after the book was published, anonymous complaints have been made regarding the objectionable text in chapter 3, ‘Major social problems in India’, which uses the words “ugly” and “handicapped”. On Thursday, social media was abuzz with the controversial excerpts of the textbook, which was prepared by the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education. 
 
 State education minister Vinod Tawde told TOI, “We will withdraw the objectionable part and also issue a notice to the textbook officials concerned.”
 
 In a statement issued late on Thursday evening, Tawde said he has spoken to the board chairman. “The issue relates to the school textbook syllabus and there is an academic board that decides the textbooks. I feel that the board has tried to reflect social reality in this chapter. However, if the media has objections regarding the content, we will surely think about revising it,” he said.
 
 Tawde said pertinent points on this issue would be sent to the board and the suggestions from the board officials would be studied carefully.
 
 Programme head of NGO Pratham, Madhuri Pai, said, “Ugly and handicapped could easily have been replaced with perceived physical attributes. I prefer disabled to handicapped. Sociology is a science and writers must choose their words carefully. While writing for an impressionable age group, one has to be extremely cautious.”
 
 Senior sociologist   observed that dowry was “market-related” and that marriage had also become a “market”. “Mentioning ‘ugly’ and ‘handicapped’ to describe girls is in itself a very wicked and crooked way of looking at things. Why didn’t the writer instead write about the anti-dowry Act and the past movements that were led to stop the practice of dowry? I feel the book should be banned. A criminal offence should be registered against the people behind the book.”
 
 Similarly, sociologist and professor Nandini Sardesai said the textbook has been written from a chauvinistic point of view. “Students should just be told that dowry is a social evil and it must be eradicated no matter what. Steps must be taken to rectify this because it sends out wrong signals to students.”
 
 While experts have expressed their reservations over the content, one of the six authors of the textbook whom TOI contacted said the excerpts are being seen in isolation. “The textbook has to be read carefully. We have said that these (ugliness and handicap) are some of the reasons why dowry exists. We have also included an advisory on how girls should and can refuse to marry a groom whose family demands dowry,” said the author.
 
 Maharashtra right to education (RTE) forum convenor Hemangi Joshi said, “Sociologists go far beyond sympathy and analyse the perceptions, biases and social systems responsible for situations. Sociology is not a subject of citizenship building but it helps equip students critically analyse social situations and issues.”
 
 The objectionable paragraph: “If a girl is ugly and handicapped, then it becomes very difficult for her to get married. To marry such girls, bridegroom and his family demand more dowry. Parents of such girls become helpless and pay dowry as per the demands of the bridegroom’s family. It leads to rise in the practice of dowry system.”
 
 How the board publishes textbooks: A nine-member committee of teachers, academicians and subject experts is formed, which prepares the content for a book. The content is shared and reviewed by subject experts, who suggest changes. The changes are discussed with the core committee. The final draft of the book is prepared in consultation with the subject experts and committee members. The books are sent for printing.
 
 Earlier instances of bungling: In 2014, the SSC history textbook was riddled with errors. For instance, Africans were referred to by a word, which is now considered offensive, throughout the book. Russian author Alexander Pushkin was wrongly referred to as Alexandria Pushkin
 
 In 2013, a map in the SSC geography textbook did not mention  . Andaman and   were also not plotted on one of the maps in the book. A class IX Hindi textbook and the class X and XII Urdu textbooks were full of errors.
 
 In a class VI history book, state textbook bureau Balbharati marked Mumbai’s Kanheri caves in the sea at the southern tip of the city. 
 
 In 2014, a class III geography textbook showed Backbay printed in place of Colaba while the Vasai and Malad creeks were marked on land.
 
 
