PATNA: The Grand Alliance in   was teetering on the brink of collapse amid growing indication that its disintegration may gather pace after presidential elections on Monday.

 The stand-off between   and his partner   worsened on Saturday when the CM’s camp made it clear that he would not resile from his demand that the RJD boss’s son, deputy CM  , furnish a response to each charge levelled against him by the CBI about discreet acquisition of assets in different parts.
 
 Lalu had said on Friday that he had replied on the corruption charges several times and he would do so before the CBI and ED when the agencies ask him to.
 
 Tejashwi skipped an official World Youth Skills Day function of the government chaired by Nitish on Saturday. Tejashwi was listed as a “distinguished guest” for the event and his name was also mentioned on the invitation cards. The Bihar CM refused to speak to reporters after the event.
 
 This was the first public event where Nitish and Tejashwi had to share the dais since the CBI raids on Lalu family on July 7 in connection with a land-for-railways hotels case. However, RJD spokesperson Manoj Jha said Tejashwi could not attend the function as he was unwell. JD(U) also attacked Lalu on Saturday with party general secretary Shyam Rajak saying Lalu should not be evasive about corruption charges against him and his family members. “If allegations of corruption have been made against Lalu’s family members, they must reply to the charges properly,” Rajak told TOI. He said Nitish’s stand on corruption is clear and there would be no compromise on that.
 
 JD(U) spokesperson Sanjay Singh advised Lalu to stand with the Grand Alliance during the ongoing “crisis”. “Nitish ji has never compromised with his ideology.
 
 Hence, Lalu should also follow the coalition dharma and stand with us at the time of such crisis,” Singh said.
 
 Jha defended Lalu and said explanation on corruption charges can only be given to the appropriate authority. “Are we going to convert ourselves into a banana republic? There are authorities concerned to ask such questions and we are bound to reply to them,” Jha told TOI. “People from all communities in Bihar know this is all part of a larger conspiracy hatched by   as they are misusing central agencies like the CBI and I-T department to target Lalu and his family because they (BJP) know people in Bihar believe in him,” Jha said.
 
 
