HYDERABAD: A   movement against the proposed Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP) abutting   was re-launched on Sunday with 300 visitors thronging the area to raise concerns on how the SRDP project, meant to build a mesh of flyover/junctions would be detrimental for the park's ecosystem. 

 At least 1,394 trees will be either chopped off or trans-located for the project as per the  , activists say. The plan has drawn massive criticism from citizens who came together to protect the only breathing space in the heart of the city and build up a citizens movement demanding roll back of the project.
 
 The KBR National Park with its 600 species of plants, including rare medicinal plants, 120 species of birds, 20 mammal species, about 20 species of reptiles and amphibians along with hundreds of species of insects, is not only an ecosystem in itself but also helps purify the air and maintain the temperature. 
 
 Being located on a ridge, the park is instrumental in maintaining the city's water table apart from the fact that it serves as a retreat for scores of citizens from across age groups. 
 
 "Chopping off the trees will upset the fine ecological balance that the park has and it should be left as it is. Right now a walk in the park can make one feel close to nature, but the park will lose its purpose, if a mesh of flyovers go through the outer edges," said a daily jogger at the park, M Sreedhar.
 
 The issue was taken cognisance by the   last year and the project was put on hold. The ambitious project is estimated to cost 4,051 crore, including land acquisition for the integrated project covering 2025 km. 
 
 Hyderabad Rising, the citizen's group fighting against the project says it should be shelved as it does not have the mandatory permissions, including clearances under law. 
 
 Also they argue that flyovers are not a solution to ease out traffic congestion, as it has been well documented and proved everywhere. "They rather should pave way and increase the number of vehicles. Once the Metro rail traffic congestion in major intersections will be eased out. The SRDP on the other hand will move traffic over short distances, leading to further congestion and bottlenecks," read an official release from Hyderabad Rising. 
 
 The SRDP project, which was taken up suo motu by NGT is now reserved for judgement. "As the decision is likely to come any time now, we have re-launched the movement. we will be holding awareness sessions every Sunday from now on," said  , from the citizen's group. 
 
