Noida: The district administration on Thursday sealed ten farmhouses being illegally built on the   floodplains. Most of these farmhouses are situated near Noida’s Sector 135 and   village, located off the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway. The action followed an Allahabad high court order of July 6, 2017, in which the petitioner had claimed that the land originally belonged to the Indian Air Force.

 On May 20, 2013, the National Green Tribunal had also ordered demolition of all illegal structures on riverbed and floodplains of Yamuna and Hindon in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana.
 
 According to sources, the sealing drive was carried out by sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), Sadar, Anjani Kumar, on the directions of district magistrate B N Singh. “As per the orders of the tribunal, all constructions taking place on the riverbed are illegal. On Thursday, we stopped all ongoing constructions in the area,” Kumar told TOI. “We have also sealed ten premises,” he said. 
 
 “I will now submit a report to the DM for further action. There are more than a hundred other farmhouses, which have already completed construction in the area,” he said.
 
 When asked about the future course of action, the DM said that the floodplain is within the jurisdiction of Noida Authority and the irrigation department. “I have written to them regarding the illegal structures nearly two months back. I will again ask them to initiate action,” he said.
 
 The DM said that Thursday’s action was in compliance with an Allahabad high court order of July 6, 2017. While allowing a PIL of a Noida resident,  , a division bench comprising Chief Justice D B Bhosle and Justice Yashwant Verma had directed that the land be freed of encroachers.
 
 “This land had to be freed from the clutches of the encroachers as per the court’s orders and handed back to the Indian Air Force, which we have done,” Singh said.
 
 The IAF on November 26, 1950, had acquired 482 acres under its Tilpat firing and bombing range located in Faridabad and some villages of the then Bulandshahr district. When the air force stopped using this floodplain, now under the jurisdiction of Noida Authority, the farmers started agricultural activities. Later, the land mafia constructed farmhouses in the area. The petitioner in July 2015 had alleged that the mafia had encroached on the floodplain that was reserved for a bombing range since 1950.
 
