Actress   says being an outsider, it is the personal choice of actors to be aggressive about their work. The   had featured in a cameo in 
 's 2010 drama '
 ' before making her debut in 'Dus Tola' opposite  . 

 She is now be seen in the Academy-award nominated ' ' and says doing the right film was important to her since she did not have 'any advisors or mentors in the industry.' 
 
 "When you are from the outside the journey oscillates between sheer optimism to downright fear very often. In the midst of all of this, it was important for me to keep my head on my shoulders and remain sane and happy as a human above all," Pallavi said.
 
  
  
 "I have, therefore, always operated on the premise that work begets work. I am very pleased with the repertoire of films I have been part of, especially coming without a support system in the industry and in India generally..." 
 
 Pallavi, who has featured in 
  like '
 ' and '
 ' feels in the West, the emphasis is more on the content, something which is not the case with  . "The biggest takeaway in working on a film like 'Lion' is that a story and a script is paramount. In 
  we are often encouraged to be part of films for reasons other than the story and the craftsmanship." 
 
 "It was amazing to work with a group of actors and technicians who put the film above individuality, and it shows in the product. It is a gut-wrenching story, beautifully woven for the screen by director  ." 
 
 It is for this reason that the   born Indian actress feels doing a small -though beautifully etched out- role in international cinema could give an actor more recognition than a run of the mill work in Bollywood. "I agree that in International films it's not the size or length of a role which counts, it is about being a part of a worthy project and contributing to the graph of the narrative as a whole."
 
 "I have worked in a number of international projects including Lion - and have felt just as creatively satisfied in supporting roles as well as in lead roles." 'Lion' released this Friday.
 
  
  
  
  
  
