An audio clip where leading distributor exhibitor   lashed out at the practise of inflating   figures in   went viral on WhatsApp more than a year ago. Now, the veteran is at it again -another clip of his with duration of around 30 minutes has been doing the rounds from Thursday morning. In the clip, he has criticised the rampant increase in the number of fake success meets and celebrations of films, despite distributors incurring heavy losses. He has listed names of movies that reaped profits and those which burnt the hands of distributors in several areas, in the clip.

 Subramaniam explains, “Profits and losses are part of any business. But the only industry where people `celebrate failures' would be the cinema industry . Why do the makers of unsuccessful films resort to fake claims and revel in false prestige? How long do they think they can fool everyone in the industry? When they quote bloated figures, we distributors have to face a lot of trouble -we have to answer to financiers who get confused owing to the untrue numbers being publicised by the makers.“
 
 Quiz him on the reason for actors or directors encouraging this trend, and he says, “They are projecting a successful image so as to attract producers for next projects and to hike their remuneration. The producers may not be aware of the reality as there is no transparency with respect to BO numbers. The number of films which release posters with the captions `immalaya vettri', `maaperum vettri', etc, and the ones which claim to have a successful run of 50, 100 or more days, are on an alarming rise, while distributors are suffering on the other side.“ This trend, he says, will only destroy the industry in the long run. “I got a call from actor-director Prakash Raj after he listened to the audio clip. He appreciated me for revealing the harsh truth.The makers and stars should ask the distributors about the theatre occupancy to know the reality, instead of giving gifts to each other to celebrate a failed film,“ he rues.Subramaniam says that he has witnessed real success for films of  ,   and a few films of well-known companies like AVM from a long time ago. “I also remember everyone praising MGR, for he personally used to check whether everyone associated with his films were happy . If not, he used to sign another film for the welfare of the concerned people. That was why he was Makkal Thilagam. I'm game for bringing any system which could reveal the actual figures of films' revenues.Many theatres are centralised now, though there are people who do not support this practise,“ he adds.
 
 Does he think that artistes should cut down their remuneration? Pat comes his reply, “I'm nobody to say that. Many stars are distributing their films -let them do it and understand what their actual market is. They should understand that adding fancy monikers to their names and appearing as super heroes on screen won't do the trick these days.“ 
 
