CHANDIGARH: Continuing his administrative shake-up for the second consecutive day, Punjab’s new chief minister Captain   on Friday elevated an ADGP-rank officer,  , a 1991-batch IPS who had probed Sukhbir Badal’s disproportionate assets (DA) case, as the new vigilance bureau (VB) director.

 Amarinder also transferred five more key officers of the previous   regime. Uppal was the supervisory officer of the DA case in which the chargesheet was filed during the then Amarinder government in 2003 against 15 accused, including Sukhbir on charges of amassing assets disproportionate to their income. With this appointment, Uppal has made a return to VB. He remained mostly sidelined during 2007-2017 SAD governments, serving as IG (litigation) until his last year’s promotion as ADGP (human resource development).
 
 In the past two days, Amarinder had reshuffled more than 93 officials, including 41 senior cops, many of whom enjoyed plum postings in the SAD regime. A retired IAS officer Suresh Kumar has been Amarinder’s new chief principal secretary. The 75-year-old chief minister is expected to meet his new team of bureaucrats and cops soon over ways to finance new development projects, cut down on VVIP culture and expenses to bring down Rs 1.3 lakh crore debt, attending piled up issues of pension and atta-dal grievances as well as creating employment opportunities as promised by the Congress manifesto.
 
 In transfers, Amarinder also ensured a balance between the key police portfolios as he has not allowed any DGP or ADGP rank officer to have a concentration of portfolios. During SAD rule, Arora had held both VB and police chief posts at one time. Some state police service cops have been preferred over IPS in a few districts.
 
 Arora, who has been allowed to continue as the DGP by Amarinder, on Friday withdrew his “willingness” for a central deputation which he had sought on March 6, barely five days before Punjab election results. A letter regarding this was sent by the Punjab home department to ministry of home affairs.
 
 Former chief minister Parkash Badal’s special principal secretary K J S Cheema has been sent to freedom fighters department as its secretary. Badal’s former principal secretaries Gagandeep Brar and Dr S K Raju have been made cooperation special secretary and finance secretary. Rahul Tiwari, a former principal secretary to Sukhbir, has been made revenue secretary.
 
 Amarinder has picked a young 2004-batch IAS officer Varun Roojam as his public relations director to handle media. The 38-year-old officer has headed key urban districts such as Mohali, Patiala, Amritsar and is known to enjoy a good reputation in both administrative and media fraternity.
 
