CHENNAI: It was hearbreaking enough that German couple   and Steffen Kagerah, who stopped over in Chennai while on a world tour, to lose their 18-month-old black Labrador cross Luke to thieves on Marina Beach. A false lead on Tuesday only made matters worse for the pair who hopes to find their loyal pooch before they have to leave the city.

 The red herring came from a tea stall owner in Kasimedu, who meant well, but misdirected the couple by informing them that he had seen Luke. The dog, he said, had been taking refuge near his shop in   for the past three days.
 
 The couple, travelling the world since April 2016, rushed to the spot — only to find a dog with a passing resemblance to Luke. The couple returned empty-handed and, having barked up the wrong tree, urgently started looking for other ways to find their beloved pet.
 
 At 4.30pm last Saturday, Steffen said, he had gone to the harbour to enquire about shipping their car to Sri Lanka while Janin was relaxing on the beach. Janin soon missed Luke’s familiar bark and started to look for him but he was nowhere to be found.
 
 “Some passersby saw an autorickshaw driver take Luke with him,” Janin said.
 
 On Tuesday morning, tea shop owner Arul from Kasimedu called up the couple after seeing advertisements that the couple had taken out in newspapers.
 
 “Arul told us that he found the dog outside his shop on Sunday morning,” Steffen said. “He described the dog and we believed it could be Luke. We were so eager to see him.”
 
 Unfortunately, it wasn’t Luke, he said. Arul said he thought the dog could be the pet the foreign couple had lost.
 
 “The dog did not want to go anywhere but drank milk that I gave him,” he said.
 
 The couple, who came into India on March 5 and travelled from Amritsar and Rameswaram, found Luke on the streets while in Greece last year. Janin and Steffen have offered a reward for any information about their missing pet. They’ve asked anyone who can help to contact them at syncrotravels@gmail.com.
 
