GURGAON: The residents of the Millennium City are forced to live in hell-like conditions, thanks to the apathy of Municipal Corporation of Gurgaon (MCG) which has failed to repair the main sewer line of the area. The residents not only have to bear the stench of dirty water overflowing onto the streets but also face the imminent danger of an epidemic outbreak in the locality.

 Ten days ago, the main waste water drain was damaged and started leaking profusely. Today, streets of   in Sector 10A have sewer water stagnating on the internal roads. It has become nearly impossible for them to walk without treading into the stinking pools that surround the houses. Those staying on the ground floors are forced to take measures to avoid being swamped in their own living space.
 
 “It is not just the stench. The sewer water is entering and flooding houses too. Soon, the entire population will be down with water-borne diseases like diarrhea or typhoid,” said  , a resident in the area.
 
 Residents complain that the civic authorities are immune to their pleas and no action has been taken to repair the sewer line despite repeated reminders.
 
 “Already the sewerage is mixing with the drinking water supply. Even purifiers prove ineffective in removing the stench and making the water drinkable. We have been boiling the water daily before drinking but this cannot continue forever,” says Ashwani Kumar, president of resident welfare association sector 10A.
 
 Water-borne diseases are infectious diseases spread primarily through contaminated water. Water is the chief medium for spread of these diseases and hence they are water-borne diseases.
 
 “Most intestinal diseases are infectious and are transmitted through faecal waste. These diseases are more prevalent in areas with poor sanitary conditions. Since these diseases are highly infectious, extreme care and hygiene should be maintained by people looking after an infected patient. Hepatitis, cholera, dysentery, and typhoid are the more common water-borne diseases that affect large populations in the tropical regional," said Dr.S.K.Mundhra, HOD   at Saroj Speciality Hospital.
 
 A visit to the area showed that the streets resembled dirty streams than pathways. The children are forced to stay indoors as parents don’t want them to step out into the mire and fall ill. The residents complained that the concerned MCG officials do not have machines to clear the mess. 
 
 "The matter has been brought to our notice and we will take care of it. We will take immediate action and resolve the problems," said V Umashankar, commissioner MCG.
 
