IMPHAL: BJP’s campaign for the upcoming state assembly election has taken a steady pace, with Union HRD minister and   in charge for the election Prakash Javadekar holding meetings here to finalize party tickets.

 Javadekar, who arrived here on Sunday, headed a core committee meeting of the party to discuss the modalities of issuing tickets and the list of probable candidates. A central core committee meeting will be held on Tuesday to finalize the matter, Javadekar said at a press meet at the party’s   office.
 
 After making inroads into the northeast through Assam, the saffron party is aiming at overthrowing the 15-year Congress regime in the state.
 
 Launching an attack on chief minister Okram Ibobi Singh, the Union minister sought his resignation owing to his “failure” to end the United Naga Council (UNC)-sponsored economic blockade on the state’s national highways. The blockade entered its 75th day on Sunday.
 
 Javadekar said the responsibility for prolonging the blockade lies with the Ibobi government since the Centre has extended all possible help to end the blockade — sending its leaders as well as required forces. The Centre had even arranged for tripartite talks between the Centre, state and the UNC, but the state sent no representatives for the dialogue, he added.
 
 “The Constitution says law and order is a state subject. Therefore, the Centre cannot do anything on its own in a state where there is an elected government in place,” Javadekar said. “Why should the people have to wait and suffer?” he added.
 
 A source, however, said the state government has written to the Centre, expressing its willingness to join the tripartite talks.
 
 In the meantime, National People’s Party announced it will field 37 candidates in the assembly  , of which 25 will be from the valley districts. Party leader James Sangma, who is also an MLA of Meghalaya, announced the setting up of the party’s state election management committee and manifesto drafting committee as well.
 
 
