KOLKATA: What’s so unique about the pin code 403001? It is the pin code you would use to write a letter to India’s permanent research station   in  . Now, nearly 28 years after Maitri was constructed, India is not only considering the prospect of building a new establishment in the Earth’s southernmost continent but framing laws for those staying there.

 “Maitri is getting old and we will be building a new research station in Antarctica to replace it. We also have plans to purchase a ship that will enable our research teams to travel to the continent. It may not be an ice-cutter but a vessel that can maneuver through that zone. The Ministry of Law & Justice is also in the process of framing laws for those who travel to Antarctica. Though we have completed nearly 37 years in Antarctica, we don’t have any laws there,” said Madhavan Nair Rajeevan, secretary, Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES). 
 
 By allotting Maitri a pin code, India had indicated to the world that it proposes to maintain a permanent base in Antarctica. By framing laws, India would be strengthening its foothold on the continent. While Rajeevan isn’t aware of the laws that are being framed, he indicated that these would have to be followed by all who visit the research station. This would imply going beyond the concept of a mere research station. 
 
 The MoES also has big plans for ocean research and will embark on an Rs 10,000-crore worth five-year multi-dimensional project by the end of this year. The project is awaiting a nod from the Union cabinet. According to Rajeevan, this would involve the exploration of minerals and other undersea resources. A few months ago, the MoES signed a contract with the International Seabed Authority (ISA) for the exploration of Poly-Metallic Sulphides (PMS). India has been allotted 10,000 square km along the Central Indian Ridge and   region of the Indian Ocean for this exploration.
 
 PMS, containing iron, copper, zinc, silver,   and platinum, are precipitates of hot fluids from upwelling magma from deep interiors of the ocean’s crust and are discharged through mineralized chimneys. This exploration will also enhance India’s presence in the Indian Ocean region where other players like China, South Korea and Germany are already active. India has also signed a contract for the exploration of   (PMN) in the Indian Ocean.
 
 “We have also tied up with some countries for technological know how. We shall also be strengthening our research on Tsunamis and earthquakes. We also have plans of a large desalination plant off the Chennai coast that would supply 10 million gallons of potable water per day. This project would cost nearly Rs 2,000 crore,” Rajeevan added. 
 
