NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s energy plans have not only helped   win hearts in UP, they have now found India a spot at the global energy market's high table as well— an Associate membership of Paris-based International Energy Agency.

 And true to its new-found boldness, New Delhi put its energy muscle on full display by fielding oil minister   and power, coal, renewable energy and mines minister Piyush Goyal at the joining ceremony here on Thursday.
 
 Between them, the two ministers account for administering nearly a fifth of India’s GDP and are responsible for energising a billion-plus lives through the government's flagship programmes: Ujjwala, a unique programme to provide free LPG connections to poor households, and amassive rural electrification drive to ensure power for all.
 
 India is home to about a fifth of the world's population but uses only about 6% of the world’s energy. But the government’s plans to make modern fuel and quality power accessible and affordable for the vast population, combined with the ‘Make in India’ initiative, are expected to drive India’s hunger for energy. The growth in India’s energy demand is expected to outpace China in the next few years.
 
 Rural electrification and Ujjwala played a crucial role in fuelling BJP’s rise in UP and will play an important part in stoking the country’s hunger for energy. Ujjwala has already made India the world’s second-largest LPG consumer in the domestic sector and expanded LPG coverage to 71% of population.
 
 Fielding of the two young ministers is, thus, being seen as a clear signal from the Modi government that India cannot be ignored any longer and must be heard by the global energy market as the voice of developing economies. A fact duly acknowledged by IEA executive director Fatih Birol, when he said, “We can’t talk about the future of the global energy markets without talking with India”.
 
 India has so far been a partner country. The ‘associate’ status will make India part of all meetings and dialogues, allowing an opportunity for it to shape relationships in the global energy market. China, the world's second-largest oil consumer, has been an associate member since 2015.
 
 “IEA Association will not entail any additional burden or commitment on the government or people of India. It will help India plan better and serve the needs of Indians better, ensuring energy security for days and years to come,” Goyal said.
 
 “IEA has helped in promoting understanding of India’s interests and concerns as the third-largest consumer of energy,” Pradhan said urging IEA to anchor dialogue between oil sellers and buyers for evolving a balanced market.
 
 
