HYDERABAD: The  's local branch has been flooded with hundreds of request letters from people who were out of country between November 9 and December 31 last year. The requests are for old scrapped currency notes to be accepted at the local branch and not just at the Chennai, Mumbai, Nagpur and Calcutta branches. Indians who were abroad post-demonetisation can deposit junked notes till March 31, but only at the chosen branches.

 “RBI has been facing pressure from many people who come to the branch seeking help.In the last two months, many request letters were sent. But we follow a central regime and have no say in policies. Cash deposits facility is not available at our branch here. We have forwarded requests to higher authorities,“ said an official.
 
 Having to travel to other branches is a huge hassle for most people. “When we are out of country it is tough to follow rules and regulations. It is unfair to expect us to go all the way to other cities. The people who man the help desk at the local branch used to shun me because of which I dashed off a letter to the RBI. I have old currency worth about `50,000 with me,“ said V Viresh, a businessman, who travelled to Malaysia during the time in question.
 
 Another person from the city,   wrote a letter to STOI saying, “I request the finance minister to consider authorising all RBI branches to accept these notes on submission of proof of not being in the country at that time.“
 
 People who were out of the country during the 50-day window period have demanded lifting of some conditions imposed on depositing currency . According to restrictions, people in both categories will have to physically show the demonetised notes to customs officials at the airport and get a declaration form stamped before they can deposit the currency in RBI (four chisen branches only) during the grace period.
 
 While NRIs too have been demanding that the Hyderabad branch accept deposits, they have a deadline till June 30. Speaking about the hassle to deposit old notes, Swapna S, an   from the US who recently visited Hyderabad, said, “These are very difficult rules to follow, I had cash worth around `1 lakh in my bank here.How can I show this to officials?“ There is no limit on deposit of scrapped notes, but NRIs can deposit only `25,000 as per   Management Act restrictions.
 
