She was a shy student who cried on the first day of college, because she couldn’t fit in. But after all these years,   (Miss Diva 2015-Miss Universe India) gives the credit of her success to her alma mater  . She visited the DU college on Wednesday, for its golden jubilee celebrations on the second day of Reverie, the college’s annual cultural festival. Contrary to expectations, Urvashi entered the college without any bodyguards flanking her and even had an ice cream from a roadside stall while she posed for the camera. "Ice cream toh sab hi khaate hain, chahe college mein ho ya nahin," she said to us. As she posed for us while entering the college, many gathered around to take selfies with her. 

  
  Urvashi showed off her moves on the stage and was joined by the members of Gargi’s western dance society, Enliven, that she also used to be a part of in her college days (BCCL)
 
 
 
 As she reached the jam-packed auditorium, some of her songs like Love Dose and 'Saara Zamaana Haseeno Ka Deewana' was played. And as the actress started dancing, the students happily joined her.
 
  
  College flashback: Urvashi entered the college without any starry airs and posed for us while enjoying an ice cream from a roadside stall (BCCL)
 
 
  Addressing the crowd, Urvashi said, “It feels fabulous to be here. I am so proud to be a part of this college – we all know that Gargi rocks! On my way here, I was thinking about my college experiences. I joined the college in 2011 and I still remember my first day. I cried in the girls’ washroom because I was the last student to join the batch and was trying to fit in. But I feel that Gargi has been extremely lucky for me. The moment I entered the college, I went on to win titles like Miss Asian Supermodel 2011 in   and became the Miss Tourism World in China. Gargi is the reason why this Science student was able to win all these titles. I was a bright student and was also part of the college’s western dance society, Enliven. I feel extremely fortunate to be here today as the college is turning 50.” 
 
  
  Urvashi dances with Shashi Tyagi, the former principal of the college, as  , the current principal, cheers them on (BCCL)
 
  
 After talking about her college experiences, Urvashi said, "Now it is time to get philosophical." She then gave some life gyaan to students. "I believe there is a lesson in everything that you do. The only way to be successful in what you do, is to love what you do. If you haven’t found it yet, keep looking. Don’t settle, love what you do. You can graduate and leave college, but you will have to keep experiencing life. The key to success is to be honest, follow your passion and not someone else’s path. Word hard, be kind and good things will happen for sure."
 
  
  In the spotlight: When Urvashi was on the stage, the auditorium was plunged into darkness for a few minutes, but the students in the audience switched on the flashlights of their phones to make sure that the show went on (BCCL)
 
 
 
