VISAKHAPATNAM: Non-functional machines and facilities as well as pending salaries of employees are resulting in delivery of poor services at the e-Seva and   centres by the staff. Customers complain that the commone xcuses for a service unable to be executed was server problems or that the printers are not working. 

 The city and district has around 600 e-seva, mee-seva centres, including AP online 127, CMS 325 and Ram Info 152 centres. Of these, CMS and Ram info are maintained by private agencies. According to sources, it is at the Ram info centres where problems galore. The government has been paying the money to the agency every month but the agency is not paying the employees. About 300 employees of 152 Ram Info centres have not received salaries for three months.
 
 Swiping machines and printers do not function. Customers complain that the staff are also very irritable, sources said. “I tried to swipe my debit card to pay my daughter’s fee for   at the   e-seva centre, but the machine was not working for one week,” a customer G Padmavathi said. 
 
 Another customer at China Waltair e-seva centre said the receipt printer did not have enough ink and the writing was not clear. The staff said the concerned department had not changed these machines for several years. 
 
 “How can anyone work without salary for almost three months. We too have families and daily needs. We are getting only Rs 6,000 to Rs 7,000 per month. Most of us came from   and   districts. We don’t have any properties in Vizag,” one of the employee at a   in the city said. Another employee said PoS machines and printers were not working. 
 
 The supervising authorities at the collectorate said PoS machines were not functional at only a few centres. The swiping machines at the China Waltair centre has not been functioning for the past 10 days. The amount paid at the centre is being deposited in another centre’s account. This will cause audit problems, they said. The authorities said the printers would be rectified soon.
 
 “The problem with printers will be sorted out soon. We are not getting funds from the government on time due to the e-filing system introduced by the district administration. We will clear salary dues as soon as we get the funds,” coordinator of the Ram Info K Raghu told TOI. 
 
 The problem with printers will be sorted out soon. We are not getting funds from the government on time due to the e-filing system introduced by the district administration. We will clear salary dues as soon as we get the funds
 
