PANAJI:   booked their place in the semifinal in style with a 5-1 demolition of   but there were moments when it looked like they would miss out.
 
  At the   in Bambolim on Tuesday, Mizoram needed a win, and so did Railways, to confirm the last available semifinal slot from this group, led by  . Mizoram took the lead through Lalchhuanawma Vanchhawng and it seemed like the match would go according to script, until Rajesh Soosanayakam – the leading goal scorer – equalized for Railways.
  
  At half time, with the teams tied, it could have gone either way. There was only a slight hitch; if these teams had drawn, Maharashtra – leading 2-0 against Kerala in Vasco – would have had the last laugh in the National Football Championship for the  .
  
  “The boys knew they had to raise their performance or pack bags. It wasn’t just a question of winning this game, but doing it convincingly,” said Mizoram assistant coach Anand  .
  
  Mizoram turned the match on its head in the second session with a superlative display. F   scored a brace, including the crucial second goal that gave them the lead in the 60th minute, while Lalrinchhana Rcha and Lalsangbera Sangbera helped complete the rout.
  
  Mizoram will now meet   in the first semifinal on Thursday at 3pm. Goa and Kerala will jostle each other in the second semifinal later in the day.
  
  Mizoram deserved their place among the last-four simply because they tore into their opponents with good old team work. They didn’t have the strength or height to match Railways, and every cross from the flank was easily cleared away by rival defenders. But they still found a way.
  
  For the opening goal, Vanchhawng took the rival goalkeeper by surprise with a stinging left-footer from just outside the box. When the scores were tied, Mizoram worked a perfect team goal as Lalrinpuia, Sangbera and Lalrammawia played the ball among themselves in the rival danger zone till Lalrinpuia found an opening from where he could easily beat the goalkeeper.
  
  For Mizoram’s third goal, Lalrinpuia split open the defence for Rcha to score with ease and the match was effectively over in the 78th minute when Lalrinpuia won a penalty which Sangbera converted.
  
  Lalrinpuia, quite easily the busiest player on the field, completed his brace with eight minutes left on the clock with a rasping left-footer that crashed into the far corner of the net.
  
  Poor Railways didn’t know what hit them in the second session. Striker Rajesh was the lone bright spot but their smash-and-grab approach couldn’t quite fetch them the desired result.
