NAGPUR: Irpa Usendi, cousin of south Gadchiroli’s Perimili local guerilla squad (LGS) commander Sainath, was finally made co-accused in the December 2016   arson case earlier this week by Etapalli police after his involvement behind the incident in which the   had torched around 80 vehicles at mining project site came to fore. Intriguingly, cops had intercepted new currency notes worth Rs 4 lakh from Irpa a day before his arrest on February 13. 

 After the incident last year, Irpa was quizzed by police at length but had been let off as they could not find any tangible evidence against him. With four arrested being sent to jail, the case had nearly lost steam but has been revived with the arrest of Irpa who worked as a labour contractor at the site along with another, identified as Raja Rajasthani, under contractors of  . With Irpa, the total arrests in the case is now gone up to five.
 
 Apart from Irpa’s involvement as labour contractor, cops had questioned him for alleged Naxalite links after the incident. Though Irpa had evaded arrest by claiming innocence, his role came under scanner once again on February 12 after he was nabbed while ferrying Rs 4 lakh cash at Burgi where cops and revenue department were engaged in checking for forthcoming election. Irpa claimed that the cash was paid to him by the grain traders who had purchased paddy from him. His wife too was present in the vehicle. 
 
 The following day, Irpa was declared an accused by Etapalli police in the arson case adding a twist in the investigation. Irpa, now sent to jail, had been named as one of the key conspirators. The other four arrested in the case have also been blamed for their role in extending logistics support to the Naxalites.
 
 Investigating officer Nitin Jadhav, sub-divisional police officer, Etapalli, said that   department has been alerted about the cash in possession of Irpa. “We have now found Irpa’s links with the arson case,” he said.
 
 Gadchiroli, SP, Abhinav Deshmukh said that Irpa’s role had been always under scrutiny as he kept on changing versions and claimed fresh facts every time cops wanted to quiz him.
 
