By 
 

 RBI desk accepted his deposit despite the exchange being open only to NRIs while the doctor holds an Overseas Citizen of India card.
 
 A  , who along with his wife and a relative deposited Rs 75,000 in   of Rs 500 and Rs 1000 at the   (RBI) in Mumbai on January 1, has not yet got a   and has been now told that the exchange facility was open only to non-resident Indians while he holds a  
 
 Dr Hasmukh Shah’s experience is symptomatic of the utter confusion that prevailed in the country in the aftermath of the demonetisation move announced by Prime Minister   on November 8 last year. The RBI nearly every day for the rest of the month issued notifications and chopped and changed rules, adding to the chaos.
 
 In Dr Shah’s case too the RBI’s right hand did not know what the left was up to. While an ordinance was issued on December 30 clearly stating that only NRIs would be allowed to exchange the demonetized currency notes, the RBI desk in Mumbai accepted Dr Shah, his wife Jeshwanti, and a relative’s deposits, though all of them produced their Overseas Citizens of India (OCI) cards as identification. And that is not all, the contents of the December 30 ordinance reflected on the RBI website only on February 17.
 
 The demonetisation announcement by Modi had led to long queues outside ATMs and banks across the country. With a an initial withdrawal limit of Rs 2000 per ATM transaction and Rs 24,000 per week from bank accounts, everyone who had a cash transaction to carry out was stuck.
 
 In the next 50 days, it became more than apparent that the RBI and the Central government were unprepared to handle the situation as the central bank issued as many as 53 notifications, continuously changing and tweaking rules. In the same period, the Centre also made 22 new announcements around the demonetisation exercise.
 
 Dr Shah, talking to Mumbai Mirror on Tuesday over the phone from his home in Luton, said that the government’s handling of whole process of demonetisation was shambolic right from the word go. “My question is if we were not eligible, then why did they accept the deposits from us in the first place? Why would I queue up for three hours?”
 
 Not only did the money deposited by Dr Shah, his wife and a relative not reach their accounts, they never heard from the RBI about what was causing the delay. The Shahs realised what the problem was only after their close friend Dr Paresh Kapoor, who too had deposited old currency notes during his Mumbai trip, received a mail from RBI stating that he was not eligible for this “exchange” because he was not an NRI.
 
 Dr Shah and his wife were in Mumbai for a month-long holiday and a reunion of the 1967 batch of Nair Hospital alumni.
 
 RBI spokesperson Alpana Killawala said that the December 30 ordinance clearly specifies that only Non-Resident Indians with Indian passport and who have stayed more than 180 days abroad were eligible to deposit old notes. “The ordinance clearly said OCIs and PIOs are not eligible,” she said.
 
 When asked why then Dr Shah, his wife and their relative’s deposits were accepted on January 19 despite all three of them producing their OCI cards, she said: “I will have to verify this based on the receipts and find out why this amount, if accepted, was not credited to their accounts.”
 
