KOLKATA: The fear of cancer is often so overwhelming that even youngsters with a fairly high chance of survival tend to give in to depression, say oncologists. More than 80% of those afflicted in their twenties get cured and have no realistic chance of suffering a relapse.Yet, they fear that their days are numbered. The 25-year-old woman suffering from cancer who attempted suicide on Sunday is not an exception. A fourth of cancer patients remain suicidal for the rest of their lives, say experts. Cancer, in fact, is one of the leading reasons behind suicides in the state, according to   data.

 Younger patients suffer from less virulent forms of the disease, which are less fatal.These are mostly triggered by genetic reasons, rather than due to lifestyle disorders, which are more dangerous, according to oncologist Subir Ganguly. “Germ cell cancers, like ovarian and testicular, are more common among those in their twenties. Young patients also tend to suffer from lymphoma, leukaemia, some forms of rectal cancer and, in some cases, oral cancer. But each of these are curable and rarely re cur, other than breast cancer. A majority of those afflicted in their twenties eventually lead a normal life. But depression, especially in the initial stages, is common,“ said Ganguly.
 
 Diptendra Sarkar, head of the department of breast cancer at IPGMER, agreed. “The fact that more than half the patients diagnosed early survive five years or more is often overlooked. In many cases, the fears are unfounded. Oral, cervical and breast cancer patients can get completely cured even older patients. Germ cell cancers of leukaemia are even more curable. But you can't stop patients from going into depression. It has to be countered repeatedly for the anxiety and the depression keeps coming back,“ said Sarkar.
 
 Less than 1% of Kolkata's 70,000 resident cancer patients are believed to be aged below 30 and at least 30% of breast cancer patients here fall in that group, according to oncologist Ashish Mukhopadhyay. “This group is at risk, but still have a fairly long life-span. Those in their twenties rarely get the socalled adult cancers like lung, gastro-intestinal or head and neck, but the shock sends many into depression.“
 
 There are few support groups for patients, but it is probably the below-30 ones who need counselling more than the rest, said oncologist Gautam Muhopadhyay. “We prefer to interact with their parents first. Unless the parents are convinced and believe that their children can get cured, they can't support the youngsters.The latter often go into a severe depression since they are on the cusp of their adult lives, often on the verge of a promising career. So, they need to be convinced that nothing is actually lost and they can easily bounce back,“ said Mukhopadhyay.
 
 Young cancer patients should never be allowed to sulk in isolation, pointed out Agnimita Giri Sarkar, a paediatrician who runs Disha, an organization that supports cancer patients. “They need to be treated like the rest. While the elderly can benefit by getting involved in activities and interacting with fellow survivors, those in their twenties need to get over the scare and should be motivated to stay focused on their routines,“ she said.
 
 
 
 Neelam Singh, the 25-year-old cancer patient who set herself on fire on Sunday, died in the early hours of Monday. She had told cops that she suffered from depression and was not forced by anyone to attempt suicide.
 
 Singh, who has a five-year-old son, was detected with cancer a few months back.Though her family members tried to pull her out of depression, she eventually stopped talking to them. On Sunday afternoon, she doused herself with kerosene and set herself on fire. Her husband Jagdish, who also sustained burn injuries while trying to save her, is undergoing treatment at a hospital and is critical.
 
