Even though   in Noida is home to numerous pubs, bars and restaurants that host late night parties on a regular basis, the area is often criticised for being unsafe for guests, particularly women, many of whom say they have faced harassment and molestation time and again. On  , another incident of molestation occurred at a popular club in Sector 18 at a party attended by 300 people. That the molesters were defended and aided by a Noida cop present at the scene is what sets this incident apart that took place at a pub situated inside Centre Stage Mall in Sector 18.
 
 Moti Yadav, who was part of the group, is posted in the nearby Sector 20 police station. A security staff member at the pub, who did not wish to be named, told us, "We have known Moti Yadav since he has been with the Sector 20 police station. He is often posted for security around the market and the pubs. We let everyone enter when he vouched that all of them were cops. Additionally, we thought that with five cops in the premises, guests would be much safer."
  
 It was around 1.30am that three women, who were partying in the pub, approached the bouncers complaining that a few men were misbehaving with them, and one of them tried to touch them inappropriately while on the dance floor. The bouncers, apprehensive that the alleged offenders were cops, approached the pub’s management.
 
 Gurdeep Singh, owner of the pub, says, "The bouncers came to me with three women and informed me about the issue. I walked up to the offenders, and it turned out that only one of them was actually a cop. The others were just his friends and relatives. It was one of these men who had misbehaved with the women. I told them that he would have to leave the premises. The others could stay." 
 
 This condition, however, did not sit well with Moti Yadav, who began arguing with the pub authorities. At this point, a call was made by the pub owners to Sector 20  , who reprimanded Moti Yadav on the phone and ordered him and his friends to leave the pub.
 
 
 
 The women, however, chose not to file a complaint. "We were there just to ring in the New Year. The matter was sorted within half an hour by the pub owners and security. The offenders were reprimanded by the senior officer. We didn’t feel the need to take the matter up any further and file a written complaint. Cops themselves were involved and complaining against them would have taken up a lot of our time and effort. It wasn’t worth the hassle," says one of the women. The three women – all in their mid-20s – had come to Noida to celebrate New Year from Delhi, where they work with different MNCs.
 
 
 
 Dharmendra Singh, SSP Noida, says, "Had the incident been reported to us immediately, quick action would have been taken. But it was only brought to our notice after a section of the media reported it on Monday. As soon as it was brought to our notice, action was taken against the offender, after investigation." 
 
 CCTV footage of the pub was checked, and when it confirmed Yadav’s involvement, he was suspended on Monday evening. Regarding the delay in the suspension, Singh says, "Any officer who has tried to cover up the matter or shield the offender will be asked to explain their action. There will be complete transparency in this matter."
 
 
 
 Owners say that with an already bad reputation, Noida cannot afford such incidents, least of all having cops involved in harassment. Gurdeep says, "It’s not easy for pubs in Noida to organise parties because of the city’s reputation. Girls feel that the area isn’t safe, which is why the footfall here has dwindled over the years. Now, with new malls and venues, things are looking up and with extra police presence, Noida can turn around its image of being unsafe for partygoers. But if the cops themselves will aid molesters, who will we turn to?"
 
