Bengaluru: Patting himself on the back, chief minister   on Friday released a   highlighting his government’s achievements over the past four years.

 He gave his government 90 out of 100 marks, claiming he has fulfilled 155 of the 168 promises made in the 2013 manifesto. “We are confident of achieving another 10% in the next one year,” Siddaramaiah said.
 
 The main focus of the 120-page report card tiled ‘what we promised, we delivered’ remained the CM’s bhagya schemes, particularly the flagship programme, Anna Bhagya. “We have managed to provide food security to about four crore people in just four years,” he said.
 
 Siddaramaiah painted a rosy picture of social security schemes, saying the government has secured the lives of 75 lakh destitute persons by spending Rs 12,000 crore. “Our schemes were all-inclusive as they benefited all communities and not just Ahindas, as being claimed by opposition leaders,’’ he clarified.
 
 Countering the political ‘chargesheet’ highlighting his government’s failures, which was released by the opposition BJP, Siddaramaiah said it was totally baseless and false. “The BJP has no moral right to release the chargesheet when cases against former CM B S Yeddyurappa and other leaders are pending in the Supreme Court and the Lokayukta court,” he asked.
 
 While dismissing allegations of the law and order situation in the state having deteriorated, the CM, quoting National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data, claimed the figures had declined since 2013. On the BJP’s demand to waive crop loans, Siddaramaiah said he was prepared to do so only if the Centre agreed to waive loans borrowed from nationalized banks. 
 
 In his report card, the CM also lauded the Karnataka Mobile-One app, which has brought over 4,000 services on to one integrated platform, claiming that over 25 lakh people have downloaded it so far. The app was launched in December 2014 by president Pranab Mukherjee was said to be India's first m-governance initiative before it was emulated by the Centre.
 
 
