AHMEDABAD: The   Advocate’s Association lost its case to keep the tribunal from being shifted to Kalupur from Memnagar, on Tuesday, with the   holding that the decision to shift the Railway Claims Tribunal (RCT) was reasonable, fair and done in  . 

 The Railway Claims Tribunal Advocate’s Association lost its case to keep the tribunal from being shifted to Kalupur from Memnagar, on Tuesday, with the Gujarat high court holding that the decision to shift the Railway Claims Tribunal (RCT) was reasonable, fair and done in public interest. 
 
 The Railway Claims Tribunal Advocate’s Association lost its case to keep the tribunal from being shifted to Kalupur from Memnagar, on Tuesday, with the Gujarat high court holding that the decision to shift the Railway Claims Tribunal (RCT) was reasonable, fair and done in public interest. While turning down the petition of the lawyers’ association, the high court observed that since there was no mala fide on part of the railway authorities, the HC cannot interfere in the decision to shift the location of the tribunal. The HC also lifted its stay granted earlier that had prevented immediate shifting of the RCT.The Railway Claims Tribunal Advocate’s Association lost its case to keep the tribunal from being shifted to Kalupur from Memnagar, on Tuesday, with the Gujarat high court holding that the decision to shift the Railway Claims Tribunal (RCT) was reasonable, fair and done in public interest. 
 
 Railway authorities had decided on May 4, last year, to shift the RCT to the building in Kalupur railway station, but lawyers practising there had objected to the idea and had moved the high court.
 
 The lawyers’ association had argued that since the new premises is owned by the Railways itself, which is the biggest litigant in proceedings before the RCT, it is not proper that the tribunal should run on its compound. They sought HC direction to the ministry of law & justice to provide some other suitable and convenient premises which is not owned by the Railways.
 
 It was also argued on part of the advocates that Kalupur is a congested area and operation of RCT in such area would cause unnecessary hardships. The proposed place is situated in a densely populated area with heavy traffic congestion. It is also situated next to a public urinal. The judicial members would not be having a congenial and peaceful atmosphere for smooth conduct of proceedings and it will result in great injustice to litigants at large, the petitioners had contended before the HC.
 
