BENGALURU: October 15 last year, two witnesses, who were slated to appear at a city court in connection with a 2008 murder case of an anti-liquor activist AR Babu, were allegedly threatened a week before the trial. Bengaluru   arrested two men on charges of attempting to murder the two witnesses; further investigation subsequently revealed that two other   in the case too had been threatened at an earlier stage.

 The incident, which left the city police shocked, brought into focus the lack of an effective witness protection programme (WPP) in the country. Although cops are increasingly relying on technology to solve cases, witness statements are still necessary to achieve convictions in the courts. With many cases dragging on for years, witnesses are highly vulnerable to all kinds of pressure, and the failure to ensure they are provided maximum protection often results in their turning hostile in the course of the trial. 
 
 There are provisions for witness protection in India, but they have not been standardized. Under the existing process, a witness is required to visit the local police station and seek protection. The witness will be assured of protection only after the cops have investigated the nature of the threat, and found it to be genuine. The alternative is to approach the court, which will subsequently direct the cops to provide the witness sufficient protection. 
 
 In late 2015, Delhi police came up with a draft for an effective WPP. Among the recommendations made in the draft were prohibitions on revealing, either directly or indirectly, the name, address and other particulars that might help ascertain the identity of a witness. Use of in-camera proceedings, and video-conferencing during trials were also proposed, to avoid exposing the witness. The draft also included a provision that allowed a witness to change his/her identity, and relocation of the same.
 
 Although Karnataka police welcomed the initiative taken up by the cops in the national capital, they believe that monetary concerns could to be a hurdle to implementing such a programme in the state.
 
 “There are Supreme Court guidelines on witness protection, which need to be followed. But there are no rules, as such. It is an important step. However, there are many concerns such as lack of manpower, and the cost involved in such operations, which need to be addressed,” said a senior police officer. 
 
 
