HYDERABAD: The families of four workers from the state who have gone missing in Iraq since May 14, are a worried lot. They are in the dark about their whereabouts and their fate. They suspect that they could have been arrested by the  .
“My three children and I are emotionally drained. My children are running high fever. Their health is deteriorating,“ a weeping Jakki Jamuna told TOI on the phone from Karimnagar on Saturday evening.
 
 During the day , Jamuna went to Jagitial where   Kavitha Kalvakuntla was touring, to urge her to rescue her husband Jakki Raju wherever he is in Iraq. “I could not meet her but a local leader handed over my representation to the MP,“ she said.
 
 Similar is the pathetic situation of the families of Kodi Rajaiah, Durgam Shanthiah and Pasupula Laxman.While Rajaiah's family hails from Peddapet village in Dandepally mandal in Adilabad district, the other three belong to Donthapur village of Dharmapuri mandal in Karimnagar district.
 
 The four workers had got in touch with their families on May 14, just three minutes before they were to enter the airport in Basra, Iraq, telling them that there would board a flight soon. “Since then, there has been no phone call from them. We do not know where they are,“ said   while recalling the last conversation he had with his father Laxman.
 
 For five days, the families had no clue as to what happened to them, Ravi Kumar, an engineering student, adding that someone had called to say that the four migrants had been detained at the airport and would return to India in a few days. After that there has been no word from any of the four men. In addition to the four persons, five more people from the neighbouring villages are also stuck in Iraq. All of them had been sent to Iraq by an illegal agent, Dasari Murali.
 
 Apparently, the workers had paid `1.5 lakh each to the agent as ' '. The workers had left Hyderabad on June 5, 2016. They were first taken to Dubai and from there to Iraq with the promise that they would be employed in a company. However, after landing there, they were not given any work because of which they had to work in another company which offered employment to them.
 
 On June 17, 2017, the general administration (NRI) department wrote a letter to the Indian Embassy in Baghdad, Iraq to enquire about the four persons and get them repatriated.
 
