KOLHAPUR: District and sessions judge L D Bile on Monday rejected the request made by  , an accused in the   murder case. for incense sticks and ‘gomutra’ (cow’s urine). 

 The court, however, accepted his request for a ‘jap-mal’ (beads used for religious purpose). He had written to the court asking for these products made by Sanatan Sanstha, a right wing Hindu organisation to which he belongs to, for “mental peace”. 
 
 Shivajirao Rane, the lawyer representing the Pansare family, objected to the demand stating that investigations have revealed that the products may contain tranquillising drugs. “The products should be chemically tested before giving,” he said. 
 
 The authorities of Kalamba jail, where Gaikwad is lodged, also objected to his demand stating that jail rules do not permit inmates to use products from outside. 
 
 “As per the jail manual, the inmates are supposed to use things from the canteen on the jail premises. The bottles made from glass cannot be given as it may be used to attack and injure other inmates. The copy of Sanatan Prabhat also cannot be given,” said Sharad Shelke, jail superintendent. 
 
 Based on the arguments, Bile said that jap-mal should be given only after verification and rejected the demand for cow urine and incense sticks. Samir Patwardhan, the lawyer representing Gaikwad, said that as per the court’s order, jap-mal will be given to him. 
 
 During the last hearing, the court had asked the police administration to bring Gaikwad and another accused in the case, Virendra Tawade, to court. However, owing to inadequate security at their disposal, the police could not bring both of them in court. 
 
 Rane said that since the police are now busy in the Zillah Parishad and Panchayat Samiti elections in the district, the administration does not have adequate security arrangements to bring Tawade and Gaikwad to court. 
 
 Bile suggested that the police administration tell the court in advance regarding such challenges and that the hearing will be held through video conferencing. The hearing is scheduled for February 28. 
 
 Gaikwad’s lawyer said that he is going to make an application to get an access to the bank account details and communication made through letters by Pansare for next hearing.
 
 Meanwhile, the investigation head, Suhel Sharma, tabled the report of the progress of the probe before the court in a sealed envelope. 
 
 The Bombay high court will be hearing a petition filed by the families of the rationalists —Pansare and   — on Tuesday. 
 
