AURANGABAD: A famous school in the N-4   area has received as many as 1,215 applications for 19 seats reserved under the   Act. Another   in the   got 1,205 applications for 50 seats. Strangely, as many as 51 schools have not received a single application. 

 While the lottery procedure for RTE admissions in Aurangabad district took place on Monday, the registration data for 25% reserved seats under the RTE Act raised many questions. 
 
 Educational activists said that apparently, parents are completely unaware about the concept of neighbourhood school, as popular schools are flooded with applications with no takers for major chunk of institutions.
 
 Also, several beneficiaries have made multiple applications under the online registration system for RTE admissions, possibly eyeing seats in reputed schools. Over 43,000 claims for RTE admissions were received this year even if the actual number of applicants is only 8,566.
 
 Satish Lokhande, secretary of RTE-related advocacy forum SYSYCOM, said that lack of awareness about the RTE admission system is to blame for this. "The online system will reject candidates if they violate the criteria of distance related to neighbourhood schools," he said.
 
 "Had parents been told about this in advance, they would not have made incorrect choices while filling details using the online portal," he added.
 
 Lokhande said that such online rejection by the system could harm the students' future. "The system will not apply any humanitarian consideration or approach while rejecting more than one application," he said.
 
 He blamed the zilla parishad (ZP) authorities concerned as well as the education department for not educating beneficiaries about the pros and cons of applying for school admission under the RTE Act.
 
 When contacted, R S Mogal, education officer (primary) with Aurangabad ZP said the obsession of parents for best school leads to certain nonconformities in the RTE admission process.
 
 "The online system has been designed in such a way that it leaves no scope for nonconformity," he said. 
 
 Mogal trashed the allegations that beneficiaries lacked awareness about the admission procedure under the RTE Act.
 
 Meanwhile, beneficiaries getting seats under the RTE Act will be informed about it via SMS through registered mobile number after a few days. 
 
