DARJEELING/SILIGURI:   and business establishments shut in Darjeeling town for the past 101 days are set to reopen at 9am on Sunday, signalling an end to the indefinite strike that has paralysed life in the Hills since June 15. The decision taken at a meeting of 19 business organisations in Darjeeling town on Saturday afternoon spread cheer in the town that was gasping for a breather.

 “All traders have decided to open their businesses on Sunday. We have been supporting the strike for more than three months but it has not yielded any result. The situation cannot continue in this state of limbo forever. Some shops have been doing business and people flocking to them for daily necessities. But the trading community was apprehensive of trouble. We have therefore decided that all shops will commence business at one go at 9am on Sunday so that no one is selectively targeted by those enforcing the strike,” said Khudu Tamang, president of Path Pasali Sangh, one of the largest business associations in Darjeeling. 
 
 Darjeeling Chamber of Commerce has endorsed the decision and asked its members in Kalimpong and Kurseong to also start conducting business. “We have been bleeding for months. This cannot continue indefinitely. Peace and normalcy must return to the Hills. Since politicians were not taking the lead, we decided to discuss the matter. After three hours of discussion, the decision to reopen was taken unanimously,” said Pawan Agarwal, former president of Darjeeling Chamber of Commerce.
 
 “It’s a welcome move. We wanted the Hills to be normal before Durga Puja. It seems things are going in that direction,” said Gautam Deb, state tourism minister.
 
 As news of the outcome of the meeting held at Nripendra Narayan Bengali Hall in Darjeeling town spread, animated conversations gripped street corners as people discussed the prospect of resuming normal life after 101 days of paralysis. “We haven’t been able to shop for Dussehra and Tihar. At least, we will now get to celebrate the festivals and begin life anew,” said Alka Rai, a working mother who only on Friday expressed frustration at the never-ending strike. 
 
 As the buzz spread, people talked excitedly about schools reopening after Durga Puja, tea estates beginning to function and hotels limping back to business. While groceries are expected to do good business on Sunday, others will be testing the waters and begin transactions on Monday. Though it is late in the day to salvage the Durga Puja tourist season, Pradeep  , secretary of Darjeeling Association of Travel Agents & Hoteliers is hopeful of attracting some budget tourists who are always looking for a deal. “Tourists from Kolkata usually arrive after Dussehra or Bijoya Dashami. If we can send the message that it is business as usual in Darjeeling, holidayers will begin to trickle in,” he said, adding that the resumption of train services to New Jalpaiguri couldn’t have happened at a more opportune time. 
 
 The news revived hopes of Internet connectivity making a comeback. Norbu Chhetri, president of the 11th Mile Business Association, articulated the need for the administration to lift the sanction on Internet. “Now that we are sending a feeler from our side, the state government should rise above politics and restore Internet connectivity so that ATMs start functioning and business activity can resume,” he reasoned. 
 
 What was conspicuous about people’s reaction to the traders’ decision was the lack of surprise. For many, it was only a matter of time. “Darjeeling has never witnessed a strike this long. It has been crippling. Fatigue has set in. Had traders and businessmen not taken the decision, the strike would have quietly fizzled out without an annuouncement,” felt Arun Verma, who has a jewellery shop in town.
 
 A GJM official though said the opening of shops had been engineered by police at the behest of the state government as all top GJM leaders had been forced to go underground following police action. “Police stepped up pressure on shop owners. They didn’t have much of a choice. In Chowkbazar, there are 30 plainclothes policemen who hang around. People are intimidated,” he said. 
 
 A section of locals though said it was Gurung who was intimidating people and forcing them to carry on with the strike even after it appeared directionless. “Transport services resumed between Darjeeling and Siliguri three days ago. With that, goods that had not come for months arrived. Some shops opened spontaneously and people flocked to them. People were fed up with the purposeless strike,” said a homemaker.
 
 Suresh Periwal, owner of Club Side Tours & Travels, is still somewhat apprehensive of Gurung’s men. “What if there is another audio message from Gurung? What if some men storm into shops and create trouble? It would have been better for political parties to also endorse the traders’ decision. I am treading cautiously on this,” he said.
 
 Police though have assured traders of additional vigil to prevent any miscreants from creating trouble. “GJM had claimed this was a people’s movement. It is the people who now want and end to the strike. The party should adhere to people’s wishes,” an official in the administration said.
 
