CHENNAI: After the cancellation of the  , the focus has now shifted to the   in the state.Though the   issued an ultimatum to the state election commission to hold the civic polls by May 14 or face  , sources said the state election commission has just begun the process of preparing the electoral rolls ­ the first step in the election process. The state panel will rely on the final electoral rolls released by the Election Commission of India on January 5, for the local body polls. 

 “The commission has just begun preparing the photo electoral rolls. Work is underway with the support of the National Informatics Centre (NIC) of the Centre's Information Technology department,“ an official source said. In what could be a massive exercise, the data of 5.92 crore voters will be categorised and assigned specific wards under the heads of village panchayat, town panchayat, municipalities and corporations in an exclusive software format of the NIC.
 
 SEC sources said the preparation of rolls is totally in consonance with the time line provided by the NIC. “The agency sought 95 days to complete the process and the commission is not sure if it can get it done by the May deadline,“ sources said. The district col lectors have been directed to finalise the list of polling stations that need alteration in terms of infrastructure, venue, number of voters, distance that the voters have to travel to cast their votes based on the representations made to the district administration.The process of finalisation alteration of polling stations will run simultaneously and get ready before electoral work is completed.
 
 The local bodies have not had elected councils since October, after the term of previ ous councils lapsed. The Madras high court cancelled the election scheduled in two phases on October 17 and 19, saying the poll notification was flawed and the process of delimitation and reservation had not been completed. The state appointed special officers to head the local bodies and got it extended for another six months ending June, inviting criticism from various quarters.
 
 A Narayanan of Change India, a non-government organization, who impleaded himself in a petition to conduct local body polls by April, said on account of the delay in electing representatives for the panchayats, gram sabhas at the village level could not be held to discuss local problems and finalise solutions on a priority basis.
 
 “Unprecedented water crisis is looming large in all local bodies. The elected councils are vital to ensure last mile delivery of services efficiently and this cannot be done by officials. The appointment of special officers itself is unconstitutional,“ he told TOI. There is strident criticism that special officers are allowed to handle finances for a longer duration without elected councils.
 
