NEW DELHI: An in-house committee instituted to probe allegations of misconduct against two Orissa high court judges has run into a piquant situation with a senior   judge’s name getting mired in the controversy.

 The committee, headed by Punjab and   chief justice S J Vazifdar and comprising Tripura HC chief justice T Vaiphei and Allahabad HC’s Justice Arun Tandon, was set up to inquire into allegations of corruption and other misconduct against Orissa HC’s Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Sangam Kumar Sahoo on the basis of several complaints received by the Chief Justice of India (CJI).
 
 One of the complainants, Jayanta Kumar Das, stated before the committee on May 1 that he had listed the allegations in the annexures, including those in respect of a sitting SC judge. The committee noted in its minutes, “The allegations against the sitting judge of the SC cannot be gone into by this committee as in-house procedure does not permit this committee to do so. The effect thereof on whether this committee can proceed with the inquiry against the two HC judges will be decided separately.”
 
 The committee held two more meetings — on June 1 and June 15, when it used video conferencing to question and receive the arguments of Justices Mahanty and Sahoo. The two judges had earlier told the panel that they would not come face to face with Das during the proceedings, a request which was accepted.
 
 On June 15, Justice Vazifdar wrote to   seeking clarification in the procedure to be adopted as the name of the SC judge was repeatedly cited by the complainant during the proceedings and which required the two HC judges to reply to the allegations.
 
 “The committee has sought directions from the Chief Justice of India regarding certain aspects,” a source said. The in-house inquiry committee was set up by former CJI T S Thakur on the complaint of Das, who had also complained against the SC judge before various constitutional authorities.
 
 In the minutes of the proceedings held on May 1, the committee noted, “The two Orissa HC judges requested that they be heard on the preliminary issue regarding the procedure to be adopted in the absence of the complainant.
 
 They stated that they do not wish to remain present when the complainant addressed the committee on the same. The committee accordingly heard the judges and the complainant Jayanta Kumar Das in the absence of each other.”
 
 
