MOHALI: The residents of Phase 1 in Mohali have been living under the threat of outbreak of diseases in the area as the overflowing sewers have spread stink at the locality. Area being polluted since past four years, the residents have been running from pillar to post to get their grievance redressed but to no avail.

 The residents claimed, they are the victims of apathy of the civic body and   (GMADA) as they have been passing the buck on each other. The plight of the 20-odd residents remains unheard forcing them to live under threatening conditions.
 
 The residents complained that the showroom owners have rented out the premises to hotel operators and the hotel operators have connected their sewerage discharge with the sewerage line of the residential area instead of using the pipeline laid for commercial premises opposite the showrooms. This has resulted in blockages in the sewerage lines and also reverse flow of the sewerage waters during the rains.
 
 A resident Jasbir Singh said, he has bought this property two years ago to settle his children but now is thinking to dispose it of owing to this chronic problem. He said, “We have spent our hardearned money to buy this property but due to apathy of civic bodies it has now become a waste for us. We have tried our level best to get the problem redressed but to no avail till date. We have not been able to move into this house from past two years.“
 
 The residents also alleged that GMADA additional chief administrator (ACA)   also visited the spot recently and promised immediate action. But nothing has been done so far.
 
 In 2016, GMADA had also issued notices to the showroom owners seeking explanations for not getting the showrooms converted to hotel industry since the showrooms were allotted under general category, instead of hotel industry. But, so far, no action has been taken on this too. ACA Sandeep Hans could not be reached even after repeated attempts by TOI.
 
 When contacted mayor   said, “As far as our jurisdiction is concerned, we have been cooper ating and getting the sewers cleaned on regular intervals.But the demand of the residents to shift the sewerage pipeline is not under MC purview.“
 
