KOLHAPUR: Police have agreed to boost security at the   hospital and conduct regular checks to manage crowds at the busy medical premises. 

 Following the agitation of the resident doctors demanding better security, the CPR hospital authorities decided to take the help of the police to provide additional security to the medicos in the hospital. A meeting of superintendent of police M B Tambde and dean of the CPR hospital D Ramanand was conducted on Wednesday night in which Tambde agreed to provide police for security and promised that there will be routine visit of beat marshal in the hospital to maintain check on the crowd. 
 
 Along with this, the CPR hospital administration said they are planning to increase the number of CCTVs in the hospital premises. At present, there are 19   cameras and the administration is planning to increase the number by 25.
 
 “Security of our staff is always our priority and we have already taken some steps that will ensure it. At present, there are 19 security personnel working in CPR provided by a private company,” said Ramanand.
 
 He added, “We have already demanded to the state to provide us security personnel from the government agency. Soon, a team of 150 security personnel will be guarding CPR hospital. But we have to wait for some time to get green signal from state government for this.” 
 
 “Tambde has agreed to deploy a team of policemen for the security of hospital and the presence of beat marshal at regular intervals to ensure that peace prevails in the area. He has agreed to assist us till more security guards are deployed in the hospital premises by the state government,” he said. 
 
 He added that they have also decided to set up a boom barrier at the entrance gate of the CPR hospital and will note down the number of every vehicle that enters the hospital premises. “Along with this, we will make arrangement to issue passes to the relatives of patients, who will be allowed to enter the ward. Two passes will be issued to every patient. This will help us in keeping check on the crowd,” he said.
 
 At present, a number of people park their vehicles in the CPR hospital though they visit nearby offices like tehsildar or Karveer police station. “We have decided to start Pay and Park service in the hospital premises by March-end. This will also help us in keeping a check on the flow of the crowd in the hospital premises,” he said.
 
