Mumbai: Hospital-based   face serious trouble for arm-twisting relatives of patients into donating blood during medical emergency. Nearly a decade after the National Blood Policy, the state has directed all blood banks to end the practice of asking for replacement  .

 The State Blood Transfusion Council (SBTC) on Tuesday issued a circular, asking blood banks to phase out replacement donations and collect above 90% of their stock through voluntary donors. Flouting of the norm could lead to loss of no-objection certificate, essential to keep the licence issued by the Food and Drug Administration. The blood banks have been given three months to make the switch.
 
 The circular makes it clear that the onus of arranging blood for any surgery or procedure lies solely with the  .
 
 An SBTC official told TOI that their analysis of blood collection data has shown that the percentage of voluntary blood donation in many hospital-based blood banks is less than 50%. “It indicates that they are not organizing adequate camps despite permissions being granted,” the official said. Over all there are 304 banks in the state.
 
 Maharashtra declared that only 32,684 units or 3% of the blood collected in 2016-17 was through replacement donation. Vinay Shetty of NGO Think Foundation called it an “absolute joke”. “Why do we receive so many calls from hapless people if 97% of blood donation was voluntary?”Shetty said.
 
 “In most Mumbai hospitals, a majority of blood donation is through replacement. Most big   hospitals don’t even accept blood from other banks and insist on donors,” Shetty added.
 
 Over 24.6 million units of blood was collected through replacement donors in 2016-17 in the country, showed a recent RTI filed by activist Chetan Kothari. It amounts to around 25% of the total blood collection. Experts contest the figure and peg the actual share of replacement donors at over 45% despite the National Blood Policy of 2007 mandating against any form of coercion in blood collection.
 
 A senior surgeon from a south Mumbai hospital said hospital-based blood banks simply don’t want to go through the “inconvenience” of organizing blood camps. “Even if surgeries are not kept on hold, patients and relatives are given constant reminders to donate blood,” the surgeon said. Shetty added that there have been cases where patients were not discharged till the replacement blood was provided.
 
 “Organizing a blood camp involves arranging for mobile vans, chairs, blood bags, team of technicians, social workers and doctors. Numerous pre-camp trips have to be made which they find troublesome,” said the surgeon, who consults with three leading hospitals. Asking for replacement donors is “a rule almost”, he added.
 
 Dr Shobini Rajan, assistant director general, National Aids Control Organisation (NACO), said the blood policy doesn’t say it is illegal for hospitals to ask for donors but it is undesirable. “Around 78% of the blood collected in the NACO-supported blood banks today is through voluntary donations and the number is rising. Also till very recently, 30% of the private blood banks didn’t have the permission to carry out blood donation camps. Now we have permitted them,” she said, adding that banks have been allowed to share blood units.
 
 Most blood banks think 100% voluntary donation is a distant reality. “Even today, people are scared of donating blood. All blood banks try to hold as many camps, but there is always some shortfall. Also, many of these replacement donors are actually voluntary donors. If anybody walks into a blood bank and we motivate them to donate, what’s wrong with that?” said Dr Neelam Nijhara, secretary of the Federation of Bombay Blood Banks (FBBB).
 
 Dr Zarine Bharucha of the Indian Red Cross Society said if 1% of Mumbai residents become regular voluntary blood donors, the practice of replacement donation will die a natural death. “What we need is donors who donate every three months,” she said.
 
