GURUGRAM: A 23-year-old folk artiste was shot dead after being robbed of a gold chain and three rings by three men near Rohtak, around 80km from Gurugram, on Sunday night. Police nabbed the killers in the city’s Rajendra Park area within hours, before they could dispose of the body. 

 Police said that Hisar-based Joginder, or  , was apparently kidnapped in his Swift car by the trio for money on Jind bypass near Rohtak. But when the plan did not materialise, they pumped four bullets into his body and headed towards Gurgaon in Saini’s car, hiding the body in its boot. 
 
 Working on a tip-off, a crime unit from Palam Vihar police station, led by inspector Sajjan Dalal, intercepted the car and arrested Gaurav (26) of Rohtak, Mahesh (26) of Lakadiya in Jhajjar, and Sachin (21) alias Chinnu of Madanheri in Hisar.
 
 The three, police said, are friends and Gaurav had worked with Saini on a Haryanvi album a year ago. While Sachin had criminal antecedents, police are inquiring in to Gaurav and Mahesh’s past criminal records, if any.
 
 “On Sunday morning, Gaurav had called Saini and asked to meet him in connection with a new album. But Saini was in Rohtak with his mother. So they fixed a meeting and met the artiste on Jind bypass. Saini had reached the spot in his Swift car while the trio were on a Pulsur bike. They held him hostage at gunpoint and demanded Rs 10 lakh. Saini had apparently promised to give the money on April 2. But, they shot him dead and were going to dump the body in the city — away from the crime spot to mislead police,” said Sumit Kuhar, deputy commissioner of police (crime), Gurgaon.
 
 “We are questioning them to find out if more people are involved,” the DCP said.
 
  
  
 
 
 Sources said the   could be the fallout of a personal enmity between Saini and a woman co-artiste, who was apparently in touch with the killers and could be the mastermind in this case. 
 
 Elaborating on a speedy breakthrough, another police officer said the three criminals had been under the police scanner since March 16 when a patrol party found two country-made pistols in a car at a check point near Hotel Westin at Iffco Chowk. A Fiat Linea was approaching from Crowne Plaza side when the police at the check point asked the driver to stop. The car, however, halted 15 metres before the check post and out came three men, who fled.
 
 Police then contacted the car’s owner, who claimed that Sachin had borrowed the vehicle for going to Vashno Devi temple . Police then tried to contact him on his mobile phone, but it was switched off. Subsequently, police collected his phone call details and found the numbers of some other people, who had some regular telephonic conversions with Sachin. Police tracked their calls and found that there was something fishy. They were then caught immediately.
 
 
