Mumbai: The second phase of   is set to miss its June 2017   as Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) authorities now ‘realistically’ believe that the entire 20km-long route will become operational only around October as   are yet to begin. Also,  , which is executing this project, does not have the sufficient   in its possession.

 The first phase of monorail—the 8.8km stretch between Wadala depot and Chembur—was made operational in February 2014. 
 
 “We have completed 99% of the civil work. The system will be handed over for inspection to the safety commissioner by the end of June,” said Sanjay Khandare, additional metropolitan commissioner. The civil works, including signalling system, is expected to be completed this month. “October appears to be a realistic deadline for the monorail as safety trials also take some time,” said a senior officer. 
 
 But metropolitan commissioner UPS Madan refused to set a deadline. “I will not like to set a deadline because if the safety approvals came in faster, the system can be operational before October. But in case of any glitch, it can get delayed too,” he said.
 
 Another hurdle in the project is non-availability of adequate number of rakes. MMRDA should have at least 15 rakes to ensure a smooth run when the entire corridor from Chembur to Jacob Circle becomes operational. At present, MMRDA has 10 rakes, of which only five are operational for Phase I. “We are working on getting the other five rakes fit for operations,” said Khandare. 
 
 The balance five rakes are required to ensure service at a frequency of four minutes once the entire corridor becomes operational.
 
 MMRDA initially planned to complete the trial runs by December 2016 so that the service can be commissioned on Phase II between Wadala and Jacob Circle before March 2017. But trials had to be aborted after a conductor rail dislocated on August 8 near Currey Road. A delay in delivering the balance five rakes has aggravated the problem. The rakes are to be procured by Malaysian firm Scomi Engineering, which a source claimed is unable to deliver as it is carrying out a technology upgrade.
 
 The 20km-long corridor will pass through congested areas of central Mumbai. It also have interchange facilities with suburban station on the Harbour line at Wadala, on Main line at Currey Road and Western Railway at Lower Parel. The Jacob Circle station is not very far from Mumbai Central and Mahalaxmi stations too.
 
 
