Nagpur: Five kids have brought laurels to the city by winning prizes at the 1st National Indoor   Championship held at Sonipat in Haryana from May 12 to 14.

 The kids bagged 1st prize in the rubber powered glider team category and 2nd prize in the individual foam plate glider category.
 
 Nihar Radke, Abhigyan Patel, Nishad Gedam and Sparsh Rannaware along with team leader Maheshwar Dhone took part in the national championship in which more than 250 participants from across the country took part.
 
 Aero Modelers Association (AMA) organized the championship to spread awareness about aeromodelling among youngsters and children. The main aim of the competition was to promote the positives of aviation sector and introduce the people to the concept.
 
 The championship included competitions in various categories such as balsawood chuck glider, foam plate glider, rubber powered glider, radio controlled glider, etc.
 
 In the rubber powered glider category, the kids created an aero model with sticks, plastics, rubber band and glue, which took its flight for 11 seconds, the best among all.
 
 In the individual event, Sparsh Rannaware won 2nd prize in the foam plate glider category by designing an aero model with a slice of thermocol sheet. All five kids, who are in their early teens, come from the aeromodelling academy ‘Aerovision’ and credit its founder Rajesh Joshi for their success.
 
 Interestingly, team leader Dhone created a record for a self-constructed walk along glider, which took flight for 33 minutes. AMA will send the record to Limca Book of Records soon.
 
 Dhone told TOI, “The prize has made us more responsible and determined. Our interest in aeromodelling was always questioned by society, including our parents. But the winds blew in our favour. We will work harder to break our own records.”
 
 Rannaware said, “All of us are feeling very good today, but the real journey starts now. Our main aim is to break the stereotype and promote the concept of aeromodelling. We hope that others will be inspired and the aeromodelling scenario will change.”
 
 Rajesh Joshi said, “I am so proud of my students’ achievements and invite others to explore the world of aviation, especially aeromodelling. This championship was a new experience for me too.”
 
 (Reporting by Praveen Tewari)
 
 
