THANE: The   (TMC) is working towards optimising the use of   generated at its Kopri sewage treatment plant. The civic body is planning to   it into electricity and also use the   for industrial use. The   may be the first civic body in the MMR to generate power from sewage water, said an official.

 As per plans, the sludge accumulated at the plant will be turned into gas and then electricity. This will be used to light up the facility. The corporation also plans to sell the treated water to industries. By doing this, the TMC may save Rs 15 lakh in electricity bills. This will also ensure zero wastage of resources at the sewage treatment plant. 
 
 Officials said that the   at Kopri generates 50mld of sewage daily. A biogas plant is proposed to be set up at the Kopri STP to treat the sludge. This will be separated from the sewage treated daily, which will be turned into gas and then electricity. 
 
 The electricity generated will be used to operate the STP, which will help the TMC and the firm operating the plant to save on electricity bills that is around Rs 1 cr annually.
 
 While the capacity of processing sewage at the plant is 120mld, the civic body undertakes primary and secondary treatment of 50mld sewage daily based on the requirement. The volume can be increased to generate enough power that can be passed on to the grid earning reward points for the corporation, said a TMC official. The city generates 300mld of sewage daily.
 
 Another plan is to introduce tertiary treatment of the water and sell it for industrial use. The water treated at the unit will be sold to industries, thereby reducing costs and also ensuring minimal wastage of water from the unit, said an official.
 
 Currently, the sewage water is subjected to primary and secondary treatments and then released into the creek. The contractor will subject the polluted water to the tertiary treatment so that it can be reused for non-potable purposes. 
 
 The water will be treated by the same agency that will generate electricity and will be sold to commercial and industrial establishments. About 10% of profit will be shared with the civic body, informed an official.
 
 “The STP at Kanhaiya Nagar, Kopri, is operating since 2014 under the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM). The plan is to make the sewage treatment plant self-sufficient,” said a civic official.
 
 The project received approval from the general body on Thursday, following which the TMC will start floating tenders. The project has been developed keeping in mind the city’s population till 2036. 
 
 TOI had last year pointed out how a massive volume of treated water from the Kopri STP was drained out despite its potential to be reused.
 
 
