NAGPUR: If you wish to donate in kind rather than cash but don’t have the time to buy the items you wish to donate to an NGO or an institute, here is a platform created by five engineers graduated from the   (VNIT) through which you can ensure that your money reaches the right people in the form of desired items.

 Donatekart, the website created by the VNITians, is basically a crowdsourcing e-commerce platform acting as a link between the NGOs and the donors. The NGOs are given 30-45 days’ time to run their campaign on the Donatekart website to showcase their needs (like 500 sweaters, 200 bedsheets, 300 notebooks etc) and talk about their organization and its credibility to attract donors. The donors get to know the needs of the NGOs from the website and plan accordingly to donate the items. But since donation is in kind, they donate the money to the website which in turn sources the products by reverse bidding from across the country and buy products at cheapest cost. The donations can range anything from Rs2 to Rs1 lakh.
 
 “We also faced our share of setbacks and obstacles. But we didn’t give up. Instead, we put our idea in various competitions and were selected in the UBERpitch in Mumbai. We were finalists in the IIT Kharagpur International Business Model Competition in Kolkata last week,” VNIT graduate Anil Reddy, the brain behind Donatekart, said.
 
 The platform has so far managed to help 20 organizations and collect products worth more than Rs10 lakh. 500 donors used the platform to channelize 25,000 products since the launch of the website in November 2016. Donatekart at present is operating from five cities, Nagpur, Pune, Mumbai, Hyderabad and Delhi.
 
 Sandeep Sharma, another associate of Reddy, says recently Donatekart was selected by International Startup Accelerator, Zone Startups. “It is a joint venture of Canadian University with   (BSE) institute. We are now going to work from BSE building in Mumbai for next six months. Zone Startups will help us reach out to investors and mentors for scaling up our business,” Sharma said.
 
 Reddy said the idea struck him while he was working in the Chennai flood relief activities for Goonj, a Delhi-based NGO. “It was there that I realized the mismatch between the donations that came more in the form of food and clothes whereas the flood-affected needed mosquito nets, tarpaulins, bedsheets. It was again here that I saw people buying clothes and food through Flipkart and Amazon etc and get it delivered at the site. This triggered the idea of Donatekart,” he said.
 
 Interestingly, all the associates in Donatekart have left their lucrative jobs for the purpose. “My mother has no idea of startups and hence she was dead against me even trying on the venture. But my brother convinced my mother to let me pursue my interest. We all have similar stories to share,” Reddy said.
 
 The other three team members of Donatekart are Nishant Kumar, Tejo Guna and  . They say, “Want to donate smart. Let’s Donatekart.”
 
