HYDERABAD: Bullets flew at Vikram Goud's home, but mystery shrouds the incident. To begin with, he is yet to speak to police and nobody in the house saw the assailant. 

 To ascertain facts,   DCP A Venkateswara Rao tried to speak to Vikram on Friday after doctors confirmed he was out of danger. However, Vikram did not give details. "He has not said anything," the officer said.
 
 Police said, Vikram, who is in the ICU, kept nodding to versions offered by his wife, Shipali. "I was just a minute late. The assailant had fled when I rushed to the ground floor after hearing gunshots. I saw Vikram lying in a pool of blood," Shipali told   police.
 
 Apart from Vikram, Shipali and their two children, watchman Srinivas and his wife, a driver and another teenage girl reside in the house. To shift Vikram to the car, Shipali called Srinivas and drove him to hospital with help of their driver. However, none of them saw the assailant, police said.
 
 "  cameras at the house are not working, but we analysed footage of cameras installed in the lane," the   said.
 
 CCTV revealed that Vikram moved in and out of the house several times till 2am. Police could only see two vehicles moving towards Vikram's house at around 3am when shots were fired. However, since nobody saw the assailant barring Vikram and he was not in a position to talk, police are still probing the possibility of self-inflicted injuries or a self-planned assault.
 
 "The probe is being conducted from all possible angles," said commissioner of police M Mahendar Reddy.
 
 By the time police reached the spot, the watchman had wiped out blood stains and told police that he did it unknowingly.
 
 Vikram had a licensed weapon, but his licence was revoked after he was involved in crime. "Currently, Vikram did not have a gun licence and we are yet to seize the weapon," the commissioner said.
 
 Cops confirmed Vikram was in deep debt and even sold off a house at   in Banjara Hills, nine months before moving into the present rented home. Police also reportedly found several messages in Vikram's phone where people, suspected to be financiers, were asking him to return money. "We are analysing phone data and Vikram's location throughout the day," the DCP said. "A forensic team collected gunshot residue, shells, fingerprints and other evidence from crime scene," West Zone DCP A Venkateswara Rao said.
 
